Passage 1:
Place of birth
The place of birth (POB) or birthplace is the place where a person was born. This place is often used in legal documents, together with name and date of birth, to uniquely identify a person. Practice regarding whether this place should be a country, a territory or a city/town/locality differs in different countries, but often city or territory is used for native-born citizen passports and countries for foreign-born ones.
As a general rule with respect to passports, if the place of birth is to be a country, it's determined to be the country that currently has sovereignty over the actual place of birth, regardless of when the birth actually occurred. The place of birth is not necessarily the place where the parents of the new baby live. If the baby is born in a hospital in another place, that place is the place of birth. In many countries, this also means that the government requires that the birth of the new baby is registered in the place of birth.
Some countries place less or no importance on the place of birth, instead using alternative geographical characteristics for the purpose of identity documents. For example, Sweden has used the concept of födelsehemort ("domicile of birth") since 1947. This means that the domicile of the baby's mother is the registered place of birth. The location of the maternity ward or other physical birthplace is considered unimportant.
Similarly, Switzerland uses the concept of place of origin. A child born to Swiss parents is automatically assigned the place of origin of the parent with the same last name, so the child either gets their mother's or father's place of origin. A child born to one Swiss parent and one foreign parent acquires the place of origin of their Swiss parent. In a Swiss passport and identity card, the holder's place of origin is stated, not their place of birth. In Japan, the registered domicile is a similar concept.
In some countries (primarily in the Americas), the place of birth automatically determines the nationality of the baby, a practice often referred to by the Latin phrase jus soli. Almost all countries outside the Americas instead attribute nationality based on the nationality(-ies) of the baby's parents (referred to as jus sanguinis).
There can be some confusion regarding the place of birth if the birth takes place in an unusual way: when babies are born on an airplane or at sea, difficulties can arise. The place of birth of such a person depends on the law of the countries involved, which include the nationality of the plane or ship, the nationality(-ies) of the parents and/or the location of the plane or ship (if the birth occurs in the territorial waters or airspace of a country).
Some administrative forms may request the applicant's "country of birth". It is important to determine from the requester whether the information requested refers to the applicant's "place of birth" or "nationality at birth". For example, US citizens born abroad who acquire US citizenship at the time of birth, the nationality at birth will be USA (American), while the place of birth would be the country in which the actual birth takes place.

Reference list
8 FAM 403.4 Place of Birth
Passage 2:
Motherland (disambiguation)
Motherland is the place of one's birth, the place of one's ancestors, or the place of origin of an ethnic group.
Motherland may also refer to:

Music
"Motherland" (anthem), the national anthem of Mauritius
National Song (Montserrat), also called "Motherland"
Motherland (Natalie Merchant album), 2001
Motherland (Arsonists Get All the Girls album), 2011
Motherland (Daedalus album), 2011
"Motherland" (Crystal Kay song), 2004

Film and television
Motherland (1927 film), a 1927 British silent war film
Motherland (2010 film), a 2010 documentary film
Motherland (2015 film), a 2015 Turkish drama
Motherland (2022 film), a 2022 documentary film about the Second Nagorno-Karabakh War
Motherland (TV series), a 2016 British television series
Motherland: Fort Salem, a 2020 American science fiction drama series

Other uses
Motherland Party (disambiguation), the name of several political groups
Personifications of Russia, including a list of monuments called Motherland

See also
All pages with titles containing Motherland
Mother Country (disambiguation)
Passage 3:
Dag Ole Teigen
Dag Ole Teigen (born 10 August 1982 in Volda) is a Norwegian politician for the Labour Party (AP). He represented Hordaland in the Norwegian Parliament, where he met from 2005-2009 in the place of Anne-Grete Strøm-Erichsen, who was appointed to a government position. He was elected on his own right to serve a full term from 2009-2013.
Teigen was a member of the Standing Committee on Health and Care Services from 2005-2009, and a member of the Standing Committee on Finance and Economic Affairs from 2009-2013.
He holds a master's degree in public policy and management from the University of Agder (2014), and a Bachelor of Arts from the University of Bergen (2004). He participated at The Oxford Experience in 2013.
He was elected to the municipality council of Fjell in 2003. He is a member of Mensa.

Parliamentary Committee duties
2005 - 2009 member of the Standing Committee on Health and Care Services.
2009 - 2013 member of the Standing Committee on Finance and Economic Affairs.

External links
"Dag Ole Teigen" (in Norwegian). Storting.
Passage 4:
William Herbert, 1st Earl of Pembroke (died 1469)
William Herbert, 1st Earl of Pembroke KG (c. 1423 – 27 July 1469), known as "Black William", was a Welsh nobleman, soldier, politician, and courtier.

Life
He was the son of William ap Thomas, founder of Raglan Castle, and Gwladys ferch Dafydd Gam, and grandson of Dafydd Gam, an adherent of King Henry V of England. His father had been an ally of Richard of York, and Herbert supported the Yorkist cause in the Wars of the Roses. In 1461 Herbert was rewarded by King Edward IV with the title Baron Herbert of Raglan (having assumed an English-style surname in place of the Welsh patronymic), and was invested as a Knight of the Garter.
Soon after the decisive Yorkist victory at the Battle of Towton in 1461, Herbert replaced Jasper Tudor as Earl of Pembroke which gave him control of Pembroke Castle – and with it, he gained the wardship of young Henry Tudor. However, he fell out with Lord Warwick "the Kingmaker" in 1469, when Warwick turned against the King. Herbert was denounced by Warwick and the Duke of Clarence as one of the king's "evil advisers". William and his brother Richard were executed by Warwick in Northampton, after the Battle of Edgcote, which took place in South Northamptonshire, near Banbury.Herbert was succeeded by his son, William, but the earldom was surrendered in 1479. It was later revived for a grandson, another William Herbert, the son of Black William's illegitimate son, Sir Richard Herbert of Ewyas.

Marriage and children
He married Anne Devereux, daughter of Walter Devereux, Lord Chancellor of Ireland and Elizabeth Merbury. They had at least ten children:

William Herbert, 2nd Earl of Pembroke (5 March 1451 – 16 July 1491).
Sir Walter Herbert. (c. 1452 – d. 16 September 1507) Married Lady Anne Stafford, sister to the Duke of Buckingham.
Sir George Herbert of St. Julians.
Philip Herbert of Lanyhangel.
Cecilie Herbert.
Maud Herbert. Married Henry Percy, 4th Earl of Northumberland.
Katherine Herbert. Married George Grey, 2nd Earl of Kent.
Anne Herbert. Married John Grey, 1st Baron Grey of Powis, 9th Lord of Powys (died 1497).
Isabel Herbert. Married Sir Thomas Cokesey.
Margaret Herbert. Married first Thomas Talbot, 2nd Viscount Lisle and secondly Sir Henry Bodringham.William had three illegitimate sons but the identities of their mothers are unconfirmed:

Sir Richard Herbert of Ewyas. Father of William Herbert, 1st Earl of Pembroke (10th Creation). Probably son of Maud, daughter of Adam ap Howell Graunt (Gwynn).
Sir George Herbert. The son of Frond verch Hoesgyn. Married Sybil Croft.
Sir William Herbert of Troye. Son of Frond verch Hoesgyn. Married, second, Blanche Whitney (née Milborne) see Blanche Milborne. They had two sons.

See also
The White Queen (miniseries)
Passage 5:
Angelitha Wass
Angelitha Wass (Hungarian: [ˈɒŋɡɛlitɒ ˈvɒʃʃ]; 15th century – after 1521) was a Hungarian lady's maid of Anne of Foix-Candale, Queen consort of Bohemia and Hungary, and later a mistress of Anne's son, Louis II Jagiellon, King of Hungary.

Life
She became pregnant by King Louis and gave birth to an illegitimate son, János (John) Wass, self-titled "Prince John". John was never officially recognized as the son of the king. His and his mother's names appear in the sources of the Chamber in Pozsony (now Bratislava) as either János Wass or János Lanthos, which could refer to the fact that he used his mother's name first, then that of his occupation (lantos means 'lutanist, bard').
Angelitha Wass married a Hungarian nobleman but did not have any further issue. She died as a widow.
Passage 6:
Anne Devereux
Anne Devereux, Countess of Pembroke (c. 1430 – after 25 June 1486), was an English noblewoman, who was Countess of Pembroke during the 15th century by virtue of marriage to William Herbert, 1st Earl of Pembroke.
She was born in Bodenham, the daughter of Sir Walter Devereux, the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, and his wife Elizabeth Merbury. Anne's grandfather, Walter, was the son of Agnes Crophull. By Crophull's second marriage to Sir John Parr, Anne was a cousin to the Parr family which included Sir Thomas Parr; father of King Henry VIII's last queen consort, Catherine Parr.

Marriage
About 1445, Anne married William Herbert, 1st Earl of Pembroke, in Herefordshire, England. He was the second son of Sir William ap Thomas of Raglan, a member of the Welsh Gentry Family, and his second wife Gwladys ferch Dafydd Gam.William Herbert was a very ambitious man. During the War of the Roses, Wales heavily supported the Lancastrian cause. Jasper Tudor, 1st Earl of Pembroke and other Lancastrians remained in control of fortresses at Pembroke, Harlech, Carreg Cennen, and Denbigh. 
On 8 May 1461, as a loyal supporter of King Edward IV, Herbert was appointed Life Chamberlain of South Wales and steward of Carmarthenshire and Cardiganshire. King Edward's appointment signaled his intention to replace Jasper Tudor with Herbert, who thus would become the premier nobleman in Wales. Herbert was created Lord Herbert on 26 July 1461. Herbert was then ordered to seize the county and title of Earl of Pembroke from Jasper Tudor. By the end of August, Herbert had taken back control of Wales with the well fortified Pembroke Castle capitulating on 30 September 1461. 
With this victory for the House of York came the inmate at Pembroke; the five-year-old nephew of Jasper Tudor, Henry, Earl of Richmond. Determined to enhance his power and arrange good marriages for his daughters, in March 1462 he paid 1,000 for the wardship of Henry Tudor. Herbert planned a marriage between Tudor and his eldest daughter, Maud. At the same time, Herbert secured the young Henry Percy who had just inherited the title of Earl of Northumberland. 
Herbert's court at Raglan Castle was where young Henry Tudor would spend his childhood, under the supervision of Herbert's wife, Anne Devereux, who ensured that young Henry was well cared for.

Issue
The Earl and Countess of Pembroke had three sons and seven daughters:
Sir William Herbert, 2nd Earl of Pembroke, Earl of Huntingdon, married firstly to Mary Woodville; daughter of Richard Woodville, 1st Earl Rivers and thus sister to King Edward IV's queen consort Elizabeth Woodville. He married secondly to Lady Katherine Plantagenet, the illegitimate daughter of King Richard III.
Sir Walter Herbert, husband of Lady Anne Stafford
Sir George Herbert
Lady Maud Herbert, wife of Sir Henry Percy, 4th Earl of Northumberland, 7th Lord Percy.
Lady Katherine Herbert, wife of Sir George Grey, 2nd Earl of Kent.
Lady Anne Herbert, wife of Sir John Grey, 1st Baron Grey of Powis.
Lady Margaret Herbert, wife of Sir Thomas Talbot, 2nd Viscount Lisle, and of Sir Walter Bodrugan.
Lady Cecily Herbert, wife of John Greystoke.
Lady Elizabeth Herbert, wife of Sir Thomas Cokesey.
Lady Crisli Herbert, wife of Mr. Cornwall.The Earl of Pembroke also fathered several children by various mistresses.
Passage 7:
Anne Devereux-Mills
Anne Devereux-Mills (born March 2, 1962) is an American businesswoman, author, public speaker and entrepreneur. Anne Devereux-Mills spent the first 25 years of her career building and leading advertising agencies in New York City. She is now co-host of the Bring a Friend podcast and the Chief Instigator (and Founder) of Parlay House, a 7000+ member organization in 12 cities worldwide that champions and inspires women to connect and make meaningful change for themselves and for others.

Early life
Anne Devereux-Mills was born in Seattle, Washington, the daughter of Gene Bruce Brandzel and Elizabeth Ettenheim Brandzel and sister to Rachel Brandzel Weil and Susan Brandzel. She attended John Muir Elementary School, Eckstein Middle School and the Lakeside School. Devereux-Mills left Seattle in 1980 to attend Wellesley College in Wellesley, Massachusetts where she became President of the Senior Class and an active member of College Government.

Career
Devereux-Mills began her career in the Political Risk Department of Marsh and McLennan in New York City, but after just a few years, realized that her strengths lay elsewhere. Parlaying her skills in communications and client management through a series of career experiments, she found herself in the field of advertising where she specialized in healthcare. Once landing in a field that combined her strengths and her passions, she quickly climbed the corporate ladder, helping found the first Direct-to-consumer advertising agency for healthcare brands, called Consumer Healthworks, part of WPP. A few years later, she moved to Omnicom Group, building a direct to consumer practice for Harrison and Star where she went on to become president, then to Merkley and Partners where she was CEO of the Healthcare Division. From Merkley, she moved to BBDO where she was CEO of BBDO World Health as well as managing director and Chief Integration Officer. She then transitioned to TBWA\Chiat\Day as CEO of the global healthcare practice as well as chairman and CEO of LLNS.Devereux-Mills left the field of advertising in 2009. Hit with the triple threat of progressing cancer, opting to have cancer surgery, Devereux-Mills moved to San Francisco where she founded Parlay House, a salon-style gathering for women that now has a national presence and thousands of members who come together to connect about what they care about rather than what they "do". She is an active mentor of the SHE-CAN organization which takes high-performing women from post-genocide countries and helps them gain an American education so that they can then return to their countries and become the next generation of leaders. Devereux-Mills was one of the first supporting members of the iHUG Foundation which helps break the cycle of poverty for children in Kabalagala, Uganda by augmenting education with nutrition, healthcare and support services.
Until her retirement in April 2019, Devereux-Mills was one of a handful of women to serve as chairman of the board of a public company in her role at Marchex in Seattle, Washington. Devereux-Mills first served as a director on the Marchex board beginning in 2006, and was appointed Chairman in October 2016. Marchex is a leader in mobile marketing and call analytics. She was also on the Board of Lantern, a company that brought Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) to people through mobile technology, thereby expanded access to clinical help and reduced the cost of care. Combining her career success, her interest in creating opportunities to connect and empower women as well as her natural leadership skills, Devereux-Mills is now a public speaker, who is focusing on issues of female empowerment, reframing reciprocity, and creating a new version of feminism that can address the issues so prevalent in our society.

Book: The Parlay Effect
In The Parlay Effect: The Transformative Power of Female Connection, Anne Devereux-Mills uses her insights as Founder of Parlay House to show how small actions can result in a meaningful boost in self-awareness, confidence and vision. Through a combination of scientific research and personal stories, The Parlay Effect offers a blueprint for anyone who is going through a life transition who wants to find and create communities that have a positive and multiplying effect in their impact.

Honours and awards
Working Mother of the Year from the She Runs It, (formerly Advertising Women of New York)
Leading Women in Technology from the All-Stars Foundation
Activist of the Year from Project Kesher
The Return, her documentary received a 2017 Emmy- nomination

Recorded talks
The Guild: Reframing Reciprocity, 2017
Watermark: Doing Well By Doing Good, 2016
The Battery: Small Actions Have Ripple Effects in Social Justice Reform, 2016
SHE-CAN: Pulling Women Forward SHE-CAN: Revolution 2.0, 2015
Passage 8:
Where Was I
"Where Was I?" may refer to:

Books
"Where Was I?", essay by David Hawley Sanford from The Mind's I
Where Was I?, book by John Haycraft 2006
Where was I?!, book by Terry Wogan 2009

Film and TV
Where Was I? (film), 1925 film directed by William A. Seiter. With Reginald Denny, Marian Nixon, Pauline Garon, Lee Moran.
Where Was I? (2001 film), biography about songwriter Tim Rose
Where Was I? (TV series) 1952–1953 Quiz show with the panelists attempting to guess a location by looking at photos
"Where Was I?" episode of Shoestring (TV series) 1980

Music
"Where was I", song by W. Franke Harling and Al Dubin performed by Ruby Newman and His Orchestra  with vocal chorus by  Larry Taylor and Peggy McCall  1939
"Where Was I", single from Charley Pride discography 1988
"Where Was I" (song), a 1994 song by Ricky Van Shelton
"Where Was I (Donde Estuve Yo)", song by Joe Pass from Simplicity (Joe Pass album)
"Where Was I?", song by Guttermouth from The Album Formerly Known as a Full Length LP (Guttermouth album)
"Where Was I", song by Sawyer Brown (Billy Maddox, Paul Thorn, Anne Graham) from Can You Hear Me Now 2002
"Where Was I?", song  by  Kenny Wayne Shepherd from Live On  1999
"Where Was I", song by Melanie Laine (Victoria Banks, Steve Fox) from Time Flies (Melanie Laine album)
"Where Was I", song by Rosie Thomas from With Love (Rosie Thomas album)
Passage 9:
Anne Devereux-Mills
Anne Devereux-Mills (born March 2, 1962) is an American businesswoman, author, public speaker and entrepreneur. Anne Devereux-Mills spent the first 25 years of her career building and leading advertising agencies in New York City. She is now co-host of the Bring a Friend podcast and the Chief Instigator (and Founder) of Parlay House, a 7000+ member organization in 12 cities worldwide that champions and inspires women to connect and make meaningful change for themselves and for others.

Early life
Anne Devereux-Mills was born in Seattle, Washington, the daughter of Gene Bruce Brandzel and Elizabeth Ettenheim Brandzel and sister to Rachel Brandzel Weil and Susan Brandzel. She attended John Muir Elementary School, Eckstein Middle School and the Lakeside School. Devereux-Mills left Seattle in 1980 to attend Wellesley College in Wellesley, Massachusetts where she became President of the Senior Class and an active member of College Government.

Career
Devereux-Mills began her career in the Political Risk Department of Marsh and McLennan in New York City, but after just a few years, realized that her strengths lay elsewhere. Parlaying her skills in communications and client management through a series of career experiments, she found herself in the field of advertising where she specialized in healthcare. Once landing in a field that combined her strengths and her passions, she quickly climbed the corporate ladder, helping found the first Direct-to-consumer advertising agency for healthcare brands, called Consumer Healthworks, part of WPP. A few years later, she moved to Omnicom Group, building a direct to consumer practice for Harrison and Star where she went on to become president, then to Merkley and Partners where she was CEO of the Healthcare Division. From Merkley, she moved to BBDO where she was CEO of BBDO World Health as well as managing director and Chief Integration Officer. She then transitioned to TBWA\Chiat\Day as CEO of the global healthcare practice as well as chairman and CEO of LLNS.Devereux-Mills left the field of advertising in 2009. Hit with the triple threat of progressing cancer, opting to have cancer surgery, Devereux-Mills moved to San Francisco where she founded Parlay House, a salon-style gathering for women that now has a national presence and thousands of members who come together to connect about what they care about rather than what they "do". She is an active mentor of the SHE-CAN organization which takes high-performing women from post-genocide countries and helps them gain an American education so that they can then return to their countries and become the next generation of leaders. Devereux-Mills was one of the first supporting members of the iHUG Foundation which helps break the cycle of poverty for children in Kabalagala, Uganda by augmenting education with nutrition, healthcare and support services.
Until her retirement in April 2019, Devereux-Mills was one of a handful of women to serve as chairman of the board of a public company in her role at Marchex in Seattle, Washington. Devereux-Mills first served as a director on the Marchex board beginning in 2006, and was appointed Chairman in October 2016. Marchex is a leader in mobile marketing and call analytics. She was also on the Board of Lantern, a company that brought Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) to people through mobile technology, thereby expanded access to clinical help and reduced the cost of care. Combining her career success, her interest in creating opportunities to connect and empower women as well as her natural leadership skills, Devereux-Mills is now a public speaker, who is focusing on issues of female empowerment, reframing reciprocity, and creating a new version of feminism that can address the issues so prevalent in our society.

Book: The Parlay Effect
In The Parlay Effect: The Transformative Power of Female Connection, Anne Devereux-Mills uses her insights as Founder of Parlay House to show how small actions can result in a meaningful boost in self-awareness, confidence and vision. Through a combination of scientific research and personal stories, The Parlay Effect offers a blueprint for anyone who is going through a life transition who wants to find and create communities that have a positive and multiplying effect in their impact.

Honours and awards
Working Mother of the Year from the She Runs It, (formerly Advertising Women of New York)
Leading Women in Technology from the All-Stars Foundation
Activist of the Year from Project Kesher
The Return, her documentary received a 2017 Emmy- nomination

Recorded talks
The Guild: Reframing Reciprocity, 2017
Watermark: Doing Well By Doing Good, 2016
The Battery: Small Actions Have Ripple Effects in Social Justice Reform, 2016
SHE-CAN: Pulling Women Forward SHE-CAN: Revolution 2.0, 2015
Passage 10:
Beaulieu-sur-Loire
Beaulieu-sur-Loire (French pronunciation: ​[boljø syʁ lwaʁ], literally Beaulieu on Loire) is a commune in the Loiret department in north-central France. It is the place of death of Jacques MacDonald, a French general who served in the Napoleonic Wars.

Population
See also
Communes of the Loiret department