Passage 1:
Traces of Smoke
Traces of Smoke or  Rooksporen  is a 1992 Dutch drama film directed by Frans van de Staak.

Cast
Marlies Heuer	... 	De vrouw
Peter Blok	... 	De vragensteller
Joop Admiraal
Rein Bloem
Sacha Bulthuis
Carine Crutzen
Hildegard Draayer
René Eljon
Andrea den Haring
Hans Hausdörfer
Thom Hoffman
Ineke Holzhaus
Ingrid Kuipers
Willem Kwakkelstein
Johan Leysen
Colla Marsman
Tessa du Mee
Wim Meuwissen
Titus Muizelaar
Frieda Pittoors
Lineke Rijxman
Hanneke Stark
Catherine ten Bruggencate
Huub van der Lubbe
Manouk van der Meulen
Anke Van't Hof
Hilt de Vos
Nico de Vries

External links
Rooksporen at IMDb
Passage 2:
Contragolpe
Contragolpe is a 1979 Argentine drama film directed by Alejandro Doria.

Cast
Marcelo Alfaro	... 	Gigolo 1
Enrique Alonso
Alberto Argibay
Raúl Aubel
Aldo Barbero
Sergio Bellotti
Héctor Bidonde
Luisina Brando
Rodolfo Brindisi
Cecilia Cenci
Marta Cerain
Martín Coria	... 	Detenido
Lito Cruz	... 	Juan de Dios Tolosa / Carmelo Di Prisco
Felice D'Amore
Héctor da Rosa
Ricardo Fassan
Ana María Giunta
Adela Gleijer
Jorge Marrale
Daniel Miglioranza
Gloria Necon
Julio Pelieri
Ignacio Quirós
Gigi Rua
Tina Serrano
Juan Manuel Tenuta
Osvaldo Terranova
Beatriz Thibaudin

External links
Contragolpe at IMDb
Passage 3:
Zeng Chao
Zeng Chao (Chinese: 曾超; pinyin: Zēng Chāo; Mandarin pronunciation: [tsə́ŋ.ʈʂʰáʊ]; born 23 January 1993) is a Chinese footballer who currently plays for Guangzhou R&F in the Chinese Super League.

Club career
Zeng Chao started his football career when he joined Shandong Luneng's youth academy with Liu Binbin in 2005. He played for China League Two side Shandong Youth in 2011 and 2012. Failing to promote to the first team, Zeng transferred to Chinese Super League side Guangzhou R&F in 2014. He was loaned to China League One side Guangdong Sunray Cave for half season in July 2014. He played 14 matches and scored 2 goals in the 2014 season as Guangdong Sunray Cave avoided to relegate to the third tier. 
Zeng was promoted to Guangzhou R&F's first team squad in July 2015. He made his Super League debut on 23 April 2016 against Jiangsu Suning, coming on for Tang Miao in the 80th minute. He scored his Super League goal two minutes after the substitution, which ensured Guangzhou R&F tied with Jiangsu Suning 1–1. He scored three goals in 22 league appearances in the 2016 season and extended his contract with the club for five years on 7 November 2016.Zeng transferred to his hometown club Meizhou Meixian Techand who newly promoted to China League One on 1 January 2018. On 10 March 2018, he made his debut for the club in the season's opener against Yanbian Funde. On 7 November 2018, he scored his first goal in a 1–1 away draw against Shaanxi Chang'an Athletic in the first leg of 2018 China League One Relegation play-offs.

Career statistics
As of 31 December 2020.
Passage 4:
Alexis Ramos
Alexis Ramos (born 13 April 1989) is an Argentine footballer.

Club career
Born in San Carlos de Bolívar, Ramos began playing football in the youth system of local side Aldosivi. He played with the club's senior side for one and one-half seasons before embarking on an extended spell in the Argentine regional leagues with Concepción Fútbol Club, Ferro Carril Oeste de General Pico, Gimnasia y Esgrima de Concepción del Uruguay, Estudiantes de Río Cuarto, Independiente de Chivilcoy, General Paz Juniors and Huracán de Goya.After a spell playing for A.D. Isidro Metapán in El Salvador, Ramos played for El Tanque Sisley in the 2017 Uruguayan Primera División. After El Tanque Sisley withdrew from the 2018 league, he joined Venezuelan Primera División side Metropolitanos F.C.Alexis Ramos made his debut in Cambodia League in 2019 For Angkor Tiger.
Passage 5:
Ben Palmer
Ben Palmer (born 1976) is a British film and television director.
His television credits include the Channel 4 sketch show Bo' Selecta! (2002–2006), the second and third series of the E4 sitcom The Inbetweeners (2009–2010) and the Sky Atlantic comedy-drama Breeders (2020). Palmer has also directed films such as the Inbetweeners spin-off, The Inbetweeners Movie (2011) and the romantic comedy Man Up (2015).

Biography
Palmer was born and raised in Penny Bridge, Barrow-in-Furness. He attended Chetwynde School.His first directing job was the Channel 4 sketch show Bo' Selecta!, which he co-developed with its main star, Leigh Francis. Palmer directed the second and third series of the E4 sitcom The Inbetweeners in 2009 and 2010, respectively.

Filmography
Bo' Selecta! (2002–06)
Comedy Lab (2004–2010)
Bo! in the USA (2006)
The Inbetweeners (2009–2010)
The Inbetweeners Movie (2011)
Comedy Showcase (2012)
Milton Jones's House of Rooms (2012)
Them from That Thing (2012)
Bad Sugar (2012)
Chickens (2013)
London Irish (2013)
Man Up (2015)
SunTrap (2015)
BBC Comedy Feeds (2016)
Nigel Farage Gets His Life Back (2016)
Back (2017)
Comedy Playhouse (2017)
Urban Myths (2017–19)
Click & Collect (2018)
Semi-Detached (2019)
Breeders (2020)
Passage 6:
Alejandro Doria
Alejandro Doria (November 1, 1936 – June 17, 2009) was a noted Argentine cinema and television director.

Life and work
Born in Buenos Aires in 1936, he first worked for Argentine television in 1965 as a writer for a local variety show, Show rambler.
He first directed professionally for Adorable Professor Aldao, a 1968 romantic comedy series. 
Doria's contract to direct the 1969 season of a top-rated sitcom, Nuestra galleguita (Our Galician Girl), secured his career in Argentine /television, and he directed numerous series during the early 1970s and was a guest producer several times for Alta Comedia, a comedy showcase.Doria first directed for the cinema in 1974. The political satire by José Dominiani, Proceso a la infamia (Infamy on Trial), ran afoul of the newly appointed National Film Rater, Miguel Paulino Tato, however. Unable to work professionally for four years, Doria obtained his film's release in 1978, though the new, heavily edited version was panned by its audiences and director, alike. In demand following his long absence, Doria directed two thrillers in 1979: a film adaptation of Marco Denevi's Contragolpe (Retribution), and of Aída Bortnik's La isla. Collaborating with Bortnik on La isla's screenplay, the psychological thriller earned Doria a special mention at the Montreal World Film Festival. He wrote and directed one of the few well-known horror titles in Argentine film, Los miedos (Fears), in 1980, and in 1982, directed a film adaptation of Silvina Bullrich's best-selling Los Pasajeros del jardín (Wanderers in the Garden) - Bullrich's nostalgic, autobiographical look at her happy and all-too-brief second marriage.The return of democracy in Argentina in 1983 was accompanied by a revival in local film and theatre production. Doria and Uruguayan screenwriter Jacobo Langsner wrote a script based on a concept created by another Uruguayan artist, veteran leading lady China Zorrilla. Their drama, Darse cuenta (Realization), was a critical and commercial success in 1984.Doria and Langsner were then reunited for the making of Esperando la carroza (Waiting for the Hearse). The 1985 black comedy looked at a typical Argentine family and their struggles with each other and their mischievous, nonagenarian matriarch. The film became a cult classic, though another director's sequel written by Langsner and released in 2009 was unsuccessful.Doria and Langsner then turned to recent history in Argentina with Sofia. The 1987 tragedy dealt with a chance encounter and a May–December love affair amid the oppressive Dirty War against dissidents. The harrowing portrayal, however, received little notice. Doria returned to the family comedy genre in 1990 with Cien veces no debo (I Don't Owe 100 Times Over) - a comedy of errors revolving around bad news for a neurotic, middle-class family. Doria then returned to television, directing a number of soap operas and a segment in an episodic homage to the victims of the 1994 AMIA bombing (the worst terrorist attack in Argentine history).
His reputation as a leading filmmaker in Argentine cinema was restored with the 2006 release of Las manos (The Hands) a bio-pic on the life of Father Mario Pantaleo, an Argentine priest who incurred the Vatican's wrath following reports he possessed healing hands. The drama earned numerous prizes in Argentina and in prestigious international film festivals, notably the Huelva Latin American Film Festival and Cartagena Film Festival. Doria more recently directed Doce horas (12 Hours) and Tuya (Yours), titles scheduled for release in 2010. Pneumonia cost the filmmaker his life on June 17, 2009, however, at age 72.

Filmography
Proceso a la infamia - 1974
Contragolpe - 1979
The Island (La Isla) - 1979
Fears (Los Miedos) - 1980
Los Pasajeros del jardín - 1982
State of Reality (Darse cuenta) - 1984
Waiting for the Hearse (Esperando la carroza) - 1985
Sofía - 1987
I Don't Owe 100 Times (Cien veces no debo) - 1990
18-J - 2004
The Hands (Las manos) - 2006
Passage 7:
Tiger in the Smoke
Tiger in the Smoke is a 1956 British crime film directed by Roy Ward Baker (billed as Roy Baker) and starring Donald Sinden, Muriel Pavlow, Tony Wright, Bernard Miles and Christopher Rhodes. It is based on the 1952 novel The Tiger in the Smoke by Margery Allingham, although the film omits the principal character of Albert Campion. The film is set in a noirish smog-shrouded London and briefly in Brittany, France, and combines the genres of mystery, thriller, crime and drama. The cinematography was by Geoffrey Unsworth.Except for the omission of Campion, the film follows the plot of the book very closely. It was shot at Pinewood Studios with sets designed by the art director Jack Maxsted.

Plot
Having been sent a picture of her husband, a war hero reported missing in action in France, Meg Elgin, now engaged to her fiancé Geoffrey Leavitt, is led to believe he is still alive and arranges a meeting at a London railway station. When she arrives there with the police accompanying her, she catches sight of a man in the distance wearing an old coat of her husband's. When he is pursued and captured, he turns out to be Duds Morrison, a former soldier and out-of-work actor recently let out of prison. He refuses to tell them anything, and having nothing they can charge him with, the police release him.
His interest aroused by the pictures sent to Meg, Leavitt follows Morrison and tries to question him about his sudden appearance masquerading as Meg’s dead husband. Morrison again refuses to talk, and tries to flee from Leavitt into an alley, but he is set upon by a group of street musicians who beat him to death, and also take Leavitt as a prisoner.
The musicians are ex-commandos and former comrades of Morrison, with whom they had served on a raid in Brittany in the war. The commander of the raid had been Meg's husband, Major Elgin. The men had been led to believe that Elgin knew about secreted treasure in a house in Brittany which he owned before the war, and they are desperate to get their hands on it. They want to find their former sergeant, named Jack Havoc, who has recently escaped from prison, committed several murders, and who they believe knows where the treasure is. They had attacked Morrison because they suspected he was an accomplice of Havoc, and then captured Leavitt believing he was Havoc.
Still wearing their old uniforms, they have spent the past few years carving out a living as street musicians, begging from passers by. Realising that releasing Leavitt might open them to being charged for the murder of Morrison, they bind him up and keep him as a prisoner. He is rescued later by a beat constable, sent by the CID to investigate the squat while the musicians are out. 
Leavitt returns to Meg and together they head to Brittany to find the treasure, having learned of its location from a message left by Major Elgin. Havoc, having united with his former comrades and also learned of the treasure's location, also travels to France, where he angrily discovers that when Major Elgin had spoken of his ‘priceless’ treasure, he had been referring to its artistic beauty rather than its monetary worth: it is a small statue of the Madonna. He is apprehended in a confrontation on the nearby cliffs with Leavitt and the French police.

Cast
Production
Roy Ward Baker was offered the job of directing by producer Leslie Parkin, who worked with him on Morning Departure. Marjorie Allingham was one of Baker's favourite authors. As screenwriter Änthony Pelissier was also writing a television special,  Baker helped write the script. He later said Allingham "was a very bizarre writer. Her books appear to be very realistic and straightforward detective stories, thrillers and suspense. But she's not like Dorothy Sayers, she's right off on her own and there's a sort of bizarreness which is very difficult to catch. I didn't get it. I think I got some of it occasionally where a number of the character were just plain daft."Baker felt the film "was a failure." He felt "One of the problems with the picture is that the central character doesn't appear until at least a third of the way through. It should be a man with an overwhelming personality, not macho but real strength, real evil and he is a determined villain."Baker felt this role should have been played by someone like Jack Hawkins or Stanley Baker but John Davis insisted they use Tony Wright. He elaborated

Sometimes people get picked up for a part, a star part, in a good movie, and they’re just not right for it, and they can’t do it, and it ruins them for the rest of their lives. It blows it completely for them. Tony Wright did do, in fact, a lot of work after that, but he never really caught on as a major personality...It’s too bad, and it wrecked the film, and it wrecked this poor man’s career.

Reception
Variety called it "An intriguing, nearly plausible  Screenplay has been made... With a sterling cast, and not over complicated plot, the result is good 
general entertainment....  Tony Wright is making his mark in the cold killer type of roles and this  one fits him like a glove."Baker said "it was an unsuccessful picture but it really was quite an important picture in my own development" as "it did me a lot of good in the studio.... even during the making it did attract quite a lot of attention and publicity so it was more important than you would think given it was not a successful film. But there were a lot of things in it which were well done and well brought off."
Passage 8:
Li Jianhua (footballer)
Li Jianhua (Chinese: 李健华; pinyin: Lǐ Jiànhuá; Jyutping: Lei5 Gin6waa4) is a retired Chinese footballer who last played as a defender for Guangdong South China Tiger in the China League One.

Club career
He started his career in the 2002 season, quickly establishing himself with 21 appearances and scoring 1 goal in his debut season. Becoming a regular with the Shenzhen Shangqingyin team his highest achievement came in the 2004 Chinese Super League season when Shenzhen won the title, he continued to remain with the team for several further seasons despite them unable to build on their achievements, even flirting with relegation in the 2007 China Super League season. In the beginning of the 2009 season, he transferred to Guangzhou Pharmaceutical F.C., which was later named Guangzhou Evergrande.
Along with his teammates Jiang Ning and Wu Pingfeng, Li transferred to Guangzhou Evergrande's opponent Guangzhou R&F in January 2013. He left Guangzhou R&F at the end of 2015 and played for amateur team Shenzhen Baoxin in 2016. On 9 November 2016, Li was signed by his hometown club Meixian Hakka in the China League Two.

International career
Li Jianhua would make his debut against Mexico on 16 April 2008, coming on as a substitute in a 1-0 friendly loss. He would make another substitute appearance for China against El Salvador for another friendly on 23 April 2008, which ended in a 2-2 draw.

Career statistics
Statistics accurate as of match played 3 November 2018.

Honours
Club
Shenzhen Jianlibao

Chinese Super League:  2004Guangzhou Evergrande

Chinese Super League: 2011, 2012
China League One:  2010
Chinese FA Cup: 2012
Chinese FA Super Cup: 2012
Passage 9:
Abhishek Saxena
Abhishek Saxena is an Indian Bollywood and Punjabi film director who directed the movie Phullu. The Phullu movie was released in theaters on 16 June 2017, in which film Sharib Hashmi is the lead role. Apart from these, he has also directed Patiala Dreamz, this is a Punjabi film. This film was screened in cinemas in 2014.

Life and background
Abhishek Saxena was born on 19 September 1988 in the capital of India, Delhi, whose father's name is Mukesh Kumar Saxena. Abhishek Saxena married Ambica Sharma Saxena on 18 December 2014. His mother's name is Gurpreet Kaur Saxena.
Saxena started his career with a Punjabi film Patiala Dreamz, after which he has also directed a Hindi film Phullu, which has appeared in Indian cinemas on 16 June 2017.

Career
Abhishek Saxena made his film debut in 2011 as an assistant director on Doordarshan with Ashok Gaikwad. He made his first directed film Patiala Dreamz, this is a Punjabi movie.After this, he has also directed a Hindi film Phullu in 2017, which has been screened in cinemas on 16 June 2017. Saxena is now making his upcoming movie "India Gate".
In 2018 Abhishek Saxena has come up with topic of body-shaming in his upcoming movie Saroj ka Rishta.
 Where Sanah Kapoor will play the role of Saroj and actors Randeep Rai and Gaurav Pandey will play the two men in Saroj's life.Yeh Un Dinon ki Baat Hai lead Randeep Rai will make his Bollywood debut. Talking about the film, director Abhishek Saxena told Mumbai Mirror, "As a fat person, I have noticed that body-shaming doesn’t happen only with those who are on the heavier side, but also with thin people. The idea germinated from there."
Career as an Assistant DirectorApart from this, he has played the role of assistant director in many films and serials in the beginning of his career, in which he has a television serial in 2011, Doordarshan, as well as in 2011, he also assisted in a serial of Star Plus.
In addition to these serials, he played the role of assistant director in the movie "Girgit" which was made in Telugu language.

Filmography
As Director
Passage 10:
Roy Ward Baker
Roy Ward Baker (born Roy Horace Baker; 19 December 1916 – 5 October 2010) was an English film director. His best known film is A Night to Remember (1958) which won a Golden Globe for Best English-Language Foreign Film in 1959. His later career included many horror films and television shows.

Early life and career
Born in London where his father was a Billingsgate fish merchant, Baker was educated at a Lycée in Rouen, France, and at the City of London School.

Career
From 1934 to 1939, Baker worked for Gainsborough Pictures, a British film production company based in the Islington district of London. His first jobs were menial, making tea for crew members, for example, but by 1938 he had risen to the level of assistant director on Alfred Hitchcock's The Lady Vanishes (1938).
He served in the Army during the Second World War, transferring to the Army Kinematograph Unit in 1943 to make better use of his skills as a production manager and director on documentaries. One of his superiors at the time was novelist Eric Ambler, who insisted on Baker being given his first big break directing The October Man, from an Ambler screenplay, in 1947. Ambler also adapted Walter Lord's A Night to Remember for Baker's 1958 screen version. His next two films, The Weaker Sex (1948) and Paper Orchid (1949) were popular but overshadowed by the success of Morning Departure (1950), also featuring John Mills.
Morning Departure drew international attention to Baker's talent and prompted Darryl Zanuck, production head of 20th Century Fox, to invite him to Hollywood, though his first film for the company - I'll Never Forget You - was made in the UK. During the early 1950s, Baker worked for three years at Fox where he directed Marilyn Monroe in Don't Bother to Knock (1952) and Robert Ryan in the 3D film noir Inferno (1953). He returned to the UK in 1953 and continued to work on films.He worked for television during the 1960s and early 1970s. He directed episodes of The Avengers, The Saint, The Persuaders!,  The Champions, Randall and Hopkirk (Deceased) - all of them adventure series created with an eye on the American market. His experience of working with low budgets in television made him well suited to his next career move into cheaply produced but lavish-looking British horror films. He directed, among others, Quatermass and the Pit (1967) The Vampire Lovers (1970) and Scars of Dracula (1970) for Hammer, and Asylum (1972) and The Vault of Horror (1973) for Amicus. He also directed Bette Davis in the black comedy The Anniversary (1968), and co-directed (with renowned Hong Kong director Chang Cheh) the Hammer-Shaw Brothers Studio collaboration The Legend of the 7 Golden Vampires.
In the latter part of the 1970s he returned to television, and throughout the 1980s continued to work on shows such as Minder. He retired in 1992.
In 2000, Baker published his memoirs, Director's Cut: A Memoir of 60 Years in Film, and in 2002 sold his production files and letters at auction.
He contributed interviews to several DVD extras, such as the extras included with The Saint and Randall & Hopkirk - Deceased  and took part in the 2007 BBC 2 documentary series British Film Forever, and in Mark Gatiss's October 2010 BBC 4 series, A History of Horror, in which he gave his final recorded interview.

Personal life
Ward was married to Muriel Bradford from 1940 to 1944. In 1948, he married Joan Dixon, with whom he had a son. They divorced in 1984.

Death
Baker died on 5 October 2010, aged 93.

Partial filmography