Passage 1:
Where Was I
"Where Was I?" may refer to:

Books
"Where Was I?", essay by David Hawley Sanford from The Mind's I
Where Was I?, book by John Haycraft 2006
Where was I?!, book by Terry Wogan 2009

Film and TV
Where Was I? (film), 1925 film directed by William A. Seiter. With Reginald Denny, Marian Nixon, Pauline Garon, Lee Moran.
Where Was I? (2001 film), biography about songwriter Tim Rose
Where Was I? (TV series) 1952–1953 Quiz show with the panelists attempting to guess a location by looking at photos
"Where Was I?" episode of Shoestring (TV series) 1980

Music
"Where was I", song by W. Franke Harling and Al Dubin performed by Ruby Newman and His Orchestra  with vocal chorus by  Larry Taylor and Peggy McCall  1939
"Where Was I", single from Charley Pride discography 1988
"Where Was I" (song), a 1994 song by Ricky Van Shelton
"Where Was I (Donde Estuve Yo)", song by Joe Pass from Simplicity (Joe Pass album)
"Where Was I?", song by Guttermouth from The Album Formerly Known as a Full Length LP (Guttermouth album)
"Where Was I", song by Sawyer Brown (Billy Maddox, Paul Thorn, Anne Graham) from Can You Hear Me Now 2002
"Where Was I?", song  by  Kenny Wayne Shepherd from Live On  1999
"Where Was I", song by Melanie Laine (Victoria Banks, Steve Fox) from Time Flies (Melanie Laine album)
"Where Was I", song by Rosie Thomas from With Love (Rosie Thomas album)
Passage 2:
Place of origin
In Switzerland, the place of origin (German: Heimatort or Bürgerort, literally "home place" or "citizen place"; French: Lieu d'origine; Italian: Luogo di attinenza) denotes where a Swiss citizen has their municipal citizenship, usually inherited from previous generations. It is not to be confused with the place of birth or  place of residence, although two or all three of these locations may be identical depending on the person's circumstances.

Acquisition of municipal citizenship
Swiss citizenship has three tiers. For a person applying to naturalise as a Swiss citizen, these tiers are as follows:

Municipal citizenship, granted by the place of residence after fulfilling several preconditions, such as sufficient knowledge of the local language, integration into local society, and a minimum number of years lived in said municipality.
Cantonal (state) citizenship, for which a Swiss municipal citizenship is required. This requires a certain number of years lived in said canton.
Country citizenship, for which both of the above are required, also requires a certain number of years lived in Switzerland (except for people married to a Swiss citizen, who may obtain simplified naturalisation without having to reside in Switzerland), and involves a criminal background check.The last two kinds of citizenship are a mere formality, while municipal citizenship is the most significant step in becoming a Swiss citizen. 
Nowadays the place of residence determines the municipality where citizenship is acquired, for a new applicant, whereas previously there was a historical reason for preserving the municipal citizenship from earlier generations in the family line, namely to specify which municipality held the responsibility of providing social welfare. The law has now been changed, eliminating this form of allocating responsibility to a municipality other than that of the place of residence. Care needs to be taken when translating the term in Swiss documents which list the historical "Heimatort" instead of the usual place of birth and place of residence.
However, any Swiss citizen can apply for a second, a third or even more municipal citizenships for prestige reasons or to show their connection to the place they currently live – and thus have several places of origin. As the legal significance of the place of origin has waned (see below), Swiss citizens can often apply for municipal citizenship for no more than 100 Swiss francs after having lived in the same municipality for one or two years. In the past, it was common to have to pay between 2,000 and 4,000 Swiss francs as a citizenship fee, because of the financial obligations incumbent on the municipality to grant the citizenship.
A child born to two Swiss parents is automatically granted the citizenship of the parent whose last name they hold, so the child gets either the mother's or the father's place of origin. A child born to one Swiss parent and one foreign parent acquires the citizenship, and thus the place of origin, of the Swiss parent.

International confusion
Almost uniquely in the world (with the exception of Japan, which lists one's Registered Domicile; and Sweden, which lists the mother's place of domicile as place of birth), the Swiss identity card, passport and driving licence do not show the holder's birthplace, but only their place of origin. The vast majority of countries show the holder's actual birthplace on identity documents. This can lead to administrative issues for Swiss citizens abroad when asked to demonstrate their actual place of birth, as no such information exists on any official Swiss identification documents. Only a minority of Swiss citizens have a place of origin identical to their birthplace. More confusion comes into play through the fact that people can have more than one place of origin.

Significance and history
A citizen of a municipality does not enjoy a larger set of rights than a non-citizen of the same municipality. To vote in communal, cantonal or national matters, only the current place of residence matters – or in the case of citizens abroad, the last Swiss place of residence.
The law previously required that a citizen's place of origin continued to bear all their social welfare costs for two years after the citizen moved away. In 2012, the National Council voted by 151 to 9 votes to abolish this law. The place of domicile is now the sole payer of welfare costs.In 1923, 1937, 1959 and 1967, more cantons signed treaties that assured that the place of domicile had to pay welfare costs instead of the place of origin, reflecting the fact that fewer and fewer people lived in their place of origin (1860: 59%, in 1910: 34%).In 1681, the Tagsatzung – the then Swiss parliament – decided that beggars should be deported to their place of origin, especially if they were insufficiently cared for by their residential community.In the 19th century, Swiss municipalities even offered free emigration to the United States if the Swiss citizen agreed to renounce municipal citizenship, and with that the right to receive welfare.

See also
Ancestral home (Chinese)
Bon-gwan
Registered domicile


== Notes and references ==
Passage 3:
Motherland (disambiguation)
Motherland is the place of one's birth, the place of one's ancestors, or the place of origin of an ethnic group.
Motherland may also refer to:

Music
"Motherland" (anthem), the national anthem of Mauritius
National Song (Montserrat), also called "Motherland"
Motherland (Natalie Merchant album), 2001
Motherland (Arsonists Get All the Girls album), 2011
Motherland (Daedalus album), 2011
"Motherland" (Crystal Kay song), 2004

Film and television
Motherland (1927 film), a 1927 British silent war film
Motherland (2010 film), a 2010 documentary film
Motherland (2015 film), a 2015 Turkish drama
Motherland (2022 film), a 2022 documentary film about the Second Nagorno-Karabakh War
Motherland (TV series), a 2016 British television series
Motherland: Fort Salem, a 2020 American science fiction drama series

Other uses
Motherland Party (disambiguation), the name of several political groups
Personifications of Russia, including a list of monuments called Motherland

See also
All pages with titles containing Motherland
Mother Country (disambiguation)
Passage 4:
Beaulieu-sur-Loire
Beaulieu-sur-Loire (French pronunciation: ​[boljø syʁ lwaʁ], literally Beaulieu on Loire) is a commune in the Loiret department in north-central France. It is the place of death of Jacques MacDonald, a French general who served in the Napoleonic Wars.

Population
See also
Communes of the Loiret department
Passage 5:
Valley of Death
Valley of Death may refer to:

Places
Valley of Death (Bydgoszcz), the site of a 1939 Nazi mass murder and mass grave site in northern Poland
Valley of Death (Crimea), the site of the Charge of the Light Brigade in the 1854 Battle of Balaclava
Valley of Death (Gettysburg), the 1863 Gettysburg Battlefield landform of Plum Run
Valley of Death (Dukla Pass), the site of a tank battle during the Battle of the Dukla Pass in 1944 (World War II)
The Valley of Death, an area of poisonous volcanic gas near the Kikhpinych volcano in Russia
The Valley of Death, an area of poisonous volcanic gas near the Tangkuban Perahu volcano in Indonesia
Valley of Death, a nickname for the highly polluted city of Cubatão, Brazil

Other uses
The Valley of Death (audio drama), a Doctor Who audio play
The Valley of Death (film), a 1968 western film
"Valley of Death", the flawed NewsStand: CNN & Time debut program that caused the Operation Tailwind controversy
A literary element of "The Charge of the Light Brigade" by Alfred, Lord Tennyson
A reference to the difficulty of covering negative cash flow in the early stages of a start-up company; see Venture capital
"The Valley of Death", a song by the Swedish heavy metal band Sabaton from the 2022 album The War to End All Wars

See also
All pages with titles containing Valley of Death
Death Valley (disambiguation)
Valley of the Shadow of Death (disambiguation)
Passage 6:
Sennedjem
Sennedjem was an Ancient Egyptian artisan who was active during the reigns of Seti I and Ramesses II. He lived in Set Maat (translated as "The Place of Truth"), contemporary Deir el-Medina, on the west bank of the Nile, opposite Thebes. Sennedjem had the title "Servant in the Place of Truth". He was buried along with his wife, Iyneferti, and members of his family in a tomb in the village necropolis. His tomb was discovered January 31, 1886. When Sennedjem's tomb was found, it contained furniture from his home, including a stool and a bed, which he used when he was alive.His titles included Servant in the Place of Truth, meaning that he worked on the excavation and decoration of the nearby royal tombs.

See also

TT1 – (Tomb of Sennedjem, family and wife)
Passage 7:
Mehmed V
Mehmed V Reşâd (Ottoman Turkish: محمد خامس, romanized: Meḥmed-i ḫâmis; Turkish: V. Mehmed or Mehmed Reşad; 2 November 1844 – 3 July 1918) was the 35th and penultimate sultan of the Ottoman Empire from 1909 to 1918. Mehmed V reigned as a constitutional monarch, interfering little when it came to government affairs, though the constitution was held with little respect by his governments. The first half of his reign was marked by contentious politicking between factions of the Young Turks, with the second half being headed by the Committee of Union and Progress and the Three Pashas.
Reşad was the son of Sultan Abdulmejid I. He succeeded his half-brother Abdul Hamid II after the 31 March Incident. He was succeeded by his half-brother Mehmed VI in the summer of 1918.
Coming to power in the aftermath of a failed coup attempt, his nine-year reign featured three coup d'etats and four wars. The Italo-Turkish War saw the cession of the Empire's North African territories and the Dodecanese Islands, including Rhodes, during which the CUP was forced out of power by the military. This was followed up by the traumatic loss of almost all of the Empire's European territories west of Constantinople (now Istanbul) in the First Balkan War, and the return of a now radicalized CUP rule. Eastern Thrace was retaken in the Second Balkan War.
The Ottomans entered World War I in November 1914 during which Mehmed declared a jihad against the Allies. During the war the Ottoman government committed genocides against its Christian minorities. While Ottoman forces successfully fended off an Allied invasion at Gallipoli, defeat loomed on the Caucasian and Mesopotamian fronts. Military collapse in the field and a revolt by its Arab subjects would ultimately lead to the Empire's end.

Early life
Prince Reşad was born on 2 November 1844 at the Çırağan Palace, Istanbul. His father was Sultan Abdulmejid I, and his mother was Gülcemal Kadın. He had three elder sisters, Fatma Sultan, Refia Sultan and Hatice Sultan (Refia Sultan's twin sister, died as newborn). After his mother's death in 1851, he and his sisters were entrusted in the care of his father's senior consort Servetseza Kadın. She had asked Abdulmejid to take the motherless children under her wing, and raise as her own, and carried out the duties of a mother who cares for her children with compassion and concern.In 1856, aged twelve, he was ceremoniously circumcised together with his younger half-brothers, Şehzade Ahmed Kemaleddin, Şehzade Mehmed Burhaneddin, and Şehzade Ahmed Nureddin.Mehmed received his education at the palace. Halid Ziya, the chief clerk of the Chamberlain's office between 1909 and 1912, described this as being a poor one. Thanks to his comparatively high intelligence, however, he made good use of the education he had and used it to go further. He studied Arabic and Persian, and spoke the latter very well. He took piano lessons from an Italian pianist and calligraphy lessons from a famous Ottoman calligrapher, Kazasker Mustafa Izzet Efendi (1801–1876), who designed the giant pendant medallions of the Hagia Sophia.

Reign
His reign began at the conclusion of the 31 March Incident on 27 April 1909, but he was largely a figurehead with no real political power, as a consequence of the demonstration of the CUP's power in the 31 March Incident and the Young Turk Revolution (which restored the Ottoman Constitution and Parliament). In 1913 the CUP undertook a coup d'état, which brought the dictatorial triumvirate of the Three Pashas to power. At the age of 64, Mehmed V was the oldest person to ascend the Ottoman throne.

In 1911, he embarked on an imperial tour of Selânik (Salonica, today Thessaloniki) and Manastır (today Bitola), stopping by Florina on the way. He also visited Üsküp (Skopje) and Priştine (Pristina), where he attended Friday prayers at the Tomb of Sultan Murad. The visit was recorded on film and photographs by the Manaki brothers. It would soon prove to be the last visit of an Ottoman sultan to the Rumelian provinces before the catastrophe of the Balkan Wars the following year.
Under his rule, the Ottoman Empire lost all its remaining territory in North Africa (Tripolitania, Cyrenaica and Fezzan) and the Dodecanese to Italy in the Italo-Turkish War and nearly all its European territories (except for a small strip of land west of Constantinople) in the First Balkan War. The Ottomans made some small gains in the following war, recapturing the peninsula comprising East Thrace up to Edirne, but this was only partial consolation for the Turks: the bulk of Ottoman territories that they had fought to keep had been lost forever.The sudden loss of these enormous swathes of land, which had been Ottoman territory for centuries and were ceded to the Empire's opponents within a span of only two years, was deeply shocking to the Ottoman Turks and resulted in massive popular backlash against the government, culminating in the 1913 Ottoman coup d'etat. It also spelt the end of the Ottomanism movement, which for several decades had advocated equal rights to all citizens of the Empire regardless of ethnicity or religion, in order to foster a communal sense of belonging and allegiance to the Ottoman state. With the loss of the Empire's ethnic minorities in Rumelia and North Africa, the movement's raison d'être also evaporated, and the country's politics soon began to take on a more reactionary character, centred around Turkish nationalism. The more extreme elements of this right-wing faction, primarily in the upper echelons of the CUP-dominated government, would go on to commit atrocities against the Armenians.Despite his preference that the country stayed out of further conflict, Mehmed V's most significant political act was to formally declare jihad against the Entente Powers (Allies of World War I) on 14 November 1914, following the Ottoman government's decision to join the First World War on the side of the Central Powers. He was actually said to look with disfavour on the pro-German policy of Enver Pasha, but could do little to prevent war due to the sultanate's diminished influence since the overthrow of Abdülhamid II in 1909.
This was the last genuine proclamation of jihad in history by a Caliph, as the Caliphate was abolished in 1924. As a direct result of the declaration of war, the British annexed Cyprus, while the Khedivate of Egypt proclaimed its independence and was turned into a British protectorate; these provinces had at least been under nominal Ottoman rule. The proclamation had no noticeable effect on the war, despite the fact that many Muslims lived in Ottoman territories. Some Arabs eventually joined the British forces against the Ottoman Empire with the Arab Revolt in 1916.
Mehmed V hosted Kaiser Wilhelm II, his World War I ally, in Constantinople on 15 October 1917. He was made Generalfeldmarschall of the Kingdom of Prussia on 27 January 1916, and of the German Empire on 1 February 1916. He was also made Generalfeldmarschall of Austria-Hungary on 19 May 1918.

Death
Mehmed V died at Yıldız Palace on 3 July 1918 at the age of 73, only four months before the end of World War I. Thus, he did not live to see the downfall of the Ottoman Empire. He spent most of his life at the Dolmabahçe Palace and Yıldız Palace in Istanbul. His grave is in the Eyüp district of modern Istanbul.

Honours
Ottoman honoursGrand Master of the Order of the Crescent
Grand Master of the Order of Glory
Grand Master of the Order of the Medjidie
Grand Master of the Order of OsmaniehForeign honoursGrand Cross of St. Stephen, in Diamonds, 1914 (Austria-Hungary)
Knight of the Military Order of Max Joseph (Bavaria)
Grand Cross of the Star of Karađorđe (Serbia)

Family
Mehmed V had a small harem, as well as few children. He was also the only sultan not to take new consorts after his accession to the throne.

Consorts
Mehmed V had five consorts:
Kamures Kadın (5 March 1855 – 30 April 1921). BaşKadin. She is also called Gamres, Kamres or Kamus. Of Caucasian descent, she married Mehmed when he was still Şehzade. She had a son.
Dürriaden Kadın (16 May 1860 – 17 October 1909). Second Kadın. She born Hatice Hanim, she married Mehmed when he was still Şehzade. She was the aunt of Inşirah Hanim, who was a consort of Mehmed VI (Mehmed V's younger half-brother). She had a son.
Mihrengiz Kadın (15 October 1869 – 12 December 1938). Second Kadın after Dürriaden's death. Circassian, born Fatma Hanım, married Mehmed when he was still Şehzade. She had a son.
Nazperver Kadın (12 June 1870 – 9 March 1929). Third Kadın after Dürriaden's death. Born Rukiye Hanim, she was an Abkhazian princess of Çikotua family and niece of Dürrinev Kadın, chief consort of Sultan Abdülaziz, who educated her. She married Mehmed when he was still Şehzade. She had a daughter.
Dilfirib Kadın (1890–1952). Fourth Kadın after Dürriaden's death. Circassian, she married Mehmed when he was still Şehzade. She was close friends with Safiye Ünüvar, a teacher at the Palace. She had no children by Mehmed, but after his death she remarried and had a son.

Sons
Mehmed V had three sons:
Şehzade Mehmed Ziyaeddin (26 August 1873 – 30 January 1938)–with Kamures Kadın. He had five consorts, two sons and six daughters.
Şehzade Mahmud Necmeddin (23 June 1878 – 27 June 1913) – with Dürriaden Kadın. Born with kyphosis, he never married or had children.
Şehzade Ömer Hilmi (2 March 1886 – 6 April 1935) – with Mihrengiz Kadın. He had five consorts, a son and a daughter. His great-granddaughter Ayşe Gülnev Osmanoğlu became an authress of historical novels about the Ottoman dynasty.

Daughters
Mehmed V had only one daughter:
Refia Sultan (1888–1888) – with Nazperver Kadın. She died as newborn.

See also
The Ottomans: Europe's Muslim Emperors
Passage 8:
Dance of Death (disambiguation)
Dance of Death, also called Danse Macabre, is a late-medieval allegory of the universality of death.
Dance of Death or The Dance of Death may also refer to:

Books
Dance of Death, a 1938 novel by Helen McCloy
Dance of Death (Stine novel), a 1997 novel by R. L. Stine
Dance of Death (novel), a 2005 novel by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child

Theatre and film
The Dance of Death (Strindberg play), a 1900 play by August Strindberg
The Dance of Death, a 1908 play by Frank Wedekind
The Dance of Death (Auden play), a 1933 play by W. H. Auden

Film
The Death Dance, a 1918 drama starring Alice Brady
The Dance of Death (1912 film), a German silent film
The Dance of Death (1919 film), an Austrian silent film
The Dance of Death (1938 film), crime drama starring Vesta Victoria; screenplay by Ralph Dawson
The Dance of Death (1948 film), French-Italian drama based on Strindberg's play, starring Erich von Stroheim
The Dance of Death (1967 film), a West German drama film
Dance of Death or House of Evil, 1968 Mexican horror film starring Boris Karloff
Dance of Death (1969 film), a film based on Strindberg's play, starring Laurence Olivier
Dance of Death (1979 film), a Hong Kong film featuring Paul Chun

Music
Dance of Death (album), a 2003 album by Iron Maiden, or the title song
The Dance of Death & Other Plantation Favorites, a 1964 album by John Fahey
The Dance of Death (Scaramanga Six album)
"Death Dance", a 2016 song by Sevendust

See also
Dance of the Dead (disambiguation)
Danse Macabre (disambiguation)
Bon Odori, a Japanese traditional dance welcoming the spirits of the dead
La danse des morts, an oratorio by Arthur Honegger
Totentanz (disambiguation)
Passage 9:
Kamures Kadın
Kamures Kadın (Ottoman Turkish: کامرس قادین; meaning "Bringer of pleasure"; called also Gamres, Kamres or Kamus Kadın; 5 March 1855 – 30 April 1921) was the first and chief consort of Sultan Mehmed V of the Ottoman Empire.

Early years
Kamures Kadın was born on 5 March 1855. According to Palace documents he was born in Ganja, although there are doubts about that. She was sent to the Ottoman court when she was very young as a slave, which was the traditional custom. She received an excellent education and became an outstanding pianist. 
She married the then-Prince Mehmed Reşad on 30 September 1872. She was his first consort. A year after the marriage, on 26 August 1873, she gave birth to her only son, Şehzade Mehmed Ziyaeddin.

Reign of Mehmed V
On 27 April 1909, after Mehmed's accession to the throne, she was given the title of "Senior Kadın".In 1914, she met with Sultan Jahan, Begum of Bhopal. Sultan Mehmed, who knew Persian well, acted as interpreter between the two of them. Safiye Ünüvar, a teacher at the Palace School, commented in her memoirs about her beauty, and said that she still some of her looks, when the two met in 1915. Kamures had occupied herself with reading history, and whenever Safiye visited her she would always bring up with the subject of Ottoman history.In 1918, she met with the king Boris III of Bulgaria, when he visited Istanbul. She was presented as Queen of Ottoman Empire. This was significant, since meeting a man meant that she broke the traditional harem seclusion. On 30 May 1918, Kamures met with the Empress Zita of Bourbon-Parma in the harem of Yıldız Palace, when the latter visited Istanbul with her husband Emperor Charles I of Austria.

Philanthropy
On 20 March 1912, the "Hilal-i Ahmer Centre for Women" was organised within the "Ottoman Hilal-i Ahmer Association", a foundation established in 1877 to provide medical care in Istanbul and surrounding communities. Kamures served as the honorary president of this organization. The same year, she also received the Ottoman Red Crescent Medal (Osmanlı Hilal-i Ahmer Madalyası), which was created shortly after the start of the Balkan Wars in November 1912. The award was given to those who would render beneficent services, materially or morally, to the organisation. She was the only Ottoman Muslim woman before the First World War to have received the medal in gold.In February 1914, the organisation announced the start of a course for nursing aids, which would consist of eighteen lessons of two hours each on Fridays and Sundays. The classes were to be taught by Besim Ömer and Akıl Muhtar. Between 40 and 50 women participated in the course and at the end of the five months course 27 women successfully took the exam. These 27 women, who were all wives and daughters of prominent Ottoman officials, received their certificate during a ceremony in the presence of Kamures, of Naciye Sultan and her mother and other palace women.In April 1913, Kamures served as the patroness of the organization Osmanlı–Türk Hanımları Esirgeme Derneği (Association for the Protection of Ottoman Turkish Women). The sultan donated 50 Ottoman pounds to the organization.

Death
After Mehmed's death on 3 July 1918, she settled in the palace of her stepson Şehzade Mahmud Necmeddin in Kuruçeşme, where she died on 30 April 1921, at the age of sixty-six. She was buried in the mausoleum of her husband located in the Eyüp Cemetery, Istanbul.

Honours
Ottoman Red Crescent Medal in Gold, 1912

Appointments
Honorary President of the Hilal-i Ahmer Centre for Women, 20 March 1912

Issue
See also
Kadın (title)
Ottoman Imperial Harem
List of consorts of the Ottoman sultans
Passage 10:
Place of birth
The place of birth (POB) or birthplace is the place where a person was born. This place is often used in legal documents, together with name and date of birth, to uniquely identify a person. Practice regarding whether this place should be a country, a territory or a city/town/locality differs in different countries, but often city or territory is used for native-born citizen passports and countries for foreign-born ones.
As a general rule with respect to passports, if the place of birth is to be a country, it's determined to be the country that currently has sovereignty over the actual place of birth, regardless of when the birth actually occurred. The place of birth is not necessarily the place where the parents of the new baby live. If the baby is born in a hospital in another place, that place is the place of birth. In many countries, this also means that the government requires that the birth of the new baby is registered in the place of birth.
Some countries place less or no importance on the place of birth, instead using alternative geographical characteristics for the purpose of identity documents. For example, Sweden has used the concept of födelsehemort ("domicile of birth") since 1947. This means that the domicile of the baby's mother is the registered place of birth. The location of the maternity ward or other physical birthplace is considered unimportant.
Similarly, Switzerland uses the concept of place of origin. A child born to Swiss parents is automatically assigned the place of origin of the parent with the same last name, so the child either gets their mother's or father's place of origin. A child born to one Swiss parent and one foreign parent acquires the place of origin of their Swiss parent. In a Swiss passport and identity card, the holder's place of origin is stated, not their place of birth. In Japan, the registered domicile is a similar concept.
In some countries (primarily in the Americas), the place of birth automatically determines the nationality of the baby, a practice often referred to by the Latin phrase jus soli. Almost all countries outside the Americas instead attribute nationality based on the nationality(-ies) of the baby's parents (referred to as jus sanguinis).
There can be some confusion regarding the place of birth if the birth takes place in an unusual way: when babies are born on an airplane or at sea, difficulties can arise. The place of birth of such a person depends on the law of the countries involved, which include the nationality of the plane or ship, the nationality(-ies) of the parents and/or the location of the plane or ship (if the birth occurs in the territorial waters or airspace of a country).
Some administrative forms may request the applicant's "country of birth". It is important to determine from the requester whether the information requested refers to the applicant's "place of birth" or "nationality at birth". For example, US citizens born abroad who acquire US citizenship at the time of birth, the nationality at birth will be USA (American), while the place of birth would be the country in which the actual birth takes place.

Reference list
8 FAM 403.4 Place of Birth