Passage 1:
Autohead
Autohead is a 2016 film directed by Rohit Mittal.

Cast
Passage 2:
Spy Kids 2: The Island of Lost Dreams
Spy Kids 2: The Island of Lost Dreams is a 2002 American spy action comedy film written, shot, edited and directed by Robert Rodriguez. Rodriguez also produced with Elizabeth Avellán. It stars Antonio Banderas, Carla Gugino, Alexa Vega, Daryl Sabara, Mike Judge, Ricardo Montalbán, Holland Taylor, Christopher McDonald, and Steve Buscemi.
The second installment in the Spy Kids film series, which began with 2001's Spy Kids, the film premiered at the Grauman's Chinese Theatre in Hollywood on July 28, 2002. Dimension Films theatrically released the film on August 7. Upon release, Spy Kids 2 received mostly positive reviews from critics and grossed over $119 million worldwide.

Plot
The OSS now has a full child spy section, of which Carmen Cortez and Juni Cortez are now Level 2 agents. Although they are the first of the new Spy Kids Division, they face fierce competition from Gary and Gerti Giggles, the children of Donnagon Giggles (the agent whom Carmen and Juni rescued on their first mission). Carmen defends Gary, even after the two outperform them on a mission to rescue the president's daughter Alexandra from an out of control theme park ride, straining her relationship with Juni.
At the OSS awards banquet, Donnagon hacks into the president's teleprompter, and is named director of the OSS instead of Gregorio Cortez. In his acceptance speech, Donnagon announces his two children are being promoted from Level 3 to Level 1. However, the adults are rendered unconscious by a group of "Magna Men", who are seeking the "Transmooker", a highly coveted device owned by the president, which can shut off all electronic devices around the world. The Spy Kids hold them off but the Magna Men manage to steal the Transmooker after Gary causes Juni to drop it in a scuffle. Gary blames Juni for the theft, resulting in him being fired from the OSS.
The next morning Carmen hacks into the database, reinstating Juni as an agent and taking the Ukata assignment, a mission originally meant for Gary and Gerti, to recover the stolen Transmooker. Using some hints from their former arch-nemesis, Alexander Minion, they follow the trail to a mysterious island where no electronics work. Meanwhile, Gary and Gerti are rerouted to the Gobi Desert and while trying to pinpoint their position fall into a pit of camel feces, whereupon they swear revenge.
Carmen and Juni manage to reach the island, but realize that none of their gadgets work. After falling into a volcano, the two meet Romero, a scientist and sole human inhabitant of the island who has been attempting to create genetically miniaturized animals to sell to kids as "miniature zoos". After creating hybrid animals, Romero accidentally poured a growth concoction over them, greatly increasing their size. He also reveals that he created the Transmooker device, as a mean of hiding his island from the outside world, meaning that the stolen Transmooker was a prototype and the real one is on the island somewhere. Romero fears being eaten, so is unwilling to leave his lab, but shows Carmen and Juni the way to the real Transmooker. As both Gregorio and Ingrid are tracking where Juni and Carmen are, they are joined by Ingrid's parents who want to help them find their children.
Carmen is captured by a Spork, a flying pig, and dropped into its nest with Gerti, who tells her that Gary is genuinely evil. Her feelings for Gary change after he and a Slizard he tamed attack Juni and his Spider Monkey. Carmen manages to incapacitate Gary and she and Juni leave to retrieve the Transmooker. Romero, encouraged by Juni, leaves his lab and discovers his creatures are much friendlier than he thought. Carmen and Juni eventually find and recover the Transmooker, eliminating the cloaking around the island, and are surprised when their family joins them. Donnagon then confronts the group, takes the Transmooker and, after a fight with Gregorio tries to destroy the Cortez family with it, but it malfunctions. Gerti reveals she sabotaged it and threatens Donnagon with telling everything to her mother, which he detests. Romero arrives alongside his creatures and destroys the prototype Transmooker as well.
The President and his staff arrive on the island. He and his daughter fire Donnagon; Gary is temporarily disavowed, and Alexandra appoints Gregorio as director of the OSS on her father's behalf. Even though offered a promotion to Level 1, Juni resigns due to the impersonal treatment he had received by the OSS after being framed. As the Cortez family leaves the island, Romero gives Juni a miniature spider-monkey as a gift, and the island's inhabitants bid farewell to the Cortez family.
During the credits, Isador "Machete" Cortez hosts a concert featuring Carmen (with a microphone which helps her sing, and a belt that helps her dance), and Juni (with a guitar that plays itself), but realizes too late that he never put any batteries in the devices before they went onstage. When he breaks this news to Carmen and Juni, this shocks them, realizing they have musical talent. Meanwhile, Dinky Winks, the owner of Troublemakers theme park where Juni rescued Alexandra, paddles to Romero's island to offer a business deal.

Cast
Antonio Banderas as Gregorio Cortez, the father of Juni and Carmen who is now called back to the OSS
Carla Gugino as Ingrid Cortez, the mother of Juni and Carmen
Alexa Vega as Carmen Cortez, daughter of Gregorio and Ingrid who is now an OSS member of their spy kid division
Daryl Sabara as Juni Cortez, son of Gregorio and Ingrid and Carmen's brother, also a member of the OSS's spy kid division
Mike Judge as Donnagon Giggles, an OSS agent turned director who was previously rescued by Carmen and Juni, but is now seeking world domination
Ricardo Montalbán as Grandfather Valentin Avellan
Holland Taylor as Grandmother Helga Avellan
Christopher McDonald as the President of the United States
Danny Trejo as Isador "Machete" Cortez, gadget inventor and Juni and Carmen's uncle
Alan Cumming as Fegan Floop, host of Floop's Fooglies
Tony Shalhoub as Alexander Minion, Floop's assistant
Matt O'Leary as Gary Giggles, the son of Donnagon Giggles and a rival OSS agent of Juni and Carmen's love interest
Taylor Momsen as Alexandra, the President's daughter
Emily Osment as Gerti Giggles, daughter of Donnagon Giggles and a rival OSS agent of Carmen
Cheech Marin as Felix Gumm, an OSS agent
Steve Buscemi as RomeroAdditionally, Bill Paxton appears as Dinky Winks, a theme park owner.

Production
Spy Kids 2 was filmed entirely on High Definition digital video. After seeing George Lucas using digital video for Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones, Rodriguez tested the technology during re shoots for the first Spy Kids film. Rodriguez used the cameras unfiltered.

Filming sites
Arenal Lake, Costa Rica
Austin, Texas, USA
Big Bend National Park, Texas, USA
Manuel Antonio, Costa Rica
San Antonio, Texas, USA
Six Flags Over Texas, Arlington, Texas, USA

Special effects
Despite using over twice the amount of special effects than the first film, Rodriguez did not ask the producers for a larger budget; he said that he wanted to be more creative instead of asking the studio for more money for special effects. Rodriguez picked some visual effects companies who were eager and less established, as well as starting up his own Troublemaker Studios, and reemploying Hybrid, who had worked with him on the first film. Gregor Punchatz, the film's lead animator, employed a certain technique to make the movements of the computer generated creatures resemble the stop-motion work of filmmaker Ray Harryhausen, who has a cameo in the film. The scene with the army of live skeletons was shot on a real rock formation, with the two young actors on safety wires, and the computer generated skeletons added later to over three dozen shots.

Music
The film score was co-written by director Robert Rodriguez and composer John Debney, who had also co-written the score for Spy Kids. The sound is a mix of rock, pop, and indie rock, and includes songs performed by Alan Cumming and Alexa Vega. Unusually, the orchestral score was recorded in the auditorium of a local high school in Austin, Georgetown High School.All tracks composed by Debney and Rodriguez, and performed by the Texas Philharmonic Orchestra.

"The Juggler"
"Spy Ballet"
"Magna Men"
"Treehouse"
"R.A.L.P.H."
"Floop's Dream" (performed by Alan Cumming)
"Escape from Dragon-spy"
"Spy-parents"
"Island of Lost Dreams"
"Donnagon's Big Office"/"The Giggles"
"Mysterious Volcano Island"
"Romero's Zoo Too"
"Mothership"/"SpyGrandparents"
"Magna Racers"
"Aztec Treasure Room"
"Skeletons"
"Creature Battle"
"Romero's Creatures"/"SpyBeach"
"SpyDad vs. SpyDad"/"Romero's Gift"
"Isle of Dreams" (performed by Alexa Vega)Additional music not on the soundtrack album includes "Oye Como Spy", which is an adaptation of Tito Puente's "Oye Como Va", performed by Los Lobos (the song is on the soundtrack album from the first Spy Kids film).

Release
Home media
The film was released on VHS and DVD in the United States on February 18, 2003. The film is also available to download on iTunes. A Blu-ray re-release was scheduled for August 2, 2011 to coincide with the fourth film.

Reception
Box office
Spy Kids 2: The Island of Lost Dreams opened theatrically on August 7, 2002 in 3,307 venues and earned $16,711,716 in its first weekend, ranking third in the North American box office behind XXX and the second weekend of Signs. The film ended its run on January 12, 2003, having grossed $85,846,429 in the United States and Canada, and $33,876,929 overseas for a worldwide total of $119,723,358.

Critical response
On Rotten Tomatoes, Spy Kids 2: The Island of Lost Dreams has a 75% approval score based on 136 reviews and an average rating of 6.6/10. The site's critical consensus reads: "Though the concept is no longer fresh, Spy Kids 2 is still an agreeable and energetic romp". Metacritic reports a 66 out of 100 rating based on reviews from 29 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "A-" on an A+ to F scale.Roger Ebert gave the film 3 out of 4 stars and commented: "With Spy Kids 2: The Island of Lost Dreams, the Spy Kids franchise establishes itself as a durable part of the movie landscape: a James Bond series for kids". Kenneth Turan of the New York Times gave it 4 out of 5 stars said: "The movie is a gaudy, noisy thrill ride -- hyperactive, slightly out of control and full of kinetic, mischievous charm". Lisa Schwarzbaum of Entertainment Weekly wrote: "The antics are a tad more frantic, and the gizmos work overtime, as if ... Robert Rodriguez felt the hot breath of el diablo on his neck. On the other hand, the inventiveness is still superior and the network of fiends [sic] and family is extended". Michael Wilmington of Metro mix Chicago, noting how Rodriguez borrows many elements from television and earlier films, stated that "Rodriguez recycles and refurbishes all these old movie bits with the opportunistic energy of a man looting his old attic toy chest -- but he also puts some personal feeling into the movie. This is a film about families staying together, children asserting themselves and even, to some degree, Latino power".

Other media
Sequels
It was followed up in 2003 by a third film in the series, Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over, and in 2011 by a fourth film, Spy Kids: All the Time in the World.

Novelization
Talk Miramax Books released a novelization of the film in June/July 2002. The novel was written by children's book author Kiki Thorpe. The posters and end of the credits even say "Read the Talk/Miramax Books", telling the viewers to read the print retelling.
Passage 3:
Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over
Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over (also known as Spy Kids 3: Game Over) is a 2003 American spy action comedy film, the sequel to Spy Kids 2: The Island of Lost Dreams, and the third installment overall in the Spy Kids film series. Written and directed by Robert Rodriguez and co-produced by Elizabeth Avellán, the film stars Antonio Banderas, Carla Gugino, Alexa Vega, Daryl Sabara, Elijah Wood, Ricardo Montalbán, Holland Taylor, Mike Judge, Salma Hayek, Matt O'Leary, Emily Osment, Cheech Marin, Bobby Edner, Courtney Jines, Robert Vito, Ryan Pinkston, Danny Trejo, Alan Cumming, Tony Shalhoub, and Sylvester Stallone. It was released in the United States on July 25, 2003, by Dimension Films. Despite mixed to negative reviews, the film grossed $197 million on a $38 million budget, becoming the highest-grossing film in the series.
Though this was initially intended to be the final installment in the Spy Kids film franchise, it was eventually followed by a fourth film, Spy Kids: All the Time in the World, in 2011.

Plot
Juni Cortez, sometime after the events of the second film, has retired from the OSS and now lives quietly, working as a private detective, though on a minuscule salary. One day, he is contacted by President Devlin, the former head of the OSS, who informs him that his sister, Carmen Cortez, is missing after a mission gone wrong.
Arriving at the technological and computer department of OSS, Juni is reunited with a now reformed Donnagon Giggles and his wife Francesca, who explain that Carmen was captured by the Toymaker, a former OSS informant who was imprisoned in cyberspace but has since created Game Over, a virtual reality-based video game which he intends on using to permanently take control of children's minds. Juni agrees to venture into the game, save Carmen, and shut it down, with only twelve hours to win. He is also informed that his sister was last seen on Level 4.
In the game, Juni finds the challenges difficult, having only nine lives and already losing one at the start. While roaming a cartoon-like medieval village, he finds three beta-testers, Francis, Arnold, and Rez, who provide him with passage to the Moon and launch him into space, but mostly to eliminate the competition.
Juni lands hard on the Moon, consequently losing another life, and receives an opportunity to bring in an ally for assistance. He chooses his grandfather Valentin, who uses a wheelchair and has a personal history with the Toymaker. Valentin receives a power-up which gives him a robotic bodysuit, allowing him to walk and possess superhuman strength and durability. Distracted by a butterfly, he abandons Juni, telling him they will regroup later. Searching for the entrance to Level 2, Juni ventures into a robot battle arena where he fights a girl named Demetra to return to Earth and Level 2. In the fight, he receives a more powerful robotic suit, and is placed on a huge mecha to combat Demetra. In the 3-round fight, in which he loses another life, he defeats her and he is allowed to keep his power suit.
He meets the beta-testers again who believe that he is a character named "The Guy", who can supposedly beat the allegedly "un-winnable" Level 5. Rez is unconvinced and challenges Juni to a "Mega-race" involving a multitude of vehicles, which will allow them onto Level 3. The only apparent rule of this game is "win at any cost". Juni wins the race with help from Valentin, and Demetra joins them; she and Juni display romantic feelings, with him giving her a med-pack with extra lives and her providing him with an illegal map of the game. Upon entering Level 3, Arnold and Juni are forced to battle, the loser getting an immediate game over. During the fight, Juni loses almost all of his lives, but Demetra swaps places with him and is defeated, seemingly getting a game over, upsetting Juni.
The group arrives at Level 4 where Juni finds Carmen, released by the Toymaker, who leads the group. Carmen notices their grandfather is with them and tells Juni the Toymaker is the reason their grandfather uses a wheelchair. Juni follows a map to a lava-filled gorge and the group surfs their way through it. The OSS finds out about the history between the Toymaker and Valentin. Fearing that Valentin might seek revenge, Donnagon attempts to prevent them from reaching Level 5, but fails. They fall into the lava and discover it is harmless, and they reach a cavern where they find the door to Level 5. Carmen asks how much time is remaining, and Juni informs the group that they only have 5 minutes. After the other gamers start to think that Carmen and Juni are deceivers and Rez threatens to give Juni a game over, the real Guy appears, gives the group a pep talk, zaps the door open and walks in, arrogantly thinking it was easy. However, as part of a booby trap set by the Toymaker, he is struck by lightning which causes him collapse and his life count to rapidly drop from 99 to .5, and after The Guy nervously says "Oops", the life count drops to 0, giving him a permanent Game Over, forcing the group to move on without him.
In the Level 5 zone, a purple cyberspace, Demetra appears, claiming to have re-entered the game via a glitch but Carmen identifies her as "The Deceiver", a program used to mislead players. Demetra confirms this and apologizes to a stunned Juni before the Toymaker attacks them with giant robots. Valentin appears, holding the entrance back to the real world open so the group can escape. Demetra, shedding a tear, quickly holds the door open so he can go with them. Upon return though, it is revealed that Valentin had released the Toymaker with the villain's robot army now attacking the city.
Juni and Carmen summon their family members: parents Gregorio and Ingrid, Gregorio's brother Isador "Machete" Cortez, their grandmother, and Uncle Felix. With too many robots to handle, Juni calls out for everyone to help, summoning Fegan Floop, his assistant Minion, the robot children, Dinky Winks and his son, Romero and a spork, as well as Gary and Gerti Giggles. All of the robots are destroyed except for the Toymaker's. Valentin confronts The Toymaker and forgives him for what he did, which Valentin had been trying to do for 30 years. The Toymaker shuts down his robot and joins the rest of the Cortez family and their friends in celebrating their families.

Cast
Additionally, Salma Hayek appears as Francesca Giggles, Steve Buscemi appears as Romero, Bill Paxton appears as Dinky Winks, George Clooney appears as Devlin, Elijah Wood appears as The Guy, Selena Gomez appears as Waterpark Girl, Glen Powell appears as Long-fingered Boy, and James Paxton appears as Dinky Winks Jr.

Production
Filming
Filming took place from January 10 to April 2003.Green screen was widely used, with about 90% of the film being green screen footage.

Music
The film score was composed by Robert Rodriguez and is the first score for which he takes solo credit. Rodriguez also performs in the "Game Over" band, playing guitar, bass, keyboard and drums, including the title track, "Game Over", performed by Alexa Vega.All selections composed by Rodriguez and performed by Texas Philharmonic Orchestra, conducted by George Oldziey and Rodriguez.

"Game Over" (vocals by Alexa Vega)
"Thumb Thumbs"
"Pogoland"
"Robot Arena"
"Metal Battle"
"Toymaker"
"Mega Racer"
"Programmerz"
"Bonus Life"
"Cyber Staff Battle"
"Tinker Toys"
"Lava Monster Rock"
"The Real Guy"
"Orbit"
"Welcome to the Game"
"Heart Drive" (performed by Bobby Edner and Alexa Vega)
"Game Over (Level 5 Mix)" (performed by Alexa Vega)
"Isle of Dreams (Cortez Mix)" (performed by Alexa Vega)Tracks 17–18 produced by Dave Curtin for DeepMix.

Release
Home media
The film was released via VHS and DVD on February 24, 2004, by Dimension Home Video. The film's 3-D effect was not removable on the DVD release, but a 2D version (Spy Kids 3: Game Over) was available on a second disc, and on television airings. In April 2011, the film was re-released on DVD, but only in 2D and named Spy Kids 3: Game Over.
The 2D version was released via Blu-ray on August 2, 2011. On December 4, 2012, Lionsgate released the 3D version as a double feature with The Adventures of Sharkboy and Lavagirl on Blu-ray 3D.

Reception
Box office
Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over opened theatrically on July 25, 2003, in 3,344 venues, earning $33,417,739 in its first weekend and ranking first at the North American box office. It is the series' highest-grossing opening weekend. The film ended its run on February 5, 2004, having grossed $111,761,982 domestically and $85,250,000 internationally for a worldwide total of $197,011,982, making it the best performing film in the series.

Critical response
Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over received mixed reviews from critics. Review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a 45% approval rating based on 143 reviews, with an average rating of 5.42/10. The website's critical consensus states: "The movie will be found wanting if one is not taken in by the 3-D visuals". Metacritic reports a 57/100 rating based on 30 critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "B+" on an A+ to F scale.Bob Longino of the Atlanta Journal-Constitution wrote that "the 3-D process will hurt your eyes. The onscreen characters, who also wear 3-D glasses, even say so when it's time to take them off". However, he also stated that it helped mask what he deemed as an overall lack of a story. Jim Lane of Sacramento News and Review called the 3D scenes "murky and purple like a window smeared with grape jell-o". Roger Ebert gave the film one and a half stars out of four, suggesting that perhaps Rodriguez was held back by the film's technical constraints. Ebert also admitted to showing disdain for the 3D gimmick, saying that the picture quality with the 3D glasses is more murky and washed out than the crisper and more colorful 2D films. Mick LaSalle of the San Francisco Chronicle noted Carmen's absence for much of the film and criticized the plot's repeated scenes of Juni attempting over and over again to reach Level Five. Kimberly Jones of the Austin City Chronicle praised the visuals but called the plot twig-thin and stated that the parents' near absence in the story makes Rodriguez's continuing theme of family ties seem much less resonant than in the other films. The reason the characters were in minor roles and cameos was because Rodriguez was filming Once Upon a Time in Mexico while writing the third Spy Kids film.For his performance as The Toymaker, Sylvester Stallone earned a Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Supporting Actor at John J. B. Wilson's 2003 Golden Raspberry Awards ceremony.

Other media
Sequel
After the release of the film, there were plans of an animated, straight-to-DVD sequel, but it never went past pre-production and was simply an idea.The film was eventually followed up in 2011 by a fourth film in the series, Spy Kids: All the Time in the World.

Novelization
Talk Miramax Books released a novelization of the movie in June 2003. The novel was written by children's book author Kitty Richards. The posters and end of the credits even say "Read the Talk/Miramax Books", telling the viewers to read the print retelling.

In popular culture
In "The Never-Ending Stories" episode of the animated TV series American Dad (Season 15, episode 9), CIA agent Stan Smith tells the class he is teaching that he is the only contributor to the Wikipedia article on Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over.
Passage 4:
The North Star (2016 film)
The North Star is a 2016 film about slavery and the underground railroad.

Plot summary
Cast
Jeremiah Trotter as Big Ben Jones
Thomas C. Bartley Jr. as Moses Hopkins (as Thomas C. Bartley)
Clifton Powell as Mr. Lee
John Diehl as Master Anderson
Keith David as Frederick Douglas
Lynn Whitfield as Miss Grace

See also
List of films featuring slavery
Passage 5:
The Keeper of Lost Causes
The Keeper of Lost Causes (Danish: Kvinden i buret), also known as Department Q: The Keeper of Lost Causes, is a 2013 Danish film directed by Mikkel Nørgaard. The movie is based on the novel by Jussi Adler-Olsen. It is the first film in the Department Q film series, followed by  The Absent One (2014) and A Conspiracy of Faith (2016).

Synopsis
Carl Mørck is demoted to Department Q, the cold case unit, after a raid he instigated goes wrong. One case, a suspected suicide, piques his interest. His investigations suggest that the victim, a rising politician named Merete Lynnggard, was actually kidnapped. Mørck ruffles feathers and is told to halt the investigation, but he and his assistant Assad persist.
As the duo investigate the case further, they get into trouble with Swedish police and are suspended, but they still continue to persevere in their investigation. Lynnggard is revealed to be imprisoned in a pressure chamber by a vengeful chef named Larsa.Carl and Assad locate the pressure chamber and rescue Lynnggard as she is about to die, and they arrest Larsa. Because of their action and the prominence of the case, the police chief reinstates the duo as detectives.

Cast and characters
Nikolaj Lie Kaas as Carl Mørck
Fares Fares as Assad
Sonja Richter as Merete Lynggaard
Mikkel Følsgaard as Uffe Lynggaard
Søren Pilmark as Marcus Jacobsen
Troels Lyby as Hardy Henningsen
Patricia Schumann as Søs Norup
Eric Ericson as Johan Lundquist

Release
The film was first shown at the Gothenburg Film Festival in January 2013, followed by several more film festivals before its cinema release in Denmark on 3 October 2013. The film topped the local box office in 2013 with 725,000 Danish moviegoers buying tickets.
Passage 6:
The Other Half (2016 film)
The Other Half is a 2016 Canadian romantic drama film, written and directed by Joey Klein. It stars Tatiana Maslany, Tom Cullen, Henry Czerny, and Suzanne Clément. The film had its world premiere at South by Southwest on 12 March 2016.

Premise
A bipolar woman and grief-stricken man struggle to live a simple life.

Cast
Tatiana Maslany as Emily
Tom Cullen as Nickie
Henry Czerny as Jacob
Suzanne Clément as Marie
Mark Rendall as Sammy
Diana Bentley as Kristin
Deragh Campbell as Anna
Nancy Palk as Katherine
Kaleb Alexander as Johnny
Zachary Hillard-Forde as Tommy
Emmanuel Kabongo as Officer James

Production
In July 2015, it was revealed that Joey Klein would write and direct the film, with Tatiana Maslany, Tom Cullen, Suzanne Clément, Deragh Campbell, and Mark Rendall starring in the film.

Release
The film had its world premiere at South by Southwest on 12 March 2016. Mongrel Media distributed the film in Canada, releasing it on 2 December 2016.

Reception
The film received positive critical reviews. On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, it has an approval rating of 78% based on 18 reviews, with an average rating of 6.9/10. On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 60 out of 100, based on 9 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".The Los Angeles Times said that the film is "a granular depiction of trauma, illness and protectiveness disguised as a love story and guided by a pair of intense portrayals", and that, "as it plays out, it’s only a hard road for these swept-up, damaged lovers, whom Klein and his actors treat with blessedly non-exploitative honesty." Variety wrote, "What might have seemed pro forma on paper overcomes its occasionally studied stylistic tics to become a troubled, anguished love story that neither exaggerates nor soft-pedals the demons on display."The Toronto Star praised Klein, saying that he "creates a mood of tension, foreboding and sombre reflection through occasional moments of slo-mo and camera work that blurs reality. His literate script offers no easy resolution, only the faint hope that love can rescue two lost souls."
Passage 7:
The Other Half (1919 film)
The Other Half is a 1919 American drama film directed by King Vidor. Produced by the Brentwood Corporation, the film starred Vidor’s wife Florence Vidor and featured comedienne Zasu Pitts.The picture is the third of four Christian Science-influenced films that represent a brief phase in Vidor’s output,  championing the superiority of self-healing through moral strength and supplemented by the benefits of rural living.
In February 2020, the film was shown at the 70th Berlin International Film Festival, as part of a retrospective dedicated to King Vidor's career.

Plot
As described in a film magazine, Captain Donald Trent (Meredith), whose father owns the mills that are the chief industry of the small town, returns from service in the American Expeditionary Forces in France with a clear vision of humanity and humanity's rights, deciding to start work in the plant at the bottom. With him returns Corporal Jimmy Davis (Butler) who takes back his old job at the mill. Donald's sweetheart Katherine (Vidor) comes around, as does Jennie Jones, The Jazz Kid (Pitts), making up the quartet. Then Trent Sr. (Allen) dies and Donald becomes manager of the mills, quickly losing his new found views. After an accident at the mills blinds Jimmy, Donald refuses to see him. Katherine, through the editorial pages of a newspaper she has purchased, reaches Donald's heart with her columns, and brings the quartet back together in unity and happiness.

Cast
Florence Vidor as Katherine Boone
Charles Meredith as Donald Trent
ZaSu Pitts as Jennie Jones, The Jazz Kid
David Butler as Cpl. Jimmy Davis
Alfred Allen as J. Martin Trent
Frances Raymond as Mrs. Boone
Hugh Saxon as James Bradley
Thomas Jefferson as Caleb Fairman

Footnotes
Passage 8:
Port of Lost Dreams
Port of Lost Dreams is a 1934 American drama film directed by Frank R. Strayer and starring William Boyd, Lola Lane and George F. Marion.

Cast
William Boyd as Lars Christensen
Lola Lane as Molly Deshon / Molly Clark Christensen
George F. Marion as Capt. Morgan Rock
Edward Gargan as Porky the Freda's 'Crew'
Harold Huber as Louis Constolos
Robert Elliott as Lt. Andersen
Evelyn Carter Carrington as Mother McGee, Bar Owner
Charles C. Wilson as Warden
Robert Frazer as Radio Announcer
Lafe McKee as Justice of the Peace
Lew Kelly as First Hospital Detective
Eddie Phillips as Constolos' Lawyer
Passage 9:
Island of Lost Souls (2007 film)
Island of Lost Souls (Danish: De fortabte sjæles ø) is a 2007 Danish fantasy film directed by Nikolaj Arcel.

Plot
The 14-year-old protagonist Lulu moves to a small provincial town with her mother and little brother, where she gets bored and dreams of a more magical world. Suddenly, the little brother is possessed by a spirit. With the help from a rich kid named Oliver, and Ricard, disillusioned clairvoyant and inventor, they fight the dark forces hiding on the island of the lost souls.

Cast
Sara Langebæk Gaarmann - Lulu
Lucas Munk Billing - Sylvester
Lasse Borg - Oliver
Nicolaj Kopernikus - Richard
Lars Mikkelsen - Necromancer
Anette Støvelbæk - Beate

External links
Island of Lost Souls at IMDb
Island of Lost Souls in the Danish Film Database
Passage 10:
Spy Kids
Spy Kids is an American family action-adventure spy comedy franchise created by Robert Rodriguez. The plot follows adventures of Carmen and Juni Cortez, two children who become involved in their parents' espionage organization. The films include Latino themes, as Rodriguez is of Mexican descent.

Background
Influences
Spy Kids was influenced by James Bond films. The first film was "a fusion of Willy Wonka and James Bond" and the second was the "Mysterious Island and James Bond mix".
The spy organization in the films is called the OSS. These initials are from the Office of Strategic Services, a former U.S. intelligence organization during World War II which later evolved into the CIA. The character Donnagon Giggles was named after William Joseph Donovan, the director of the original OSS. The initials in the Spy Kids universe are never specified on screen, but, in one of the books, they stand for the Organization of Super Spies.

Themes
One of the main themes of Spy Kids is the unity of family. The children have adult responsibilities, and a lesson is that keeping secrets from family members can have a negative effect on relationships. The first film also deals extensively with sibling rivalry and the responsibility of older children. There is also a strong sense of Latino heritage.

Technical innovations
The other films were shot with High Definition digital video, parts of the third film using an anaglyphic process to create the 3-D effect. Audiences were given red/blue 3D glasses with their tickets in movie theatres. Four sets of these glasses were also included in the DVD release. The third film was used as a test for a special Texas Instruments digital projector which can project polarized 3D, which does not require the red-blue lenses, later reused for The Adventures of Sharkboy and Lavagirl in 3-D (2005).

Films
Spy Kids (2001)
After retiring from espionage for ten years, Gregorio and Ingrid (Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino) are pulled back into duty for their important assignment despite the fact they were out of practice, and were captured. Their two children, Carmen and Juni (Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara), stay with their uncle Felix Gumm (Cheech Marin) and discover the truth of their parents' past, which they had neglected to tell them because they were afraid that if they knew, they would picture danger at every corner; and decide to rescue them. On their first mission, Carmen and Juni manage to bring around their estranged uncle, Isador "Machete" Cortez (Danny Trejo), a genius gadget inventor and Juni helps to redeem a TV show host named Fegan Floop (Alan Cumming). Together, Carmen and Juni thwart the plan of Floop's notorious second in-command Alexander Minion (Tony Shalhoub) to develop an army of androids resembling young children (including Carmen and Juni themselves) for a mastermind named Mr. Lisp (Robert Patrick) and his partner Ms. Gradenko (Teri Hatcher). The robots based on Carmen and Juni became part of Floop's show.

Spy Kids 2: The Island of Lost Dreams (2002)
As agents of the OSS, Carmen and Juni try to save the daughter (Taylor Momsen) of The President Of The United States (Christopher McDonald) while facing a particularly hard competition with Gary and Gerti Giggles (Matt O'Leary and Emily Osment), the two children of a double-dealing agent Donnagon Giggles (Mike Judge), whom Carmen and Juni helped to rescue them from the first film. Juni gets fired from the OSS after fighting with Gary over a smaller version of the transmooker, a device that can shut off all electronic devices even though it was Gary who started the fight. Juni loses his spot for the best spy kid of the year award, while Donnagon plans to steal the transmooker to take over the world. On their second mission, Carmen and Juni follow the trail to the mysterious island of Leeke Leeke which is home to Romero (Steve Buscemi), an eccentric scientist who attempted to create genetically miniaturised animals, but instead ended up with his island inhabited by mutant monsters. Eventually, Donnagon is fired and Gary is suspended, and the transmooker is destroyed. Juni is offered his job back, but in order to take a break from the OSS, he retires to start his own private eye agency.

Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over (2003)
After retiring from the OSS, Juni is thrust back into service when an evil mastermind named Sebastian "The Toymaker" (Sylvester Stallone) creates a fictional video game called Game Over, which hypnotizes its users. Carmen was sent on a mission to disable the game, but disappeared on Level 4. With the help of his maternal grandfather, Valentin Avellan (Ricardo Montalban), who uses a wheelchair, Juni is sent after Carmen and helps her to disable the game in order to save the world. It is revealed that Sebastian was the one who disabled Valentin in the first place. Instead of avenging his former partner, Valentin forgives Sebastian who is redeemed.

Spy Kids: All the Time in the World (2011)
The OSS has become the world's top spy agency, while the Spy Kids department has become defunct. A retired spy Marissa (Jessica Alba) is thrown back into the action along with her two stepchildren, Rebecca and Cecil (Rowan Blanchard and Mason Cook), when a maniacal Timekeeper (Jeremy Piven) attempts to take over the world. In order to save the world, Rebecca and Cecil must team up with Marissa.

Spy Kids: Armageddon (2023)
The fifth installment, Spy Kids: Armageddon, serving as a reboot of the franchise, is in development, with a film involving a plot that centers around a multicultural family. Robert Rodriguez again serves as writer/director, while the project is a joint-venture production between Skydance Media and Spyglass Media Group. The film is scheduled for distribution on Netflix, making it the second Spy Kids project produced for the platform. Gina Rodriguez, Zachary Levi, Everly Carganilla and Connor Esterson were set to star, along with Billy Magnussen and D. J. Cotrona. The plotline for the film is as follows: "When the children of the world's greatest secret agents unwittingly help a powerful Game Developer unleash a computer virus that gives him control of all technology, they must become spies themselves to save their parents and the world". Production of the film wrapped in late August 2022, and is set to be released on Netflix in Q3-Q4 2023.

Television
Spy Kids: Mission Critical (2018)
An animated series based on the films, Spy Kids: Mission Critical, was released on Netflix in 2018. The first and second seasons both consist of 10 episodes and is produced by Mainframe Studios. Robert Rodriguez served as one of the executive producers on the show.

Main cast and characters
Additional crew and production details
Reception
Box office performance
Critical and public response
Though the first and second film received positive reviews, the series experienced a steadily declining critical reception with each film.

Home media
September 18, 2001 (Spy Kids) on DVD by Buena Vista Home Entertainment
February 18, 2003 (Spy Kids 2: The Island of Lost Dreams) on DVD by Buena Vista Home Entertainment
February 24, 2004 (Spy Kids 3D: Game Over) on DVD by Buena Vista Home Entertainment
August 2, 2011 (Spy Kids, Spy Kids 2: The Island of Lost Dreams, and Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over) on DVD and Blu-ray Disc by Lionsgate (However, all 3 DVDs are still the original Buena Vista Home Entertainment copies.)
November 15, 2011 (Spy Kids, Spy Kids 2: The Island of Lost Dreams, and Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over Triple Feature) on Blu-ray Disc by Lionsgate
November 22, 2011 (Spy Kids: All the Time in the World) on DVD and Blu-ray by Anchor Bay Entertainment
December 4, 2012 (Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over, The Adventures of Sharkboy and Lavagirl in 3-D 3D Double Feature) on Blu-ray 3D Disc by Lionsgate
September 22, 2020 (Spy Kids, Spy Kids 2: The Island of Lost Dreams, and Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over Triple Feature) on DVD and Blu-ray Disc reissue by Paramount

Other media
Video games
Spy Kids Challenger (Game Boy Advance)
Spy Kids Mega Mission Zone (PC/Mac)
Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over (Game Boy Advance and PC/Mac)
Spy Kids: Learning Adventures series (PC/Mac)
Spy Kids: All the Time in the World (Nintendo DS)

See also
Related film series
Isador "Machete" Cortez, who appeared in all four Spy Kids film series as a supporting character, additionally had a series of two stand-alone films: Machete and Machete Kills, also written and directed by Robert Rodriguez. However, the Machete films share little in common with the Spy Kids films thematically and are not considered direct spin-offs, the first film instead being an adult-oriented action exploitation film, with the second film introducing science fiction elements; both films additionally share several cast members and characters with the Spy Kids films. The idea for a Machete film came from a fake trailer promoting the Grindhouse double-feature by Rodriguez and Quentin Tarantino. Trejo and Rodriguez have made two conflicting statements regarding its canonicity to the Spy Kids films; Trejo claimed that the films depict "what Uncle Machete does when he's not taking care of the kids", while Rodriguez said in a Reddit AMA that they are alternate universes. Regardless, Rodriguez claimed that he was prompted by an incident on the set of the first Machete film to start envisioning a fourth film in the main Spy Kids film series, casting Jessica Alba as Machete's sister Marissa, a different character to the one she portrayed in Machete, with Trejo additionally reprising his role alongside her.

Notes