Passage 1:
Obata Toramori
Obata Toramori (小畠虎盛, 1491 – July 14, 1561) was Japanese samurai warrior of the Sengoku Period. He is known as one of the "Twenty-Four Generals of Takeda Shingen" 
He also recorded as having been wounded 41 times in 36 encounters. 
He was the father of Obata Masamori.

See also
Isao Obata
Passage 2:
Inoue Masaru (bureaucrat)
Viscount Inoue Masaru (井上 勝, August 25, 1843 – August 2, 1910) was the first Director of Railways in Japan and is known as the "father of the Japanese railways".

Biography
He was born into the Chōshū clan at Hagi, Yamaguchi, the son of Katsuyuki Inoue. He was briefly adopted into the Nomura family and became known as Nomura Yakichi, though he was later restored to the Inoue family.
Masaru Inoue was brought up as the son of a samurai belonging to the Chōshū fief. At 15, he entered the Nagasaki Naval Academy established by the Tokugawa shogunate under the direction of a Dutch naval officer. In 1863, Inoue and four friends from the Chōshū clan stowed away on a vessel to the United Kingdom. He studied civil engineering and mining at University College London and returned to Japan in 1868. After working for the government as a technical officer supervising the mining industry, he was appointed Director of the Railway Board in 1871. Inoue played a leading role in Japan's railway planning and construction, including the construction of the Nakasendo Railway, the selection of the alternative route (Tokaido), and the proposals for future mainline railway networks.In 1891 Masaru Inoue founded Koiwai Farm with Yanosuke Iwasaki and Shin Onogi.  After retirement from the government, Inoue founded Kisha Seizo Kaisha, the first locomotive manufacturer in Japan, becoming its first president in 1896. In 1909 he was appointed President of the Imperial Railway Association. He died of an illness in London in 1910, during an official visit on behalf of the Ministry of Railways.

Honors
Inoue and his friends later came to be known as the Chōshū Five. To commemorate their stay in London, two scholarships, known as the Inoue Masaru Scholarships, are available each session under the University College London 1863 Japan Scholarships scheme to enable University College students to study at a Japanese University. The value of the scholarships are £3000 each.

His tomb is in the triangular area of land where the Tōkaidō Main Line meets the Tōkaidō Shinkansen in Kita-Shinagawa.

Chōshū Five
These are the four other members of the "Chōshū Five":

Itō Shunsuke (later Itō Hirobumii)
Inoue Monta (later Inoue Kaoru)
Yamao Yōzō who later studied engineering at the Andersonian Institute, Glasgow, 1866-68 while working at the shipyards by day
Endō Kinsuke

See also
Japanese students in Britain
Statue of Inoue Masaru
Passage 3:
John Templeton (botanist)
John Templeton (1766–1825) was a pioneering Irish naturalist, sometimes referred to as the "Father of Irish Botany". He was a leading figure in Belfast's late eighteenth century enlightenment, initially supported the  United Irishmen, and figured prominently in the town's scientific and literary societies.

Family
Templeton was born in Belfast in 1766, the son of James Templeton, a prosperous wholesale merchant, and his wife Mary Eleanor, daughter of Benjamin Legg, a sugar refiner. The family resided in a 17th century country house to the south of the town, which been named Orange Grove in honour of William of Orange who had stopped at the house en route to his victory over James II at the Battle of the Boyne in 1690.Until the age of 16 Templeton attended a progressive, co-educational, school favoured by the town's liberal, largely Presbyterian, merchant class. Schoolmaster David Manson sought to exclude "drudgery and fear" by combining classroom instruction with play and experiential learning. Templeton counted among his schoolfellows brother and sister Henry Joy and Mary Ann McCracken, and maintained a warm friendship with them throughout his life.In 1799, Templeton married Katherine Johnson of Seymour Hill. Her family had been touched by the United Irish rebellion the previous year: her brother-in-law, Henry Munro, commander of the United army at the Battle of Ballynahinch, had been hanged. The couple had five children: Ellen, born on 30 September 1800, Robert, born on 12 December 1802, Catherine, born on 19 July 1806, Mary, born on 9 December 1809 and Matilda on 2 November 1813.
The union between the two already prosperous merchant families provided more than ample means enabling Templeton to devote himself passionately to the study of natural history.

United Irishman
Like many of his liberal Presbyterian peers in Belfast, Templeton was sympathetic to the programme and aims of the Society United Irishmen:  Catholic Emancipation and democratic reform of the Irish Parliament. But it was several years before he was persuaded to take the United Irish "test" or pledge. In March 1797 his friend, Mary Ann McCracken, wrote to her brother: [A] certain Botanical friend of ours whose steady and inflexible mind is invulnerable to any other weapon but reason, and only to be moved by conviction has at last turned his attention from the vegetable kingdom to the human species and after pondering the matter for some months, is at last determined to become what he ought to have been months ago.
She hoped his sisters would "soon follow him." Having committed himself to the patriotic union of Catholic, Protestant and Dissenter, Templeton changed the name of the family home from loyalist Orange Grove to Irish "Cranmore" (crann mór, 'big tree').
Templeton was disenchanted by the Rebellion of 1798, and mindful of events in France , repelled by the violence. He nonetheless withdrew from the Belfast Literary Society, of which he had been a founding member in 1801, rather than accept the continued presence of Dr. James MacDonnell. MacDonnell's offence had been to subscribe forty guineas in 1803 for the capture (leading to execution) of the unreformed rebel Thomas Russell who had been their mutual friend. (While unable to "forget the amiable Russell", time, he conceded,  "softened a little my feelings": in 1825, Templeton and MacDonnell met and shook hands).

Garden
The garden at Cranmore spread over 13-acre garden was planted with exotic and native species acquired on botanical excursions, from fellow botanists, nurseries, botanical gardens and abroad: "Received yesterday a large chest of East Indian plants which I examined today." "Box from Mr. Taylor".Other plants arrived, often as seeds from North America, Australia, India, China and other parts of the British Empire  Cranmore also served as a small animal farm.for experimental animal husbandry and a kitchen garden.

Botanist
John Templeton's interest in botany began with this experimental garden laid out according to a suggestion in Rousseau's 'Nouvelle Heloise' and following Rousseau's 'Letters on the Elements of Botany Here he cultivated many tender exotics out of doors (a list provided by Nelson and began botanical studies which lasted throughout his life and corresponded with the most eminent botanists in England Sir William Hooker, William Turner, James Sowerby and, especially Sir Joseph Banks, who had travelled on Captain James Cook's voyages, and in charge of Kew Gardens. Banks tried (unsuccessfully) to tempt him to New Holland (Australia) as a botanist on the Flinders's Expedition with the offer of a large tract of land and a substantial salary. An associate of the Linnean Society, Templeton visited London and saw the botanical work being achieved there. This led to his promotion of the Belfast Botanic Gardens as early as 1809, and to work on a Catalogue of Native Irish Plants, in manuscript form and now in the Royal Irish Academy, which was used as an accurate foundation for later work by succeeding Irish botanists. He also assembled text and executed many beautiful watercolour drawings for a Flora Hibernica, sadly never finished, and kept a detailed journal during the years 1806–1825 (both now in the Ulster Museum, Belfast).[1] Of the 12000 algal specimens in the Ulster Museum Herbarium about 148 are in the Templeton collection and were mostly collected by him, some were collected by others and passed to Templeton. The specimens in the Templeton collection in the Ulster Museum (BEL) have been catalogued. Those noted in 1967 were numbered: F1 – F48. Others were in The Queen's University Belfast. All of Templeton's specimens have now been numbered in the Ulster Museum as follows: F190 – F264; F290 – F314 and F333 – F334.
Templeton was the first finder of Rosa hibernicaThis rose, although collected by Templeton in 1795, remained undescribed until 1803 when he published a short diagnosis in the Transactions of the Dublin Society.

Early additions to the flora of Ireland include Sisymbrium Ligusticum seoticum (1793), Adoxa moschatellina (1820), Orobanche rubra and many other plants. His work on lichens was the basis of this secton of Flora Hiberica by James Townsend Mackay who wrote of him The foregoing account of the Lichens of Ireland would have been still more incomplete, but for the extensive collection of my lamented friend, the late Mr. John Templeton, of Cranmore, near Belfast, which his relict, Mrs. Templeton, most liberally placed at my disposal. I believe that thirty years ago his acquirements in the Natural History of organised beings rivalled that of any individual in Europe : these were by no means limited to diagnostic marks, but extended to all the laws and modifications of the living force. The frequent quotation of his authority in every preceding department of this Flora, is but a brief testimony of his diversified knowledge

Botanical Manuscripts
The MSS. left by Templeton consist of seven volumes. One of these is a small 8vo. half bound ; it is in the Library of the Royal Irish Academy, and contains 280 pp. of lists of Cryptogams, chiefly mosses, with their localities. In this book is inserted a letter from Miss F. M. More, sister of Alexander Goodman More, to Dr. Edward Perceval Wright, Secretary, Royal Irish Academy, dated March, 1897, in which she says—‘*‘ The Manuscript which accompanies this letter was drawn up between 1794 and 1810, by the eminent naturalist, John Templeton, in Belfast. It was lent by his son, Dr. R. Templeton, to my brother, Alex. G. More, when he was preparing the second edition of the ‘ Cybele Hibernica,’ on condition that it should be placed in the Library of the Royal Irish Academy afterwards." The other six volumes are quarto size, and contain 1,090 folios, with descriptions of many of the plants, and careful drawings in pen and pencil and colours of many species. They are now lent to the Belfast Museum. About ten years ago I [Lett]spent a week in examining these volumes, and as their contents have hitherto never been fully described, I would like to give an epitome of my investigation of them.

Vol. 1.—Phanerogams, 186 folios, with 15 coloured figures, and 6 small drawings in the text.
Vol. Il.—Fresh-water Algae, 246 folios, 71 of which are coloured.
Vol.IIl.—Marine Algae, 212 folios, of which 79 are coloured figures. At the end of this volume are 3 folios of Mosses, the pagination of which runs with the rest of this volume, but it is evident they had at some time been misplaced.
Vol. IV Fungi, 112 folios.
Vol. V.—Mosses, 117 folios, of which 20 are coloured, and also 73 small drawings in the text. *Vol. VI.—Mosses and Hepatics. 117 folios are Hepatics, 40 of which are in colours ; 96 folios are Mosses, of which 39 are full-page coloured figures; and in addition there are 3 small coloured drawings in the text.All these drawings were executed by Templeton himself, they are every one most accurately and beautifully drawn; and the colouring is true to nature and artistically finished; those of the mosses and hepatics being particularly good. Templeton is not mentioned in Tate’s ‘‘ Flora Belfastiensis,’ published in 1863, at Belfast. The earliest published reference to his MSS. is in the "* Flora of Ulster," by Dickie, published in 1864, where there is this indefinite allusion—‘* To the friends of the late Mr. Templeton I am indebted for permission to take notes of species recorded in his manuscript." The MS. was most likely the small volume now in the Royal Irish Academy Library. In the introduction to the "*‘ Flora of the North-east of Ireland"’ (1888), there is a brief biographical sketch of Templeton, but no mention of any MS. However, in a ‘‘ Supplement" to the Flora (1894), there is this note— ‘* Templeton, John, four volumes of his ‘ Flora Hibernica’ at present deposited with the Belfast Natural History and Philosophical Society, contain much original matter, which could not be worked out in time for the present paper." This fixes the approximate date of the MSS. being loaned to the Belfast Museum. They were not known to the authors of the ‘‘ Cybele Hibernica’"’ in 1866, while in the second edition (1898) the small volume of the MSS. in R.1.A. Library is described in the Index of Authors under its full title—Catalogue of the Native Plants of Ireland, by John Templeton, A.L.S.

Notable plant finds
Antrim:Northern beech fern Glenaan River, Cushendall 1809: intermediate wintergreen Sixmilewater 1794: heath pearlwort :Muck Island Islandmagee  1804: dwarf willow Slievenanee Mountain 1809: thin-leaf brookweed beside River Lagan in its tidal reaches – gone now 1797: Dovedale moss Cave Hill 1797: Arctic root Slemish Mountain pre 1825: Cornish moneywort  formerly cultivated at Cranmore, Malone Road, Belfast1 pre-1825 J. persisted to 1947: rock whitebeam  basalt cliffs of the Little Deerpark, Glenarm 15 July 1808: yellow meadow rue Portmore Lough 1800:  Moschatel Mountcollyer Deerpark 2 May 1820 , Bearberry  Fair Head pre 1825, Sea Bindweed Bushfoot dunes pre 1825,  Flixweed , 'Among the ruins of Carrickfergus I found Sisymbrium Sophia in plenty' 2 Sept. 1812 – Journal of J. Templeton J4187, Needle Spike-rush Broadwater pre 1825, Dwarf Spurge Lambeg gravel pit 1804, Large-flowered Hemp-nettle, Glenarm  pre 1825
Down:
Field Gentian Slieve Donard 1796: Lesser Twayblade Newtonards Park pre 1825:  Rough poppy 15 July 1797: Six-stamened Waterwort Castlewellan Lake 1808: Great Sundew going to the mountains from Kilkeel 19 August 1808: Hairy Rock-cress Dundrum Castle 1797: Intermediate Wintergree Moneygreer Bog 1797 Cowslip Holywood Warren pre 1825 long gone since: Water-violet Crossgar 7th July 1810 Scots Lovage Bangor Bay 1809, Mountain Everlasting  Newtownards 1793, Frogbit boghole near Portaferry, Parsley fern, Slieve Binnian, Mourne Mountains  19 August 1808, Bog-rosemary Wolf Island Bog 1794,  Marsh Pea Lough Neagh
Fermanagh: Marsh Helleborine

Natural History of Ireland
John Templeton had wide-ranging scientific interests including chemistry as it applied to agriculture and horticulture, meteorology and phenology following Robert Marsham. He published very little aside from monthly reports on natural history and meteorology in the 'Belfast Magazine' commenced in 1808. John Templeton studied birds extensively, collected shells, marine organisms (especially "Zoophytes") and insects, notably garden pest species. He planned a 'Hibernian Fauna' to accompany 'Hibernian Flora'. This was not published, even in part, but A catalogue of the species annulose animals and of rayed ones found in Ireland as selected from the papers of the late J Templeton Esq. of Cranmore with localities, descriptions, and illustrations Mag. Nat. Hist. 9: 233- 240; 301 305; 417–421; 466 -472[2], 1836.  Catalogue of Irish Crustacea, Myriapoda and Arachnoida, selected from the papers of the late John Templeton Esq. Mag. Nat. Hist. 9: 9–14 [3].and 1837 Irish Vertebrate animals selected from the papers of the late. John Templeton Esq Mag. Nat. Hist . 1: (n. s.): 403–413 403 -413 were (collated and edited By Robert Templeton). Much of his work was used by later authors, especially by William Thompson whose 'The Natural History of Ireland' is its essential continuation.

Dublin
Templeton was a regular visitor to the elegant Georgian city of Dublin (by 1816 the journey was completed in one day in a wellington coach with 4 passengers) and he was a Member of the Royal Dublin Society.By his death in 1825 the Society had established a Botanic at Glasnevin "with the following sections:
1 The Linnaean garden, which contains two divisions, - Herbaceous plants, and shrub-fruit; and forest-tree plants.
2. Garden arranged on the system of Jussieu. 3. Garden of Indigenous plants (to Ireland), disposed according to the system of Linnaeus. 4. Kitchen Garden, where six apprentices are constantly employed, who receive a complete knowledge of systematic botany. 5. Medicinal plants. 6. Plants eaten, or rejected, by cattle. 7. Plants used in rural economy. 8. Plants used in dyeing. 9. Rock plants. 10. Aquatic and marsh plants. - For which an artificial marsh has been formed. 11. Cryptogamics. 12. Flower garden, besides extensive hot-houses, and a conservatory for exotics".
Other associations were with Leinster House housing the RDS Museum and Library.
"Second Room. Here the animal kingdom is displayed, arranged in six classes. 1. Mammalia. 2. Aves. 3. Amphibia. 4. Pisces. 5. Insectae. 6. Vermes. Here is a great variety of shells, butterflies and beetles, and of the most beautiful species" and the Leske collection.
The library at Leinster House held 12,000 books and was particularly rich in  works on botany; "amongst which is a very valuable work in four large folio volumes, "Gramitia Austriaca" [Austriacorum Icones et descriptions graminum]; by Nicholas Thomas Host".Templeton was also associated with theFarming Society funded 1800, the 
Kirwanian Society  founded 1812, Marsh's Library, Trinity College Botanic Garden. Four acres supplied with both exotic and indigenous plants,the Trinity Library (80,000 volumes) and Trinity Museum.Also the Museum of the College of Surgeons.

Death and legacy
Never of strong constitution, he was not expected to survive, he was in failing health from 1815 and died in 1825 aged only 60, "leaving a sorrowing wife, youthful family and many friends and townsmen who greatly mourned his death". The Australian leguminous genus Templetonia is named for him.
In 1810 Templeton had supported the veteran United Irishman, William Drennan, in the foundation of the Belfast Academical Institution. With the staff and scholars of the Institution's early Collegiate Department, he then helped form the Belfast Natural History and Philosophical Society (the origin of both the Botanical Gardens and what is now the Ulster Museum).
Although always ready to communicate his own findings, Templeton did not publish much. Robert Lloyd Praeger (1865-1953), editor of the Irish Naturalist and President of the Royal Irish Academy, described him nonetheless as "the most eminent naturalist Ireland has produced".Templeton's son, Robert Templeton (1802-1892), educated at the Belfast Academical Institution (which was eventually to acquire Cranmore House), became an entomologist renowned for his work on Sri Lankan arthropods. Robert's fellow pupil James Emerson Tennent went on to write Ceylon, Physical, Historical and Topographical

Contacts
Thomas Martyn From 1794 supplied Martyn with many remarks on cultivation for Martyn's edition of Miller's Gardener's Dictionary.
George Shaw
James Edward Smith Contributions to English Botany and Flora Britannica
James Lee
Samuel Goodenough
Aylmer Bourke Lambert
James Sowerby
William Curtis
Joseph Banks
Robert Brown.
Lewis Weston Dillwyn's Contributions to British Confervæ (1802–07)
Dawson Turner Contributions to British Fuci (1802), and Muscologia Hibernica (1804).
John Walker
Francis Rawdon-Hastings, 1st Marquess of Hastings
John Foster, 1st Baron Oriel
Jonathan Stokes
Walter Wade

Other
John Templeton maintained a natural history cabinet containing specimens from Calobar, New Holland and The Carolinas as well as is Ireland cabinets. His library included Rees's Cyclopædia and works by Carl Linnaeus, Edward Donovan and William Swainson s:Zoological Illustrationsand he used a John Dollond microscope and lenses. He made a tour of Scotland with Henry MacKinnon. His diaries record the Comet of 1807 and the Great Comet of 1811.

Gallery
|

See also
Late Enlightenment
James Townsend Mackay
Passage 4:
Arthur Beauchamp
Arthur Beauchamp (1827 – 28 April 1910) was a Member of Parliament from New Zealand. He is remembered as the father of Harold Beauchamp, who rose to fame as chairman of the Bank of New Zealand and was the father of writer Katherine Mansfield.

Biography
Beauchamp came to Nelson from Australia on the Lalla Rookh, arriving on 23 February 1861.He lived much of his life in a number of locations around the top of the South Island, also Whanganui when Harold was 11 for seven years and then to the capital (Wellington). Then south to Christchurch and finally Picton and the Sounds. He had business failures and was bankrupted twice, in 1879 and 1884. He married Mary Stanley on the Victorian goldfields in 1854; Arthur and Mary lived in 18 locations over half a century, and are buried in Picton. Six of their ten children born between 1855 and 1893 died, including the first two sons born before Harold.Beauchamp represented the Picton electorate from 1866 to 1867, when he resigned.  He had the energy and sociability required for politics, but not the private income then required to be a parliamentarian. He supported the working man and the subdivision of big estates, opposed the confiscation of Māori land and was later recognised as a founding Liberal, the party that Harold supported and was a "fixer" for. Yska calls their life an extended chronicle of rootlessness, business failure and almost ceaseless family tragedy and Harold called his father a rolling stone by instinct. Arthur also served on the council of Marlborough Province and is best-remembered for a 10-hour speech to that body when an attempt was made to relocate the capital from Picton to Blenheim.In 1866 he attempted to sue the Speaker of the House, David Monro. At the time the extent of privilege held by Members of Parliament was unclear; a select committee ruled that the case could proceed, but with a stay until after the parliamentary session.

See also
Yska, Redmer (2017). A Strange Beautiful Excitement: Katherine Mansfield's Wellington 1888-1903. Dunedin: Otago University Press. pp. 91–99. ISBN 978-0-947522-54-4.
Passage 5:
Takayama Tomoteru
Takayama Tomoteru (高山友照) (1531–1596) was a Japanese samurai of the Azuchi–Momoyama period, who served Matsunaga Hisahide.
He was the father of Takayama Ukon, and was a Kirishitan.
Passage 6:
Eystein Glumra
Eystein Glumra ("Eystein the Noisy" or "Eystein the Clatterer"; Modern Norwegian Øystein Glumra), also known as Eystein Ivarsson, was reputedly a petty king on the west coast of Norway during the 9th century.
The Heimskringla saga states that Eystein Glumra was the father of Rognvald Eysteinsson and Sigurd Eysteinsson: "The first earl of the Orkney Islands was ... Sigurd ... a son of Eystein Glumra, and brother of Ragnvald earl of More. After Sigurd, his son Guthorm was earl for one year. After him Torf-Einar, a son of Ragnvald ... was long earl, and was a man of great power".
According to the Orkneyinga saga, Eystein Glumra was the son of Ivar Halfdansson and grandson of Halfdan the Old. The Orkneyinga Saga also named Eystein Glumra as the father of Rognvald Eysteinsson: "Heiti, Gorr's son, was father of Sveiði the sea-king, [who was] the father of Halfdan the old, [who was] the father of Ivar the Uplanders' earl, [who was] the father of Eystein the noisy, [who was] the father of earl Rognvald the mighty and wise in council".
Two novels by Linnea Hartsuyker, The Half-Drowned King (2017) and The Sea Queen (2018), cover the lives of Eystein's children.
Passage 7:
Anacyndaraxes
Anacyndaraxes (Greek: Ἀνακυνδαράξης) was the father of Sardanapalus, king of Assyria.

Notes

 This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Smith, William, ed. (1870). "Anacyndaraxes". Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology. Vol. 1. p. 157-158.
Passage 8:
Giorgio Ordelaffi
Giorgio Ordelaffi (died 1423) was lord of Forlì and Papal vicar in Romagna (northern Italy). He was a member of the Ordelaffi family.
The son of Teobaldo Ordelaffi, he married Lucrezia Alidosi of the Alidosi family. He kept the seigniory of Forlì from 1411 until his death, moving his residence in the current Palazzo Comunale.
Just before his death, when his son Teobaldo II Ordelaffi was still young, he offered to Filippo Maria Visconti of Milan the occasion to invade Romagna in 1423, initiating the 30-year long Wars in Lombardy.
Passage 9:
Cleomenes II
Cleomenes II (Greek: Κλεομένης; died 309 BC) was king of Sparta from 370 to 309 BC. He was the second son of Cleombrotus I, and grandfather of Areus I, who succeeded him. Although he reigned for more than 60 years, his life is completely unknown, apart from a victory at the Pythian Games in 336 BC. Several theories have been suggested by modern historians to explain such inactivity, but none has gained consensus.

Life and reign
Cleomenes was the second son of king Cleombrotus I (r. 380–371), who belonged to the Agiad dynasty, one of the two royal families of Sparta (the other being the Eurypontids). Cleombrotus died fighting Thebes at the famous Battle of Leuctra in 371. His eldest son Agesipolis II succeeded him, but he died soon after in 370. Cleomenes' reign was instead exceptionally long, lasting 60 years and 10 months according to Diodorus of Sicily, a historian of the 1st century BC. In a second statement, Diodorus nevertheless tells that Cleomenes II reigned 34 years, but he confused him with his namesake Cleomenes I (r. 524–490).

Despite the outstanding length of his reign, very little can be said about Cleomenes. He has been described by modern historians as a "nonentity". Perhaps that the apparent weakness of Cleomenes inspired the negative opinion of the hereditary kingship at Sparta expressed by Aristotle in his Politics (written between 336 and 322). However, Cleomenes may have focused on internal politics within Sparta, because military duties were apparently given to the Eurypontid Agesilaus II (r. 400–c.360), Archidamus III (r. 360–338), and Agis III (r. 338–331). As the Spartans notably kept their policies secret from foreign eyes, it would explain the silence of ancient sources on Cleomenes. Another explanation is that his duties were assumed by his elder son Acrotatus, described as a military leader by Diodorus, who mentions him in the aftermath of the Battle of Megalopolis in 331, and again in 315.Cleomenes' only known deed was his chariot race victory at the Pythian Games in Delphi in 336. In the following autumn, he gave the small sum of 510 drachmas for the reconstruction of the Temple of Apollo at Delphi, which had been destroyed by an earthquake in 373. Cleomenes might have made this gift as a pretext to go to Delphi and engage in informal diplomacy with other Greek states, possibly to discuss the consequences of the recent assassination of the Macedonian king Philip II.One short witticism of Cleomenes regarding cockfighting is preserved in the Moralia, written by the philosopher Plutarch in the early 2nd century AD:
Somebody promised to give to Cleomenes cocks that would die fighting, but he retorted, "No, don't, but give me those that kill fighting."
As Acrotatus died before Cleomenes, the latter's grandson Areus I succeeded him while still very young, so Cleomenes' second son Cleonymus acted as regent until Areus' majority. Some modern scholars also give Cleomenes a daughter named Archidamia, who played an important role during Pyrrhus' invasion of the Peloponnese, but the age difference makes it unlikely.
Passage 10:
Teobaldo II Ordelaffi
Teobaldo II Ordelaffi (also known as Tebaldo, 1413–1425) was briefly lord of Forlì from 1422 to 1424. He was the son of Giorgio Ordelaffi.
Giorgio has named Filippo Maria Visconti of Milan as his trustee, but Teobaldo's mother Lucrezia degli Alidosi, appointed herself as regent. Spurred by Visconti, the Forliveses rebelled and called in the Milanese condottiero Agnolo della Pergola. Florence reacted and, after some initial setbacks, it was joined by Venice in 1425 thanks to the efforts of the Count of Carmagnola. The war moved to Lombardy, and Visconti ceded Forlì and Imola to Pope Martin V. The Ordelaffi would return in Forlì in 1433 with Antonio I.

See also
Wars in Lombardy