Passage 1:
Drew Esocoff
Drew Esocoff (born c. 1957) is an American television sports director, who as of 2006 has been the director of NBC Sunday Night Football.

Early life
Esocoff was born in Elizabeth, New Jersey, graduating from Thomas Jefferson High School in 1975, later attending Colgate University. While in college he worked as a substitute teacher at Elizabeth High School where one of his students was Todd Bowles.

Career
Esocoff has worked for ESPN and ABC, serving as director for Monday Night Football, SportsCenter, and the NBA Finals, as well as five Super Bowls. Since 2006, he has served as director for NBC Sunday Night Football.
As of 2015, Esocoff has won 11 Emmy Awards.
Passage 2:
G. Marthandan
G. Marthandan is an Indian film director who works in Malayalam cinema. His debut film is Daivathinte Swantham Cleetus

Early life
G. Marthandan was born to M. S. Gopalan Nair and P. Kamalamma at Changanassery in Kottayam district of Kerala. He did his schooling at NSS Boys School Changanassery and completed his bachelor's degree in Economics at NSS Hindu College, Changanassery.

Career
After completing his bachelor's degree, Marthandan entered films as an associate director with the unreleased film Swarnachamaram directed by Rajeevnath in 1995. His next work was British Market, directed by Nissar in 1998. He worked as an associate director for 18 years.He made his directional debut with Daivathinte Swantham Cleetus in 2013, starring Mammooty in the lead role. His next movie was in 2015, Acha Dhin, with Mammooty and Mansi Sharma in the lead roles. Daivathinte Swantham Cleetus and Paavada were box office successes.

Filmography
As director
As associate director
As actor
TV serialKanyadanam (Malayalam TV series) - pilot episode

Awards
Ramu Kariat Film Award - Paavada (2016)
JCI Foundation Award - Daivathinte Swantham Cleetus (2013)
Passage 3:
Abhishek Saxena
Abhishek Saxena is an Indian Bollywood and Punjabi film director who directed the movie Phullu. The Phullu movie was released in theaters on 16 June 2017, in which film Sharib Hashmi is the lead role. Apart from these, he has also directed Patiala Dreamz, this is a Punjabi film. This film was screened in cinemas in 2014.

Life and background
Abhishek Saxena was born on 19 September 1988 in the capital of India, Delhi, whose father's name is Mukesh Kumar Saxena. Abhishek Saxena married Ambica Sharma Saxena on 18 December 2014. His mother's name is Gurpreet Kaur Saxena.
Saxena started his career with a Punjabi film Patiala Dreamz, after which he has also directed a Hindi film Phullu, which has appeared in Indian cinemas on 16 June 2017.

Career
Abhishek Saxena made his film debut in 2011 as an assistant director on Doordarshan with Ashok Gaikwad. He made his first directed film Patiala Dreamz, this is a Punjabi movie.After this, he has also directed a Hindi film Phullu in 2017, which has been screened in cinemas on 16 June 2017. Saxena is now making his upcoming movie "India Gate".
In 2018 Abhishek Saxena has come up with topic of body-shaming in his upcoming movie Saroj ka Rishta.
 Where Sanah Kapoor will play the role of Saroj and actors Randeep Rai and Gaurav Pandey will play the two men in Saroj's life.Yeh Un Dinon ki Baat Hai lead Randeep Rai will make his Bollywood debut. Talking about the film, director Abhishek Saxena told Mumbai Mirror, "As a fat person, I have noticed that body-shaming doesn’t happen only with those who are on the heavier side, but also with thin people. The idea germinated from there."
Career as an Assistant DirectorApart from this, he has played the role of assistant director in many films and serials in the beginning of his career, in which he has a television serial in 2011, Doordarshan, as well as in 2011, he also assisted in a serial of Star Plus.
In addition to these serials, he played the role of assistant director in the movie "Girgit" which was made in Telugu language.

Filmography
As Director
Passage 4:
Mayor Muthanna
Mayor Muthanna is a 1969 Indian Kannada-language film directed by Siddalingaiah. The film stars Rajkumar and Bharathi. The film was Siddalingaiah's debut as a director and actor Dwarkish's first independent production venture who had earlier co- produced the 1966 movie Mamatheya Bandhana with 2 other people under Thunga Pictures. The sub-plot of the film regarding the salvaging of the sub-standard grain was inspired by the 1886 novel The Mayor of Casterbridge by Thomas Hardy. The movie was remade in Telugu in 1974 as Chairman Chalamayya starring Chalam.

Cast
Soundtrack
The music of the film was composed by the duo Rajan–Nagendra, with lyrics penned by Chi. Udaya Shankar.
Passage 5:
Ben Palmer
Ben Palmer (born 1976) is a British film and television director.
His television credits include the Channel 4 sketch show Bo' Selecta! (2002–2006), the second and third series of the E4 sitcom The Inbetweeners (2009–2010) and the Sky Atlantic comedy-drama Breeders (2020). Palmer has also directed films such as the Inbetweeners spin-off, The Inbetweeners Movie (2011) and the romantic comedy Man Up (2015).

Biography
Palmer was born and raised in Penny Bridge, Barrow-in-Furness. He attended Chetwynde School.His first directing job was the Channel 4 sketch show Bo' Selecta!, which he co-developed with its main star, Leigh Francis. Palmer directed the second and third series of the E4 sitcom The Inbetweeners in 2009 and 2010, respectively.

Filmography
Bo' Selecta! (2002–06)
Comedy Lab (2004–2010)
Bo! in the USA (2006)
The Inbetweeners (2009–2010)
The Inbetweeners Movie (2011)
Comedy Showcase (2012)
Milton Jones's House of Rooms (2012)
Them from That Thing (2012)
Bad Sugar (2012)
Chickens (2013)
London Irish (2013)
Man Up (2015)
SunTrap (2015)
BBC Comedy Feeds (2016)
Nigel Farage Gets His Life Back (2016)
Back (2017)
Comedy Playhouse (2017)
Urban Myths (2017–19)
Click & Collect (2018)
Semi-Detached (2019)
Breeders (2020)
Passage 6:
The Market of Souls
The Market of Souls is a 1919 American silent drama film directed by Joe De Grasse and written by John Lynch and C. Gardner Sullivan. The film stars Dorothy Dalton, Holmes Herbert, Philo McCullough, Dorcas Mathews, Donald McDonald, and George Williams. The film was released on September 7, 1919, by Paramount Pictures.

Plot
As described in a film magazine, Helen Armes (Dalton), a nurse, comes to New York City from Albany to visit her married brother. She arrives on New Year's Eve and is immediately added to a cabaret party being made up to include her brother's wife and Lyle Bane (McCullough), a wealthy bachelor. At the cabaret she meets his brother Temple Bane (Herbert), a woman-hater who begins to believe in her. When she wearies of the performance, Lyle takes her home, lures her into his apartment, and attempts familiarities. She escapes but is judged guilty by her sister-in-law, so she leaves at once and goes to the nurse headquarters. Temple arrives and, after being told a lie about Helen's character and the incident, fights with his brother and receives a blow that blinds him. Helen is assigned to his case and she nurses him back to his sight. Being ignorant of her identity, Temple asks Helen for her hand in marriage. When he regains his sight, he then denounces her. She is about to leave when Lyle Bane, who has been reported killed in France while in the American Expeditionary Forces, appears in a supernatural form and tells the truth about the incident in the apartment. Temple and Helen reconcile, and Lyle disappears, with it concluded that he did not return in the flesh but only as a spirit.

Cast
Dorothy Dalton as Helen Armes
Holmes Herbert as Temple Bane
Philo McCullough as Lyle Bane
Dorcas Mathews as Evelyn Howell
Donald McDonald as Herbert Howell
George Williams as Dr. Rodney Nevins

Preservation
A print of the film is held in the Gosfilmofond collection in Moscow.
Passage 7:
S. Siddalingaiah
Siddalingaiah (15 December 1936 – 12 March 2015) was an Indian film director, scriptwriter and producer who worked mainly in the Kannada films. He was well known for his distinct film-making style, and the industry knew him as a master of social themes and rural subject matter. He was one of the most commercially successful directors in the Kannada industry. He began his film career in 1964 as a director with Mayor Muthanna (1969). In a career that spanned 30 years, he directed over 20 films.His most well-known films usually starred matinee idol Rajkumar. They have collaborated 7 times. His most popular works include Bangaarada Manushya, Bhootayyana Maga Ayyu, Nyayave Devaru, Biligiriya Banadalli, Doorada Betta and Bhoolokadalli Yamaraja. In 1993, he was awarded the Puttanna Kanagal Award for his contribution to the Kannada film industry as a director.

Family and early life
Siddalingaiah joined the film industry as both a floor and a spot boy for Navajyothi studios. He became an assistant for director Shanker Singh and later worked as junior actor and assistant as the protégé of B. Vittalacharya.
Siddalingaiah's son Murali was an actor in Tamil films. Murali died on the morning of 8 September 2010 in Chennai due to a massive heart attack. His grandson Atharvaa started his acting career in Baana Kaathadi in 2010.

Career
Siddalingaiah directed Mayor Muthanna in 1969 starring Rajkumar, Bharathi and Dwarakish in his film debut. He cast the same lead pair in Baalu Belagithu, Namma Samsara, Thayi Devaru and Bangaarada Manushya.
After Bangaarda Manushya, he worked with other actors including Vishnuvardhan, Ananth Nag, Lokesh and Srinivasa Murthy. He introduced his son Murali in the 1983 romantic drama Prema Parva. He also directed a Tamil film Puthir in 1986 with Murali as the lead actor. His last film, Prema Prema Prema, was released in 1999 after which he retired from directing.

Death
Siddalingaiah died on 14 March 2015 in Bangalore where he had been hospitalized for treatment of H1N1 influenza.

Filmography
Passage 8:
Joseph De Grasse
Joseph Louis De Grasse (May 4, 1873 – May 25, 1940) was a Canadian film director. Born in Bathurst, New Brunswick, he was the elder brother of actor Sam De Grasse.

Biography
Joseph De Grasse had studied and was a first-class graduate of accounting and he began his career as a journalist, but soon became enamored with the theater and took work as a stage actor. In 1903, he quit his full-time job as the City of Boston's bookkeeper to pursue acting. In 1910, he acted in his first motion picture and although he would appear as an actor in 13 films, and write 2 screenplays, his real interest was in directing.
While working in Hollywood for Universal Pictures, De Grasse met and married one of the few female directors working at the time, Ida May Park (1879–1954). In 1915, he became a founding member of the Motion Picture Directors Association, a forerunner to today's Directors Guild of America.
During his career he directed a total of 86 films. In 1924, actor Lon Chaney said of the De Grasses:

Joe and Sam De Grasses are two of the most talented personalities in today's film industry. Joe, a very skilled actor, is also the consummate director, firm in his demands yet gentle in his way of dealing with many different temperaments to be found in the movie industry. Sam is the only actor I know who can horrify an audience without make-up and without grotesque posturing and playing to the camera. He is the only actor I know who pulls teeth on the set in between takes. A rare pair, they have given the industry not one but two dimensions.
Joseph De Grasse died in Eagle Rock, California; he collapsed on a street while walking, and was taken to hospital where he was pronounced dead. The cause of his death was a heart attack.

Filmography
Director
Actor
The Place Beyond the Winds (1916) - Anton Farwell
Triumph (1917) - Man at Theatre (uncredited)
After the War (1918)
So Big (1924) - Simeon Peake
The Cowboy Kid (1928) - John Grover
The Drunkard (1935) - Mr. Miller
The Dawn Rider (1935) - Dad Mason
The Adventures of Frank Merriwell (1936, Serial) - Dr. Cummings (uncredited) (final film role)

Preservation
The three surviving reels of De Grasse's film Triumph were restored by the Academy Film Archive in 2012.

See also
Other Canadian pioneers in early Hollywood
Passage 9:
The Market of Vain Desire
The Market of Vain Desire a 1916 American silent drama film directed by Reginald Barker. It stars Henry B. Warner and Clara Williams.Prints of the film still exist and are preserved at the Library of Congress and with a private collector. The Market of Desire is now in the public domain.

Cast
Henry B. Warner as John Armstrong
Clara Williams as Helen Badgley
Charles Miller as Count Bernard d'Montaigne
Gertrude Claire as Mrs. Bladglley
Leona Hutton as Belle
Passage 10:
The Ship of Souls (film)
The Ship of Souls or Ship of Souls is a 1925 American silent 3-D Western drama film, directed by Charles Miller. It was based on the Western novel The Ship of Souls by Emerson Hough, which was published after his death. It was produced by Max O. Miller, who created the 3-D process used in the film.

Plot
Langley Barnes (Bert Lytell) goes to the North Country after being abandoned by his wife. There he falls in love with Christine Garth (Lillian Rich), and even though he is not legally divorced, marries Christine. Captain Churchill (Cyril Chadwick) is posted to the area to build a radio transmitter, and after returning to the United States, marries Langley's wife, who has now obtained a divorce. After Churchill alerts Barnes with a radio transmission, Langley remarries Christine in a legal ceremony.

Cast
Preservation
With no prints of The Ship of Souls located in any film archives, it is a lost film.