Passage 1:
Jon Leach
Jonathan Leach (born April 18, 1973) is a former professional tennis player from the United States. He is the husband of Lindsay Davenport.

Professional career
Leach, an All-American player at USC, made his Grand Slam debut at the 1991 US Open when he partnered David Witt in the men's doubles. He competed in the doubles at Indian Wells in 1992 with Brian MacPhie and before exiting in the second round they defeated a seeded pairing of Luke Jensen and Laurie Warder. A doubles specialist, his only singles appearance came at Indian Wells in 1994. With Brett Hansen-Dent as his partner, Leach made the second round of the 1995 US Open, with a win over Dutch players Richard Krajicek and Jan Siemerink. At the 1996 US Open, his third and final appearance at the tournament, Leach partnered with his brother Rick. He also played in the mixed doubles, with Amy Frazier. His only doubles title on the ATP Challenger Tour came at Weiden, Germany in 1996.

Personal life
The son of former USC tennis coach Dick Leach, he was brought up in California and went to Laguna Beach High School. Leach married tennis player Lindsay Davenport in Hawaii on April 25, 2003. Their first child, a son named Jagger, was born in 2007. They have had a further three children, all daughters. An investment banker, Leach is also involved in coaching and worked with young American player Madison Keys in the 2015 season. His elder brother, Rick Leach, was also a professional tennis player, who won five Grand Slam doubles titles and reached number one in the world for doubles.

Challenger titles
Doubles: (1)
Passage 2:
Stan Rice
Stanley Travis Rice Jr. (November 7, 1942 – December 9, 2002) was an American poet and artist. He was the husband of author Anne Rice.

Biography
Rice was born in Dallas, Texas, in 1942. He met his future wife Anne O'Brien in high school. They briefly attended North Texas State University together, before marrying in 1961 and moving to San Francisco in 1962, to enroll at San Francisco State University, where they both earned their bachelor's and master's degrees.
Rice was a professor of English and Creative Writing at San Francisco State University. In 1977, he received the Academy of American Poets' Edgar Allan Poe Award for Whiteboy, and in subsequent years was also the recipient of the Joseph Henry Jackson Award, as well as a writing fellowship from the National Endowment for the Arts. Rice retired after 22 years as Chairman of the Creative Writing program as well as Assistant Director of the Poetry Center in 1989.It was the death of his and Anne's first child, daughter Michele (1966–1972), at age six of leukemia, which led to Stan Rice becoming a published author. His first book of poems, based on his daughter's illness and death, was titled Some Lamb, and was published in 1975. He encouraged his wife to quit her work as a waitress, cook and theater usher in order to devote herself full-time to her writing, and both eventually encouraged their son, novelist Christopher Rice, to become a published author as well.

Rice, his wife and his son moved to Garden District, New Orleans, in 1988, where he eventually opened the Stan Rice Gallery. In 1989, they purchased the Brevard-Rice House, 1239 First Street, built in 1857 for Albert Hamilton Brevard.
Stan Rice's paintings are represented in the collections of the Ogden Museum of Southern Art and the New Orleans Museum of Art. He had a one-person show at the James W. Palmer Gallery, Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, New York. The Art Galleries of Southeastern Louisiana presented an exhibition of selected paintings in March 2005. Prospective plans are underway to present exhibitions of Rice's paintings at various locations in Mexico.In Prism of the Night, Anne Rice said of Stan: "He's a model to me of a man who doesn't look to heaven or hell to justify his feelings about life itself. His capacity for action is admirable. Very early on he said to me, 'What more could you ask for than life itself'?"
Poet Deborah Garrison was Rice's editor at Alfred A. Knopf for his 2002 collection, Red to the Rind, which was dedicated to novelist son Christopher, in whose success as a writer his father greatly rejoiced. Garrison said of Rice: "Stan really attempted to kind of stare down the world, and I admire that."Knopf's Victoria Wilson, who edited Anne's novels and worked with Stan Rice on his 1997 book, Paintings, was particularly impressed by his refusal to sell his artworks, saying, "The great thing about Stan is that he refused to play the game as a painter, and he refused to play the game as a poet."

Personal life
Rice was an atheist.

Death
Stan Rice died of brain cancer at age 60, on December 9, 2002, in New Orleans where he lived and was survived by Anne and Christopher, as well as his mother, Margaret; a brother, Larry; and two sisters, Nancy and Cynthia.
Rice is entombed in Metairie Cemetery in New Orleans.

Poetry collections
Some Lamb (1975)
Whiteboy (1976) (earned the Edgar Allan Poe Award from the Academy of American Poets)
Body of Work (1983)
Singing Yet: New and Selected Poems (1992)
Fear Itself (1997)
The Radiance of Pigs (1999)
Red to the Rind (2002)
False Prophet (2003) (Posthumous)

Poetry video recordings
Two series of recordings – one from 1973 at San Francisco State University and the other from 1996 at the poet's New Orleans home by filmmaker Blair Murphy – capturing Stan Rice reading several of his poems are on the YouTube site dedicated to the poet.

Other books
Paintings (1997)

Footnotes
Notes
Passage 3:
Lucy Fleming
Eve Lucinda "Lucy" Fleming (born 15 May 1947) is a British actress.

Early life and ancestry
Fleming was born in Nettlebed, England. She is the second daughter of actress Celia Johnson and writer Peter Fleming (brother of James Bond author Ian Fleming). She is a granddaughter of Valentine Fleming, a Conservative Member of Parliament who was killed during World War I in May 1917, and of his widow, Evelyn. Amaryllis Fleming was the actress's half-aunt, fathered by Welsh painter Augustus John during his relationship with Evelyn.
Fleming spent part of her childhood growing up in New Zealand: "My parents packed me off to some friends in New Zealand when I was 16, hoping I would grow up a little and perhaps change my mind about acting. I was quite a tomboy. I ended up at the Bay of Islands, which was just the most beautiful place in the world. I was meant to be looking after the friends' little boy, but I didn't have a clue, and I don't recall doing much of that at all. I loved the country, though."

Career
Fleming is perhaps best known for her role as Jenny Richards in the BBC post-apocalyptic drama series Survivors, which originally aired from 1975 to 1977. Jenny is the only character to appear in both the first and last episodes of the show. 
Her numerous credits in other British television series include The Avengers, Lydia Bennet in BBC's 1967 Pride and Prejudice series, Maud Ruthyn on the Season 4 episode "Uncle Silas" of the anthology series Mystery and Imagination, Smiley's People, Mr. Bean, the regular role of Jo in Cold Warrior, the first Helen Wycliffe in Wycliffe, A Dance to the Music of Time, Heartbeat, Rosemary & Thyme and Kingdom. More recently she has appeared on the long running radio soap opera The Archers as Miranda, the depressed wife of minor tycoon Justin Elliot, who is played by her real-life husband.

Personal life
Fleming has been married twice; first to Joseph William Peter Laycock (b. July 1938 – d. 14 December 1980) from 1971 to 1980, by whom she had a daughter Flora Laycock (b. 16 March 1972 – d. 14 December 1980), and two sons Robert Laycock (b. June 1973) and Diggory Laycock (b. December 1975). Her husband and her daughter, Flora, drowned on 14 December 1980 in a boating accident on the Thames. She married her second husband, the actor Simon Williams, in 1986.Her uncle Ian's literary estate passed to her father Peter after his death. Since Peter's death, Fleming and her sister Kate have controlled Ian Fleming Publications.
Passage 4:
Anne Fleming (writer)
Anne Fleming (born 25 April 1964) is a Canadian fiction writer. Born in Toronto, Ontario, Fleming attended the University of Waterloo, enrolling in a geography program then moving to English studies. In 1991, she moved to British Columbia. She teaches at the University of British Columbia Okanagan campus in Kelowna. She formerly taught at the Victoria School of Writing.Her fiction has been published in magazines and anthologies, including Toronto Life magazine, The Journey Prize Stories, and The New Quarterly, where it won a National Magazine Award.Her first book, Pool-Hopping and Other Stories, was a finalist at the 1999 Governor General's Awards; it was also a contender for the Ethel Wilson Fiction Prize and the Danuta Gleed Award. Her second book is the novel, Anomaly (Raincoast Books 2005).
Aside from her literary endeavors, Fleming has hosted a radio program, played defense for the Vancouver Voyagers women's hockey team, and also plays the ukulele. She has a partner and child. Fleming's great-grandfather was the mayor of Toronto, and Toronto figures prominently in her writing.In 2013 she served alongside Amber Dawn and Vivek Shraya on the jury of the Dayne Ogilvie Prize, a literary award for LGBT writers in Canada, selecting C. E. Gatchalian as that year's winner.

Bibliography
Pool-Hopping and Other Stories, 1998 (ISBN 1-896095-18-6)
Anomaly, 2005 (ISBN 1-55192-831-0)
Gay Dwarves of America, 2012 (ISBN 1897141467)
poemw, 2016 (ISBN 1-897141-76-9)
The Goat, 2017 (ISBN 1-55498-917-5)

See also
List of University of Waterloo people
Passage 5:
Carrie Watson Fleming
Caroline Margaret Watson Fleming (1844–1931) was the wife of former Governor of West Virginia Aretas B. Fleming and served as that state's First Lady from 1890 to 1893.

Biography
Fleming was born on April 29, 1844, at Fairmont, West Virginia, a daughter of Matilda Lamb and James Otis Watson, early coal operators in that region. She attended Mount de Chantal Visitation Academy at Wheeling, West Virginia.In September 1865, she married the attorney for oil and gas magnate Johnson N. Camden: Aretas B. Fleming. They had one child, a daughter.
Her husband, Aretas Fleming, served as Governor of West Virginia from 1890-1893. After a shortened three year term as first lady, due to the controversial 1888 election, the Flemings returned to Fairmont, where she played a prominent role in Fairmont's cultural, civic, and religious activities. 
In 1916, she signed a memorial from the West Virginia Association Opposed to Woman Suffrage that was sent to the legislature as they considered an amendment to the state constitution to expand the franchise to include women.Fleming died at Fairmont on July 19, 1931, at the age of 87. She is buried next to her husband in the Woodlawn Cemetery.
Passage 6:
Stan Marks
Stan Marks is an Australian writer and journalist. He is the husband of Holocaust survivor Eva Marks.

Life
Born in London, Marks moved to Australia aged two. He became a reporter on rural daily papers and then on the State's evening The Herald (Melbourne), reporting and acting as a critic in the Melbourne and Sydney offices. He worked in London, Canada and in New York City for Australian journals. Back in Australia, Stan Marks became Public Relations and Publicity Supervisor for the Australian Broadcasting Commission, looking after television, radio and concerts, including publicity for Isaac Stern, Yehudi Menuhin, Igor Stravinsky, Daniel Barenboim, Maureen Forrester and international orchestras for Radio Australia and the magazine TVTimes. Later he became Public Relations and Publicity Manager for the Australian Tourist Commission, writing articles for newspapers and journals at home and abroad. Marks was also the editor of the Centre News magazine of the Jewish Holocaust Museum and Research Centre for over 16 years.He is the author of 14 books, published in Australia, England, United States, Israel and Denmark. He originated and co-wrote MS, a cartoon strip dealing with male-female relationships, which appeared daily in Australian and New Zealand newspapers. Marks wrote the play VIVE LA DIFFERENCE
about male-female relations in the 21st century.
Stan Marks has given radio talks over BBC, CBC (Canada) and Australian Broadcasting Commission and to numerous groups, schools and organisations on many topics, particularly humour in all its forms. He has written much in Australia and overseas about fostering understanding and combating racism, hatred and prejudice, often advocating one united world.  He wrote the first article (in the London Stage weekly) suggesting a British Commonwealth Arts Festival and then in various journals world wide. He also was first to suggest an Olympics Arts Festival as a way of possibly bringing the nations closer. A believer in bringing age-youth closer, including advocating, in the New York Times and other journals,  a Youth Council at the United Nations and also later an Australian organization to help young and old to better understand each other and work together.

Merits
Order of Australia for community activities, 2007
Glen Eira Citizen of the Year for community activities
B'nai B'rith Merit award for services to the community

Works
God gave you one face (1966)
Animal Olympics (1972)
Rarua lives in Papua New Guinea (1973)
Malvern sketchbook (1980)
Out & About In Melbourne (1988)
St Kilda heritage sketch book (1995)
Reflections, 20 years 1984-2004 : Jewish Holocaust Museum and Research Centre Melbourne (2004)
Passage 7:
Lam Siu-Por
Lam Siu-por (Chinese: 林兆波; Jyutping: Lam4 Siu6 Bo1; born 28 March 1954) is a Hong Kong mathematician and the husband of Carrie Lam, who served as the fourth Chief Executive of Hong Kong from 2017 to 2022.

Career
Lam earned his doctorate in algebraic topology from the University of Cambridge in 1983, after writing his thesis under the direction of Frank Adams.He used to teach at the Chinese University of Hong Kong and had stayed in the UK. Lam also taught short courses at the Capital Normal University in Beijing before his wife announced her candidacy for chief executive in December 2016.

Personal life
With Carrie Lam, Lam Siu-por has two sons, Jeremy and Joshua, both of whom studied in Great Britain.He and his two adult sons hold Hong Kong and British nationality, allowing Carrie Lam the ability to move to the UK alongside her family.

Political views
In a closed-door meeting during the 2019–20 Hong Kong protests, Carrie Lam said that Lam Siu-por had told her that she would be "condemned by history".During the ceremony of the 20th anniversary of the handover of Macau in 2019, Lam was spotted not clapping and not singing during a group sing-along of the patriotic song "Ode to the Motherland" led by Chinese President and General Secretary of the Communist Party Xi Jinping. This was seen by some as a silent act of support for Hong Kong's pro democracy movement. An editorial compared Lam's behavior to August Landmesser's refusal to perform the Nazi salute with fellow workers during the reign of Nazi Germany.

Research
According to the mathematics review database zbMATH Open , Lam has only one publication so far, published when he was doing his PhD.
Passage 8:
Aretas B. Fleming
Aretas Brooks Fleming (October 15, 1839 – October 13, 1923) was the 8th governor of West Virginia. In 1865, he married Carrie Watson. When he ran as the Democratic nominee in the election of 1888, the election was disputed by the Legislature. In 1890, the Legislature agreed that Fleming had defeated Nathan Goff, Jr. Both Fleming and Goff were sworn in as governor on March 4, 1889.The Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia ruled that outgoing governor Emmanuel Willis Wilson would remain governor; State Senate President Robert S. Carr had claimed authority until the Court reached its decision. In 1890, the Legislature agreed that Fleming had defeated Nathan Goff, Jr. As a result, Fleming did not assume the office until February 6, 1890. He left office in 1893 and continued to practice law, and pursue business interests, specifically in the coal industry. Fleming, along with his brother-in-law Clarence W. Watson, formed many coal companies, and sought to remove their competitors.Fleming died on October 13, 1923, in Fairmont, West Virginia. He is interred at Woodlawn Cemetery. A large obelisk marks his grave.

See also
List of governors of West Virginia
Passage 9:
Robert Fleming (footballer)
Robert Fleming (born 11 March 1860) was a Scottish footballer who played as a right winger.

Career
Born in Greenock, Fleming played for hometown club Morton, becoming their first ever international player when he represented Scotland in 1886.
Passage 10:
Andrew Upton
Andrew Upton is an Australian playwright, screenwriter, and director. He has adapted the works of Gorky, Chekhov, Ibsen, and others for London's Royal National Theatre and the Sydney Theatre Company. He wrote the original play Riflemind (2007), which premiered at the Sydney Theatre Company to favourable reviews, with Hugo Weaving starring and Philip Seymour Hoffman directing the London production.
Upton and his wife, the actor Cate Blanchett, are the co-founders of the film production company, Dirty Films, under which Upton served as a producer for the Australian film Little Fish (2005). Upton and Blanchett became joint artistic directors of the Sydney Theatre Company from 2008 until 2012.

Early life and education
Upton attended The King's School, Parramatta and University of Sydney.

Career
As a playwright, Upton created adaptations of Hedda Gabler, The Cherry Orchard, Cyrano de Bergerac, Don Juan (with Marion Potts), Uncle Vanya, The Maids, Children of the Sun and Platonov for the Sydney Theatre Company (STC) and Maxim Gorky's The Philistines for the Royal National Theatre in London.Upton's original play Riflemind opened with Hugo Weaving, playing an ageing rock star planning a comeback, at the Sydney Theatre Company on 5 October 2007, and received a  favourable review in Variety (magazine). The London production of Riflemind, directed by Philip Seymour Hoffman, opened in 2008, but closed as a result of the financial pressure of the Global Financial Crisis after receiving poor popular press reviews.In 2008, Upton and wife Cate Blanchett became joint artistic directors of the Sydney Theatre Company for what became a five-year term.Upton and Blanchett formed a film production company, Dirty Films, whose projects include the films Bangers (1999) and Little Fish (2006). Upton wrote, produced and directed the short, Bangers, which starred Blanchett. Upton shares writing credits for the feature film Gone (2007).Upton wrote the libretto to Alan John's opera Through the Looking Glass, which premiered with the Victorian Opera in Melbourne in May 2008.Upton acted in one of Julian Rosenfeldt's thirteen-part art film, Manifesto (2015).

Awards and recognition
In June, 2014, Upton was recognised with the Rotary Professional Excellence Award, an award instituted "to honour a person who has demonstrated consistent professional excellence in his or her chosen vocation by contributing to the benefit of the wider community beyond their typical workplace role".

Personal life
Upton and Blanchett met in Australia in the mid-1990s and married on 29 December 1997. The couple have three sons and one daughter, the latter adopted in 2015. The couple's children appeared with Upton in segment 11 of the 2015 film Manifesto.Upton and Blanchett purchased a house in East Sussex, England, in early 2016.