Passage 1:
Zoran Švonja
Zoran Švonja (Serbian Cyrillic: Зоран Швоња; born 4 October 1996) is a Serbian footballer who plays as a midfielder for  Mladost Novi Sad. He is the younger brother of footballer Goran Švonja.

Club career
From 2016 to 2018, he played for OFK Bačka.
Passage 2:
Anton Shunto
Anton Shunto (Belarusian: Антон Шунто; Russian: Антон Шунто; born 31 May 1988) is a Belarusian professional footballer who plays for Zhodino-Yuzhnoye.He is a younger brother of Denis Shunto, who is a founder and former president of Krumkachy Minsk.

Career
Shunto started his career with FC Krumkachy Minsk.
Passage 3:
Peter Rosegger
Peter Rosegger (original Roßegger) (31 July 1843 – 26 June 1918) was an Austrian writer and poet from Krieglach in the province of Styria. He was a son of a mountain farmer and grew up in the woodlands and mountains of Alpl. Rosegger (or Rossegger) went on to become a most prolific poet and author as well as an insightful teacher and visionary.
In his later years, he was honoured by officials from various Austrian universities and the city of Graz (the capital of Styria). He was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature three times. He was nearly awarded the Nobel Prize in 1913 and is (at least among the people of Styria) something like a national treasure to this day.

Early life
Rosegger was born as the first of seven children of a peasant couple in the village of Alpl, in the mountains above Krieglach, Styria. The family lived in a simple 18th-century Alpine farmhouse, called Kluppeneggerhof. Living conditions were modest, the central room was used for eating, sleeping and working. Food was prepared over a hearth in the scullery. The farmhouse is now part of the Universalmuseum Joanneum, but even today the building ensemble can only be reached by foot.
Since this little village, consisting only of a handful of farms, had neither a church nor a school, Rosegger and the other children would have had to walk down the mountain to the larger village, St. Kathrein, in order to attend either. The way there takes two hours and as a result, Peter had very limited education, largely provided by a wandering teacher who taught him and other children from the region for a year and a half. His physical constitution was not sufficient for him to become a farmer like his father, as he was often sick and rather frail in general. So, he became understudy of a traveling tailor at the age of seventeen.

Success as a writer
His interest in literature prevailed, although he earned little money. He spent what he could afford on books and soon began to write himself. Eventually, he was discovered by the publisher of the Graz-based newspaper, Tagespost, published by Dr. Svoboda. He realized Rosegger's talent as an author and enabled him to attend the Akademie für Handel und Industrie (Academy for Trade and Industries) in Graz.
There, Peter von Reininghaus became his mentor. Von Reininghaus was a wealthy and influential industrialist, and Rosegger had a personal friendship with him for the rest of his life. However, he had a hard time studying, as he was not used to attending school regularly, and had little, and fragmentary, knowledge in many disciplines. He left the academy in 1869 at the age of twenty-six.
Soon after that, he was offered a chance to publish his literary works, namely by Gustav Heckenast, who had worked with Adalbert Stifter before. Peter Rosegger accepted, and his first book, Geschichten aus der Steiermark ("Tales from Styria"), was released in 1871. From then on, all of his works were published by Heckenast. [Presumably only until Heckenast's death: see next sentence?]
Rosegger changed to a new publisher twice after Heckenast's death, eventually ending up with Ludwig Staackmann, who made him a most generous offer. He had always been very faithful towards his publishers, and the relationship between them was one of friendship and familiarity. Rosegger started to publish Heimgarten in 1876, a monthly journal with articles and stories for the people of the country, whose main representative and interpreter he was.

Character and private life
In 1873, Rosegger married Anna Pichler. They had two children, but the marriage was short - Anna died giving birth in 1875. This affected Peter to a great degree, as is obvious from various letters he wrote to friends in that time. In 1879, Rosegger married again: Anna Knaur, with whom he had three more children and a very harmonious house life. She also cared for him during his many times of sickness.
He developed many brilliant and extraordinary ideas from the context of his time, and kept contact with unconventional personalities. Rudolf Falb, the creator of the popular "lunisolar flood theory," was not only his school teacher but remained a lifelong friend. Although feeling strongly connected to his rural homelands, he was a liberal thinker with conservative roots. Fascinated by machines and technology, and being a faithful Christian, he showed a sharp eye for the potentials and advantages, as well as for the dangers and downsides of both the church and the economic development of the late 19th century. As an author he aimed to entertain, to teach and also to help. He called for donations publicly at various occasions or used his influence in academic circles, thus contributing to the founding of one school (in Alpl, his home village), the building of two churches (one in Mürzzuschlag and one in St. Kathrein, rebuilt after it burned down) and other benevolent actions.

Honors
In 1903, at his 60th birthday, he was honoured by receiving the "Ehrendoktorwürde" (Doctor honoris causa) of the University of Heidelberg. The University of Vienna and the University of Graz also awarded him with similar decorations, and the German emperor Wilhelm II, as well as the Austrian emperor Franz Josef I of Austria gave Rosegger medals of honour (namely, the "Kronenorden 2. Klasse" and the "Ehrenabzeichen für Kunst und Wissenschaft"). He became citizen of honour in Graz and Vienna, and Franz Josef's successor Karl presented the ex-farmer-boy-now-national-poet with the Franz-Joseph-medal, a high-ranking accolade for an author.

Late life and death
Rosegger, who had been ill frequently and seriously, travelled back to his home in Krieglach in May 1918 in order to die where "the beautiful legend of the forest-farmer boy" had once begun, in the woodlands of the Styrian Alps.
His birth house, the former "Forest School" (Waldschule) he helped to found in Alpl in 1902 and his house in Krieglach, where he lived until his death in 1918, are museums today. The region where he came from (the mountains of the Fischbacher Alps south of Krieglach and Mürzzuschlag) are now unofficially named "Waldheimat" ("Home in the Forest") after the name he gave it himself. The tourism industry in the region still profits from Rosegger's enduring popularity among readers.

Selected works
Zither und Hackbrett (poems in Styrian dialect, 1870)
Volksleben in Steiermark ("People's Life in Styria"), 1875
Die Schriften des Waldschulmeisters ("Manuscripts of a Forest-school Master"), 1875
Waldheimat ("Home in the Forest"), 1877
Der Gottsucher ("the God-seeker"), 1883
Heidepeters Gabriel, 1886
Jakob der Letzte ("Jakob the Last One"), 1888
Als ich noch jung war ("When I Was Young"), 1895
Das ewige Licht ("the Eternal Light"), 1896
Erdsegen ("Earth's Blessing"), 1900
Als ich noch der Waldbauernbub war ("When I Was a Forest-farmer Boy"), 1902

Further reading
Eindringen des Kapitalismus in ein Bauerndorf, Martin der Mann, 1889 ("Introduction of Capitalism into a Village of Farmers", "Martin the Man")
Hoch vom Dachstein, 1891
Weltgift, 1903
INRI (Christ book), 1905
Collected Works, 1913–16
Letters to F. v. Hausegger, 1924
Letters to A. Silberstein, 1929

Film and television adaptations
I.N.R.I. (dir. Robert Wiene, 1923)
Das Siegel Gottes (dir. Alfred Stöger, 1949)
Die Försterbuben (dir. Robert A. Stemmle, 1955)
Die fröhliche Wallfahrt (dir. Ferdinand Dörfler, 1956)
Als ich noch der Waldbauernbub war... (1963, TV film)
Aus meiner Waldheimat (1963, TV film)
Als ich beim Käthele im Wald war (1963, TV film)
Am Tage des Gerichts (1965, TV film)
Jakob der Letzte (dir. Axel Corti, 1976, TV film)
Waldheimat (1983–1984, TV series, 26 episodes)
Die Försterbuben (dir. Peter Patzak, 1984, TV film)
Erdsegen (dir. Karin Brandauer, 1986, TV film)
Passage 4:
Ruel Redinger
Otis Ruel "Pete" Redinger (December 31, 1896 – September 26, 1969) was an American football player who played professionally for one season in the National Football League {NFL) with the Canton Bulldogs, during the 1925 season. Redinger played college football at Pennsylvania State University and Colgate University.
Passage 5:
Roman Smishko
Roman Smishko (Ukrainian: Роман Володимирович Смішко) is a retired Ukrainian professional footballer who played as a goalkeeper.
He is a younger brother of Ukrainian defender Bohdan Smishko.

Career
He played for clubs in Estonian, Lithuanian and Belarusian top levels.In the 2014 Meistriliiga season he set the league clean sheet record by not conceding a single goal for 1,281 minutes between 5 April 2014 and 25 July 2014 which is 30 minutes short and allegedly the second best result in countries top flight after Edwin Van der Sar's 1,311 minutes.
Passage 6:
Markus Weissenberger
Markus Weissenberger  (born 8 March 1975) is an Austrian former professional footballer who played as a midfielder.
He is a younger brother of former Austria international player Thomas Weissenberger.

Club career
Weissenberger played for Eintracht Frankfurt, TSV 1860 Munich, Arminia Bielefeld, LASK.
In the Eintracht squad he was, in the attacking midfield, often only a backup for Alexander Meier and predominantly gets few short time appearances.
He returned to LASK in summer 2008 on a free transfer.

International career
Weissenberger made his debut for the Austria national team in an August 1999 friendly match against Sweden, coming on as a substitute for Mario Haas. He missed out on Euro 2008, after coming back late from a knee injury.
He earned 29 caps, scoring one goal, until August 2008.

International goal
Scores and results list Austria's goal tally first.

Career statistics
International
Honours
Eintracht Frankfurt

DFB-Pokal runner-up: 2005–06
Passage 7:
Dmitri Varfolomeyev (footballer, born 1978)
Dmitri Nikolayevich Varfolomeyev (Russian: Дмитрий Николаевич Варфоломеев; born 15 March 1978) is a Russian former football player.He is a younger brother of Sergei Varfolomeyev.

Honours
Zhenis AstanaKazakhstan Premier League champion: 2001
Kazakhstan Cup winner: 2001
Passage 8:
Vadim Vlasov
Vadim Nikolayevich Vlasov (Russian: Вадим Николаевич Власов; born 19 December 1980) is a former Russian football player.Vlasov played in the Russian Premier League with FC Lokomotiv Nizhny Novgorod.
He is a younger brother of Dmitri Vlasov.
Passage 9:
Alan Chipp
Alan Chipp (born 9 January 1937) is a former Australian rules footballer who played for the Fitzroy Football Club in the Victorian Football League (VFL). He is a younger brother of politician Don Chipp.

Notes
External links
Alan Chipp's playing statistics from AFL Tables
Alan Chipp at AustralianFootball.com
Passage 10:
Miloš Zličić
Miloš Zličić (Serbian Cyrillic: Милош Зличић; born 29 December 1999) is a Serbian football forward who plays for Smederevo 1924. He is a younger brother of Lazar Zličić.

Club career
Vojvodina
Born in Novi Sad, Zličić passed Vojvodina youth school and joined the first team at the age of 16. Previously, he was nominated for the best player of the "Tournament of Friendship", played in 2015. He made his senior debut in a friendly match against OFK Bačka during the spring half of the 2015–16 season, along with a year younger Mihajlo Nešković. Zličić made an official debut for Vojvodina in the 16th fixture of the 2016–17 Serbian SuperLiga season, played on 19 November 2016 against Novi Pazar.

Loan to Cement
In July 2018, Zličić joined the Serbian League Vojvodina side Cement Beočin on half-year loan deal. Zličić made his debut in an official match for Cement on 18 August, in the first round of the new season of the Serbian League Vojvodina, in a defeat against Omladinac. He scored his first senior goal on 25 August, in victory against Radnički.

International career
Zličić was called in Serbia U15 national team squad during the 2014, and he also appeared for under-16 national team between 2014 and 2015. He was also member of a U17 level later. After that, he was member of a U18 level, and scored goal against Slovenia U18.

Career statistics
As of 26 February 2020