Passage 1:
Peter Levin
Peter Levin is an American director of film, television and theatre.

Career
Since 1967, Levin has amassed a large number of credits directing episodic television and television films. Some of his television series credits include Love Is a Many Splendored Thing, James at 15, The Paper Chase, Family, Starsky & Hutch, Lou Grant, Fame, Cagney & Lacey, Law & Order and Judging Amy.Some of his television film credits include Rape and Marriage: The Rideout Case (1980), A Reason to Live (1985), Popeye Doyle (1986), A Killer Among Us (1990), Queen Sized (2008) and among other films. He directed "Heart in Hiding", written by his wife Audrey Davis Levin, for which she received an Emmy for Best Day Time Special in the 1970s.
Prior to becoming a director, Levin worked as an actor in several Broadway productions. He costarred with Susan Strasberg in "[The Diary of Ann Frank]" but had to leave the production when he was drafted into the Army. He trained at the Carnegie Mellon University. Eventually becoming a theatre director, he directed productions at the Long Wharf Theatre and the Pacific Resident Theatre Company. He also co-founded the off-off-Broadway Theatre [the Hardware Poets Playhouse] with his wife Audrey Davis Levin and was also an associate artist of The Interact Theatre Company.
Passage 2:
Dana Blankstein
Dana Blankstein-Cohen (born March 3, 1981) is the executive director of the Sam Spiegel Film and Television School. She was appointed by the board of directors  in November 2019.  Previously she was the CEO of the Israeli Academy of Film and Television. She is a film director, and an Israeli culture entrepreneur.

Biography
Dana Blankstein was born in Switzerland in 1981 to theatre director Dedi Baron and Professor Alexander Blankstein. She moved to Israel in 1983 and grew up in Tel Aviv.
Blankstein graduated from the Sam Spiegel Film and Television School, Jerusalem in 2008 with high honors. During her studies she worked as a personal assistant to directors Savi Gabizon on his film Nina's Tragedies and to Renen Schorr on his film The Loners.  She also directed and shot 'the making of' film on Gavison's film Lost and Found. Her debut film Camping competed at the Berlin International Film Festival, 2007.

Film and academic career
After her studies, Dana founded and directed the film and television department at the Kfar Saba municipality. The department encouraged and promoted productions filmed in the city of Kfar Saba, as well as the established cultural projects, and educational community activities.
Blankstein directed the mini-series "Tel Aviviot" (2012). From 2016-2019 was the director of the Israeli Academy of Film and Television.
In November 2019 Dana Blankstein Cohen was appointed the new director of the Sam Spiegel Film and Television School where she also oversees the Sam Spiegel International Film Lab. In 2022, she spearheaded the launch of the new Series Lab and the film preparatory program for Arabic speakers in east Jerusalem.

Filmography
Tel Aviviot (mini-series; director, 2012)
Growing Pains (graduation film, Sam Spiegel; director and screenwriter, 2008)
Camping (debut film, Sam Spiegel; director and screenwriter, 2006)
Passage 3:
Oskar Roehler
Oskar Roehler (born 21 January 1959) is a German film director, screenwriter and journalist. He was born in Starnberg, the son of writers Gisela Elsner and Klaus Roehler. Since the mid-1980s, he has been working as a screenwriter, for, among others, Niklaus Schilling, Christoph Schlingensief and Mark Schlichter. Since the early 1990s, he has also been working as a film director. For his film No Place to Go he won the Deutscher Filmpreis. His 2010 film Jew Suss: Rise and Fall was nominated for the Golden Bear at the 60th Berlin International Film Festival.

Partial filmography
Gentleman (1995)
Silvester Countdown (1997)
Gierig (1999)
No Place to Go (2000)
Suck My Dick (2001)
Beloved Sister (2002)
Angst (2003)
Agnes and His Brothers (2004)
The Elementary Particles (2006)
Lulu and Jimi (2009)
Jew Suss: Rise and Fall (2010)
Sources of Life (2013)
Punk Berlin 1982 (2015)
Subs (2017)
Enfant Terrible (2020)
Passage 4:
Atomised (film)
Atomised (German: Elementarteilchen; also known as The Elementary Particles) is a 2006 German drama film written and directed by Oskar Roehler and produced by Oliver Berben and Bernd Eichinger. It is based on the novel Les Particules élémentaires by Michel Houellebecq. The film stars Moritz Bleibtreu as Bruno, Christian Ulmen as Michael, Martina Gedeck as Christiane, Franka Potente as Annabelle, and Nina Hoss as Jane.
The film had its premiere at the Berlin Film Festival in Germany in February 2006. In contrast to the book setting in Paris, the film was shot entirely and is mainly situated in various places in Germany. Cities and states in Germany used for filming included Thuringia and Berlin. Contrary to the book, the film does not have cultural pessimism as a main theme, and it has an alternative ending.

Plot
The film focuses on Michael (Michael Djerzinski) and Bruno and their disturbed sexuality. They are half-brothers who are very different from each other. They both had an unusual childhood because their mother was a hippie, instead growing up with their grandmothers and in boarding schools.
Michael grows up to become a molecular biologist and in doing so becomes more fascinated with genetics and separating reproduction and sexuality by cloning rather than having actual sexual relationships. He is frustrated by his current job in Berlin and decides to continue his research on cloning at an institution in Ireland. Bruno, a secondary school teacher and unsuccessful author, on the other hand, is obsessed with his own sexual desires and systematically drowns himself in failed attempts with women and nights with prostitutes. He voluntarily checks himself into a mental institution after having sexually harassed one of his students.
Before his departure to Ireland, Michael visits the village of his childhood for the first time in years. To his surprise, he meets his childhood friend Annabelle there and finds that she is still single and they start a sexual relationship. Bruno leaves the mental institution and goes on holiday to a hippie camp after being faced with divorce by his wife. At the camp he meets Christiane, who is also sexually open. Although they have an open relationship, he falls in love with her.
During a sex orgy at one of their visits to a swing club, Christiane collapses and Bruno is faced in hospital with the news that Christiane is paralysed forever because of a chronic illness. Nonetheless Bruno wants to live with her until the end. However Christiane insists that he should take some time for consideration. Michael moves to Ireland and learns that, despite his doubts, his old research on cloning was a revolutionary breakthrough. However he misses Annabelle but does not manage to get her on the phone. Annabelle is informed that she is pregnant but must have an abortion and her womb removed due to life-threatening abnormalities. Bruno calls Christiane but always replaces the receiver after just one ring. He finally drives to her apartment only to learn that she has committed suicide shortly before. Subsequently he re-enters mental institution totally devastated. Michael is told by Annabelle's mother that Annabelle had an abortion and a severe surgery. He immediately leaves Ireland for Annabelle and finally openly admits his deep love to her.
In hospital Bruno has hallucinations of Christiane who explains to him that her suicide was not his fault. In his imagination he tells her that he ultimately has decided to stay with her forever. After Annabelle recovers and before their departure to Ireland, Michael and Annabelle visit Bruno in hospital and take him to the beach. Michael asks Bruno if he wants to come with Annabelle and him to Ireland but Bruno decides to live happily in hospital with Christiane in his mind forever.
The film ends with title cards stating that Michael Djerzinski received the Nobel Prize. This too is fiction.

Cast
Moritz Bleibtreu
Christian Ulmen
Martina Gedeck
Franka Potente
Nina Hoss

Reception
The film has a 100 percent rating in the review aggregating website Rotten Tomatoes based on seven reviews.
Passage 5:
Ian Barry (director)
Ian Barry is an Australian director of film and TV.

Select credits
Waiting for Lucas (1973) (short)
Stone (1974) (editor only)
The Chain Reaction (1980)
Whose Baby? (1986) (mini-series)
Minnamurra (1989)
Bodysurfer (1989) (mini-series)
Ring of Scorpio (1990) (mini-series)
Crimebroker (1993)
Inferno (1998) (TV movie)
Miss Lettie and Me (2002) (TV movie)
Not Quite Hollywood: The Wild, Untold Story of Ozploitation! (2008) (documentary)
The Doctor Blake Mysteries (2013)
Passage 6:
Susan B. Nelson
Susan B. Nelson (April 13, 1927 – May 4, 2003) was an American environmental activist who is best known as the mother of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area.

Early life
Sue Nelson was born Susan Louise Barr in Syracuse, New York, on April 13, 1927, the child of an accountant and a teacher.  Her family moved to Los Angeles where she attended Alexander Hamilton High School and UCLA, graduating in 1948 with a degree in political science. She later earned a master's degree from UCLA in urban planning in 1969.

Environmental activism
Nelson started her conservationist career as a housewife in Mandeville Canyon.  She later became an active member in the Sierra Club, the Peace and Freedom Party, and the Green Party.  In 1964 she helped to found the Friends of the Santa Monica Mountains, Parks and Seashore, and also became this group's president. She is credited by congressman Anthony Beilenson as being the single greatest driver behind the establishment by Congress in 1978 of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area, the first truly urban national park. Along with Nelson, two other women (Jill Swift and Margot Feuer) were instrumental in bringing about federal, legal recognition of the SMMNRA.  In the years following this federal legislation, Nelson lobbied Congress to provide more funding to expand and improve the parkland. Nelson also worked on a variety of other conservation projects throughout the Los Angeles region in the 1980s and 1990s, including areas such as Malibu Creek State Park, Point Mugu, Hollywood, Temescal Canyon, and Topanga Canyon. She also voiced her vocal opposition, through newspaper opinion pieces and town hall meetings, to development projects such as the Malibu Canyon Freeway, the Pacific Coast Freeway, and the Mulholland Highway. In addition, Nelson sounded a warning bell against the privatization of public parklands. Her persistence led some to call her ruthless, but also warmhearted and feisty.

Personal life
Nelson married Earl Nelson in 1948.  Together they had four children, but the marriage ended in divorce.  Nelson's son-in-law was the composer James Horner.  She died on May 4, 2003, after she was hit by a car near her home in Echo Park, Los Angeles.

Legacy
Nelson's archives are held in Special Collections and Archives at the University Library of California State University, Northridge.
Passage 7:
Fatima bint Mubarak Al Ketbi
Sheikha Fatima bint Mubarak Al Ketbi (Arabic: فاطمة بنت مبارك الكتبي) is the third wife of Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, the founder and inaugural president of United Arab Emirates. She is referred to as the mother of sheikhs, the mother of the UAE and as The mother of Nation.

Early life
Sheikha Fatima was born in Al-Hayer, Al Ain Region, as the only daughter to her parents. Her family is Bedouin and religious.

Achievements
Sheikha Fatima is a supporter of women's rights in the UAE. She is the supreme chairperson of the Family Development Foundation (FDF) and significantly contributed to the foundation of the first women's organization in 1976, the Abu Dhabi Society for the Awakening of Women. She was also instrumental in a nationwide campaign advocating for girls' education and heads the UAE's General Women Union (GWU), which she founded in 1975. She is also the President of the Motherhood and Childhood Supreme Council. At the end of the 1990s, she publicly announced that women should be members of the Federal National Council of the Emirates.Sheikha Fatima also supports efforts concerning adult literacy and provision of free public education for girls. An award named the Sheikha Fatima Award for Excellence has been presented in her honor since 2005 for the outstanding academic performance and commitment to the environment and world citizenship of the female recipients. The reward includes a full-tuition scholarship that extends to schools across the Middle East and in 2010 expanded to India. She has consistently supported women in sport and initiated an award called the Sheikha Fatima bint Mubarak Award for Woman Athletes. Sheikha Fatima bint Mubarak also created a women's sports academy called Fatima Bint Mubarak Ladies Academy in Abu Dhabi. The Sheikha Fatima Institute of Nursing and Health Sciences in Lahore, Pakistan, is named after her.On 30 March 2021, Sheikha Fatima launched a National Action Plan on women, peace and security - the first National Action Plan developed in a Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) country. The plan aims to empower and support women globally by promoting the UN Security Council Resolution 1325.

Awards
In 1997, five different organizations of the United Nations had awarded Sheikha Fatima for her significant efforts for women's rights. The UNIFEM stated, "she is the champion of women's rights." She was also awarded the Grand Cordon of the Order of November 7th by the Tunisian president Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on 26 June 2009 for her contributions to raise the status of Arab women. She was also given the UNESCO Marie Curie Medal for her efforts in education, literacy and women's rights, being the third international and the first Arab recipient of the award.On March 16, 2005, she received the Athir Class of the National Order of Merit of Algeria.

Marriage and children
Fatima bint Mubarak Al Ketbi married Sheikh Zayed Al Nahyan when he was the ruler of the Eastern region in 1960. Sheikh Zayed met her in a mosque. They moved to Abu Dhabi when Sheikh Zayed became the ruler in August 1966. She was his most influential and favorite spouse because of her influential personality. She is the mother of Sheikh Mohamed, the current President of the United Arab Emirates and the ruler of Abu Dhabi; Sheikh Hamdan, Sheikh Hazza, Sheikh Tahnoun, Sheikh Mansour, Sheikh Abdullah, Sheikha Shamma and Sheikha Alyazia. They are the most powerful block in the ruling family of Abu Dhabi, the Al Nahyans.
Passage 8:
Kekuʻiapoiwa II
Kekuʻiapoiwa II was a Hawaiian chiefess and the mother of the king Kamehameha I.

Biography
She was named after her aunt Kekuʻiapoiwa Nui (also known as Kekuʻiapoiwa I), the wife of King Kekaulike of Maui.
Her father was High Chief Haʻae, the son of Chiefess Kalanikauleleiaiwi and High Chief Kauaua-a-Mahi of the Mahi family of the Kohala district of Hawaiʻi island, and brother of Alapainui. Her mother was Princess Kekelakekeokalani-a-Keawe (also known as Kekelaokalani), daughter of the same Kalanikauleleiaiwi and Keaweʻīkekahialiʻiokamoku, king of Hawaii. Her mother had been sought after by many who wished to marry into the Keawe line. She was the niece of Alapainui through both her father and mother.
She married the High Chief Keōua to whom she had been betrothed since childhood. Through her double grandmother Kalanikauleleiaiwi, Keōua's own paternal grandmother, she was the double cousin of Keōua. When her uncle was staying at Kohala superintending the collection of his fleet and warriors from the different districts of the island preparatory to the invasion of Maui, in the month of Ikuwa (probably winter) Kamehameha was born probably in November 1758.: 135–136   
He had his birth ceremony at the Moʻokini Heiau, an ancient temple which is preserved in Kohala Historical Sites State Monument.Many stories are told about the birth of Kamehameha.
One says that when Kekuʻiapoiwa was pregnant with Kamehameha, she had a craving for the eyeball of a chief. She was given the eyeball of a man-eating shark and the priests prophesied that this meant the child would be a rebel and a killer of chiefs. Alapainui, the old ruler of the island of Hawaiʻi, secretly made plans to have the newborn infant killed.Kekuʻiapoiwa's time came on a stormy night in the Kohala district, when a strange star with a tail of white fire appeared in the western sky. This could have been Halley's Comet which appeared near the end of 1758. According to one legend, the baby was passed through a hole in the side of Kekuiapoiwa's thatched hut to a local Kohala chief named Naeʻole, who carried the child to safety at Awini  on the island's north coast. By the time the infant in Naeʻole's care was five, Alapainui had accepted him back into his household.After Kamehameha, Kekuʻiapoiwa bore a second son, Keliimaikai. A few years later, Keōua died in Hilo, and the family moved with Alapainui to an area near Kawaihae, where she married a chief of the Kona district (and her uncle) Kamanawa.
She had one daughter, Piʻipiʻi Kalanikaulihiwakama, from this second husband, who would later become an important military ally of Kamehameha, who was both step son and cousin through several relationships. Piʻipiʻi became first the wife of Keholoikalani, the father of her son Kanihonui, and later she married Kaikioewa, who she had a daughter Kuwahine with.: 18

Kamehameha dynasty
Passage 9:
Minamoto no Chikako
Minamoto no Chikako (源 親子) was the daughter of Kitabatake Morochika, and Imperial consort to Emperor Go-Daigo. She had earlier been Imperial consort to Go-Daigo's father, Emperor Go-Uda.
She was the mother of Prince Morinaga.
Passage 10:
Trinidad Tecson
Trinidad Perez Tecson (November 18, 1848 – January 28, 1928), known as the "Mother of Biak-na-Bato" and "Mother of Mercy", fought to gain Philippines independence.
She was given the title "Mother of Biak-na-Bato" by Gen. Emilio Aguinaldo. She was also cited as the "Mother of the Philippine National Red Cross" for her service to her fellow Katipuneros.

Early life
Tecson was born in San Miguel de Mayumo, Bulacan, one of sixteen children of Rafael Tecson and Monica Perez. She learned to read and write from schoolmaster Quinto. She practiced fencing with Juan Zeto and was feared throughout the province, called "Tangkad" (tall) by her peers. Orphaned at a very young age, she stopped school and went with her siblings to live with relatives. She married at 19 and had two children, Sinforoso and Desiderio, who both died. Tecson and her husband were engaged in the purchase and sale of cattle, fish, oysters, and lobsters to be sold in Manila.

Revolutionary
Philippine-American War
She joined the revolutionary forces led by Gen. Gregorio del Pilar and participated in the assault on the province of Bulacan and Calumpit. She also served in the Malolos Republic and was designated as the Commissary of War. During the American drive northward, she was in Cabanatuan. Bringing with her sick and wounded revolutionaries, Tecson crossed the Zambales mountains to Santa Cruz then to Iba.

Life after the war
After the war, her second husband died and she continued in business in Nueva Ecija, concentrating on selling meat in the towns of San Antonio and Talavera. She married her third husband, Doroteo Santiago, and after his death, married Francisco Empainado. On January 28, 1928, she died in Philippine General Hospital at age 79. Her remains lie in the Plot of the Veterans of the Revolution in Cementerio del Norte.