Passage 1:
Bobby Dixon
Bobby Dixon or Ali Muhammed (born April 10, 1983), is an American-born naturalized Turkish professional basketball former player who played at the point guard position. He also represented the senior Turkish national basketball team, as he holds Turkish citizenship since 2015, under the name of Ali Muhammed.

College career
After graduating from Chicago's Sullivan High School, Dixon played college basketball at Troy University. In his two-year career with the Trojans, he played in 59 games, averaging 16.3 points, 4.6 rebounds, and 5.3 assists per game. He was also named to the 2005–06 All-Sun Belt Conference First Team.

Professional career
Dixon started his professional career in France with  Saint-Étienne Basket. In May 2007, he signed a contract with the French League team Gravelines until the end of the season. In the summer of 2007, he signed a contract with Polpak Świecie of the Polish Basketball League. He led the 2007–08 season Polish League in assists, averaging 5.1 per game. In the summer of 2008, he signed a contract with the Italian League team Pallacanestro Treviso. In February 2009, he moved to the France again, signed by Le Mans Sarthe Basket. In the summer of 2009, he signed a contract with the French League team ASVEL Basket. In 2010, he moved to the Italy, signed by Pallacanestro Treviso again. In the summer of 2010, he signed a contract with the Italian League team New Basket Brindisi. In the summer of 2011, he signed a contract with the French League team Dijon Basket.

Karşıyaka (2012–2015)
In July 2012, Dixon signed a contract with Karşıyaka of the Turkish League. On February 9, 2014, he was named the MVP with 19 points, 5 rebounds, and 6 assists in the Turkish Cup final game against Anadolu Efes S.K. He also helped to lead them to a Turkish President's Cup victory against Fenerbahçe in 2014. He was named to the All-EuroCup Second Team in the 2014–15 EuroCup season. On June 19, 2015, he won the Turkish League championship with Karşıyaka, after beating Anadolu Efes by a series score of 4–1 in the Turkish League Finals. Dixon was named the Turkish League Finals MVP.

Fenerbahçe (2015–2021)
On July 21, 2015, Dixon signed a two-year contract with Fenerbahçe. On 28 March 2016, he had a 23 points, 12 rebounds, and 10 assists performance against Beşiktaş, which marked his first triple double in the team. That triple double, was the third in Fenerbahce history, after Mark Dickel had a 16 points, 13 rebounds, and 11 assists performance against Galatasaray, in the 2002–03 season; and Emir Preldžić had 10 points, 15 rebounds, and 10 assists against Olin Edirne, in the 2010–11 season.In 2017–18 EuroLeague, Fenerbahçe made it to the 2018 EuroLeague Final Four, its fourth consecutive Final Four appearance. Eventually, they lost to Real Madrid with 80–85 in the final game. Over 20 EuroLeague games, he averaged 7 points, 1.1 rebounds and 1.2 assists per game, in decreased playing time over last season.
In April 2019, he signed a new two-year contract with Fenerbahçe, staying at the club until the end of 2020–21 season. Dixon parted ways with the team on September 14, 2021.On October 14, 2021, he has announced his retirement from professional basketball and started to work as a Youth Coach for Fenerbahçe Beko.

Turkish national team
After receiving Turkish citizenship, Dixon became a member of the senior men's Turkish national basketball team. With the Turkish national team, he played at the EuroBasket 2015, and the Manila 2016 FIBA World Olympic Qualifying Tournament.

Career statistics
EuroLeague
Domestic leagues
Personal
In June 2015, Dixon received a Turkish passport and citizenship, which legally changed his name in Turkey to Ali Muhammed.
Passage 2:
Ali Farzat
Ali Farzat or Ali Ferzat (Arabic: علي فرزات; born 22 June 1951) is a Syrian political cartoonist. He has published more than 15,000 caricatures in Syrian, Arab and international newspapers. He serves as the head of the Arab Cartoonists Association. In 2011, he received Sakharov Prize for peace. Farzat was named one of the 100 most influential people in the world by Time magazine in 2012.

Life and career
Farzat was born and raised in the city of Hama, in central Syria on 22 June 1951. At the age of 12, he started publishing drawings professionally on the front pages of al-Ayyam newspaper, shortly before it was banned by the ruling Baath Party. His first cartoon was about the Évian Accords negotiations between Algerians and French officials. In 1969, he began drawing caricatures for the state-run daily, al-Thawra. He enrolled at the Faculty of Fine Arts at Damascus University in 1970, and left before dropping out in 1973. In the mid-1970s, he moved to another government controlled daily, Tishreen, where his cartoons appeared every day. His caricatures were critical of government corruption but were not directed at particular individuals. International recognition followed in 1980 when he won the first prize at the Intergraphic International Festival in Berlin, Germany, and his drawings began to appear in the French newspaper Le Monde. His exhibition in 1989 at the Institut du Monde Arabe in Paris, France led to a death threat from Saddam Hussein, and a ban from Iraq, Jordan and Libya. The drawing that brought about the most controversy was called The General and the Decorations which showed a general handing out military decorations instead of food to a hungry Arab citizen.Farzat met Syrian president Bashar al-Assad prior to his presidency in 1996. According to Farzat, "He [Bashar] actually laughed at some of the cartoons—specifically at those targeting security personnel—he had a bunch of them with him and he turned to them and said: 'Hey, he is making fun of you. What do you think?" Afterward the two developed a friendship. In December 2000, Farzat started publishing al-Domari (Arabic: الدومري, lit. 'The Lamplighter'), which was the first independent periodical in Syria since the Baath Party came to power in 1963. The newspaper was based on political satire and styled in a similar way to the French weekly Le Canard enchaîné. The first issue of the paper came out in February 2001 and the entire 50,000 copies were sold in less than four hours. In 2002, he won the prestigious Dutch Prince Claus Award for "achievement in culture and development". By 2003, however, frequent government censorship and lack of funds forced Farzat to close down al-Domari. He has been called "one of the most famous cultural figures in the Arab world". In December 2012, Farzat was awarded Gebran Tueni prize in Lebanon.

Syrian Civil War
During the ongoing Syrian Civil War, Farzat had been more direct in his anti-government cartoons, specifically targeting government figures, particularly al-Assad. Following the fall of Tripoli in late August to anti-government rebels seeking to topple Libyan leader Muammar al-Gaddafi, Farzat published a cartoon depicting a sweaty Bashar al-Assad clutching a briefcase running to catch a ride with Gaddafi who is anxiously driving a getaway car. Other cartoons Farzat published previously include one where al-Assad is whitewashing the shadow of large Syrian security force officer while the actual officer remains untouched with the caption reading "Lifting the emergency law" and another showing al-Assad dressed in a military uniform flexing his arm in front of a mirror. The mirror's reflection shows Assad being a dominant muscular figure contrasting with his actual slim stature.On 25 August 2011, Farzat was reportedly pulled from his vehicle in Umayyad Square in central Damascus by masked gunmen believed to be part of the security forces and a pro-government militia. The men assaulted him, focusing mainly on his hands, and dumped him on the side of the airport road where passersby found him and took him to a hospital. According to one of his relatives, the security forces notably targeted his hands with both being broken and then told Farzat it was "just a warning". His brother As'aad, however, claims Farzat was kidnapped from his home around 5 am by five gunmen and then taken to the airport road after being beaten "savagely". The gunmen then warned him "not to satirize Syria's leaders". The Local Coordination Committee (LCC), an activist group representing the rebellion in Syria, stated that his briefcase and the drawings in them were confiscated by the assailants.In response to news of Farzat's ordeal, Syrian opposition members expressed outrage and several online activists changed their Facebook profile picture with that of a hospitalized Farzat in solidarity with the cartoonist. The incident provoked an outpouring of solidarity by cartoonists in the Arab world and internationally. Egyptian Al Sharouk's Waleed Taher had drawn a map of the Arab world with a face emerging out of Syria screaming "They beat up Ali Farzat, World!" Egypt's Al Masry Al Youm published a cartoon depicting a man with two amputated hands, taken aback by how another person guessed that he was a cartoonist. In the Lebanese daily Al Akhbar Nidal al-Khairy published a cartoon depicting Farzat's broken hand being stabbed by three security men smaller than the hand in size with the caption reading "The hands of the people are above their hands." Well-known Carlos Latuff of Brazil drew a rifle with a pen as its barrel pursuing a frantic al-Assad.The United States condemned the attack calling it "targeted, brutal". According to the BBC's Arab affair's analyst, Farzat's beating is a sign that the Syrian authorities "tolerance for dissent is touching zero." One month earlier, Ibrahim al-Qashoush, the alleged composer of a popular anti-government song, was found dead with his vocal cords removed.Following the attack Farzat stated that he would not meet with al-Assad any longer, although he was not sure if al-Assad directly ordered the assault against him. Farzat said he would continue to criticize al-Assad, stating "I was born to be a cartoonist, to oppose, to have differences with governments that do these bad things. This is what I do."

Style
Farzat's drawings are centred around themes involving criticism of bureaucracy, corruption and hypocrisy within the government and the wealthy elite. His drawings, typically without captions, are noted for their scathing criticism and for depicting types rather than individuals. Through his cutting caricatures he gained the respect of many Arabs while drawing the ire of their governments. However, since the uprising in Syria began Farzat has been more direct in his caricatures, depicting actual figures including the President of Syria, Bashar al-Assad.

Collections
A Pen of Damascus Steel: The Political Cartoons of an Arab Master (2005) Published by Cune Press www.cunepress.com
Passage 3:
Alireza Jamshidi
Dr Alireza Jamshidi (or Ali-Reza Jamshidi) is an official spokesman for Iran's judiciary, headed by Mahmoud Shahroudi. In that capacity, he holds regular news conferences. As he has little other public presence, his name is associated mainly with stories he has promulgated:

Imprisonment of members of the Baháʼí Faith because of their religionProsecution of doctors carrying out HIV/AIDS treatment and prevention programs, apparently because of links with the United StatesExecutions of juvenile offenders such as that of Mohammad Hassanzadeh for a crime committed at the age of fourteen years.Denial of punishments such as stoning, which he claimed were falsely attributed to Iran by Western media
Capital punishment for “insulting religious sanctities and laws, and homosexuality.”
Passage 4:
Abu Luqman
Ali Moussa Al-Shawakh, (1973 –17 April 2018) known by his kunya Abu Luqman, Abu Ayyub al-Ansari or Ali al-Hamoud, was a Syrian man and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant governor of Raqqa, Syria as of July 2015. He used to be governor of Aleppo province.

History
Abu Luqman was born in as-Sahl village in Raqqa province. He studied law at the University of Aleppo. He is from the Ajeel clan of Raqqa. It is claimed he used to have a Sufi orientation because he followed Mahmud al-Aghasi (known as Abu Qaqa) who was the leader of Ghuraba al-Sham.
He was freed from Sednaya Prison, Damascus in the summer of 2011 by President Bashar al-Assad, at the outset of the uprising against the Syrian government.

ISIL activity
According to Ibrahim Muslem, a human-rights activist quoted by The Wall Street Journal, "Abu Luqman decides who gets the oil". At Mr. Luqman's discretion, smugglers pay for fuel and load it into tanker trucks. Refined products from the Akrish refinery are driven more than 200 miles to Syrian villages near the Turkish border, according to Mr. Muslem.
Mohammed al-Saleh, a spokesman for the advocacy group Raqqa is Being Slaughtered Silently, quoted in The Wall Street Journal, said Abu Luqman replaced several foreign generals with locals after the loss of the town of Tell Abyad.
He was also responsible for the execution of Abu Saad al-Hadram, Jabhat al-Nusra's commander for Raqqa province.

2014
In early 2014, he was ISIL's chief interrogator in Raqqa province. As of April 2014, he was the IS emir of Raqqa province. In this role, he was the primary official responsible for appointing other ISIL leaders, distributing fighters among the various IS fighting fronts, and publicizing ISIL military operations. In mid-2014, he ordered the beheading of two hostages held by ISIL.
As of late 2014, he was a member of ISIL's eight-member governing council. His responsibilities for ISIL included frequently traveling across Syria to transfer ISIL prisoners. Also in late 2014, he changed his name when he was reported dead in the press as a security measure.

2015
In early 2015, he  was a member of an ISIL governance council chaired by IS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. As of early 2015, he was the senior figure in charge of ISIL detention of Western hostages.In June 2015, he was the governor of Aleppo and the security emir for Syria responsible for foreign fighters. Previously as governor of Raqqa, he was responsible for executions. In July 2015, he was reappointed governor of Raqqa and was the de facto chief in Raqqa, overseeing security affairs. As of mid-2015, he was ISIL's overall security amir at a Raqqa detention facility holding more than 1,000 ISIL foreign recruits who had refused to fight.

US and UN sanctions
On 29 September 2015 he was added to the United States Department of Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control Specially Designated Nationals List.The US Department of Treasury further describes his role, saying "Al-Shawakh is being designated for acting for or on behalf of ISIL, an entity designated pursuant to E.O. 13224. As of mid-2015, Syrian national al-Shawakh served as ISIL’s governor for Raqqa, Syria, after having served as ISIL’s senior security official for Syria and as governor in Aleppo, roles in which he directed combat assignments for foreign fighters.   Al-Shawakh was in charge of ISIL’s detention of foreign hostages, and oversaw the appointment of other ISIL leaders.  Al-Shawakh supervised security matters, including executions, interrogations, and transfers of ISIL prisoners, at an Raqqa detention facility used to hold foreign hostages and ISIL foreign recruits who had refused to fight.  In mid-2014, al-Shawakh ordered the beheadings of two ISIL hostages.  Al-Shawakh also served on a governance council chaired by ISIL leader and U.S. and UN-designated SDGT Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi (AKA Dr. Ibrahim al-Badri)".He is also sanctioned by the United Nations who said, "Ali Musa al-Shawakh was listed on 29 February 2016 pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 4 of resolution 2161 (2014) as being associated with Al-Qaida for “participating in the financing, planning, facilitating, preparing, or perpetrating of acts or activities by, in conjunction with, under the name of, on behalf of, or in support of” the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), listed as Al-Qaida in Iraq (QDe.115)".

Death
Abu Luqman was reportedly killed by an Iraqi airstrike on 17 April 2018.
Passage 5:
Ali Loke
Ali Loke (née Hemingway) (born 26 May 1993 in Stevenage) is a Welsh professional squash player. She has competed in the main draw of multiple professional PSA tournaments. As of April 2019, she was ranked number 77 in the world and was the 2nd-highest internationally ranked player in Wales.
Passage 6:
Sultan Buyung
Sultan Buyung or Ali Ri'ayat Syah II (died 28 June 1589) was the ninth sultan of Aceh in northern Sumatra. He had a short and contested reign from 1585/85 to 1589, ending with his violent demise.

Indrapura origins
Sultan Buyung did not belong to the sultan's family of Aceh but originated from Indrapura on the west coast of Sumatra. His background is known from epigraphic data: he was the son of Munawwar Syah, son of Muhammad Syah, son of Almalik Zainuddin. This indicates that Indrapura had been ruled by a Muslim dynasty since at least 1500. The sister of Sultan Buyung, Raja Dewi, was married to Sultan Mughal alias Sri Alam who was sultan of Aceh for a brief period in 1579. At a time the prince went to Aceh to be with his widowed sister. When he had stayed there for two months the current sultan Alauddin Mansur Syah was murdered. This happened in early 1585 according to the chronicles but in 1586 according to a Portuguese account.

Contested reign
After the murder of Alauddin Mansur Syah, Sultan Buyung was raised to the throne with the throne name Sultan Ali Ri'ayat Syah. The precise reasons why he was selected are not known to us, but there was apparently a lack of grown-up candidates. The old sultan left a young grandson, Raja Asyem, who may have been supported by part of the orang kayas (grandees) but was too young to reign. Raja Asyem was protected by an old military of humble background, the later sultan Alauddin Ri'ayat Syah Sayyid al-Mukammal who had allegedly murdered the boy's grandfather. Thus Aceh appears to have been politically divided during Sultan Buyung's brief reign. Of political events, we only know that the hostilities with the Portuguese in Melaka ceased in his reign. Relations between the Portuguese and the leading Malay kingdom Johor deteriorated after 1585 and the Johorese suffered a disastrous military defeat in 1587. As a consequence of this an Acehnese envoy appeared in Melaka and a peace was concluded. The result of all this was that the sea-roads between the Malay Peninsula and Sumatra became free and trade expanded greatly. The peace held on for the next 19 years. Finally, the sultan was murdered under unclear circumstances on 28 June 1589 by "all the grandees" of the kingdom. Thus he was the fourth ruler in succession to be killed. The throne was now taken by Alauddin Ri'ayat Syah Sayyid al-Mukammal, who claimed descent from the 15th-century rulers of Aceh. His accession made an end to ten years of violent political infighting.
Passage 7:
Albertus Seba
Albertus or Albert Seba (May 12, 1665, Etzel near Friedeburg – May 2, 1736, Amsterdam) was a Dutch pharmacist, zoologist, and collector. Seba accumulated one of the largest cabinets of curiosities in the Netherlands during his time. He sold one of his cabinets in 1717 to Peter the Great of Russia. His later collections were auctioned after his death. He published descriptions of his collections in a lavishly illustrated 4 volume Thesaurus. His early work on taxonomy and natural history influenced Linnaeus.

Career
Born in Etzel, Seba moved to Amsterdam as an apprentice and, around 1700, opened a pharmacy near the harbour. Seba asked sailors and ship surgeons to bring exotic plants and animal products he could use for preparing drugs. Seba also started to collect snakes, birds, insects, shells, and lizards in his house.
From 1711, he delivered various medicines to the Russian court in Saint Petersburg and sometimes accepted fresh ginger as payment. Seba promoted his collection to Robert Erskine (1674–1719), the tsar's head physician, and in early 1716 Peter the Great bought the complete collection. In the following several years, Seba managed to develop another collection of natural specimens, which grew more extensive than the first.
Through Seba, Frederik Ruysch—a well-known Amsterdam physician and anatomist—also sold his collection to the tsar. Both collections so expanded Peter's imperial cabinet of curiosities that they led to the establishment of the Russian Academy of Sciences and the construction of a new building for the Kunstkammer, opened in 1728 as the first Russian public museum.In October 1728, Seba had become a Fellow of the Royal Society. In 1734, he had published a Latin "treasury" (thesaurus) of animal specimens with beautiful engravings. Its full title was Locupletissimi Rerum Naturalium Thesauri Accurata Descriptio et Iconibus Artificiosissimus Expressio per Universam Physices Historiam ("A Careful Description and Exceedingly Artistic Expression in Pictures of the Exceedingly Rich Treasury of Nature Throughout the Entire History of Natural Science"), traditionally shortened and abbreviated in Latin as the Rerum Naturalium Thesaurus ("A Treasury of Nature") or as Seba's Thesaurus. A traditional English version of the name has been A Cabinet of Natural Curiosities, after the early modern cabinets of curiosities. The last two of the four volumes were published after his death (1759 and 1765). Today, an original 446-plate volume is in the collection of the Koninklijke Bibliotheek in The Hague, Netherlands. Recently, a complete example of the Thesaurus sold for $460,000 at an auction. In 2001, Taschen Books published a reprint of the Thesaurus, with a second printing in 2006.In 1735, Carl Linnaeus visited Seba twice. Linnaeus found Seba's collection to be useful for the classification system which Linnaeus was developing, and Linnaeus used many of Seba's specimens as holotypes for original descriptions of species. Seba's inclusion of fantastic beasts such as the hydra influenced Linnaeus to include the "Paradoxa", species which may exist but which have not been found, in his Systema Naturae.Seba himself did not use Linnaeus' taxonomy, as it was published only a year before his death. However, he did organize his Thesaurus by physical similarities, leading to some similarities with Linnaeus' larger project.In 1752, several years after Seba's death, his second collection was auctioned in Amsterdam. Several objects were purchased by Russia's Academy of Sciences.

Taxa named in honor of Seba
Seba is commemorated in the scientific names of two species and one subspecies of snakes: Ninia sebae, Python sebae, and Oxyrhopus petola sebae.

Gallery
Passage 8:
Ali Elmusrati
Almoatasembellah Ali Mohamed Al-Musrati (Arabic: المعتصم بالله علي محمد المصراتي; born 6 April 1996), known simply as Al-Musrati, is a Libyan professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for Primeira Liga club Braga and the Libya national team.

Club career
Vitória de Guimarães
Reserve team
In January 2017, he signed a three-and-a-half-year deal at Vitória de Guimarães of Portugal's Primeira Liga, on the recommendation of their former player Romano Sion. He began playing for their reserve team in LigaPro, and on 4 March 2018 scored his first goal to equalise in a 1–1 draw away to União.

First team
On 5 August 2019, Al-Musrati made his debut for the first team, playing the full 90 minutes of a 1–0 win at Feirense in the second round of the Taça da Liga. Thirteen days later he made his Primeira Liga debut in a 1–1 home draw with Boavista and was third-place in the vote for the league's best midfielder of the month, behind Bruno Fernandes and Pizzi. On 12 December, he scored his only goal for the first team, equalising in a 3–2 comeback win at Eintracht Frankfurt in the group stage of the UEFA Europa League; his club was already eliminated.

Loan to Rio Ave
Al-Musrati was loaned to Rio Ave of the same league on 29 January 2020, for the rest of the season. He, Diogo Figueiras and Nuno Santos were sent off on 17 June in a 2–1 home loss to Benfica.

Braga
On 31 July 2020, Al-Musrati signed a four-year deal at Braga, joining his former Rio Ave manager Carlos Carvalhal. His first goal was on 26 November, to open a 3–3 home draw with Leicester City in the Europa League group stage; three days later he struck for the first time in the top flight to win at the Estádio Municipal de Braga against Farense. He was voted the league's Player of the Month for February 2021.

International career
Al-Musrati was first called up for Libya at the 2014 African Nations Championship in South Africa, and played all but one game including the penalty shootout win over Ghana in the final.

Career statistics
Club
As of match played 4 June 2023

International
As of match played 28 March 2023

International goals
Scores and results list Libya's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Elmusrati goal.

Honours
Braga

Taça de Portugal: 2020–21Libya

African Nations Championship: 2014
Passage 9:
Ali Dinar
Ali Dinar (Arabic: علي دينار; 1856 – November 6, 1916) was a Sultan of the Sultanate of Darfur and ruler from the Keira dynasty.  
In 1898, with the decline of the Mahdists, he managed to regain Darfur's independence.

A rebellion led by him in 1915—in the context of his giving his support to the Ottoman Empire during the First World War— led the British government to dispatch the Anglo-Egyptian Darfur Expedition, in which he was killed in action, after which his Sultanate was incorporated into the Anglo-Egyptian Condominium.

Further reading
'Alī Dīnār, Last Sultan of Darfur, 1898–1916
Passage 10:
Mohammad Jahromi
Mohammad Jahromi (born 1958) is a former Iranian governor and politician who served as minister of labor and social affairs from 2005 to 2009.

Early life and education
Jahromi was born in Tehran in 1958. He holds a bachelor's degree in mathematics. He also received a PhD in strategic management.

Career
Jahromi was the deputy chairman for executive affairs of the Guardian Council. He was also one of the founding members of the IRGC in the provinces of Gilan and Mazandaran in 1979. He acted as an IRGC commander in Noor. In addition, he served as the governor of different provinces, including Zanjan (1982-1984), Lorestan (1984-1989) and Semnan (1984-1999). He was among the members of secretariat of the State Expediency Council.On 24 August 2005, he became the minister of labor and social affairs in the first cabinet of Mahmoud Ahmedinejad. He was approved by the Majlis with 197 votes in favor. During his tenure, he was considered to be the economic spokesperson of the government. In late 2008, he announced his candidacy for the presidential election of 2009. He was succeeded by Reza Sheykholeslam in August 2009 as minister of labor and social affairs.Immediately after his removal from office, Jahromi was appointed deputy of the judiciary chief, Sadeq Larijani, in August 2009. Next Jahromi was named chief of the state-run Bank Saderat.

Sanctions
Jahromi was sanctioned by the European Union on 1 December 2011 due to his presidency at the Saderat Bank, which was also sanctioned by the Union. He was omitted from the sanction list in October 2012.

Personal life
Jahromi is the son-in-law of Ali Akbar Nategh Noori.