Passage 1:
Winter Sleepers
Winter Sleepers (German: Winterschläfer meaning "hibernators") is a 1997 German film directed by Tom Tykwer. It was premiered at the Locarno International Film Festival.

Plot
The film is set in the deeply snowy alpine winter resort of Berchtesgaden in Bavaria; the story begins shortly after Christmas Day, with five people returning, not all of whom are connected.
Laura, a surgical nurse, and Rebecca, a translator, live together in the house that Laura inherited from her great aunt. René is a projectionist in a cinema. Marco, Rebecca's boyfriend, is a skiing instructor who drives an expensive Alfa Romeo. Theo is a middle-aged farmer who lives with his wife Edith, their daughter, and two sons on a poor farm nearby.
When Marco arrives, he is greeted passionately by Rebecca, and tugged into the house. He leaves his car open outside, with the key still in the ignition. It is the early morning, and René, walking drunkenly home, passes the house, taking pictures, among other things, of Rebecca and Marco having sex inside. Finally, he climbs into the car and drives away. Theo, meanwhile, is taking his horse to the veterinarian, but doesn't let his daughter come with him. He doesn't notice when she sneaks into the horse trailer with the animal. Theo, distracted by his sons calling him on a walkie-talkie and driving on the wrong side of the road, almost collides with René. The Alfa Romeo crashes off the road and into a snowdrift and Rene is not hurt; however, the horse trailer is flipped over and the girl and horse badly injured. Theo is dazed, but René, rather than helping, takes a photo of him, and as he walks off, Theo is stricken by a strange snake-like scar on the back of René's head.  When Theo is helped out of his truck by a passing driver, he shoots the injured horse on the spot and takes his daughter to the hospital where Laura works.
There, Laura hears Theo becoming obsessed with finding the man who caused the accident, to prove his own innocence: no-one believes that there was another car, because it is buried under snow. All he remembers was the shape of René's scar. The young girl is operated-on and is in a coma, between life and death.
Meanwhile, Marco reports the car theft to the police and becomes exasperated by their lack of progress, claiming they aren't taking the theft seriously. Rebecca is becoming discontent with her relationship with him; she sees him as taking her for granted, jealous without cause, and lacking ambition. Outside of their passionate sex life, they argue constantly. Laura befriends René after a play in which she was performing; he gives her a free pass for the cinema where he works, and eventually he shows her his photos, which he keeps in an album with numbers and dates. The reason he takes them is his short-term memory problems which were caused by a head injury while serving in the Army; without photos he would have no way of remembering places or people.
Theo and Edith have to shut the farm down because of debt and move to a smaller place near the resort. Theo draws a picture of the shape he remembers, copies it and sticks them up around town, appealing for anyone to come forward if they recognize the scar on the back of the head (like that of René). But Edith takes down all his posters, believing he is only trying to escape his own guilt and explaining that she's ashamed.
Marco has started an affair with Nina, a young student from the skiing class he teaches. He invites her to his boss's house one evening while his boss is out of town, pretending it is his. Later, he has to go to the hospital after burning himself on the coffee machine and is treated by Laura. While he is there, Theo's daughter dies.
Theo, investigating the site of the car crash again, finds the buried car and comes across documents showing Marco to be the owner. Theo goes to Marco's workplace (the ski area) and is told Marco is skiing in the mountains, with Nina. They become separated in fog, and Nina injures herself by falling off a ledge and onto a tree. After falling out of the tree, Nina staggers to Theo's new residence and is tended to by Edith.  Desperately trying to find Nina, Marco meets Theo on the mountainside where Theo sets his dog onto Marco.  When Marco demands to know what's happening, Theo explains only "You killed her."  Not knowing about Theo's daughter, Marco starts to panic about losing Nina.  After injuring Theo's aggressive German shepherd, Marco manages to ski hurriedly away before going over the edge of a cliff, and he falls, seemingly forever, into a crevasse in the valley, to his death.
In another coincidence, Rebecca and the injured Nina depart on the same train, but don't know each other. The film ends with the birth of René and Laura's child.

Production
The film is based on the novel Expense of Spirit by Anne-Françoise Pyszora;  however, this original story does not contain the character of Theo, and takes place in summer: Tykwer felt the film would be more attractive in a snowy winter setting. The story of the two couples is faithful to the novel.The soundtrack album was released on 3 November 1997 on Ariola Records/BMG. It contains the songs "Untitled #1" by Spain and Fratres by Arvo Pärt. The CD is no longer in print.
Passage 2:
Dino Risi
Dino Risi (23 December 1916 – 7 June 2008) was an Italian film director. With Mario Monicelli, Luigi Comencini, Nanni Loy and Ettore Scola, he was one of the masters of commedia all'italiana.

Biography
Risi was born in Milan. He had an older brother, Fernando, a cinematographer, and a younger brother, Nelo (1920–2015), a director and writer. At the age of twelve, Risi became an orphan and was looked after by relatives and friends of his family. He studied medicine but refused to become a psychiatrist, as his parents wishedRisi started his career in cinema as an assistant director to cinema figures such as Mario Soldati and Alberto Lattuada. Later he began directing his own films and was credited with giving early opportunities to future acting stars such as Sophia Loren and Vittorio Gassman. His 1966 film Treasure of San Gennaro was entered into the 5th Moscow International Film Festival where it won a Silver Prize.His biggest hits were Poor, But Handsome (Poveri ma belli), followed by two sequels, which he also directed; A Difficult Life (Una vita difficile); The Easy Life (Il sorpasso); Opiate '67 or, in a cut version, 15 From Rome (I Mostri); and Scent of a Woman (Profumo di Donna), which was remade by Martin Brest starring Al Pacino in 1992.In 2002, he was awarded the Golden Lion – Honorary Award (Leone d'oro alla carriera) at the Venice Film Festival for his life-time work. Two of his films, Il giovedì and Il commissario Lo Gatto, were shown in a retrospective section on Italian comedy at the 67th Venice International Film Festival.He died on 7 June 2008 at his residence in Rome. He was 91 and was survived by two children, Claudio Risi (1948–2020) and Marco Risi (1951), both film directors.

Filmography
Passage 3:
Pretty But Poor
Belle ma povere (internationally released as Pretty But Poor) is a 1957 Italian comedy film directed by Dino Risi. It is the sequel of Poveri ma belli and was followed by Poveri milionari.

Plot
Romolo and Salvatore are two Roman boys, engaged respectively to Annamaria and Marisa, Salvatore's first sister and Romulus's second. The two girls would like to get married soon, but the two engaged couples have neither a steady job nor the intention of putting their heads straight: then they unwillingly decide to follow a radio engineering course in an evening school where however Romulus is committed while Salvatore quickly abandons them. Education.
The two are great friends but they quarrel when Giovanna, an old flame of both of them, returns. She is the latter after leaving her beloved Hugh she works in the jewelry of her boyfriend Franco. Romulus thinks that Salvatore is not suitable to marry his sister, and Salvatore thinks the same of Romulus and his sister, and as long as they are both idle the marriage for both will not take place.
But Annamaria and Marisa suffer even more. Marisa, understood that Salvatore will never have a steady job, decides to go to work as a clerk in a shoe shop where she meets a charming young man who courts her. Salvatore, fearing to lose Marisa, decides to become a thief. Meanwhile Romulus, to open his radio shop, borrows money from Giovanna's boyfriend who, to make her partner jealous and lead him to the wedding, again feigns interest in Romulus, arousing Annamaria's jealousy.
Just when Romulus decides to return the money he had on loan to Giovanna, Salvatore with the help of an accomplice decides to break into Franco's jewelry and steal everything. However, he is stopped by Marisa, who explains to Salvatore that there is nothing between her and the young man. Even between Romulus and Annamaria everything is clarified. Romulus and Salvatore understand that what matters is inner wealth.
The marriages of Romulus with Annamaria and of Salvatore with Marisa are then celebrated on the same day, in the same church, that of Piazza Navona, with the same clothes. And also Giovanna finally gets married with Franco.

Cast
Marisa Allasio as  Giovanna
Maurizio Arena as Romolo
Renato Salvatori as Salvatore
Lorella De Luca as Marisa
Alessandra Panaro as Anna Maria
Riccardo Garrone as Franco
Memmo Carotenuto as Alvaro
Gildo Bocci
Marisa Castellani
Carlo Giuffrè
Nino Vingelli
Passage 4:
Poveri milionari
Poveri milionari (internationally released as Poor Millionaires) is a 1959 Italian comedy film directed by Dino Risi. It is the final chapter in the trilogy started with Poveri ma belli.

Cast
Maurizio Arena: Romolo
Renato Salvatori: Salvatore
Alessandra Panaro: Anna Maria
Lorella De Luca: Marisa
Sylva Koscina: Alice
Memmo Carotenuto: Alvaro
Gildo Bocci: Sor Nerone
Roberto Rey: Psichiatra
Lina Ferri: Sora Cecilia
Fred Buscaglione: himself
Passage 5:
Tom Tykwer
Tom Tykwer (German: [ˈtɪkvɐ]; born 23 May 1965) is a German film director, producer, screenwriter, and composer. He is best known internationally for directing the thriller films Run Lola Run (1998), Heaven (2002), Perfume: The Story of a Murderer (2006), and The International (2009). He collaborated with The Wachowskis as co-director for the science fiction film Cloud Atlas (2012) and the Netflix series Sense8 (2015–2018), and worked on the score for Lana Wachowski's The Matrix Resurrections (2021). Tykwer is also well known as the co-creator of the internationally acclaimed German television series Babylon Berlin (2017–).

Early life
Tykwer was born in Wuppertal, West Germany. Fascinated by film from an early age, he started making amateur Super 8 films at the age of eleven. He later helped out at a local arthouse cinema in order to see more films, including those for which he was too young to buy tickets. After graduating from high school, he applied to numerous film schools around Europe, unsuccessfully.

Career
1986-1995
Tykwer moved to Berlin where he worked as a projectionist. In 1987, at the age of 22, he became the programmer of the Moviemento cinema and became known to German directors as a film buff. In Berlin, Tykwer met and befriended the filmmaker Rosa von Praunheim, who urged him to create stories from his own experience. He suggested, for example, that Tykwer record arguments with his girlfriend, and turn them into a short film. Because (1990) was screened at the Hof International Film Festival and well received by the audience, which inspired Tykwer to continue pursuing filmmaking.
He made a second short film, Epilog (1992), for which he took on personal financial debt, but he also gained valuable technical film making experience. Tykwer wrote the screenplay for, and directed, his first feature film, the psychological thriller Deadly Maria (1993). It aired on German television and had a limited theatrical release in Germany and the international film festival circuit.
In 1994, Tykwer founded the production company X Filme Creative Pool with Stefan Arndt, Wolfgang Becker, and Dani Levy.

1996-2005
Tykwer and Becker wrote the screenplay for the comedy Life Is All You Get (1997), while working on Winter Sleepers (1997), Tykwer's second feature and a much bigger and more complex production than Deadly Maria. Winter Sleepers brought Tykwer to the attention of German cineastes and film festivals, but he was struggling financially.His next feature film, Run Lola Run (1998), became the most successful German film of 1998, earned $7 mln at the US box office, and elevated Tykwer to international fame. As Lola was becoming a success worldwide, Tykwer was already at work on his next film, The Princess and the Warrior (2000), a love story about a nurse and a former soldier, which was shot in his home town of Wuppertal.Miramax produced his next film, Heaven (2002), based on a screenplay by Polish filmmaker Krzysztof Kieślowski, which was shot in English, starred Cate Blanchett and Giovanni Ribisi, and was filmed in Turin and Tuscany.

2006-2015
Tykwer was approached by French producers to film a short contribution to Paris, je t'aime (2006), a film composed of 20 short films by many famous directors depicting love in Paris. Tykwer shot the 10-minute short film, True, with Natalie Portman and Melchior Beslon. He shot the film quickly with almost no pre-production. The result, Tykwer later said, "symbolises an entire life for me, in just ten minutes."Tykwer shot the film Pink Children (2012) together with 4 German directors about their mentor Rosa von Praunheim.
Tykwer's next film was Perfume: The Story of a Murderer (2006), an adaptation of the novel Perfume by the German novelist Patrick Süskind. It was filmed in the Spanish cities of Figueras, Girona and Barcelona. Tykwer later made his Hollywood debut with the big-budgeted 2009 conspiracy thriller The International, starring Clive Owen and Naomi Watts, which was shot in several locations ranging from Berlin, Milan, New York City, and Istanbul. The film received a lukewarm reception from the public and critics alike.

2016-present
Tykwer directed 2016's A Hologram for the King, starring Tom Hanks and Sarita Choudhury, based on a novel by American novelist Dave Eggers. In 2017, Tykwer co-created the television series Babylon Berlin, directing and writing the screenplay; set in 1920s Berlin, the series comprised 16 episodes in its first two seasons. A third season premiered in 2020. Later on, in 2023, the fifth season has been announced.In 2018, Tykwer headed the 68th Berlinale.

Musical composition
Since Winter Sleepers, the music for all of Tykwer's films (with the exception of Heaven) has been composed by Johnny Klimek, Reinhold Heil, and Tykwer, unusual for a film director. The trio gave themselves the name "Pale 3", and it originally worked as a film scoring group, then expanding to produce music unrelated to film.

Critical reception
Both Tykwer's directing and his musical contributions have received accolades.

Awards
1994: Bavarian Film Awards, Best New Director
1998: Bavarian Film Awards, Best Production
2005: State-Award of the Film Commission North Rhine-Westphalia
2006: Bavarian Film Awards, Best Director
2012: Golden Globe Awards, Best Original Score for Cloud Atlas (Nominated)

Filmography
Other roles

Inglourious Basterds (2009) — German dialogue translator.

Personal life
In 2009, Tykwer signed a petition in support of film director Roman Polanski, calling for his release after Polanski was arrested in Switzerland in relation to his 1977 sexual abuse case.
Passage 6:
Roman Smishko
Roman Smishko (Ukrainian: Роман Володимирович Смішко) is a retired Ukrainian professional footballer who played as a goalkeeper.
He is a younger brother of Ukrainian defender Bohdan Smishko.

Career
He played for clubs in Estonian, Lithuanian and Belarusian top levels.In the 2014 Meistriliiga season he set the league clean sheet record by not conceding a single goal for 1,281 minutes between 5 April 2014 and 25 July 2014 which is 30 minutes short and allegedly the second best result in countries top flight after Edwin Van der Sar's 1,311 minutes.
Passage 7:
Dmitri Varfolomeyev (footballer, born 1978)
Dmitri Nikolayevich Varfolomeyev (Russian: Дмитрий Николаевич Варфоломеев; born 15 March 1978) is a Russian former football player.He is a younger brother of Sergei Varfolomeyev.

Honours
Zhenis AstanaKazakhstan Premier League champion: 2001
Kazakhstan Cup winner: 2001
Passage 8:
Vadim Vlasov
Vadim Nikolayevich Vlasov (Russian: Вадим Николаевич Власов; born 19 December 1980) is a former Russian football player.Vlasov played in the Russian Premier League with FC Lokomotiv Nizhny Novgorod.
He is a younger brother of Dmitri Vlasov.
Passage 9:
La Bestia humana
La Bestia humana is a 1957 Argentine film whose story is based on the 1890 novel La Bête Humaine by the French writer Émile Zola.

External links
La Bestia humana at IMDb
Passage 10:
Miloš Zličić
Miloš Zličić (Serbian Cyrillic: Милош Зличић; born 29 December 1999) is a Serbian football forward who plays for Smederevo 1924. He is a younger brother of Lazar Zličić.

Club career
Vojvodina
Born in Novi Sad, Zličić passed Vojvodina youth school and joined the first team at the age of 16. Previously, he was nominated for the best player of the "Tournament of Friendship", played in 2015. He made his senior debut in a friendly match against OFK Bačka during the spring half of the 2015–16 season, along with a year younger Mihajlo Nešković. Zličić made an official debut for Vojvodina in the 16th fixture of the 2016–17 Serbian SuperLiga season, played on 19 November 2016 against Novi Pazar.

Loan to Cement
In July 2018, Zličić joined the Serbian League Vojvodina side Cement Beočin on half-year loan deal. Zličić made his debut in an official match for Cement on 18 August, in the first round of the new season of the Serbian League Vojvodina, in a defeat against Omladinac. He scored his first senior goal on 25 August, in victory against Radnički.

International career
Zličić was called in Serbia U15 national team squad during the 2014, and he also appeared for under-16 national team between 2014 and 2015. He was also member of a U17 level later. After that, he was member of a U18 level, and scored goal against Slovenia U18.

Career statistics
As of 26 February 2020