Passage 1:
Henry Krause
Henry J. "Red" Krause, Jr. (August 28, 1913 – February 20, 1987) was an American football offensive lineman in the National Football League for the Brooklyn Dodgers and the Washington Redskins.  He played college football at St. Louis University.
Passage 2:
John Mackay (poet)
John Mackay (Scottish Gaelic: Iain (Dall) MacAoidh; 1656–1754), known as Am Pìobaire Dall (The Blind Piper), was a Scottish Gaelic poet and composer, and the grandfather of William Ross.
Passage 3:
Kaya Alp
Kaya Alp (Ottoman Turkish: قایا الپ, lit. 'Brave Rock') was, according to Ottoman tradition, the son of Kızıl Buğa or Basuk and the father of Suleyman Shah. He was the grandfather of Ertuğrul Ghazi, the father of the founder of the Ottoman Empire, Osman I. He was also famously known for being the successing name of Ertokus Bey’s son Kaya Alp. He was a descendant of the ancestor of his tribe, Kayı son of Gun son of Oghuz Khagan, the legendary progenitor of the Oghuz Turks.
Passage 4:
Zhao Shoushan
Zhao Shoushan (simplified Chinese: 赵寿山; traditional Chinese: 趙壽山; pinyin: Zhào Shòushān; 12 November 1894 – 20 June 1965) was a KMT general and later Chinese Communist Party politician. He is the grandfather of Zhao Leji.

Career
Zhao Shoushan was born in Hu County, Shaanxi in 1894. After the foundation of the People's Republic of China, Zhao was the CCP Chairman of Qinghai and Governor of Shaanxi.

External links
(in Chinese) Biography of Zhao Shoushan, Shaanxi Daily July 9, 2006.
Passage 5:
John Westley
Rev. John Wesley (1636–78) was an English nonconformist minister. He was the grandfather of John Wesley (founder of Methodism).

Life
John Wesly (his own spelling), Westley, or Wesley was probably born at Bridport, Dorset, although some authorities claim he was born in Devon, the son of the Rev. Bartholomew Westley and Ann Colley, daughter of Sir Henry Colley of Carbery Castle in County Kildare, Ireland. He was educated at Dorchester Grammar School and as a student of New Inn Hall, Oxford, where he matriculated on 23 April 1651, and graduated B.A. on 23 January 1655, and M.A. on 4 July 1657. After his appointment as an evangelist, he preached at Melcombe Regis, Radipole, and other areas in Dorset. Never episcopally ordained, he was approved by Oliver Cromwell's Commission of Triers in 1658 and appointed Vicar of Winterborne Whitechurch.The report of his interview in 1661 with Gilbert Ironside the elder, his diocesan, according to Alexander Gordon writing in the Dictionary of National Biography, shows him to have been an Independent. He was imprisoned for not using the Book of Common Prayer, imprisoned again and ejected in 1662. After the Conventicle Act 1664 he continued to preach in small gatherings at Preston and then Poole, until his death at Preston in 1678.

Family
He married a daughter of John White, who was related also to Thomas Fuller. White, the "Patriarch of Dorchester", married a sister of Cornelius Burges. Westley's eldest son was Timothy (born 1659). Their second son was Rev. Samuel Wesley, a High Church Anglican vicar and the father of John and Charles Wesley. A younger son, Matthew Wesley, remained a nonconformist, became a London apothecary, and died on 10 June 1737, leaving a son, Matthew, in India; he provided for some of his brother Samuel's daughters.

Notes
Additional sources
Matthews, A. G., "Calamy Revised", Oxford University Press, 1934, page 521. This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: "Wesley, Samuel (1662-1735)". Dictionary of National Biography. London: Smith, Elder & Co. 1885–1900.
Passage 6:
Dibyasambandh
Princess Dibyasambanna (Thai: พระวรวงศ์เธอ พระองค์เจ้าทิพยสัมพันธ์; RTGS: Phra Worawong Thoe Phra Ong Chao Thipphayasamphan; Née Her Serene Highness Princess (Mom Chao) Dibyasambanna Bhanubandh Thai: ทิพยสัมพันธ์ ภาณุพันธ์; RTGS: Thipphayasamphan Phanuphan; 17 May 1885 - 26 July 1908) was a Princess of Siam (later Thailand). She was a member of Siamese royal family, specifically the Bhanubandh family, as a daughter of Prince Bhanurangsi Savangwongse and Mom Liam.

Biography
Princess Dibyasambanna is the eldest child of Prince Bhanurangsi Savangwongse and Mom Liam, the princess born at Buraphaphirom Palace On 7 July 1885. As for the name, Dibyasambanna Bhanubandh was bestowed by King Chulalongkorn. As well as being close to King Chulalongkorn since childhood, Princess Dibyasambanna was married to Abhakara Kiartivongse, Prince of Chumphon on February 28, 1900. They had three sons: Prince Kiat Abhakara (Born and died on the same day), Prince Aditya Dibabha and Prince Rangsiyakorn Abhakara.
While Prince Rangsiyakorn Abhakara, the youngest son, had only 1 year old, an unexpected incident occurred when Princess Dibyasambanna died of poison on July 26, 1908. The royal fire ceremony began on 2 February 1908, which has dug a burial ground to be sent to cremate the cremation at the crematorium of Wat Debsirindrawas Ratchaworawiharn. The cremation ceremony was held on 3 February, with King Chulalongkorn become the president of the ceremony.
Passage 7:
Bhanurangsi Savangwongse
Bhanurangsi Savangwongse, the Prince Bhanubandhu Vongsevoradej (11 January 1859 – 13 June 1928)  (Thai: สมเด็จพระราชปิตุลาบรมพงศาภิมุข เจ้าฟ้าภาณุรังษีสว่างวงศ์ กรมพระยาภาณุพันธุวงศ์วรเดช) was a son of King Mongkut of Siam and Queen Debsirindra.Although the Prince held a number of posts in the government of his elder brother, King Chulalongkorn, including the post of Commander-in-Chief of the Royal Siamese Army, he is best remembered as the founder of the Thai postal service and the first Field marshal in Royal Siamese Army during King Vajiravudh.His most famous son is the Formula One racer, Prince Birabongse Bhanutej Bhanubandh, better known as Prince Bira.

Early life and education
Prince Bhanurangsi Savangwongse born on 11 January 1860 at the Grand Palace, Bangkok. He has 3 brothers and sisters, including King Chulalongkorn, Princess Chandrmondol and Prince Chaturonrasmi. After 2 years, his mother died. Later, his father died when he was 10 years old. He was the scatterer of rice in the procession of the royal funeral of King Mongkut. When he was 12 years old King Chulalongkorn appointed him as Prince Brother, with a royal ceremony at the Dusit Maha Prasat Throne Hall. When he was 13 years old he was ordained as a novice at Wat Phra Kaew with Supreme Patriarch Pavares Variyalongkorn as a preceptor then went out to Wat Bowonniwet Vihara.He began his studies in the school of female teachers and began to study by himself. After that, he studied the books of Khmer and Pali at the Bureau of Phraya Priyatthi Dhammada when he is ordained. After that, he studied military education at the Bureau of the King's Guard since 1872 and learning the Thai language from Phraya Srisoonthorn Waham (Noi Ajarayangkul) including studying civil service traditions and royal traditions from Prince Mahamala, the Prince Bamrapporapak.

Careers
He carried out military service in a special officer rank, with a first lieutenant's uniform in Bureau of the King's Guard When King Chulalongkorn travelled to Singapore (2nd time) and Burma, parts of England throughout India including the rising districts of Siam along the western coast of Malaya. He held positions including Minister of the Council and Privy Council of King Chulalongkorn, Chancellor of the Ministry of Defense, The Privy Council of King Rama VI and the President and Privy Councilor in King Rama VII, Inspector General, Commander of the Navy Department and Director-General of the Post and Telegraph Department.

Death
Prince Bhanurangsi Savangwongse died on 13 June 1928 aged 68 at Buraphaphirom Palace.

Issue
He had 16 children, 9 sons and 7 daughters:

Princess Dibyasambandh
Prince Nibanna Bhanubongse
Prince Siriwongse Vadhanadej
Princess (unnamed)
Princess Chalermkhetramongmol
Prince Suriyon Yiembayab
Prince Ballap Danaya
Prince Daeng (stillborn)
Princess Khaimuk
Princess Rambhai Prabha
Prince Aphassorawongse
Prince Birabongse Bhanudej
Prince Norasetdha Suriyalaksana
Prince Chirasakdi Suprabhas (th:พระวรวงศ์เธอ พระองค์เจ้าจิรศักดิ์สุประภาต)
Princess Lek (died at six days old)

Ancestry
Passage 8:
Fred Le Deux
Frederick David Le Deux (born 4 December 1934) is a former Australian rules footballer who played with Geelong in the Victorian Football League (VFL). He is the grandfather of Tom Hawkins.

Early life
Le Deux grew up in Nagambie and attended Assumption College, after which he went to Bendigo to study teaching.

Football
While a student at Bendigo Teachers' Training College, Le Deux played for the Sandhurst Football Club. He then moved to Ocean Grove to take up a teaching position and in 1956 joined Geelong.A follower and defender, Le Deux made 18 appearances for Geelong over three seasons, from 1956 to 1958 He was troubled by a back injury in 1958, which kept him out of the entire 1959 VFL season.In 1960 he joined Victorian Football Association club Mordialloc, as he had transferred to a local technical school.

Family
Le Deux's daughter Jennifer was married to former Geelong player Jack Hawkins. Jennifer died in 2015. Their son, Tom Hawkins, currently plays for Geelong.
Passage 9:
Lyon Cohen
Lyon Cohen (born Yehuda Leib Cohen; May 11, 1868 – August 17, 1937) was a Polish-born Canadian businessman and a philanthropist. He was the grandfather of singer/poet Leonard Cohen.

Biography
Cohen was born in Congress Poland, part of the Russian Empire, to a Jewish family on May 11, 1868. He immigrated to Canada with his parents in 1871. He was educated at the McGill Model School and the Catholic Commercial Academy in Montreal. In 1888, he entered the firm of Lee & Cohen in Montreal; later became partner with his father in the firm of L. Cohen & Son; in 1895, he established W. R. Cuthbert & Co; in 1900, he organized the Canadian Improvement Co., a dredging contractor; in 1906, he founded The Freedman Co. in Montreal; and in May 1919, he organized and became President of Canadian Export Clothiers, Ltd.  The Freedman Company went on to become one of Montreal’s largest clothing companies.In 1897, Cohen and Samuel William Jacobs founded the Canadian Jewish Times, the first English-language Jewish newspaper in Canada. The newspaper promoted the Canadianization of recent East European Jewish immigrants and encouraged their acceptance of Canadian customs as Cohen felt that the old world customs of immigrant Jews were one of the main causes of anti-Semitism. In 1914, the paper was purchased by Hirsch Wolofsky, owner of the Yiddish-language Keneder Adler, who transformed it into the Canadian Jewish Chronicle.He died on August 17, 1937, at the age of 69.

Philanthropy
Cohen was elected the first president of the Canadian Jewish Congress in 1919 and organized the Jewish Immigrant Aid Services of Canada. Cohen was also a leader of the Young Men’s Hebrew Benevolent Society (later the Baron de Hirsch Institute) and the United Talmud Torahs, a Jewish day school in Montreal. He also served as president of Congregation Shaar Hashomayim and president of the Jewish Colonization Association in Canada.

Personal life
Cohen married Rachel Friedman of Montreal on February 17, 1891. She was the founder and President of Jewish Endeavour Sewing School. They had three sons and one daughter:

Nathan Bernard Cohen, who served as a lieutenant in the World War; he married Lithuanian Jewish immigrant Masha Klonitsky and they had one daughter and one son:
Esther Cohen and
singer/poet Leonard Cohen.
Horace Rives Cohen, who was a captain and quartermaster of his battalion in World War I;
Lawrence Zebulun Cohen, student at McGill University, and
Sylvia Lillian Cohen.
Passage 10:
Abd al-Muttalib
Shayba ibn Hāshim (Arabic: شَيْبَة إبْن هَاشِم; c. 497–578), better known as ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib, (Arabic: عَبْد ٱلْمُطَّلِب, lit. 'Servant of Muttalib') was the fourth chief of the Quraysh tribal confederation. He was the grandfather of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.

Early life
His father was Hashim ibn 'Abd Manaf,: 81  the progenitor of the distinguished Banu Hashim, a clan of the Quraysh tribe of Mecca. They claimed descent from Ismā'īl and Ibrāhīm. His mother was Salma bint Amr, from the Banu Najjar, a clan of the Khazraj tribe in Yathrib (later called Madinah). Hashim died while doing business in Gaza, before Abd al-Muttalib was born.: 81 His real name was "Shaiba" meaning 'the ancient one' or 'white-haired' because of the streak of white through his jet-black hair, and is sometimes also called Shaybah al-Ḥamd ("The white streak of praise").: 81–82  After his father's death he was raised in Yathrib with his mother and her family until about the age of eight, when his uncle Muttalib ibn Abd Manaf went to see him and asked his mother Salmah to entrust Shaybah to his care. Salmah was unwilling to let her son go and Shaiba refused to leave his mother without her consent. Muṭṭalib then pointed out that the possibilities Yathrib had to offer were incomparable to Mecca. Salmah was impressed with his arguments, so she agreed to let him go. Upon first arriving in Mecca, the people assumed the unknown child was Muttalib's servant and started calling him 'Abd al-Muttalib ("servant of Muttalib").: 85–86

Chieftain of Hashim clan
When Muṭṭalib died, Shaiba succeeded him as the chief of the Hāshim clan. Following his uncle Al-Muṭṭalib, he took over the duties of providing the pilgrims with food and water, and carried on the practices of his forefathers with his people. He attained such eminence as none of his forefathers enjoyed; his people loved him and his reputation was great among them.: 61 
'Umar ibn Al-Khaṭṭāb's grandfather Nufayl ibn Abdul Uzza arbitrated in a dispute between 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib and Ḥarb ibn Umayyah, Abu Sufyan's father, over the custodianship of the Kaaba. Nufayl gave his verdict in favour of 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib. Addressing Ḥarb ibn Umayyah, he said:
Why do you pick a quarrel with a person who is taller than you in stature; more imposing than you in appearance; more refined than you in intellect; whose progeny outnumbers yours and whose generosity outshines yours in lustre? Do not, however, construe this into any disparagement of your good qualities which I highly appreciate. You are as gentle as a lamb, you are renowned throughout Arabia for the stentorian tones of your voice, and you are an asset to your tribe.

Discovery of Zam Zam Well
'Abdul-Muṭṭalib said that while sleeping in the sacred enclosure, he had dreamed he was ordered to dig at the worship place of the Quraysh between the two deities Isāf and Nā'ila. There he would find the Zamzam Well, which the Jurhum tribe had filled in when they left Mecca. The Quraysh tried to stop him digging in that spot, but his son Al-Ḥārith stood guard until they gave up their protests. After three days of digging, 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib found traces of an ancient religious well and exclaimed, "Allahuakbar!" Some of the Quraysh disputed his claim to sole rights over water, then one of them suggested that they go to a female shaman who lived afar. It was said that she could summon jinns and that she could help them decide who was the owner of the well. So, 11 people from the 11 tribes went on the expedition. They had to cross the desert to meet the priestess but then they got lost. There was a lack of food and water and people started to lose hope of ever getting out. One of them suggested that they dig their own graves and if they died, the last person standing would bury the others. So all began digging their own graves and just as Abdul-Muṭṭalib started digging, water spewed out from the hole he dug and everyone became overjoyed. It was then and there decided that Abdul-Muttalib was the owner of the Zam Zam well. Thereafter he supplied pilgrims to the Kaaba with Zam Zam water, which soon eclipsed all the other wells in Mecca because it was considered sacred.: 86–89 : 62–65

The Year of the Elephant
According to Muslim tradition, the Ethiopian governor of Yemen, Abrahah al-Ashram, envied the Kaaba's reverence among the Arabs and, being a Christian, he built a cathedral on Sana'a and ordered pilgrimage be made there.: 21  The order was ignored and someone desecrated (some saying in the form of defecation: 696 note 35 ) the cathedral. Abrahah decided to avenge this act by demolishing the Kaaba and he advanced with an army towards Mecca.: 22–23 There were thirteen elephants in Abrahah's army: 99 : 26  and the year came to be known as 'Ām al-Fīl (the Year of the Elephant), beginning a trend for reckoning the years in Arabia which was used until 'Umar ibn Al-Khaṭṭāb replaced it with the Islamic Calendar in 638 CE (17 AH), with the first year of the Islamic Calendar being 622 CE.
When news of the advance of Abrahah's army came, the Arab tribes of Quraysh, Kinānah, Khuzā'ah and Hudhayl united in defence of the Kaaba. A man from the Ḥimyar tribe was sent by Abrahah to advise them that he only wished to demolish the Kaaba and if they resisted, they would be crushed. "Abdul-Muṭṭalib told the Meccans to seek refuge in the nearest high hills while he, with some leading members of Quraysh, remained within the precincts of the Kaaba. Abrahah sent a dispatch inviting 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib to meet him and discuss matters. When 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib left the meeting he was heard saying, "The Owner of this House is its Defender, and I am sure He will save it from the attack of the adversaries and will not dishonour the servants of His House.": 24–26 It is recorded that when Abrahah's forces neared the Kaaba, Allah commanded small birds (abābīl) to destroy Abrahah's army, raining down pebbles on it from their beaks. Abrahah was seriously wounded and retreated towards Yemen but died on the way.: 26–27  This event is referred to in the following Qur'anic chapter:

Have you not seen how your Lord dealt with the owners of the Elephant?
Did He not make their treacherous plan go astray?

And He sent against them birds in flocks, striking them with stones of baked clay, so He rendered them like straw eaten up.
Most Islamic sources place the event around the year that Muhammad was born, 570 CE, though other scholars place it one or two decades earlier. A tradition attributed to Ibn Shihab al-Zuhri in the musannaf of ʽAbd al-Razzaq al-Sanʽani places it before the birth of Muhammad's father.

Sacrificing his son Abdullah
Al-Harith was 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib's only son at the time he dug the Zamzam Well.: 64  When the Quraysh tried to help him in the digging, he vowed that if he were to have ten sons to protect him, he would sacrifice one of them to Allah at the Kaaba. Later, after nine more sons had been born to him, he told them he must keep the vow. The divination arrows fell upon his favourite son Abdullah. The Quraysh protested 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib's intention to sacrifice his son and demanded that he sacrifice something else instead. 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib agreed to consult a "sorceress with a familiar spirit". She told him to cast lots between Abdullah and ten camels. If Abdullah were chosen, he had to add ten more camels, and keep on doing the same until his Lord accepted the camels in Abdullah's place. When the number of camels reached 100, the lot fell on the camels. 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib confirmed this by repeating the test three times. Then the camels were sacrificed, and Abdullah was spared.: 66–68

Family
Wives
Abd al-Muttalib had six known wives.

Sumra bint Jundab of the Hawazin tribe.
Lubnā bint Hājar of the Khuza'a tribe.
Fatima bint Amr of the Makhzum clan of the Quraysh tribe.
Halah bint Wuhayb of the Zuhrah clan of the Quraysh tribe.
Natīla bint Janab of the Namir tribe.
Mumanna'a bint Amr of the Khuza'a tribe.

Children
According to Ibn Hisham, ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib had ten sons and six daughters.: 707–708 note 97  However, Ibn Sa'd lists twelve sons.: 99–101 By Sumra bint Jundab:

Al-Ḥārith.: 708  He was the firstborn and he died before his father.: 99 
Quthum.: 100  He is not listed by Ibn Hisham.By Fatima bint Amr:

Al-Zubayr.: 707  He was a poet and a chief; his father made a will in his favour.: 99  He died before Islam, leaving two sons and daughters.: 101 : 34–35 
Abu Talib, born as Abd Manaf,: 99 : 707  father of the future Caliph Ali. He later became chief of the Hashim clan.
Abdullah, the father of Muhammad.: 99 : 707 
Umm Hakim al-Bayda,: 100 : 707  the maternal grandmother of the third Caliph Uthman.: 32 
Barra,: 100 : 707  the mother of Abu Salama.: 33 
Arwa.: 100 : 707 
Atika,: 100 : 707  a wife of Abu Umayya ibn al-Mughira.: 31 
Umayma,: 100 : 707  the mother of Zaynab bint Jahsh and Abd Allah ibn Jahsh.: 33 By Lubnā bint Hājar:

Abd al-'Uzzā, better known as Abū Lahab.: 100 : 708 By Halah bint Wuhayb:

Ḥamza,: 707  the first big leader of Islam. He killed many leaders of the kufar and was considered as the strongest man of the quraysh. He was martyred at Uhud.: 100 
Ṣafīyya.: 100 : 707 
Al-Muqawwim.: 707  He married Qilaba bint Amr ibn Ju'ana ibn Sa'd al-Sahmia, and had children named Abd Allah, Bakr, Hind, Arwa, and Umm Amr (Qutayla or Amra).
Hajl.: 707  He married Umm Murra bint Abi Qays ibn Abd Wud, and had two sons, named Abd Allah, Ubayd Allah, and three daughters named Murra, Rabi'a, and Fakhita.By Natīlah bint Khubāb:

al-'Abbas,: 100 : 707  ancestor of the Abbasid caliphs.
Ḍirār,: 707  who died before Islam.: 100 
Jahl, died before Islam
Imran, died before IslamBy Mumanna'a bint 'Amr:

Mus'ab, who, according to Ibn Saad, was the one known as al-Ghaydāq.: 100  He is not listed by Ibn Hisham.
Al-Ghaydaq, died before Islam.
Abd al-Ka'ba, died before Islam.: 100 
Al-Mughira,: 100  who had the byname al-Ghaydaq.

The family tree and some of his important descendants
Death
Abdul Muttalib's son 'Abdullāh died four months before Muḥammad's birth, after which Abdul Muttalib took care of his daughter-in-law Āminah. One day Muhammad's mother, Amina, wanted to go to Yathrib, where her husband, Abdullah, died. So, Muhammad, Amina, Abd al-Muttalib and their caretaker, Umm Ayman started their journey to Medina, which is around 500 kilometres away from Makkah. They stayed there for three weeks, then, started their journey back to Mecca. But, when they reached halfway, at Al-Abwa', Amina became very sick and died six years after her husband's death. She was buried over there. From then, Muhammad became an orphan. Abd al-Muttalib became very sad for Muhammad because he loved him so much. Abd al-Muttalib took care of Muhammad. But when Muhammad was eight years old, the very old Abd al-Muttalib became very sick and died at age 81-82 in 578-579 CE.
Shaybah ibn Hāshim's grave can be found in the Jannat al-Mu'allā cemetery in Makkah, Saudi Arabia.

See also
Family tree of Muhammad
Family tree of Shaiba ibn Hashim
Sahaba