Passage 1:
Kyle Greig
Kyle Greig (born February 22, 1990) is an American soccer player who plays as a forward.

Career
Greig played four years of college soccer at Benedictine College between 2008 and 2011. He also played for USL PDL club Kansas City Brass between 2010 and 2012.Greig signed his first professional contract with USL Pro club Wilmington Hammerheads in April 2013. He made his debut and scored his first professional goal on April 19, 2013, during a 2-0 victory over Antigua Barracuda FC.
After two seasons with Oklahoma City Energy, Greig signed with Whitecaps FC 2 on January 29, 2016. He made the move to the Whitecaps senior team in Major League Soccer on December 19, 2016.During the 2017 season, Greig was loaned out to United Soccer League club FC Cincinnati. His loan ended when FC Cincinnati's 2017 season ended.Greig joined USL club Saint Louis FC on February 21, 2018. Saint Louis FC folded following the 2020 USL Championship season.On May 20, 2021, it was announced that Greig had signed with Louisville City. Following the 2021 season, Louisville opted to decline their contract option on Greig.Greig signed with the Tampa Bay Rowdies on January 14, 2022. He was released by Tampa following their 2022 season.
Passage 2:
Mitchey Greig
Mitchey Greig (born 4 October 1988) is a freestyle skier from New Zealand. In the 2010 Winter Olympics at Vancouver, she came 30th in the woman’s ski cross.

External links
Mitchey Greig at the NZOC website
Mitchey Greig at the SR Sports Reference website
Michelle Greig (sic) at the ISF website
Passage 3:
Mel Greig
Mel Greig (born 19 September 1982) is an Australian journalist, radio and television personality. In 2011, Greig competed on the first season of The Amazing Race Australia. In 2012, she began co-hosting the Hot30 Countdown show on 2Day FM. In December 2012, she and Mike Christian posed as the Queen and Prince Charles to make a prank call to the hospital where the Duchess of Cambridge was convalescing. It backfired, leading to a tragedy and the end of Greig's career on radio. In 2015, Greig was a contestant on the fourth season of The Celebrity Apprentice Australia. In January 2016, she returned to co-hosting on The Hot Breakfast, with Travis Winks. In 2018, Greig left Wave FM and moved back to Sydney. She writes an online dating column and has contributed articles to a website for women. Greig has endometriosis and is an ambassador for Endometriosis Australia.

Career
In 2011, she competed on the first season of The Amazing Race Australia with her sister Alana.In 2012, Greig began co-hosting the Hot30 Countdown show on 2Day FM with Matty Acton, who was later replaced by Mike Christian.

Royal prank
In December 2012, Greig and Christian broadcast a prank call they had made to King Edward VII Hospital, where Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge was convalescing, posing as the Queen and Prince Charles. It later transpired that one of the nurses who answered the call, Jacintha Saldanha, as a result of being duped by the DJs and the subsequent media attention, later died by suicide. Greig made a statement at the inquest, while 2Day FM has, to date, rejected any blame for Saldanha's death. The show was then cancelled on 12 December. In an interview with ITV's This Morning programme, Greig said that she was the victim of a "witch hunt".

Post radio show
In 2015, Greig was a contestant on the fourth season of The Celebrity Apprentice Australia. She was fired after Task 8. In January 2016, Greig began co-hosting the 96.5 Wave FM breakfast show, The Hot Breakfast, with Travis Winks, she had taken a three-year hiatus following the royal prank call incident. In 2018, Greig left Wave FM to move back to Sydney citing personal reasons.
Greig writes an online dating column for Yahoo Be and has contributed articles to Mamamia, an Australian women's website.Greig suffers from endometriosis and is an ambassador for the non-profit organisation Endometriosis Australia.
Passage 4:
Charlotte Greig
Charlotte Greig (10 August 1954 – 19 June 2014) was a British novelist, playwright, music journalist, singer and songwriter.

Early life
Charlotte Greig's father was in the navy and the family travelled the world. In 1962, she attended Charsfield village school, later described in Ronald Blythe's book Akenfield, where she learned to sing folk songs. At the age of 10 she was sent to a convent boarding school, St Stephen's College, Broadstairs, Kent, where she learned to play piano. She studied philosophy at Sussex University during the 1970s, a setting recounted in A Girl's Guide to Modern European Philosophy.

Career
Journalism
After university, Greig worked as a music journalist in print and radio. In 1990 she presented a six-part series on BBC Radio 1 called Will You Still Love Me Tomorrow on girl groups in popular music. It was based on her own book of the same title, published in 1989. In 1991 she wrote another Radio 1 documentary, British Black Music, and went on to present popular music features for BBC Radio 4's Woman's Hour and Kaleidoscope. By 1998 Greig was working for Mojo magazine, reviewing folk and country music.

Music
In the same year, she issued the first of her own albums, Night Visiting Songs. It consisted of four traditional songs, with the rest written by herself. This has set the tone for her subsequent albums: acoustic understated gothic folk music. Unusually, she plays harmonium and mountain dulcimer, with occasional electronic additions. Four further albums are collaborations with guitarist Julian Hayman. Her main influences are Lal Waterson and Nico. She appeared on the Topic anthology A Woman's Voice (many other anthologies exist with the same title). In 2007 she curated and contributed to Migrating Bird, a tribute album to the late Lal Waterson released on Honest Jon's record label.
In addition, Greig's 2008 song Crows was released on a compilation album entitled The Crow Club released on People Tree Records, an offshoot label of Acid Jazz Records.
In 2014, Greig released "Studies in Hysteria" by Doctor Freud's Cabaret, a collection of songs in the voices of Freud's early patients, featuring a number of guest vocalists including Euros Childs, Julie Murphy, Jon Langford, and Angharad van Rijswijk.

Writing
In 2007 her first novel, 'A Girl's Guide to Modern European Philosophy', was published in the UK by Serpent's Tail. It was also published in the US (Other Press), and in translation in Italy (Tropea), Sweden (Voltaire), and Turkey (Sel Yayincilik).
She has written two radio plays, 'The Confessions' (2009) and 'Against the Grain' (2010), both broadcast on BBC Radio 4. Her most recent play was a Radio 4 docu-drama to mark the fiftieth anniversary of the Profumo Scandal, entitled 'Well, He Would, Wouldn't He' (2013), and featuring Mandy Rice-Davies.
She has also written musical theatre pieces.  'I Sing of a Maiden', co-written with Rachel Trezise, was an exploration of folk song and young motherhood in the Welsh valleys (2008). The second, 'Dr Freud's Cabaret', with Anthony Reynolds, featured songs in the voices of Freud's early patients, including The Wolf Man, The Rat Man, Anna O, and Dora.
In 2013, her first crime novel, 'The House on the Cliff', under the name Charlotte Williams, was published by Macmillan. The second, Black Valley, was published in August 2014. These novels have been published in translation in the US (HarperCollins) Holland (Ambo Anthos) and Germany (Lyx Verlag).

Discography
Albums

Night Visiting Songs (1998)
Down in the Valley (2000)
At Llangennith (2001)
Winter Woods (2003)
Quite Silent (2005)
Dr Freud's Cabaret (2014)Anthologies

The Executioner's Last Songs (2003)
A Woman's Voice (2004)
 Migrating Bird  (2007)
John Barleycorn Reborn (2007)
James Yorkston:When the Haar Rolls in Covers Disc (2008)
Crow Club: Various Artists  (2009)
 Like the Sun Feeds From Flowers  (with Anthony Reynolds) (2010)

Bibliography
Fiction

A Girl's Guide to Modern European Philosophy (2007)
The House on the Cliff (2013)
Black Valley (2014)Non-fiction

Will You Still Love Me Tomorrow (1989)
Icons of Black Music (1999)Plays

 I Sing of a Maiden (with Rachel Trezise) (2008)
 The Confessions  (2009)
 Against the Grain  (2010)
 Dr Freud's Cabaret  (with Anthony Reynolds) (2010)
 Well, He Would, Wouldn't He  (with Mandy Rice Davies) (2013)
Passage 5:
Aleksey Greig
Aleksey Samuilovich Greig (Russian: Алексе́й Самуи́лович Грейг) (6 September 1775 – 18 January 1845), born into the noble Greig family, was an admiral of the Imperial Russian Navy. Born in Kronstadt, he was the son of Admiral Samuel Greig (1735–1788, then Governor of Kronstadt), brother-in-law of Mary Somerville, and father of General Samuil Greig (1827–1887), Russian Minister of Finance.
He studied at the Royal High School, Edinburgh under the Rector Alexander Adam from 1783 to 1785, and then served as a volunteer on board HMS Culloden, under Captain Thomas Troubridge.
Greig started his career in the British Royal Navy, serving in East India and Europe from 1785 to 1796. He returned to Russia to take part in the Mediterranean expeditions against France from 1798–1800. Under the command of Admiral Dmitry Senyavin, he distinguished himself in 1807 in the Battle of Athos and the Battle of the Dardanelles, which resulted in the Russian occupation of Lemnos and Tenedos. At the close of the Napoleonic Wars he was placed in command of the sea blockade of Danzig during the 1813 siege of Danzig.
Greig was not the only Russian officer of Scottish descent. While still a captain, he and another Scotsman, Captain Brown, were involved in some trouble due to the wreck of the Imperial frigate Archangel in 1797. In the following year, in the squadron off the Texel, he commanded the 64-gun Retvizan; and Captain Robert Crown, said to be a Scot, had the 74-gun Utislaw.In 1801 Greig was banished to Siberia for a time, in consequence of boldly remonstrating with the Emperor Paul for his severity to some British naval prisoners.In 1816 Greig became Commander of the Black Sea Fleet, a post which he kept for 17 years. At the same time, he served as Military Governor of Sevastopol and Nikolayev, introducing many reforms and improvements that the grateful citizens of Nikolayev would later erect a statue to his memory in 1873.
During the Russo-Turkish War of 1828–29, Greig's bold leadership made itself felt at the Sieges of Varna and Anapa. He was in full command of the Russian fleet, which he had brought from Sevastopol: forty vessels, eight being of the line, acting in conjunction with the troops under Prince Menshikov for three months by sea and land. During these operations the Emperor Nicholas I of Russia was his guest on board the Parizh,
which had the Diplomatic Chancery and 1,300 persons under her flag.In 1833 Greig was recalled to Saint Petersburg, where the Emperor Nicholas appointed him a member of the State Council of Imperial Russia and asked him to superintend the construction of the Pulkovo Observatory.
An atoll in French Polynesia Niau is named Greig after Aleksey Greig. It was named in his honor by the Russian Admiral Fabian Gottlieb von Bellingshausen in 1820.

Family
Aleksey Greig married Julia Stalinskaya, who was Jewish. This created social problems for them, when the family moved to St.Petersburg.
They had five children, and their sons all served in the navy, achieving prominence.
Greig's grandfather Charles was an emigrant from Scotland. His father Samuil was an admiral in the Russian Imperial Navy.

Notes
Passage 6:
Obata Toramori
Obata Toramori (小畠虎盛, 1491 – July 14, 1561) was Japanese samurai warrior of the Sengoku Period. He is known as one of the "Twenty-Four Generals of Takeda Shingen" 
He also recorded as having been wounded 41 times in 36 encounters. 
He was the father of Obata Masamori.

See also
Isao Obata
Passage 7:
Geordie Greig
George Carron Greig (born 16 December 1960), known as Geordie Greig, is an English journalist, the editor-in-chief of The Independent since January 2023, and the former editor of the Daily Mail.

Early life and career
Born 16 December 1960 in Lambeth, London, Greig is the son of Sir Carron Greig and Monica Stourton, granddaughter of the 24th Lord Mowbray, Segrave and Stourton. Members of his father's family have been royal courtiers for three generations — including his twin sister Laura, who was a lady-in-waiting to Diana, Princess of Wales. He attended Eton College and St Peter's College, Oxford.Greig began his career as a reporter for the South East London and Kentish Mercury newspaper, before joining the Daily Mail and then Sunday Today. He moved to The Sunday Times in 1987, becoming arts correspondent in 1989 and then its American correspondent based in New York in 1991. Greig returned to London in 1995 to become The Sunday Times literary editor and was then appointed editor of Tatler magazine in 1999.

Newspaper editor
He was appointed editor of the Evening Standard in February 2009. During his time as editor the Dispossessed Campaign was launched tackling poverty, illiteracy and unemployment. The campaign led to a Dispossessed Fund which has raised over £9 million for grassroots groups addressing poverty and has helped more than 100,000 people, including the homeless and unemployed.
In 2010 he was appointed editorial director of The Independent, The Independent on Sunday and i (Independent Print Ltd) and the Evening Standard.
In March 2012, Greig became editor of The Mail on Sunday while remaining a director of Independent Print Ltd and the Evening Standard.
He succeeded Paul Dacre as editor of the Daily Mail in September 2018. The Daily Mail's profits were reported as stable in 2019. In June 2020, The Guardian reported that the Daily Mail had surpassed The Sun as the UK's best-selling paper that May.His tenure as editor of the Daily Mail came to an end on 17 November 2021. He became consultant editor.On 4 January 2023, The Independent announced that he was rejoining the digital news outlet as editor-in-chief.

Other interests
Greig wrote the foreword for the Forward Book of Poetry (1999). His 2011 book, The Kingmaker is about his grandfather, Louis Greig, who became mentor, physician and friend to Prince Albert, the future King George VI.Greig has also written about the life of Lucian Freud in his book Breakfast with Lucian: A Portrait of the Artist published in 2013. }}

Personal life
On 25 November 1995 he married Kathryn Terry, who is originally from Texas; the couple have three children, a son and two daughters. Greig and his family live in Notting Hill, London.
Passage 8:
Cleomenes II
Cleomenes II (Greek: Κλεομένης; died 309 BC) was king of Sparta from 370 to 309 BC. He was the second son of Cleombrotus I, and grandfather of Areus I, who succeeded him. Although he reigned for more than 60 years, his life is completely unknown, apart from a victory at the Pythian Games in 336 BC. Several theories have been suggested by modern historians to explain such inactivity, but none has gained consensus.

Life and reign
Cleomenes was the second son of king Cleombrotus I (r. 380–371), who belonged to the Agiad dynasty, one of the two royal families of Sparta (the other being the Eurypontids). Cleombrotus died fighting Thebes at the famous Battle of Leuctra in 371. His eldest son Agesipolis II succeeded him, but he died soon after in 370. Cleomenes' reign was instead exceptionally long, lasting 60 years and 10 months according to Diodorus of Sicily, a historian of the 1st century BC. In a second statement, Diodorus nevertheless tells that Cleomenes II reigned 34 years, but he confused him with his namesake Cleomenes I (r. 524–490).

Despite the outstanding length of his reign, very little can be said about Cleomenes. He has been described by modern historians as a "nonentity". Perhaps that the apparent weakness of Cleomenes inspired the negative opinion of the hereditary kingship at Sparta expressed by Aristotle in his Politics (written between 336 and 322). However, Cleomenes may have focused on internal politics within Sparta, because military duties were apparently given to the Eurypontid Agesilaus II (r. 400–c.360), Archidamus III (r. 360–338), and Agis III (r. 338–331). As the Spartans notably kept their policies secret from foreign eyes, it would explain the silence of ancient sources on Cleomenes. Another explanation is that his duties were assumed by his elder son Acrotatus, described as a military leader by Diodorus, who mentions him in the aftermath of the Battle of Megalopolis in 331, and again in 315.Cleomenes' only known deed was his chariot race victory at the Pythian Games in Delphi in 336. In the following autumn, he gave the small sum of 510 drachmas for the reconstruction of the Temple of Apollo at Delphi, which had been destroyed by an earthquake in 373. Cleomenes might have made this gift as a pretext to go to Delphi and engage in informal diplomacy with other Greek states, possibly to discuss the consequences of the recent assassination of the Macedonian king Philip II.One short witticism of Cleomenes regarding cockfighting is preserved in the Moralia, written by the philosopher Plutarch in the early 2nd century AD:
Somebody promised to give to Cleomenes cocks that would die fighting, but he retorted, "No, don't, but give me those that kill fighting."
As Acrotatus died before Cleomenes, the latter's grandson Areus I succeeded him while still very young, so Cleomenes' second son Cleonymus acted as regent until Areus' majority. Some modern scholars also give Cleomenes a daughter named Archidamia, who played an important role during Pyrrhus' invasion of the Peloponnese, but the age difference makes it unlikely.
Passage 9:
Samuel Greig
Vice-Admiral Samuel Greig, or Samuil Karlovich Greig (Russian: Самуи́л Ка́рлович Грейг), as he was known in Russia (30 November 1735, Inverkeithing, Fife, Scotland – 26 October 1788, Tallinn, Estonia, Russian Empire) was a Scottish-born Russian admiral who distinguished himself in the Battle of Chesma (1770) and the Battle of Hogland (1788). His son Alexey Greig also made a spectacular career in the Imperial Russian Navy.

Early life
He was born on 30 November 1735 in the burgh of Inverkeithing in Fife. Initially he was a seaman who worked on his father's ships before entering the Royal Navy before 1758 as a Master's mate. He was present at naval engagements at the Capture of Gorée (1758), the Battle of Quiberon Bay (1759) and the Battle of Havana (1762).  He was promoted to acting lieutenant in 1761 but the Royal Navy took several years to confirm this rank.The court of Russia having requested the government of Great Britain to send out some British naval officers of skill to improve the marine of that country, Lieutenant Greig was selected as one. His superior abilities there  soon attracted the notice of the Russian government, and he was speedily promoted to the rank of captain.

Family
Samuel Greig married Sarah (1752–1793), daughter of Alexander Cook. Their union would give rise to children and grandchildren who later married into the Russian and German nobility.
He was father to Alexey Greig, admiral of the Imperial Russian Navy, who would go on to have his own spectacular career in the Russian Navy. Alexey Greig would become a privy counsellor and knight of all the Imperial Russian Orders.
Greig was father-in-law to Scottish science writer and polymath, Mary Somerville who was a distant cousin of his. Somerville had married Greig's fourth son, Captain Samuil Samuilovich Greig (1778–1807), who was the Russian Consul in London. They had two sons before Greig died in 1807, one of whom, Woronzow Greig (1805–1865) became a barrister and scientist.Another son, Ivan Samuilovich Greig (1776–1802), traveled to China but was never heard of again.
His grandson Samuil Alexeyvich Greig (1827–1887) was the Russian Minister of Finance 1877–80. A general-lieutenant, he took part in the defence of Sebastopol during the Crimea War. He is buried in Smolenskoe Lutheran Cemetery in St. Petersburg.

The Battle of Chesma
When some time after the war broke out between the Russians and the Turks, Captain Greig was sent in 1770 under the command of Count Alexey Orlov and Admiral Grigory Spiridov, with a fleet to the Mediterranean. The Turkish fleet of around 15 ships of the line plus frigates and galleys which they met near Chesma Bay, western Turkey, was much superior to the Russian force of 9 ships of the line and 3 frigates. After a severe and sanguinary but indecisive battle, the Turkish fleet retired during the night close into Chesma Bay, where they were protected by batteries on land. Notwithstanding the formidable position which the enemy had taken up, the Russian admiral determined to pursue, and if possible destroy these by means of his fire-ships.
At one o’clock in the morning Captain Greig bore down upon the enemy with his fire-ships, and succeeded in totally destroying the Turkish fleet. Captain Greig, on this occasion assisted by another British officer, a Lieutenant Drysdale, who acted under him, set the match to the fire ships with his own hands. This perilous duty performed, he and Drysdale leaped overboard and swam to their own boats, under a tremendous fire from the Turks, and at the imminent hazard besides of being destroyed by the explosion of their own fire-ships. Following up this success, the Russian fleet now attacked the town and batteries on shore, and by nine o’clock in the morning there was scarcely a vestige remaining of the town, fortifications, or fleet. For this important service, Captain Greig, who had been appointed commodore on his being placed in command of the fire-ships, was immediately promoted by Count Orlov to the rank of admiral, an appointment which was confirmed by an express from the Empress of Russia.
A peace was soon afterwards concluded between the two powers, but this circumstance did not lessen the importance of Admiral Greig's services to the government by which he was employed. He continued indefatigable in his exertions in improving the Russian fleet, remodeling its code of discipline, and by his example infusing a spirit into every department of its economy, which finally made it one of the most formidable marines in Europe. These important services were fully appreciated by the empress, who rewarded them by promoting Greig to the high rank of admiral of the Russian Empire, and governor of Kronstadt. In 1782 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society

The Battle of Hogland
Admiral Greig next distinguished himself against the Swedes, whose fleet he blocked up in port, whilst he himself rode triumphantly in the open seas of the Baltic. Several days after winning the Battle of Hogland, he was attacked by a violent fever, and having been carried to Reval, died on 26 October 1788, on board of his own ship, Rostislav, after a few days' illness, in the 53rd year of his life. As soon as the empress heard of his illness, she, in the utmost anxiety about a life so valuable to herself and her empire, instantly sent for her first physician, Dr Rogerson, and ordered him to proceed immediately to Revel and to do every thing in his power for the admiral's recovery. Dr Rogerson obeyed, but all his skill was unavailing.The ceremonial of the admiral's funeral in the Tallinn Cathedral was conducted with the utmost pomp and magnificence. For some days before it took place the body was exposed in state in the hall of the admiralty, and was afterwards conveyed to the grave on a splendid funeral bier drawn by six horses, covered with black cloth, and attended in public procession by an immense concourse of nobility, clergy, and naval and military officers of all ranks; the whole escorted by large bodies of troops, in different divisions; with tolling of bells and firing of cannon from the ramparts and fleet: every thing in short was calculated to express the sorrow of an empire for the loss of one of its most useful men. Catherine, the Empress of Russia, had her architect Giacomo Quarenghi design Greig's tomb.

Honours
In 1864, Greigia is a genus of the botanical family Bromeliaceae is named after him, by Eduard August von Regel (a director of the St Petersburg Botanical Garden).
Then in 1873, Regel named a species of Tulip after him, Tulipa greigii. Due to Greig once being president of the Russian Horticultural Society.

Family
His eldest son Samuel Greig married Mary Fairfax daughter of Sir William George Fairfax who later married Dr William Somerville and became famous in her own right as Mary Somerville.
Passage 10:
Keiller Greig
John Keiller Greig (12 June 1881 – 1971) was a British figure skater. He was a three-time British national champion and was placed at fourth at the 1908 Olympics.

Competitive highlights