Passage 1:
Bonnie Tyler
Gaynor Sullivan  (née Hopkins; born 8 June 1951), known professionally as Bonnie Tyler, is a Welsh singer who is known for her distinctive husky voice. Tyler came to prominence with the release of her 1977 album The World Starts Tonight and its singles "Lost in France" and "More Than a Lover". Her 1977 single "It's a Heartache" reached number four on the UK Singles Chart, and number three on the US Billboard Hot 100.
In the 1980s, Tyler ventured into rock music with songwriter and producer Jim Steinman. He wrote Tyler's biggest hit "Total Eclipse of the Heart", the lead single from her 1983 UK chart-topping album Faster Than the Speed of Night. Steinman also wrote Tyler's other major 1980s hit "Holding Out for a Hero". She had success in mainland Europe during the 1990s with Dieter Bohlen, who wrote and produced her hit "Bitterblue". In 2003, Tyler re-recorded "Total Eclipse of the Heart" with singer Kareen Antonn. Their bilingual duet, titled "Si demain... (Turn Around)", topped the French charts.
Rocks and Honey was released in 2013 and features the single "Believe in Me", which she performed representing the United Kingdom at the Eurovision Song Contest 2013 in Malmö, Sweden. After reuniting with the producer David Mackay, she released Between the Earth and the Stars (2019) and The Best Is Yet to Come (2021).
Her work has earned her three Grammy Award nominations and three Brit Award nominations (including twice for British Female Solo Artist), among other accolades. In 2022 she was awarded an MBE in the Queen's Birthday Honours for services to music.

Early life
Tyler was born Gaynor Hopkins in Skewen, Wales, to a coal miner father Glyndŵr and mother Elsie Hopkins. She grew up in a four-bedroom council house with three sisters and two brothers. Her siblings had varied music tastes, exposing her to artists such as Elvis Presley, Frank Sinatra and the Beatles. Hopkins and her family were deeply religious Protestants. Her first public performance took place in a chapel as a child, singing the Anglican hymn "All Things Bright and Beautiful".Leaving school with no formal qualifications, Hopkins began working in a grocery shop. In 1969, she entered a local talent contest, and after coming in second place, was inspired to pursue a career in singing. Responding to a newspaper advertisement, she found work as a backing singer for Bobby Wayne & the Dixies before forming her own soul band called Imagination. It was around this time that she changed her name to Sherene Davis, to avoid being confused with Welsh folk singer Mary Hopkin.

Career
1975–1978: The World Starts Tonight and Natural Force
In 1975, Davis was spotted singing with her band in the Townsman Club, Swansea, by talent scout Roger Bell, who invited her to London to record a demo track. After many months had passed, she received a phone call from RCA Records, offering her a recording contract. They also recommended that she change her name again. After compiling a list of surnames and first names from a newspaper, Davis found a new name in "Bonnie Tyler".Ronnie Scott and Steve Wolfe became her managers, songwriters and producers. "My! My! Honeycomb" was released as her debut single in April 1976, and failed to impact any charts worldwide. RCA increased their promotional efforts for the release of Tyler's second single, "Lost in France", arranging for her to meet with a party of journalists at a French château. The single had no immediate impact upon its release in September 1976, but became a Top 10 single by the end of the year. Tyler's next single "More Than a Lover" was favoured by some critics, and she performed the song on the BBC's Top of the Pops on 31 March 1977. The song peaked at number 27 in the UK.Despite producing two popular singles, Tyler's debut album, The World Starts Tonight, proved unsuccessful in Europe, except in Sweden, where it climbed to number 2."It's a Heartache" saw Tyler return to prominence again in 1978, reaching number 4 in the United Kingdom. The song also became her first hit in the United States, peaking at number 3 on the Billboard Hot 100.Her second studio album Natural Force, released in the same year, was certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) with sales of over half a million copies. "Here Am I" was released as a third single in the spring of 1978, but the song failed to sustain her success in the United Kingdom and the United States, though it charted in other European countries.

1979–1981: Diamond Cut and Goodbye to the Island
Tyler's third studio album, Diamond Cut, was released in 1979. Most of the songs were again written and produced by Ronnie Scott and Steve Wolfe.Diamond Cut was a hit in Norway and Sweden, but it only charted on the Billboard 200 at number 145. AllMusic declared the album to be the high point of Tyler's early career, "and a dynamite showcase for Tyler's inimitable voice". Record Mirror rated the album three stars out of five, stating that "only a minority of the material [was] holding her back", and that the album is "essential listening" for Country music fans."Two singles were released from Diamond Cut; those were "My Guns Are Loaded" and "Too Good to Last". Tyler also released "(The World Is Full of) Married Men", which was used as the theme song for the film of the same name. Tyler appears in the film singing the song during the title sequence. It peaked at number 35 on the UK Singles Chart in July 1979. Record Mirror criticised the song; its reviewer wrote: "Bonnie stops chewing gravel for a minute or two..." and continued with "she ends up sandpapering my eardrums again. Ouch."Tyler's first tour of Japan took place in 1979. During her visit, she represented the United Kingdom in the World Popular Song Festival held in Tokyo. Tyler won the competition with the song "Sitting on the Edge of the Ocean", written by Scott and Wolfe. "I Believe in Your Sweet Love" was also released in 1979, and listed as a single of the week in 1979 by Record Mirror upon its release.Both singles featured on Tyler's final studio album with RCA. Goodbye to the Island was released in 1981, recorded in the Algarve, Portugal. AllMusic rated the album three stars out of five, with other critics predicting that Tyler was "doomed to be a one-hit wonder". Phil Hendricks from Cherry Records said that Tyler "[proved] time and time again that she was one of those rare artists who was able to take the odd chart flop on the chin and bounce back having suffered little collateral damage."

1982–1989: The CBS Years
After her contract with RCA expired, Tyler signed with CBS/Columbia. A&R man Muff Winwood asked Tyler to scout a new producer. She considered Phil Collins, Jeff Lynne and Alan Tarney, but Jim Steinman was her first choice. "I'm a huge fan of his records, especially his solo album, and when my manager and I were discussing my comeback we both agreed that I had to sound the best or nobody would take me seriously." Steinman initially declined, but reconsidered after Tyler sent him demos of the rock material she was hoping to record.After their initial meeting, Tyler returned to Steinman's apartment in New York a few weeks later where he performed "Total Eclipse of the Heart" with Rory Dodd. Steinman described the song as "a Wagnerian-like onslaught of sound and emotion", and a "showpiece" for Tyler's voice. Her fifth album was recorded at the Power Station in New York, with members of the E Street Band, Rick Derringer on guitar, Rory Dodd and Eric Troyer on backing vocals, and Steinman as producer."Total Eclipse of the Heart" was released in the UK on 11 February 1983. It became one of the best-selling singles of all time with over six million units sold. Her fifth studio album, Faster Than the Speed of Night, debuted at no. 1 on the UK Albums Chart and no. 3 on the Cashbox and 4 on the Billboard 200, selling over one million copies in the United States. Tyler's commercial success led to several award nominations, including two Grammys, two AMAs and a BRIT Award. Tyler was named Best Recording Artist at the Variety Club of Great Britain Awards, and she received a Goldene Europa.Tyler also found success through some of her soundtrack recordings in the mid-80s. In 1984, she released "Holding Out for a Hero" from the Footloose soundtrack. In the following year, her recording of "Here She Comes" for Giorgio Moroder's restoration of the 1927 film Metropolis earned Tyler a Grammy nomination for Best Female Rock Vocal Performance. Tyler also declined an offer to record the theme for the James Bond spin-off Never Say Never Again.
In 1986, Tyler released her sixth studio album, Secret Dreams and Forbidden Fire. In another collaboration with Jim Steinman, the album also featured songs written by Desmond Child and Bryan Adams and a cover of "Band of Gold" by Freda Payne. "If You Were a Woman (And I Was a Man)" became the album's most successful single, selling over 250,000 units in France. The music video, directed by Steinman and Stuart Orme, received six nominations at the Billboard Video Music Conference.In 1987, Tyler collaborated with Mike Oldfield on the title track to his album Islands. In the following year, Tyler played Polly Garter in George Martin's album Under Milk Wood, a radio drama by Dylan Thomas. The music was composed by Elton John, and features vocal contributions from Tom Jones, Anthony Hopkins and Mary Hopkin.Tyler asked Desmond Child to produce her seventh album, Hide Your Heart, which came out on 9 May 1988. The album featured collaborations with Michael Bolton, Albert Hammond and Diane Warren. The album's singles, "Hide Your Heart", "Save Up All Your Tears" and "The Best" became major hits for other artists.

1990–2000: Success in continental Europe
In 1990, Tyler signed to Hansa/BMG Ariola and began working with various producers for her eighth studio album. She collaborated with Dieter Bohlen, Giorgio Moroder, Nik Kershaw and Roy Bittan. "We used so many producers in efforts to capture many different moods for many different territories, because we believed in the international crossover potential of Tyler," stated David Brunner, A&R manager for Hansa.Bitterblue was released on 11 November 1991. In a retrospective review, AllMusic's Tomas Mureika noted that the album marked a "much more mainstream and less bombastic" direction in Tyler's career. The title track was released a month ahead of the album and became a top 40 hit in several European countries. It was named ‘Catchy Song of the Year' at the RSH-Gold Awards. In the following year, "Bitterblue" was released as a promotional single in the United States where it was met with criticism. Billboard wrote that "bombastic production, with a rush of bagpipes and a choir of chirping children at the forefront, overpower Tyler's distinctive raspy voice."While Bitterblue was never released in the UK or US, the album was a commercial success in mainland Europe. It topped the charts in Austria and Norway, achieving 4× Platinum status in the latter country with eleven weeks at no. 1.Tyler's subsequent albums, Angel Heart (1992) and Silhouette in Red (1993), were also successful in mainland Europe. Both albums featured a greater share of songs written and produced by Dieter Bohlen. Tyler was named Best International Singer at the Goldene Europa Awards in 1993, and Best Pop/Rock Singer at the ECHO Awards in 1994.In 1995, Tyler moved to EastWest Records and released Free Spirit. The album featured collaborations with a variety of producers including Humberto Gatica, David Foster and Jim Steinman. The lead single, a cover of Air Supply's "Making Love (Out of Nothing At All)", reached no. 45 on the UK Singles Chart in January 1996. The album was re-released in March 1996 featuring a cover of "Limelight" by the Alan Parsons Project. The track was used as a theme for the German team at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, Georgia.Tyler's twelfth studio album, All in One Voice, was released in 1998. Much of the album was recorded with Jimmy Smyth in Dublin, and Harold Faltermeyer in Hamburg.In 1998, Tyler appeared on Rick Wakeman's orchestral album Return to the Centre of the Earth on the song "Is Anybody There?". The album also included narration from Star Trek actor Patrick Stewart and vocals from Ozzy Osbourne, Katrina Leskanich and Justin Hayward.

2001–2003: Greatest Hits and Heart Strings
On 14 September 2001, Tyler released Greatest Hits, a compilation album containing seventeen tracks. The album entered the UK Albums Chart at number 18, and was certified silver by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) for sales of over 60,000 units. Greatest Hits reached the Top 10 in a further five European countries.In 2002, Tyler began working on her thirteenth studio album, Heart Strings. EMI approached her with the idea of recording a cover album with an orchestra and Tyler's band. She selected thirteen songs by artists such as U2, The Beatles and Bruce Springsteen. The songs were arranged by composers Nick Ingman and Karl Jenkins, and performed by the City of Prague Philharmonic Orchestra.Heart Strings was released on 18 March 2003, and was followed by a tour in Germany. The album charted in Europe, reaching the Top 50 in five countries.

2004–2005: Success in France
In 2003, vocalist Kareen Antonn invited Tyler to re-record "Total Eclipse of the Heart" as a bilingual duet in French and English. The new version was re-titled "Si demain... (Turn Around)" and released in December 2003. It went to no. 1 in Belgium and France, where it held the top position for ten weeks, selling over 500,000 units. The success of the single was considered to be Tyler's comeback in France, and received overwhelmingly positive reviews from music critics.Tyler's fourteenth studio album Simply Believe was released in April 2004. It featured seven new songs and various re-recordings and covers. Tyler and Antonn recorded "Si tout s'arrête (It's a Heartache)" as a second bilingual duet. It peaked at number 12 in France. Tyler co-wrote the title track of the album, and two additional songs, with producer Jean Lahcene. Simply Believe spent 23 weeks on the French Album Charts and peaked at number 18.
Tyler released her fifteenth studio album Wings in the spring of 2005. It was recorded in Paris, and featured twelve new songs, two of which were also recorded in French, and new versions of "Total Eclipse of the Heart" and "It's a Heartache". Tyler promoted the album with an extensive tour of Europe, including a televised performance at the Sopot International Song Festival in Poland, and recorded concerts at La Cigale in Paris and at the Fiestas del Pilar in Zaragoza, Spain. Footage from all three concerts appeared on Tyler's live DVD Bonnie on Tour which was released in 2006. Wings was issued in the UK in 2006 under the title Celebrate. Tyler also received the Lifetime Achievement Steiger Award in 2005.

2006–2011: From the Heart: Greatest Hits and Best of 3 CD
In 2006, Tyler made her first appearance on US television in years when she performed "Total Eclipse of the Heart" with actress Lucy Lawless on Celebrity Duets. In the following year she recorded a new version of "Total Eclipse of the Heart" with punk band BabyPinkStar and released From the Heart: Greatest Hits, which reached number 2 in Ireland and number 31 in the UK.
In April 2009, Tyler joined Welsh male voice choir Only Men Aloud! on their UK tour to perform "Total Eclipse of the Heart". They recorded the song for their second studio album Band of Brothers, which was released in October. In the same year, she also recorded the title song for Mal Pope's new musical Cappuccino Girls, and performed the song at the opening night in Swansea's Grand Theatre. Tyler also made a cameo on Hollyoaks Later to sing "Holding Out for a Hero" in a dream sequence with Carmel McQueen (Gemma Merna).In 2010, Tyler appeared in a television advertisement for MasterCard singing a parody of "Total Eclipse of the Heart". She released "Something Going On" with Country singer Wayne Warner and a new version of "Making Love (Out of Nothing At All)" with Matt Pétrin in July and August respectively. In October, she toured with Robin Gibb in Australia and New Zealand.

In 2011, Tyler appeared on Swedish TV show Kvällen är din ("The Evening Is Yours" in English), singing "Total Eclipse of the Heart" with Swedish singer Niklas Paulström. Tyler also performed "It's a Heartache". She also made a guest appearance in the music video "Newport (Ymerodraeth State of Mind)", a parody of the Jay-Z and Alicia Keys song "Empire State of Mind" for the BBC's Comic Relief charity. Also in 2011, Tyler won an award at the BMI London Awards for "It's a Heartache" gaining over 3 million airplays on US television and radio since it was first recorded in 1977. She also appeared on the Ukrainian version of X Factor as one of the three British guests, alongside Kylie Minogue and Cher Lloyd. She performed "It's a Heartache", "Total Eclipse of the Heart" and "Holding Out for a Hero". In December 2011, a portrait of Tyler by Rolf Harris, owned by Cathy Sims, was valued at £50,000 on BBC's Antiques Roadshow.In September 2011, Tyler released a new compilation titled Best of 3 CD, which charted at number 36 in France. The album featured a cover of "Eternal Flame" by The Bangles, which was recorded as a duet with Laura Zen in French and English and released as a single.

2012–2018: Rocks and Honey and the Eurovision Song Contest
In early 2012, Tyler began working on her sixteenth album, Rocks and Honey. She travelled to Nashville, Tennessee in search of material for the album. It was recorded at the Blackbird Studios in Nashville, and produced by David Huff. Tyler sent the album to the BBC ahead of its release for feedback. After hearing the third track "Believe in Me", they asked Tyler to represent the United Kingdom with the song at the Eurovision Song Contest 2013. Although she was initially reluctant, Tyler accepted, describing Eurovision as "great publicity for my album".Tyler was announced as the United Kingdom's entrant on 7 March 2013, and was met with a mixed reaction. "Believe in Me" was released on 13 March, and peaked at number 93 in the United Kingdom. As a member of the "Big Five", the United Kingdom automatically qualified to the Eurovision Grand Final on 18 May. Tyler finished in 19th place with 23 points. Reacting to the results, Tyler stated, "I did the best that I could do with a great song", adding, "I'm so glad and so happy that I did it because it was an incredible experience. It was like the Grammy awards all over again."Following the Eurovision Song Contest, Tyler became the first representative for the United Kingdom to receive a Eurovision Song Contest Radio Award. She received the accolades for Best Song and Best Female Singer.Rocks and Honey was released on 6 May 2013 in the United Kingdom, and peaked at number 52 on the UK Albums Chart. The album was titled in reference to the contrast between Tyler and Vince Gill's voice on their duet "What You Need from Me", which was likened to "rocks and honey". "This Is Gonna Hurt" and "Love Is the Knife" were released as the second and third singles in August and September 2013 respectively, though both songs failed to chart.In 2014, Tyler released "Miserere" on Rhydian Roberts's album One Day like This, and "Fortune" on Spike's album 100% Pure Frankie Miller.In June 2015, Tyler appeared on Die schönsten Disney Songs aller Zeiten, a one-off televised celebration of popular Disney songs in Germany. She performed "Circle of Life" from The Lion King. In September 2015, Tyler performed "Total Eclipse of the Heart" and "Holding Out for a Hero" on Best Time Ever with Neil Patrick Harris, Nicole Scherzinger and Alec Baldwin.In 2016, Tyler featured on Frankie Miller's album Double Take. In March 2017, Tyler released a new single titled "Love's Holding On" with German metal band Axel Rudi Pell.In August 2017, Tyler performed "Total Eclipse of the Heart" aboard the MS Oasis of the Seas with American dance-rock band DNCE to mark the solar eclipse of 21 August 2017. The song received an increase of 31,000 online downloads, which led to a placement of number 13 on the Billboard Digital Songs chart. In November, she released a new compilation titled Remixes and Rarities. The album debuted numerous tracks from her back catalogue that had not previously been released on CD.In March 2018, Tyler embarked on a 22-date tour of Germany and Austria to celebrate the 40th anniversary of "It's a Heartache", with Sharron Levy as support.

2019–present: Recent albums
In February 2019, Tyler released "Hold On" as the lead single from her seventeenth studio album, Between the Earth and the Stars. The album followed in March 2019 and peaked at no. 34 on the UK Albums Chart. It was recorded with David Mackay, who produced Tyler's first two albums in the 1970s. Between the Earth and the Stars features three duets with Rod Stewart, Francis Rossi and Cliff Richard. Tyler embarked on a 23-date tour of Europe to support the album in April 2019, culminating with an appearance at BBC Proms in the Park in Hyde Park, London, and a headline concert at the London Palladium in September. Her show at L'Olympia in Paris was filmed and released through Canal+.In August 2019, Cherry Red Records released a box set compiling Tyler's first four studio albums. Classic Pop magazine described The RCA Years as "a thoroughly-researched 4CD-set". In November 2019, Tyler made a guest appearance at Ben Zucker's concert at the Mercedes-Benz Arena, Berlin to sing "It's a Heartache". Their duet features on his live album, Wer Sagt das?! Zugabe!, released in May 2020.In December 2019, Tyler released a new version of her 2005 song "Streets of Stone" for The World's Big Sleep Out, an international homeless charity event. On 14 December 2019, she performed at the Vatican's annual Concerto di Natale in the presence of Pope Francis.In May 2020, Tyler released "Through Thick and Thin (I'll Stand by You)" with Lorraine Crosby as a charity single in aid of the Teenage Cancer Trust. It reached no. 64 on the UK Downloads Chart. Her latest studio album, The Best Is Yet to Come, followed in February 2021.
On 2 September 2022, Tyler and Mike Batt released their duet "Into the Sunset" as a digital single. The track was originally released on the soundtrack to The Dreamstone in 1990. In October 2022, Tyler performed "Total Eclipse of the Heart" live with the cast of Tanz der Vampire in Stuttgart to mark the musical's 25th anniversary.In November 2022, Tyler embarked on her first ever tour of South America, with eight dates in Brazil, and one date in Uruguay. Speaking with El País, Tyler stated that she hopes to release another studio album in 2023.

Artistry
Influences
Born into a musical family, Tyler grew up listening to a wide range of musical genres. One of Tyler's earliest musical memories was listening to her mother singing opera music in the family home. Tyler attended church until she was sixteen years old. Her first ever performance was singing "All Things Bright and Beautiful" in church. She was also exposed to the music of Elvis Presley, Frank Sinatra, The Beatles and other 1960s bands due to her siblings' musical tastes. Frankie Miller was the first live act that Tyler saw, and she later recorded duets with him.Tyler's two biggest influences from a young age were Janis Joplin and Tina Turner. She cites "River Deep – Mountain High" as being her all-time favourite song. Other artists that influenced Tyler in her youth include Aretha Franklin, Wilson Pickett, Meat Loaf, Joe Cocker, Dusty Springfield and Tommy Steele. She has also expressed admiration for contemporary artists such as Guns N' Roses, Anastacia, Toni Braxton, Duffy, and Eminem. She has also expressed interest in collaborating with Adele, whom she describes as "a great song writer, singer and performer."

Vocal style
Tyler's music contains elements of country, rock, pop, blues and Celtic. Her voice has been likened to Rod Stewart and Kim Carnes as a result of her vocal cord nodule operation in the 1970s, sometimes even being referred to as "the female Rod Stewart", and, after her collaborations with Jim Steinman, "the female Meat Loaf". Soon after her operation, when recording her second album, Natural Force, the studio band complimented Tyler's changed voice. Reviewers from AllMusic have described Tyler's voice as "inimitable", "wonderfully gritty", and an "effective instrument" for drawing notice to her first managers, Ronnie Scott and Steve Wolfe.In a review of Rocks and Honey, OMH Media described Tyler's vocals as being "good for only one thing and that's belting out gravelly vocals," suggesting that she sounds like Johnny Cash in his later years when she "tries to restrain [her voice]." With reference to her modern voice, The Yorkshire Times wrote that Tyler's vocals have "still got what it takes to make you tingle." Jim Steinman told People magazine that he wrote "Total Eclipse of the Heart" as a "showpiece for [Tyler's] voice." AllMusic said that Tyler's voice "produced the perfect type of 'desperate lovelorn' effect to suit the romantic lyrics."

Songwriting
Though songwriting has never been a significant part of Tyler's career, she has co-written a handful of B-Sides and other tracks. "Gonna Get Better", a B-Side to the 1980 Japanese single "Sayonara Tokyo", was written with her brother, Paul Hopkins.In 2001, Tyler co-wrote four songs with Gary Pickford-Hopkins on his GPH album, and duetted with him on the track "Loving You Means Leaving You". Tyler was also involved in writing several tracks for her 2005 album Wings, including its singles "Louise" and "Celebrate".

Philanthropy
Tyler has featured in three charity supergroups. In 1986, she joined the Anti-Heroin Project to record "It's a Live-In World". The proceeds were donated to the Phoenix House Charities who funded heroin recovery centres in the UK.
In the following year, Tyler featured as a chorus vocalist in the British-American charity group Ferry Aid, who released a cover of "Let It Be" by the Beatles. Proceeds were donated to a charity supporting the victims of the Zeebrugge Disaster. The single sold over 500,000 copies in the UK where it topped the charts for three weeks. In 1990, Tyler joined Rock Against Repatriation to record a cover of "Sailing". It was a protest song in response to the repatriation of Vietnamese boat people who fled to Hong Kong. The single peaked at no. 89 on the UK Singles Chart.Since the 1990s, Tyler has been a patron of the Bobath Children's Therapy Centre in Cardiff, Wales, who provide care for children with cerebral palsy. In 2013, she campaigned for Bobath to be recognised at the Pride of Britain Awards. Tyler is also an ambassador for the Noah's Ark Children's Hospital for Wales. In January 2005, Tyler performed at the Rock for Asia benefit concert in Ingolstadt, Germany, raising funds for the victims of the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami. The event was recorded and released on DVD. In 2007, Tyler recorded "I Don't Know How to Love Him" for Over the Rainbow, a charity album conceptualised by Anneka Rice on the television show Challenge Anneka. The album reached no. 1 on the UK Compilation Chart, with proceeds going to the Association of Children's Hospices.On 1 November 2009, Tyler performed as the headline act at the Pinktober Women in Rock concert at the Royal Albert Hall in London. In the following year, she co-headlined at a benefit concert alongside Leo Sayer raising funds for Variety, the Children's Charity, in New Zealand. In 2012, Tyler was named patron of the AAG animal charity association in Guia, Portugal. Tyler re-recorded "Holding Out for a Hero" for the 2013 Children in Need appeal. In 2014, she endorsed the BUAV's campaign to make it mandatory for animals in testing laboratories to be re-homed. In 2020, Tyler contributed to a cover of "Don't Answer Me" by the Alan Parsons Project to raise funds for Bergamo, an Italian city that was deeply impacted by the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Personal life
In July 1973, Tyler married Robert Sullivan. He is a property developer and 1972 Olympic judo competitor. They have no children; Tyler miscarried when she was aged 39. Tyler and her family are Protestant.Since 1988, Tyler and her husband have owned a five-bedroom home in Albufeira, Portugal in the Algarve. Tyler had recorded one of her albums there in the late 1970s, and the couple spend much of the year there. In 2005, Tyler was filmed in the Algarve for the Polish entertainment TV show Zacisze gwiazd, which explores the houses of actors and musicians.Tyler and Sullivan have invested in property. As of a 1999 interview, they owned farmland in Portugal and New Zealand, 22 houses in Berkshire and London, and 65 stables offering horse boarding services. In a 2013 interview, Tyler stated that the farm in New Zealand had been converted to a dairy farm twelve years after they purchased the land. In the same interview, she stated that she and Sullivan also own a quarry.

Discography
Studio albums
The World Starts Tonight (1977)
Natural Force (1978)
Diamond Cut (1979)
Goodbye to the Island (1981)
Faster Than the Speed of Night (1983)
Secret Dreams and Forbidden Fire (1986)
Hide Your Heart (1988) also known as Notes From America
Bitterblue (1991)
Angel Heart (1992)
Silhouette in Red (1993)
Free Spirit (1995)
All in One Voice (1998)
Heart Strings (2003) also known as Heart & Soul
Simply Believe (2004)
Wings (2005) also known as Celebrate
Rocks and Honey (2013)
Between the Earth and the Stars (2019)
The Best Is Yet to Come (2021)

Honours, awards and recognition
"Total Eclipse of the Heart" and "It's a Heartache" have estimated sales of over 6 million units each, and are among the best-selling singles of all time.Tyler's 1976 breakthrough with "Lost in France" led to her nomination for Best British Female Newcomer at the 1977 Brit Awards. In the 1980s, she received nominations for two more Brit Awards, and three Grammy Awards. In 2013, she was presented with the Gold Badge award by the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors (BASCA).In 1979, Tyler won the 10th World Popular Song Festival with "Sitting on the Edge of the Ocean", representing the United Kingdom. Tyler also became the first and only representative of the United Kingdom to receive a Eurovision Song Contest Radio award in 2013. She was also one of the first western artists to tour the Soviet Union.In addition to her music awards, Tyler has received local honours in Wales; including being named freeman of Neath Port Talbot in 2011, and an honorary degree and doctorate from Swansea University in 2013. She is also an Honorary Fellow of the Royal Welsh College of Music & Drama. In 2016, she was honoured by the Lord Mayor of Swansea for Services to Music.Tyler was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2022 Birthday Honours for services to music.

See also
List of artists who reached number one on the UK Singles Chart
List of artists who reached number one in the United States
Passage 2:
Sweet Love
Sweet Love may refer to:

"Sweet Love" (Anita Baker song), 1985
"Sweet Love" (Company of Strangers song), 1992
"Sweet Love" (Chris Brown song), 2012
"Sweet Love" (Commodores song), 1976
Passage 3:
Shine On (Shine All Your Sweet Love on Me)
"Shine On (Shine All Your Sweet Love on Me)" is a song written by Johnny MacRae and Bob Morrison, and recorded by American country music artist George Jones.  It was released in January 1983 as the first single from his album Shine On. The song peaked at number 3 on the Billboard Hot Country Singles chart. "Shine On" was Jones' sixth Top 10 solo hit in less than three years. The song also displayed some of the pop elements that producer Billy Sherrill would introduce into George's sound over the course of his next few albums.

Chart performance
Passage 4:
O Valencia!
"O Valencia!" is the fifth single by the indie rock band The Decemberists, and the first released from their fourth studio album, The Crane Wife.
The music was written by The Decemberists and the lyrics by Colin Meloy. It tells a story of two star-crossed lovers. The singer falls in love with a person who belongs to an opposing gang. At the end of the song, the singer's lover jumps in to defend the singer, who is confronting his lover's brother (the singer's "sworn enemy") and is killed by the bullet intended for the singer.

Track listing
The 7" single sold in the UK was mispressed, with "Culling of the Fold" as the B-side despite the artwork and record label listing "After the Bombs" as the B-side.

Music videos
For the "O Valencia!" music video, The Decemberists filmed themselves in front of a green screen and asked fans to complete it by digitally adding in background images or footage. Stephen Colbert of The Colbert Report, having recently asked fans to do the same with a video of him with a light saber in front of a green screen, brought up The Decemberists on his segment "Look Who's Riding on My Coattails Now" and accused the band of stealing the idea. The Decemberists' response was to challenge Stephen Colbert to a guitar solo showdown on December 20, 2006, on The Colbert Report.On January 19, 2007, The Decemberists premiered an alternate music video of "O Valencia!", directed by Aaron Stewart-Ahn, on MTV2. The video follows a character named Patrick, played by Meloy, as he and his love Francesca (Lisa Molinaro), daughter of "the Boss", plan an escape to an unknown location. At a cafe, a man in a suit, portrayed by the band member Chris Funk, tells him to hide in the "Valencia" hotel (the Super Value Inn on North Interstate Avenue in Portland, Oregon) while he gets them the necessary documentation to escape. Above the name of the hotel, there is a neon sign that reads "Office". The letters have all burnt out except for the "O", creating the title of the song. The video then introduces other characters - various assassination teams - who sit in different rooms of the hotel waiting for the chance to catch the two lovers. Most are portrayed by other members of the band (along with Meloy's wife, Carson Ellis). They kill off any potential witnesses to their plan. Patrick manages to take down one member from each team, before they gang up on him. The Boss arrives, along with the man from the cafe, who reveals that he snitched on Patrick and Francesca. They execute Francesca, while forcing Patrick to watch. After they leave, Patrick finds a note by Francesca, which reveals that she never fell in love with him, and only wanted protection. 2 months later, Patrick and the man, who has lost an eye from a previous assassination attempt, have a sit-down at the same cafe. The man reveals that he snitched on Patrick just to take over the town. Patrick reveals that he poisoned a drink the man was having, but before he could get away, the man stabs Patrick in the neck with a fork before dying, followed by Patrick.
The video is somewhat influenced by the distinct style and themes of director Wes Anderson, with bold fonts being used to introduce characters and groups on the bottom of the screen (much like in the film The Royal Tenenbaums). The band had previously (and more explicitly) drawn influence from Anderson's Rushmore in their video for "Sixteen Military Wives". The layout of the hotel is also similar to the one used in Bottle Rocket.
Kurt Nishimura was chosen as the winner by mtvU for his video that depicted a love affair between a woman and her television, with the TV containing the green-screened Decemberists video footage.
Passage 5:
I Believe in Your Sweet Love
"I Believe in Your Sweet Love" is a song recorded by Welsh singer Bonnie Tyler. It was released as a standalone single in November 1979, and Tyler later re-recorded it for her fourth studio album, Goodbye to the Island (1981). The song was written by Ronnie Scott and Steve Wolfe, who co-produced the track with Hugh Murphy.
The song was a hit in Canada, where it reached number 27 on the RPM Adult Contemporary chart. Record Mirror nominated it as a single of the week upon its release.

Background
Tyler's success was in decline (except in Scandinavian countries) after she failed to match the success of her 1978 single "It's a Heartache" with subsequent releases. Diamond Cut (1979) only reached number 145 in the United States, and its most successful singles "Too Good to Last" and "My Guns Are Loaded" only saw regional success in mainland Europe and Canada.
Tyler released two singles in late 1979: "Sitting on the Edge of the Ocean", which saw her win the World Popular Song Festival in Japan; and "I Believe in Your Sweet Love".
"I Believe in Your Sweet Love" was also released on Tyler's album Lost in France: The Early Years (2005).

Music video
The video was filmed in Beaulieu Palace House in Brockenhurst, United Kingdom.

Charts
External links
Lyrics to this song at Genius
Passage 6:
Billy Milano
Billy Milano (born June 3, 1964) is an American heavy metal and hardcore punk musician. He is the singer and occasionally guitarist and bassist of crossover thrash band M.O.D., and was the singer of its predecessor, Stormtroopers of Death. Prior to these bands, Milano played in early New York hardcore band the Psychos, which also launched the career of future Agnostic Front vocalist Roger Miret. Milano was also the singer of United Forces, which included his Stormtroopers of Death bandmate Dan Lilker. Milano managed a number of bands, including Agnostic Front, for whom he also co-produced the 1997 Epitaph Records release Something's Gotta Give and roadie for Anthrax.

Discography
Stormtroopers of Death albums
Stormtroopers of Death videos
Method of Destruction (M.O.D.)
Mastery
Passage 7:
I Believe in Everything (song)
"I Believe in Everything" is a song by John Entwistle. "I Believe in Everything" was released as a single in 1971. The B-side was "My Size". The song also appears on Entwistle's debut solo album, Smash Your Head Against the Wall. When Entwistle was asked about the song in comparison to the rest of the album, he said:

I've been saying a lot of stuff that I didn't really believe in. I sort of wrote it for the heads, really, the people thinking, "ah, so that's where Entwistle's brain's at, he really sort of believes in the devil and hell and all that sort of business." So I wrote a number that touches on reincarnation, then goes into the absurd, with Father Christmas and the whole bit and right at the end just to prevent the heads from thinking that I did believe in everything like I was saying, 'cause they always seem to believe that you actually believe in your own words. I believe in some of them but not all of them, so I just wrote the joke in to throw them off, and it's done it.
The song ends with a chorus of "Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer".

Personnel
John Entwistle – vocals, bass
Dave "Cyrano" Langston – guitar
Jerry Shirley – drums
Keith Moon – backing vocals
Passage 8:
Believe in Me (Bonnie Tyler song)
"Believe in Me" is a song by Welsh singer Bonnie Tyler from her sixteenth studio album Rocks and Honey (2013). American songwriter Desmond Child composed the song with British songwriters Lauren Christy and Christopher Braide. It was released as the album's lead single on 13 March 2013. The song was written to "uplift the world", and was completed by Child whilst having dinner with Tyler.
The song was recorded in the Blackbird Studios, Nashville, Tennessee. The lyrics depict Tyler telling a lover who does not believe in love or religion to just believe in her. "Believe in Me" was selected as the 2013 Eurovision Song Contest entry for the United Kingdom. To comply with the song duration rules, the album version was cut to three minutes and three seconds for radio play and for live performance. The photograph used for the cover art was taken by Tyler's nephew, Andrew Hopkins. Following the Eurovision Song Contest, the song peaked at No. 93 in the United Kingdom, but did not chart elsewhere.
"Believe in Me" received mixed reviews from music critics, and the song was largely blamed for Tyler's mediocre final score in the Eurovision Song Contest Grand Final. Despite the single's chart placing and result at Eurovision, both Tyler and the single won categories in the Eurovision Song Contest Radio Awards; the first time a UK representative has won in a category in the ESC Radio's history.

Background and release
Tyler had been working on her sixteenth studio album Rocks and Honey since 2008. She recorded the album in the Blackbird Studios, Nashville, Tennessee, and released the album on 8 March 2013 in Europe, one day after Tyler was announced as the United Kingdom's representative at the Eurovision Song Contest. The official release of "Believe in Me" followed a week later, released on 13 March by Celtic Swan Recordings in the United Kingdom and Ireland, and 15 March in Europe. At her appearance on The One Show Tyler explained that the song had already been written before the BBC suggested it as the Eurovision entry when she sent a demo of Rocks and Honey to them. The song has also been added to the SingStar store as a karaoke track. A remix single of the song by Blutonium Boy & Matty Menk was released on 13 May by Celtic Swan Recordings.The music video was published on the BBC's official YouTube channel on 6 March 2013. The video was shot in East Sussex in a beach hut and on a nearby beach. Alongside the music video film crew there was a second crew that filmed a 'making-of' video. The BBC published the film in late March.

Composition
Lauren Christy and Christopher Braide's involvement in composing "Believe in Me" is unknown, though when it was announced that the song would represent the United Kingdom in the Eurovision Song Contest 2013, Bonnie Tyler told The Telegraph that Child finished composing the song at dinner.

"When I got to Nashville, I was looking for songs around the publishers, and got in touch with Desmond and he said "come up for dinner tomorrow night and I'll give you some songs." He'd already recorded some of these demos, but I said "I really love these two songs." And he said "But "Believe in Me" isn't finished yet. I tell you what, come back up for dinner tomorrow night and I'll finish writing it then," which is what he did. I'll never forget that night, we got there and Bob Ezrin was there, the producer of The Wall for Pink Floyd. After dinner [Child] wrote the second verse."
Welsh singer Paul Child conducted an interview with Desmond Child in Nashville in April 2013 to discuss his work with Bonnie Tyler, both with "Believe in Me" and in the beginnings when he wrote her hit single "If You Were a Woman" in the 1980s. Paul Child drew similarities between the lyrical and rhythmic structure of "Believe in Me" and the Labelle song "Lady Marmalade", specifically with the lines "Voulez-vous coucher avec moi (ce soir)?" and "[...] and you laugh at the thought of putting your faith in stuff, like love". Desmond stated that they (Child, Christy and Braide) wanted to write a song that would "uplift the world, and we're so thrilled that Bonnie sang it and that it got chosen to represent the UK."

Reception
Critical response
Upon its initial release, the song received mixed reviews from music critics. UKMIX described the song as "quite blissful with a smooth vocal delivery and some pretty nice lyrics," but despite not being able to fault the song, the reviewer was unsure that the song was the right choice for the Eurovision Song Contest and predicted that Tyler would suffer the same criticism that Engelbert Humperdinck received the previous year. Robert Copsey from Digital Spy gave the song two stars out of five, stating that the song is a "polar opposite to the slew of Euro-club bangers entering this year's contest," but applauded Tyler for entering the Eurovision Song Contest with the contrasting song. The Guardian held a poll on their website asking the public if they expected Tyler to be successful at Eurovision. The results were fairly even with 46% predicting that Tyler would win and 54% voting that they didn't expect Tyler to win. Ann Gripper from the Daily Mirror described the song as "heartfelt," and went on to say that Tyler "can still sing." She criticised the songwriters' choice of "above" and "stuff" as the first rhyming lyrics, but noted the line "you never see the rainbow, you just curse the rain" as an improvement, and an opportunity to "have some fun with the staging on finals night in Malmo." Gripper concluded by saying that it "doesn't get into your head like (2012 Sweden winning song) "Euphoria"," and stated that unless the staging is "spectacular", the song won't be remembered by voting time.

Commercial performance
Commercially, the song reached minor success on record charts. On 19 May 2013, "Believe in Me" scored the highest Eurovision-related new entry on that week's Top 100 UK Singles Chart, despite finishing 19th in the contest. The song climbed up to No. 86 in the UK mid-week charts following its debut at No. 93, but dropped out of the Top 100 by the following week.

Accolades
Bonnie Tyler won Best Song (with 12.6% of the vote) and Best Female Singer (with 16.9% of the vote) at the Eurovision Song Contest Radio Awards, and became the first representative of the United Kingdom to receive an award from ESC Radio since its initiation in 2006.

Eurovision Song Contest 2013
Tyler was selected by the BBC to represent the United Kingdom in the Eurovision Song Contest 2013. The first rehearsal took place on 12 May, the second on 15 May and the performance in front of the jury on 17 May 2013. Tyler's final performance of "Believe in Me" took place on 18 May during the Grand Final, with Anthony Goldsbrough (guitar and backing vocals), Michael Gazzard (guitar and backing vocals), Hayley Sanderson (guitar and backing vocals), Kristen Cummings (keyboards and backing vocals) and Grant Mugent-Kershaw (drums). The song was staged with Tyler standing by a microphone stand with her backing group before walking down the catwalk onto a rising platform.The song finished in 19th place with points from Ireland (7), Malta (5), Spain (4), Romania (3), Switzerland (2), Sweden (1) and Slovenia (1), a total of 23 points.

Reaction to the Eurovision results
Several journalists and singers have made public their views on the song and the result. Irish entrant and three-time winner of Eurovision Johnny Logan complimented Tyler, but argued that the song wasn't strong enough. He continued, "If you're going to win Eurovision, to go through some of the incredible voting I've noticed over the last few years, you have to have something that's going to stand out above everything else. Otherwise you're just going to hope to pick up 10 or 11 votes." Similarly, Nathan Moore agreed that the song was not strong enough, but said "It was a great idea to get Bonnie involved, there's a lot of love for Bonnie out there." Mick Dalley (of Yahoo! News) agreed that "although Tyler herself was on form, singing beautifully and rousing the crowd with her podiumed finale, "Believe in Me" was simply not good enough as a song".1997 UK winner Katrina Leskanich (of Katrina and the Waves) stated that she was underwhelmed by Denmark's entry, and expected Tyler to have scored higher than she did. British journalist Dave Goodman acknowledged that Tyler's entry was an improvement on the previous year, though argued that it was a combination of a poor position in the running order and the song that kept the UK from scoring higher.During promotion for Rocks and Honey in France, Bonnie Tyler spoke out against the Eurovision Song Contest's incidents. After being asked if she believes the contest is rigged, she replied, "I think so."
"The next day after the Eurovision, the Russians were complaining to Azerbaijan, "why didn't you give us the ten points we paid for?" Excuse me! "We paid for?" Is this a competition? ... I don't care about that. We [United Kingdom] haven't won for sixteen years, and I didn't expect to win. It's too bad that politics come in to it, it should be a songwriting competition, not who lives next door to you."
The Daily Mail claimed that Tyler overheard the conversation of Russians complaining to Azerbaijanis and spread the rumour; Tyler challenged this and said that she had seen it on Sky News.

Performances and promotion
Tyler first performed the song in Berlin, Germany where she featured as a guest on the Rock Meets Classic Tour in February to March 2013. Tyler was still involved with the tour when it was announced that she would be representing the United Kingdom in the Eurovision Song Contest in May, and after appearing on The One Show in London, she returned to Germany to begin promoting "Believe in Me". On 19 April, she stopped off at the Cologne Cathedral and the Madame Tussauds wax museum in Berlin for a photo shoot and unveiled wax figurines of the members of ABBA. On 28 April, the Leute Heute (German TV show) film team published a video from visiting Tyler's house a few weeks before to interview her on her participation in the Eurovision Song Contest. At mid-day, Tyler was interviewed and then performed an acoustic version of the song on BBC Radio 2's Weekend Wogan with her Eurovision group. Her final television appearance in the UK was on 3 May, when she performed "Believe in Me" on The Graham Norton Show.After arriving in Malmö on 10 May, Tyler was received positively by the press and by the other Eurovision entrants. Particular support came from Finland's entrant Krista Siegfrids and Malta's entrant Gianluca Bezzina. Before the voting concluded, the UK received 2 more points from Switzerland and the Lithuanian spokesperson spoke "I love you, Bonnie Tyler" despite the UK not scoring any Lithuanian votes.

Credits and personnel
Credits are adapted from the liner notes of the CD single.

Track listings and formats
Germany Maxi CD single"Believe in Me" (Radio edit) – 3:01
"Believe in Me" (Album version) – 3:57
"Stubborn" – 3:46UK Digital download"Believe in Me" (Eurovision edit) – 3:01

Charts
Release history
Passage 9:
I Believe in Love (Bonnie Guitar song)
"I Believe in Love" is a song written by Boudleaux Bryant and recorded by American country artist, Bonnie Guitar.
The song was recorded in January 1968 and officially released as a single in April. "I Believe in Love" peaked at number ten on the Billboard Hot Country Singles chart, becoming her third and final top ten on any Billboard list. The single also became Guitar's final major hit as a musical artist. Additionally, "I Believe in Love" reached a peak of number thirty on the Canadian RPM Country Songs chart in August 1968. It became her final chart appearance on the latter chart. The single was later issued on Guitar's album for Dot Records, also entitled I Believe in Love.

Chart performance
Passage 10:
Bernie Bonvoisin
Bernard Bonvoisin (French pronunciation: ​[bɛʁnaʁ bɔ̃vwazɛ̃]), known as Bernie Bonvoisin (French pronunciation: ​[bɛʁni bɔ̃vwazɛ̃], born 9 July 1956 in Nanterre, Hauts-de-Seine), is a French hard rock singer and film director. He is best known for having been the singer of Trust.
He was one of the best friends of Bon Scott the singer of AC/DC and together they recorded the song "Ride On" which was one of the last songs by Bon Scott.

External links
Bernie Bonvoisin at IMDb