Passage 1:
Henry Goes Arizona
Henry Goes Arizona is a 1939 American Western film starring Frank Morgan.

Plot
Henry "Hank" Conroy is as an actor, who inherits his dead brother's ranch. While adjusting to the country there, he is threatened by a gang who is after the ranch. The film was directed by Edwin L. Marin.

Cast
Passage 2:
Nigel D'Oyly
Nigel D'Oyly was an 11th- and 12th-century nobleman of England and, in 1120, the Lord of Oxford Castle, and briefly the Lord of Wallingford Castle.

Biography
He was son of Walter D'Oyly and younger brother of Robert D'Oyly, follower of William the Conqueror and founder of Oxford Castle.
At some point between 1086 and 1094, D'Oyly was granted possession of two mills on the west side of Grandpont by Abbot Columbanus of Oxford; however, by 1109 the mills were recorded as having been reconfirmed to the abbey.D'Oyly married Agnes, and left two sons, Robert D'Oyly the younger, the eldest son, who succeeded as Lord High Constable and Baron of Hocknorton and Fulk, buried at Eynesham in 1126. In 1120, King Henry I of England caused Edith Forne, his concubine, to marry Robert. As a marriage portion, he gave her the Manor of Cleydon, Buckinghamshire.
Passage 3:
Edwin L. Marin
Edwin L. Marin (February 21, 1899 – May 2, 1951) was an American film director who directed 58 films between 1932 and 1951, working with Randolph Scott, Anna May Wong, John Wayne, Peter Lorre, George Raft, Bela Lugosi, Judy Garland, Eddie Cantor, and Hoagy Carmichael, among many others.

Biography
Marin was born in Jersey City, New Jersey, and died in Los Angeles, California. He studied at the University of Pennsylvania and broke into the industry as an assistant director at Paramount-Famous Players Studio on Long Island. He came to Hollywood in 1926 and worked as an assistant director at First National. He started directing in 1932 for Universal.He was under contract to MGM from 1934 to 1941. In December 1940 he married Ann Morriss, an actress under contract to MGM. In November 1944 he signed a contract with RKO to make two films a year for two years starting with Johnny Angel with George Raft. It was a hit.
When he died he was under contract to Warner Bros. He died in Cedars Lebannon after a three week illness, aged 52 years old.He was married to actress Ann Morriss. They had three children: Denis Anthony, Reese Andrew and Randi Alexandra. He was survived by his wife and children, his father, two brothers and two sisters.

Selected filmography
Passage 4:
Tex and the Lord of the Deep
Tex and the Lord of the Deep  (Italian: Tex e il signore degli abissi) is a 1985 Western film co-written and directed by Duccio Tessari and starring Giuliano Gemma and William Berger. The film is an adaptation of the Tex comic series that were popular in Italy. Previously attempted to be made into a production in the late 1960s and early 1970s, the film was eventually made by Tessari who adapted the film from the comics originally to be a pilot for a television series.

Production
Tex Willer was created in 1948 in Italy and became one of the country's most popular and long-lived comic book characters. Attempts to adapt the Tex comic series to film appeared as early as the late 1960s. These included Sergio Bonelli working on an adaptation with Charlton Heston (as Tex) and Jack Palance (as Kit) being considered for the roles. Bonelli approached Tonino Valerii and Enzo G. Castellari to approach the character. Valerii recalled being approached by Gian Luigi Bonelli in the early 1970s. Valerii liked the idea but found that Bonelli wanted to make a film where he would personally handle the costumes and changed the original story which never got into production.In the early 1980s, Duccio Tessari took on the project that was initially conceived as a pilot for a television series produced by RAI, Italy's national public broadcasting company. Giuliano Gemma was cast as Tex who had worked with Tessari on several films in the past, including A Pistol for Ringo, My Son, the Hero, Kiss Kiss...Bang Bang and The Cats. Tessari and his screenwriters focused on three stories from the Tex comics with fantastic undertones. These included El Morisco, Sierra Encantada and Il signore dell'abisso which were written by Bonelli and drawn by Guglielmo Letteri.Filming took place between May and June 1985 in Italy and Spain.

Release and reception
Tex and the Lord of the Deep was released theatrically in Italy in 1985. Italian film historian and critic Roberto Curti wrote that the film was "ravaged" by critics and had disappointing box office returns.Giuliano Gemma spoke negatively about the film after its release, stating that the idea of making the film was good and that he was "delighted to accept it, but I think that, first of all, they made a mistake by choosing to adapt that story, Il signore dell'abisso, because there are such better ones in the series and [several] less difficult to turn into a film."The planned television series of the film was never made.

See also
List of films based on comics
List of Italian films of 1985
Passage 5:
John I, Lord of Polanen
John I, Lord of Polanen (c. 1285 – 26 September 1342) was Lord of Polanen, Lord of De Lek and Lord of Breda.

Life
John was a son of Philips III van Duivenvoorde (?-c. 1308) and Elisabeth van Vianen.

Lord of Polanen
Upon the death of his father, John I became Lord of Polanen Castle. In his early years, John got help from his uncle Diederik van der Wale.

Lord of Heemskerk
In 1327 John bought Oud Haerlem  Castle and the lordships (ambachtsheerlijkheden) of Heemskerk and Castricum. The price was only 100 pounds.In 1328 John took part in the Battle of Cassel, and in 1329 he was knighted. In 1339 he became bailiff of Kennemerland

Lord of Breda
In 1322 John married Catharina van Van Brederode (died 1372). He was the father of John II, Lord of Polanen.
Passage 6:
Sgouros Spata
Sgouros Spata (Albanian: Skurra Bua Shpata; fl. 1399–1403) was the Lord of Arta briefly in 1400, and the Lord of Angelokastron from 1401 until his death in 1403, during warfare in a civil war.

Life
Shortly before John Spata died on 29 October (1399, according to Nicol; 1400 according to others), he appointed his brother, Sgouros, ruler of Naupactus, as his successor as the despot of Arta. A few days after Sgouros took over Arta, however, the town was captured by the adventurer Vonko. While Sgouros fled to Angelokastron, a short time after, possibly as early as December 1399 (or by the end of 1401), Maurice Spata, his grandnephew, managed to evict Vonko from Arta and took over the governance of the city himself, while Sgouros thus took over governance of Angelokastron.In 1402/3, Maurice came to Sgouros' aid when the latter was besieged at Angelokastron by the forces of Carlo I Tocco. The attack, under Carlo's general Galasso Peccatore, was repulsed, but Sgouros died soon after, from wounds suffered in the war, leaving his possessions to his son Paul Spata.

Aftermath
Sgouros was succeeded by his son Paul, who became an Ottoman vassal and was aided with a contingent that was defeated by Tocco in 1406, after the latter had turned on the offensive, Angelokastron was ceded to the Turks and Paul retired to Naupaktos, however he sold it in 1407 to the Republic of Venice. Because of Paul's withdrawal, Maurice Spata and Tocco divided Aetolia and Acarnania between themselves. In 1408, Tocco holds Angelokastron.

Annotations
Passage 7:
Henry Brandeston
Henry Brandeston (or Henry of Braunstone) was a medieval Bishop of Salisbury.

Life
Brandeston held the offices of archdeacon of Wiltshire, archdeacon of Dorset, and Dean of Salisbury, all in the diocese of Salisbury.Brandeston was elected bishop on 2 January 1287 and consecrated on 1 June 1287. He was enthroned at Salisbury Cathedral on 19 October 1287.Brandeston died on 11 February 1288.

Citations
Passage 8:
Duccio Tessari
Duccio Tessari (11 October 1926 – 6 September 1994) was an Italian film director, screenwriter and actor, considered one of the fathers of Spaghetti Westerns.Born in Genoa, Tessari started in the fifties as documentarist and as screenwriter of peplum films. In 1964 he co-wrote Sergio Leone's A Fistful of Dollars, one year later he gained an impressive commercial success and launched the Giuliano Gemma's career with A Pistol for Ringo and its immediate sequel, The Return of Ringo.He later touched different genres and worked in RAI, directing some successful TV-series. He died of cancer in Rome, at 67. He was married to actress Lorella De Luca.

Filmography
Note: The films listed as N/A are not necessarily chronological.
Passage 9:
John II, Lord of Polanen
John III, Lord of Polanen (c. 1325 – 3 November 1378 in Breda) was Lord of Polanen, Lord of De Lek and Lord of Breda.

Life
He was a son of John I, Lord of Polanen and Catherine of Brederode. Polanen Castle near Monster was the ancestral seat of the family. In 1327 John I had acquired Oud Haerlem Castle. In 1339, John II purchased the Lordship of Breda and built Breda Castle, together with his father.
John succeeded his father in 1342 and also took over his father's position as councilor of the Count of Holland and Zeeland. In the autumn of 1343, he accompanied Count William IV on a pilgrimage to the Holy Land. He also participated in a crusade against the Prussians. He was not present in the September 1345 campaign against the Frisians, which saw William IV killed during the disastrous Battle of Warns. On 17 November 1345, John II granted Polanen Castle in arrear fief to his younger brother Philip I of Polanen.

First phase of the Hook and Cod Wars
William of Duivenvoorde and his nephew John II were leaders of what would become known as the 'Hook' party during the Hook and Cod wars. In 1350, they travelled to Hainaut to pay homage to Countess Margaret II. Somewhere between 1347 and 1350, John was appointed Burgrave of Geertruidenberg. In 1350, he purchased the Land of Breda for 43000 florins from John III, Duke of Brabant. He also acquired high justice over Breda.
The Hook and Cod wars started in earnest in about March 1351. Polanen Castle was besieged for 2 weeks and then demolished. Oud Haerlem Castle was taken after a siege which lasted more than 6 months, even though John van not present. The Siege of Geertuidenberg Castle lasted from October 1351 to August 1352. Here John's brother Philip commanded as his lieutenant. As a result of the war John lost the Lordship of De Lek.

During the regency of Albert of Bavaria
In 1358, Albert of Bavaria became regent of Holland for his brother. This was good for the members of the old Hook faction. In 1358 John was somewhat compensated for his losses with other fiefs and possessions.

In Brabant
Whatever the later events in Holland, John seems to have concentrated his efforts on extending his holdings in the Breda area. It made him more of a Brabant than a Holland lord.
John II was captured during the 1371 Battle of Baesweiler. He was released several months later, after his relatives had paid a ransom. In 1375, he was appointed stadtholder of the Great Holme.
John II died in 1378 and was buried in the Church of Our Lady in Breda.

Marriages and issue
John II of Polanen married three times.
In 1340, he married Oda of Horne-Altena (1318-1353), daughter of Willem IV of Horne. They had three children:

John III, his heir
Beatrice (c. 1344 – 1394); married Henry VIII, the son of Henry VII, Lord of Bautershem, who was also Lord of Bergen op Zoom as Henry I, and his wife, Maria Merxheim, Lady of Wuustwezel and Brecht
Oda (c. 1351 – 15th century), married Henry III, Burgrave of MontfoortIn 1353, he married Matilda (c. 1324 – 1366), an illegitimate daughter of John III, Duke of Brabant.  They had two sons:

Dirck of the Leck (d. 1416), married Gilisje of Cralingen.  He was outlawed for a while, because he was suspected of having participated in the murder of Aleid van Poelgeest
Henry of the Leck (d. 1427), married Jeanne of Ghistelles, and was a councillor of Countess Jacqueline of HollandIn 1370, he married Margaret, a daughter of Otto, Lord of Lippe and Irmgard of the Marck.  They had one son:

Otto (d. before 20 October 1428), married before 1396 to Sophia, a daughter of Count Frederick III of Bergh-'s-Heerenberg and Catherine of Buren
Passage 10:
Doug Adams (music journalist)
Doug Adams is a musician, author, lecturer, and educator. He is the author of The Music of the Lord of the Rings Films, a book about the music in The Lord of the Rings films.

Career
Adams previously worked for Film Score Monthly where, among other articles, he wrote extensive analyses of the themes used in John Williams' Star Wars film scores.
After graduate school in 2001, Adams was selected by Howard Shore to observe and document his work on The Lord of the Rings films. Adams spent just under ten years writing the book, The Music of the Lord of the Rings Films. He also wrote the booklets and liner notes packaged with the extended versions of The Lord of the Rings scores. Adams also works at Hickory Creek Middle School in Frankfort, Illinois as a band director.
Adams' association with Howard Shore continued in 2011, during which time he acted as an advisor to Shore's The Lord of the Rings in Concert series  and produced a recording of an orchestrion for the film Hugo.In late 2013, he was seen in two documentaries: The Songs of the Hobbit (which was included with the extended edition of The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey) and The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug, Production Video 14. In 2014, he appeared in The Music of the Hobbit, an hour-long documentary that was included on the extended edition of The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug. In the video, Adams discussed Howard Shore's music and demonstrated themes at the keyboard. He also authored the liner notes that accompanied the three albums of the Hobbit film scores.
It was announced on The Modern Musician podcast that Adams has written book titled Impossible Silence, which covers silent films and the history of film music.
Adams is listed as a participant in the Star Wars documentary The Prequels Strike Back: A Fan's Journey, in which he "sits down with his piano to highlight some of the masterful ways John Williams makes parallels between the original and prequel trilogy."On November 25, 2016, Howard Shore confirmed that Adams was working on a book that will cover the music of The Hobbit films. It was set to be released in 2017,  but it has not been published as of 2022.

Personal life
Adams and his wife live in Chicago. He is a percussionist.

Bibliography
The Music of The Lord of the Rings Films (2010).