Passage 1:
Douglas Tait (illustrator)
Douglas Tait is a Canadian children's book illustrator. He won the Amelia Frances Howard-Gibbon Illustrator's Award in 1981 for illustrating The Trouble with Princesses, written by Christie Harris.
Passage 2:
The Trouble with Girls (film)
The Trouble with Girls (and How to Get into It), also known as simply The Trouble with Girls, is a 1969 film directed by  Peter Tewksbury and starring Elvis Presley. It was one of Presley's final acting roles, along with the same year's Change of Habit. It is based on the 1960 novel Chautauqua by Day Keene and Dwight Vincent Babcock.

Plot
In a small Iowa town in 1927, a traveling Chautauqua company arrives, with internal squabbles dividing the troupe. The new manager, Walter Hale (Elvis Presley), is trying to prevent Charlene, the troupe's "Story Lady" (Marlyn Mason), from recruiting the performers to form a union.
Meanwhile, the town has a scandal following the murder of the local pharmacist Wilby (Dabney Coleman). Although a shady gambler is arrested, Walter realizes that the real killer is Nita (Sheree North), one of Wilby's employees.
Walter successfully gets Nita to confess during a Chautauqua performance, where she makes public the sexual harassment that Wilby directed at her. Nita's self-defense plea frees the wrongly jailed man, but Charlene is outraged that Walter used the crime to financially enrich the Chautauqua, and attempts to quit.
Walter attempts to reason with Charlene, but when she refuses to give in, he deceives her and uses the local police force to be sure that she must leave on the train with the rest of the troupe.

Cast
Elvis Presley as Walter Hale
Marlyn Mason as Charlene
Nicole Jaffe as Betty Smith
Sheree North as Nita Bix
Edward Andrews as Johnny
John Carradine as Mr. Drewcolt
Vincent Price as Mr. Morality
Dabney Coleman as Harrison Wilby
Duke Snider as The Cranker
Anissa Jones as Carol Bix
John Rubinstein as Princeton College kid
Frank Welker as Rutgers College kid
Joyce Van Patten as The Swimmer
Susan Olsen as Auditioning Singer
Pepe Brown as WillyCast notes

Anissa Jones, best known for playing Buffy on the television program Family Affair, made her only film appearance in The Trouble with Girls.
Nicole Jaffe and Frank Welker went on to become regular members of the voice cast for the Hanna-Barbera Saturday morning cartoon Scooby-Doo, which debuted on CBS ten days after the release of The Trouble with Girls.

Production and release
Development
In June 1959 it was announced that Don Mankiewicz would write a screenplay of an unpublished story by Mauri Grashin, Day Keene, and Dwight Babcock. By December 1960, with the project titled Chautauqua, MGM was ready to make the film with Glenn Ford. Rumours circulating in Hollywood at the time stated that Presley would co-star with Ford, Hope Lange, and Arthur O'Connell, but nothing came of it and the film was shelved.
In 1964, Dick Van Dyke had been signed up to star in a film titled Chautauqua based on a book called Morally We Roll Along by Gay MacLaren. After several years of failed screenplays and cast changes, MGM sold the rights to Columbia Pictures in May 1965. Columbia also struggled to get the project off the ground, and in April 1968 sold the rights back to MGM. This time MGM lined up Presley to star and production began in the fall of 1968. Chautauqua was the working title, but it was later changed to The Trouble with Girls when the producers worried that audiences would not understand the title or be able to pronounce it.

Filming
Elvis Presley was paid $850,000 plus 50% of the profits. Production ran from October 28 to December 18, 1968.Colonel Tom Parker, Presley's manager, originally wanted actress Jean Hale for the female lead, but Marlyn Mason was cast at the insistence of director Peter Tewksbury. Ironically, Jean Hale's husband, Dabney Coleman, would later be cast.
The Trouble with Girls was released as the bottom half of a double feature, sharing the screen with the Raquel Welch drama Flareup.

Reception
The Trouble with Girls (and How to Get into It) performed poorly in cinemas but strongly on the drive-in circuit.
Roger Greenspun of The New York Times called it "a charming though ineptly titled comedy" with Presley performing "a reasonably developed characterization as the chautauqua company manager, and he sings very well." Variety wrote, "Elvis Presley is lost in this one. Without star’s usual assortment of 10 to 12 songs, and numbers cut down to a bare three, picture has little to offer. Title suggests a gay comedy but it’s a mass of contrived melodramatics and uninteresting performances that do not jell into anything but program fare." Margaret Harford of the Los Angeles Times wrote that the film "never makes up its mind where to go and how to get there ... The trouble with the picture is not girls; it's indecision by the writers, Arnold and Lois Peyser about whether we should laugh at the corny entertainment of 40-odd years ago, or cry over the troubles of a lonely widow who drinks too much." The Monthly Film Bulletin wrote, "The plot's rather curious blend of amateur theatricals, folksy humour and straight melodrama strains credulity even for a Presley film, and the few songs are instantly forgettable. Vincent Price makes an odd and quite appealing guest appearance as an itinerant lecturer known as Mr. Morality, but Presley himself seems uninterested in the whole affair."

Soundtrack
Entering the studio for The Trouble with Girls, Presley found himself in the position of knowing he had the goods in the can with his looming comeback television special but given that his last three singles – "You'll Never Walk Alone," "Your Time Hasn't Come Yet Baby," "A Little Less Conversation" – and the Speedway album all tanked, faced a practically dead recording career. The soundtrack contained some minor songs, its only distinctive track by Billy Strange, the producer of the session, and Mac Davis.The recording session took place at United Artists Recorders in Hollywood, on October 23, 1968. "Clean Up Your Own Backyard" by Strange and Davis, their fourth successful submission to a Presley soundtrack in a row, was the only one released concurrently with the film's release, as the single RCA 47-9747 in 1969, peaking at #35 on the Billboard Hot 100. "Almost" would appear in 1970 on the budget album Let's Be Friends, the only other track from the film to be released during Presley's lifetime. His remake of the His Hand in Mine track "Swing Down Sweet Chariot" would not see release until 1983 on Elvis: A Legendary Performer Volume 4. The other songs would wait to be issued until RCA's soundtrack compilations of the 1990s combining released songs and outtakes from multiple films on one compact disc.
Tracks

"Clean Up Your Own Backyard" (Billy Strange and Mac Davis)
"Swing Down Sweet Chariot" (traditional, arranged by Elvis Presley)
"Signs of the Zodiac" (Buddy Kaye and Ben Weisman, Duet with Marlyn Mason)
"Almost" (Buddy Kaye and Ben Weisman)
"The Whiffenpoof Song" (Ted Galloway, Meade Minnigerode, George Pomeroy; not used in film)
"Violet (Flower of NYU)" (Steven Dueker and Peter Lohstroh) – The second adaptation in Presley's career of the American Civil War song "Aura Lee" from 1861, the first being the song "Love Me Tender".Notes

In some versions of the soundtrack, "Doodle Doo Doo" is included, performed by Linda Sue Risk, who plays Lily-Jeanne, the mayor's daughter. In the film, the song is performed by Anissa Jones, who plays Carol Bix.Personnel

Elvis Presley – vocals
The Blossoms, The Mellomen – backing vocals
Jack Halloran, Ronald Hicklin, Marilyn Mason – backing vocals
Roy Caton – trumpet
Lew McCreary – trombone
Buddy Collette – clarinet
Gerry McGee, Joseph Gibbons, Morton Marker – electric guitar
Don Randi – piano
Max Bennett – bass
John Guerin, Frank Carlson – drums

Home media
The Trouble With Girls was released to DVD by Warner Home Video on August 7, 2007, as a Region 1 widescreen DVD.

See also
List of American films of 1969
Passage 3:
The Trouble with Men and Women
The Trouble with Men and Women is a 2005 film written and directed by Tony Fisher and starring Joseph McFadden and Kate Ashfield.

Plot
Serious and intense Matt is tired of mooning over a woman who has deserted him for a life in the United States. After enduring the bar room philosophising of his friends as they vainly try to cheer him up, he starts dating various women, desperate for an understanding of the opposite sex. Yet he may well harbour the notion that it is his best mate's girlfriend that he is destined to be with.

Cast
Joseph McFadden – Matt
Kate Ashfield – Susie
Matthew Delamere – Vinnie

Music
Matt Cattell Innovation of Sound - Sam Gibb  –

External links
The Trouble with Men and Women at IMDb
Passage 4:
Michael Sorvino
Michael Ernest Sorvino (born November 21, 1977) is an American actor and producer. He is best known as the voice of Tommy Angelo, the protagonist in Mafia. His other acting roles include parts in Summer of Sam, The Trouble with Cali, and Once Upon a Time in Queens. He is the son of actor Paul Sorvino (1939–2022) and Lorraine Ruth Davis and the brother of actress Mira Sorvino.

Career
Sorvino was born in Tenafly, New Jersey to actor Paul Sorvino and graduated from Tenafly High School in 1996. He went on to graduate from Rutgers University's Mason Gross School of the Arts in New Brunswick, New Jersey with a Bachelor's Degree in Theater in May 2001. Sorvino first started acting in 1993 with a part in the film Amongst Friends. He had a recurring role in 2005 on the television series Human Trafficking. He also voiced the lead character Tommy Angelo in the game Mafia.Sorvino also produced the 2016 comedy-drama film Almost Paris, which was directed by Domenica Cameron-Scorsese.

Filmography
Film
Television
Video games
Passage 5:
The Trouble with Cali
The Trouble with Cali is an American drama film directed by Paul Sorvino and written by his daughter Amanda Sorvino. It stars Laurence Leboeuf, Glynnis O'Connor, Raviv Ullman and RZA.
The film will not be released in theaters as a distribution deal was not able to be successfully negotiated spurring contention with Lackawanna County, Pennsylvania, residents as $500,000 in tax payer funds was used to finance the film. Subsequently, the Scranton Cultural Center hosted a free premiere of the film on July 9, 2015, with additional showings on July 10, 2015 and July 11, 2015.

Plot
Cast
Laurence Leboeuf as Cali Bluejones
Paul Sorvino as Ivan Bluejones
Glynnis O'Connor as Avie Bluejones
Chris Meyer as Vail Bosenthall
Joanne Baron as Zelda Hirschorn
Frank Adonis as Uncle Vito
Annie Golden as Mrs. Katie Saperstein
Mira Sorvino as The Ballet Master
Raviv Ullman as Lois
Peyton List as Young Cali Bluejones
RZA as himself
Bill Sorvino as Jimmy Lamberchin
Michael Sorvino as Young Guido
Passage 6:
Paul Sorvino
Paul Anthony Sorvino (, Italian: [sorˈviːno]; April 13, 1939 – July 25, 2022) was an American actor. He often portrayed authority figures on both the criminal and the law enforcement sides of the law.
Sorvino was particularly known for his roles as Lucchese crime family caporegime Paulie Cicero (based on real life gangster Paul Vario) in Martin Scorsese's 1990 gangster film Goodfellas and as NYPD Sergeant Phil Cerreta on the second and third seasons of the TV series Law & Order. He also played a variety of father figures, including Juliet's father in Baz Luhrmann's 1996 film Romeo + Juliet, as well as guest appearances as the father of Bruce Willis' character on the TV series Moonlighting and the father of Jeff Garlin's character on The Goldbergs. He was in additional supporting roles in A Touch of Class (1973), Reds (1981), The Rocketeer (1991), Nixon (1995, as Henry Kissinger), and The Cooler (2003).
Usually cast in dramatic supporting roles, he occasionally acted in lead roles in films including Bloodbrothers (1978), and also in comedic roles including his turn as a bombastic Southern evangelist in Carl Reiner's Oh, God! (1977). Sorvino was nominated for a Tony Award for Best Actor for the 1972 play That Championship Season, and later starred in film and television adaptations. He was the father of actors Mira Sorvino and Michael Sorvino.

Early life
Sorvino was born on April 13, 1939, and raised in the Bensonhurst section of Brooklyn. His mother, Angela Maria Mattea (née Renzi; 1906–1991), was a homemaker and piano teacher of Italian (Molisan) descent who was born in Connecticut. His father, Ford Sorvino, was an Italian (Neapolitan) immigrant who worked in a robe factory as a foreman.Sorvino attended Lafayette High School (where he was a classmate of Peter Max, a painter and artist), graduated, and then went to the American Musical and Dramatic Academy.

Career
Sorvino began his career as a copywriter in an advertising agency. He took voice lessons for 18 years. While attending The American Musical and Dramatic Academy, he decided to go into the theatre. He made his Broadway debut in the 1964 musical Bajour, and six years later he appeared in his first film, Carl Reiner's Where's Poppa?, starring George Segal and Ruth Gordon. In 1971, he played a supporting role in Jerry Schatzberg's critically acclaimed The Panic in Needle Park, starring Al Pacino and Kitty Winn.
Sorvino received critical praise for his performance as Phil Romano in Jason Miller's 1972 Broadway play That Championship Season, a role he reprised in the 1982 film version. He acted in another George Segal-starring film with a prominent supporting role in the Academy Award-winning romantic comedy A Touch of Class (1973). In It Couldn't Happen to a Nicer Guy (1974), he played Harry Walters, a real estate salesman randomly picked up by a beautiful woman (JoAnna Cameron) and raped at gunpoint as a prank. He appeared in the 1976 Elliott Gould/Diane Keaton vehicle I Will, I Will... for Now. He starred in the weekly series We'll Get By (1975, as George Platt), Bert D'Angelo/Superstar (1976, in the title role), and The Oldest Rookie (1987, as Detective Ike Porter). He also directed Wheelbarrow Closers, a 1976 Broadway play by Louis La Russo II, which starred Danny Aiello.In 1981, Sorvino played the role of Italian-American communist Louis C. Fraina in Warren Beatty's film Reds. He appeared in Larry Cohen's 1985 horror film The Stuff as a reclusive militia leader, alongside future Law & Order co-star Michael Moriarty. Sorvino also helped found the American Stage Company, a group that launched several successful Off-Broadway shows, in 1986.In 1991, Sorvino took on the role of Sergeant Phil Cerreta (replacing actor George Dzundza in a new role) on the popular series Law & Order. Sorvino initially was excited about the role but left after 29 episodes, citing the exhausting schedule demanded by the filming of the show, a need to broaden his horizons, and the desire to preserve his vocal cords for singing opera. Sorvino's exit from the series came in an episode in which Sgt. Cerreta is shot in the line of duty and transferred to an administrative position in another precinct.(He was replaced by Jerry Orbach.In 1993, Sorvino substituted for Raymond Burr in a Perry Mason TV movie, The Case of the Wicked Wives. He had earlier appeared as Bruce Willis' father in the weekly series Moonlighting and the "Lamont" counterpart in the never-aired original pilot for Sanford and Son. Some of his most notable film roles were caporegime Paul Cicero in Martin Scorsese's Goodfellas (1990) and Henry Kissinger in Oliver Stone's Nixon (1995). In addition to Goodfellas, Sorvino also played mob bosses Eddie Valentine in The Rocketeer and Tony Morolto in The Firm.Sorvino founded the Paul Sorvino Asthma Foundation; he intended to build asthma centers for children and adults across the United States. In 1998, he narrated the series The Big House for The History Channel. In 1999, he directed and again starred in (albeit playing a different role) a TV version of That Championship Season.
In Hey Arnold!: The Movie, Sorvino voiced the main antagonist, Mr. Scheck, the CEO of Future Tech Industries, who wants to convert Arnold's neighborhood into a huge shopping mall. From 2000 to 2002, Sorvino had a lead role as Frank DeLucca in the television drama That's Life. He also starred in the comedy Still Standing as Al Miller, father to Bill (Mark Addy). Sorvino filmed The Trouble with Cali in the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre area of Pennsylvania. He directed and starred in the film, and his daughter Mira also acted in a lead role in the film.Sorvino played GeneCo founder Rotti Largo in the 2008 musical film Repo! The Genetic Opera. Working with Repo! director Darren Lynn Bousman again, Sorvino played God in The Devil's Carnival, a short film screened on tour beginning in April 2012.Sorvino's final motion picture The Ride will be released posthumously in 2022. Sorvino appeared alongside Dean Cain, D.B. Sweeney, and his wife Dee Dee Sorvino for his final performance. Sorvino's scenes were filmed in Jacksonville, Florida.

Personal life
Sorvino lived in Los Angeles and Madison, Indiana. He had three children: Mira, Michael, and Amanda from his first marriage with Lorraine Davis. Mira and Michael are actors.
On January 17, 2007, news reports detailed that he pulled a gun in front of Daniel Snee, an ex-boyfriend of his daughter Amanda, after the man pounded on her hotel room door and made threats. Amanda testified that Snee threatened to kill her at a hotel on January 3 in Stowe, Vermont. She said she locked herself in the bathroom and called both the police and her father. Her 67-year-old father showed up before police, she testified. When police arrived, the young man was arrested and charged with disorderly conduct, she said. As a deputy sheriff in Pennsylvania, Sorvino was legally authorized to carry a gun in different states. He did not point the gun at Snee or threaten him.In March 2008, Sorvino and his daughter Amanda lobbied with the Americans Against Horse Slaughter in Washington D.C., for U.S. Congress to pass the American Horse Slaughter Prevention Act (S311/HR503). The Sorvinos run a private horse rescue operation in Gilbert, Pennsylvania.Sorvino was also an accomplished sculptor, specializing in cast bronze. In December 2008 his sculpture of the late playwright Jason Miller was unveiled in Scranton, Pennsylvania. In addition, he guest-starred on the 2008 album of Neapolitan singer Eddy Napoli, Napulitanata, performing a duet of the song "Luna Rossa".In 2007, Sorvino launched Paul Sorvino Foods to market a range of pasta sauces. Based on his mother's recipe, the product appeared in supermarkets in the northeastern United States in late 2009. Three years later, Sorvino became part owner in Janson-Beckett Cosmeceuticals.In an April 2014 interview, Sorvino said, "Most people think I'm either a gangster or a cop or something, but the reality is I'm a sculptor, a painter, a best-selling author, many, many things—a poet, an opera singer, but none of them is gangster, but, you know, obviously I sort of have a knack for playing these things. It's almost my later goal in life to disabuse people of the notion that I'm a slow-moving, heavy-lidded thug, and most people's impression of me IS that—because of the success of Goodfellas and a few other things, but they forget that I was also Dr. Kissinger in Nixon, the deaf lawyer in Dummy, and they forget a lot of things that I've done. It would be nice to have my legacy more than that of just tough guy."Before screening his film Once Upon a Time in Queens at the Florida Film Festival in Orlando in April 2014, Sorvino revealed that he practiced New Formalism, by writing rhymed and metrical verse after the heyday of Modernist poetry, and recited one of his own poems as an example.In December 2014, Sorvino married political pundit Dee Dee Benkie after he met her while appearing as a guest on Your World With Neil Cavuto.In January 2018, Sorvino found out that Harvey Weinstein allegedly sexually harassed his daughter Mira, and blacklisted her within the film industry after she rejected the film mogul's sexual demands. In response, Sorvino told TMZ, "He's going to go to jail. Oh yeah. That son of a bitch. Good for him if he goes, because if not, he has to meet me. And I will kill the motherfucker. Real simple. If I had known it, he would not be walking. He'd be in a wheelchair. This pig will get his comeuppance. The law will get him. He's going to go to jail and die in jail."

Death
Sorvino died of natural causes at Mayo Clinic Florida in Jacksonville on July 25, 2022, aged 83. He was interred at Hollywood Forever Cemetery.

Filmography
Film
Television
Passage 7:
Peter Levin
Peter Levin is an American director of film, television and theatre.

Career
Since 1967, Levin has amassed a large number of credits directing episodic television and television films. Some of his television series credits include Love Is a Many Splendored Thing, James at 15, The Paper Chase, Family, Starsky & Hutch, Lou Grant, Fame, Cagney & Lacey, Law & Order and Judging Amy.Some of his television film credits include Rape and Marriage: The Rideout Case (1980), A Reason to Live (1985), Popeye Doyle (1986), A Killer Among Us (1990), Queen Sized (2008) and among other films. He directed "Heart in Hiding", written by his wife Audrey Davis Levin, for which she received an Emmy for Best Day Time Special in the 1970s.
Prior to becoming a director, Levin worked as an actor in several Broadway productions. He costarred with Susan Strasberg in "[The Diary of Ann Frank]" but had to leave the production when he was drafted into the Army. He trained at the Carnegie Mellon University. Eventually becoming a theatre director, he directed productions at the Long Wharf Theatre and the Pacific Resident Theatre Company. He also co-founded the off-off-Broadway Theatre [the Hardware Poets Playhouse] with his wife Audrey Davis Levin and was also an associate artist of The Interact Theatre Company.
Passage 8:
Ian Barry (director)
Ian Barry is an Australian director of film and TV.

Select credits
Waiting for Lucas (1973) (short)
Stone (1974) (editor only)
The Chain Reaction (1980)
Whose Baby? (1986) (mini-series)
Minnamurra (1989)
Bodysurfer (1989) (mini-series)
Ring of Scorpio (1990) (mini-series)
Crimebroker (1993)
Inferno (1998) (TV movie)
Miss Lettie and Me (2002) (TV movie)
Not Quite Hollywood: The Wild, Untold Story of Ozploitation! (2008) (documentary)
The Doctor Blake Mysteries (2013)
Passage 9:
The Trouble with You
The Trouble With You (French: En liberté !) is a 2018 French film directed by Pierre Salvadori. It was selected to screen in the Directors' Fortnight section at the 2018 Cannes Film Festival.

Cast
Adèle Haenel : Yvonne Santi
Pio Marmaï : Antoine Parent
Damien Bonnard : Louis
Vincent Elbaz : Jean Santi
Audrey Tautou : Agnès Parent
Hocine Choutri : Mariton
Octave Bossuet : Théo Santi
Steve Tran : A client

Plot
Yvonne tells her young son every night the adventures of his father Jean, a police officer who died two years before. She is a lieutenant herself, and she prefers being on the field to the desk job she has. During a routine interrogation, she learns that Jean was in fact a corrupt cop, and had got Antoine imprisoned, who had a clean history before, for a hold-up of a jewellery shop. Louis, a colleague who is in love with her, convinces Yvonne to not reveal anything and let Antoine finish his last weeks in jail.
Antoine gets released soon. Yvonne, who is regretful, follows him and observes that after years of imprisonment, he is now mentally disturbed. Antoine finds his wife Agnès, who has been waiting for him. He has strange and sometimes violent reactions - he commits petty theft and beats up several people who attack him at a pub. Yvonne lets him get away at each instance.
After a fight with his wife, he is wandering around on the road, when he decides to jump in the sea. Yvonne who has been following him, jumps to save him. They get back to the city in a stolen car. Yvonne is both stunned and attracted to him, comes home to her son, who is being babysat by Louis. She then flirts with him, to his great surprise.
The next day, Antoine is taken to the police station for having crashed the car. Yvonne, who doesn't want Antoine to know that she works with the police, sits on a bench with prostitutes, to make it look like she is one of them.
Antoine, thinking that Yvonne is a prostitute, invites her to dinner, but Louis takes Yvonne on a fake suspect chase. Disappointed, Antoine takes the restaurant personnel hostage and burns down the restaurant. Yvonne removes him from the scene and hides him in a disused underground sado-masochist club. Antoine escapes, leaves his wife and handcuffs Yvonne to a bedpost to go rob the jewellery shop that he was supposed to have robbed, thus making him truly guilty and giving a meaning to the imprisonment which destroyed his youth.
Yvonne escapes and meets Antoine in the jewellery shop. She helps him to take the jewels and convinces him to escape to join his wife, while Yvonne gets arrested.
Much later, Yvonne is released from prison and finds Louis, who has taken care of her son during this time.
Passage 10:
National Lampoon's Pucked
National Lampoon's Pucked (also known as Pucked, and National Lampoon's The Trouble with Frank) is a 2006 comedy movie starring Jon Bon Jovi in the main role. This is the last film directed by Arthur Hiller before his death in 2016.

Plot
Frank Hopper (Bon Jovi) is a former lawyer, who receives a credit card in the mail, and believes he's hit the jackpot. It's not long before he's working his way toward financing his dream – an all-woman hockey team. He's also put himself in debt to more than $300,000. He winds up in court when his plan backfires.

Cast
Jon Bon Jovi as Frank Hopper
Estella Warren as Jessica
David Faustino as Carl
Curtis Armstrong as Janitor
Nora Dunn as Leona
Cary Elwes as Norman
Pat Kilbane as Elvis
Dana Barron as Tiny
Danielle James as herself

See also
List of films about ice hockey