Passage 1:
John I, Count of Soissons
John I (died after 1115), son of William Busac, Count of Eu and Soissons, and Adelaide, Countess of Soissons.  Count of Soissons.
John became Count of Soissons after the death of his brother Renaud II in 1099.  John was involved with the Abbey of St. Jean des Vignes.
John married Aveline de Pierrefonds, daughter of Nivelon II, Seigneur de Pierrefonds.  John and Aveline had:

Renaud III, Count of SoissonsUpon the death of John, his son Renaud became the last of the Norman Counts of Soissons.
Passage 2:
Adelaide, Countess of Soissons
Adelaide (died 1105), was sovereign Countess of Soissons from 1057 until 1105.
She was the daughter of Renaud I, Count of Soissons, and his wife, whose name is unknown, widow of Hilduin III, Count of Montdidier. .
Adelaide became ruler of the County of Soissons upon the death of her father and brother, Guy II, Count of Soissons, in 1057.
Adelaide married William Busac, Count of Eu, grandson of Richard I, Duke of Normandy.  Adelaide and William had five children:

Renaud II, Count of Soissons
John I, Count of Soissons, married to Aveline de Pierrefonds
Manasses of Soissons, Bishop of Cambrai, Bishop of Soissons
Lithuise de Blois, married to Milo I of Montlhéry
Unnamed daughter, married to Yves le Vieux.William Busac became Count of Soissons, de jure uxoris, upon their marriage.

Notes
Sources
Dormay, C., Histoire de la ville de Soissons et de ses rois, ducs, comtes et gouverneurs, Soissons, 1664 (available on Google Books)
Passage 3:
Alberic III of Dammartin
Alberic III of Dammartin (Aubry de Dammartin) (c. 1138 – 19 September 1200) was a French count and son of Alberic II, Count of Dammartin, and Clémence de Bar, daughter of Reginald I, Count of Bar. 
He married Mathilde, heiress to the county of Clermont and daughter of Renaud II, Count of Clermont. They had:

Renaud I, Count of Dammartin (c. 1165–1227), married 1) Marie de Châtillon and 2) Ide de Lorraine with whom he had Matilda II, Countess of Boulogne, Queen of Portugal
Alix de Dammartin (1170–1237), married Jean, Châtelain de Trie
Simon of Dammartin (1180 – 21 September 1239), married Marie, Countess of Ponthieu father of Joan, Countess of Ponthieu, Queen of Castile and Leon.
Julia of Dammartin, married Hugh de Gournay
Agnes of Dammartin, married William de Fiennes

Notes
Passage 4:
Nocher II, Count of Soissons
Nocher II (died 1019), Count of Bar-sur-Aube, Count of Soissons. He was the son of Nocher I, Count of Bar-sur-Aube. Nocher's brother Beraud (d. 1052) was Bishop of Soissons.Nocher became Count of Soissons, jure uxoris, upon his marriage to Adelise, Countess of Soissons.  Nocher and Adelisa had three children:

Nocher III (d. 1040), Count of Bar-sur-Aube, had at least two daughters by unknown wife:
Adèle (d. 1053), Countess of Bar-sur-Aube
Isabeau
Guy, archbishop of Reims
Renaud I, Count of SoissonsNocher's son and namesake became Count of Bar-sur-Aube upon his death, and the countship of Soissons reverted to his wife.  His son Renaud would eventually become the Count of Soissons.
Passage 5:
Renaud II, Count of Soissons
Renaud II (died 1099), son of William Busac, Count of Eu and Soissons, and Adelaide, Countess of Soissons.  Count of Soissons.

It is unclear when Renaud assumed the countship of Soissons from his disgraced father.  The latter was stripped of the County of Eu in 1050 but it is unclear when he relinquished the countship of Soissons.  Alberic of Trois-Fontaines identifies Renaud in his Chronicles but little is known about his rule.
It is not known whether Renaud married or had any children. Upon the death of Renaud, his brother John became the Count of Soissons.

Notes
Sources
Dormay, C., Histoire de la ville de Soissons et de ses rois, ducs, comtes et gouverneurs, Soissons, 1664 (available on Google Books)
Passage 6:
John V, Count of Soissons
John V (21 March 1281 – 1304), son of John IV, Count of Soissons, and his wife Marguerite of Rumigny. Count of Soissons.
John inherited the countship of Soissons from his father in 1302.  Nothing is known about his brief rule of the county. He never married and died with no heirs.  Upon his death, his brother Hugh became Count of Soissons.

Sources
Dormay, C., Histoire de la ville de Soissons et de ses rois, ducs, comtes et gouverneurs, Soissons, 1664 (available on Google Books)
Passage 7:
Guy II, Count of Soissons
Guy II (d. 1057), son of Renaud I, Count of Soissons, and his wife (name unknown), widow of Hilduin III, Count of Montdidier. Guy was identified as Count of Soissons in 1042 in a charter in which Gaunilo of Marmoutiers, the treasurer of St. Martin, denoted property. Guy died with his father in 1057 at the siege of Soissons.
It is not known whether or not Guy was married and no children are recorded. Upon his death, his sister Adelaide assumed the countship of Soissons.

Sources
Dormay, C., Histoire de la ville de Soissons et de ses rois, ducs, comtes et gouverneurs, Soissons, 1664 (available on Google Books)
Passage 8:
William Busac
William Busac (1020–1076), son of William I, Count of Eu, and his wife Lesceline, was Count of Eu and Count of Soissons, de jure uxoris.  William was given the nickname Busac by the medieval chronicler Robert of Torigni.
William appealed to King Henry I of France, who gave him in marriage Adelaide, the heiress of the county of Soissons. Adelaide was daughter of Renaud I, Count of Soissons and Grand Master of the Hotel de France. William then became Count of Soissons in right of his wife. William and Adelaide had four children:

Renaud II, Count of Soissons (died 1099)
John I, Count of Soissons (died after 1115), married to Aveline de Pierrefonds
Manasses of Soissons, Bishop of Cambrai, Bishop of Soissons (died 1 Mar 1108)
Lithuise de Blois, married to Milo I of Montlhéry
Raintrude, married to Raoul I of Nesle, a member of the House of Nesle.His son Renaud became Count of Soissons upon William's death, and he was succeeded by his brother John.
Passage 9:
Margaret, Countess of Soissons
Margaret (or Margaretha) of Soissons (died ca. 1350) was ruling Countess of Soissons in 1305-1344. She was the only daughter of Hugh, Count of Soissons, and Johanna of Argies. In 1306 she succeeded her father as Countess of Soissons.
Margaret was married to John of Beaumont, son of John II, Count of Holland. Margaret and John had five children:

Johanna of Hainault (1323–1350), married first to Louis II, Count of Blois, (three sons), and second to William I, Marquis of Namur, no issue.
John, Canon of Cambrai.
William, Canon of Cambrai, Beauvais and Le Mans.
Amalrik, Canon of Cambrai, Dole and Tours.
Reinout, Canon of Cambrai.Upon their marriage, John became Count of Soissons, jure uxoris.

Sources
Dormay, C., Histoire de la ville de Soissons et de ses rois, ducs, comtes et gouverneurs, Soissons, 1664 (available on Google Books)
Passage 10:
John III, Count of Soissons
John III (died before 8 October 1286), son of John II, Count of Soissons, and Marie de Chimay.  Count of Soissons and Seigneur of Chimay.  John inherited the countship of Soissons upon his father’s death in 1272.
John married Marguerite de Montfort, daughter of Amaury, Count of Montfort, and his wife Beatrix de Viennois.  John and Marguerite had:

Marie de Nesle (d. after 1272), married to Guy de Saint-Rémy
John IV, Count of Soissons
Unnamed daughter, married Eustache IV de Conflans, Seigneur de Mareuil, son of Eustache III de Conflans
Raoul de Nesle (killed in the battle of Courtrai, 11 July 1302)
Auchier de Nesle.
Hugh de Nesle, d.1306