Passage 1:
End of the World (1977 film)
End of the World is a 1977 American science fiction film directed by John Hayes.

Plot
NASA Professor Andrew Boran is a research scientist who discovers strange radio signals in outer space that appear to originate from Earth. The signals seem to predict natural disasters that are occurring around the globe.
When he and his wife Sylvia decide to investigate the source of the signals, they end up being held captive in a convent that has been infiltrated by aliens. These invaders, from the planet Utopia, plan to destroy the world with the natural disasters. They have replicated the original inhabits of the convent and now pose as the Father and the nuns.
While posing as the human Father Pergado, the alien leader Zindar explains Earth is a hotbed of disease that cannot be permitted to continue polluting the galaxy.
Boran and Sylvia decide in the end not to stop the destruction of Earth and instead return to Utopia with Zindar. To make the return safely, Zindar holds Sylvia hostage and demands that Boran steal a Variance Crystal from the lab so that they can escape the destruction of Earth. Earth then explodes.

Cast
Christopher Lee as Father Pergado / Zindar
Sue Lyon as Sylvia Boran
Kirk Scott as Professor Andrew Boran
Dean Jagger as Ray Collins
Lew Ayres as Commander Joseph Beckerman
Macdonald Carey as John Davis
Liz Ross as Sister Patrizia
Jon van Ness as Mr. Sanchez

Reception
Creature Feature found it to be cheap and plodding, giving it 1.5 out of 5 stars. TV Guide gave the movie 1 of 5 stars. Moria found the movie dull and legendarily bad, only worth viewing to see the early work of Charles Band, and gave the movie 1/2 of a star. It further said Lee gave a very good performance, much better than the movie deserved.

Production
Produced by Charles Band. Moria states that in an in an interview from the 1970s Lee said he was lied to about the quality of the film to be produced to get him to agree to star in the movie.

Release
Released on DVD in 2005.
Passage 2:
The Seventh Company Outdoors
The Seventh Company Outdoors (French: La Septième Compagnie au clair de lune) is a 1977 French comedy film directed by Robert Lamoureux. It is a sequel to Now Where Did the 7th Company Get to?.

Cast
Jean Lefebvre - Pithivier
Pierre Mondy - Chaudard
Henri Guybet - Tassin
Patricia Karim - Suzanne Chaudard
Gérard Hérold - Le commandant Gilles
Gérard Jugnot - Gorgeton
Jean Carmet - M. Albert, le passeur
André Pousse - Lambert
Michel Berto
Passage 3:
David Wexler (director)
David Wexler is an American film director, screenwriter, and film producer. Wexler is a New York City native and a graduate of the University of Wisconsin-Madison, where he majored in communication arts.
Prior to his feature films (Evil Weed, The Stand Up, Anchors, Turtle Island, Last Supper, and Vigilante), Wexler created and produced the reality show College Life for MTV.Wexler has written and directed many commercials and corporate videos. He worked with Curtis Sliwa and the Guardian Angels to create a comic book and a handbook, as well as a clothing line available at Barking Irons.
Wexler founded the production company Cinema 59 Productions in 2006. Cinema 59 often works with Creative Diversions, a toy and game company to create 360 degree entertainment.
Wexler's film, Motorcycle Drive By, about Third Eye Blind, was an official selection of the 2020 Tribeca Film Festival. In 2021 his game Fish Club was nominated for the Toy Of The Year Award. Most recently, his film Disintegration Loops was an official selection of the 2021 SXSW Film Festival.

Filmography (as writer, director)
American Gothic (2007)
My First Kiss (2008)
Evil Weed (2009)
The Stand Up (2010)
Anchors (2012)
Turtle Island (2012)
Last Supper (2018)
Vigilante: The Incredible True Story of Curtis Sliwa and the Guardian Angels (2018)
Motorcycle Drive By (2020)
Disintegration Loops (2021)

Filmography (as actor)
Turtle Island (2012)
I'm Not Here (2017)

Television (as creator/producer)
College Life (2009)

Web Series (as creator/producer)
Movie Life (2009)
Passage 4:
American Gothic (2007 film)
David Wexler is an American film director, screenwriter, and film producer. Wexler is a New York City native and a graduate of the University of Wisconsin-Madison, where he majored in communication arts.
Prior to his feature films (Evil Weed, The Stand Up, Anchors, Turtle Island, Last Supper, and Vigilante), Wexler created and produced the reality show College Life for MTV.Wexler has written and directed many commercials and corporate videos. He worked with Curtis Sliwa and the Guardian Angels to create a comic book and a handbook, as well as a clothing line available at Barking Irons.
Wexler founded the production company Cinema 59 Productions in 2006. Cinema 59 often works with Creative Diversions, a toy and game company to create 360 degree entertainment.
Wexler's film, Motorcycle Drive By, about Third Eye Blind, was an official selection of the 2020 Tribeca Film Festival. In 2021 his game Fish Club was nominated for the Toy Of The Year Award. Most recently, his film Disintegration Loops was an official selection of the 2021 SXSW Film Festival.

Filmography (as writer, director)
American Gothic (2007)
My First Kiss (2008)
Evil Weed (2009)
The Stand Up (2010)
Anchors (2012)
Turtle Island (2012)
Last Supper (2018)
Vigilante: The Incredible True Story of Curtis Sliwa and the Guardian Angels (2018)
Motorcycle Drive By (2020)
Disintegration Loops (2021)

Filmography (as actor)
Turtle Island (2012)
I'm Not Here (2017)

Television (as creator/producer)
College Life (2009)

Web Series (as creator/producer)
Movie Life (2009)
Passage 5:
Now Where Did the 7th Company Get to?
Now Where Did the 7th Company Get To? (French: Mais où est donc passée la septième compagnie?) is a 1973 French-Italian comedy war film directed by Robert Lamoureux. The film portrays the adventures of a French Army squad lost somewhere on the front in May 1940 during the Battle of France.

Plot
During the Battle of France, while German forces are spreading across the country, the 7th Transmission Company suffers an air raid near the Machecoul woods, but survive and hide in the woods. Captain Dumont, the company commander, sends Louis Chaudard, Pithiviers and Tassin to scout the area. After burying the radio cable beneath a sandy road, the squad crosses the field, climbs a nearby hill, and takes position within a cemetery. One man cut down the wrong tree for camouflage, pulling up the radio cable and revealing it to the passing German infantry. The Germans cut the cable, surround the woods, and order a puzzled 7th Company to surrender. The squad tries to contact the company, but then witness their capture and run away.
Commanded by Staff Sergeant Chaudard, the unit stops in a wood for the night. Pithiviers is content to slow down and wait for the end of the campaign. The next day, he goes for a swim in the lake, in sight of possible German fighters. When Chaudard and Tassin wake up, they leave the camp without their weapons to look for Pithiviers. Tassin finds him and gives an angry warning, but Pithiviers convinces Tassin to join him in the lake. Chaudard orders them to get out, but distracted by a rabbit, falls into the lake. While Chaudard teaches his men how to swim, two German fighter planes appear, forcing them out of the water. After shooting down one of the German planes, a French pilot, Lieutenant Duvauchel, makes an emergency landing and escapes before his plane explodes. PFC Pithiviers, seeing the bad shape of one of his shoes, destroys what is left of his shoe sole. Tassin is sent on patrol to get food and a new pair of shoes for Pithiviers. Tassin arrives in a farm, but only finds a dog, so he returns and Chaudard goes to the farm after nightfall. The farmer returns with her daughter-in-law and Lt Duvauchel, and she welcomes Chaudard. Duvauchel, who is hiding behind the door, comes out upon hearing the news and decides to meet Chaudard's men.
When Chaudard and Duvauchel return to the camp, Tassin and Pithiviers are roasting a rabbit they caught. Duvauchel realizes that Chaudard has been lying and takes command.
The following day, the men leave the wood in early morning and capture a German armored tow truck after killing its two drivers. They originally planned to abandon the truck and the two dead Germans in the woods, but instead realized that the truck is the best way to disguise themselves and free the 7th Company. They put on the Germans' uniforms, recover another soldier of the 7th Company, who succeeded in escaping, and obtain resources from a collaborator who mistook them for Germans.
On their way, they encounter a National Gendarmerie patrol, who appear to be a 5th column. The patrol injures the newest member of their group, a young soldier, and then are killed by Tassin. In revenge, they destroy a German tank using the tow truck's cannon gun.
They planned to go to Paris but are misguided by their own colonel, but find the 7th Company with guards who are bringing them to Germany. Using their cover, they make the guards run in front of the truck, allowing the company to get away. When Captain Dumont joins his Chaudard, Tassin, and Pithiviers in the truck, who salute the German commander with a great smile.

Casting
Jean Lefebvre : PFC Pithiviers
Pierre Mondy : Staff Sergent Paul Chaudard
Aldo Maccione: PFC Tassin
Robert Lamoureux: Colonel Blanchet
Erik Colin: Lieutenant Duvauchel
Pierre Tornade: Captain Dumont
Alain Doutey: Carlier
Robert Dalban : The peasant
Jacques Marin: The collaborationist
Robert Rollis: A French soldier

Production
The film's success spawned two sequels:– 1975 : On a retrouvé la septième compagnie (The Seventh Company Has Been Found) by Robert Lamoureux;
– 1977 : La Septième Compagnie au clair de lune (The Seventh Company Outdoors)) by Robert Lamoureux.The story is set in Machecoul woods, but it was actually filmed near Cerny and La Ferté-Alais, as well as Jouars-Pontchartrain and Rochefort-en-Yvelines. The famous grocery scene was filmed in Bazoches-Sur-Guyonne.
Robert Lamoureux based this film on his own personal experiences in June 1940 during the war.
The final scene with the parachute is based on a true story. The 58 Free French paratroopers were parachuted into Brittany in groups of three, on the night of 7 June 1944 to neutralize the rail network of Normandy Landings in Brittany, two days before.

Box office
The movie received a great success in France reaching the third best selling movie in 1974.

Notes
External links
Mais où est donc passée la septième compagnie? at IMDb
Passage 6:
Olav Aaraas
Olav Aaraas (born 10 July 1950) is a Norwegian historian and museum director.
He was born in Fredrikstad. From 1982 to 1993 he was the director of Sogn Folk Museum, from 1993 to 2010 he was the director of Maihaugen and from 2001 he has been the director of the Norwegian Museum of Cultural History. In 2010 he was decorated with the Royal Norwegian Order of St. Olav.
Passage 7:
Jared Gold
Jared Gold (born 2 May 1972) is a fashion designer of avant-garde American Gothic fashion.

Biography
Gold grew up in Idaho Falls, Idaho and was a child piano prodigy long before he discovered fashion design. In 1990 he attended the Piano Conservatory of Hawaii for a year and soon after took up the harpsichord. Gold trained at Los Angeles' Otis Parson's School of Design. Gold is lead designer for his clothing company Black Chandelier. Gold has been creating fashion for men women and children since 1992, and shows his collections at events in Los Angeles as well as New York City. His collections are based in antiquated imagery, and use Victorian sewing details. Gold is the originator of the jewelled Giant Madagascar Hissing cockroach worn as jewelry known as the "Roach Brooch."

Life and career
Jared Gold's Czarina fashion show on March 14, 2008 was well reviewed in The Daily Titan, the student newspaper of Cal State Fullerton, which said Gold made the runway his "playground." In May 2006, he appeared as a guest judge on America's Next Top Model, in an episode that also featured his cockroach jewelry. In March 2009 Gold appeared as a special guest judge on Germany's Next Topmodel, hosted by Heidi Klum. Jared is known for his close friendship with writer Clint Catalyst. Metro Mix, a free nightlife guide in Los Angeles, said Catalyst is Gold's "muse." Catalyst has been hired as an event producer for some of Gold's fashion shows.  In November 2009, the duo released their first collaborative design effort: a set of prize ribbons with awards such as "Epic" and "Hedonist.">

Gold appeared on Germany's Next Top Model  hosted by Heidi Klum, along with Jessicka and Catalyst on March 5, 2009.
Passage 8:
Peter Levin
Peter Levin is an American director of film, television and theatre.

Career
Since 1967, Levin has amassed a large number of credits directing episodic television and television films. Some of his television series credits include Love Is a Many Splendored Thing, James at 15, The Paper Chase, Family, Starsky & Hutch, Lou Grant, Fame, Cagney & Lacey, Law & Order and Judging Amy.Some of his television film credits include Rape and Marriage: The Rideout Case (1980), A Reason to Live (1985), Popeye Doyle (1986), A Killer Among Us (1990), Queen Sized (2008) and among other films. He directed "Heart in Hiding", written by his wife Audrey Davis Levin, for which she received an Emmy for Best Day Time Special in the 1970s.
Prior to becoming a director, Levin worked as an actor in several Broadway productions. He costarred with Susan Strasberg in "[The Diary of Ann Frank]" but had to leave the production when he was drafted into the Army. He trained at the Carnegie Mellon University. Eventually becoming a theatre director, he directed productions at the Long Wharf Theatre and the Pacific Resident Theatre Company. He also co-founded the off-off-Broadway Theatre [the Hardware Poets Playhouse] with his wife Audrey Davis Levin and was also an associate artist of The Interact Theatre Company.
Passage 9:
Ian Barry (director)
Ian Barry is an Australian director of film and TV.

Select credits
Waiting for Lucas (1973) (short)
Stone (1974) (editor only)
The Chain Reaction (1980)
Whose Baby? (1986) (mini-series)
Minnamurra (1989)
Bodysurfer (1989) (mini-series)
Ring of Scorpio (1990) (mini-series)
Crimebroker (1993)
Inferno (1998) (TV movie)
Miss Lettie and Me (2002) (TV movie)
Not Quite Hollywood: The Wild, Untold Story of Ozploitation! (2008) (documentary)
The Doctor Blake Mysteries (2013)
Passage 10:
Dana Blankstein
Dana Blankstein-Cohen (born March 3, 1981) is the executive director of the Sam Spiegel Film and Television School. She was appointed by the board of directors  in November 2019.  Previously she was the CEO of the Israeli Academy of Film and Television. She is a film director, and an Israeli culture entrepreneur.

Biography
Dana Blankstein was born in Switzerland in 1981 to theatre director Dedi Baron and Professor Alexander Blankstein. She moved to Israel in 1983 and grew up in Tel Aviv.
Blankstein graduated from the Sam Spiegel Film and Television School, Jerusalem in 2008 with high honors. During her studies she worked as a personal assistant to directors Savi Gabizon on his film Nina's Tragedies and to Renen Schorr on his film The Loners.  She also directed and shot 'the making of' film on Gavison's film Lost and Found. Her debut film Camping competed at the Berlin International Film Festival, 2007.

Film and academic career
After her studies, Dana founded and directed the film and television department at the Kfar Saba municipality. The department encouraged and promoted productions filmed in the city of Kfar Saba, as well as the established cultural projects, and educational community activities.
Blankstein directed the mini-series "Tel Aviviot" (2012). From 2016-2019 was the director of the Israeli Academy of Film and Television.
In November 2019 Dana Blankstein Cohen was appointed the new director of the Sam Spiegel Film and Television School where she also oversees the Sam Spiegel International Film Lab. In 2022, she spearheaded the launch of the new Series Lab and the film preparatory program for Arabic speakers in east Jerusalem.

Filmography
Tel Aviviot (mini-series; director, 2012)
Growing Pains (graduation film, Sam Spiegel; director and screenwriter, 2008)
Camping (debut film, Sam Spiegel; director and screenwriter, 2006)