Passage 1:
La Belle Township, Lewis County, Missouri
La Belle Township is an inactive township in Lewis County, in the U.S. state of Missouri.La Belle Township was established in 1866, and named after the community of La Belle, Missouri.
Passage 2:
The Great Man (2014 film)
The Great Man (Le Grand Homme) is a 2014 French drama film co-written and directed by Sarah Leonor. It was screened in the Discovery section at the 2014 Toronto International Film Festival.

Cast
Jérémie Renier as Hamilton / Michaël Hernandez
Surho Sugaipov as Markov / Mourad Massaev
Ramzan Idiev as Khadji
Daniel Fassi as Gradé Afghanistan
Jean-Yves Ruf as Colonel Lacour
Sabine Massé as Sabina
Miglen Mirtchev as Johnson
Paul Massé as Magomed
Laura Arsangereeva as Madina
Issita Arslanov as Issita
Michaël Klein as Directeur d'école
Daphné Dumons as Camille
Manon Gineste as Maëva
Sava Lolov as Dr. Arnold
Guillaume Verdier as Sergent-chef Gao
Passage 3:
La Belle
La Belle is a French term meaning "the beautiful one" (feminine); it is sometimes used metaphorically to refer to the country of France.
La Belle may be a place in the US:

La Belle, Missouri
La Belle, New Mexico, a ghost town
La Belle, Texas, an unincorporated community
La Belle Township, Lewis County, Missouri, an inactive township
La Belle Township, Marshall County, South DakotaLa Belle may also be:

La belle jardinière, aka Madonna and Child with Saint John the Baptist, a painting
La Belle, a putative 18th century Huguenot outpost at the Falls of the Ohio
La Belle (discotheque), scene of a 1986 bombing in Berlin, Germany
La Belle Dame sans Merci, a ballad
La Belle, a 17th century sailing ship
La Belle Verte, a 1996 film
James D. La Belle, U.S. Marine Hero
La Belle, a 2000 Korean movie starring Oh Ji-ho

See also
Labelle (disambiguation)
Lac La Belle (disambiguation)
Passage 4:
La Belle Américaine
La belle américaine is a French comedy film from 1961, directed by Robert Dhéry, written by Alfred Adam and starring Alfred Adam and Louis de Funès. The film was known under the titles La bella americana (Italian), The American Beauty (English) and Der tolle Amerikaner (German).

Plot
The wife of a rich man learns that her husband has an affair with a younger woman. She takes revenge on him by selling his beloved big car for little money. The worker Marcel Perrignon is very happy about this bargain but when his boss sees the car, he envies him and Perrignon gets fired. This is the start of a number of mishaps for Perrignon.

Cast
Passage 5:
The Great Man (disambiguation)
The Great Man is 1956 American drama film directed by and starring José Ferrer, based on a novel by Al Morgan.
The Great Man may also refer to:

The Great Man (2014 film), a 2014 French drama film
The Great Man (novel), a 2007 Kate Christensen novel
William Pitt, 1st Earl of Chatham (1708–1778), English statesman known as "The Great Man"
The Great Man (play), a 2000 play by David Williamson
Great Man (film), a 1951 French drama film

See also
Great man theory, a 19th-century idea according to which history can be largely explained by the impact of great men
Passage 6:
The Great Man Votes
The Great Man Votes is a 1939 American drama film starring John Barrymore as a widowed professor turned drunkard who has the deciding vote in an election for mayor. It was based on the short story of the same name by Gordon Malherbe Hillman published in the November 1933 issue of American Magazine. The plot of the 2008 movie Swing Vote has been compared to The Great Man Votes.

Plot
Former Harvard professor Gregory Vance (John Barrymore), now an outcast alcoholic in a small city, is introduced hitching a ride with the local milkman, who also delivers alcohol to him, after his shift in his current job as a night watchman.  Despite his alcoholism, Vance cares for his children, Joan (Virginia Weidler) and Donald (Peter Holden), bringing them up on the classics, teaching them Latin, and having them recite Shakespeare. They in turn look after their father and his reputation.
After an altercation between his children and some bullies, led by the son of "Iron Hat" McCarthy (Donald McBride), the local political boss, Vance is visited by his children's teacher, Agnes Billow (Katherine Alexander), and the two become friendly with each other, especially as she realizes that Vance is a  writer she greatly respected and he reveals that his fall from respectability began with the death of the children's mother.
With a city election for mayor nearing, Iron Hat is informed that every vote in the city is already locked in place, with a likely tie between the boss's handpicked current mayor and a rival, with one exception in one crucial ward—Gregory Vance.  At the same time, Vance's wealthy in-laws are threatening to take custody of his children, something Joan and Donald do not want, despite the material advantages that would offer them.
Trying to woo Vance for his vote, Iron Hat offers him a low-level job with the city, but the children are able to raise the bargaining stakes until Vance is offered the post of Commissioner of Education.  Vance himself is reluctant to be a party to such dirty politics, but when he demands getting the job offer in writing, he is able to expose the corruption of the mayor and Iron Hat.  Now socially respectable and a new man, Vance is able to turn over a new leaf, presumably along with Miss Billow.

Cast
Reception
The film recorded a loss of $10,000.
Passage 7:
Labelle (disambiguation)
Labelle, LaBelle or La Belle is a family name of French and French-Canadian origins. It may refer to:

Places
Labelle, Quebec
Labelle, Nova Scotia
Labelle (electoral district), a federal riding in Quebec
Labelle (provincial electoral district), another, provincial riding also in Quebec
Labelle County, Quebec, a former county
Antoine-Labelle Regional County Municipality, Quebec
Papineau-Labelle Wildlife Reserve, Quebec.
LaBelle, Florida
LaBelle, Pennsylvania, Luzerne Township, Fayette County, Pennsylvania
LaBelle, Texas
La Belle Station, Northern Territory, Australia

People
Antoine Labelle
Chuck Labelle
Doug LaBelle II
James W. LaBelle
Jean-Baptiste Labelle
Jean-Baptiste Labelle (politician)
Marc LaBelle
Patti LaBelle

Other
Labelle, a former American R&B and soul group
Labelle (album), the group's 1972 eponymous debut

See also
Labille, a similarly spelled surname
Passage 8:
Robert Dhéry
Robert Dhéry (27 April 1921 – 3 December 2004) (born Robert Léon Henri Fourrey or Robert Foullcy) was a French comedian, actor, director and screenwriter.
He was married to actress Colette Brosset, with whom he appeared onstage in La Plume de Ma Tante.
He appeared on Broadway from 1958 to 1960 in La Plume de Ma Tante, and was, along with the rest of the entire cast (Pamela Austin, Colette Brosset, Roger Caccia, Yvonne Constant, Genevieve Coulombel, Michael Kent, Jean Lefevre, Jacques Legras, Michael Modo, Pierre Olaf, Nicole Parent, Ross Parker, Henri Pennec) awarded a Special Tony Award 1959 for contribution to the theatre.

Selected filmography
Night Shift (1944)
Last Chance Castle (1947)
Branquignol (1949)
I Like Only You (1949)
Bernard and the Lion (1951)
Love Is Not a Sin (1952)
La demoiselle et son revenant (1952)
The Pirates of the Bois de Boulogne (1954)
Passage 9:
The Great Man's Lady
The Great Man's Lady is a 1942 American Western film directed by William A. Wellman and starring Barbara Stanwyck and Joel McCrea. It is based on the short story "The Human Side" by Viña Delmar.It was filmed at two locations in Thousand Oaks, California: Joel McCrea Ranch and nearby Moorpark Road.

Plot
A statue is being dedicated to the late founder of Hoyt City, and reporters from around the country have gathered, speculating that "the old lady's going to talk." When the anticipated "old lady" does not appear at the event, they rush to her home. She is centenarian, Hannah Sempler Hoyt, who lives in an old mansion among the skyscrapers of Hoyt City. As she confronts the press who have barged in, a photographer says, "Hold it, Mrs. Hoyt!" She replies that her name is Hannah Sempler, and refuses to answer their questions as to whether she and Hoyt had been married, which as another reporter says, would make him a bigamist. The intruders leave, having learned nothing to prove or disprove the many rumors, but Hannah is persuaded to tell her story to a young female biographer who lags behind. She reminisces about her experiences with Ethan Hoyt in the American West.
In 1848, a teenaged Hannah Sempler is squired by her wealthy father's associate, Mr. Cadwallader, but she is not interested. Hannah meets and flirts with a young pioneer and dreamer, Ethan Hoyt, who comes to her home seeking financial backing from her father in order to build a city in the western wilderness. Her father rejects Ethan's proposal, stating that it is too risky. Hannah, however, falls in love with the young man, and quite impulsively, they elope and head west. The first years of their marriage are not easy, but the couple are happy. When Ethan loses all his money and possessions in a drunken gambling spree to Steely Edwards, Hannah wins back his losses and befriends Steely, who accompanies the couple to Sacramento, California, where they hope to strike it rich mining.
In Sacramento, Hannah and Ethan spend less time together, with Ethan working long hours in the mines. One day, Hannah discovers silver on Ethan's boots, carried from the Virginia City mine where he had been working. Hannah knows she is pregnant, but does not reveal this to Ethan, knowing he would never leave her behind in that condition. Instead she encourages Ethan to go to Virginia City and find his fortune in the silver mines. Thinking Hannah wants him gone so she can be with Steely, Ethan leaves her with no intention of returning.
After he leaves for Virginia City, the friendship between Hannah and Steely grows. Steely looks after Hannah and her twin babies. When Sacramento is threatened by torrential flooding, Hannah plans to travel to San Francisco. But knowing that Hannah still loves Ethan, Steely arranges for her to travel by coach to Virginia City to be with her husband—he will go to San Francisco alone. As the coach crosses a bridge near Sacramento, the river overflows and washes away the coach and its passengers. Hannah survives, but the babies perish.
After burying the twins, and believing that Hannah is also dead, Steely travels to Virginia City to tell Ethan the tragic news. It has been years since they've seen or spoken, and by now Ethan has become a wealthy man. When Steely tells him that Hannah is dead, Ethan shoots him, saying, "He killed my wife." Thinking that Hannah and Steely are now dead—Steely actually survives the shooting—Ethan continues his dream of building a great city.
Steely returns to Sacramento and discovers that Hannah is still alive. He tells her that Ethan, who believes she is dead, has married another woman. Steely and Hannah move to San Francisco and open a gambling casino. Years later, Hannah's father visits her and urges her to "disappear" so as not to threaten the political future of Ethan Hoyt, who is now representing her father's railroad interests. Hannah refuses her father's request, and travels to Hoyt City, where she watches Ethan giving a political speech. No longer a champion of the people as he once dreamed of becoming, Ethan is now a man of wealth and power, participating in corrupt practices to achieve private goals. Ethan sees Hannah in the crowd and they meet. She tells him that she had divorced him, knowing his political future would be ruined by scandal if it were known they were still married. She reminds him of the dreamer he once was. He goes off with a renewed idealism, devoting the rest of his life to helping the less fortunate, even at his own expense.
The story concludes as it started, with the aged Hannah and the young female biographer discussing Ethan Hoyt, standing beneath the impressive statue. Hannah has been alone for many years now. Steely died in the 1906 San Francisco fire, the same year that Ethan returned to Hoyt City, to die in Hannah's mansion. No one knew why he chose to do this, and for some thirty more years Hannah has remained silent about their marriage. The biographer now realizes the profound role that Hannah played in Ethan's life and success, and in the founding of this now great city. Also aware of Ethan's mythic reputation, she kisses Hannah sweetly, saying, "I'm kissing my biography [of Ethan] goodbye." Before Hanna leaves the statue, the old woman tears up the marriage certificate she has kept all these years, saying of his myth, and perhaps their relationship, "Forever, Ethan. Now no one can change it. Forever."

Cast
Barbara Stanwyck as Hannah Sempler
Joel McCrea as Ethan Hoyt
Brian Donlevy as Steely Edwards
K. T. Stevens as Girl biographer
Thurston Hall as Mr. Sempler
Lloyd Corrigan as Mr. Cadwallader
Etta McDaniel as Delilah
Frank M. Thomas as Mr. Frisbee
William B. Davidson as Senator Knobs
Lillian Yarbo as Mandy
Helen Lynd as Bettina Sempler
David Clyde as Bartender
Passage 10:
William A. Wellman
William Augustus Wellman  (February 29, 1896 – December 9, 1975) was an American film director, producer, screenwriter, actor and military pilot. He was known for his work in crime, adventure, and action genre films, often focusing on aviation themes, a particular passion. He also directed several well-regarded satirical comedies. His 1927 film, Wings, was the first film to win an Academy Award for Best Picture at the 1st Academy Awards ceremony.Beginning his film career as an actor, he went on to direct over 80 films, at times co-credited as producer and consultant, from the silent era through the Golden Age of Hollywood. He was nominated for four Academy Awards: three Best Director Oscars for the original A Star Is Born (1937), Battleground (1949), and The High and the Mighty (1954) and one in Best Original Story for A Star is Born, which he won. In 1973, he received the Directors Guild of America's Lifetime Achievement Award. He was previously a decorated combat pilot during World War I, serving in the Lafayette Flying Corps of the French Air Force, and earning a Croix de Guerre with two palms for valorous action.

Early life
Wellman was born in Brookline, Massachusetts. His father, Arthur Gouverneur Wellman, was a Boston Brahmin. William was a five times great-grandson of Puritan Thomas Wellman, who emigrated to the Massachusetts Bay Colony circa 1640.  He was also a great-great-great-grandson of Welsh-born Francis Lewis of New York, one of the signatories to the Declaration of Independence. Wellman's mother, Cecilia McCarthy, was an Irish immigrant.  
During his teenage years, Wellman often found himself in trouble with authorities. He was expelled from Newton High School in Newtonville, Massachusetts for dropping a stink bomb on the principal's head. He was also arrested and placed on probation for car theft. His mother, who actually worked as a probation officer, was asked to address Congress on the subject of juvenile delinquency. Later, young William worked as a salesman, as a general laborer in a lumber yard, and as a player on a minor-league hockey team.

World War I
In World War I, Wellman enlisted in the Norton-Harjes Ambulance Corps to serve as a driver in Europe. While in Paris, Wellman joined the French Foreign Legion and was assigned on December 3, 1917 as a fighter pilot, becoming the first American to join Escadrille N.87 in the Lafayette Flying Corps (not the sub-unit Lafayette Escadrille as usually stated), where he earned himself the nickname "Wild Bill", and was awarded the Croix de Guerre with two palms. N.87, les Chats Noir (Black Cat Group) was stationed at Lunéville in the Alsace-Lorraine sector and was equipped with Nieuport 17 and later Nieuport 24 "pursuit" aircraft. Wellman's combat experience culminated in three recorded "kills", along with five probables, although he was ultimately shot down by German anti-aircraft fire on March 21, 1918. Wellman survived the crash but he walked with a pronounced limp for the rest of his life.Wellman's air-combat credits include the following in 1918:
January 19: a German "Rumpler" shot down in front of American lines in Lorraine by Wellman and Thomas Hitchcock.
January 20: a German "Rumpler" shot down near German airfield at Mamy, France; pilot killed/gunner escaped
March 8: forced two observers to jump from an observation balloon (attack unsuccessful; balloon taken down)
March 9: fired on a German "Rumpler" over Parroy; plane escaped, but rear gunner killed.
March 9: shot down a German "Rumpler"; killed rear gunner; pilot killed by airman Ruamps.
March 9: shot down a German "Albatros"; pilot killed; plane fell into American lines
March 17: shot down at least two +one[?] German patrol planes; not confirmed as fight took place over German lines.
March 18: shot down a German "Rumpler;" not confirmed as fight took place over German lines.Maréchal des logis (Sergeant) Wellman received a medical discharge from the Foreign Legion and returned to the United States a few weeks later. He spoke at War Savings Stamp rallies in his French uniform. In September 1918 his book about French flight school and his eventful four months at the front, Go Get 'Em! (written by Wellman with the help of Eliot Harlow Robinson), was published. He joined the United States Army Air Service, but was too late to fly for America in the war. Stationed at Rockwell Field in San Diego, he taught combat tactics to new pilots.

Film career
While in San Diego, Wellman flew to Hollywood for the weekends in his Spad fighter, using Douglas Fairbanks' polo field in Bel Air as a landing strip. Fairbanks was fascinated with the true-life adventures of "Wild Bill" and promised to recommend him for a job in the movie business; he was responsible for Wellman being cast in the juvenile lead of The Knickerbocker Buckaroo (1919). Wellman was hired for the role of a young officer in Evangeline (1919), but he was fired for slapping Miriam Cooper, the film's star and also the wife of the production’s director, Raoul Walsh.

Wellman hated being an actor, thinking it an "unmanly" profession, and was miserable watching himself on screen while learning the craft. He soon switched to working behind the camera, aiming to be a director, and progressed up the line as "a messenger boy, as an assistant cutter, an assistant property man, a property man, an assistant director, second unit director and eventually...director." His first assignment as an assistant director for Bernie Durning provided him with a work ethic that he adopted for future film work. One strict rule that Durning enforced was no fraternization with screen femme fatales, which almost immediately Wellman broke, leading to a confrontation and a thrashing from the director. Despite his transgression, both men became lifelong friends, and Wellman steadily progressed to more difficult first unit assignments.Wellman made his uncredited directorial debut in 1920 at Fox with The Twins of Suffering Creek. The first films he was credited with directing were The Man Who Won and Second Hand Love, released on the same day in 1923. After directing a dozen low-budget 'horse opera' films, Wellman was hired by Paramount in 1927 to direct Wings, a major war drama dealing with fighter pilots during World War I that was highlighted by air combat and flight sequences. The film culminates with the epic Battle of Saint-Mihiel. In the 1st Academy Awards it was one of two films to win Best Picture (the other was Sunrise), although, due to tensions within the studio regarding time and budget overages, Wellman wasn't invited to the event.Wellman's other films include The Public Enemy (1931), the first version of A Star Is Born (1937), Nothing Sacred (1937), Beau Geste (1939) starring Gary Cooper, Thunder Birds (1942), The Ox-Bow Incident (1943), Lady of Burlesque (1943), The Story of G.I. Joe (1945), The Iron Curtain (1948), Battleground (1949) and two films starring and co-produced by John Wayne, Island in the Sky (1953) and The High and the Mighty (1954).While he was primarily a director, Wellman also produced 10 films, one of them uncredited, all of which he also directed. His last film was Lafayette Escadrille (1958), which he produced, directed, wrote the story for and narrated. He wrote the screenplay for two other films that he directed, and one film that he did not direct: 1936's The Last Gangster. Wellman wrote the story for A Star Is Born and (with Robert Carson) received the Academy Award for Best Story. Wellman is credited for the story in the remakes released in 1954, 1976, and 2018. Wellman's work was influenced by his good friend and fellow film director Howard Hawks, with whom he rode motorcycles together in a group called the Moraga Spit and Polish Club. Wellman reportedly worked fast, usually satisfied with a shot after one or two takes. Despite his reputation for not coddling his leading men and women, he coaxed Oscar-nominated performances from seven actors: Fredric March and Janet Gaynor (A Star Is Born), Brian Donlevy (Beau Geste), Robert Mitchum (The Story of G.I. Joe), James Whitmore (Battleground), and Jan Sterling and Claire Trevor (The High and Mighty). Regarding actors, Wellman in a 1952 interview stated, "Movie stardom isn't about acting ability, it's personality and temperament". He then added, "I once directed Clara Bow. She was mad and crazy but what a personality!"

Innovations
Wings led to several firsts in filmmaking including newly invented camera mounts that could be secured to plane fuselages and motor-driven cameras to shoot actors while flying as the cameramen ducked out of frame in their cockpits. Star Richard Arlen had some flying experience but co-star Buddy Rogers had to learn to fly for the film, as stunt pilots could not be used during close-up shots. Towers up to 100 feet were used to shoot low-flying planes and battle action on the ground.During the filming of Beggars of Life, a silent film starring Wallace Beery, Richard Arlen and Louise Brooks, sound was added to Beery's introductory scene at the behest of Paramount Studio. Wellman reportedly hung a microphone from a broom so Beery could walk and talk within the scene, avoiding the static shot required for early sound shoots. During the filming of Chinatown Nights (1929), he sat under the camera on a dolly with the mic between his legs, essentially inventing a shotgun mic.

Awards
Wellman won a single Academy Award, for the story of A Star Is Born. He was nominated as best director three times: for A Star Is Born, Battleground and The High and Mighty, for which he was also nominated by the Directors Guild of America as best director. In 1973, the DGA honored him with a Lifetime Achievement Award. Copies of both Wings and The Story of G.I. Joe are preserved in the Academy Film Archive. Wellman also has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.

Personal life and death
Wellman revealed near the end of his life that he had married a French woman named Renee during his time in The Lafayette Flying Corps. She was killed in a bombing raid during the war. Later, between 1918 and 1934, he married four additional times in the United States:

Helene Chadwick: married (1918-1923) separated after a month; later divorced
Margery Chapin (daughter of Frederic Chapin): married (1925-1926); together for a short time; adopted Robert Emmett Tansey's daughter, Gloria.
Marjorie Crawford: married (1930-1933) divorced
Dorothy "Dottie" Coonan: married (March 20, 1934 – 1975); until his death; they had seven children - four daughters, three sons.Dorothy starred in Wellman's 1933 film Wild Boys of The Road and had seven children with him, including actors Michael Wellman, William Wellman Jr., Maggie Wellman, and Cissy Wellman. His daughter Kathleen "Kitty" Wellman married actor James Franciscus, although they later divorced. His first daughter is Patty Wellman, and he had a third son, Tim Wellman.
William Wellman died of leukemia in 1975 at his Brentwood home in Los Angeles. He was cremated, and his ashes were scattered at sea. His widow Dorothy, at age 95, died on September 16, 2009 in Brentwood, California.

Career assessments
Decades after Wellman's death, William Jr. wrote two biographies about his father, The Man and His Wings: William A. Wellman and the Making of the First Best Picture (2006) and Wild Bill Wellman—Hollywood Rebel (2015). Fellow filmmakers have also examined Wellman's career. Richard Schickel in 1973 devoted an episode of his PBS series The Men Who Made the Movies to Wellman, and in 1996, Todd Robinson made the feature-length documentary Wild Bill: Hollywood Maverick.

Selected filmography
See also
List of ambulance drivers during World War I