Passage 1:
Gustav Skram
Johan Christian Gustav Skram (13 July 1802 – 7 April 1865) was a Danish railroad director. He was the father of danish writer Erik Skram, the second husband of Norwegian writer Amalie Skram.

Career
Skram was the first managing director of the Railway Company of Zealand, from 1844 to 1856, which ran the first railway in Denmark.

Personal life
Skram was born Johan Christian Gustav Schram in Copenhagen, the son of Gerhard Christopher Schram and Anne Johanne Christiane Jørgensen. 
He was married twice, first to silk trader's daughter Johanne Margaretha Klein from 1826 to her death in 1835. In 1837 he married Justice Counsellor's daughter Ida Johanne Hoë (1814–1886). With his second wife he had the son, writer and journalist Asbjørn Oluf Erik Skram (1847–1923), who, from 1884 to 1900, was married to noted Norwegian writer Amalie Skram.
Passage 2:
Johann Christian von Engel
Johann Christian von Engel (1770–1814) was an Austrian historian of Ukrainian, Romanian, Hungarian, Croatian, and German history.

Biography
He was born in Leutschau (today Levoča, Slovakia), then belonging to Kingdom of Hungary under Habsburg monarchy, and received his education at the University of Göttingen, where Heyne and Schlözer were among his teachers. He wrote several historical works which in their day were treasure houses of knowledge and scholarship. He was the first to put the history of Hungary, Ukraine, and the Danubian principalities on a sound scholarly basis. In 1812 he was ennobled.

Works
His greatest works are Die Geschichte der Ukraine und der ukrainische Kosaken, wie auch der Königreiche Halitsch-Wladimir ("History of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Cossacks, along with the Kingdom of Halych-Volodymyr", Halle 1796) Geschichte des ungarischen Reiches und seine Nebenländer (“History of imperial Hungary and neighboring lands,” 5 vols., 1797–1804); Geschichte der Moldau und Walachey (Halle, 1804) and Geschichte des Königreichs Ungarn (“History of the kingdom of Hungary,” 5 vols., 1814).

Notes
Passage 3:
Johann Christian Simon Handt
Johann Christian Simon Handt (born Johann Christian Simon Hundt; 1794 – 7 July 1863) was a German-born Australian minister and missionary of Lutheran faith. Known for being Queensland's first missionary or one of the first, Handt is also said to have brought in the first pineapples in Queensland.

Early life
Handt was born Johann Christian Simon Hundt in 1794. One source lists his birthplace as Aken-on-the-Elbe, Saxony, Germany, others list Prussia. His mother died in 1813 and his father in 1816. He changed his surname to "Handt" after being constantly laughed at for his surname sounding like "Hund" (German for "dog"). Handt went on to become a tailor before enrolling as a missionary; in 1822, Handt moved to Switzerland to attend the Basle Missionary Institute in Basel. He graduated in January 1827.

Career and personal life
In around 1830, the London Missionary Society dispatched Handt to work with natives in Australia, alongside a few other Germans. Handt reached Sydney on 25 June 1831. That year, he travelled with his wife to Wellington, New South Wales, to start missionary work for the New South Wales Church Mission Society. Their work came to an end when one of them came down with an illness and the couple were forced to return to Sydney. He is credited as the first German missionary in New South Wales, and one of the first missionaries in Queensland.Handt is credited with having brought in the first pineapples in Queensland. Handt married Mary Crook (died 1844), the eldest daughter of educator and missionary William Pascoe Cook, in July 1832. They had three children — Sarah, Wilhelm, and Ambrosius. Handt was a Lutheran.

Final years and death
One source states that Handt died at a prison hospital in Geelong, Victoria, on 7 July 1863, aged 70. Another source writes that he died at his residence in Bond Street, Chillwell. It is unclear as to where Handt is buried.

Notes
Passage 4:
Charles Tisch
Carl Johann Christian "Charles" Tisch was an American politician, member of the Wisconsin State Assembly, and historical person for whom Tisch Mills, Wisconsin, was named.

Biography
Tisch was born on May 26, 1829, in Eutin, Germany. In 1851, he settled in what is now Mishicot (town), Wisconsin, in Manitowoc County, Wisconsin. He would build a sawmill and gristmills in what would become Tisch Mills, Wisconsin, which was named after him. On January 10, 1895, Tisch died of blood poisoning in Wausau, Wisconsin.

Political career
Tisch was a member of the Assembly in 1877 and 1878. Other positions he held include County Judge of Kewaunee County, Wisconsin, from 1870 to 1874. He was a Democrat.
Passage 5:
Li Jun (table tennis)
Li Jun (born 30 June 1967) is a female Chinese former international table tennis player. She later represented Japan under the name Junko Haneyoshi.She won bronze medal's at the 1989 World Table Tennis Championships and the 1991 World Table Tennis Championships in the women's doubles with Ding Yaping.

See also
List of table tennis players
List of World Table Tennis Championships medalists
Passage 6:
Johann Christian Hüttner
Johann Christian Hüttner (25 May 1766 – 24 May 1847) was a German translator who settled in the United Kingdom.

Life
Hüttner was born at Guben in Lusatia, Germany. He graduated from the University of Leipzig in 1791, and went to England, as tutor to George Thomas Staunton, son of Sir George Staunton, 1st Baronet. He went with his pupil to China in Lord Macartney's embassy, and was sometimes employed to write official letters in Latin.

In 1807 Hüttner was appointed as translator to the Foreign Office, after Charles Burney, pleased with details on Chinese music, lobbied George Canning. As such he translated from Spanish into German the appeal by Pedro Cevallos to the nations of Europe on Napoleon's invasion of Spain. He kept up relations with Germany, and acted as literary agent to the Grand Duke of Saxe-Weimar.Hüttner's death, after a street accident, took place on 24 May 1847, at Fludyer Street, Westminster.

Works
Hüttner sent accounts of experiences in China to friends in Germany. A copy of them was sold to a Leipzig bookseller, and friends brought out an authentic text, which appeared at Berlin in 1797, entitled Nachricht von der brittischen Gesandtschaftsreise durch China und einen Theil der Tartarei. The work anticipated the official account. French translations were published in 1799 and 1804.Other works were:

De Mythis Platonis, Leipzig, 1788;
Hindu Gesetzbuch oder Menu's Verordnungen, an edited translation of Sir William Jones's English translation of the Laws of Manu from the Sanskrit, Weimar, 1797;
Englische Miscellen herausgegeben (Bd. 5-25), Tübingen, 1800 and onwards;
An edition, with German notes, of James Townley's farce High Life Below Stairs, Tübingen, 1802.He also contributed to German encyclopedias and periodicals.

Family
Hüttner was twice married, but left no issue.

Notes

Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Lee, Sidney, ed. (1891). "Hüttner, Johann Christian". Dictionary of National Biography. Vol. 28. London: Smith, Elder & Co.
Passage 7:
Johann Christian Gustav Lucae
Johann Christian Gustav Lucae (14 March 1814, Frankfurt am Main – 3 February 1885, Frankfurt am Main) was a German anatomist known for his studies in the field of craniology.

Biography
From 1833 he studied medicine at the universities of Marburg and Würzburg, receiving his doctorate at Marburg in 1839. After graduation he settled as a general practitioner in his hometown of Frankfurt. Beginning in 1845 he worked as a lecturer of pathology at the Senckenberg Institute of Anatomy. From 1851 he taught classes in anatomy and subsequently became director of the institute, a position he maintained up until his death. In 1863 he obtained the title of professor, and in 1869 began teaching anatomy classes at the Städel Art Institute.

In collaboration with sculptor Eduard Schmidt von der Launitz, he developed improved methods for drawing anatomical objects.Lucae was one of the 56 fouding members of the Freies Deutsches Hochstift (Free German Foundation).

Selected writings
Schädelzeichnungen, 1840 – – Anatomical drawings of skulls.
Zur Morphologie des Säugethier-Schädels, 1872 – The morphology of mammal skulls.
Affen- und Menschenschädel im Bau und Wachsthum verglichen, 1873 – Monkey and human skulls in construction and growth compared.
Zur Morphologie der Rassen-Schädel, einleitende Bemerkungen und Beiträge; ein Sendschreiben an Carl Ernst v. Baer, 1876 – The morphology of racial skulls;  Introductory remarks and contributions; a missive to Karl Ernst von Baer.
Die Robbe und die Otter (Phoca vitulina und Lutra vulgaris) : in ihrem Knochen-und Muskel-skelet, 1876 – The seal and the otter (Lutra vulgaris and Phoca vitulina): involving bone and musculoskeleton.
Die statik und mechanik der quadrupeden an dem skelet und den muskeln eines lemur und eines choloepus, 1883 – The statics and mechanics of quadrupeds ... the skeleton and muscles of lemurs and Choloepus.
Passage 8:
Johann Christian Jacobi (oboist)
Johann Christian Jacobi (1719 – 1784) was a German oboist and composer of the Baroque period.

Life
Jacobi was born in Tilsit, Prussian Lithuania (now Sovetsk, Russia). He had his first lessons on the oboe from his father, a skilled player of the violin and oboe. After the premature death of his father, he spent a period of self-tuition before moving to Berlin where he immediately sought lessons with the royal Kammermusicus and famous oboe virtuoso Peter Glösch. In 1746, he was accepted into the Hofkapelle of Frederick the Great and, at this time, began studying composition with his colleague, the flautist Friedrich Wilhelm Riedt.By 1754, Jacobi was employed as the principal oboist in the Hofkapelle of Frederick the Great's cousin, Charles Frederick Albert, Margrave of Brandenburg-Schwedt in Berlin. On the recommendation of Johann Joachim Quantz, in 1768 King Frederick appointed Jacobi as the director of the Hautboistenschule in Potsdam, responsible for training the nearly 2,000 oboists in the Prussian army.Jacobi was a member of the "Freitagsakademien" (Friday academies), a musical society which met each Friday at the house of Johann Gottlieb Janitsch. For Jacobi, Janitsch was said to have composed all manner of trios, quartets and concertos in "all the usual and unusual keys". Such pieces allowed Jacobi to improve his skills as an oboist, and earned him a great reputation amongst Berlin's musical societies. Two works  by Janitsch bear a dedication to Jacobi, and several other works in extremely uncharacteristic keys for the oboe by Janitsch can be presumed to have been composed for him. They are a testament to his great skill on the instrument. Bruce Haynes lists him among the great oboists of the baroque period.Unfortunately, no compositions by Jacobi have survived.
Passage 9:
Johann Gottlieb Kugelann
Johann Gottlieb Kugelann (2 January 1753 – 8 September 1815) was a German entomologist. A pharmacist by profession, Kugelann worked on Coleoptera.He published (with Johann Karl Wilhelm Illiger and Johann Christian Ludwig Hellwig) in 1798 Verzeichniss der Käfer Preussens.
Passage 10:
Ding Yaping
Ding Yaping (born in 1967), not to be confused with Deng Yaping, is a female Chinese and German former international table tennis player.She won bronze medal's at the 1989 World Table Tennis Championships and the 1991 World Table Tennis Championships in the women's doubles with Li Jun.She later represented Germany.

See also
List of table tennis players
List of World Table Tennis Championships medalists