Passage 1:
Black King (comics)
Black King, in comics, may refer to:

Marvel Comics characters, members of Hellfire Club, in various branches at various times. The title also gives its owner complete ownership of the club.
Sebastian Shaw (comics), as originally introduced in X-Men comics
Blackheart, part of Selene's reformed group
Sunspot (comics), replaced Sebastian Shaw when he became Lord Imperial
DC Comics characters, who are members of Checkmate:
Amanda Waller, former organizer of Suicide Squad
Maxwell Lord, former organizer of the Justice League

See also
Black King (disambiguation)
White King (comics)
Black Queen (comics)
Passage 2:
The Black King (film)
The Black King is a comedy-drama 1932 race film chronicling the rise and fall of a fictionalized charismatic leader of a back-to-Africa movement, modeled on the life of Marcus Garvey. The film was directed by Bud Pollard.

Themes
The Black King chronicles the rise and fall of a fictionalized charismatic leader of a back-to-Africa movement, satirizing the life of Marcus Garvey. The film explores numerous critiques of Garvey's movement, including the lack of knowledge about Africa, the presumptuousness in making plans for future development and government in Africa without consultation of people already there, and conflicts between lighter skinned and darker skinned African Americans. While Garvey was a primarily a political leader with religious opinions, his counterpart in the film was primarily a preacher and religious leader. The film was intended to resonate with the audience's pre-existing disillusionment with Garvey.

History
The Black King was written as a stage play by Donald Heywood and plans were publicly announced to produce it on Broadway directed by Russian choreographer Léonide Massine. This never took place. Instead, Heywood's story was adapted by Morris M. Levinson and it was produced as a film by Southland Pictures under white director Bud Pollard in 1932. The film was re-released in the 1940s under the title, Harlem Big Shot.

Cast
A.B. DeComathiere as Charcoal Johnson
Vivianne Baber as Mary Lou Lawton
Knolly Mitchell as Sug
Dan Micahels as Brother Longtree
Mike Jackson as Brother Lawton
James Dunmore as Nappy
Harry Gray as Deacon Jones
Mary Jane Watkins as Mrs. Bottoms
Freeman Fairley as Mob Leader
Ishmay Andrews as Mrs. Ashfoot
Trixie Smith as Delta
Lorenzo Tucker as Carmichael

Reception
Daniel J. Leab, a 1975 commentator, rates it well as entertainment, saying it has "a more carefully plotted storyline than most other black genre films of its time". Kevin Thomas of the Los Angeles Times wrote in 1988 that despite the film's small budget, the film has "considerable scope and energy ... largely due to a dynamic, brutally comic burlesque of ... [lead actor] A. B. Comathiere".

Citations
Passage 3:
Indradhanura Chhai
Indradhanura Chhai is a 1993 Indian Oriya film directed by Susant Misra. This film reflects  the traditional structures of social and family life of a small town in India are growing strongly affected by the progressive urbanization of the country.  Three generations of women see their perception of human nature to evolve, as their personal relationships.  In their loneliness, they face problems of tradition, culture, religion and manage gender relations.  Gradual urbanization and its consequences affect the traditional, social and family structures in a growing small town in India.  The story explores the multidimensional conflicts of three women of different generations, their changing perceptions about human nature and personal relationships.  Their lonely moments are highlighted in the context of the inexorable flow of time amidst issues of tradition, culture, religion and man-woman relationships.

Synopsis
The film looks at the lives of three women living in Bhubaneshwar. Vijaya's husband died a few days after their wedding and she is trying to cope with her feelings for a kind, local teacher. Her friend, Sonia, is caught between modernity and traditional notions of female virtue while Aunt Nila has difficulty in facing up to getting old.

Cast
Robin Das as Pratap
Vijayani Mishra as  Vijaya
Sonia Mohapatra  as Sonia
Surya Mohanty as Sales Representative
Deba Das as Deb
Muktabala Rautray as Widow
Anjana Chowdhury

Crew
Susant Misra - Director
Susant Misra - Story & Screenplay
Jugala Debata -   Producer
Chakradhar Sahu - Editor
Devdas Chhotray - Dialogue
Jugala Debata - Director of Photography
Vikash Das - Music
Asim Basu - Art Director
Himanshu Shekhar Khatur - Sound

Music
Vikash Das has arranged music for this film

Review
Susant Mishra's Indradhanura Chhai (Shadows of the Rainbow ) shows how urbanization and the consequent rise of modern consumerism have affected the traditional social and family structures in Bhubaneswar. Against the backdrop of this changing cityscape, Indradhanura Chhai explores the multidimensional conflicts of its characters, their changing perceptions about human nature and personal relationships. With hypnotic visual rhythms, Susant Mishra shows the lives of three women living in the modernizing town of Bhubaneswar, its skyline dominated by magnificent temple architecture.

Awards & participation
Sochi International Film Festival, Russia( 1995) -Grand Prix for the Best Feature Film
National Film Awards, India(1994) -Special Jury award
Cannes Film Festival, (1995) - Official Selection in Un Certain Regard
Orissa State Film Awards, (1994) - Best Direction, Best Dialogues & Screenplay, Best Supporting Actress and Special Jury Award
Cairo International Film Festival
Rotterdam International Film Festival
Moscow International Film Festival
International Film Festival for Nouveau Cinema, Montreal
Festival at Institute Lumiere, Paris
Screened as the Closing Film of the Indomania "100 Years of Indian Cinema" Celebration in Paris
1st Bhubaneswar Film Festival
Passage 4:
The Death of the West (disambiguation)
The Death of the West is a 2001 book by paleoconservative commentator Patrick J. Buchanan.
The Death of the West may also refer to:

Death of the West (album), a 2002 Babylon Whores album
The Death of the West (album), a 1994 Sol Invictus album
Passage 5:
Kayra
Kayra or Kaira (Old Turkic: 𐰴𐰖𐰺𐰀) is the creator god in Turkic mythology. He is the god who planted the tree of life called Ulukayın. Kayra is described as both father and mother, and resides in the 17th layer of heaven.He is the supreme god of the pantheon and the son of sky deity named Tengri. This son, Kara Han (the black king or ruler of the land – Kara may mean land, earth, black or in a sense strong, powerful), left his father's home in the heaven and went to live in the underworld. On occasion, identified as Kara-Khan (black king), he was the primordial god and his father was the ancordial god called Tengri.

Etymology
The name of this deity is found in several forms, as is that of his opponent. "Kayra-Khan" may be translated as "merciful king", while the form "Kara Han" signifies "black king". For this reason, authority on Turkic Mythology Deniz Karakurt, considers Kara-Han and Kayra-Han to be two different deities. Furthermore, the Turkish word kara can mean both black and land, with the result that Kara Han can mean not only 'Black (Dark) Ruler' but also 'Ruler of the Land'.

God of Creation
In ancient Turkic  belief known as Altai myth of creation, Tangri (God) Kara Han is neither male nor female nor even human in form, but a pure-white goose that flies constantly over an endless expanse of water (time), the benign creator of all that is, including the other, lesser gods. Among all Altai people the dualistic division is most clear (Ulgen and Erlik), and the highest god, Tengre Kaira Khan, is a good power. But before Ak Ana appears to urge it to create, Kara-han becomes anxious, creation occurring in a context of loneliness, turmoil and fear: the water becomes turbulent, but it reassures itself that it "need not fear" (the implication of such self-reassurance being that it is indeed afraid). Supreme being in the universe it created, Kara-han is the ruler of the three realms of air, water and land, seated on the seventeenth level of the universe, from which it determines the fate of its creation. After creating the universe it planted the nine-boughed tree of life, from the branches of which came the ancestors of humans. Thus emerged the nine races (nine clans).
It has three sons: Ulgan, Mergen and Kyzaghan.
A Tuvinian / Soyoth legend, told as follows: The giant turtle which supported the earth moved, which caused the cosmic ocean to begin flooding the earth. An old man who had guessed something like this would happen, built a raft. Boarded it with his family, and he was saved. When the waters receded, the raft was left on a high wooded mountain, where, it is said, it remains today. After the flood Kaira-Khan created everything around the world. Among other things, he taught people how to make Araq (some kind of liquor).

See also
Bai-Ulgan
Turul
Passage 6:
Black King
Black King may refer to:

The black king (chess)
A black king (playing card), either the King of Spades or the King of Clubs
Black King (comics), a number of comics characters
Black King, a character in Syphon Filter: Dark Mirror
Black King (Ultra monster), a kaiju from Return of Ultraman
Lampropeltis getula, the Black King Snake
The Black King (film), a 1932 race film starring A.B. DeComathiere
Dub, King of Scotland, King of Alba, occasionally referred to as The Black King

See also
Black Is King, a 2020 film and visual album by Beyoncé
Passage 7:
The Death of Black King
The Death of Black King (Czech: Smrt černého krále) is a 1971 Czechoslovak film. The film starred Vlastimil Brodský, Jaroslav Marvan, Josef Vinklář, Josef Kemr, Stanislav Fišer, etc.
Passage 8:
The Death of Nelson
The Death of Nelson may refer to any of the following paintings depicting the death of Horatio Nelson, 1st Viscount Nelson:

The Death of Nelson (West painting), an 1806 work by Benjamin West
The Death of Nelson, 21 October 1805, an 1807 work by Arthur William Devis
The Death of Nelson (Maclise painting), an 1859–64 work by Daniel Maclise
Passage 9:
The Death of Tragedy
The Death of Tragedy may refer to:

The Death of Tragedy (Abney Park album) (2005)
The Death of Tragedy (Tragedy Khadafi album) (2007)
The Death of Tragedy, a 1961 work of literary criticism by George Steiner