Passage 1:
Catherine of Bosnia, Grand Princess of Hum
Catherine of Bosnia (Serbo-Croatian: Katarina Kotromanić / Катарина Котроманић; 1294–1355) was daughter of Stephen I, Ban of Bosnia and sister of Stephen II, Ban of Bosnia.
She was daughter of Stephen I, Ban of Bosnia and his wife Elizabeth of Syrmia. She was born in 1294, in Srebrenik. She had six siblings, five brothers, Stephen II, Vladislav, Ninoslav, Miroslav and unknown brother, and a sister named Mary. In autumn 1314 she was in exile with family in Dubrovnik. Catherine will marry prince Nikola of Hum sometime before 1338. Nikola was knyaz from Hum 1322, which Stephen II, brother of Catherine, at the time Ban of Bosnia, annexed to his realm. After the annexation, Ban granted Nikola positions in župas in Bosansko Primorje, at the southern edge of the realm, region between the Neretva Delta and Ragusa, bestowing him with the right to rule most of the Popovo. He is ruled this župa as long as he lived. Catherine and Nikola had two sons:

Vladislav Nikolić
Bogiša NikolićCatherine died in 1355 in Bribir.
Passage 2:
Catherine of Austria, Lady of Coucy
Catherine of Austria (German: Katharina von Habsburg; French: Catherine d'Autriche; 9 February 1320 – 28 September 1349) was the daughter of the Habsburg Duke Leopold I of Austria and the wife successively of the French nobleman Enguerrand VI, Lord of Coucy and the German Konrad von Hardeck, Burgrave of Magdeburg.

Early life and family
Catherine was the oldest of two daughters born to Leopold I, Duke of Austria and his wife Catherine of Savoy. Her younger sister was Agnes of Austria, who married Bolko II the Small, Duke of Świdnica. On their father's side, the two were granddaughters of Albert I of Germany, while their maternal grandparents were Amadeus V, Count of Savoy and his second wife Maria of Brabant.Her father died when Catherine was 6 years of age, and she and 4-year-old Agnes were placed under the guardianship of their paternal uncles, Frederick the Fair and Albert II, Duke of Austria.

Marriages
At the age of 18, Catherine married her first husband Enguerrand VI, Lord of Coucy, a French nobleman. The marriage contract was signed at Vincennes on 25 November 1338. The marriage produced one son, Enguerrand. The couple were married for eight years when in 1346, Enguerrand VI was killed in one of a series of battles which ended with the Battle of Crécy on 26 August 1346, as part of the Hundred Years' War between France and England. Their son Enguerrand succeeded his father as Lord of Coucy, and he later married Isabella, eldest daughter of King Edward III of England.
Catherine remarried nearly two years after her first husband's death in February 1348 to Konrad, Burgrave of Magdeburg. The couple were married for just over a year when Konrad succumbed to the Black Death on 25 September 1349, Catherine herself dying three days later; she was buried at Königsfelden. She was outlived by her son Enguerrand.
Passage 3:
Catherine of Taranto, Countess of Copertino
Catherine of Taranto (sometimes Caterina d'Enghien Orsini del Balzo) was the daughter of Mary of Enghien and Raimondo Orsini del Balzo di Nola and sister of Giovanni Antonio Orsini del Balzo.
She married the knight Tristan de Clermont (1380 – c. 1432), a member of the French family of Clermont-Lodève, who became Count of Copertino as part of her dowry.
She and Tristan had two daughters: 

Isabella of Clermont (c. 1424 – 30 March 1465), who became Queen of Naples and Jerusalem by marriage to Ferdinand I of Naples, illegitimate son of King Alfonso V of Aragon.
Sancia di Chiaromonte (died 30 March 1468), Countess of Copertino and Lady of Nardò. In 1436 she married Francesco II del Balzo (1410–1482), 3rd Duke of Andria, who became Count of Copertino as part of her dowry.
Passage 4:
Joan of Taranto
Joan of Taranto (died March 1323) was Queen of Armenia by marriage to Oshin, King of Armenia. As daughter of Philip I, Prince of Taranto, she was a member of the Capetian House of Anjou.

Life
Joan was daughter of Philip I, Prince of Taranto, and his first wife Thamar Angelina Komnene.Joan's parents did not have a good relationship: Philip suspected Thamar of acting in her family's interests over his during the two-year conflict that raged between the Capetian House of Anjou and Epirus, despite the fact that she had pawned the remainder of her jewellery to help him pay for the military effort. Distrustful of Thamar, Philip decided to divorce her and in 1309 accused her of having committed adultery. She was forced into confessing that she had had sexual relationships with at least forty of the lords of his court, and that she had formed a particular relationship with Bartolomeo Siginulfo, the Grand Chamberlain of Taranto. Thamar became an outcast, probably never seeing her children again, she either became a nun or was imprisoned by Philip. In either case she died not long afterwards in 1311.
Shortly following her mother's death, Joan acquired a stepmother in Catherine of Valois, who Philip married in July 1313. From this marriage Joan acquired five half-siblings, including Philip II, Prince of Taranto.

Queen
In February 1316, Joan married her first husband, Oshin, King of Armenia. Joan was Oshin's third wife, from his first marriage he had had a son Leo. From this marriage she adopted the name Eirene. The couple were only married for four years.
Upon his death, on 20 July 1320, Oshin was succeeded by his minor son Leo (sometimes referred to as Leo V). It was believed that Oshin was poisoned.
Soon after Oshin's death, his cousin Oshin of Korikos became regent. He wished to make himself and his family more secure in Armenia. Steps were taken to make this happen; Oshin married Joan, who was forced into the marriage. Oshin married his daughter Alice off to Joan's stepson Leo. Oshin was also probably responsible for the deaths of King Oshin's sister Isabella and two of her sons, in order to remove rival claimants.
Joan died in March 1323, she was outlived by her ill-fated second husband.
Six years after Joan's death, Leo reached majority, he took revenge on his regent. Joan's husband and brother-in-law Constantine, Constable of Armenia and Lord of Lampron, and Leo's wife Alice were all murdered on the king's orders, the head of Oshin being sent to the Ilkhan and of Constantine to Al-Nasr Muhammad.

Issue
In her first marriage she had one child:

George (1317 – after 1323), died youngOshin and Joan had one daughter:

Maria who consecutively married two Armenian Kings of Cilicia, Constantine V and Constantine VI. She had issue.
Passage 5:
Catherine of Cleves (1417–1479)
Catherine of Cleves (25 May 1417 – 10 February 1479) was Duchess of Guelders by marriage to Arnold, Duke of Guelders. She acted as regent of Guelders during the absence of her spouse in 1450. The Hours of Catherine of Cleves was commissioned for her.

Life
Catherine was the daughter of Adolph I, Duke of Cleves and Marie of Burgundy. She was a niece of Philip the Good.

Duchess and regent
Catherine lived with her parents until 1431, despite already having been married the year before. She had close ties with Philip of Burgundy, who was mistrusted by her husband. Catherine had her daughter Mary raised at the Burgundian court. When her husband punished Driel, he lost support in his duchy. Catherine acted as intermediate between her husband and the Estates of the realm. In 1450, Duke Arnold went on a pilgrimage to Rome and Palestine. During his absence, Catherine acted as regent.She supported her son Adolf when he took over power from his father. Charles, Duke of Burgundy had Adolf taken capture in 1470, when he proved an unreliable ally to Burgundy. Catherine spent her last years in Lobith, where she died in 1476.

Book of Hours
The Hours of Catherine of Cleves was commissioned for her when she married Arnold, Duke of Guelders, on 26 January 1430. It shows her lineage, as well as herself in prayer. The hours had been lost for four hundred years before resurfacing in 1856. It is one of the most richly decorated books of its kind that is preserved.

Issue
Catherine and Arnold had:

Mary (c. 1431–1463), who became Queen of Scotland by marriage to James II
William (born c. 1434), died young
Margaret (c. 1436–1486, Simmern), married on 16 August 1454 to Frederick I, Count of Palatine-Simmern.
Adolf (1438–1477)
Catherine (1439 – 1496), Regent of Guelders in 1477–1481.

Ancestry
Passage 6:
Catherine of Valois–Courtenay
Catherine II, also Catherine of Valois or Catherine of Taranto (before 15 April 1303 – October 1346), was the recognised Latin Empress of Constantinople from 1307–1346, although she lived in exile and only had authority over Crusader States in Greece. She was Princess consort of Achaea and Taranto, and also regent of Achaea from 1332–1341, and Governor of Cephalonia from 1341–1346.

Life
She was born in 1303, sometime before 15 April, the eldest daughter of Charles, count of Valois, and Catherine I.Her mother was recognized as Empress of the Latin Empire of Constantinople by the Latin states in Greece, despite the city having been captured by the Empire of Nicaea in 1261. Catherine inherited her claims as the titular Empress on 11 October 1307. She was still a child and remained in the custody of her father, who managed her claims to the empire until his death in 1325.
An early betrothal to Hugh of Burgundy, made on 15 April 1303 when she was an infant, was renounced in 1312.

Naples
In July 1313, Catherine married Philip I of Taranto, King of Albania and Prince of Achaea, who was the younger brother of Robert, King of Naples. She associated her husband as titular Emperor (Philip II), and retained the claim to the empire after his death on 23 December 1332. Robert, his eldest surviving son, succeeded him as Prince of Taranto in 1331. Catherine became influential at the court of Naples.
Her court was more worldly than the pious court of King Robert and his pious wife, Sancha of Majorca. During the reign of her niece, Joanna I of Naples, she opposed the marriage of Joan's younger sister, Maria of Calabria, to Charles, Duke of Durazzo. This was because Maria was heir presumptive to the throne of Naples, and the Durazzos were rivals to her own family. She and her family were compensated with a cash settlement from the royal treasury.

Achaea
In 1333, her son Robert received the Principality of Achaea through an agreement with his uncle, John of Gravina. However, the thirteen-year-old boy was deemed too young to reign alone, and his mother became his co-ruler for the rest of her life. Initially ruling through appointed baillis, in summer 1338 Catherine mustered a fleet and took her whole household to Achaea, where she took an active part in its government.  She gave refuge to Nikephoros II Orsini of Epirus, and supported him in his attempt to assert himself in his land against the Byzantine Emperor Andronikos III Palaiologos.

Final Years
Her presence in Achaea was no longer needed by the time Robert reached adulthood in 1341. She became Governor of Cephalonia and spent the last five years of her life in this responsibility. After the murder of Joan's husband, Andrew of Hungary, Joan sought a new husband amongst her Taranto cousins. Catherine supported her younger son, Louis of Taranto, against her older son, Robert. She sheltered Charles of Artois, a bastard son of Robert the Wise, and his son Bertrand, who were both suspected of complicity. When asked to give them up, she refused and stated she would punish them herself if they were guilty.
She died in Naples in October 1346. Queen Joan organized her funeral at the church of San Domenico.

Issue
By Philip I of Taranto, Catherine II had four children:

Margaret (c. 1325–1380), married Francis of Baux, Duke of Andria. By Francis, she was the mother of James of Baux, Prince of Achaea and titular Emperor of Constantinople.
Robert (1326–1364), Prince of Taranto, titular Emperor of Constantinople (as Robert II).
Louis (1327/28–1362), Prince of Taranto and King of Naples by right of his wife.
Philip II (1329–1374), Prince of Taranto and Achaea, titular Emperor of Constantinople (as Philip III).

Ancestry
Notes
Passage 7:
Isabella of Clermont
Isabella of Clermont (c. 1424 – 30 March 1465), also known as Isabella of Taranto, was queen of Naples as the first wife of King Ferdinand I of Naples, and a feudatory of the kingdom as the holder and ruling Princess of the Principality of Taranto in 1463–1465.

Life
Born on January 1424 in Copertino (in southern Apulia), Isabella was the elder daughter of Tristan de Clermont, Count of Copertino, and Caterina Orsini Del Balzo. She was also the niece and heir of childless Giovanni Antonio Orsini del Balzo, Prince of Taranto. Her maternal grandmother, Mary of Enghien, was queen consort of Naples from 1406 until 1414.
On 30 May 1444/1445, Isabella married Ferdinand of Aragon, then Duke of Calabria (1423–1494), natural son of Alfonso V of Aragon who had recently conquered the Neapolitan kingdom from French Angevins, and thus was the new liege lord of Isabella and her family. Alfonso arranged this marriage in order to give a good future to his favorite bastard son, by giving him his own principality by marriage. Also, Alfonso wanted his loyal people (such as his own son) to have feudal fiefs in his new kingdom, which would happen in the future as soon as Ferdinand and Isabella succeeded in Taranto. The marriage also strengthened the king's grip on the current lords of Taranto.
On 27 June 1458 Isabella's husband became, by the will of his father, king of Naples. Isabella became queen. They no longer wanted to make Taranto their principal holding, but it was still a strong possession, and in 1463 Isabella succeeded her uncle Giovanni Antonio as princess of Taranto.
Queen Isabella died on 30 March 1465, and was buried in San Pietro Martire. Her heir was her eldest son, the future King Alfonso II of Naples.

Issue
Isabella had six children with Ferdinand:

Alfonso II of Naples (4 November 1448 – 18 December 1495)
Eleanor of Naples (22 June 1450 – 11 October 1493), duchess of Bari and Ferrara
Frederick IV of Naples (19 April 1452 – 9 November 1504)
John of Naples (25 June 1456 – 17 October 1485), archbishop of Taranto and then cardinal
Beatrice of Naples (14 September/16 November 1457 – 23 September 1508), queen of Hungary
Francis of Naples, Duke of Sant Angelo (16 December 1461 – 26 October 1486)
Passage 8:
Mary of Enghien
Mary of Enghien, also known as Maria d'Enghien (1367 or 1370 – 9 May 1446), was Countess of Lecce from 1384 to 1446 and Queen of Naples and titular Queen of Sicily, Jerusalem and Hungary from 1406 to 1414 by marriage to Ladislaus of Naples.

Biography
Early life
Probably born in Lecce, she was the daughter of John of Enghien, Count of Castro, and Sancia Del Balzo. Her father was the third son of Isabella of Brienne (who died in 1360) and her husband, Walter of Enghien (who died in 1345).
Her paternal grandmother Isabella survived her brother Walter VI of Brienne, titular Duke of Athens etc., who died without issue at the Battle of Poitiers in 1356. As his heir, she became Countess of Lecce and Brienne etc. and titular Duchess of Athens. As her eldest son, Walter, had died before her brother, her second son, Sohier of Enghien, became her heir. She allowed her inherited lands to be divided among her numerous children during her lifetime. Mary's father, the third (but second surviving) son, had received the County of Lecce and the Lordship of Castro.

Countess of Lecce
Mary's father, John, died in 1380, leaving minor children. Mary's brother Peter of Enghien, also known as Pyrrhus (Pyrro or Pirro), became Count of Lecce. However, Peter died childless in 1384 and was succeeded by Mary and her husband, Raimondo del Balzo Orsini di Nola, whom she married in Taranto the same year.
Chroniclers describe her as beautiful, fearless and adventurous: adored by her children, loved by her first husband, besieged by King Ladislaus of Naples and treated cruelly by the king's sister.
She stayed in her castles of Lecce and Copertino when Raimondo travelled and served the king against the papal troops and the supporters of the junior Angevin line. She was occupied by her children, Marias, Caterina, Giovanni Antonio and Gabriele.
Raimondo became Prince of Taranto (in her hereditary rights) and died in 1406.

Queen of Naples
After her husband's death, she was besieged in Taranto (1406) and resisted the troops of Ladislaus until he decided to propose to her. Thus forced to marry Ladislaus, the wedding took place in the chapel of the Castle of Taranto. Her second marriage remained childless. Ladislaus died on 6 August 1414; his sister and successor, Joanna II of Naples, described as cruel, hated Mary and imprisoned her. However, Joanna's husband, James II, Count of La Marche, soon allowed her to leave.  She returned to Lecce after Joanna had expelled her and her children from the royal estates to Tarentine lands.
Mary lived a long life and died in Lecce at the age of 78. In 1444 she witnessed the marriage of her granddaughter Isabella of Clermont, daughter of Tristan and Catherine and heiress to considerable feudal estates in Southern Italy, to Ferdinand of Aragon. He was the illegitimate son of King Alfonso V of Aragon, who had conquered Southern Italy in 1441.

Children
Her children were:

Maria del Balzo Orsini (died after 1410), married Antonio di Acquaviva, Duke of Atri, etc. Childless.
Caterina del Balzo Orsini, also known as Catherine of Taranto. Married to Bartholomew Tristan of Clermont (Bartolomeo Tristano di Chiaramonte or Chiaromonte), a knight of the French de Clermont-Lodeve family. Tristan became Count of Capertino with his wife's dowry (the Catherine del Balzo Orsini, who lived almost at the same time and married Giulio Antonio di Aragona di Acquaviva, Duke of Atri, etc., bringing him the dowry of Casamassima and Conversano, was apparently not this Catherine but a relative, perhaps the daughter of Giovanni Antonio or the daughter of Gabriel, Duke of Venosa).
Giovanni Antonio del Balzo Orsini, John, Prince of Taranto. Died childless in 1463, when his niece Isabella brought the fiefs to her husband King Ferrante.
(possibly natural son of her husband) Gabriele del Balzo Orsini (d. 1453), Count of Ugento, etc., Duke of Venosa. Married Giovanna Caracciolo del Sole dei Duchi di Melfi.
Passage 9:
Euphrosina Heldina von Dieffenau
Euphrosina Heldina von Dieffenau, or Heldin (died 1636), was a Swedish courtier.
Originally from Germany, she became courtier to Catherine of Sweden, Countess Palatine of Kleeburg in 1590. After the death of Catherine's  mother, Maria of the Palatinate-Simmern, she became the lady-in-waiting, nurse and in practice foster mother of Catherine. She were the confidant of Catherine and the two of them had a close relationship for the rest of their life, sometimes by letters, which are preserved. She married a German officer in Swedish service, but remained in the service of Catherine also after Catherine's marriage as her Mistress of the Robes. She was described as educated and seen as a role model for female nobles in this regard, could speak Latin and was given the task to practice reading and prayer with the heir to the throne, Gustav II Adolf of Sweden, and converse with foreign ambassadors.
Passage 10:
Where Was I
"Where Was I?" may refer to:

Books
"Where Was I?", essay by David Hawley Sanford from The Mind's I
Where Was I?, book by John Haycraft 2006
Where was I?!, book by Terry Wogan 2009

Film and TV
Where Was I? (film), 1925 film directed by William A. Seiter. With Reginald Denny, Marian Nixon, Pauline Garon, Lee Moran.
Where Was I? (2001 film), biography about songwriter Tim Rose
Where Was I? (TV series) 1952–1953 Quiz show with the panelists attempting to guess a location by looking at photos
"Where Was I?" episode of Shoestring (TV series) 1980

Music
"Where was I", song by W. Franke Harling and Al Dubin performed by Ruby Newman and His Orchestra  with vocal chorus by  Larry Taylor and Peggy McCall  1939
"Where Was I", single from Charley Pride discography 1988
"Where Was I" (song), a 1994 song by Ricky Van Shelton
"Where Was I (Donde Estuve Yo)", song by Joe Pass from Simplicity (Joe Pass album)
"Where Was I?", song by Guttermouth from The Album Formerly Known as a Full Length LP (Guttermouth album)
"Where Was I", song by Sawyer Brown (Billy Maddox, Paul Thorn, Anne Graham) from Can You Hear Me Now 2002
"Where Was I?", song  by  Kenny Wayne Shepherd from Live On  1999
"Where Was I", song by Melanie Laine (Victoria Banks, Steve Fox) from Time Flies (Melanie Laine album)
"Where Was I", song by Rosie Thomas from With Love (Rosie Thomas album)