Passage 1:
Dance with a Stranger
Dance with a Stranger  is a 1985 British film directed by Mike Newell. Telling the story of Ruth Ellis, the last woman to be hanged in Britain (1955), the film won critical acclaim, and aided the careers of two of its leading actors, Miranda Richardson and Rupert Everett. The screenplay was by Shelagh Delaney, author of A Taste of Honey, and was her third major screenplay. The story of Ellis has resonance in Britain because it provided part of the background to the extended national debates that led to the progressive abolition of capital punishment from 1965.
The theme song "Would You Dance with a Stranger?" was performed by Mari Wilson and was released as a single.

Plot
A former nude model and prostitute, Ruth is manageress of a drinking club in London that has racing drivers as its main clients. Ruth lives in a flat above the bar with her illegitimate son Andy. Another child is in the custody of her estranged husband's family.
In the club, she meets David, an immature, young man from a well-off family who wants to succeed in motor racing but suffers from lack of money and overuse of alcohol. Ruth falls for his looks and charm, but it is a doomed relationship. Without a job, he cannot afford to marry her, and his family would never accept her. When he makes a drunken scene in the club, she is discharged from her job, which means that she is made homeless.
Desmond, a wealthy admirer, secures a flat for her and her son, but she still sees David. When she tells him she is pregnant, he does nothing about it, and she miscarries. Distraught, she goes to a house in Hampstead where she believes David is at a party. He comes out and goes with a girl to a pub. Ruth waits outside the pub, and when he emerges, she shoots him dead with four shots. She is arrested, tried and hanged.

Cast
Miranda Richardson as Ruth Ellis
Rupert Everett as David Blakely
Ian Holm as Desmond Cussen
Stratford Johns as Morrie Conley
Joanne Whalley as Christine
Tom Chadbon as Anthony Findlater
Jane Bertish as Carole Findlater
David Troughton as Cliff Davis
Tracy Louise Ward as Girl with Blakeley
Matthew Carroll as Andy
Lesley Manville as Maryanne
David Beale as Man in Little Club
Charon Bourke as Ballroom Singer

Reception
The film made a comfortable profit. Goldcrest Films invested £253,000 in the film and received £361,000, making them a profit of £108,000.

Critical response
On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 91%, based on reviews from 11 critics.

Accolades
Mike Newell won Award of the Youth at the 1985 Cannes Film Festival for Dance with a Stranger. Miranda Richardson won Best Actress at the Evening Standard British Film Awards, and Ian Holm won Boston Society of Film Critics Awards 1985 for this and other performances.
Passage 2:
Call Me (film)
Call Me is a 1988 American erotic thriller film about a woman who strikes up a relationship with a stranger over the phone, and in the process becomes entangled in a murder. The film was directed by Sollace Mitchell, and stars Patricia Charbonneau, Stephen McHattie, and Boyd Gaines.

Plot
Anna, a young and energetic journalist, receives an obscene call from an unknown caller whom she mistakes for her boyfriend. As a result of this mistake she agrees to meet with the caller at a local bar. There she witnesses a murder in the women's bathroom. She finds herself drawn into a mystery involving both the killer and the mysterious caller who she shares increasingly personal conversations with.

Cast
Patricia Charbonneau as Anna
Stephen McHattie as "Jellybean"
Boyd Gaines as Bill
Sam Freed as Alex
Steve Buscemi as "Switchblade"
Patti D'Arbanville as Cori
David Strathairn as Sam
Olek Krupa as Hennyk
John Seitz as "Pressure"
Pi Douglass as Nikki
George Gerdes as Fred
Ernest Abuba as Boss
Kevin Harris as Dude
Gy Mirano as The Waitress

Reception
The film was reviewed by the television show At the Movies, on May 28, 1988. Roger Ebert called the film a "directorial mess", citing laborious scenes which serve only to set up plot points, some of which are never followed up on. Gene Siskel felt the premise had potential, but it was ruined by the lead character's relentless stupidity, and that the film did not take the sexual elements far enough. The critics gave the film two thumbs down.

External links
Call Me at IMDb
Call Me at AllMovie
Passage 3:
Dance with a Stranger (band)
Dance with a Stranger is a Norwegian rock band from Kristiansund.

Biography
The band was founded in Bergen 1984 and had great success until they parted in 1994. Since then, they have had a few reunion concerts, as well as releasing compilation CDs. They were, among other things, voted Player of the Year at the Spellemannprisen 1991. The band took a longer break in the period 2002 to 2005. In 2007, they released the double compilation album Everyone Needs a Friend... The Very Best of Dance with a Stranger with three new songs and previously unreleased soundtracks from the 1980s, as well as highlights from the band's many releases.
In 2013, bassist Yngve Moe died in an accident. The band still completed their farewell tour in 2014, now joined by Per Mathisen on bass. The band has continued concert activities after this.

Discography
Dance with a Stranger (1987)
To (1989)
Atmosphere (1991)
Look What You've Done (1994)
Unplugged (1994)
The Best of Dance with a Stranger (1995)
Happy Sounds (1998)
Everyone Needs a Friend... The Very Best Of ( 2007)

Members
Present membersFrode Alnæs  – guitar, vocals
Øivind "Elg" Elgenes  – vocals
Per Mathisen  – bass (2014)
Bjørn Jenssen  – drumsFormer memberYngve Moe  – bass (1983–1994; died 2013)

Sources
Pop-lexicon (Norwegian)
About Dance with a Stranger at the music guide Groove.no (Norwegian)
Website
Passage 4:
Coney Island Baby (film)
Coney Island Baby is a 2003 comedy-drama in which film producer Amy Hobby made her directorial debut. Karl Geary wrote the film and Tanya Ryno was the film's producer. The music was composed by Ryan Shore. The film was shot in Sligo, Ireland, which is known locally as "Coney Island".
The film was screened at the Newport International Film Festival. Hobby won the Jury Award for "Best First Time Director".
The film made its premiere television broadcast on the Sundance Channel.

Plot
After spending time in New York City, Billy Hayes returns to his hometown. He wants to get back together with his ex-girlfriend and take her back to America in hopes of opening up a gas station. But everything isn't going Billy's way - the townspeople aren't happy to see him, and his ex-girlfriend is engaged and pregnant. Then, Billy runs into his old friends who are planning a scam.

Cast
Karl Geary - Billy Hayes
Laura Fraser - Bridget
Hugh O'Conor - Satchmo
Andy Nyman - Franko
Patrick Fitzgerald - The Duke
Tom Hickey - Mr. Hayes
Conor McDermottroe - Gerry
David McEvoy - Joe
Thor McVeigh - Magician
Sinead Dolan - Julia

Music
The film's original score was composed by Ryan Shore.

External links
Coney Island Baby (2006) at IMDb
MSN - Movies: Coney Island Baby
Passage 5:
Dance with a Stranger (disambiguation)
Dance with a Stranger may refer to one of the following:

Dance with a Stranger, a 1985 film
Jack and Jill (dance), a dance competition format
Dance with a Stranger (band), a Norwegian rock band
Passage 6:
Miley Naa Miley Hum
Miley Naa Miley Hum (transl. If we meet or don't) is a 2011 Indian film directed by Tanveer Khan, and marking the debut of Chirag Paswan, son of politician Ram Vilas Paswan. The film stars Kangana Ranaut, Neeru Bajwa and Sagarika Ghatge. The film released on 4 November 2011.The film went unnoticed and was considered a box office disaster. Subsequently, Paswan turned to politics and was elected to the Jamui seat in Bihar in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections.

Plot
Chirag comes from a wealthy background and assists his father, Siddharth Mehra, in managing and maintaining their land. Chirag's parents have been divorced due to incompatibility arising mainly due to his businesswoman mother, Shalini's hatred of tennis, a sport that Chirag wants to play professionally.
Shalini and Siddharth would like to see Chirag married and accordingly Shalini picks London-based Kamiah, while Siddharth picks Bhatinda-based Manjeet Ahluwalia. Chirag, who sneaks off to practice tennis at night, is asked to make a choice but informs them that he is in love with a model named Anishka (Kangana Ranaut). The displeased couple decide to confront and put pressure on a struggling and unknowing klutz-like Anishka to leave their son alone but they fail.
In the end, Chirag's parents realize their mistake and together attend Chirag's tennis match and give blessings to Chirag and Anishka.

Critical reception
Taran Adarsh of gave the film 2.5 stars and claimed that Miley Naa Miley Hum is an absorbing fare with decent merits.Komal Nahta of Koimoi.com gave the film 0.5 stars out of 5 saying that the film lacks merits to work at the box office.

Cast
Chirag Paswan as Chirag Mehra
Kangana Ranaut as Anishka Srivastava
Kabir Bedi as Siddharth Mehra
Poonam Dhillon as Shalini Mehra
Sagarika Ghatge as Kamiah
Neeru Bajwa as Manjeet
Dalip Tahil
Suresh Menon
Tanya Abrol
Kunal Kumar
Shweta Tiwari (Special Appearance in a song)

Soundtrack
Passage 7:
Sex with a Stranger
Sex with a Stranger is a 1986 pornographic horror film directed by Chris Monte and written by Cash Markman and Chad Randolph.

Plot
A group of seven seemingly unconnected people each receive a letter containing half of a thousand dollar bill, an invitation to a mansion, and the promise of money and prizes if they show up. Arriving at the house, the recipients of the envelopes find a note, which informs them that rooms have been prepared for them, and that their host (known only as "J.M.") will arrive soon to explain everything to them. The guests conclude that they have been called together due to a tontine made by relatives, who all died in a hotel fire during their last annual meeting.
Trevor and Priscilla have sex in a bedroom, and Joy and Inspector #6 (who was in the midst of donning women's undergarments when Joy walked in on him) do the same elsewhere. Afterward, the inspector is killed when he falls or is shoved down a flight of stairs, and his body disappears shortly after the others find it. Wanting to know who summoned them, and in need of the money they have been promised, the remaining guests decide to stay despite the risk of being murdered.
Slick and Sugar go off to have sex, and Priscilla is found dead, having been electrocuted while using a sabotaged vibrator. Thinking Priscilla's automatic camera could offer a clue as to what happened to her, Slick and Sugar try to develop the film in it, while Trevor mourns Priscilla's death by downing a glass of wine, which has been spiked with rodenticide. Joy coerces Doctor Rivameter into having sex on the bed containing Priscilla and Trevor's bodies, but they are interrupted mid-coitus by screams coming from another room.
Rivameter discovers that Sugar has been drowned in a sink, and as she and Joy conclude that the killer must be Slick, he stumbles into the room with a spike through his head, and a knife in his back. Slick drops dead before he can reveal his killer, but then he instantly recovers, and it is revealed that he and all the other victims were not actually dead. The inspector had merely been knocked out by an accidental fall down the stairs, and the others had faked their deaths to stop themselves from being targeted by the nonexistent killer.
Jacob Myers, the man who called everyone to the mansion, enters the room, and introduces himself as the attorney handling the tontine case. Myers states that all that is left of the tontine is the thousand dollar bills he sent to the inheritors to get them there, the rest of the money having been lost on a failed investment in liquid prophylactics. Joy follows Myers to his bedroom, and the others decide to pass the time until daylight by having an orgy.

Cast
Ebony Ayes as Sugar, a high class prostitute.
Greg Derek as Trevor Fairbanks, an actor.
Nina Hartley as Priscilla Vogue, a fashion model.
Sheena Horne as Joy, a ditz with a fetish for anonymous sex.
Scott Irish as Inspector #6, a clothing inspector.
Keisha as Rivameter, a Doctor of Philosophy.
Randy West as Sylvester "Slick" Rhodes, a shyster.

Reception
Adam Film World gave the film a three out of five, marking it as "Hot". AVN stated that while it was "a technically-sound production that features a capable cast" it was brought down by a ridiculous and overwrought plot, and mostly lukewarm sex.A one and a half was awarded by Popcorn for Breakfast, which called Sex with a Stranger "painfully derivative" and "a poster child for bad porn" before concluding "As a curiosity, it may have some archival value in that it's about as tasteless as mainstream porn gets in places". A two out of five was given by The Bloody Pit of Horror, which wrote "It's cheap (and shot-on-video, naturally), silly, has a few dumb laughs and there's lots of sex, so mission accomplished, I guess".
Passage 8:
The Wonderful World of Captain Kuhio
The Wonderful World of Captain Kuhio (クヒオ大佐, Kuhio Taisa, lit. "Captain Kuhio") is a 2009 Japanese comedy-crime film, directed by Daihachi Yoshida, based on Kazumasa Yoshida's 2006 biographical novel, Kekkon Sagishi Kuhio Taisa (lit. "Marriage swindler Captain Kuhio"), that focuses on a real-life marriage swindler, who conned over 100 million yen (US$1.2 million) from a number of women between the 1970s and the 1990s.The film was released in Japan on 10 October 2009.

Cast
Masato Sakai - Captain Kuhio
Yasuko Matsuyuki - Shinobu Nagano
Hikari Mitsushima - Haru Yasuoka
Yuko Nakamura - Michiko Sudo
Hirofumi Arai - Tatsuya Nagano
Kazuya Kojima - Koichi Takahashi
Sakura Ando - Rika Kinoshita
Masaaki Uchino - Chief Fujiwara
Kanji Furutachi - Shigeru Kuroda
Reila Aphrodite
Sei Ando

Awards
At the 31st Yokohama Film Festival
Best Actor – Masato Sakai
Best Supporting Actress – Sakura Ando
Passage 9:
Dance with Death (film)
Dance with Death is an American film starring Barbara Alyn Woods and Maxwell Caulfield. It is a reworking of Stripped to Kill, a previous film from 1987 produced by Roger Corman's Concorde Pictures studio. It is notable for featuring an early acting role for Lisa Kudrow.

Plot
Kelly is a reporter for a Los Angeles newspaper who finds out that strippers at a club called Bottoms Up are getting brutally murdered. With the prodding of her Hopper, her editor and ex-boyfriend, she goes undercover by winning an amateur night contest to get a job at the club. Once embedded, Kelly gets to know the other employees, particularly the snide owner Art, the hapless DJ Dermot, and mercurial dancer Jodie. She also discovers a regular patron, Shaughnessy, is an undercover detective investigating the murders. He soon discovers her true identity as a reporter, and they team up to investigate. As she continues working at the club, she is made aware of several suspects in the murders: Henry, a shy regular who is fixated on lingerie, Art, who has a connection to one of the dead women, and even Hopper, whom she learns covered a string of similar stripper murders in Atlanta and was interrogated by police. As they share their information, Kelly and Shaughnessy become infatuated with each other.
After one night spent together, Kelly looks in on Jodie, who had not reported to work the previous evening, and discovers her murdered. Shaughnessy follows Henry to a park he regularly visits, and after confronting him, causes him to be shot dead by backup police. That night at the club, after a performance, Kelly hears noises from Art's office, and discovers him dead; Hopper seizes her, insisting he killed Art by accident, in a dispute over blackmail involving him and another of the club dancers. She escapes him, and Shaughnessy intercepts her and shoots Hopper dead. She is relieved at first, but as he holds her, she notices the stone from his ring is missing, and remembers that she found a stone in Jodie's hand; she realizes Shaughnessy is the murderer. She tries to escape him, but is followed by him into a next door warehouse. After repeated attempts to kill him which he recovers from, she finally sets a trap with gasoline and sets him on fire.
Sometime later at the newspaper office, Kelly begins typing her story on the murders, called "Dance with Death."

Cast
Maxwell Caulfield as Shaughnessy
Barbara Alyn Woods as Kelly
Martin Mull as Art
Catya Sassoon as Jodie
Tracey Burch as Whitney
Jill Pierce as Lola
Alretha Baker as Sunny
Michael McDonald as Henry
Drew Snyder  as Hopper
Lisa Kudrow as Millie
Maria Ford as Stripper (uncredited)

Production
Katt Shea wrote the original story for the 1987 with her husband. She later recalled:

 I just didn't get paid for it. It was weird. Basically my script from Stripped to Kill was re-worked and re-used by Roger Corman and a very bad movie was the result of that. That’s my opinion and I just don’t think that film was well done.  I don’t like that Roger Corman does that. I love Roger, but I just didn’t like that.
Passage 10:
Lisa (1990 film)
Lisa is a 1990 American thriller film directed by Gary Sherman and starring Staci Keanan, D. W. Moffett, Cheryl Ladd and Jeffrey Tambor. Its plot follows a teenage girl's infatuation with a stranger that, unknown to her, is a serial killer-stalker.

Plot
Fourteen-year-old Lisa Holland lives with her mother Katherine, a successful florist, in Venice Beach, California. Lisa is beginning to show a keen interest in boys but is not allowed to date due to her mother’s strict rule about not dating until she is 16. It is revealed that Katherine had Lisa when she was 14 years old. Abandoned by Lisa's father, Katherine was forced to leave home after her parents demanded that she put Lisa up for adoption. These facts have made Katherine very wary about Lisa dating, feeling she would end up like her mother. Lisa’s desire to have a boyfriend is furthered by her best friend Wendy Marks, whose less-strict mother and father have allowed her to start dating.
Meanwhile, there is a serial killer running loose in Venice Beach, nicknamed the Candlelight Killer, so called because he rapes his victims by candlelight before killing them. The Candlelight Killer is a suave, good-looking, and successful restaurateur named Richard, who looks more like a sexy model than a serial killer. Richard stalks good-looking women once he finds out where they live. Uniquely, Richard calls his victims over the telephone leaving messages on their answering machines saying he is in their house and is going to kill them. As the women are listening to his message, Richard grabs them from behind and then begins his vicious attacks.
One night, Lisa is coming home from the convenience store, and accidentally runs into Richard, leaving the house of another victim. Lisa is mesmerized by his good looks and follows him to his car once he leaves, copying down his license plate number. Through the DMV she is able to get his address and telephone number. Lisa then begins to call up Richard on the phone and engages him in seductive conversation. Richard is intrigued by their conversations, yet is more interested in finding out who she is, mainly because he is the one now being stalked.
Lisa and Wendy follow Richard, finding out where he lives and works. Lisa even gets into Richard's car alone at one point only to have to hide in the back seat when he unexpectedly shows up. All this goes on unknown to Katherine, and with each succeeding conversation, in which Lisa reveals more about herself, Richard pushes Lisa towards meeting him for a date. Still at a standoff with her mother when it comes to dating, Wendy suggests that Lisa set up Katherine with Richard, implying that maybe if her mother "gets some", she will ease up and allow Lisa to date.
As Easter weekend approaches, Lisa plans to go away with Wendy and her family to Big Bear, California. Katherine and Lisa decide to have a girls' night out dinner before she leaves, and Lisa makes reservations at Richard's restaurant. Lisa calls Richard informing him that she will be at the restaurant that night. Katherine goes to the bathroom ordering Lisa to pay the bill with her credit card. Richard gets a love note from Lisa with the bill, which reveals Katherine's credit card information, which he uses to track her down. When Lisa and Katherine arrive home, the two start bickering over Lisa's dating. Lisa immediately shouts back at Katherine and her stupid rules and that maybe if she got it once in a while, she wouldn't be such a bitch to her mother's dismay. Katherine orders Lisa to go to her room and grounds her, while taking her phone from her room.
Meanwhile, Richard begins to stalk the unsuspecting Katherine. While in Big Bear, Lisa decides to give Richard a call. He reveals to her that he knows her name is Katherine, and that he knows where she lives. On the night Lisa is to return from Big Bear, Katherine enters the apartment and hears a message from Richard. Meanwhile, Lisa returns home and enters the apartment. Running into her room, she is attacked by Richard who has knocked her mother unconscious. Richard brings Lisa into Katherine's bedroom and plans to assault her; Lisa sees the candles and realizes he is the Candlelight Killer. However, Katherine regains consciousness and knocks out Richard from behind and sends him through a window to his death. Relieved to be alive, mother and daughter collapse into each other's arms.

Cast
Cheryl Ladd as Katherine Holland
D. W. Moffett as Richard / The Candlelight Killer
Staci Keanan as Lisa Holland
Tanya Fenmore as Wendy Marks
Jeffrey Tambor as Mr. Marks, Wendy's Father
Julie Cobb as Mrs. Marks, Wendy's Mother
Edan Gross as Ralph Marks, Wendy's Brother

Release
Lisa released to theaters on April 20, 1990 through United Artists. It achieved a domestic gross of $4,347,648, with an opening night of $1,119,895.

Home media
Lisa received a home video release in December 1990. The movie received a DVD release as part of MGM MOD Wave 16 and was released on June 28, 2012. A Blu-ray edition, featuring a commentary track from director Gary Sherman and an interview with D. W. Moffett supervised by Scorpion Releasing, was released in December 2015 by Kino Lorber.

Reception
Critical reception for the film was negative; praise tended to center upon Ladd's performance while criticism centered around the script and tropes. Roger Ebert gave the film 1 1/2 stars, stating that it was "a bludgeon movie with little respect for the audience's intelligence, and simply pounds us over the head with violence whenever there threatens to be a lull." A reviewer for The Ottawa Citizen was also critical, praising Ladd's performance while also criticizing the film as "hysterical and transparent in its attempt to scare audience members into hosing down their hormones."