Passage 1:
Dhuen Ki Lakeer
Dhuen Ki Lakeer is a 1974 Bollywood drama film directed by Kishore Sahu. The film stars Ramesh Arora and Parveen Babi.

Cast
Ramesh Arora
Parveen Babi
Urmila Bhatt
Preeti Ganguli

Songs
"Daur Wo Aa Gaya, Dil Ke Armaa Bike, Hosle Bik Gaye" - Mohammed Rafi
"Teree Jhil See Geharee Aankho Me" - Vani Jairam, Nitin Mukesh
"Ek Shama Jale Kahan, Parvano Ki Bhid Yaha" - Ajit Singh, Krishna]]
"Gauri Ke Maang Mein Sindoor, Kahi Dur Baje Shanai" - Ghanshyamji, Shamji
"Ik Abla Ik Maa Bik Gayi Daur Wo Aa Gaya ( Part II )" - Mohammed Rafi

External links
Dhuen Ki Lakeer at IMDb
Passage 2:
Edward Yates
Edward J. Yates (September 16, 1918 – June 2, 2006) was an American television director who was the director of the ABC television program American Bandstand from 1952 until 1969.

Biography
Yates became a still photographer after graduating from high school in 1936. After serving in World War II, he became employed by Philadelphia's WFIL-TV as a boom microphone operator. He was later promoted to cameraman (important as most programming was done live and local during the early years of television) and earned a bachelor's degree in communications in 1950 from the University of Pennsylvania.
In October 1952, Yates volunteered to direct Bandstand, a new concept featuring local teens dancing to the latest hits patterned after the "950 Club" on WPEN-AM. The show debuted with Bob Horn as host and took off after Dick Clark, already a radio veteran at age 26, took over in 1956.
It was broadcast live in its early years, even after it became part of the ABC network's weekday afternoon lineup in 1957 as American Bandstand. Yates pulled records, directed the cameras, queued the commercials and communicated with Clark via a private line telephone located on his podium.
In 1964, Clark moved the show to Los Angeles, taking Yates with him.
Yates retired from American Bandstand in 1969, and moved his family to the Philadelphia suburb of West Chester.
He died in 2006 at a nursing home where he had been for the last two months of his life.

External links
Edward Yates at IMDb
Passage 3:
Bomma Borusa
Bomma Borusa (transl. Heads or Tails?) is a 1971 Indian Telugu-language comedy film directed by K. Balachander.
It is a remake of the Tamil film Poova Thalaiya, directed by K. Balachander himself. The film stars Rama Krishna, Chandra Mohan, S. Varalakshmi, Chalam, Vennira Aadai Nirmala, Allu Ramalingaiah, Mukkamala, Raja Babu and Ramaprabha.
It was produced by Avichi Meiyappa Chettiar and distributed by AVM Productions. The film music was composed by R. Goverdhanam and lyrics were written by Kosaraju Raghavaiah.

Plot
It is an old classical family drama. Sundaram (Ramakrishna) is a rich businessman and he has an younger brother Sekhar (Chandra Mohan), a college going guy who loves his brother so much. Sundaram's mother-in-law Parvatham (S. Varalakshmi) who cares for his assets, shows her dominating character on Sekhar and Sundaram. She bets with Sekhar that she would separate him from his brother and puts some conditions that he should not tell his brother about the bet to prove his strength. Parvatham's second son-in-law (Chalam) identifies that his mother-in-law has moved to Sundaram's house. Soon the second son-in-law comes to the house and places a bet with Parvatham that she only should reveal that he is the son-in-law of her. Since then, both of them start proving their capacity to win the bet. The film revolves around who wins the bet and how it brings about a change in Parvathamma's beliefs.

Cast
Soundtrack
"Vesukunta Chempalu Vesukunta" (male)
"Vesukunta Chempalu Vesukunta" (female)
"Bomma Borusa Pandem Veyyi Needo Naado Paicheyi"
"Vallu Jhillan Tunnadi"
"Sarile Pove Vagaladi"Soundtrack for this Telugu film was composed by R. Goverdhanam and lyrics were written by Kosaraju Raghavaiah.
Passage 4:
Abhishek Saxena
Abhishek Saxena is an Indian Bollywood and Punjabi film director who directed the movie Phullu. The Phullu movie was released in theaters on 16 June 2017, in which film Sharib Hashmi is the lead role. Apart from these, he has also directed Patiala Dreamz, this is a Punjabi film. This film was screened in cinemas in 2014.

Life and background
Abhishek Saxena was born on 19 September 1988 in the capital of India, Delhi, whose father's name is Mukesh Kumar Saxena. Abhishek Saxena married Ambica Sharma Saxena on 18 December 2014. His mother's name is Gurpreet Kaur Saxena.
Saxena started his career with a Punjabi film Patiala Dreamz, after which he has also directed a Hindi film Phullu, which has appeared in Indian cinemas on 16 June 2017.

Career
Abhishek Saxena made his film debut in 2011 as an assistant director on Doordarshan with Ashok Gaikwad. He made his first directed film Patiala Dreamz, this is a Punjabi movie.After this, he has also directed a Hindi film Phullu in 2017, which has been screened in cinemas on 16 June 2017. Saxena is now making his upcoming movie "India Gate".
In 2018 Abhishek Saxena has come up with topic of body-shaming in his upcoming movie Saroj ka Rishta.
 Where Sanah Kapoor will play the role of Saroj and actors Randeep Rai and Gaurav Pandey will play the two men in Saroj's life.Yeh Un Dinon ki Baat Hai lead Randeep Rai will make his Bollywood debut. Talking about the film, director Abhishek Saxena told Mumbai Mirror, "As a fat person, I have noticed that body-shaming doesn’t happen only with those who are on the heavier side, but also with thin people. The idea germinated from there."
Career as an Assistant DirectorApart from this, he has played the role of assistant director in many films and serials in the beginning of his career, in which he has a television serial in 2011, Doordarshan, as well as in 2011, he also assisted in a serial of Star Plus.
In addition to these serials, he played the role of assistant director in the movie "Girgit" which was made in Telugu language.

Filmography
As Director
Passage 5:
Ben Palmer
Ben Palmer (born 1976) is a British film and television director.
His television credits include the Channel 4 sketch show Bo' Selecta! (2002–2006), the second and third series of the E4 sitcom The Inbetweeners (2009–2010) and the Sky Atlantic comedy-drama Breeders (2020). Palmer has also directed films such as the Inbetweeners spin-off, The Inbetweeners Movie (2011) and the romantic comedy Man Up (2015).

Biography
Palmer was born and raised in Penny Bridge, Barrow-in-Furness. He attended Chetwynde School.His first directing job was the Channel 4 sketch show Bo' Selecta!, which he co-developed with its main star, Leigh Francis. Palmer directed the second and third series of the E4 sitcom The Inbetweeners in 2009 and 2010, respectively.

Filmography
Bo' Selecta! (2002–06)
Comedy Lab (2004–2010)
Bo! in the USA (2006)
The Inbetweeners (2009–2010)
The Inbetweeners Movie (2011)
Comedy Showcase (2012)
Milton Jones's House of Rooms (2012)
Them from That Thing (2012)
Bad Sugar (2012)
Chickens (2013)
London Irish (2013)
Man Up (2015)
SunTrap (2015)
BBC Comedy Feeds (2016)
Nigel Farage Gets His Life Back (2016)
Back (2017)
Comedy Playhouse (2017)
Urban Myths (2017–19)
Click & Collect (2018)
Semi-Detached (2019)
Breeders (2020)
Passage 6:
Richard Young (cinematographer)
Richard Young (October 17, 1939 – December 15, 2010) was a cinematographer and film director who was born in Penfield, New York, United States.

Life and work
As a cinematographer, he filmed several dozen films for Eastman Kodak. He codirected the 1996 film I'm Still Here: The Truth About Schizophrenia with Robert Bilheimer. He was the director of the 1998 film Echoes from the Ancients. He codirected and coproduced the 1999 film A Warrior in Two Worlds: The Life of Ely Parker with Ann Spurling. He performed the cinematography for the 2003 documentary film A Closer Walk.Young died on December 15, 2010. The film Not My Life, for which he had served as cinematographer and co-director, was subsequently dedicated to him. Bilheimer, who was the screenwriter, producer, and director of Not My Life, said that Young believed in the film far more than he himself did. There was a tribute to Young shown before its screening at the 360 | 365 George Eastman House Film Festival. A film reviewer at Post Magazine called Young "a legendary documentary cinematographer."
Passage 7:
K. Balachander
Kailasam Balachander (9 July 1930 – 23 December 2014) was an Indian filmmaker and playwright who worked mainly in the Tamil cinema. He was well known for his distinct film-making style, and the Indian film industry knew him as a master of unconventional themes and hard-hitting contemporary subject matter. Balachander's films are well known for their portrayal of women as bold personalities and central characters. Popularly referred to as Iyakkunar Sigaram (lit. "Director Paramount"), his films are usually centred on unusual or complicated interpersonal relationships and social themes. He started his film career in 1964 as a screenwriter and graduated to a director with Neerkumizhi (1965).
In a career that spanned 50 years, he had contributed to nearly 100 feature films either as a screenwriter or director, thus becoming one of the most prolific filmmakers in the country. Known among his colleagues as a tough task master, he was credited with having nurtured numerous actors, notably Nagesh, Sujatha, Kamal Haasan, Rajinikanth, Chiranjeevi, Jaya Prada, Sridevi, Jayasudha, Saritha, Renuka, Nassar, Prakash Raj, Ramesh Aravind and Vivek.
In his film career, Balachander had won nine National Film Awards and 13 Filmfare Awards. He was honored with the Padma Shri (1987), India's fourth highest civilian award, and the Dadasaheb Phalke Award, India's highest award in cinema.
He also made films under his production house, Kavithalaya Productions. Apart from Tamil, he made films in other languages such as Telugu, Kannada and Hindi. Towards the tail end of his career, he directed a few TV serials and made a few film appearances as well.

Early life and background
K. Balachander was born in Tamil Brahmin family in 1930  at Nannilam in the Tanjore district (now Tiruvarur district), India. Balachander stated that, "From my eighth year I've been seeing cinema" and recalls that his earliest interest towards cinema grew after watching films of M. K. Thyagaraja Bhagavathar, then the Superstar of Tamil cinema. At the age of twelve he was drawn to theatre and drama, which eventually helped him develop an interest in acting, writing and directing amateur plays. His obsession towards theatre continued even while doing his graduation (in Zoology) at the Annamalai University, as he regularly took part in stage plays. After completing his graduation in 1949, he started his career as a school teacher in Muthupet, Tiruvarur district. In 1950, he moved to Madras (now Chennai) and joined the Accountant General's office as an apprentice clerk, and during this time he joined "United Amateur Artistes", an amateur drama company. Soon he formed his own troupe and it was during this time he came to prominence as an amateur playwright with Major Chandrakanth, written in English. As the scope of English was highly limited in Madras, he re-wrote the play in Tamil, which ultimately became a "sensation" among the people. Balachander's acting troupe consisted of people from the Tamil film industry such as Major Sundarrajan, Nagesh, Srikanth and Sowcar Janaki. Sunderrajan appeared in over 900 films, Nagesh in over 1,000, Sreekanth in more than 200 films, and Sowkar Janaki appeared in more than 350 films. Other plays written by Balachander include Server Sundaram (Waiter Sundaram), Neerkumizhi (Water Bubble), Mezhuguvarthi (Candle), Naanal (Tall Grass) and Navagraham (Nine Planets). All these produced and directed by him, were received well by the critics.

Career
Entry into films: 1960s
Balachander while working in the Accountant General's office, was offered to write the dialogues for the film Dheiva Thaai (1964 ) by its lead actor M. G. Ramachandran. Balachander was initially reluctant, as he was more theatre-oriented, but on the insistence of his friends he decided to work on the film. By this time he was promoted as a superintendent in his office. Avichi Meiyappa Chettiar acquired the rights of his play Server Sundaram, and decided to make a film based on it. The film dealt with the story of a waiting staff at a restaurant had Nagesh playing the lead. The film was directed by the renowned duo directors, Krishnan–Panju. It won a lot of accolades including the Certificate of Merit for the third Best Feature Film in Tamil and Filmfare Award for Best Tamil Film. During this time another play written and directed by him - Major Chandrakanth was adapted into a film in Hindi as Oonche Log. The film won a National Film Award. Balachander then made his directional debut through Neerkumizhi (1965) which in turn was based on his own play. The film's cast consisted of actors who were a part of Balachander's regular troupe. His following efforts included Naanal, Major Chandrakanth and Ethir Neechal, all based on his own plays. Major Chandrakanth was already filmed in Hindi as Oonche Log the previous year. The Tamil version Major Chandrakanth (1966 film) had Jayalalithaa playing the lead heroine role. In 1967 he made Bama Vijayam, a full-length comedy family drama film. Featuring an ensemble cast, the film was highly successful and remade in Telugu by Balachander himself. The success of both the versions prompted a Hindi remake titled Teen Bahuraniyan, produced by Gemini pictures. In 1969, Balachander made Iru Kodugal, a family drama starring Gemini Ganesan, won the National Film Award for Best Feature Film in Tamil.

1970s
During the 1970s, Balachander turned indie, making realist movies revolving around family and social issues. In 1971 he made four films.In 1973, he made Arangetram, which dealt with poverty and prostitution. The film centred on the eldest daughter of a conservative Brahmin household who becomes a prostitute to settle her siblings and support her family. It was ahead of its time in Tamil cinema mainly because of the controversial theme. The film also had Kamal Haasan playing his first major role as an adult actor. The actor would go on to act in 35 films under Balachander. He made his directorial debut in Hindi films with the film Aaina starring Mumtaz and Rajesh Khanna in 1977, which was remake of Arangetram.The same year, he made Sollathaan Ninaikkiren, based on a novel by Manian. The following year he made Naan Avanillai. He made the film on the insistence of Gemini Ganesan, who also produced and enacted the lead role. It is based on the Marathi play To Mee Navhech, revolved around a man who deceives and marries five women performing nine roles. The film met with commercial failure. However, Gemini Ganesan was adjudged the Best Tamil Actor at the following year's Filmfare Awards ceremony. Following that, Balachander's made Aval Oru Thodar Kathai (1974), his second female-centric film after Arangetram that dealt with the story of a working woman who hails from a middle-class family. Inspired by the 1960 Bengali film Meghe Dhaka Tara, it explored the emotions of a young woman who happens to be the sole earner for her family. He decided to cast an actress who worked as a child actress till then, as his film heroine with the film Mondru Moodichu and gave break to Sridevi. The film Aboorva Raagangal was an original story about an inter-generational romance involving two families. It marked the acting debut of Rajinikanth, who would go on to establish himself as a leading actor. It won critical acclaim in spite of its controversial theme; it won three National Film Awards including the award for the "Best Feature Film in Tamil".During this period he made films mostly with Kamal Haasan as the lead actor. In 1976, he made three films: Manmadha Leelai, Anthuleni Katha and Moondru Mudichu. Manmadha Leelai explores the life of a womaniser, played by Kamal Haasan, who gets himself involved in affairs with women. Often considered ahead of its time, it achieved cult status and is considered a "trendsetter" in Tamil cinema. Anthuleni Katha, a Telugu remake of Aval Oru Thodar Kathai had Jaya Prada in her first starring role. received equal acclaim in Andhra Pradesh as in the neighbouring state of Tamil Nadu. Avargal (1977) follows the life of a divorcée as she traverses relationships in reverse, from divorce, to marriage, to falling in love. Varumayin Niram Sigappu (1980) was a drama that charts the travails and conflict of being unemployed in a bombastic and harsh city. 47 Natkal (1981) traces the adversities of a newlywed Indian woman living with an scurrilous, expatriate husband in a Parisian suburb. The film was a launchpad for its lead actor Chiranjeevi.

Bollywood success and Tamil film career 1981-99
Balachander re-entered the Hindi film industry after Aaina through Ek Duuje Ke Liye in 1981. He gave Rati Agnihotri her debut Hindi film with Ek Duje Ke Liye. The project was a remake of his own Telugu film Maro Charitra had Kamal Haasan repeating his role as a lead actor. The film marked the Bollywood debut of various artists including Kamal Haasan, Madhavi and S. P. Balasubrahmanyam. Like the original, Ek Duuje Ke Liye emerged as a major box-office success and earned critical acclaim. Balachander received the Filmfare Award for Best Screenplay, apart from two other nominations – for Best Director and Best Story. The song "Tere Meere Beach Mein" became so popular, eventually winning a Filmfare Award for Anand Bakshi and a National Film Award for Balasubrahmanyam.He made Sindhu Bhairavi (1985), which is about the intellectual collision and subsequent romance between a lofty Carnatic musician and his ardent critic. He has worked with a variety of music directors like V.Kumar, M.S.Viswanathan, Ilaiyaraja, Maragathamani, V. S. Narasimhan and A.R.Rahman. The actors who were regular in his films in the period 1963 to 1990 were Gemini Ganeshan, Sowcar Janaki, Nagesh, Jayanthi, Sujatha, Rajnikanth and Kamal Haasan.

Later years
In 1998, he planned a film titled Thillana Thillana featuring Prashanth, Karthik, Meena and Simran , but the venture failed to develop. His later films include Parthale Paravasam (2001) and Poi (2006).

Television career
The period starting from the late 1980s till the late 1990s saw Balachander venturing into Television and making a number of Television series including Kai Alavu Manasu, Rail Sneham, Ramany vs Ramany(a.k.a. Ramani vs Ramani), Oru Koodai Paasam, Kadhal Pagadai, Premi, Jannal, Kasalavu Nesam, and Anni. Like his earlier films, most of his serials focussed on women, and portrayed them as strong personalities. Kasalvu Nesam was one of his comedy hits, starring Venu Aravind. In 2003, he made Sahana, that touted to be the sequel of his 1985 film Sindhu Bairavi. On venturing into Television, he noted "This medium helps to reach out to the public. That's why I am into making serials". In 2009, Balachander returned to theatre after a 40-year hiatus through the play Pournami, which had Renuka playing the lead role.

Personal life
In 1956, Balachander married Rajam while he was working at the Accountant General's Office. The couple had two sons named Kailasam and Prasanna and a daughter Pushpa Kandaswamy, who is the chairwoman of their production house Kavithalaya Productions. Kailasam was an entrepreneur while Prasanna, a Chartered Accountant, is the managing director and CEO of a leading investment bank in India. Balachander's elder son, Bala Kailasam, died on 15 August 2014 after contracting pneumonia, at the age of 54. He was the head of the television production company Minbinbangal, and delivered memorable series in Tamil includes, Balachandarin Chinnathirai, Kaialavu Manasu, Rail Sneham, and Marma Desam.

Death
Following a neurosurgery in November 2014, Balachander was admitted to Kauvery Hospital in Chennai on 15 December. Reports suggested that he was suffering from fever and from a urinary tract infection, but was recovering well. However, on 23 December 2014 he died due to complications from the urinary infection and other age-related ailments.  He was cremated with full state honours the next day.

Style, critique and public perception
Balachander is revered as one of the best directors India has ever produced. His ideas were original and his subjects were complex ideas expressed via art. He is also known for introducing new faces to the film industry. He has introduced over 100 actors in Tamil, Telugu and Kannada languages. Balachander had long associations with some senior artists in the South Indian film industry like Gemini Ganesan, Sowcar Janaki, Nagesh and Muthuraman. Even though he was not the one to discover them, he played a prominent role in shaping their careers.
Kamal Haasan and Rajinikanth, two leading film actors in Tamil cinema, are often referred to as products of Balachander who has paired with each of them or worked with them as a trio in several films during the 1970s. Rajinikanth was chosen by Balachander to play a key supporting character in Apoorva Raagangal (1975) after noting that "there was something special about him". Sridevi, Srividhya, Jayapradha, Jayasudha, Jayachithra, Sujatha, Saritha were notable heroines that were introduced by Balachander. Nassar, Delhi Ganesh, Charlie, Madan Bob were some of the notable supporting actors introduced by him. After working in a few Kannada films, Prakash Raj was relaunched as an actor in Tamil cinema through his debut Duet (1995) and had also performed in some of Balachander's soap opera productions in the 1990s. Through Manathil Uruthi Vendum, Balachander launched Vivek as an actor, who initially worked with him as his assistant writer, and later went on to become a leading comedy actor. He also launched A.R. Rahman in the film Roja which was his production.
When the old era was dominated by commercial action films, Balachander directed socially themed films with women as protagonists usually centred on unusual or complicated interpersonal relationships and social themes. He portrayed women as headstrong, intelligent and independent people. Balachander revealed that many of his messages from his films, he has drawn inspiration from poet Subramaniya Bharathi whom he had admired since his childhood. Screenwriter Gopu (of Gopu-Babu) said that he used to begin his script from the ending and then construct the plot.

Filmography
Awards and nomination
Documentary
A documentary is getting ready about him. Ravisubramaniyan is selected by Kavidalaya for making documentary, to be released on 9 July 2020, the 90th birthday of the veteran Indian filmmaker.

Notes
Bibliography
External links
K. Balachander at IMDb
Passage 8:
Hassan Zee
Hassan "Doctor" Zee is a Pakistani-American film director who was born in Chakwal, Pakistan.

Early life
Doctor Zee grew up in Chakwal, a small village in Punjab, Pakistan. as one of seven brothers and sisters  His father was in the military and this fact required the family to move often to different cities. As a child Zee was forbidden from watching cinema because his father believed movies were a bad influence on children.
At age 13, Doctor Zee got his start in the world of entertainment at Radio Pakistan where he wrote and produced radio dramas and musical programs.  It was then that he realized his passion for storytelling At the age of 26, Doctor Zee earned his medical doctorate degree and did his residency in a burn unit at the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences. He cared for women who were victims of  "Bride Burning," the archaic practice used as a form of punishment against women who fail to provide sufficient dowry to their in-laws after marriage or fail to provide offspring.  He also witnessed how his country’s transgender and intersex people, called “hijras”, were banned from having jobs and forced to beg to survive. These experiences inspired Doctor Zee to tackle the issues of women’s empowerment and gender inequality in his films.In 1999, he came to San Francisco to pursue his dream of filmmaking and made San Francisco his home

Education
He received his early education from Jinnah Public School, Chakwal. He got his medical doctor degree at Rawalpindi Medical College, Pakistan.

Film career
Doctor Zee's first film titled Night of Henna was released in 2005. The theme of the film dealt with "the conflict between Old World immigrant customs and modern Western ways..." Night of Henna focused on the problems of Pakistani expatriates who found it hard to adjust in American culture. Many often landed themselves in trouble when it came to marrying off their children.
His second film Bicycle Bride came out in 2010, which was about "the clash between the bonds of family and the weight of tradition." His third film House of Temptation that came out in 2014 was about a family which struggles against the temptations of the Devil. His fourth film “Good Morning Pakistan”, concerned a young American’s journey back to Pakistan where he confronts the contradictory nature of a beautiful and ancient culture that's marred by economic, educational and gender inequality His upcoming fifth film, "Ghost in San Francisco" is a supernatural thriller starring Felissa Rose, Dave Sheridan, and Kyle Lowder where a soldier comes home from Afghanistan to discover that his wife is having an affair with his best friend. While battling with his inner ghosts and demons, he meets a mysterious woman in San Francisco who promises him a ritual for his cure.
Passage 9:
Rumbi Katedza
Rumbi Katedza is a Zimbabwean Film Producer and Director who was born on 17 January 1974.

Early life and education
She did her Primary and Secondary Education in Harare, Zimbabwe. Katedza graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in English from McGill University, Canada in 1995. In 2008 Katedza received the Chevening Scholarship that enabled her to further her studies in film. She also holds a MA in Filmmaking from Goldsmiths College, London University.

Work and filmography
Katedza has experience in Film and TV Production, Directing, Writing as well as Producing and presenting Radio shows. From 1994 to 2000, She produced and presented radio shows on Women's issues, Arts and Culture, Hip Hop and Acid Jazz for the CKUT (Montreal) and ZBC Radio 3 (Zimbabwe). From 2004 - 2006, she served as the Festival Director of the Zimbabwe International Film Festival. Whilst there, she produced the Postcards from Zimbabwe Series. In 2008, Katedza founded Mai Jai Films and has produced numerous films and television productions under the banner namely

Tariro (2008);
Big House, Small House (2009);
The Axe and the Tree (2011);
The Team (2011)
Playing Warriors (2012)Her early works include:

Danai (2002);
Postcards from Zimbabwe (2006);
Trapped (2006 – Rumbi Katedza, Marcus Korhonen);
Asylum (2007);
Insecurity Guard (2007)Rumbi Katedza is a part-time lecturer at the University of Zimbabwe, in the department of Theatre Arts. She is a judge and monitor at the National Arts Merit Awards, responsible for monitoring new film and TV productions throughout the year on behalf of the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe. She has also lobbied Zimbabwean government to actively support the film industry.
Passage 10:
Kishore Sahu
Kishore Sahu (22 November 1915 – 22 August 1980) was an Indian actor, film director, screenwriter, and producer. He appeared in 22 films between 1937 and 1980, and he directed 20 films between 1942 and 1974.
His directorial venture Kuwara Baap was one of the winners for the BFJA - Best Indian Films Award for best film for 1943. His film Raja has been called "a milestone of art and skill in motion pictures". His film Veer Kunal was a huge box office success. He directed Dilip Kumar with Kamini Kaushal in Nadiya Ke Paar, which became the sixth highest grossing Indian film of 1948. His 1954 film Mayurpankh was entered into the 1954 Cannes Film Festival, where it was nominated for the Grand Prize of the Festival.
Sawan Aya Re did well commercially, with Baburao Patel of Filmindia remarking in the 9 May 1949 edition that Sahu's estimate had risen due to the "original treatment" he gave to an "otherwise ordinary" story. He was also known for the Meena Kumari starrer, Dil Apna Aur Preet Parai (1960).
He had four children, Vimal Sahu, Naina Sahu, Mamta Sahu, and Rohit Sahu. His wife Preeti was a Kumaoni Brahmin.Before marrying Preeti, he was briefly married to his Punar Milan (1940) co-star Snehprabha Pradhan before the relationship ended in 1943 after a court battle.

Early life
Sahu was born in present-day Rajnandgaon district in India. His father was the Prime Minister under the Raja of Rajnandgaon. He joined the University of Nagpur and took part in the "freedom struggle",  completing his graduation in 1937. An interest in writing short stories brought him in contact with cinema, where he initially started as an actor.

Filmography
Director
Kunwara Baap (1942)
Raja (1943)
Shararat (1944)
Veer Kunal (1945)
Sindoor (1947)
Sajan (1947)
Nadiya Ke Par (1948)
Sawan Aya Re (1949)
Kali Ghata (1951)
Mayurpankh (1954)
Hamlet (1954)
Kismet Ka Khel (1956)
Bare Sarkar (1957)
Dil Apna Aur Preet Parai (1960)
Grahasti (1963)
Ghar Basake Dekho (1963)
Poonam Ki Raat (1965)
Hare Kanch Ki Chooriyan (1967)
Pushpanjali (1970)
Dhuen Ki Lakeer (1974)

Writer
Producer
Bahurani (1940)
Sawan Aya Re (1949)
Hamara Ghar (1950)
Kali Ghata (1951)
Mayurpankh (1954)
Poonam Ki Raat (1965)
Hare Kanch Ki Chooriyan (1967)
Pushpanjali (1970)