Passage 1:
Adib Kheir
Adib Kheir (Arabic: أديب الخير) was a leading Syrian nationalist of the 1920s. He was the owner of the Librairie Universelle in Damascus. His granddaughter is the spouse of Manaf Tlass.
Passage 2:
Mehdi Abrishamchi
Mehdi Abrishamchi (Persian: مهدی ابریشم‌چی born in 1947 in Tehran) is a high-ranking member of the People's Mujahedin of Iran (MEK).

Early life
Abrishamchi came from a well-known anti-Shah bazaari family in Tehran, and participated in June 5, 1963, demonstrations in Iran. He became a member of Hojjatieh, and left it to join the People's Mujahedin of Iran (MEK) in 1969. In 1972 he was imprisoned for being a MEK member, and spent time in jail until 1979.

Career
Shortly after Iranian Revolution, he became one of the senior members of the MEK. He is now an official in the National Council of Resistance of Iran.

Electoral history
Personal life
Abrishamchi was married to Maryam Rajavi from 1980 to 1985. Shortly after, he married Mousa Khiabani's younger sister Azar.

Legacy
Abrishamchi credited Massoud Rajavi for saving the People's Mojahedin Organization of Iran after the "great schism".
Passage 3:
Heather D. Gibson
Heather Denise Gibson (Greek: Χέδερ Ντενίζ Γκίμπσον) is a Scottish economist currently serving as Director-Advisor to the Bank of Greece (since 2011). She was the spouse of Euclid Tsakalotos, former Greek Minister of Finance.

Academic career
Before assuming her duties at the Bank of Greece and alternating child-rearing duties with her husband, Gibson worked at the University of Kent, where she published two volumes on international exchange rate mechanisms and wrote numerous articles on this and other topics, sometimes in cooperation with her husband, who was teaching at Kent at the time.

Personal life
Gibson first came to Greece in 1993, with her husband, with whom she took turns away from their respective economic studies to raise their three children while the other worked.The couple maintain two homes in Kifisia, along with an office in Athens and a vacation home in Preveza. In 2013, this proved detrimental to Tsakalotos and his party when his critics began calling him «αριστερός αριστοκράτης» (aristeros aristokratis, "aristocrat of the left"), while newspapers opposed to the Syriza party seized on his property holdings as a chance to accuse the couple of hypocrisy for enjoying a generous lifestyle in private while criticizing the "ethic of austerity" in public. One opposition newspaper published on the front page criticism reasoning that Tsakalotos own family wealth came from the same sort of investments in companies as made by financial institutions JP Morgan and BlackRock.

Works
Editor
Economic Bulletin, Bank of Greece

Books
The Eurocurrency Markets, Domestic Financial Policy and International Instability (London, etc., Longman: 1989) ISBN 0312028261
International Finance: Exchange Rates and Financial Flows in the International Financial System (London, etc., Longman: 1996) ISBN 0582218136
Economic Transformation, Democratization and Integration into the European Union (London: Palgrave Macmillan: 2001) ISBN 9780333801222

Articles and papers
"Fundamentally Wrong: Market Pricing of Sovereigns and the Greek Financial Crisis," Journal of Macroeconomics, Elsevier, vol. 39(PB), pp. 405–419 (with Stephen G. & Tavlas, George S., 2014)
"Capital flows and speculative attacks in prospective EU member states" (with Euclid Tsakalotos, Economics of Transition Volume 12, Issue 3, pages 559–586, September 2004)
"A Unifying Framework for Analysing Offsetting Capital Flows and Sterilisation: Germany and the ERM" (with Sophocles Brissimis & Euclid Tsakalotos, International Journal of Finance & Economics, 2002, vol. 7, issue 1, pp. 63–78)
"Internal vs External Financing of Acquisitions: Do Managers Squander Retained Profits" (with Andrew Dickerson and Euclid Tsakalotos, Studies in Economics, 1996; Oxford Bulletin of Economics and Statistics, 2000)
"Are Aggregate Consumption Relationships Similar Across the European Union" (with Alan Carruth & Euclid Tsakalotos, Regional Studies, Volume 33, Issue 1, 1999)
Takeover Risk and the Market for Corporate Control: The Experience of British Firms in the 1970s and 1980 (with Andrew Dickerson and Euclid Tsakalotos, 1998) PDF
"The Impact of Acquisitions on Company Performance: Evidence from a Large Panel of UK Firms" (with Andrew Dickerson and Euclid Tsakalotos, Oxford Economic Papers New Series, Vol. 49, No. 3 (Jul., 1997), pp. 344–361)
"Short-Termism and Underinvestment: The Influence of Financial Systems" (with Andrew Dickerson and Euclid Tsakalotos, The Manchester School of Economic & Social Studies, 1995, vol. 63, issue 4, pp. 351–67)
"Testing a Flow Model of Capital Flight in Five European Countries" (with Euclid Tsakalotos, The Manchester School of Economic and Social Studies, Volume 61, Issue 2, pp. 144–166, June 1993)
Full list of articles by Heather D Gibson. researchgate.net. Recovered 7 July 2015
Passage 4:
Maria Teresa, Grand Duchess of Luxembourg
Maria Teresa (born María Teresa Mestre y Batista; 22 March 1956) is the Grand Duchess of Luxembourg as the wife of Grand Duke Henri, who acceded to the throne in 2000.

Early life and education
Maria Teresa was born on 22 March 1956 in Marianao, Havana, Cuba, to José Antonio Mestre y Álvarez (1926–1993) and wife  María Teresa Batista y Falla de Mestre (1928–1988), both from bourgeois families of Spanish descent. She is also the granddaughter of Agustín Batista y González de Mendoza, who was the founder of the Trust Company of Cuba, the most powerful Cuban bank prior to the Cuban Revolution.In October 1959, at the time of the Cuban Revolution, Maria Teresa Mestre’s parents left Cuba with their children, because the new government headed by Fidel Castro confiscated their properties. The family settled in New York City,  where as a young girl she was a pupil at Marymount School. From 1961 she carried on her studies at the Lycée Français de New York. In her childhood, Maria Teresa Mestre took ballet and singing courses. She practices skiing, ice-skating and water sports. She later lived in Santander, Spain, and in Geneva, Switzerland, where she became a Swiss citizen.In 1980, Maria Teresa graduated from the Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies in Geneva with a degree in political sciences. While studying there, she met her future husband Henri of Luxembourg.

Social and humanitarian interests
Soon after her marriage, Maria Teresa and the then Hereditary Grand Duke Henri established The Prince Henri and Princess Maria Teresa Foundation to help those with special needs integrate fully into society. In 2001, she and her husband created The Grand Duke and Grand Duchess Foundation, launched upon the accession of the couple as the new Grand Duke and Duchess of Luxembourg. In 2004, the Grand Duke Henri and the Grand Duchess Maria Teresa Foundation was created after the merging of the two previous foundations.
In 1997, Maria Teresa was made a special ambassador for UNESCO, working to expand education for young girls and women and help to fight poverty.Since 2005, Maria Teresa has been the chairwoman of the international jury of the European Microfinance Award, which annually awards holders of microfinance and inclusive finance initiatives in developing countries. Also, since 2006, Maria Teresa has been honorary president of the LuxFLAG (Luxembourg Fund Labeling Agency), the first agency to label responsible microfinance investment funds around the world.On 19 April 2007, the Grand Duchess was appointed UNICEF Eminent Advocate for Children, in which role she has visited Brazil (2007), China (2008), and Burundi (2009).She is a member of the Honorary Board of the International Paralympic Committee and a patron of the Ligue Luxembourgeoise de Prévention et d’Action medico-sociales and SOS Villages d’Enfants Monde. The Grand Duchess and her husband Grand Duke Henri are the members of the Mentor Foundation (London), created under the patronage of the World Health Organization. She is also the president of the Luxembourg Red Cross and the Cancer Foundation. In 2016, she organized the first international forum on learning disabilities in Luxembourg.The Grand Duchess supports the UNESCO “Breaking the Poverty Cycle of Women” project in Bangladesh, India, Nepal and Pakistan. The purpose of this project is to improve the living conditions of girls, women and their families. As honorary president of her own foundation, Grand Duchess Maria Teresa set up a project called Projet de la Main Tendue after visiting the Bujumbura prison in 2009 in Burundi. The purpose of this project is to liberate minor people from prison and to give them new opportunities for their future.
In October 2016, Maria Teresa accepted an invitation to join the eminent international Council of Patrons of the Asian University for Women (AUW) in Chittagong, Bangladesh. The university, which is the product of east-west foundational partnerships (Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Open Society Foundation, IKEA Foundation, etc.) and regional cooperation, serves extraordinarily talented women from 15 countries across Asia and the Middle East.In 2019, Maria Teresa presented her initiative "Stand Speak Rise Up!" to end sexual violence in fragile environments, launched in cooperation with the Women’s Forum and with the support of the Luxembourg government. The conference is in partnership with the Dr. Denis Mukwege Foundation and We Are Not Weapons of War.In 2020 the Prime Minister of Luxembourg commissioned a report into the Cour le Grand Ducal following concerns over its working. The report found that up to 1/3 of employees had left since 2015 and that "The most important decisions in the field of personnel management, whether at the level of recruitment, assignment to the various departments or even at the dismissal level are taken by HRH the Grand Duchess.” Several newspaper reports at the time highlighted a 'culture of fear' around the Grand Duchess and "that no-one bar the Prime Minister dared confront her". The report also raised concerns about the use of public funds to pay for the Grand Duchess' personal website and that this had been prioritised over the Cour's own official website. There were also allegations that staff at the Court has been subject to physical abuse and these reports were investigated by the Luxembourg judicial police.
In February 2023 it was reported by several Luxembourg based media that the Grand Duchess had once again been accused of treating staff poorly during an outfit fitting in October 22. The incident even involved the Prime Minister of Luxembourg having to speak to the Grand Duke and Grand Duchess about the treatment of the staff and commissioning a report into it.

Family
Maria Teresa married Prince Henri of Luxembourg in a civil ceremony on 4 February 1981 and a religious ceremony on 14 February 1981, since Valentine's Day was their favourite holiday. The consent of the Grand Duke had been previously given on 7 November 1980. She received a bouquet of red roses and a sugarcane as a wedding gift from Cuban leader, Fidel Castro. The couple has five children: Guillaume, Hereditary Grand Duke of Luxembourg, Prince Félix of Luxembourg, Prince Louis of Luxembourg, Princess Alexandra of Luxembourg, and Prince Sébastien of Luxembourg, They were born at Maternity Hospital in Luxembourg City.

Honours
National
Luxembourg:
 Knight of the Order of the Gold Lion of the House of Nassau
 Grand Cross of the Order of Adolphe of Nassau

Foreign
Austria: Grand Star  of the Decoration of Honour for Services to the Republic of Austria
 Belgium: Grand Cordon of the Order of Leopold I
 Brazil: Grand Cross of the Order of the Southern Cross
 Denmark: Knight of the Order of the Elephant
 Finland: Grand Cross of the Order of the White Rose of Finland
 France: Grand Cross of the Order of National Merit
 Greece: Grand Cross of the Order of Beneficence
 Italy: Knight Grand Cross of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic
 Japan: Grand Cordon (Paulownia) of the Order of the Precious Crown
 Latvia: Commander Grand Cross of the Order of the Three Stars
 Netherlands:
Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Netherlands Lion
Grand Cross of the Order of the Crown
 Norway: Grand Cross of the Order of Saint Olav
Portugal-
 Portuguese Royal Family:
Dame Grand Cross of the Royal Order of Saint Isabel
 Portugal:
Grand Cross of the Order of Christ
Grand Cross of the Order of Saint James of the Sword
Grand Cross of the Order of Infante Henry
Grand Cross of the Order of Camões
 Romania: Grand Cross of the Order of the Star of Romania
 Spain: Dame Grand Cross of the Order of Charles III
 Sweden:
Member of the Royal Order of the Seraphim
Commander Grand Cross of the Royal Order of the Polar Star
Recipient of the 50th Birthday Badge Medal of King Carl XVI Gustaf

Footnotes
External links
 Media related to Maria Teresa, Grand Duchess of Luxembourg at Wikimedia Commons
Official website
The Mentor Foundation charity website
Passage 5:
Princess Auguste of Bavaria (1875–1964)
Princess Auguste of Bavaria (German: Auguste Maria Luise Prinzessin von Bayern; 28 April 1875 – 25 June 1964) was a member of the Bavarian Royal House of Wittelsbach and the spouse of Archduke Joseph August of Austria.

Birth and family
Auguste was born in Munich, Bavaria, the second child of Prince Leopold of Bavaria and his wife, Archduchess Gisela of Austria. She had one older sister, Princess Elisabeth Marie of Bavaria and two younger brothers, Prince Georg of Bavaria and Prince Konrad of Bavaria.

Marriage and issue
She married Joseph August, Archduke of Austria, on 15 November 1893 in Munich. The couple had six children;

Archduke Joseph Francis of Austria, born on 28 March 1895; died on 25 September 1957(1957-09-25) (aged 62)
Archduchess Gisela Auguste Anna Maria, born on 5 July 1897; died on 30 March 1901(1901-03-30) (aged 3)
Archduchess Sophie Klementine Elisabeth Klothilde Maria, born on 11 March 1899; died on 19 April 1978(1978-04-19) (aged 79)
Archduke Ladislaus Luitpold, born on 3 January 1901; died on 29 August 1946(1946-08-29) (aged 44)
Archduke Matthias Joseph Albrecht Anton Ignatius, born on 26 June 1904; died on 7 October 1905(1905-10-07) (aged 1)
Archduchess Magdalena Maria Raineria, born on 6 September 1909; died on 11 May 2000(2000-05-11) (aged 90)

Ancestry
World War I
On the outbreak of war with Italy in 1915, Augusta Maria Louise, though in her 40s and the mother of a son serving as an officer, went to the front with the cavalry regiment of which her husband, the Archduke Josef August, a corps commander, was honorary colonel, and served a common soldier, wearing a saber and riding astride, until the end of the war.
Passage 6:
Soldier (1998 American film)
Soldier is a 1998 American science fiction action film directed by Paul W. S. Anderson, written by David Webb Peoples, and starring Kurt Russell, Jason Scott Lee, Jason Isaacs, Connie Nielsen, Sean Pertwee and Gary Busey. The film tells the story of a highly skilled and emotionally distant soldier who is left for dead, befriends a group of refugees, then faces his former superiors who are determined to eliminate them.
The film was released worldwide on October 23, 1998. Upon its release, Soldier received generally negative reviews, although many praised the action sequences and Russell's performance. The film was a box-office bomb, grossing $14 million worldwide against a production budget of $60 million.

Plot
In 1996, as part of a new military training program, a group of orphaned infants are selected shortly after birth and raised as highly disciplined soldiers with no understanding of anything but military routine. They are trained to be ruthless professionals, and anyone considered physically or mentally unworthy is executed. The survivors are turned into ultimate fighting machines, but have no understanding of the outside world.
In 2036, Sgt. Todd 3465 is a hardened veteran and one of the original 1996 infants, but his unit is about to be replaced by a superior one, with the original unit likely to be deactivated. Colonel Mekum, leader of the original project, introduces a new group of genetically engineered soldiers, designed with superior physical attributes and a complete lack of emotion, except complete aggression.
Captain Church, the commander of Todd's unit, insists on testing the new soldiers' abilities against his own. One new soldier, Caine 607, easily defeats three of the original soldiers, but Todd gouges out Caine's eye before falling from a great height; the body of a dead soldier cushions his fall, and he is knocked unconscious. Mekum orders their bodies disposed of like garbage, declaring them obsolete, while the remaining older soldiers are demoted to menial support roles.
Dumped on Arcadia 234, a waste disposal planet, Todd limps toward a colony whose residents crash-landed there years earlier; as they were believed dead, no rescue missions have been attempted. Todd is sheltered by Mace and his wife Sandra. Though they try to make him welcome, Todd has difficulty adapting to the community due to his extreme conditioning and their conflict-free lives. While Todd develops a silent rapport with their mute son, Nathan, who had been traumatized by a snakebite as an infant, he soon begins to experience flashbacks from his time as a soldier and mistakes one of the colonists for an enemy, nearly killing him. To make matters worse, in a later conflict with a coiled snake, Todd forces Nathan to face it down and strike back to protect himself. His parents disapprove of the lesson, unsure of how to deal with Todd.
Fearful, the colonists expel Todd from the community. Experiencing strong emotion for the first time, Todd appears confused when he is overcome by loss and cries for the first time. A short time later, Mace and Sandra are almost bitten by a snake while they sleep, but they are saved by Nathan, who uses Todd's technique. Now understanding the value of Todd's lesson, they seek him to reintegrate him into the community, but the others resist.
The new genetically engineered soldiers arrive on the garbage planet, and, since the world is listed as uninhabited, Colonel Mekum decides to use the colonists' community as the target in a training exercise. The soldiers spot Mace and kill him just after he finds Todd. Though out-manned and outgunned, Todd's years of battle experience and superior knowledge of the planet allow him to return to the colony and kill the advance squad. Nervous that an unknown enemy force may be confronting them, Colonel Mekum orders the soldiers to withdraw and return with heavy artillery. Using guerrilla tactics, Todd outmaneuvers and defeats all of the remaining soldiers, including Caine 607, whom he defeats in vicious hand-to-hand combat.
Panicking, Mekum orders the transport ship's crew, composed of Todd's old squad, to set up and activate a portable doomsday device powerful enough to destroy the planet. He orders the ship to lift off, leaving the squad behind. When Captain Church objects, Mekum shoots him in cold blood. Before they can take off as planned, Todd appears, and his old comrades silently side with him over the army that has discarded them, and take over the ship. They leave Mekum and his aides on the planet and evacuate the remaining colonists. In an attempt to disarm the device, Mekum accidentally sets it off, killing him and his aides. Todd pilots the ship from Arcadia just ahead of the shockwave and sets course for the Trinity Moons, the colonists' original destination. He picks up Nathan and points to their new destination, while looking out upon the galaxy.

Cast
Production
Development and writing
The script was 15 years old at the time of production.Kurt Russell spoke only 104 words in the entire movie despite being in 85% of the scenes. During the first week of shooting he broke his left ankle, then the top of his right foot four days later, so the entire production needed to be rescheduled. The filmmakers first shot scenes involving Russell lying down, followed by scenes of Russell sitting, Russell standing but not moving, and so on.

Release
Home media
Soldier  was released on VHS and DVD on March 2, 1999, and on Blu-ray on July 26, 2011.

Reception
Box office
Soldier grossed $14.6 million in the United States.

Critical response
The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 15% approval rating based on 53 reviews and an average rating of 3.8/10. The website's critical consensus reads, "A boring genre film and a waste of a good set." Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "B+" on an A+ to F scale.Bruce Westbrook of the Houston Chronicle commented that "the action is handled fairly well, but it's routine, and there's no satisfaction in seeing Todd waste men who are no more bloodthirsty than he is." Lisa Schwarzbaum of Entertainment Weekly criticized the film's overuse of genre clichés, saying "any cliché you can dream up for a futuristic action movie, any familiar big-budget epic you can think to rip off, Soldier has gotten there first." Michael Wilmington of the Chicago Tribune described the film as "a big, clanging, brutal actioner in which we search the murk in vain for the sparks of humanity the moviemakers keep promising us." Lisa Alspector of the Chicago Reader found the film to be enjoyable, calling Russell's performance "persuasive" and saying "this appealing formulaic action adventure displays a lot of conviction in its not-too-flashy action scenes and a little levity in the gradual socialization of Russell's character." Similarly, Kevin Thomas of the Los Angeles Times gave the film a rating of 3.5 out of 5 and called it "a potent comic-book-style action-adventure."

Connection with Blade Runner franchise
Soldier was written by David Peoples, who co-wrote the script for the 1982 film Blade Runner. He considers Soldier to be a "spin-off sidequel"-spiritual successor to Blade Runner, seeing both films as existing in a shared fictional universe. The film obliquely refers to various elements of stories written by Philip K. Dick (who wrote the 1968 novel Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?, on which Blade Runner is based), or film adaptations thereof. A Spinner from Blade Runner can be seen in the wreckage on the junk planet in the film and Russell’s character is shown to have fought in the battles referenced in Roy Batty’s (Rutger Hauer) dying monologue: the Shoulder of Orion and Tannhäuser Gate.
Passage 7:
Paul W. S. Anderson
Paul William Scott Anderson (born 4 March 1965) is an English filmmaker who regularly works in science fiction films and video game adaptations.
Anderson made his feature film debut with the British independent film Shopping (1994), and found commercial success with his second film, the Hollywood-produced Mortal Kombat (1995), based on the first couple of video games of the same name by Midway Games. He is best known as the creative voice behind the first six films of the Resident Evil film series (2002–2016), which stars Milla Jovovich (whom he married in 2009), and is based on the Capcom video game series of the same name. The series's first six films, of which Anderson directed four, have collectively grossed over $1 billion worldwide, making it the most commercially successful video game adaptation of all time. Other of Anderson's notable films are Event Horizon (1997), an initial critical and commercial disappointment that found renewed appreciation on home media; Alien vs. Predator (2004), based on the crossover concept of the same name between the Alien and Predator franchises; and Death Race (2008), a remake/prequel to 1975's Death Race 2000.
Anderson and producer Jeremy Bolt founded Impact Pictures in 1992, under which most of Anderson's films have been made.

Early life
Anderson was born in Wallsend, Northumberland, England. At the age of nine, he started making films with a Super-8 camera. After attending Newlands Preparatory School, Gosforth and Newcastle's Royal Grammar School, he became the youngest person ever to graduate from the University of Warwick, with a B.A. in film and literature.

Career
Anderson began his professional career as a writer on the British crime drama film comedy series El C.I.D., which ran for three series, from 1990 to 1992, and starred Alfred Molina in its first two. He met producer Jeremy Bolt and they founded Impact Pictures in 1992, looking to raise money for Anderson's feature film debut as director, from an action crime drama script of his own, called Shopping. After much trouble securing funding, Shopping, which stars Sean Pertwee, Jude Law (in his first feature film role) and Sadie Frost, was released in the United Kingdom in 1994. The censors of the British Board of Film Classification were not happy with the film's violence of and delayed its release for months. When it was eventually released, critics panned it and some cinemas decided to ban it for promoting an "irresponsible" outlook. In the United States it received only an edited, direct-to-video release two years later. Anderson credits Shopping for inspiring Channel Four Films, who had financed it, to also finance the more successful Shallow Grave and Trainspotting films by Danny Boyle, which in turn, he believes, made critics reassess his film in more positive light in later years, as one of the first in a new wave of British films concerning its youth. Shopping is Anderson's one and only British film, as he grew up watching American and mainland European movies, never imagining himself a British filmmaker. When Shopping was accepted in the Sundance Film Festival, American studios noticed its impressive look and style despite its relatively small $2 million budget, which led to opportunies in Hollywood for Anderson.

Mortal Kombat and commercial success
Anderson directed the fantasy martial arts video game adaptation Mortal Kombat in 1995. Using a script written by Kevin Droney, the film was based on the first entry in the video game franchise by Midway Games, Mortal Kombat, although elements and characters were borrowed from the original game's sequel, Mortal Kombat II. The film featured an ensemble cast, including Robin Shou as Liu Kang and Christopher Lambert as Raiden. Anderson became interested in the project because he often played the game at arcades. The production company decided to hire him based on the accomplished visual flair of Shopping, which was filmed on a very low budget. Anderson, who at the time knew nothing about visual effects or fight scenes, had to study every book on visual effects that he could find, and learned about filming the fight scenes while they were being shot, often consulting those who were experienced in fight choreography on set, such as Shou. The film underwent extensive reshoots in order to add additional fights based on feedback from test screenings, which were attended by fans of the video game franchise. The production company decided to release Mortal Kombat in August 1995, in the hope that the film would become a summer blockbuster. Previous video game adaptations, such as Super Mario Bros., Double Dragon, and Street Fighter had received particularly negative reviews; although Street Fighter was a commercial success, Double Dragon failed to break even, while Super Mario Bros. became a notorious box-office bomb. Mortal Kombat was better received by critics, who gave it a mixed to negative reception. Critics praised the atmosphere, visuals, and fighting sequences, but criticized the plot, dialogue, and acting. It fared better with audiences and fans of the video games, and scored a high A− on a CinemaScore poll. As a result, it spent three weeks as the highest-grossing film at the US box office, and earned over $122 million worldwide, produced on a budget of $18 million. It proved a major success for Anderson, and has been recognised one of the first financially successful film adaptations of a video game. Anderson and most cast members, including Lambert, declined to return for the sequel, Mortal Kombat: Annihilation, which, when released, was critically panned and underperformed at the box office.

Event Horizon, Soldier and The Sight
The success of Mortal Kombat gave Anderson free rein to choose his next project, the science fiction action film Soldier, written by Blade Runner screenwriter David Peoples. Peoples' script—and eventually the film itself—contains references to his work on Blade Runner, and can be considered to be taking place in the same universe, as a sidequel or standalone sequel of sorts. Kurt Russell became attached to star, but decided to take some time off to build up his body, as required by the role, which delayed the production. In the meantime, Anderson directed the 1997 science fiction horror film Event Horizon, written by Philip Eisner and starring Laurence Fishburne and Sam Neill. Despite praise for its visuals and production design, it was not well received by critics or audiences (D+ on a Cinemascore poll), and failed to break even, which Anderson blamed on a tight post-production schedule and studio-enforced cuts. It later sold well on home video and gained a small cult following. Plans to complete a director's cut restoring the deleted footage were abandoned when it was discovered that most of it had been lost or degraded. Soldier was eventually completed and released in 1998, but was a critical and commercial disaster, making less than $15 million in the US, on a budget of $60 million, and releasing straight-to-video in several other markets. Anderson has expressed his regret that the planned location shoots had to be changed to studio soundstages due to the El Niño hurricane, which ended up compromising the film's look. He also verbalized his disappointment with Warner Bros., whom he believes tried to market the film to the same male teen audience as Mortal Kombat, rather than to grown-up audiences, including women.After his last two films' poor performances, Anderson was forced to put his planned remake of the cult film Death Race 2000 on hold, and he set about writing and directing the 2000 supernatural mystery drama TV film The Sight, starring Andrew McCarthy. It was meant as a pilot for a potential series, but despite achieving high ratings. it was not picked up. Anderson made his earlier films as "Paul Anderson", the name he registered with the Directors Guild of America, but with The Sight he began crediting himself as "Paul W. S. Anderson", as filmmaker Paul Thomas Anderson had registered himself with the Writers Guild of America as "Paul Anderson", making it impossible for either of them to both write and direct films as "Paul Anderson".

Resident Evil, Alien vs. Predator and Death Race
Anderson returned to cinema screens in 2002 with Resident Evil, a science fiction action horror film loosely based on the Capcom video game series of the same name. Anderson came up with the idea of adapting the games after playing the first couple of them for days in his apartment. Because Constantin Film, who had acquired the rights to the series, were not willing to spend more money than they already had on failed attempts (including a script by George A. Romero), Anderson convinced them to write the script, titled The Undead, on spec. If they liked it, he would sell it to them as a Resident Evil film; if not, he would take it elsewhere and try to make it unrelated to the games. He saw the film as a prequel of sorts to the first game in the series, and as such did not include any of the games' characters, a fact criticized by fans. Instead, it stars Milla Jovovich as an original character, Alice. Jovovich is the only actor that reprised her role in all of the series' six films. In comparison to Anderson's previous two films, Resident Evil was produced on a moderate budget of $33 million and became a commercial success with a little over $100 million at the box office. It also performed strongly on home media. Critically, Resident Evil was not received well, although, similarly to Mortal Kombat, some reviews characterized it as one of the better attempts at adapting a video game. It received the "fair" rating of B by audiences on a Cinemascore poll. Its relative popularity made Capcom put homages to it in video games Resident Evil 4 and Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles. Anderson did not direct, but he wrote, produced, and was otherwise heavily involved with the making of two sequels, Resident Evil: Apocalypse (2004) and Resident Evil: Extinction (2007), which completed the first of the eventual two trilogies of Resident Evil films. In these two sequels, Anderson began to introduce characters from the games, albeit in supporting roles compared to Alice. Both films received similarly negative reviews to the first, but were even bigger commercial successes.Anderson's next project was Alien vs. Predator, based on the crossover concept of the same name of the Alien and Predator franchises, popularized by a series of Dark Horse comics and hinted at in Predator 2. A film version had been stuck in development hell for several years, despite the franchise's crossing into every other form of media, from books to comics to video games. Anderson directed the film from a script of his own, and it was released in 2004. It received negative reviews, and a B on a Cinemascore poll by audiences. It was a big commercial success, however, grossing somewhat over $170 million on a $60 million budget. A sequel was made, Aliens vs. Predator: Requiem, in which Anderson was not involved, and which failed to match Anderson's film's commercial or even critical performance, a fact that Anderson has used to defend his film.After completing Alien vs. Predator, Anderson resumed work on his planned remake of Death Race 2000, which was released as Death Race in 2008. The science fiction action thriller stars Jason Statham, and Anderson directed it based on his own screenplay. He refers to it as more of a prequel than a remake on the commentary of the home video releases. It received an average reception by critics, and scored a solid B+ on a Cinemascore poll. It grossed little over $75 million on a budget of $45 million, failing to prove a commercial success on the level of Anderson's previous two films. Anderson wrote and produced two straight-to-video prequels, Death Race 2 (2011) and Death Race 3: Inferno (2013), set before the events of the 2008 film. He later wrote and executive-produced Death Race: Beyond Anarchy (2018), a sequel to the first film. 
The Resident Evil productions were criticized for unsafe filming and using shell companies to avoid liability. During the filming of Resident Evil: The Final Chapter (2016), crew member Ricardo Cornelius died when he was caught beneath a Humvee sliding off of a rotating platform. Stunt-woman Olivia Jackson lost most of an arm and was partially paralyzed when she collided with a camera crane during the filming of a motorcycle stunt in rain and freezing conditions. It was determined that she was wearing inadequate safety equipment, and that the stunt's timing had been changed without her knowledge. During the filming of Resident Evil: Retribution (2012), twelve extras were hospitalized with leg, neck, and back wounds after falling from a collapsing high-wheeled platform.

Resident Evil, The Three Musketeers and Pompeii
In 2010, Anderson wrote and directed the first installment in a second trilogy of Resident Evil films, titled Resident Evil: Afterlife. The film continues the storyline from where that last one ended. Anderson envisioned the new trilogy as a way to make use of a new stylistic approach, using slow motion and 3D. Anderson filmed in native 3D, using the Sony F35 camera, mounted on the Fusion Camera System, which was previously used in Avatar. Despite negative reviews by critics, and a lukewarm B in a Cinemascore poll by audiences, the film grossed $300 million on a budget of $60 million, making over $150 million that the previously most successful film in the franchise, Resident Evil: Extinction.
Anderson's next film was the 2011 3D romantic action adventure film The Three Musketeers, from a screenplay by Andrew Davies and Alex Litvak based on the novel of the same name. Matthew Macfadyen, Ray Stevenson, Luke Evans and Logan Lerman respectively star as the characters from the novel Athos, Porthos, Aramis, and d'Artagnan, while Milla Jovovich plays Milady de Winter. Furthermore, Christoph Waltz stars as Cardinal Richelieu, Orlando Bloom plays the Duke of Buckingham and Mads Mikkelsen appears as Captain Rochefort. The film failed to impress critics who reviewed it negatively, and scored a B on a Cinemascore poll. Commercially it did not perform very well, grossing around $132–140 million on a reported budget that ranges between $75 and 90 million.Anderson wrote and directed the fifth installment in the Resident Evil film franchise, Resident Evil: Retribution, in 2012. Anderson brought back several actors from the original trilogy of films to play alternate versions of their characters. The film received generally negative reviews, and a C+ on a Cinemascore poll, the series' lowest. Produced with a budget of $65 million, it grossed $240 million on the box office which is $60 million lower than the previous film's gross, but still overall larger than the grosses of each films of the original trilogy.In 2014 his 3D historical disaster romance film named Pompeii was released. Inspired by the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in 79 that destroyed Pompeii, a city of the Roman Empire, the film was written by Janet Scott Batchler, Lee Batchler and Michael Robert Johnson and stars Kit Harington, Emily Browning, Carrie-Anne Moss, Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje, Jessica Lucas, with Jared Harris, and Kiefer Sutherland. The film was generally negatively received by critics, and was rated a B on a Cinemascore poll. Pompeii was a modest box office success on the box office, grossing $108–118 million on a reported budget between $80 and 100 million.In late 2016 in Japan, and early 2017 in the rest of the world, Anderson's Resident Evil: The Final Chapter was released, which according to both him and Jovovich is the last Resident Evil film they will be involved with. Anderson designed the film "to come full circle", provide answers to some of the series' mysteries, and provide closure for the character of Alice. He decided to abandon the previous two films' stylistic approach of using slow motion in favor of a more fast and gritty feeling, and he also decided to convert the film in 3D in post, instead of filming with 3D cameras. His first daughter with Jovovich, Ever Gabo Anderson, was cast in a double role, as both a young version of Alice, and the character of Red Queen introduced in the original film. The film received average to negative reviews, slightly better than the previous installments, and more along the lines of the original film. It was rated B by audiences on a Cinemascore poll, which is the highest rating in the series, and shared with the first and second films. The film grossed $312 million, on a budget of $40 million, in large part due to a record $94.3 million opening in China, making it Anderson's highest-grossing film.

Monster Hunter
In December 2020, Anderson directed Monster Hunter, based on Capcom's Monster Hunter video-game franchise. It was released in December 2020 following delays relating to the COVID-19 pandemic, leading to a disappointing gross of $43 million against a $60 million budget. It received mixed to negative reviews.

Future projects
Anderson is set to write and direct an adaptation of George R.R. Martin's short story, In The Lost Lands. Peter V. Brett's fantasy novel The Warded Man was optioned for film production by Anderson and longtime producing partner Jeremy Bolt, but a 2016 update of Brett's website stated that they were no longer involved in the project.

Personal life
Anderson began dating Resident Evil star Milla Jovovich in 2002 after the film. He proposed to her in 2003, and they were "engaged on-and-off for four years" before becoming a couple again early in 2007. On 3 November 2007, Jovovich gave birth to their first child, daughter Ever Anderson, in Los Angeles, California. They married on 22 August 2009. Their second child, a daughter, Dashiel, was born in April 2015. In August 2019, Jovovich revealed that they were expecting a third daughter, Osian, after losing her pregnancy two years prior. Their third daughter was born in February 2020.

Filmography
Film
Also cameo appearance in The Shot (short film, 2011).
Producer

The Dark (2005)
DOA: Dead or Alive (2006)
Pandorum (2009)Executive producer

Here Are the Young Men (2020)
Resident Evil: Welcome to Raccoon City (2021)

Direct-to-video
Television
Commercial
Doom 3 "Warnings" (2005).
Volkswagen "Bus", "Chase", "Explosion" (2014).

Reception
Critical reception to Anderson's films has been negative. While Mortal Kombat and some of the Resident Evil films commonly feature on lists about the best film adaptations of video games, such lists mention that films of the genre are, at best, lackluster. Anderson has repeatedly stated he considers himself a "populist filmmaker", who only cares about whether his movies entertain the audience and make them cheer in the cinema, rather than their reception by professional critics.
Passage 8:
Gertrude of Bavaria
Gertrude of Bavaria (Danish and German: Gertrud; 1152/55–1197) was Duchess of Swabia as the spouse of Duke Frederick IV, and Queen of Denmark as the spouse of King Canute VI.
Gertrude was born to Henry the Lion of Bavaria and Saxony and Clementia of Zähringen in either 1152 or 1155. She was married to Frederick IV, Duke of Swabia, in 1166, and became a widow in 1167. In 1171 she was engaged and in February 1177 married to Canute of Denmark in Lund. The couple lived the first years in Skåne. On 12 May 1182, they became king and queen. She did not have any children. During her second marriage, she chose to live in chastity and celibacy with her husband. Arnold of Lübeck remarked of their marriage, that her spouse was: "The most chaste one, living thus his days with his chaste spouse" in eternal chastity.
Passage 9:
Marie-Louise Coidavid
Queen Marie Louise Coidavid (1778 – 11 March 1851) was the Queen of the Kingdom of Haiti 1811–20 as the spouse of Henri Christophe.

Early life
Marie-Louise was born into a free black family; her father was the owner of Hotel de la Couronne, Cap-Haïtien. Henri Christophe was a slave purchased by her father. Supposedly, he earned enough money in tips from his duties at the hotel that he was able to purchase his freedom before the Haitian Revolution. They married in Cap-Haïtien in 1793, having had a relationship with him from the year prior. They had four children: François Ferdinand (born 1794), Françoise-Améthyste (d. 1831), Athénaïs (d. 1839) and Victor-Henri.
At her spouse's new position in 1798, she moved to the Sans-Souci Palace. During the French invasion, she and her children lived underground until 1803.

Queen
In 1811, Marie-Louise was given the title of queen upon the creation of the Kingdom of Haiti. Her new status gave her ceremonial tasks to perform, ladies-in-waiting, a secretary and her own court. She took her position seriously, and stated that the title "given to her by the nation" also gave her responsibilities and duties to perform. She served as the hostess of the ceremonial royal court life performed at the Sans-Souci Palace. She did not involve herself in the affairs of state. She was given the position of Regent should her son succeed her spouse while still being a minor.  However, as her son became of age before the death of his father, this was never to materialize.After the death of the king in 1820, she remained with her daughters Améthyste and Athénaïs at the palace until they were escorted from it by his followers together with his corpse; after their departure, the palace was attacked and plundered. Marie-Louise and her daughters were given the property Lambert outside Cap. She was visited by president Jean Pierre Boyer, who offered her his protection; he denied the spurs of gold she gave him, stating that he was the leader of poor people. They were allowed to settle in Port-au-Prince. Marie-Louise was described as calm and resigned, but her daughters, especially Athénaïs, were described as vengeful.

Exile
The Queen was in exile for 30 years. In August 1821, the former queen left Haiti with her daughters under the protection of the British admiral Sir Home Popham, and travelled to London. There were rumours that she was searching for the money, three million, deposited by her spouse in Europe. Whatever the case, she did live the rest of her life without economic difficulties. The English climate and pollution during the Industrial Revolution was determintal to Améthyste's health, and eventually they decided to leave.In 1824, Marie-Louise and her daughters moved in Pisa in Italy, where they lived for the rest of their lives, Améthyste dying shortly after their arrival and Athénaïs in 1839. They lived discreetly for the most part, but were occasionally bothered by fortune hunters and throne claimers who wanted their fortune. Shortly before her death, she wrote to Haiti for permission to return. She never did, however, before she died in Italy. She is buried in the church of San Donnino. A historical marker was installed in front of the church on April 23, 2023 to commemorate the Queen, her daughter and her sister.

See also
Marie-Claire Heureuse Félicité
Adélina Lévêque