Passage 1:
Michel Barbey
Michel Barbey (1927-) is a French stage, film, and television actor known for his comic roles. He starred in the 1950 film Dominique.

Selected filmography
Lawless Roads (1947)
Rendezvous in July (1949)
The Wolf (1949)
Cartouche, King of Paris (1950)
Dominique (1950)
The Girl with the Whip (1952)
The Secret of the Mountain Lake (1952)
Their Last Night (1953)
The Case of Doctor Laurent (1957)
La Horse (1970)
Passage 2:
Chris Segar
Chris Segar is a Welsh television presenter best known for presenting the consumer affairs programme The Ferret since 1996.

Career
Chris Segar started his career as a daily newspaper reporter and from 1963 (maybe) worked for Radio Clwyd and BBC Wales before moving to ITV Wales, where he has specialised in presenting current affairs programmes such as Wales This Week and The Ferret. He has also directed and produced documentary programmes.Segar has also presented Welsh and Wealthy and Segar On Success on ITV1 Wales.

Personal life
Segar is married and has a son, daughter, stepson, and six grandchildren. He lives in Cardiff and also has a home in France.
Passage 3:
René Clément
René Clément (French: [ʁəne klemɑ̃]; 18 March 1913 – 17 March 1996) was a French film director and screenwriter. He is known for directing the films The Battle of the Rails (1946), Forbidden Games (1952), Gervaise (1956), Purple Noon (1960), and Is Paris Burning (1966). He received numerous accolades including five prizes at the Cannes Film Festival and the Honorary César in 1984.

Early life
Clément studied architecture at the École des Beaux-Arts where he developed an interest in filmmaking. In 1936, he directed his first film, a 20-minute short written by and featuring Jacques Tati. Clément spent the latter part of the 1930s making documentaries in parts of the Middle East and Africa. In 1937, he and archaeologist Jules Barthou were in Yemen making preparations to film a documentary, the first ever of that country and one that includes the only known film image of Imam Yahya.

Career
Almost ten years passed before Clément directed a feature but his French Resistance film, La Bataille du rail (1945), gained much critical and commercial success. From there Clément became one of his country's most successful and respected directors, garnering numerous awards including two films that won the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, the first in 1950 for The Walls of Malapaga (Au-delà des grilles) and the second time two years later for Forbidden Games (Jeux interdits). Clément had international success with several films but his star-studded 1966 epic Is Paris Burning?, written by Gore Vidal and Francis Ford Coppola and produced by Paul Graetz was a costly box office failure.
He began directing Play Dirty (a.k.a. Written in the Sand) but quit early in production due to disputes with the film's producer Harry Saltzman. He directed the thriller Joy House (1964) with Jane Fonda and Alain Delon. 
In May 2023 On Watch What Happens Live! with Andy Cohen, Fonda alleged that Clément sexually harassed her during the film's production telling her that the film involved a love scene and that she needed to sleep with him so that he could judge her orgasm. During the production he was 51 and she was 27.In 1973 he was a member of the jury at the 8th Moscow International Film Festival. Clément continued to make a few films until his retirement in 1975, including an international success with Rider on the Rain that starred Charles Bronson and Marlène Jobert. In 1984 the French motion picture industry honored his lifetime contribution to film with a special César Award.

Personal life
Clément's second wife was Irish-born screenwriter Johanna Harwood whom he had met on the set of his 1954 film Monsieur Ripois.

Death
Clément died on 17 March 1996, a day before his 83rd birthday and was buried in the local cemetery in Menton on the French Riviera where he had spent his years in retirement.

Films
Director
Soigne ton gauche, 1936
Paris la nuit, 1939
La Bataille du rail (Battle of the Rails), 1946
Le Père tranquille (Mr. Orchid), 1946
Les Maudits (The Damned), 1947
Au-delà des grilles (The Walls of Malapaga), 1949
Le Château de verre (Glass Castle), 1950
Jeux interdits (Forbidden Games), 1952
Monsieur Ripois (Knave of Hearts), 1954
Gervaise, 1956
This Angry Age (Barrage contre le Pacifique, La Diga sul Pacifico), 1958
Plein soleil (Purple Noon), 1960
Quelle joie de vivre (The Joy of Living, Che gioia vivere), 1961
Le Jour et l'Heure (The Day and the Hour), 1963
Les Félins (Love Cage/Joy House), 1964
Paris brûle-t-il? (Is Paris Burning?), 1966
Le Passager de la pluie (Rider on the Rain), 1969
La Maison sous les arbres (The Deadly Trap), 1971
La Course du lièvre à travers les champs (...and Hope to Die), 1972
La Baby-Sitter (Wanted: Babysitter), 1975

Actor
Plein soleil (1960) - Le serveur maladroit (uncredited)
The Joy of Living (1963) - French General
Yoroppa tokkyu (1984) - (final film role)

Accolades
1946: International Jury Prize at the Cannes Film Festival - La Bataille du rail (Battle of the Rails)
1949: Cannes Film Festival Best Director award - Au-delà des grilles (The Walls of Malapaga)
1952: Lion d'or at the Venice Film Festival - Forbidden Games (Jeux interdits)
1952: New York Film Critics Circle Awards for Best Foreign Language Film - Forbidden Games (Jeux interdits)
1953: BAFTA Award for Best Film - Forbidden Games (Jeux interdits)
1954: Prix du jury at Cannes Film Festival - Monsieur Ripois (Lover Boy)
1956: Lion d'or at the Venice Film Festival - Gervaise
1956: BAFTA Award for Best Film - Gervaise
Passage 4:
The War of the Volcanoes
The War of the Volcanoes (Italian original title La guerra dei vulcani) is a 2012 documentary film directed by Francesco Patierno detailing the filming of Roberto Rossellini's 1950 film Stromboli starring Ingrid Bergman and the 1950 film Volcano starring Anna Magnani.

External links
The War of the Volcanoes at IMDb
Passage 5:
The Glass Castle (2017 film)
The Glass Castle is a 2017 American biographical drama film directed by Destin Daniel Cretton and written by Cretton, Andrew Lanham, and Marti Noxon. It is based on Jeannette Walls' 2005 best-selling memoir of the same name. Depicting Walls' childhood,  where her family lived in poverty and sometimes as squatters, the film stars Brie Larson as Walls, with Naomi Watts, Woody Harrelson, Max Greenfield, and Sarah Snook in supporting roles.
The Glass Castle was released on August 11, 2017, by Lionsgate and received mixed reviews from critics. They praised the performances of its cast, particularly Larson, but criticized the emotional tones and adaptation. The film grossed $22 million in North America.

Plot
As a child, Jeannette Walls lives a nomadic life with her painter mother Rose, her intelligent but irresponsible father Rex, older sister Lori, and younger brother Brian. While cooking unsupervised, Jeannette is severely burned. At the hospital, a doctor and social worker question her home life, but Rex distracts the staff and escapes with Jeannette. The family leaves town, and Jeannette is enchanted by Rex’s plans for the family’s dream house, a glass castle.
The family soon includes Jeannette’s infant sister Maureen, and remains on the move for years, eventually relocating to a dilapidated house in Utah. Jeannette nearly drowns when a drunk Rex aggressively teaches her to swim. He assaults the lifeguard, forcing the family – now pursued by the law and with no money – to go to Welch, West Virginia, where the children meet their grandparents and uncle Stanley. 
Rex moves his family into a ramshackle house in the wilderness, living without running water, gas, or electricity. When the family has not eaten in days, Rex takes their remaining money to buy food, but returns home drunk after a fight. Sewing up his wound, Jeannette asks him to stop drinking, and Rex ties himself to his bed, successfully enduring withdrawal. He lands a job as a construction worker and the family enjoys a comfortable Christmas.
The parents attend the funeral of Rose’s mother in Texas, leaving the children with their grandparents in Welch. The sisters discover Erma sexually assaulting Brian and attack her, but are pulled away by Stanley. When their parents return, Rex refuses to listen to his children about the incident. The family returns home and he resumes drinking, leading to a violent altercation with Rose. Jeannette is unable to convince her mother to leave Rex, and the siblings promise to care for each other and escape their poverty.
As a teenager, Jeannette is drawn to journalism. The siblings have now saved enough money for Lori to leave for New York City, infuriating Rex; Jeannette prepares to do the same. Erma dies, and after the funeral, Jeannette is pulled into her father’s scheme to hustle his acquaintance Robbie at pool. He loses to Rex and unwittingly reveals Jeannette’s plan to move to New York City. She accompanies Robbie upstairs and he attempts to rape her, but she shows her scars from her childhood burns and leaves. 
At home, she discovers her father has stolen her savings, but escapes from home anyway. Attending college in New York City, Jeannette faces financial difficulties and prepares to drop out, but Rex arrives with a pile of gambling winnings, telling her to follow her dreams.
By 1989, Jeannette is a gossip columnist for New York magazine and engaged to marry David, a financial analyst. At dinner with a client of David’s, Jeannette lies about her parents. On the way home, she sees her now-homeless parents dumpster diving. She later meets with her mother, who is dismissive of her engagement. Jeannette and David visit her family at the abandoned building where her parents are squatting. Brian, now a police officer, and Lori live comfortably, but Maureen has moved in with their parents. Rex and David drunkenly arm wrestle and David wins, but Rex punches him in the nose anyway. Returning home, David tells Jeannette that he wants nothing more to do with her parents.
Maureen calls Jeannette to explain that she is moving to California. At her engagement party, Jeannette discovers that her parents have owned valuable land – now worth almost $1 million – since she was a child, but chose never to sell. Furious at Rex’s refusal to admit to the pain he caused his family, Jeannette bans him from her life. Some time later, Jeannette is unhappily married to David. Rose reaches out to tell her Rex is dying, but Jeannette refuses to see him. At dinner with another of David’s clients, Jeannette finds the courage to reveal the truth about her parents. She races to her father, and they reconcile before he dies. The following Thanksgiving, Jeannette – now a freelance writer living alone – celebrates with her family, reminiscing about Rex’s unconventional life.

Cast
Brie Larson as Jeannette Walls
Chandler Head as Jeannette Walls (age 8)
Ella Anderson as Jeannette Walls (age 11)
Naomi Watts as Rose Mary Walls
Woody Harrelson as Rex Walls
Sarah Snook as Lori Walls
Olivia Kate Rice as Lori Walls (age 10)
Sadie Sink as Lori Walls (age 13)
Josh Caras as Brian Walls
Iain Armitage as Brian Walls (age 6)
Charlie Shotwell as Brian Walls (age 9)
Brigette Lundy-Paine as Maureen Walls
Charlie and Noemie Guyon as Baby Maureen Walls
Eden Grace Redfield as three-year-old Maureen Walls
Shree Crooks as Young Maureen Walls
Max Greenfield as David
Dominic Bogart as Robbie
Joe Pingue as Uncle Stanley
Robin Bartlett as Erma

Production
In April 2012, Lionsgate was reported to have acquired the rights to the book and Jennifer Lawrence was in talks to star in the film. In October 2013, it was noted that director Destin Daniel Cretton was in talks to direct the film and re-write the screenplay with Andrew Lanham from a previous draft by Marti Noxon. In October 2015, Brie Larson joined the cast of the film, replacing Lawrence; she had exited the film after a prolonged search for a male lead. In November 2015, Woody Harrelson joined the cast of the film as the father. In March 2016, Naomi Watts joined the cast as the mother. In April 2016, Max Greenfield and Sarah Snook joined the cast. In May 2016, Ella Anderson joined the cast.Principal photography began on May 20, 2016, in Welch, West Virginia.

Release
The Glass Castle was released on August 11, 2017, by Lionsgate.

Box office
The Glass Castle grossed $22 million in the United States and Canada.In North America, The Glass Castle was released alongside The Nut Job 2: Nutty by Nature and Annabelle: Creation, and was projected to gross around $5 million from 1,461 theaters in its opening weekend. The film made $1.7 million on its first day and $4.7 million over the weekend, finishing 9th at the box office. The film made $2.6 million in its second weekend (a drop of 45.5%), finishing 12th.

Critical response
On review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 52% based on 164 reviews, and an average rating of 6/10. The website's critical consensus reads, "The Glass Castle has an affecting real-life story and an outstanding performance by Brie Larson, but these aren't enough to outweigh a fundamentally misguided approach to the material." On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score 56 out of 100, based on reviews from 39 critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "A−" on an A+ to F scale.Writing for Rolling Stone, Peter Travers said the film "peddles easy uplift instead of cold, hard truths" and gave it two stars out of four, saying, "Hollywood has a knack for sanitizing books that deserve better. In the case of The Glass Castle, it's a damn shame." Richard Roeper of Chicago Sun-Times also gave the film two out of four stars and was equally critical for its presentation, writing: "...a film that presents overwhelming evidence of Rex and Rose Mary as appalling human beings for 90 percent of the journey, and then asks us to give them a break? No sale."
Passage 6:
Brigette Lundy-Paine
Brigette Lundy-Paine (born August 10, 1994) is an American actor. They first came to prominence for portraying Casey Gardner on all four seasons of the Netflix comedy-drama Atypical (2017–2021). In 2020, Lundy-Paine achieved further recognition for playing Billie Logan, the daughter of Ted Logan, in the science fiction comedy film Bill & Ted Face the Music.

Personal life
Born August 10, 1994, in Dallas, Texas, Brigette Lundy-Paine is the child of Laura Lundy and Robert Paine, who are both actors and directors, and has a younger brother. When Lundy-Paine was two years old, their family moved to Alameda, California. In 2012, they graduated from Encinal High School, where they were a cheerleader. They graduated from New York University in 2015.On November 8, 2019, Lundy-Paine came out as non-binary, going by they/them pronouns, and had previously said they are queer. They have also been involved as an activist, including participating in the Black Lives Matter movement.

Career
Lundy-Paine is known for their portrayal of Casey Gardner on the television series Atypical.  Lundy-Paine also co-founded the "vocal band" Subtle Pride, as well as Waif Magazine, an art publication.

Filmography
Passage 7:
Raymond Leboursier
Raymond Leboursier (22 May 1917 – 26 July 1987) was a French film editor, film director, actor, and screenwriter.

Filmography
Actor
1930: Le Réquisitoire (first title of the film: Homicide) by Dimitri Buchowetzki
1931: The Devil's Holiday by Alberto Cavalcanti: Monk McConnell
1931: À mi-chemin du ciel by Alberto Cavalcanti
1932: Une jeune fille et un million by Fred Ellis and Max Neufeld
1934: Un de la montagne by Serge de Poligny
1934: Château de rêve by Géza von Bolváry and Henri-Georges Clouzot

Director
1942: Les Petits Riens
1945: Naïs, directed with Marcel Pagnol
1949: Menace de mort (film)
1949: Le Furet
1951: La vie est un jeu
1952: La femme à l'orchidée
1959: Henri Gagnon organiste
1960: Le Prix de la science (short film)
1961: Dubois et fils (documentary), codirected with Bernard Devlin
1969: Les Gros Malins

Assistant director
1948: Les Parents terribles by Jean Cocteau

Film editor
1936: Les Petites Alliées de Jean Dréville
1937: Les Nuits blanches de Saint-Pétersbourg de Jean Dréville
1937: Les Hommes de proie de Willy Rozier
1938: His Uncle from Normandy de Jean Dréville
1938: The Chess Player de Jean Dréville
1938: Rasputin de Marcel L'Herbier
1939: Entente cordiale by Marcel L'Herbier
1940: Marseille mes amours by Jacques Daniel-Norman
1940: President Haudecoeur by Jean Dréville
1941: L'An 40 by Fernand Rivers
1941: Un chapeau de paille d'Italie (1941 film) by Maurice Cammage
1942: Le journal tombe à cinq heures by Georges Lacombe
1942: Monsieur La Souris by Georges Lacombe
1943: Domino by Roger Richebé
1948: The Eagle with Two Heads by Jean Cocteau
1949: The Cupid Club by Marc-Gilbert Sauvajon
1953: Their Last Night by Georges Lacombe
1953: La Belle de Cadix by Raymond Bernard
1955: Les Fruits de l'été by Raymond Bernard
1955: The Light Across the Street by Georges Lacombe
1956: Babes a GoGo by Paul Mesnier
1957: Les Suspects by Jean Dréville
1958: Les Mains nettes by Claude Jutra
1959: Les Brûlés by Bernard Devlin
1960: Walk down Any Street (short film) by Bernard Devlin
1967: Comment les séduire de Jean-Claude Roy
1967: The Viscount by Maurice Cloche

External links
Raymond Leboursier at IMDb
Passage 8:
The Glass Castle (1950 film)
The Glass Castle (French: Le Château de verre) is a 1950 French romantic drama film directed by René Clément who co-wrote the screenplay with Gian Bistolfi and Pierre Bost, based on the 1935 novel Das große Einmaleins by Vicki Baum. The film stars Michèle Morgan and Jean Marais, Jean Servais (French version), Fosco Giachetti (Italian version) and Elisa Cegani.
The film's sets were designed by the art director Léon Barsacq.

Main characters
Michèle Morgan as  Evelyne Lorin-Bertal
Jean Marais as  Rémy Marsay
Jean Servais as  Laurent Bertal (French version)
Fosco Giachetti as  Laurent Bertal (Italian version)
Elisa Cegani as  Eléna
Elina Labourdette as  Marion
Giovanna Galletti as  Louise Morel - l'accusée
André Carnège as  Le secrétaire
Roger Dalphin as  Marcel
Albert Michel as  Le charmeur d'oiseaux
Colette Régis as  La tenancière de l'hôtel
Allain Dhurtal as  Le procureur

See also
Rendezvous in Paris (1982 film)
Passage 9:
Destin Daniel Cretton
Destin Daniel Cretton  is an American filmmaker. He is best known for his films Short Term 12 (2013), The Glass Castle (2017), Just Mercy (2019) and the Marvel Studios film Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings (2021). He has also been tapped to direct Marvel Studios' Avengers: The Kang Dynasty (2026).

Early life
Cretton was born in 1978 in Haiku, Hawaii on the island of Maui. He is of half-Japanese descent. He was home-schooled by his Christian mother. His sister Joy is a costume designer who has worked on several of Destin's projects. He lived in Haiku in a two-bedroom house with his five siblings, until he was 19 years old. He moved to San Diego, California to attend Point Loma Nazarene University, where he majored in communications. After graduating, Cretton worked for two years as a staff person at a group home for at-risk teenagers.He made short films as a hobby, which developed as a vocational path. He attended and graduated from film school at San Diego State University.

Career
While at San Diego State University, Cretton made a 22-minute short film, Short Term 12, based on his experiences at the facility for teenagers. The short film premiered at the 2009 Sundance Film Festival, where it won the Jury Prize in Short Filmmaking. After graduating from film school, Cretton made his feature directorial debut with the 90 minute film, I Am Not a Hipster, which premiered at Sundance on January 20, 2012. The film was produced by Ron Najor, who would later go on to produce the feature adaptation of Short Term 12 alongside Maren Olson, Asher Goldstein, and Joshua Astrachan. Cretton's feature-length screenplay won one of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences' five Nicholl Fellowships in Screenwriting in 2010.The film premiered on March 10, 2013, at South by Southwest, where it won the Grand Jury and Audience Awards for a Narrative Feature. Widely acclaimed as one of the best films of 2013, it was listed on many film critics' annual top ten lists. The film earned several accolades, including three Independent Spirit Award nominations.In 2014, Cretton was attached to rewrite the script and direct The Glass Castle, an adaptation of Jeannette Walls' 2005 best-selling memoir of the same name about a successful young woman raised by severely dysfunctional parents. Starring Brie Larson, the film also features Woody Harrelson and Naomi Watts as her alcoholic father and eccentric mother, respectively. Larson's role was originally considered by Jennifer Lawrence, but she dropped out while the studio was seeking the male lead. The film was released on August 10, 2017. It received mixed reviews from critics; they praised the performances of its cast (particularly Larson and Harrelson) but criticized the emotional tones and adaptation of the source material.In 2016, it was announced that Ryan Coogler had teamed up with Cretton and poet/playwright Chinaka Hodge to develop Minors, a television drama series produced by Charles D. King. Drawing from Cretton's experiences working in residential foster care, Hodge's background teaching under-served youth in San Francisco Bay area continuation schools and Coogler's upbringing in the East Bay, Minors promises to take an unflinching look at institutionalization, exploring juvenile facilities and the children who grow up in that system. The series will show how that system shapes young people over a one-year period. Hodge will write the series, and Coogler and Cretton will direct.

Cretton subsequently teamed with Larson and Michael B. Jordan for Just Mercy, a drama film based on civil rights defense attorney Bryan Stevenson's New York Times bestselling memoir: Just Mercy: A Story of Justice and Redemption. Stevenson founded the Equal Justice Initiative in Montgomery, Alabama, where he provided defense counsel to men on death row. The plot follows Stevenson (Jordan) as he explores the case of a death row prisoner, Walter McMillian, whom he fought to free. The film premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 6, 2019, and was theatrically released on December 25, 2019, by Warner Bros. Pictures. Just Mercy was critically acclaimed.In March 2019, Cretton was hired by Marvel Studios to direct a film based on Shang-Chi. Both the film and Cretton's involvement were confirmed during the San Diego Comic-Con 2019, with the film being titled Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings. The film, which is Marvel's first superhero movie tentpole franchise with an Asian protagonist, stars Simu Liu as the title character, with Tony Leung Chiu-wai and Awkwafina co-starring. On January 5, 2020, Cretton said that he signed up to the project because he wanted "to give [his] son a superhero to look up to". The film was set to be released on February 12, 2021, but was delayed to May 7 and later July 9 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  During the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, Shang-Chi's production in Australia was temporarily suspended while Cretton self-isolated. Production was halted on March 12, 2020, and resumed in August 2020 and concluded in October 2020. Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings was released in theaters on September 3, 2021. In December 2021, Cretton signed a deal with Marvel Studios and Hulu's Onyx Collective to develop a Shang-Chi sequel and new Disney+ MCU series through his production banner Family Owned. In June 2022, the series was revealed to be in early development and titled Wonder Man, centered on the character Simon Williams / Wonder Man, with Cretton expected to direct episodes of the series and to develop it with head writer Andrew Guest. In July, Cretton was confirmed as the director of Avengers: The Kang Dynasty for Marvel Studios.

Personal life
In 2016, Cretton married fashion designer Nicola "Nikki" Chapman. They have two children.

Filmography
Film

Television
Passage 10:
The Ferret (film)
The Ferret (French: Le furet) is a 1950 French crime film directed by Raymond Leboursier and starring Jany Holt, Colette Darfeuil and Pierre Renoir. It was based on a novel by Stanislas-André Steeman. It features the character of Inspector Wens, who had appeared in several other films including The Murderer Lives at Number 21. Location shooting took place around Paris including the city's Orly Airport. The film's sets were designed by the art director Roland Quignon.

Synopsis
A mysterious figure signing himself "The Ferret" keeps sending letters to the police, tipping them off about murders that are to be committed around Paris. Among those caught up in the police manhunt is a fraudulent clairvoyant.

Main cast
Jany Holt as Cécile
Colette Darfeuil as Louise Heller
Pierre Renoir as Le docteur Darvel-Juste
Jacques Baumer as Commissaire Hyacinthe
Jean-Jacques Delbo as Ludovic
Pierre Larquey as Monsieur Thiais
Jean Tissier as Monsieur de Thomaz
Jacqueline Delubac as Madame de Lanier
Charles Dechamps as Lecartier
Marguerite Deval as Madame Chapuis
Pierre Jourdan as L'inspecteur Wens