Passage 1:
Coney Island Baby (film)
Coney Island Baby is a 2003 comedy-drama in which film producer Amy Hobby made her directorial debut. Karl Geary wrote the film and Tanya Ryno was the film's producer. The music was composed by Ryan Shore. The film was shot in Sligo, Ireland, which is known locally as "Coney Island".
The film was screened at the Newport International Film Festival. Hobby won the Jury Award for "Best First Time Director".
The film made its premiere television broadcast on the Sundance Channel.

Plot
After spending time in New York City, Billy Hayes returns to his hometown. He wants to get back together with his ex-girlfriend and take her back to America in hopes of opening up a gas station. But everything isn't going Billy's way - the townspeople aren't happy to see him, and his ex-girlfriend is engaged and pregnant. Then, Billy runs into his old friends who are planning a scam.

Cast
Karl Geary - Billy Hayes
Laura Fraser - Bridget
Hugh O'Conor - Satchmo
Andy Nyman - Franko
Patrick Fitzgerald - The Duke
Tom Hickey - Mr. Hayes
Conor McDermottroe - Gerry
David McEvoy - Joe
Thor McVeigh - Magician
Sinead Dolan - Julia

Music
The film's original score was composed by Ryan Shore.

External links
Coney Island Baby (2006) at IMDb
MSN - Movies: Coney Island Baby
Passage 2:
Invasion of the Neptune Men
Invasion of the Neptune Men (宇宙快速船, Uchū Kaisokusen) is a 1961 superhero film produced by Toei Company Ltd. The film stars Sonny Chiba as Iron Sharp (called Space Chief in the U.S. version).The film was released in 1961 in Japan and was later released in 1964 direct to television in the United States. In 1998, the film was featured on an episode of Mystery Science Theater 3000.

Plot
Astronomer Shinichi Tachibana has a secret identity as superhero "Iron Sharp" and has many children as friends. When they are attacked by a group of metallic aliens ("Neptune Men" in English), Iron Sharp drives the aliens away. The resourceful Tachibana helps develop an electric barrier to block the aliens from coming to the Earth.  After several losses by the aliens, they announce that they will invade the Earth, throwing the world into a state of panic. The aliens destroy entire cities with their mothership and smaller fighters. After Iron Sharp destroys multiple enemy ships, Japan fires nuclear missiles at the mothership, destroying it.

Cast
Sonny Chiba as scientist Shinichi Tachibana / Iron Sharp
Kappei Matsumoto as Dr. Tanigawa
Ryuko Minakami as Yōko (Tanigawa's daughter)
Shinjirō Ehara as scientist Yanagida
Mitsue Komiya as scientist Saitō

Style
Invasion of the Neptune Men is part of Japan's tokusatsu genre, which involves science fiction and/or superhero films that feature heavy use of special effects.

Production
Invasion of the Neptune Men was an early film for Sonny Chiba. Chiba started working in Japanese television where he starred in superhero television series in 1960. Chiba continued working back and forth between television and film until the late 1960s when he became a more popular star.

Release
Uchū Kaisokusen was released in Japan on 19 July 1961. The film was not released theatrically in the United States, but it was released directly to American television by Walter Manley on March 20, 1964, dubbed in English and retitled Invasion of the Neptune Men.The film was also released as Space Chief, Space Greyhound and Invasion from a Planet.

Reception and legacy
In later reviews of the film, Bruce Eder gave the film a one-star rating out of five, stating that the film was "the kind of movie that gave Japanese science fiction films a bad name. The low-quality special effects, the non-existent acting, the bad dubbing, and the chaotic plotting and pacing were all of a piece with what critics had been saying, erroneously, about the Godzilla movies for years." The review referred to the film's "cheesy special effects and ridiculous dialogue taking on a sort of so-bad-they're-good charm", and described the film as a "thoroughly memorable (if not necessarily enjoyable, outside of the MST3K continuum) specimen of bad cinema."On October 11, 1997 the film was shown on the movie-mocking television show Mystery Science Theater 3000. In his review of the film, Bruce Eder of AllMovie described the episode as a memorable one, specifically the cast watching the repetitive aerial dogfights between spaceships, and one of the hosts remarking that "Independence Day seems a richly nuanced movie". Criticism of the film included excessive use of WWII stock footage in the action scenes (especially the obviously noticeable shot featuring a picture of Adolf Hitler in one building).In his book Japanese Science Fiction, Fantasy and Horror Films, Stuart Galbraith IV stated that the film "had a few surprises" despite a "woefully familiar script". Galbraith noted that the film was not as over-the-top as Prince of Space and that the opticals in the film were as strong as anything Toho had produced at the time. Galbraith suggested the effects may have been lifted from Toei's The Final War (aka World War III Breaks Out) from 1961.

See also
List of Japanese films of 1961
List of Mystery Science Theater 3000 episodes
List of science fiction films of the 1960s

Notes
Passage 3:
The Third Kiss
The Third Kiss (Spanish: El tercer beso) is a 1942 Argentine romantic drama film directed by Luis César Amadori and starring Pedro López Lagar, Silvia Legrand and Amelia Bence.  At the 1943 Argentine Film Critics Association Awards, Amelia Bence won the  Silver Condor Award for Best Actress for her performance in the film.

Cast
Pedro López Lagar
Silvia Legrand
Amelia Bence
Francisco Álvarez
Billy Days
Domingo Márquez
Gloria Bayardo
Aurelia Ferrer
Rosa Martín
Arturo Bamio
Passage 4:
Lloyd (film)
Lloyd is a 2001 American comedy film. The film was released on May 4, 2001.

Plot
Lloyd is the "class clown." He often gets in trouble with teachers, one of whom is very strict. When he tries to rebel, he is put into a class for "less enthusiastic students." Once there, he joins the other students in the group: Troy, Carla, and Storm. He soon falls in love with the class's newest member, Tracy (Kristin Parker). However, she is taken by storm. When Lloyd talks to his mother, she tells him that he can still win her back by being himself.
The role of Lloyd is played by Todd Bosley. Tom Arnold, a friend of the producers, played a small role.

Cast
Todd Bosley - Lloyd
Brendon Ryan Barrett - Troy
Mary Mara - Joann
Chloe Peterson - Carla
Sammy Elliott - Nathan
Patrick Higgins - Storm
Kristin Parker - Tracy
Tom Arnold - Tom
Taylor Negron - Mr. Weid

Production
The film was shot in Sunnyvale, California, in 1997.

External links
Lloyd at IMDb
Passage 5:
Royal Tramp II
Royal Tramp II is a 1992 Hong Kong film based on Louis Cha's novel The Deer and the Cauldron. The film is a sequel to Royal Tramp, which was released earlier in the same year.

Plot
Having been revealed as the false Empress Dowager, Lung-er returns to the Dragon Sect camp. There, the sect leader reminds her of their mission to support Ng Sam-kwai's, a military general, campaign for the throne before abdicating her title to Lung-er.
Siu-bo lounges at the brothel where he once worked but is then attacked by disciples of the One Arm Nun, an anti-Qing revolutionary figure, before being quickly subdued. When Siu-bo tries to take advantage of them, Ng Ying-hung, Ng Sam-kwai's son, exposes his lies. Scorned and unaware of the stranger's title, Siu-bo sends his men after Ying-Hung, but Lung-er, now disguised as Ying-hung's male bodyguard, easily fends them off.
At the palace, The Emperor, wary of Ng Sam-kwai's intentions, marries off the Princess to Ying-hung and assigns Siu-bo to be the Imperial Inspector General of the wedding march, so that he can keep his eyes on the general's activities. This complicates Siu-bo's relationship with Princess when she tells Siu-bo she's pregnant with his child.
The One Arm Nun and her disciple, Ah Ko, later ambushes the procession. Fighting to a standstill with Lung-er, the assailants escape with Ying-hung and Siu-bo. However, Siu-bo garners some respect from her when he reveals his dual identity as a Heaven and Earth Society commander. Lung-er finally catches up to them with reinforcements at an inn but only manages to rescue Siu-bo. Having been saved by Ying-hung before, Ah Ko elopes with him amid the confusion.
At the Dragon Sect camp, Ying-hung and Fung Sek-fan secretly poisons Lung-er and turn the followers against her. She escapes with Siu-bo but must have sex with a man before dawn, otherwise she will die. However, this will transfer 4/5th of her martial arts' power to whomever she sleeps with. Despite Siu-bo's lecherous personality, Lung-er accepts his blunt honesty as a sign of virtue and chooses to sacrifice her virginity to Siu-bo and becomes his third wife.
When Siu-bo gets back to the Princess, they execute a plan to castrate Ying-hung. With her betrothed no longer able to produce heirs, the Princess is taken by Siu-bo as his fourth wife. Enraged by the end of his family line, Ng Ying-hung prematurely gathers his troops and sets out to wage war with the Emperor. He tasks Fung Sek-fan with killing the Princess and Siu-bo. Though Chan Kan-nam manages to intervene and lets his disciple escape.
Later, the One Arm Nun captures the elopers, Ying-hung and Ah Ko, and offers them to Siu-bo. Siu-bo pardons them and even takes Ah Ko as his fifth wife. Afterward, Fung Sek-fan is promoted when he surrenders Ng Sam-kwai's battle plans and Chan Kan-nam to the Emperor. Given Siu-bo's muddied history with the Heaven and Earth Society, the Emperor tasks him with Chan's execution. Siu-bo's newfound power is difficult for him to control, and Chan helps him master it in time for him to use it against Fung. Siu-bo also uncovers the secret of the 42 Chapters books after burning them in frustration, revealing hidden stones that are left unburned, revealing map coordinates to the location of the treasure all major parties have been attempting to locate.
In order to save his master, Siu-bo defeats Fung with his newly acquired martial arts power after both falling into a hidden cave wherein the treasure is found, and swaps Feng's body with Chan's before the execution to save his master. And just as he was about to escape with his wives and Chan, the Emperor arrives with his troops, having been sold out by Siu-bo's opportunistic friend To-lung who is now involved romantically with Siu-bo's sister. But seeing that they are friends, his sister is in love with Siu-bo, and with Siu-bo bluffing that he's strong enough to demolish the Emperor and his entire army if he wanted, the Emperor lets them go, declaring that Siu-bo has died and no longer exists as far as he's concerned. Siu-bo laughs afterward that the Emperor fell for his bluff.

Cast
Stephen Chow as Wai Siu-bo
Brigitte Lin as Lung-er
Chingmy Yau as Princess Kin-ning
Michelle Reis as Ah Ko/Li Ming-ko
Natalis Chan as To-lung
Damian Lau as Chan Kan-nam
Deric Wan as Hong-hei Emperor
Kent Tong as Ng Ying-hung, Sam-kwai's son
Paul Chun as Ng Sam-kwai
Sandra Ng as Wai Chun-fa
Fennie Yuen as Seung-yee twin
Vivian Chan as Seung-yee twin
Yen Shi-kwan as Fung Sek-fan
Helen Ma as Kau-nan/one-armed Divine nun
Sharla Cheung as Mo Tung-chu / Empress Dowager
Law Lan as founder of Divine Dragon Sect
Tam Suk-moi as Ah Nong
Hoh Choi-chow as Palace guard Wen Shan Lun
Yeung Jing-jing
Wan Seung-lam
Lee Fai
Cheng Ka-sang
Ho Wing-cheung
Kwan Yung
To Wai-wo
Passage 6:
The Wonderful World of Captain Kuhio
The Wonderful World of Captain Kuhio (クヒオ大佐, Kuhio Taisa, lit. "Captain Kuhio") is a 2009 Japanese comedy-crime film, directed by Daihachi Yoshida, based on Kazumasa Yoshida's 2006 biographical novel, Kekkon Sagishi Kuhio Taisa (lit. "Marriage swindler Captain Kuhio"), that focuses on a real-life marriage swindler, who conned over 100 million yen (US$1.2 million) from a number of women between the 1970s and the 1990s.The film was released in Japan on 10 October 2009.

Cast
Masato Sakai - Captain Kuhio
Yasuko Matsuyuki - Shinobu Nagano
Hikari Mitsushima - Haru Yasuoka
Yuko Nakamura - Michiko Sudo
Hirofumi Arai - Tatsuya Nagano
Kazuya Kojima - Koichi Takahashi
Sakura Ando - Rika Kinoshita
Masaaki Uchino - Chief Fujiwara
Kanji Furutachi - Shigeru Kuroda
Reila Aphrodite
Sei Ando

Awards
At the 31st Yokohama Film Festival
Best Actor – Masato Sakai
Best Supporting Actress – Sakura Ando
Passage 7:
The Third Kiss (1919 film)
The Third Kiss is a lost 1919 American silent comedy film directed by Robert G. Vignola, written by Edith M. Kennedy and Heliodore Tenno, and starring Vivian Martin, Harrison Ford, Robert Ellis, Kathleen Kirkham, Thomas Persse, Edna Mae Cooper, and Jane Keckley. It was released on September 14, 1919, by Paramount Pictures.

Plot
As described in a film magazine, Rupert Bawlf (Ellis) is a settlement worker and has done wonders with the tough districts of the town. His wife Cynthia (Kirkham), although she loathes the work, cheerfully helps him because of her great love for him. Missy (Martin), a factory girl, by her knowledge of conditions, is able to help Oliver and he falls in love with her. To protect Bawlf's name from scandal, as mudslinging newspapers are watching, Oliver Cloyne (Ford), a millionaire who is keen on the work Bawlf is doing, persuades Missy to marry him although he is in love, hopelessly, with Mrs. Bawlf. Oliver learns that Missy is a granddaughter of the owner of the factory in which she works, having assumed the role of factory girl to assist in welfare work. After an imitation honeymoon, Oliver and his heiress bride, who is his wife in name only, return home where Rupert and Cynthia Bawlf seek them out. Cynthia, falling ill, goes away for a rest. Rupert persuades Missy to assist him in his welfare work, and when she agrees, he attempts to force his attentions upon her again. She resists, and shows him what a fool he is. While on an inspection tour of a new building, Missy is locked in by a crazed old woman who, as revenge for the death of her daughter in a factory fire, sets fire to the building to kill Missy in the same way. Oliver, first suspecting that Missy has run off with Rupert, learns the truth and rescues Missy from the fire.

Cast
Vivian Martin as Missy
Harrison Ford as Oliver Cloyne
Robert Ellis as Rupert Bawlf
Kathleen Kirkham as Cynthia Bawlf
Thomas Persse as Dr. Paton
Edna Mae Cooper as Gwendolin Finn
Jane Keckley as Mrs. Casey
Passage 8:
Forbidden Daughters
Forbidden Daughters is a 1927 American silent black & white short erotic-drama film directed by prominent nude photographer Albert Arthur Allen. This is the only known movie directed by Allen who, otherwise, was famous by his work as a photographer of nude female models.

Plot
Alva receives news from her long-lost husband, Russell, and goes to Africa in search of him. There, she finds that her husband is being "held prisoner" by a naked native princess, called Loma. Now, in order to bring Russell back home, Alva must show that she's better than the princess.

Cast
Clarice Conwell
Gladys DeLores
Kathryn Kay
Ralph O'Brien
Passage 9:
Rakka (film)
Rakka is a 2017 American-Canadian military science fiction short film made by Oats Studios and  directed by Neill Blomkamp. It was released on YouTube and Steam on 14 June 2017.

Plot
Chapter 1: World
In the near future, Earth will be attacked by technologically superior and highly aggressive reptilian aliens called the Klum (pronounced "klume"). Humanity is nearing extinction with millions dead or enslaved. The Klum transform the Earth in favor of their own ideal living conditions. They do this at first by burning forests and destroying cities. Then they build megastructures that alter the atmosphere by pumping out methane. The gas makes it progressively harder for terrestrial life to breathe. And it warms the climate, which leads to flooding of coastal cities.
The story begins in 2020, from the viewpoint of resistance fighters in Texas, a group of US Army soldiers and many others who have banded together. Most human survivors live underground or among ruins. They have barely enough provisions, weapons, and ammunition. The humans fight by using whatever they can against the primary Klum weapon: an omnipresent nanite in their weaponry, and telepathic control over any human that makes direct eye contact with them.
The resistance makes "brain-barriers" that block this
mind control. The Klum know, however, that a scarcity of materials means a scarcity of brain barriers. They hope, therefore, to win a war of attrition against the human survivors.
Some prisoners are living incubators for the Klum's young, which inevitably kills the victims. Others are dissected. Still other humans are converted into human loudspeakers that urge humans to surrender into "conservatories". Very few humans ever escape.
After the Klum destroy a militia convoy with an airstrike, one of the surviving soldiers witnesses an angel-like being materialize from thin air. The narration describes ″them″ as mankind's saviours.

Chapter 2: Amir & Nosh
Nosh is a tech-savvy pyromaniac and bomb-maker, eking out a living in a scrapyard far from the resistance. The resistance despises Nosh for his murderous glee and demands - giving the sick or suicidal over as bait during his many IED ambushes. They must, however, give in to Nosh's demands to
secure the IEDs and the brain-barriers he makes.
The resistance stumble across Amir, a mute who has escaped from the Klum. He has extensive cybernetics across his head and shoulders. Amid opposition from her lieutenants, the resistance leader, Jasper, releases Amir from her custody into the care of a resistance fighter named Sarah.
Sarah, having lost her daughter to the Klum's experiments, takes a liking to him. She gives Amir food and drink while trying to persuade him to help the resistance fight the Klum by using the precognitive abilities he acquired via the aliens' experiments.

Chapter 3: Siege
Amir recovers physically and mentally. Then, because of his implant, he has a premonition involving a wounded Klum on the run from militia forces.
Sarah pleads with Amir to help the militia officers to stop the genocide. The more she talks to him, the more his eyes change, seeing the premonition of the impending attack more clearly. Amir, still mute, foresees the militia successfully shooting down an alien aircraft, and the pilot is the alien on the run.
Sarah asks Amir if they will be able to learn how to hunt the Klum and teach them how to fear. Unable to answer, he foresees the Klum telekinetically bashing one of the militia soldiers, disconnecting his brain barrier and causing him to be mind-controlled, turning on his comrades, who are forced to kill him.
Sarah tells Amir that he now has the abilities the aliens have and that he is to use them for humanity. Back in the vision, the militia surround the Klum; Jasper orders the militia to cut off its head. The film ends with Sarah urging Amir to use his abilities because he is humanity's last hope.

Cast
Sigourney Weaver as Jasper
Eugene Khumbanyiwa as Amir
Robert Hobbs as Carl
Carly Pope as Sarah
Brandon Auret as Nosh
Mike Huff as Policeman
Owen McCrae as Klum
Connor Page as Child
Jay Anstey as A suicide bomber
Justin Shaw as Man in medical device
Carla Marais as eight-year-old girl
Ryan Angilley as Martinez
Alec Gillis as Militia officer 1
Ruan Coetzee as Militia officer 2
Paul Davies as Militia officer 3
Pieter Jacobz as Militia officer 4
Passage 10:
Delinquent Daughters
Delinquent Daughters, or Accent on Crime, is a 1944 American drama film directed by Albert Herman and starring June Carlson, Fifi D'Orsay and Margia Dean. An exploitation film, it is about a police investigation into the suicide death of a high school girl and the hard-partying teenagers at a party prior to the incident.

Plot
Both family and community are shaken by the unexpected, tragic suicide of teenage girl Lucille Dillerton. Her friends at high school, June Thompson, Francine Van Pelt, and Sally Higgins, are devastated and discuss among them the reasons for their friend to jump off the pier into the river like she did. Lucille's death is investigated by the police, to rule out any alternative causes to Lucille's death, and in charge of the investigation is Lt. Hanahan. He arrives to the high school, and the principal, Mr. Moffatt, is ordered to call the girls into his office for questioning by the police officer. One of the girls, Sally, doesn't want to cooperate and answer the questions.
Sally gets a ride home with her boyfriend Jerry Sykes, in his car after school. They stop outside of a department store on the way, parking right outside the building. Jerry goes into the store and robs it, shooting the owner in the process. Jerry speeds away from the crime scene with the police right behind him. With his careless driving, Jerry hits a pedestrian by the road outside of Merry-Go-Round, a club and teenage hangout. The club is owned by a gangster named Nick Gordon and his mistress Mimi, and the gangster tells Jerry to hide the car on his grounds. Nick lets Jerry and Sally come into his club to hide from the police. Hanahan arrives on the scene looking for Jerry and Sally, but doesn't find them. Hanahan speaks to a news reporter on the street and tells him about what happened. Soon after, it is all over the news that a crime wave caused by juvenile delinquency has hit the town, and that it is caused by the loosening of family bonds.
Sally meets up with one of the other friends, June, at the club. June is concerned that her father, Mr. Thompson, will start to worry since she is out so late. Sally calls June's parents and pretends to be her own mother, inviting June to stay the night at the Higgins' house. A while later June's boyfriend, Rocky Webster, comes to the club and sells his father's gun to Nick for five dollars. Nick then offers to drive June and Sally home. When June arrives home, her father is furious. He has talked to the real Mrs. Higgins and subsequently discovered that June has lied to him about the sleep-over. Mr. Thompson throws June out of the house, after first slapping her.
Feeling dejected and alone in the world, June walks around town aimlessly. Eventually she comes down to the river and is discovered by her boyfriend Rocky. In a desperate act to give consolation, and afraid that June is contemplating suicide, Rocky asks her to marry him. Before she can answer, Hanahan appears and arrests them both on the spot. Sally has met up with Jerry and they are on their way down to the river too, when they see Hanahan and their friends. Jerry pushes Hanahan into the river and June and Rocky escape. Jerry asks them to join him in robbing a nearby gas station, but they refuse to do it. Jerry and Sally go to the gas station together and hold it up. Since Jerry thinks they don't get enough money, they rob a lunch counter as well. Sally and Jerry split up after that, and after Jerry has left, Sally alone robs a motorist.
Hanahan manages to get up from the river, and still wet he finds Rocky and June, and takes them into custody. They are placed in front of the honorable Judge Craig for counseling. Hanahan tells the judge about June's father's violent behaviour and the judge cuts them both some slack, and decides to summon all the teenagers and their parents for a meeting. When they are all gathered, the judge lectures the parents on their responsibilities as such, and warns them about abusing their children.
Both June and Rocky benefit from the judge's lecture. Rocky begins to work in the evenings after school, trying to save up to buy himself a car. The effect is not the same on Jerry and Sally though. Nick hires Jerry on his gangster payroll, and uses him to rob a money transport. Jerry gets the gun Nick bought from Rocky, and Jerry uses Sally to drive the getaway car. The robbery doesn't go as planned and results in a deadly shootout between Jerry and the men guarding the transport. Sally drives away with Nick, leaving Jerry to fight on his own, and he is shot down. When the police arrive on the scene, they find Jerry lifeless, with Mr. Webster's gun in his hand. The police question Mr. Webster about the gun, and Rocky admits to selling it to Nick.
Hanahan brings in Nick's girl, Mimi, to the station for questioning. He tells her that the transport robbery was conducted by a man and a woman. Mimi thinks it was Nick and Sally who did it, and in a spur of jealousy she gives away both Nick and Sally. Hanahan drives off to arrest Nick, and Rocky and June follow in Rocky's car. Mimi rushes back to the club to warn Nick, regretting that she told the police about him. Back at the club Mimi bumps into Sally. Mimi has a go at Sally, slapping her, but Nick intervenes and knocks her out. Nick takes Sally with him in his car. Rocky realizes that Nick is getting away from the police, so he takes a short cut and manages to force Nick's car off the road and over a cliff. Nick is killed in the crash, and the town decides to remake the club to a wholesome place for teenagers to hang.

Cast
June Carlson as June Thompson
Mary Bovard as Betty
Joe Devlin as Lt. Hanahan
Fifi D'Orsay as Mimi
Teala Loring as Sally
Margia Dean as Francine Van Pelt
Johnny Duncan as Rocky Webster
Jimmy Zaner as Jerry
Joe Dawson as Nick Gordon
Frank McGlynn, Sr. as Judge Craig
Parker Gee as Steve Cronin
Warren Mills as Roy Ford

See also
List of films in the public domain in the United States