Passage 1:
I'll Say It
"I'll Say It" is a song written by American musician Adam Schlesinger and recorded by comedian Kathy Griffin, released as the theme song for her show, Kathy. It was additionally used as the introduction music to her 2012 comedy special "Kennedie Center on Hers" and continued to be used in future specials. On August 20, 2012, Griffin released a seven track EP containing dance remixes of "I'll Say It".

Music video
The music video begins in the day with Kathy Griffin in her house preparing her make-up. It shows her daily routine visiting her dogs, leaving the house and driving to a theater, ending with her on stage in her signature pose. The scenes are interlaced with various clips of Los Angeles, California.

Charts
Passage 2:
Kathy Griffin
Kathleen Mary Griffin (born November 4, 1960) is an American comedian and actress who has starred in television comedy specials and has released comedy albums. In 2007 and 2008, Griffin won Primetime Emmy Awards for her reality show Kathy Griffin: My Life on the D-List. She has also appeared in supporting roles in films.
Griffin was born in Oak Park, Illinois. In 1978, she moved to Los Angeles, where she studied drama at the Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute and became a member of the improvisational comedy troupe The Groundlings. In the 1990s, Griffin began performing as a stand-up comedian and appeared as a guest star on television shows, including a supporting role on the NBC sitcom Suddenly Susan (1996–2000).
The Bravo reality show Kathy Griffin: My Life on the D-List (2005–2010) became a ratings hit for the network and earned her two Emmy Awards for Outstanding Reality Program. Griffin has released six comedy albums, all of which received Grammy Award nominations. Her first album For Your Consideration (2008) made her the first female comedian to debut at the top of the Billboard Top Comedy Albums chart. In 2009, she released her autobiography Official Book Club Selection: A Memoir According to Kathy Griffin. After being nominated for six years in a row for the Grammy for Best Comedy Album, she won the award in 2014.
Griffin has recorded numerous standup comedy specials for HBO and Bravo. For the latter network, she has recorded sixteen television specials, breaking the Guinness World record for the number of aired television specials on any network. In 2011, she also became the first comedian to have four specials televised in a year. Griffin is an LGBTQ activist who supports same-sex marriage and the repeal of "Don't ask, don't tell". She has participated in two United Service Organizations (USO) tours. Griffin is known for her conversational style and statements about celebrities, religion and sexuality, including holding a mask stylized as Donald Trump's severed head in 2017, which provoked a United States Secret Service investigation and later became the basis of her concert film A Hell of a Story (2019).

Early life
Kathleen Mary Griffin was born on November 4, 1960, in the Chicago suburb Oak Park, Illinois, to Mary Margaret "Maggie" Griffin (née Corbally, 1920 – 2020) and John Patrick Griffin (1916 – 2007), both of whom were first-generation Irish-Americans. Kathy Griffin has four older siblings; Kenny (died in the 2000s), Joyce (died 2017), Gary (died 2014), and John. Griffin described herself during her early years as "a kid who needed to talk, all the time". Her brother Gary and her sister Joyce both died from cancer.She would often visit her neighbors to tell them stories about her family; she has referred to those visits as her first live shows where she learned "the power of juicy material". After most of her siblings had moved, Griffin developed a binge eating disorder. In her 2009 autobiography Official Book Club Selection, Griffin said she "still suffers [from food issues]" but has learned to "deal with them".Griffin's eldest brother Kenny was a drug addict and homeless at various times; she said she was "afraid of him until the moment he died" because of his violent, abusive nature. When Kathy was seven, Kenny—who was thirty—would climb into her bed and whisper into her ears; Kathy did not tell her parents until she was in her twenties, at which point he admitted his pedophilia to them.At elementary school, Griffin began to develop a dislike for organized religion because of the punishments she and other "vulnerable" students received from the nuns. At her high school, she sought refuge in musical theater, playing roles such as Rosemary in How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying and Hodel in Fiddler on the Roof. During her senior year, she wanted to become a professional actor. Her first appearance on television was as an extra on a Chicago White Sox commercial, and she was signed with several Chicago talent agencies. At 18, Griffin persuaded her parents to move to Los Angeles to help her become famous.At 19, Griffin attended a performance by the improvisational group The Groundlings. She said, "I thought this is where I want to be. This is the greatest thing in the world."

Career
Stand-up comedy, television and film
Griffin began performing in the early 1990s in the Los Angeles improvisational comedy troupe The Groundlings. She went on to perform standup comedy and became part of the alternative comedy scene in Los Angeles. With Janeane Garofalo, she created a standup act called "Hot Cup of Talk", which became the title of her 1998 solo HBO special. Griffin earned a number of television and film credits during the 1990s. She appeared in Julie Brown's Medusa: Dare to Be Truthful, a Showtime parody of the 1991 Madonna film Truth or Dare. Griffin twice appeared as Susan Klein, a reporter on NBC's The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air; it was her television sitcom debut.On June 12, 2008, Griffin hosted the first Bravo! Canada A-List Awards, which included a parody of  the "wardrobe malfunction"  experienced by Janet Jackson in the Super Bowl halftime show in 2004. She also hosted the 2009 Bravo A-List Awards, which aired on April 15, 2009, and her Bravo special Kathy Griffin: She'll Cut a Bitch aired beforehand. Shout! Factory released an extended version of the show on DVD in early 2010.On September 8, 2009, Ballantine Books published Griffin's memoir, titled Official Book Club Selection: A Memoir According to Kathy Griffin, which debuted at number one on The New York Times Best Seller list. A week prior, she released her second comedy album Suckin' It for the Holidays; it was her second bid to win a Grammy Award. It was announced on November 3, 2009, that Griffin was to host ABC's new show Let's Dance, on which celebrity contestants would have re-enacted famous dance routines while competing for a $250,000 grand prize for their favorite charity.Griffin hosted CNN's New Year's Eve broadcast on December 31, 2009, along with Anderson Cooper. As Cooper talked about the Balloon boy hoax, Griffin said "fucking". Although Griffin was rumored to have been banned from future CNN broadcasts, she co-hosted the show with Cooper until 2017. In 2017, CNN terminated Griffin from its New Year's Eve Broadcast after Griffin showed pictures of herself holding a bloody, model decapitated head resembling President Donald Trump. Griffin has also guest-starred in a 2009 episode of Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, playing a lesbian activist.Since the 2008 presidential election, Griffin has made frequent jokes about Republican vice-presidential contender Sarah Palin and her family. On US television program Glee, Griffin parodied Palin posing as a judge at a regional singing competition. Griffin also made fun of Christine O'Donnell in the show by stating, "Before we start, I would like to say I am not a witch".On January 7, 2012, it was announced that Griffin would host a weekly one-hour talk show on the channel Kathy, which would consist of standup routines, "rant about pop culture", and celebrity interviews. On April 8, 2013, during a live standup performance in Cincinnati, Ohio, Griffin announced that her show would not be renewed for a third season. She later confirmed it on her Twitter account. According to FOX 411, Bravo was planning to film several comedy specials starring Griffin after the show ended.On June 13, 2014, it was announced that Griffin would host the 41st Daytime Emmy Awards. For the first time in the event's four-decade history, the show bypassed a network television airing for a live online streaming media event. The ceremony took place on June 22, 2014. Griffin's performance was well received by critics.

Guest co-host of The View
Kathy Griffin served as a co-host of The View from May 2007 to September 2007, replacing the recently departed Rosie O'Donnell. According to Griffin she is banned from The View after talking about the show on her televised comedy special, Kathy Griffin: Straight to Hell.
She declined to discuss the ban on Access Hollywood As of August 2009, Griffin had been un-banned from The View and was a guest on September 18, 2009, and June 15, 2010. In an interview on The Talk, Griffin stated she has been re-banned from The View due to an argument with its co-host Elisabeth Hasselbeck.

Laugh Your Head Off World Tour 2017–2018
In August 2017, Griffin announced a worldwide comedy tour. The title "Laugh Your Head Off" was a reference to her depiction of an effigy of U.S. President Donald Trump's severed head. The tour visited major cities in Singapore, Australia, Germany, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and many more European, and Asian cities. Several shows sold out within minutes of going on sale, leading to Griffin adding several shows to the lineup. She continued with a North America leg of the tour, commencing May 23, 2018, in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, and including both Radio City Music Hall and Carnegie Hall in New York City.

Controversies
Various talk shows bans
Griffin said she was banned from appearing on several television shows including The Tonight Show with Jay Leno and The View. She was re-banned from The View after making a joke about Barbara Walters. She says Ellen's producers told her they cannot have her "trashing celebrities" but she appeared as a guest on The Ellen DeGeneres Show on September 11, 2007. Griffin made a joke during a 2005 E! televised event saying eleven-year-old actor Dakota Fanning had entered drug rehabilitation.

Emmy Awards controversy
The second season of My Life on the D-List, which premiered June 2006, earned Griffin the 2007 Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Reality Program, non-competition. She received it during the Creative Arts Emmy Awards, which was hosted by Carlos Mencia and aired on E! in September. Griffin said,

Now, a lot of people come up here and thank Jesus for this award. I want you to know that no one had less to do with this award than Jesus. He didn't help me a bit. If it was up to him, Cesar Millan would be up here with that damn dog. So all I can say is suck it, Jesus, this award is my God now!
Griffin later said she meant this remark as a satire of celebrities who thank Jesus for their awards, especially artists who are controversial in their speech and actions, rather than as a slight on Jesus. The academy said her "offensive remarks will not be part of the E! telecast on Saturday night". Griffin said she was fired from an appearance on Hannah Montana because of her Emmy acceptance speech.

Ban from Apollo Theater
In a July 2009 episode of My Life on the D-List, Griffin used profanity in an Octomom joke during her routine at New York's Apollo Theater. Griffin said she received a letter banning her from the venue.

Depiction of Donald Trump
On May 30, 2017, Griffin posted a video of herself holding "a mask styled to look like the severed, bloody head" of then U.S. President Donald Trump, in an obvious parody of the classical myth of Perseus and Medusa. It was posted on her Instagram and Twitter accounts. She wrote: "I caption this 'there was blood coming out of his eyes, blood coming out of his ... wherever'", referencing a comment Trump had made about Megyn Kelly. The video was from a session with photographer Tyler Shields, who is known for producing "shocking" imagery. Griffin later took down the image and apologized for posting the image, saying she went too far and adding, "I beg for your forgiveness".On June 2, 2017, an attorney for Griffin, Lisa Bloom, stated, "Like many edgy works of artistic expression, the photo could be interpreted different ways. But Griffin never imagined that it could be misinterpreted as a threat of violence against Trump. That was never what she intended. She has never threatened or committed an act of violence against anyone." Griffin said the Trump family was "trying to ruin my life forever".In May 2017, Griffin was dropped by Squatty Potty as a spokesperson. CNN fired her from its New Year's Eve broadcast with Anderson Cooper. Cooper said, "For the record, I am appalled by the photo shoot Kathy Griffin took part in. It is clearly disgusting and completely inappropriate." All of Griffin's remaining scheduled tour dates were canceled by their venues. During an interview on Australian television in August 2017, Griffin talked about the photo, saying, "Stop acting like my little picture is more important than talking about the actual atrocities that the president of the United States is committing". In November 2017, she appeared on Skavlan, where she said, "I take that apology back by the way. I take it back big time". Griffin said she had received a lot of bad advice at the time.On October 28, 2017, Griffin uploaded a YouTube video titled "Kathy Griffin: A Hell of a Story", which is about the backlash she received for the Trump photo controversy. It was the basis for her A Hell of a Story concert film. She said she was under a federal investigation by the Justice Department for two months and was on the No Fly List during that time. She also said she was put on the Interpol list, the Five Eyes list, and had been detained at every airport during her Laugh Your Head Off World Tour.On November 4, 2020 (her 60th birthday and the day after the 2020 United States presidential election), Griffin once again posted a photo of her posing with a model of Donald Trump's bloody, decapitated head.

Twitter suspension
On November 6, 2022, Griffin was suspended from Twitter for impersonating Elon Musk. Griffin used his profile photo and changed her name on the service, tweeting under his name imploring people to vote for Democrats in the upcoming midterm elections and encouraging them to retweet and spread her post. She also posted that she, posing as Musk, had decided to vote blue to support women's rights. Musk tweeted the same day that anyone impersonating a public figure would be permanently suspended unless the account was clearly marked as parody. On the next day, Griffin posted on her deceased mother's Twitter account, calling Musk an "asshole". She further challenged the site's policy that she had used her Twitter profile for impersonation. Musk tweeted sardonically in reply to another tweet, "Actually she was suspended for impersonating a comedian." On November 18, Elon Musk announced that her account has been reinstated due to new rules concerning "negative/hate tweets".

Style of humor
Griffin developed her love of popular culture through her immediate and extended family, who were frequently commenting about the latest news. She said; "I may have been into The Brady Bunch like every other kid, but I also wanted to watch John Lennon and Yoko Ono on The Dick Cavett Show, and every minute of the Watergate hearings. It was
fear of the dinner table that got me hooked." She has also named her mother Maggie as influential in her consumption of pop culture, calling her "the ideal audience for the Hollywood dish". Griffin named the character Rhoda Morgenstern of 1970s sitcom The Mary Tyler Moore Show as an influence.Griffin established her career with candid observations of everyday life and her dating experiences, later focusing on mocking celebrities; her act currently consists of embellished stories involving celebrities. Griffin hopes people understand that no malice is intended by her humor. "I'm genuinely a fan of most of the people I trash in the act", she said; "I really, really try and focus on making fun of people for their behavior. I'm not so into making fun of someone for the way they look, or something that's out of their control."Griffin is sometimes the object of her own humor, particularly with regard to her D-list status. She portrays herself as a Hollywood outsider and has a group of close celebrity friends such as Rosie O'Donnell, Joan Rivers, Jerry Seinfeld, Gloria Estefan, and Lance Bass. Her longtime friendship with Bass was the catalyst for a feud between Griffin and gossip blogger Perez Hilton.In 2007, Griffin commented on her aversion to making fun of celebrity friends; "There's nothing I won't do, but on the other hand I'm full of shit because that changes". Griffin and Hilton ended their feud after the death of Griffin's father, and Hilton appeared on an episode of Griffin's show in 2007.

LGBT rights and political advocacy
Griffin is a supporter for LGBT rights, including same-sex marriage. She has protested with fellow proponents in West Hollywood, California, and included the footage from protests on her reality show Kathy Griffin: My Life on the D-List. Her mother is also a supporter of LGBT rights and is seen on the same show protesting alongside her daughter. Prior to the Proposition 8 ballot results, Griffin volunteered for the Los Angeles Gay and Lesbian Center's "Vote for Equality" campaign, going door-to-door asking Los Angeles residents for their opinion of LGBT marriage rights.In March 2010, Griffin helped organize a rally in Washington, D.C., to advocate the repeal of "Don't ask, don't tell". She stated she organized the rally after meeting with several closeted gay people serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. Griffin held meetings with several Members of Congress to encourage its repeal; she also organized a rally in Freedom Plaza.Griffin caused controversy when she confronted Republican Congresswoman Michele Bachmann over her views on homosexuality at the 2010 Radio and Television Correspondents' Association Dinner; according to Griffin, she asked Bachmann "were you born a bigot or did you grow into it", a reference to Bachmann's belief homosexuality is strictly environmental. Griffin said Bachmann replied, "That's a good question, I'll have to think about that". Bachmann's office confirmed the exchange but said Griffin confronted Bachmann after Bachmann approached Griffin to compliment her appearance.Griffin is a long-time supporter of the Aid for AIDS annual fundraiser Best in Drag Show in Los Angeles, and hosted the opening of the show for more than five years. In November 2009, Aid For AIDS presented Kathy Griffin with an AFA Angel Award at their silver anniversary celebration.Griffin is a long-time critic of Sarah Palin and has made fun of Palin's daughter, Bristol Palin, using the Palin family as material for her comedy routines. In March 2011, Sarah Palin responded to Griffin by calling her a "bully". In her reality television show, Griffin visited the Palin family home in Wasilla, Alaska, and invited Palin to attend her stand-up show in Anchorage, Alaska. Griffin has also poked fun at Willow Palin as a result of Palin's Facebook statements on homosexuality.In 2020, Griffin hosted the Str8Up Gay Porn Awards.

Personal life
Griffin  is an atheist. Speaking to Sacramento's Outword Magazine, Griffin said: " ...I think I'm getting more atheist because of the way the country is getting more into bible-thumping". She also describes herself as a "non-believer". In her book Official Book Club Selection: A Memoir According to Kathy Griffin, Griffin said that while in high school, she fell away from the Roman Catholic Church. She considered becoming a Unitarian but was not sure what that would involve. On March 9, 2008, Kathy Griffin became an ordained minister with the Universal Life Church.In a 2006 interview, Griffin said she does not drink alcohol.Griffin is an opponent of LASIK eye surgery, having had a series of operations that left her partially blind in one eye with a visible eyeball deformity.Griffin's only sister, Joyce Patricia Griffin, died in September 2017, from an undisclosed form of cancer. Kathy had shaved her head in solidarity with her in late July. Her brother Gary died of esophageal cancer in 2014. Her estranged eldest brother, Kenny, died in October 2001 in their mother's arms.Her father, John Patrick Griffin, died of heart failure on February 17, 2007; he was 91 years old. The episode related to his death was aired on June 19, 2007. Her mother, Maggie Griffin, who was featured in her reality show, died on March 17, 2020. In a post on her social media accounts, Griffin stated, "I am gutted. My best friend. I am shaking. I won't ever be prepared. I'm so grateful you guys got to be part of her life. You knew her. You loved her. She knew it. Oh, and OF COURSE she went on St. Patrick's Day."She placed 17th on Oxygen's 2007 list of "The 50 Funniest Women Alive". In 2009, a Golden Palm Star on the Palm Springs, California, Walk of Stars was dedicated to her.In August 2021, Griffin announced that she had been diagnosed with lung cancer, despite not being a smoker, and needed to have half of her left lung removed. She underwent surgery the same month.In April 2023, Griffin revealed she was diagnosed with an "extreme case" of PTSD.

Marriage and relationships
Griffin married computer administrator Matt Moline in 2001, after being introduced by Moline's sister, television producer Rebecca Moline. They divorced in May 2006. On Larry King Live, Griffin accused Moline of stealing $72,000 from her; Matt Moline did not respond to the allegation publicly but stated he was saddened by it.In July 2007, rumors that Griffin was dating Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak circulated. Griffin and Wozniak attended the 2007 Emmy Awards together. On Tom Green's House Tonight on February 6, 2008, Griffin confirmed her relationship with Wozniak. Wozniak and Griffin served as King and Queen of the Humane Society of Silicon Valley Fur Ball on April 5, 2008, in Santa Clara, California. In June 2008, it was confirmed that Griffin and Wozniak were no longer dating.On August 9, 2009, Griffin attended the Teen Choice Awards with Levi Johnston and subsequently interviewed him on Larry King Live. In the interview, Griffin and Johnston joked that they were in a serious relationship.On March 7, 2011, while appearing on The Howard Stern Show, Griffin announced she was romantically involved with actor and former NFL practice-squad player Isaiah Mustafa. Mustafa later stated he was single.In the same interview, she stated the previous July, she had ended a four-year relationship with a man she did not identify but said he is "a regular guy with a regular job", and that it was a "messy breakup". It was later revealed the man is Griffin's tour manager, who had appeared on several seasons of My Life on the D List.From 2012 until November 2018, Griffin was in a relationship with marketing executive Randy Bick. They reconciled in April 2019. She resided in the Hollywood Hills from 2004 to 2016. She has resided in Bel Air since. Griffin married Bick at her home on January 1, 2020, in a ceremony officiated by comedian Lily Tomlin.

Filmography
Film
Television
Other
Stand-up specials
Discography
On June 10, 2008, Griffin released a comedy CD titled For Your Consideration. The disc was recorded at the ETK Theatre at the Grand Theatre Center For The Arts in Tracy, California on February 17, 2008. Griffin stated she decided to release the CD to try to win a Grammy award.On August 25, 2009, Griffin released a second comedy album, Suckin' It for the Holidays, in another bid for a Grammy.Griffin received her third Grammy nomination for Kathy Griffin: Does the Bible Belt in 2010,.On May 4, 2012, the full length version of "I'll Say It", the theme song of her show Kathy, was released to iTunes as a single.
On August 20, 2012, Griffin released a seven-track EP containing dance remixes of "I'll Say It".

Bibliography
Official Book Club Selection: A Memoir According to Kathy Griffin. Ballantine Books. 2009. ISBN 978-0345518569.
Kathy Griffin's Celebrity Run-Ins: My A-Z Index. Flatiron Books. 2016. ISBN 978-1250115638.

Awards and nominations
Primetime Emmy Awards
Emmy Awards source:
Grammy Awards
Grammy Awards source:
GLAAD Media Awards

PGA Awards

Gracie Awards
Passage 3:
Bernie Bonvoisin
Bernard Bonvoisin (French pronunciation: ​[bɛʁnaʁ bɔ̃vwazɛ̃]), known as Bernie Bonvoisin (French pronunciation: ​[bɛʁni bɔ̃vwazɛ̃], born 9 July 1956 in Nanterre, Hauts-de-Seine), is a French hard rock singer and film director. He is best known for having been the singer of Trust.
He was one of the best friends of Bon Scott the singer of AC/DC and together they recorded the song "Ride On" which was one of the last songs by Bon Scott.

External links
Bernie Bonvoisin at IMDb
Passage 4:
Ruth Lowe
Ruth Lowe (August 12, 1914 – January 4, 1981) was a Canadian pianist and songwriter. She composed the first Billboard top 80 song "I'll Never Smile Again".

Early life
Born in Toronto but raised in Glendale, California, Lowe returned to her birth country of Canada as a young woman and began working as a pianist. In 1936, Lowe was working in the 'Song Shop' in Toronto when Ina Ray Hutton brought her all-female band (the Melodears) to town. Her piano player had taken ill, and Hutton was frantically trying to locate a good-looking blonde lady replacement. Lowe auditioned, and became the regular pianist in Ina Ray's band. At age 23 in 1938, Lowe married Harold Cohen, a Chicago music publicist. It was a happy marriage that only lasted one year until Cohen's death during an operation in 1939. In her deep grief, Lowe returned to live in Toronto. In her apartment, she composed "I'll Never Smile Again".

Songwriter
The song "I'll Never Smile Again" was first heard on the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation's (CBC) radio program Music By Faith, in an arrangement by Canadian musician Percy Faith, who would soon go on to fame in the US and the world. Approximately a year later, Lowe passed a copy of the tune to a guitarist in the Tommy Dorsey band, Carmen Mastren, hoping to have Dorsey hear the tune. Dorsey initially passed on the song, giving it to Glenn Miller, but then had it arranged for his young singer, Frank Sinatra, and the Pied Pipers. It was an early, major hit song for Sinatra. Lowe wrote the lyrics for another Frank Sinatra hit, "Put Your Dreams Away (For Another Day)". She and her son Tom Sandler wrote the song "Take Your Sins to the River" for The Travellers.

Personal life and legacy
In 1945, Lowe married Nathan Sandler and the union produced two sons, Tommy and Stephen.Lowe died of cancer in 1981. "I'll Never Smile Again" was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1982.In 2020, Until I Smile at You: How One Girl’s Heartbreak Electrified Frank Sinatra’s Fame!, a biography written by Peter Jennings with Tom Sandler, Lowe’s son, was published by Castle Carrington Publishing.In 2021, Ruth's Wonderful Song, a children's book biography by Jennings, was published by Tellwell Talent.
Passage 5:
Caspar Babypants
Caspar Babypants is the stage name of children's music artist Chris Ballew, who is also the vocalist and bassist of The Presidents of the United States of America.

History
Ballew's first brush with children's music came in 2002, when he recorded and donated an album of traditional children's songs to the nonprofit Program for Early Parent Support titled "PEPS Sing A Long!" Although that was a positive experience for him, he did not consider making music for families until he met his wife, collage artist Kate Endle. Her art inspired Ballew to consider making music that "sounded like her art looked" as he has said. Ballew began writing original songs and digging up nursery rhymes and folk songs in the public domain to interpret and make his own. The first album, Here I Am!, was recorded during the summer of 2008 and released in February 2009.
Ballew began to perform solo as Caspar Babypants in the Seattle area in January 2009. Fred Northup, a Seattle-based comedy improvisor, heard the album and offered to play as his live percussionist.  Northrup also suggested his frequent collaborator Ron Hippe as a keyboard player. "Frederick Babyshirt" and "Ronald Babyshoes" were the Caspar Babypants live band from May 2009 to April 2012. Both Northup and Hippe appear on some of his recordings but since April 2012 Caspar Babypants has exclusively performed solo. The reasons for the change were to include more improvisation in the show and to reduce the sound levels so that very young children and newborns could continue to attend without being overstimulated. 
Ballew has made two albums of Beatles covers as Caspar Babypants. Baby Beatles! came out in September 2013 and Beatles Baby! came out in September 2015.
Ballew runs the Aurora Elephant Music record label, books shows, produces, records, and masters the albums himself. Distribution for the albums is handled by Burnside Distribution in Portland, Oregon.
Caspar Babypants has released a total of 17 albums. The 17th album, BUG OUT!, was released on May 1, 2020. His album FLYING HIGH! was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Children's Album. All 17 of the albums feature cover art by Ballew's wife, Kate Endle.
"FUN FAVORITES!" and "HAPPY HITS!" are two vinyl-only collections of hit songs that Caspar Babypants has released in the last couple of years.

Discography
AlbumsPEPS (2002)
Here I Am! (Released 03/17/09) Special guests: Jen Wood, Fysah Thomas
More Please! (Released 12/15/09) Special guests: Fred Northup, Ron Hippe
This Is Fun! (Released 11/02/10)  Special guests: Fred Northup, Ron Hippe, Krist Novoselic, Charlie Hope
Sing Along! (Released 08/16/11) Special guests: Fred Northup, Ron Hippe, "Weird Al" Yankovic, Stone Gossard, Frances England, Rachel Loshak
Hot Dog! (Released 04/17/12) Special guests: Fred Northup, Ron Hippe, Rachel Flotard (Visqueen)
I Found You! (Released 12/18/12) Special guests: Steve Turner (Mudhoney), Rachel Flotard (Visqueen), John Richards
Baby Beatles! (Released 09/15/13)
Rise And Shine! (Released 09/16/14)
Night Night! (Released 03/17/15)
Beatles Baby! (Released 09/18/2015)
Away We Go! (Released 08/12/2016)
Winter Party! (Released 11/18/16)
Jump For Joy! (Released 08/18/17)
Sleep Tight! (Released 01/19/18)
Keep It Real! (Released 08/17/18)
Best Beatles! (Released 03/29/19)
Flying High! (Released 08/16/19)
Bug Out! (released 05/1/20)
Happy Heart! (Released 11/13/20)
Easy Breezy! (Released 11/05/21)AppearancesMany Hands: Family Music for Haiti CD (released 2010) – Compilation of various artists
Songs Stories And Friends: Let's Go Play – Charlie Hope (released 2011) – vocals on Alouette
Shake It Up, Shake It Off (released 2012) – Compilation of various artists
Keep Hoping Machine Running – Songs Of Woody Guthrie (released 2012) – Compilation of various artists
Apple Apple – The Harmonica Pocket (released 2013) – vocals on Monkey Love
Simpatico – Rennee and Friends (released 2015) – writer and vocals on I Am Not Afraid
Sundrops – The Harmonica Pocket (released 2015) – vocals on Digga Dog Kid
Passage 6:
Say It Ain't So
"Say It Ain't So" is a song by American rock band Weezer. It was released as the third and final single from the band's self-titled 1994 debut album on May 15, 1995. Written by frontman Rivers Cuomo, the song came to be after he had all the music finished and one line, "Say it ain't so". Cuomo made a connection to an incident in high school where he came home and saw a bottle of beer in the fridge. He believed his mother and father's marriage ended because his father was an alcoholic, and this made him fear the marriage between his mother and step-father would end this way as well."Say It Ain't So" is widely considered one of the band's best songs. In 2015, Loudwire ranked the song number three on their list of the 10 greatest Weezer songs, and in 2021, Kerrang ranked the song number two on their list of the 20 greatest Weezer songs. In 2008, Rolling Stone ranked "Say It Ain't So" number 72 on their list of "The 100 Greatest Guitar Songs of All Time." Pitchfork included the song at number 10 on its "Top 200 Tracks of the 1990s".

Composition
"Say It Ain't So" is an alternative rock and emo song that lasts a duration of 4 minutes, 18 seconds. According to the sheet music published at Musicnotes.com by Hal Leonard Music, it is written in the time signature of common time, with a moderate rock tempo of 76 beats per minute. "Say It Ain't So" is composed in the key of C minor (Cm), while Rivers Cuomo's vocal range spans two octaves, from the low-note of B♭3 to the high-note of B♭5. The song has a basic sequence of Cm7–Gadd♯9–A♭–E♭ in the verses and interludes, changes to C5–G5–A♭5–E♭5 at the chorus and follows B♭5–B♭5/A–E♭5–G♭5 during the bridge as its chord progression.

Music video
The music video for "Say It Ain't So", directed by Sophie Muller, met with less success than the previous two Weezer videos directed by Spike Jonze, but the song still successfully climbed to the top 10 of the Modern Rock Tracks chart. As noted in the Weezer DVD collection Video Capture Device and the slip cover of the re-released special edition of the group's debut album, the band filmed the music video at the house where the band used to rehearse and record. The video also features a cameo by the band's webmaster/band photographer/archivist and close friend for many years, Karl Koch. A small poster of Mercyful Fate/King Diamond frontman King Diamond is visible several times throughout the video, most clearly during the final chorus, just as Rivers Cuomo turns his mic around.

Song mixes
Two mixes of the song exist. The original album pressings had a mix with slightly different sounding drums, bass and no guitar feedback. However, when the band released the single, the mix that kept the guitar feedback in the song was used. The band liked this mix so much that the members asked for it to replace the version on the album, after the album had sold 3 million copies. The album now features the version with the feedback. The deluxe version features both mixes.

Track listing
Standard CD, 10-inch, and cassette single
"Say It Ain't So" (remix) – 4:17
"No One Else" (live and acoustic) – 3:15
"Jamie" (live and acoustic) – 3:53All live acoustic tracks were recorded on 99X in Atlanta, Georgia.

Personnel
Rivers Cuomo – lead vocals, lead and rhythm guitar
Matt Sharp – bass, backing vocals
Brian Bell – backing vocals
Patrick Wilson – drums

Charts
Certifications
Release history
Covers
The band Further Seems Forever covered the song on the Weezer tribute album Rock Music: A Tribute to Weezer. An episode of "One Tree Hill" featured a cover by MoZella, Wakey!Wakey!, and Juliana Hatfield. Deftones, the Sleeping, Young Guns, Finch, Real Estate and Dashboard Confessional have also covered the song live. Asher Roth sampled the song for his debut rap single "I Love College". After the song leaked onto the internet, Rivers Cuomo reportedly refused to clear the sample, which prompted Roth to debut a remixed version of his song as his official debut single. Canadian Hip hop artist K-OS has also covered "Say It Ain't So" for his live EP "Much Music Presents: k-os Live", featuring vocals from Benjamin Kowalewicz of Billy Talent in 2011. Foster the People also covered the song in August 2011, after Weezer did a version of "Pumped Up Kicks". Chiptune artist Inverse Phase parodied the song on a Commodore 64, titling it "Say It Ain't Sixty-FO" Calpurnia covered the song for Spotify's Under Cover podcast in 2018

In popular culture
"Say It Ain't So" is a playable track in the video games Rock Band and Rocksmith 2014 in addition to appearing on an episode of Hindsight.
Passage 7:
Say It, Say It
"Say It, Say It" is the debut single by American singer–songwriter (and future voice actress) E. G. Daily. It was released in 1985 as the lead single from her debut album Wild Child. The single went to number one on the U.S. Dance Club Play chart for one week.  On other US charts,  "Say It, Say It"  went to number 71 on the soul chart and number 70 on the Hot 100.

Track listings
7" single (1986)

"Say It, Say It" – 4:34
"Don't Let Them Take the Child Away" – 3:3512" single (1986)

"Say It, Say It" (Extended version) – 6:52
"Say It, Say It" – 4:34
"Say It, Say It" (Dub version) – 4:40UK 12" single (1986)

"Say It, Say It" (Extended version) – 6:52
"Say It, Say It" (Dub version) – 4:40
"Don't Let Them Take the Child Away" – 3:35A&M Extended Memories 12" single (1989)

"Livin' It Up (Friday Night)" (performed by Bell and James) – 7:03
"Say It, Say It" (Extended version) – 6:52

Charts
Music video
The music video for the song is a take of the 1962 film, Lolita.
Passage 8:
Where Did the Good Times Go?
Over Here! is a musical with a score by Richard M. Sherman and Robert B. Sherman and book by Will Holt. The original Broadway production was directed by Tom Moore and choreographed by Patricia Birch, with scenic design by Douglas W. Schmidt and costumes by Carrie F. Robbins.
Over Here! was a follow-up to the Sherman brothers' World War II musical Victory Canteen, an off-Broadway production that featured 1940s icon Patty Andrews. The setting is a cross-country train trip in the United States during World War II (hence the name of the play, in contrast to the popular patriotic war anthem entitled Over There). The show begins as a nostalgic look at 1940s America (where fashion, music, big bands and swing dance dominates) but,  quickly evolves into a social commentary about the fear of dying in battle, prejudice, and discrimination.

Production history
After thirteen previews, the show opened on March 6, 1974 at the Shubert Theatre, where it ran for 341 performances and became the top-grossing production of the 1974 Broadway season. It is largely credited as the Broadway musical which launched many careers. The opening night cast included Patty  and Maxene Andrews (of the Andrews Sisters) and newcomers John Travolta, Treat Williams, Marilu Henner, Samuel E. Wright, and Ann Reinking, all of whom went on to achieve successful careers. Despite still playing to capacity audiences, the show closed on January 4, 1975 under controversial conditions. "The producers blamed Patty and Maxine, claiming they wanted more money and made unreasonable demands, and cancelled the national tour. The Andrews sisters blamed the producers, claiming they had mismanaged the show from the beginning and were now using them as scapegoats." According to an article in The New York Times, the tour was cancelled due to a "salary dispute" between the Andrews sisters and the producers.Radar online and the official site reported that Cody Linley would be starring in an all-new production of Over Here! set to launch early in 2010 at the Saban Theatre, Beverly Hills and an official website showed open auditions. In an interview, Linley confirmed that he would play the role of Bill. The production has been postponed indefinitely.
The postponed 2010 production was an "all-new" production with a modified book by original playwright Will Holt, choreographed by Tony Stevens, designed by Royal Court designer Mark Walters with associate designer Christopher Hone and Costume Designer David Toser, featuring Music Supervision by David Barber. 
Dick Van Dyke had agreed to head an all-star cast; however, he was forced to withdraw days before the start date when his partner Michelle's illness became terminal. Unable to find an immediate replacement for Van Dyke at such short notice, the producers rescheduled the production to premiere in California in 2016, following which a US tour was planned. Neither came to fruition. 
There was a 2019 Off-Broadway revival at the Triad Theatre in New York City starring Debbie Gravitte, Haley Swindal as Pauline, Jessica Hendy as Paulette, Nikka Graff Lanzarone as Mitzi, Mark William, Dani Apple, and Kristina Nicole Miller. The production was adapted into a 85-minute one act by director Will Nunziata, music director Blake Allen, and choreographer Andrew Black. The revival featured all the music from the original Broadway production, albeit in a different order, except for "Don't Shoo the Hooey to Me, Louie". The third verse of "Star-Spangled Banner" was sung by Miller where in the original production, the anthem was spoken.

Song list
Awards and nominations
Original Broadway production
2019 Revival
Passage 9:
Billy Milano
Billy Milano (born June 3, 1964) is an American heavy metal and hardcore punk musician. He is the singer and occasionally guitarist and bassist of crossover thrash band M.O.D., and was the singer of its predecessor, Stormtroopers of Death. Prior to these bands, Milano played in early New York hardcore band the Psychos, which also launched the career of future Agnostic Front vocalist Roger Miret. Milano was also the singer of United Forces, which included his Stormtroopers of Death bandmate Dan Lilker. Milano managed a number of bands, including Agnostic Front, for whom he also co-produced the 1997 Epitaph Records release Something's Gotta Give and roadie for Anthrax.

Discography
Stormtroopers of Death albums
Stormtroopers of Death videos
Method of Destruction (M.O.D.)
Mastery
Passage 10:
Say It (Booty Luv song)
"Say It" is a song by female English dance music duo Booty Luv. The song was written by Carl Björsell, Didrik Thott, Sebastian Thott and produced by Wez Clarke. It was released as the duo's sixth official single and the first single from their unfinished and unreleased second album. The song premiered on BBC Radio 1 on 10 April 2009. The single was then released four months later on 31 August 2009 through recording label Hed Kandi. "Say It" is an up-tempo song and has prominent dance and electronic dance characteristics. The song's lyrics evoke situations of lust and seduction whilst out at a club.
The song garnered commercial success for Booty Luv in the United Kingdom, where it reached a chart peak of number 16, becoming the group's fifth consecutive top twenty hit on this chart and at the same time outpeaking previous UK single "Some Kinda Rush."
A hotel/casino party-themed music video directed by Emile Nava, to "Say It" was released on 23 July 2009. The duo promoted the song by performing it on various television shows and at various venues, of which included GMTV and Sony Ericsson's Dance Nation Festival.
This was planned to be the first single off the band's second studio album Say It Now, which was scheduled for release in November 2009, but due to the low chart placing of "Say It", the album was eventually cancelled.

Background
"Say It" was written by Carl Björsell, Didrik Thott and Sebastian Thott. It was produced and mixed by Wez Clarke and co-produced by Airborn, all of whom had worked on tracks for the likes of Westlife, Delta Goodrem and Lindsay Lohan. Backing vocals were courtesy of Jeanette Olsson and the track was recorded by Booty Luv at Hed Kandi Studios in London.The song takes on a more electro sound compared to previous songs, as Cherise Roberts described the track's sound inspiration in an interview: "We're trying to go for a new kind of sound, but not too different. We just want to show progression."The song was composed in a key of C sharp minor and runs at a tempo of 126.96 beats per minute. The song was produced with consistence of various drum and bass and electronica instrumentation. In addition to sirens, synthesisers and vocoders.
In an interview with Digital Spy, Roberts explained the lyrical concept behind "Say It:"

It's so straightforward we hardly need to explain it! Sometimes you go to a club, catch a guy's eye and have an immediate connection with him. It gets to the end of the night and you're like 'Oh, I wish he'd said something to me'. The song's basically saying, 'If you've got something to say, come and say it before it's too late'.

Reception
The single received positive reviews from music critics alike.
Nick Levine of Digital Spy described the "Cracker" as "Working more of an electro sound in its verses but the surging chorus and sassy lyrics are business as usual for the dance-pop duo." About.com said "Say It", their song of the day for 28 September, "moves more in the electro direction while maintaining the pophouse feel that we all love them for." Popjustice deemed the song as "amazing." Kickinthepeanuts reviewed the song as being "a big, loud, dancey, amazing, rather gay-night-club-sounding banga."

Music video
The music video for "Say It" was first shown on 23 July on UK music channels, and was directed by Emile Nava.

Synopsis
It shows the girls arriving at a posh hotel. The girls first spot men as they enter the hotel lobby and move to their suite. The girls then head downstairs to a mini casino where they gamble. The girls are then seen against various backgrounds and laying on chairs. Finally, the girls have a party in their hotel room and invite their friends and some men to their hotel rooms, before sending them away.

Chart performance
Weekly charts
Year-end charts