Passage 1:
Operation Leopard
La légion saute sur Kolwezi, also known as Operation Leopard, is a French war film directed by Raoul Coutard and filmed in French Guiana. The script is based on the true story of the Battle of Kolwezi that happened in 1978. It was diligently described in a book of the same name by former 1st Foreign Parachute Regiment Captain Pierre Sergent. He published his book in 1979, and the film came out in 1980. Coutard shot the film in a documentary style.

Plot
The film is based on true events. In 1978, approximately 3,000 heavily armed fighters from Katanga crossed the border to the Zaire and marched into Kolwezi, a mining centre for copper and cobalt. They took 3,000 civilians as hostages. Within a few days, between 90 and 280 hostages were killed. The rebels appeared to be unpredictable and are reported to have threatened to annihilate all civilians.
Mobutu Sese Seko, Zaire's head of state, urged Belgium, France and the United States to help. France sent the Foreign Legion's 2nd Foreign Parachute Regiment, which were flown from Corsica to Kolwezi. Following their arrival, they secured the perimeter, in co-operation with Belgian soldiers from Zaire, and then started to evacuate the civilians. Within two days more than 2,000 Europeans and about 3,000 African citizens were saved. The film strives to depict the events in a dramatised form, concentrating on the Europeans' plight.

Production
The late Jean Seberg had filmed scenes on location for the film, but her death caused her to be replaced by another French American actress, Mimsy Farmer, who reshot Seberg's scenes.

Cast
Bruno Cremer: Pierre Delbart
Jacques Perrin:Ambassador Berthier
Laurent Malet: Phillipe Denrémont
Pierre Vaneck: Colonel Grasser
Mimsy Farmer: Annie Devrindt
Giuliano Gemma: Adjudant Fédérico
Robert Etcheverry : Colonel Dubourg
Jean-Claude Bouillon : Maurois
Passage 2:
The Fabulous Senorita
The Fabulous Senorita is a 1952 American musical comedy film directed by R. G. Springsteen and starring Estelita Rodriguez, Robert Clarke and Nestor Paiva. The film came at the tail-end of a cycle of Latin American-themed films, though it did introduce a new star, Rita Moreno.

Plot
Cast
Estelita Rodriguez as Estelita Rodriguez
Robert Clarke as Jerry Taylor
Nestor Paiva as José Rodriguez
Marvin Kaplan as Clifford Van Kunkle
Rita Moreno as Manuela Rodríguez
Leon Belasco as Señor Gonzales
Tito Renaldo as Pedro Sanchez
Tom Powers as Delaney
Emory Parnell as Dean Bradshaw
Olin Howland as Justice of the Peace
Vito Scotti as Esteban Gonzales
Martin Garralaga as Police Captain Garcia
Nita Del Rey as Felice
Joan Blake as Betty
Frances Dominguez as Amelia
Betty Farrington as Janitress
Norman Field as Dr. Campbell
Clark Howat as Davis
Frank Kreig as Cab Driver
Dorothy Neumann as Mrs. Black
Elizabeth Slifer as Wife of Justice of the Peace
Charles Sullivan as Cab Driver
Arthur Walsh as Pete
Passage 3:
The Night of Nights
The Night of Nights is a 1939 black-and-white drama film written by Donald Ogden Stewart and directed by Lewis Milestone for Paramount Pictures that starred Pat O'Brien, Olympe Bradna, and Roland Young.The film received positive contemporary reviews from publications such as The New York Times. Director Milestone went on to other successful productions after the film came out, including Ocean's 11 and Pork Chop Hill.

Background
Milestone directed The Night of Nights nine years after winning the 1930 Academy Award for Best Director for All Quiet on the Western Front.

Plot
Dan O'Farrell (Pat O'Brien) is a brilliant Broadway theater playwright, actor, and producer who has left the business.  When he was younger, he and his partner Barry Keith-Trimble (Roland Young) were preparing for the opening night of O'Farell's play Laughter by getting drunk.  When it was time to perform, they were so intoxicated they ended up brawling on stage and fell into the orchestra pit.  The two left the theater and continued drinking, until they learn that they have been suspended. At the same time, O'Farrell learns that his wife, actress Alyce Martelle, is pregnant and has left him for ruining her performance in Laughter as Toni.  Despondent, he in left the business and went into seclusion.
Years later, his daughter Marie (Olympe Bradna) locates him and inspires him to return to Broadway.  He decides to restage Laughter with its original cast, but with Marie substituting for Alyce in the part of Toni.  Hoping to make a glorious return with a show that would be a hit with critics and the public alike, O'Farrell enlists the aid of friends to embark on a full-fledged comeback.

Cast
Reception
Frank S. Nugent wrote for The New York Times that the work of actors Pat O'Brien and Roland Young, had "been a labor of love and the film has profited accordingly." In noting that the plot centered on "the theatre and some of the curious folk who inhabit it", the newspaper's review stated that the film had an acceptable sentimentality and shared that the story was "an uncommonly interesting study of a man's mind, subtly written and directed, presented with honesty and commendable sincerity by Mr. O'Brien, Mr. Young and Olympe Bradna, and well worth any one's attention." The only objection in the review was that the stage play Laughter, the piece being produced within the film by O'Brien's character of Dan O'Farrell, "seemed to be the most awful tripe."
Passage 4:
The Man Who Watched Trains Go By
The Man Who Watched Trains Go By (1952) is a crime drama film, based on the 1938 novel by Georges Simenon and directed by Harold French. It has an all-European cast, including Claude Rains in the lead role of Kees Popinga, who is infatuated with Michele Rozier (Märta Torén). The film was released in the United States in 1953 under the title The Paris Express.

Plot
In the Dutch city of Groningen, Kees Popinga (Claude Rains) has worked for 18 years as chief clerk and bookkeeper for a 300-year-old trading company, now run by Julius de Koster Jr. (Herbert Lom).  Kees's life is comfortable but stodgy; he loves trains but has never traveled farther than Amsterdam.
One day a man named Merkemans (Felix Aylmer), who had managed a company that went bankrupt due to another man's embezzlement, pleads with de Koster for a job. De Koster refuses because his own firm has too impeccable a reputation to be connected with such a scandal, and Merkemans had had the responsibility to prevent the fraud. Then a French police inspector named Lucas (Marius Goring) arrives to talk to de Koster about Dutch money that is turning up illegally in Paris; Lucas suspects the de Koster company, but de Koster invites Kees to show him that the books are sound. That night, Kees happens to see de Koster kissing a woman (Märta Torén) goodbye at a station.
Later, Lucas questions Kees and de Koster about the woman, showing a picture. De Koster lies; Kees supports him, but now fears that he too has failed to prevent a crime. That night his fears are confirmed when he goes to the office and finds de Koster burning the books. De Koster says the firm will be bankrupt in the morning. Kees follows de Koster to a canal. De Koster shows him a suicide note. Kees is trying to stop him jumping in the water when De Koster's briefcase comes open, revealing 100,000 Dutch guilders in cash. The suicide note was a fake. Enraged, Kees attacks de Koster, who falls into the water and hits his head on a boat.
Also in the briefcase is a train ticket to Paris and the address of the woman, whose name is Michele Rozier. Kees takes the briefcase and boards the train, abandoning his family. On board he is surprised to meet Lucas, who makes it clear he suspects Kees. As they approach Paris, Kees jumps off the train. He goes to Michele, but she turns him away, not realizing he has the money. Lucas meets her and explains what has happened. He says de Koster is alive, but Kees does not know this, and Lucas fears he will now do something desperate.
As Lucas hopes, Michele wants the money enough to trace Kees, and the police follow her to him. But she helps him get away and stay with Louis (Ferdy Mayne), her lover, who lives over a garage near train tracks. She tells Kees that within a couple of days Louis will provide Kees with fake papers so he can leave the country.
Kees is suspicious enough to hide the money, in an abandoned car near the tracks, before Louis is able to search his effects. Bored with hiding out and tired of belittling remarks about his status, he decides to "live dangerously" and takes Michele out on the town. She seems to warm to him and he is seduced into trusting her. Drunk and infatuated, he phones Lucas to taunt him, promises Michele they will go away together, and then tells her where the money is. She goes there, but Lucas has already found it. He offers her immunity if she helps him find Kees.
Kees gets away from Lucas, steals a knife from a shop window, and goes to the garage.  At knifepoint, Louis phones Michele and asks her to come.  Kees confronts Michele and threatens to prove his worth by killing her—and then he does.  With Lucas in pursuit, he runs onto the train tracks and directly toward an approaching train.  At the last moment it reaches a switch and crosses onto another track.  Kees rambles deliriously as Lucas arrests him.

Cast
Claude Rains as Kees Popinga
Marius Goring as Lucas
Märta Torén as Michele Rozier
Ferdy Mayne as Louis
Herbert Lom as Julius de Koster Jr
Lucie Mannheim as Maria Popinga
Anouk Aimée as Jeanne
Eric Pohlmann as Goin
Felix Aylmer as Mr Merkemans
Gibb McLaughlin as Julius de Koster Sr
Michael Nightingale as Popinga's Clerk

Critical reception
TV Guide wrote that the film "boasts good performances from Rains, Toren, and Lom, but is hampered by the static direction of Harold French"; whereas Culture Catch called it a "solid adaptation," which "embraces Simenon's favorite archetype, an innocent who mistakenly thinks he has committed some evil act, and then eventually actually does...Directed by Harold French, a British stalwart, this little thriller is worth every one of the 82 minutes you'll spend with it."
Passage 5:
Closely Watched Trains
Closely Watched Trains (Czech: Ostře sledované vlaky) is a 1966 Czechoslovak film directed by Jiří Menzel and is one of the best-known products of the Czechoslovak New Wave. It was released in the United Kingdom as Closely Observed Trains. It is a coming-of-age story about a young man working at a train station in German-occupied Czechoslovakia during World War II. The film is based on a 1965 novel by Bohumil Hrabal. It was produced by Barrandov Studios and filmed on location in Central Bohemia. Released outside Czechoslovakia during 1967, it won the Best Foreign Language Oscar at the 40th Academy Awards in 1968.

Plot
The young Miloš Hrma, who speaks with misplaced pride of his family of misfits and malingerers, is engaged as a newly-trained train dispatcher at a small railway station near the end of the Second World War and the German occupation of Czechoslovakia. He admires himself in his new uniform and looks forward, like his prematurely retired train driver father, to avoiding real work. The sometimes pompous stationmaster is an enthusiastic pigeon-breeder who has a kind wife, but is envious of train dispatcher Hubička's success with women. The idyll of the railway station is periodically disturbed by the arrival of Councillor Zedníček, a Nazi collaborator who spouts propaganda at the staff, though he does not influence anyone with it.
Miloš is in a budding relationship with the pretty, young conductor Máša. The experienced Hubička presses for details and realizes that Miloš is still a virgin. At her initiative, Máša spends the night with Miloš, but in his youthful excitability he ejaculates prematurely and is unable to perform sexually. The next day, despairing, he attempts suicide, but is saved. A young doctor at the hospital explains to Miloš that ejaculatio praecox is normal at his age, recommending that Miloš "think of something else", such as football, and seek out an experienced woman to help him through his first sexual experience.
During the nightshift, Hubička flirts with the young telegraphist, Zdenička, and imprints her thighs and buttocks with the office's rubber stamps. Her mother sees the stamps and complains to Hubička's superiors.
The Germans and their collaborators are on edge, since their trains and railroad tracks are being attacked by partisans. A glamorous resistance agent, code-named Viktoria Freie, delivers a time bomb to Hubička for use in blowing up a large ammunition train. At Hubička's request, the "experienced" Viktoria also helps Miloš to resolve his sexual problem.
The next day, at the crucial moment when the ammunition train is approaching the station, Hubička is caught up in a farcical disciplinary hearing, overseen by Zedníček, over his rubber-stamping of Zdenička's backside. In Hubička's place, Miloš, liberated from his former passivity by his experience with Viktoria, takes the time bomb and drops it onto the train from a semaphore gantry, which extends transversely above the tracks. A machine-gunner on the train, spotting Miloš, sprays him with bullets, and his body falls onto the train.
Zedníček winds up the disciplinary hearing by dismissing the Czech people as "nothing but laughing hyenas" (a phrase actually employed by the senior Nazi official Reinhard Heydrich). The stationmaster is despondent because the scandal with Hubička and Zdenička seems to have frustrated his ambition of being promoted to inspector. Then a huge series of explosions happens just around a bend in the track as the train is destroyed by the bomb. Hubička, unaware of what has happened to Miloš, laughs to express his joy at this blow to the Nazi occupiers. Máša, who has been waiting to speak with Miloš, picks up his uniform cap, which has wound up at her feet, blown by the huge winds from the blast.

Cast
Václav Neckář as Miloš Hrma
Josef Somr as train dispatcher Hubička
Vlastimil Brodský as councilor Zedníček
Vladimír Valenta as stationmaster Lanska
Jitka Bendová as conductor Máša
Jitka Zelenohorská as telegraphist Zdenička
Naďa Urbánková as Viktoria Freie
Libuše Havelková as Lanska's wife
Milada Ježková as Zdenička's mother
Jiří Menzel as Doctor Brabec

Production
The film is based on a 1965 novel of the same name by the noted Czech author Bohumil Hrabal, whose work Jiří Menzel had previously adapted to make The Death of Mr. Balthazar, his segment of the anthology film of Hrabal stories Pearls of the Deep (1965). Barrandov Studios first offered this project to the more experienced directors Evald Schorm and Věra Chytilová (Closely Watched Trains was the first feature film directed by Menzel), but neither of them saw a way to adapt the book to film. Menzel and Hrabal worked together closely on the script, making a number of modifications to the novel.Menzel's first choice for the lead role of Miloš was Vladimír Pucholt, but he was occupied filming Jiří Krejčík's Svatba jako řemen. Menzel considered playing the role himself, but he concluded that, at almost 28, he was too old. Fifteen non-professional actors were then tested before the wife of Ladislav Fikar (a poet and publisher) came up with the suggestion of the pop singer Václav Neckář. Menzel has related that he himself only took on the cameo role of the doctor at the last minute, after the actor originally cast failed to show up for shooting.
Filming began in late February and lasted until the end of April 1966. Locations were used in and around the station building in Loděnice.The association between Menzel and Hrabal was to continue, with Larks on a String (made in 1969 but not released until 1990), Cutting It Short (1981), The Snowdrop Festival (1984), and I Served the King of England (2006) all being directed by Menzel and based on works by Hrabal.

Reception
The film premiered in Czechoslovakia on 18 November 1966. Release outside Czechoslovakia took place in the following year.

Critical response
Bosley Crowther of The New York Times called Closely Watched Trains "as expert and moving in its way as was Ján Kadár's and Elmar Klos's The Shop on Main Street or Miloš Forman's Loves of a Blonde," two roughly contemporary films from Czechoslovakia. Crowther wrote:What it appears Mr. Menzel is aiming at all through his film is just a wonderfully sly, sardonic picture of the embarrassments of a youth coming of age in a peculiarly innocent yet worldly provincial environment. ... The charm of his film is in the quietness and slyness of his earthy comedy, the wonderful finesse of understatements, the wise and humorous understanding of primal sex. And it is in the brilliance with which he counterpoints the casual affairs of his country characters with the realness, the urgency and significance of those passing trains. Variety's reviewer wrote:The 28-year-old Jiri Menzel registers a remarkable directorial debut. His sense for witty situations is as impressive as his adroit handling of the players. A special word of praise must go to Bohumil Hrabal, the creator of the literary original; the many amusing gags and imaginative situations are primarily his. The cast is composed of wonderful types down the line.
In his study of the Czechoslovak New Wave, Peter Hames places the film in a broader context, connecting it to, among other things, the most famous anti-hero of Czech literature, Jaroslav Hašek's The Good Soldier Švejk, a fictional World War I soldier whose artful evasion of duty and undermining of authority are sometimes held to epitomize characteristic Czech qualities:

In its attitudes, if not its form, Closely Observed Trains is the Czech film that comes closest to the humour and satire of The Good Soldier Švejk, not least because it is prepared to include the reality of the war as a necessary aspect of its comic vision. The attack on ideological dogmatism, bureaucracy and anachronistic moral values undoubtedly strikes wider targets than the period of Nazi Occupation. However, it would be wrong to reduce the film to a coded reflection on contemporary Czech society: the attitudes and ideas derive from the same conditions that originally inspired Hašek. Insofar as these conditions recur, under the Nazi Occupation or elsewhere, the response will be the same.

Awards and honors
The film won several international awards:

The Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, awarded in 1968 for films released in 1967
The Grand Prize at the 1966 Mannheim-Heidelberg International Filmfestival
A nomination for the 1968 BAFTA Awards for Best Film and Best Soundtrack
A nomination for the 1968 DGA Award for Outstanding Directorial Achievement in Motion Pictures
A nomination for the 1967 Golden Globe for Best Foreign-Language Foreign Film

See also
Czechoslovak New Wave
List of submissions to the 40th Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film
List of Czechoslovakia submissions for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film
Passage 6:
Kabani Nadi Chuvannappol
Kabani Nadi Chuvannappol (When the River Kabani Turned Red) is a 1975 Malayalam feature film directed by P. A. Backer, produced by Pavithran, and starring T. V. Chandran, Shalini, Raveendran and J. Siddiqui. This leftist political drama film came out during the Emergency period. It was the directorial debut of P. A. Backer, who won that year's awards for Best Director and Second Best Film at the Kerala State Film Awards. Pavithran, who later directed many critically acclaimed Malayalam films produced the film. T. V. Chandran, who also later went on to direct a bevy of award-winning films in Malayalam and Tamil, played the lead role. After certain post-production controversies, the film debuted in theatres on 16 July 1976.

Cast
Production and release
The principal production started in June 1975. The day when shoot of the film commenced in Bangalore, Emergency was declared in India.The film was screened at several film festivals in 1975. It was not given the censor certificate for the theme it dealt with for more than a year. It released in theatres during the Emergency period itself, on 16 July 1976.The English title of the film is When the River Kabani Turned Red.

Awards
Kerala State Film AwardsSecond Best Film - P. A. Backer (director), Pavithran (producer)
Best Director - P. A. Backer
Passage 7:
Det Sande Ansigt
Det Sande Ansigt (English translation: The True Face) is a 1951 Danish film directed by Bodil Ipsen and Lau Lauritzen Jr., written by Johannes Allen, and based upon the novel by Gerhard Rasmussen. The film received the Bodil Award for Best Danish Film of the Year.

Plot
Troels Rolff, a young architect (played by Lau Lauritzen Jr.), is questioned as a suspect for the rape and murder of a 10-year-old girl. He pleads his innocence, and yet he is unable to explain what he was doing the day of the murder. Rolff's world breaks apart as those closest to him – his wife, his father, his pastor and his friends—react to his arrest with varying degrees of suspicion. Even when cleared of the charges, the question remains if he can ever return to his former life of joy and innocence.

Cast
Lau Lauritzen Jr. as Troels Rolff
Johannes Meyer as Pastor Mikael Rolff
Lisbeth Movin as Troels' Girlfriend Sonja
Ib Schønberg as Editor
Grethe Thordahl as Troels' Wife
Oluf Bang as Troels' Father
Jørn Jeppesen
Einar Juhl
Emil Hass Christensen
Jakob Nielsen
Elsa Albeck
Poul Müller
Louis Miehe-Renard
Carl Heger
Per Buckhøj
Passage 8:
Shower train
Shower trains or bathing trains were specialized trains or train cars used throughout Europe to provide bathing facilities to troops stationed along the battlefront during the First World War.

Switzerland
Shower trains (known as Armeebadezug) were used in Switzerland. Each train consisted of old rolling stock from private railway companies: a locomotive, a tank car and converted passenger cars, each with a shower room and two cloakrooms. The water was taken from the tank car and heated by the locomotive.
This train served the thousands of Swiss militia protecting Switzerland's borders.

Imperial Russia
Similar bathing trains were used in the Russian Empire in 1914.


== Notes ==
Passage 9:
DET
DET or Det may refer to:

A common abbreviation of the U.S. city of Detroit and its major professional sports teams.
Detroit Lions of the National Football League
Detroit Pistons of the National Basketball Association
Detroit Tigers of Major League Baseball
Detroit Red Wings of the National Hockey League
Detroit (Amtrak station), station code
Duolingo English Test (DET), a standardized test of English language
Coleman A. Young International Airport, Detroit, US, IATA Code
Diethyltryptamine, a psychedelic drug
Detection error tradeoff
It (Christensen book) (Det in Danish), poetry book
The mathematical determinant
Department of Education (New South Wales), formerly the Department of Education and Training (DET)
14 Intelligence Company, UK military undercover unit
a determiner, in interlinear glossing
Passage 10:
My Little Eye
My Little Eye is a 2002 British horror film directed by Marc Evans about five adults who agree to spend six months together in an isolated mansion while being filmed at all times. The idea for the film came from reality television shows such as Big Brother. The title refers to the guessing game I spy.

Plot
Five contestants, Matt (Sean Cw Johnson), Emma (Laura Regan), Charlie (Jennifer Sky), Danny (Stephen O'Reilly) and Rex (Kris Lemche), agree to take part in a reality webcast, where they must spend six months in a house to win $1 million. If anyone leaves, then no one wins the money. Nearing the end of the six months, tension between the contestants rises after Emma finds strange messages she believes are from a man from her past and the food packages arrive containing a letter that claims Danny's grandfather has died, and a gun with five bullets.
One night, a man named Travis Patterson (Bradley Cooper) arrives, claiming he is lost in the woods and that his GPS has died. Despite claiming to be an internet programmer, he claims to not recognize any of the contestants or ever having heard of the show. Later that night, Travis has sex with Charlie, and then secretly talks directly into a camera, to communicate with whoever is watching them. The next morning, Travis leaves and Danny discovers his backpack outside covered in blood and shredded to pieces. The contestants assume he was attacked by an animal but Rex believes Travis works for the people running their show and that it is all a trick to make them leave the house and forfeit the prize money.
Emma discovers her underwear among Danny’s belongings and confronts him, unaware that Travis planted them there the previous night. Danny denies it and attempts to make peace by giving her a crudely carved wooden cat, which Emma and Charlie ridicule, while Danny overhears.
The next morning, the group finds Danny has committed suicide by hanging himself from the staircase balcony with a rope. The guests finally decide to leave, but after being unable to contact anyone via radio, decide to wait until the next morning. Rex uses the GPS unit from Travis' bag and his laptop to gain access to the internet to find out more about the show but is unable to find any evidence of their show online.
Rex is only able to find a heavily encrypted beta site, that requires a $50,000 fee to access, and displays a web page with their pictures and betting odds. The group decides they will leave the next morning, though Rex and Emma go up to the roof to set off a flare. While Charlie and Matt remain in the house, Matt asks a camera if he should kill her, before suffocating her with a plastic bag.
Later, while Emma is sleeping, Rex comes downstairs and is decapitated with an axe by Matt. Matt awakens Emma and brings her up to the attic, telling her he is being chased and the others are dead. He then makes advances on Emma, who refuses, and attempts to rape her, before she stabs him in the back and runs off.
Emma runs outside and finds a police officer, who handcuffs her inside the car and enters the house. An injured Matt then crawls out, begging the cop to let him kill Emma, since he spent six months in the house with her. Realizing they are working together, Emma escapes the car and tries to run but is shot in the back with a rifle by the cop.
Matt and the cop sit in the kitchen discussing the setup they created with Travis for their high paying clients who want to witness the murders. When the cop says there are always "five suckers" to play the game with, Matt corrects him to four, and is then shot in the head. The cop then leaves, talking to Travis over the radio, while Emma is seen locked in a small room, unable to escape. As she collapses screaming, the cameras filming all shut off, one by one.

Cast
Sean Cw Johnson as Matt
Kris Lemche as Rex
Stephen O'Reilly as Danny
Laura Regan as Emma
Jennifer Sky as Charlie
Nick Mennell as The Cop
Bradley Cooper as Travis Patterson

Home media
My Little Eye is available on DVD from MCA/Universal Home Video with most of the special features available on the Region 2 Special Edition including a filmmakers' commentary and deleted scenes. There is an audio mode "Conversations of the Company (Eavesdropping Audio Track)" which allows the viewer to listen to the radio conversations between the members of the company: Travis and "the cop". However, during this mode, the viewer cannot hear all of the dialogue of the cast in the scene. A UK release contains a 'Special Mode' where viewers see the film from the perspective of an internet subscriber, and more extra features become unlocked as the film goes on. You can watch other things going on in 'the house' in real time to what's happening in the film.

Reception
The film received polarized but positive reviews and holds 67% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 21 reviews, with an average score of 5.2/10.

See also
List of films featuring surveillance