Passage 1:
Henry Moore (cricketer)
Henry Walter Moore (1849 – 20 August 1916) was an English-born first-class cricketer who spent most of his life in New Zealand.

Life and family
Henry Moore was born in Cranbrook, Kent, in 1849. He was the son of the Reverend Edward Moore and Lady Harriet Janet Sarah Montagu-Scott, who was one of the daughters of the 4th Duke of Buccleuch. One of his brothers, Arthur, became an admiral and was knighted. Their great 
grandfather was John Moore, Archbishop of Canterbury from 1783 to 1805. One of their sisters was a maid of honour to Queen Victoria.Moore went to New Zealand in the 1870s and lived in Geraldine and Christchurch. He married Henrietta Lysaght of Hāwera in November 1879, and they had one son. In May 1884 she died a few days after giving birth to a daughter, who also died.In 1886 Moore became a Justice of the Peace in Geraldine. In 1897 he married Alice Fish of Geraldine. They moved to England four years before his death in 1916.

Cricket career
Moore was a right-handed middle-order batsman. In consecutive seasons, 1876–77 and 1877–78, playing for Canterbury, he made the highest score in the short New Zealand first-class season: 76 and 75 respectively. His 76 came in his first match for Canterbury, against Otago. He went to the wicket early on the first day with the score at 7 for 2 and put on 99 for the third wicket with Charles Corfe before he was out with the score at 106 for 3 after a "very fine exhibition of free hitting, combined with good defence". Canterbury were all out for 133, but went on to win the match. His 75 came in the next season's match against Otago, when he took the score from 22 for 2 to 136 for 6. The New Zealand cricket historian Tom Reese said, "Right from the beginning he smote the bowling hip and thigh, going out of his ground to indulge in some forceful driving." Canterbury won again.Moore led the batting averages in the Canterbury Cricket Association in 1877–78 with 379 runs at an average of 34.4. Also in 1877–78, he was a member of the Canterbury team that inflicted the only defeat on the touring Australians. In 1896–97, at the age of 47, he top-scored in each innings for a South Canterbury XVIII against the touring Queensland cricket team.
Passage 2:
Smokey and the Bandit Part 3
Smokey and the Bandit Part 3 is a 1983 American action comedy film and a second and final sequel to Smokey and the Bandit (1977) and Smokey and the Bandit II (1980), starring Jackie Gleason, Jerry Reed, Paul Williams, Pat McCormick, Mike Henry and Colleen Camp. The film also includes a cameo near the end by the original Bandit, Burt Reynolds.
With one of the main titular characters missing, the plot of the film revolves instead around Sheriff Buford T. Justice ("Smokey"), with the presence of the Bandit merely being suggested through him being impersonated by Cledus ("Snowman").
The film received negative reviews and was a box office bomb.

Plot
Big Enos and Little Enos offer retiring Sheriff Buford T. Justice a wager, betting $250,000 against his badge on his ability to transport a large stuffed fish from Florida to Texas. Buford rejects the wager and retires, but goes through all sorts of mishaps before finally realizing retirement is not all it is cracked up to be and accepting the Enoses' wager. Buford picks up the fish and starts driving with his son, Junior.
The Enoses set many traps, but Buford dodges all of them, so they try to hire the Bandit to intercept him. Agreeing that the original Bandit is too hard to manage, they hire the Snowman to act as the Bandit. The new Snowman/Bandit parks his truck so he can drive a black and gold 1983 Pontiac Trans Am.
The Bandit picks up Dusty, who quits her job at a used car dealership. The Bandit catches up with Buford and steals the fish with Dusty's help. Buford pursues the Bandit, with another local officer who attempts to take charge of the situation. Both police cars are disabled in the chase.
Buford catches up after the Bandit and Dusty stop at a redneck bar to eat. The chase then creates mass chaos in a local town. The Bandit escapes when an 18-wheeler blocks the alleyway where the Bandit sped through. While trying to get the truck out, Buford's car is towed, but he reverses the car and escapes. The tow truck driver chases him, with Junior spinning on the hook. Buford makes the truck flip over, sending Junior flying through the air. Other cars crash into the pile-up.
Buford chases the Bandit in the Mississippi Fairgrounds. Buford's car is thrown up on two side wheels by an incline, but he continues the pursuit while driving on two wheels.
That night, the Bandit and Dusty stop at a hotel called the Come On Inn, where people are involved in an orgy. Buford sees the Bandit's Trans-Am parked there and searches for the fish, which he finds. Buford also thinks he finds the Bandit in the sauna, but it turns out to be a muscular woman who bonds with him.
The next day, one of Buford's tires are blown by the "Enos Devil Darts". The Bandit retakes the fish. Buford pursues on the remaining three tires, first through a herd of cattle, then through parked boats, then a nudist camp, then through a field where the Enoses set off explosions, one of which destroys the car except the engine, seat, and lights, the latter of which Junior is holding above his head.
The Bandit intends to surrender the fish and let Buford win. As Buford collects his money, he sees the Snowman. Thinking he is dealing with the real Bandit, he resists "the Bandit's" (imagined as Burt Reynolds) attempts to sweet-talk him out of capturing him before Junior (in a voiceover) reminds him of what is in store for him if he retires. Buford and the Bandit both separately come to the same conclusion that they need each other in order to have meaning in their lives and the chase resumes, with Buford giving the Bandit a five-minute head start and with the muscular woman joining up with him. Junior is left behind and chases after Buford and the woman, dropping all the money in the process.

Cast
Jackie Gleason as Montague County Sheriff Buford T. Justice of Texas
Jerry Reed as Cledus "The Snowman" Snow / "The Bandit"
Paul Williams as Enos "Little Enos" Burdette
Pat McCormick as Enos "Big Enos" Burdette
Mike Henry as Junior Justice
Colleen Camp as Dusty Trails
Faith Minton as Tina
Burt Reynolds as Bo "The Bandit" Darville, The Real Bandit
Sharon Anderson as Police Woman
Silvia Arana as Latin Woman
Alan Berger as Hippie
Ray Bouchard as Purvis R. Beethoven
Connie Brighton as Girl #1
Earl Houston Bullock as Flagman
Ava Cadell as The Blonde
Cathy Cahill as Mother Trucker
David S. Cass Sr. as Local Tough Guy
Leon Cheatom as Guide
Candace Collins as French Maid
Peter Conrad as Midget
Janis Cummins as Nudist Female
Jackie Davis as Blackman #1
Dee Dee Deering as Mrs. Fernbush
Al De Luca as Flower Vendor
Raymond Forchion as Tar Worker
Dick Lowry as Sand Dumper
Sandy Mielke as Driving Instructor

Production
The film was originally entitled Smokey IS the Bandit, and did not include Jerry Reed in the cast.  Contemporary newspapers refer to original plans to feature Gleason as both "Smokey" and "the Bandit", and Reed's name does not appear in early promotional materials or newspaper accounts during the film's production.  According to some accounts, Jackie Gleason was to play two roles: Sheriff Buford T. Justice and a different "Bandit". The original version was shot in October 1982. Reportedly test audiences reacted poorly, finding Gleason's two roles confusing, so the studio opted to do re-shoots in April 1983.  The Bandit scenes were re-shot with Jerry Reed playing the role. Other accounts indicate that the title was more literal: that Gleason was to play only Sheriff Justice, but the character would also fill the role of "the Bandit", by taking the Enos family's challenge (as Reynolds' character had done in the previous two films). In a teaser trailer for the film (billed as Smokey IS the Bandit), Gleason appears in character as Justice, explaining to the audience that to defeat the Bandit he would adopt the attributes of his prey, "becoming [my] own worst enemy". A publicity still of Gleason apparently shows him in costume as the Bandit.

Soundtrack
Smokey and the Bandit Part 3: Music from the Original Motion Picture Soundtrack was released on vinyl and cassette tape by MCA Records in 1983.

Reception
Smokey and the Bandit Part 3 received negative reviews by critics and the film was generally regarded as the weakest of the three Bandit films in terms of both storyline and revenue. On Rotten Tomatoes, it has an approval rating of 17% based on reviews from six critics.Janet Maslin of The New York Times gave the film a negative review: "The already skimpy running time of Smokey and the Bandit, Part 3 is padded by an opening montage of earlier Smokey scenes, including shots of Burt Reynolds lounging in a zebra-print hammock. He is grinning, as well he might, because he has been able to sit out Part 3 altogether. What has he missed? An interminable car chase punctuated by dumb stunts and even dumber dialogue, plus the well-worth-missing sight of Paul Williams in a dress". Variety magazine staff wrote: "The sense of fun in that original is missing and the countless smashups and near-misses are orchestrated randomly".
Despite the enormous financial success of the original film (grossing over $300 million on a budget of less than $5 million), coupled with respectable (though significantly lower) numbers generated by the sequel, the third installment was both a critical and box office flop, grossing only $7 million against the film's $9 million production budget.
Passage 3:
Smokey Bites the Dust
Smokey Bites the Dust is a 1981 car chase film from New World Pictures directed by Charles B. Griffith.  Despite the title, the film is not connected to the Smokey and the Bandit series.

Plot
The stock plot deals with Roscoe Wilton (Jimmy McNichol), a teenage joyriding car thief, evading Cyco County Sheriff Turner (Walter Barnes) and his unintelligent deputies.
Turner becomes even more obsessed with catching Roscoe after he kidnaps his overly-sheltered daughter, Peggy Sue (Janet Julian), just as she is about to be crowned Homecoming Queen during a football game at their high school.  In so doing, Roscoe also makes himself a target of other characters, including his best friend Harold (John Blyth Barrymore), Peggy Sue's friend Cindy (Kari Lizer), and Kenny (William Forsythe), a sanctimonius quarterback who is deeply, but vainly, in love with Peggy Sue.
While Roscoe is being chased by Sheriff Turner, Turner himself incurs the wrath of neighboring Knotsie County Sheriff Sherm Bleed after commandeering one of Bleed's cruisers.  Turner's pursuit of Roscoe (and Peggy Sue, who quickly begins to enjoy being in Roscoe's company) goes through two other neighboring counties, with Turner commandeering several other police cruisers and civilian cars only to wreck each one in spectacular fashion.

Subplots
Lester (Patrick Campbell), a local moonshiner is looking to sell his "secret formula" to an Arab oil sheik for "a million clams"; the deal falls through when it turns out the sheik brought actual clams instead of money.
Harold and Cindy share a car as they join in the chase; Harold to get his dad's car back from Roscoe, and Cindy to give Peggy Sue her crown.  As the chase progresses, Harold and Cindy begin to fall for one another, similar to Roscoe and Peggy Sue.
At a nearby truck stop, a preteen girl is willing to let Roscoe and Peggy Sue steal her father's station wagon (with boat in tow) in exchange for a carton of cigarettes.  The girl appears several times more throughout the film, including near the end when everyone converges on Snake Lake Beach in a chaotic free-for-all; watching from a distance, the girl muses, "What, I ask you, is the point in growing up?".
Kenny's infatuation with Peggy Sue motivates him to chase the elusive couple on his own in an attempt to rescue her; he even goes so far as to run other police cruisers off the road just so he can save Peggy Sue himself.  After the fight on the beach, Kenny is eventually "arrested" by the female sheriff of neighboring Belladonna County.

Cast
Jimmy McNichol as Roscoe Wilton
Janet Julian as Peggy Sue Turner
Walter Barnes as Sheriff Hugh "Smokey" Turner
Patrick Campbell as Lester
Kari Lizer as Cindy
John Blyth Barrymore as Harold
William Forsythe (credited as 'Bill Forsythe') as Kenny
Kedric Wolfe as Deputy Bentley
Charles Howerton as Sheriff Sherman "Sherm" Bleed
Tony Cox as Desk Clerk

Production
Though the majority of the cars used in filming had California licence plates, the exact location of the storyline was more ambiguous; film dialogue mentioned the boonies, which generally refers to the Appalachian region, and also mentioned running off to "east St. Louis or west to Colorado".  Near the end of the film, Roscoe suggests they hotwire a boat and take off for St. Louis or New Orleans, both of which are on the Mississippi River.
Charles B. Griffith had made a popular film for Roger Corman's New World Pictures called Eat My Dust! (1976). Corman wanted Griffith to make a follow up called Car Wars using stunt footage from five old New World films. Griffith wrote a script which he later called Wham Bam, Merci, Madame, which he says Corman rejected. However a few years later he reactivated the project.

He called again and offered me a lot more money than he ever had before. I guess I got flattered, and I went ahead and did it. He had Max Apple in Texas go ahead and write a script around all the wrecks and chases. But Max wasn't allowed to see the footage. It was too expensive to rent a Movieola and send Max prints or anything else, so he had only vague descriptions written down on what the stunts were—and nothing worked. So I made a lot of changes in it, and that made Roger angry. He tried to cut it just to the action of the old pictures, but he couldn't, because he needed all the distribution rights. Then he cut all the motivations and all the character development. It was a mess, a jumbled mess!
Apple later described the experience: "They wanted four or five crashes, of which they already had the footage. It was more bricklaying than writing.
Passage 4:
Smokey and the Bandit
Smokey and the Bandit is a 1977 American action comedy film starring Burt Reynolds, Sally Field, Jackie Gleason, Jerry Reed, Pat McCormick, Paul Williams and Mike Henry.
The directorial debut of stuntman Hal Needham, the film follows Bo "Bandit" Darville (Reynolds) and Cledus "Snowman" Snow (Reed), two bootleggers attempting to illegally transport 400 cases of Coors beer from Texarkana to Atlanta. While the Snowman drives the truck carrying the beer, the Bandit drives a 1977 Pontiac Trans Am to distract law enforcement (called blocking) and keep the attention off the Snowman. During their run, they are pursued by Texas county sheriff Buford T. Justice (Gleason).
Smokey and the Bandit was the second-highest-grossing domestic film of 1977 in the United States.

Plot
Wealthy Texan Big Enos Burdette and his son Little Enos have sponsored a racer in Atlanta's Southern Classic and want to celebrate in style when he wins, so they are seeking a trucker willing to bootleg Coors Beer to Atlanta for their refreshment. They find local legend Bo "Bandit" Darville at a truck rodeo at Lakewood Fairgrounds and offer him $80,000 to haul 400 cases of Coors from Texarkana (the closest place it could be legally sold at that time) to Atlanta in 28 hours. The Bandit takes the bet on the risky and unprecedented task, and recruits his brother-in-law Cledus "Snowman" Snow to drive the truck, while Bandit drives a black Pontiac Trans Am bought in advance from the Burdettes as a "blocker" to divert attention away from the truck and its illegal cargo.
The pair arrive in Texarkana one hour early and load up the truck, but just as they head back, Carrie, a runaway bride, intercepts Bandit and jumps in his car, unwittingly making him an indirect target of Sheriff Buford T. Justice, a career Texas lawman whose witless son Junior was to have married Carrie. Buford, with Junior along, engages in a high-speed pursuit and doggedly chases Bandit all the way to Georgia to retrieve Carrie and arrest the Bandit, while various comical mishaps cause his cruiser to disintegrate on the way.
Bandit attracts more police attention across Dixie as Snowman barrels on toward Atlanta with the contraband beer, but they are helped en route by many colorful characters via CB radio. Neither Buford nor any other lawmen know of Snowman's illegal manifest, while Bandit is likewise unaware that Buford is chasing him because of Carrie, whose jumpiness inspires Bandit to give her the CB handle "Frog".
Just after re-entering Georgia, Snowman is rescued by Bandit after being stopped by a Georgia State Patrol motorcycle trooper, as state and local police intensely pursue Bandit with roadblocks and a helicopter to track his movement. With four miles left, Bandit, discouraged by the unexpected mounting attention, is ready to give up, but Snowman, who initially thought they would fail, takes the lead and smashes through the roadblock at the fairgrounds' main entrance. They return with ten minutes remaining on their time limit, but instead of taking the payoff, Carrie and Bandit accept a double-or-nothing offer from Little Enos: a challenge to run up to Boston and bring back clam chowder in 18 hours. They quickly escape in one of Big Enos's 13 Cadillacs as police flood the racetrack.
After passing Buford's badly damaged cruiser on the roadside, Bandit gets on the CB and initially directs him to the Burdettes, but then respectfully gives his real location—right behind Buford, who continues his chase leaving Junior behind, and with more parts falling off his cruiser as he limps off after Bandit.

Cast
Burt Reynolds as Bo "The Bandit" Darville
Sally Field as Carrie "Frog"
Jerry Reed as Cledus "The Snowman" Snow
Jackie Gleason as Sheriff Buford T. Justice / "Smokey Bear"
Mike Henry as Junior Justice
Pat McCormick as Enos "Big Enos" Burdette
Paul Williams as Enos "Little Enos" Burdette
Macon McCalman as Mr. B
Susan McIver as "Hot Pants" Hillyard
George Reynolds as Sheriff George Branford
Laura Lizer Sommers as "Little Beaver"
Michael Mann as Branford's Deputy
Lamar Jackson as "Sugar Bear"
Ronnie Gay as Georgia Trooper
Quinnon Sheffield as Alabama Trooper
Alfie Wise as Alabama Patrolman
Pat Hustis as Tow Truck Driver
Ingeborg Kjeldsen as Foxy Lady
Michael McManus as Trucker "Silver Tongued Devil"
Gene Witham as Leader of The Gang
Susan Sindelar as Motorcycle Gang Member
Ben Jones as Trucker #1
Joe Klecko as Trucker #2
Hank Worden as Trucker #3
Sonny Shroyer as Motorcycle Cop (uncredited)

Production
Development
Needham originally planned the film as a low-budget B movie with a production cost of $1 million, with Reed as the Bandit. Needham had great difficulty getting any studios or producers to take his project seriously, being better known in the film industry as a stuntman. He obtained the attention of studios and aimed the film at a more mainstream release after his friend Reynolds read the script and agreed to portray the Bandit, with Reed now portraying the Bandit's friend the Snowman. Reed would eventually play the Bandit in Smokey and the Bandit Part 3, in which Reynolds only appeared in a cameo near the end. At the time, Reynolds was the top box office star in the world.
In the original script, Carrie was called Kate while Big Enos and Little Enos were called Kyle and Dickey. The Bandit's car was a second-generation Trans Am and the prize for completing the run was a new truck rather than $80,000. Reynolds revealed in his autobiography that Needham had written the first draft script on legal pads. Upon showing it to his friend, Reynolds told Needham that it was the worst script he had ever read, but that he would still make the movie. Most of the dialogue was improvised on set.Universal Studios bankrolled Smokey and the Bandit for $5.3 million, figuring it was a good risk. Just two days before production was to begin, Universal sent a "hatchet man" to Atlanta to inform Needham that the budget was being trimmed by $1 million. With Reynolds' salary at $1 million, Needham was left with only $3.3 million to make the film. Needham and assistant director David Hamburger spent 30 hours revising the shooting schedule."Buford T. Justice" was the name of a real Florida Highway Patrolman known to Reynolds' father, who was once Police Chief of Riviera Beach, Florida. His father was also the inspiration for the word "sumbitch" used in the film, a variation of the phrase "son-of-a-bitch" that, according to Reynolds, he uttered quite often. Gleason was given free rein to ad-lib dialogue and make suggestions. It was his idea to have Junior alongside him throughout the film. In particular, the scene where Sheriff Justice unknowingly encounters the Bandit in a roadside diner (a "choke and puke" in CB lingo) was not in the original story but was rather Gleason's idea.
The film's theme song, "East Bound and Down", was written virtually overnight by Reed. He gave Needham a preview of the song and, getting no reaction, offered to rewrite it. In response, Needham told Reed that he liked the song so much that if Reed changed even a word or a note, Needham would "choke him". It would become one of Reed's biggest hits and his signature song.The film features the custom clothing and costuming of Niver Western Wear of Fort Worth, Texas. Niver provided much of the western attire worn in the film, as well as the custom-made sheriff's uniforms (waist size 64") that Gleason wore throughout the film.
While made to take advantage of the ongoing 1970s CB radio fad, the film added to the craze. Though the film Moonrunners (1975) is the precursor to the television series The Dukes of Hazzard (1979–1985), from the same creator and with many identical settings and concepts, the popularity of Smokey and the Bandit and similar films helped get the Dukes series on the air. Three actors from the main cast of The Dukes of Hazzard appear in small uncredited roles in Smokey and the Bandit: Ben Jones, John Schneider, and Sonny Shroyer (who played a police officer in both). In return, Reynolds portrayed Boss Hogg (originally portrayed by Sorrell Booke) in the film adaptation The Dukes of Hazzard (2005). Reynolds is referenced by name in several early episodes of the series.

Casting
Before Gleason was cast in the film, Richard Boone was originally considered for the role of Buford T. Justice. Sally Field only accepted the part after her agent advised her that she needed a big movie role on her résumé. Universal executives initially resisted casting Field, claiming she was not attractive enough, but Reynolds insisted on her involvement. Field enjoyed making the film, but remembers that virtually the entire project was improvised.

Filming
Principal photography of the film began on August 30, 1976. The movie was primarily filmed in Georgia, in the cities of McDonough, Jonesboro, and Lithonia. The scenes set in Texarkana were filmed in Jonesboro and the surrounding area and many of the chase scenes were filmed in the surrounding areas on Highway 54 between Fayetteville and Jonesboro for a majority of the driving scenes, Mundy's Mill Road, Main Street in Jonesboro, Georgia State Route 400, I-85 (Pleasant Hill exit) and in McDonough. However, the scene where they drive through the Shell gas station was filmed in Ojai, California, on the corner of Ojai Avenue and El Paseo Road. Much of the surrounding scene comes from that immediate vicinity. The scene featuring the racetrack was filmed at Lakewood Speedway at the old Lakewood Fairgrounds on Atlanta's south side. The roller coaster in the movie was the Greyhound. It had not been used for some time and was repainted for the film. It was destroyed in Smokey and the Bandit II and in a flashback scene in Part 3. The area around Helen, Georgia, was used for some locations. The scene where Sheriff Justice's car has the door knocked off by a passing semi-truck was shot on Georgia State Route 75, 3 miles (4.8 km) north of Helen. The tow truck driver was a local garage owner, Berlin Wike. Reynolds and Field began dating during the filming.According to an interview with Susie McIver Ewing on The RetroZest Podcast, she was picked to play the role of Hot Pants Hilliard after the dailies footage (shot in the Atlanta area) of the original actress playing the role was inadvertently destroyed on its way from Atlanta to Los Angeles. The new Hot Pants scene had to quickly be refilmed as a part of a second unit in the San Fernando Valley and was shot at a drive-in restaurant near Hansen Dam named Baby Beef Burgers, which has since been demolished. This same restaurant was used for a scene in the 1983 Stephen King Movie Christine, which was ultimately cut in the final film (it can be viewed as a deleted scene on the DVD release of the film).

Vehicles
Hal Needham saw an advertisement for the soon-to-be-released 1977 Pontiac Trans Am and knew right away that it would be the Bandit's car, or, as Needham referred to it, a character in the movie. He contacted Pontiac and an agreement was made that four 1977 Trans Ams and two Pontiac LeMans four-door sedans would be provided for the movie. The Trans Ams were actually 1976-model cars with 1977 front ends (from 1970 to 1976, both the Firebird/Trans Am and Chevrolet Camaro have two round headlights and in 1977, the Firebird/Trans Am was changed to four rectangular headlights, and the Camaro remained unchanged). The decals were changed to 1977-style units, as evidenced by the engine size callouts on the hood scoop being in liters rather than cubic inches, as had been the case in 1976. The hood scoop on these cars says "6.6 LITRE", which, in 1977, would have denoted an Oldsmobile 403-equipped car or a non-W-72, 180 hp version of the 400 Pontiac engine.
The cars were 1976 models, the engines fitted to them were 455ci power plants, the last year these engines were offered for sale before withdrawal. All four of the cars were badly damaged during production, one of which was all but destroyed during the jump over the dismantled Mulberry bridge. The Trans Am used for said jump was equipped with a booster rocket, the same type that was used by Evel Knievel during his failed Snake River Canyon jump. Needham served as the driver for the stunt (in place of Reynolds), while Lada St. Edmund was in the same car (in place of Field). By the film's ending, the final surviving Trans Am and LeMans were both barely running and the other cars had become parts donors to keep them running. This gives rise to various continuity errors with Justice's patrol car, which during some chase sequences is shown with a black rear fender, which then reverts to the car's bronze color again in later scenes. When it is finally torn off along with the car's roof in the impact with the girder, the missing fender still reappears later on in the film. The Burdettes' car is a 1974 Cadillac Eldorado convertible painted in a "Candy Red" color scheme and is seen briefly at the beginning of the movie and in the final scene as the Bandit, the Snowman, Fred the dog, and Frog use it to make their escape. Three Kenworth W900A short-frame semi trucks, driven by Reed, were each equipped with 38-inch sleepers. Two units were 1974 models, as evidenced by standard silver Kenworth emblems on the truck grille, and one unit was a 1973 model, as evidenced by the gold-painted Kenworth emblem on the truck's grille, signifying Kenworth's 50 years in business. The paint code for each truck was coffee brown with gold trims and the 48-foot (15 m) mural trailer used was manufactured by Hobbs Trailers in Texas with a non-operational Thermo King Refrigeration unit. This is obvious, because there is no fuel tank on the underside of the trailer to power the refrigeration unit, and the unit is never heard running.

Legal status of Coors beer
In 1977, Coors was unavailable for sale east of Oklahoma. Its lack of additives and preservatives meant that Coors could spoil in one week without refrigeration, explaining the film's 28-hour deadline. A 1974 Time magazine article explains that Coors was so coveted for its lack of stabilizers and preservatives, and Coors Banquet Beer had a brief renaissance. Future President Gerald Ford, after a trip to Colorado, hid it in his luggage to take it back to Washington, D.C. President Dwight D. Eisenhower had a steady supply airlifted by the Air Force to Washington. Carl Yastrzemski of the Boston Red Sox would bring several cases after playing on the West Coast, by stashing them in the equipment trunks on the team's plane. Frederick Amon smuggled it from Colorado to North Carolina and sold it for four times the retail price.Coors is still brewed just outside Denver, Colorado. It is now sold in all states as Coors ships it in refrigerated train cars and bottled locally and sold in different parts of the country including the eastern US states.

Soundtrack
The theme music "East Bound and Down" was sung and co-written by Reed (credited under his birth name, Jerry Hubbard) and Dick Feller. It became Reed's signature song and is on multiple albums, including Country Legends and his live album Jerry Reed "Live!" (Still). In 1991, it was arranged for orchestra by Crafton Beck and recorded by Erich Kunzel and the Cincinnati Pops Orchestra for their album Down on the Farm. Several other groups, such as the U.S. rock band Tonic and U.K.-based country cover band We Be Ploughin' have also covered it. Reed also penned and performed the song for the opening credits, entitled "The Legend", which tells of some of the Bandit's escapades before the events of the film, and the ballad "The Bandit", which is in several versions in the movie and on the soundtrack. Bill Justis is the first name on the credits for the soundtrack, as he composed and arranged original music throughout the film. Musicians such as Beegie Adair and George Tidwell played on the soundtrack. Five-string banjo player Bobby Thompson is prominent toward the end of "East Bound and Down". The soundtrack album was released in 1977 on vinyl, cassette, and 8-track through MCA Records.

Track listing
Reception
Box office
Smokey and the Bandit was a sleeper hit. It premiered at Radio City Music Hall in New York City, where it performed badly. It then opened in just the South of the United States over the Memorial Day weekend and grossed $2,689,851 in 386 theaters. By the end of June, it had played in major Southern markets, including Charlotte, Atlanta, Jacksonville, New Orleans, Memphis, Dallas, and Oklahoma City, grossing $11.9 million. It opened in other Northern states at the end of July. With an original budget of $5.3 million (cut to $4.3 million two days before initial production), the film eventually grossed $126,737,428 in North America, making it the second-highest-grossing movie of 1977 (only Star Wars earned more, with $221.3 million). The worldwide gross is estimated at over $300 million. Reynolds said in 2015 that he most enjoyed this film, and had the most fun making it, of his career.

Critical response
Critical reception was largely positive. On the review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, it has a 78% rating based on 32 reviews. The site's consensus states: "Not much in the head but plenty beneath the hood, Smokey and the Bandit is infectious fun with plenty of car wrecks to keep your eyes glued".Film critic Leonard Maltin gave the film a good rating (3 stars out of a possible 4) and characterized it as "about as subtle as The Three Stooges, but a classic compared to the sequels and countless rip-offs which followed". In his review in the Chicago Tribune, Gene Siskel gave the film two stars and complained that the film failed to tell the audience when the clock started on the beer run, thus reducing suspense. He claimed that the Bandit is never made aware of Frog's leaving Junior at the altar, which is why the Bandit continually asks why a Texas sheriff is chasing him. The film's editors, Walter Hannemann and Angelo Ross, were nominated for the Academy Award for Best Film Editing.
Alfred Hitchcock claimed that the film was one of his favorites. Upon meeting Reynolds, Billy Bob Thornton told him that Americans from the region where the film is set consider the film to be less cinema and more documentary. Smokey and the Bandit was released in the United Kingdom on August 28 and was a success there, garnering positive reviews.
American Film Institute Lists
AFI's 100 Years...100 Laughs – Nominated
AFI's 100 Years...100 Thrills – Nominated
AFI's 100 Years...100 Heroes and Villains:
Bandit (Bo Darville) – Nominated Hero

Cultural impact
Pontiac Trans Am
After the debut of the film, the Pontiac Trans Am became wildly popular, with sales almost doubling within two years of the film's release. It outsold its Chevrolet Camaro counterpart for the first time. Reynolds was given the 1977 vehicle used during promotion of the film as a gift, though the car itself never actually appeared in the film. Because of the popularity of the film and the sales success of the Trans Am, the president of Pontiac Alex Mair promised to supply Reynolds with a Trans Am each year. Due to his financial difficulties in 2014, Reynolds put his vast collection of artwork and memorabilia up for auction, including the Trans Am. High estimates for the car were up to $80,000, but the actual sale price was $450,000. Also up for auction was a go-kart replica of the car, which sold for nearly $14,000. In 2015 a Florida-based automobile customization company built 77 Trans Ams modeled after the car that Reynolds drove in the film. These new models were built off the same Camaro platform, came with the Pontiac arrowhead, flaming bird, and Bandit logos, and the instrument panels, center consoles, and hood scoops emulating their 1977 counterparts, and were signed by Reynolds. Some differences included the use of a supercharged 454-CID (7.4-liter) Chevrolet-sourced engine that put out 840 HP, and four round headlights, which appeared on the 1967–69 Firebirds/Trans Ams only; the actual 1977–81 models had rectangular headlights.

Diablo sandwich
The "diablo sandwich" ordered by Sheriff Justice in the Arkansas barbecue restaurant scene has entered popular culture as a minor reference to the film. Though no authoritative source identifies the composition of the sandwich, there are several possibilities. A segment of the CMT program Reel Eats used a sloppy joe-style recipe consisting of seasoned ground beef, corn, and sour cream. Another proposal, based more closely on images from the film and the shooting location of the scene (at an Old Hickory House restaurant in Georgia), is pulled pork and hot sauce on a hamburger bun. Other sources in East Texas (from whence Sheriff Justice hails) are familiar with the popular regional delicacy known as the Diablo Sandwich. It consists of any of the various Louisiana-style hot sauces on Texas toast-style bread alongside the fourth most famous product of Pittsburg, Texas (behind Pilgrim's Pride, Cavender's, and Carroll Shelby)—Pittsburg Hot Links.

The Bandit Run
The first run in 2007 to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the movie, The Bandit Run was the brainchild of Dave Hall, owner of Restore A Muscle Car. A group of Trans Am owners and fans of the movie take part in an annual road trip from Texarkana to Jonesboro, recreating the route taken by the characters in the film. The Bandit Run quickly became a fixture, celebrating the 40th anniversary of the movie with a special 2017 screening of the film attended by Reynolds and a recreation of the jump undertaken by the Bandit and Frog across a river.

Mobil 1 commercial
In 2014, petroleum company Mobil 1 produced television commercials, featuring then-NASCAR driver Tony Stewart, closely based on the film. Called Smoke is the Bandit and playing on Stewart's nickname, the commercials featured him as the Bandit opposite commentators Darrell Waltrip as the Snowman and Jeff Hammond as Buford T. Justice. The story replaced the Coors beer with Mobil 1 products. The advertisements lampoon the film and feature a Pontiac Trans Am and a cover version of the song East Bound and Down. The commercials were produced after Stewart mentioned that the movie was one of his favorites.

Television censorship and alternative versions
When Smokey and the Bandit first aired on American network television in the early 1980s, censors were faced with the challenge of toning down the raw language of the original film. For this purpose, they overdubbed dialogue deemed offensive, which was common practice. The most noted change made for network broadcast was the replacing of Buford's often-spoken phrase "sumbitch" (a contraction of "son of a bitch"; usually in reference to the Bandit) with the phrase "scum bum". This phrase achieved a level of popularity with children and the 2007 Hot Wheels release of the 1970s Firebird Trans Am has "scum bum" emblazoned on its tail.
Except for Gleason, the original actors mostly redubbed their lines for the television version. Actor Henry Corden, who voiced Fred Flintstone after original performer Alan Reed died the same year the film was released, was used to replace a considerable amount of Sheriff Justice's dialogue. In the U.K., the heavily dubbed version was shown for several years, particularly by the BBC. However, in more recent years, the original version has been shown (on ITV, a commercial channel), usually with the stronger language edited out, often quite awkwardly. The theatrical release has a few lines deleted, including an edit in which Sheriff Justice tells a state trooper to "fuck off" after the sheriff called his vehicle "a piece of crap". His expletive is obscured when a passing big rig sounds its horn. At the time, using "fuck" would immediately require an R rating and this self-censorship allowed the film to avoid this rating and reach a much larger audience. However, the scene and the obscured expletive were played for comedy value and written as such, with the passing truck being the gag of the scene more than a way to avoid the censors.
In 2006, a DVD re-release was issued of Smokey and the Bandit featuring a digitally remastered audio track with 5.1 Dolby-compatible surround sound. Many of the film's original sounds were replaced. For instance, the diesel engine start and run-up sequence in the opening sequence of the film were completely dubbed over with a new sound. A few other examples of sound effect replacement occur when the Bandit takes off after getting the reluctant Cletus involved in the bet, the Bandit comes to a screeching halt on a roadway moments before picking up Carrie, and when Buford's car top comes off. Some of the original sound effects (such as Cletus's dog Fred barking) and music (such as the final chase to the Southern Classic) were removed and not replaced. Earlier DVD releases and the 40th Anniversary Blu-ray of the film have the original soundtrack intact. Major portions of the audio background have been modified with different engine sounds or tire squeals from the original film. The updated version of the film features sound inaccurate for what would be produced by the Trans Am or the numerous other Pontiac vehicles in the film. The original film had correct sounds that were usually recorded live as the action took place.

Sequels
The film was followed by two sequels: Smokey and the Bandit II (1980) and Smokey and the Bandit Part 3 (1983). The second film was a modest box office success, earning $66.1 million against a $17 million budget.
The third film – which had no involvement from either Hal Needham or Sally Field and contained only a short cameo appearance by Burt Reynolds – revolved entirely around Jackie Gleason's character, was panned by critics, and was a box office bomb, earning only $7 million against a $9 million budget.

Television spin-off films
A series of four made-for-TV spin-off films (Bandit Goes Country, Bandit Bandit, Beauty and the Bandit, and Bandit's Silver Angel) were produced in 1994 for Universal Television's Action Pack with actor Brian Bloom playing a younger version of the Bandit. The three original films introduced two generations of the Pontiac Trans Am and the Dodge Stealth in the television movies.

Television series
In October 2020, a Smokey and the Bandit TV series was revealed to be in development, with a pilot written by David Gordon Green and Brian Sides and also executive produced with his Rough House confederates Jody Hill, Danny McBride and Brandon James, as well as Seth MacFarlane and Erica Huggins of Fuzzy Door.

See also
The Cannonball Run
Hooper
Passage 5:
Smokey and the Bandit II
Smokey and the Bandit II is a 1980 American action comedy film directed by Hal Needham, and starring Burt Reynolds, Sally Field, Jerry Reed, Jackie Gleason and Dom DeLuise. The film is the sequel to the 1977 film Smokey and the Bandit.
The film was originally released in the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Australia and several other, mainly Commonwealth, countries as Smokey and the Bandit Ride Again.
The plot centers on Bo "Bandit" Darville (Burt Reynolds) and Cledus "Snowman" Snow (Jerry Reed), transporting an elephant to the GOP National Convention, with Sheriff Buford T. Justice (Jackie Gleason) once again in hot pursuit.

Plot
Big Enos Burdette is in a literal mudslinging campaign against John Conn for Governor of Texas. After failing to get the outgoing governor's endorsement, Big Enos overhears him on the phone ordering a crate in Miami to be delivered in nine days to the Republican National Convention in Dallas. Burdette schemes to earn the governor's endorsement and have the crate delivered to the convention in his name and tracks down Cledus "Snowman" Snow and offers him and Bo "Bandit" Darville $200,000 to do the run. Cledus takes the Burdettes to Bandit to make the offer in person, but Bandit has become a heavy drinker since breaking up with Carrie ("Frog") and is drunk when the Burdettes arrive and double the payoff to $400,000. Cledus accepts on Bandit's behalf, but adds that Big Enos should give them half in advance, to which they agree. Cledus is ecstatic, but Bandit begins to miss Carrie.
Cledus calls Carrie, who is back in Texarkana and again about to marry Junior when Cledus calls offering her $50,000 to help out; she agrees and again becomes a runaway bride. Though she still has feelings for Bandit, when Carrie arrives, she initially intones she is only in it for the money, and she and Cledus work on getting Bandit off the booze and back into shape. She then trades in Junior's car for a new Trans Am. The group arrive at the pier in Miami only to find out the manifest is quarantined for three weeks. They return later that night to steal it, only to find the "package" is a live elephant (the G.O.P. mascot) which Cledus names "Charlotte" after his aunt. When Bandit removes a splinter from Charlotte's foot, she takes a liking to him.
Soon after the trio start off for Dallas, they are accosted for the first of several times by Sheriff Justice, but Bandit outwits him and they escape. En route, they stop at a remote fuel station and notice something wrong with Charlotte. Moments later, an ambulance pulls in with an Italian gynecologist in the back; "Doc" is initially reluctant to help, but when his driver speeds off unknowingly leaving him stranded, he asks to hitch a ride with them, agreeing to watch Charlotte.
Doc later finds that Charlotte is pregnant and due to give birth any time, but Bandit is determined to stay on schedule, but Cledus and Frog refuse to they wanted to make Charlotte comfortable. Entering Louisiana, Doc says that Charlotte is almost in labor and needs to be off her feet. Cledus chooses they all need a break and they go to a nearby nightclub where Don Williams is headlining.  When Carrie sees Bandit scribbling on a napkin a picture of Charlotte cradled by suspended netting to keep her off her feet, she angrily leaves, but not before telling Bandit that she will come back only when he likes himself again. Later that night, a drunken Bandit makes his drawing a reality, and Doc agrees that his idea will work.
Buford intends to call for help from his brothers Reggie, a Mountie Sergeant in Quebec, and Gaylord, an effeminate Texas State Patrolman. Later, as Bandit and Cledus enter Texas, Buford lures the Bandit into a trap: a mass of 40 Texas Patrol and Mountie cruisers pursuing him across a desert basin. Bandit orders Cledus to get to Dallas, but he enlists a large convoy of his trucker pals and comes to Bandit's rescue instead, wrecking nearly all of the cruisers in a giant demolition derby while Doc and Charlotte watch from the sidelines. The two escape by crossing a makeshift trailer bridge with Buford and his brothers in pursuit. Two of the trucks pull away, resulting in Gaylord and Reggie's cruisers crashing in the ensuing gap before they can cross, but Buford is still in pursuit, though his cruiser is barely functioning.
Cledus begs Bandit to stop at a safari reserve, where Charlotte finally gives birth to her baby. Bandit is ready to load them both back up in the truck, but Cledus refuses and then knocks Bandit down when he insults him and was fed with Bandit's selfishness. When he sees Charlotte in tears, Bandit finally comes to his senses and apologizes and realises that taking care of Charlotte and caring for others is more important than $400,000.
Bandit later finds Carrie and tells her that he likes himself now, and that he does not want to be without her. He then tells her that he has not yet taken Charlotte to Dallas, but they can still make it. Carrie is overjoyed when she sees Charlotte's baby, and Bandit asks Charlotte's permission for him and Carrie to get hitched, to which Charlotte trumpets her approval; Doc, now riding in the cab with Cledus and Fred, also voices his approval, and they all drive away with Charlotte and her baby in tow in circus carts on their way to Dallas, with Buford still in pursuit, now driving a Greyhound bus.

Cast
Burt Reynolds as Bo "The Bandit" Darville
Jackie Gleason as Sheriff Buford T. Justice / Gaylord Justice (credited as Ms. Jackie Gleason) / Reginald Van Justice
Jerry Reed as Cledus "The Snowman" Snow
Dom DeLuise as Dr. Frederico "Doc" Carlucci
Sally Field as Carrie "Frog"
Pat McCormick as Enos "Big Enos" Burdette
Paul Williams as Enos "Little Enos" Burdette
David Huddleston as John Conn
Mike Henry as Junior Justice
John Anderson as The Governor
Brenda Lee as Nice Lady
The Statler Brothers as Themselves:
Phil Balsley
Lew DeWitt
Don Reid
Harold Reid
"Mean Joe" Greene as himself
Mel Tillis as Fairground Owner
Joe Klecko as himself
Don Williams as himself
Terry Bradshaw as himself
Nancy Lenehan as Ramona
John Megna as P.T.
Chuck Yeager as Party Guest
John Robert Nicholson as The Patient
1980 Pontiac Trans Am as "Son of Trigger"

Production
Smokey and the Bandit II was filmed simultaneously with The Cannonball Run, in which Burt Reynolds and Dom DeLuise also starred. Football players Joe Klecko and Terry Bradshaw also appear in both films.
It is the first film to feature director Hal Needham's "Blooper Reel Credit Crawl" at the end, in that a collection of bloopers and outtakes from the film showed on one side of the screen while the closing credits slowly scrolled up the other side. Cannonball Run, also directed by Needham, used this same technique.
Buford's brothers were both portrayed by Gleason; "Reggie" was a Canadian version of "Reginald Van Gleason III", a popular character from Gleason's television show.
The film was written and produced before it was announced that the 1980 Republican National Convention would be held in Detroit rather than Dallas.
Many of the movie's scenes take place in northern Palm Beach County, especially at Burt Reynolds' ranch in Jupiter, Florida.
Although the Bandit again sticks to a Pontiac Trans Am, this time a 1980 Turbo model with five color decals unlike 1981's single color decals, the Snowman switches to a 1980 GMC General, silver with blue trim with the same mural on the trailer as in the original film. This "new rig" suggests that the pair were successful in the "double or nothing" wager offered by the Burdettes at the end of the first film, where they were persuaded to drive from Atlanta to Boston and back in 18 hours to buy clam chowder and bring it to the Burdettes.
A world-record automobile jump was captured on film during the "roundup sequence", when stuntman Gary Davis jumped a 1974 Dodge Monaco over 150 feet. Davis suffered compressed vertebrae as a result of a hard landing.
The roundup sequence in the desert shows many new Pontiac Le Mans sedans decorated as police cars being destroyed. The cars were originally ordered by a car rental agency in Phoenix, who refused to accept the delivery when they discovered the cars were not equipped with air conditioning. Pontiac took the cars back and eventually gave them to the producers to be used in the film.

Soundtrack
Smokey and the Bandit 2: Original Soundtrack was released on vinyl, cassette tape and 8-track tape by MCA Records in 1980.

Track listing
Reception
Box office
Smokey and the Bandit II grossed $10,883,835 in its opening weekend, the second highest ever at the time, behind Star Trek: The Motion Picture. It also set a record for an opening week, with a gross of $18,108,031. It was the eighth-most-popular 1980 film at the United States and Canada box office earning $66,132,626. This box office income inspired a third film.

Critical response
The film received almost completely negative reviews from critics who felt that it suffered badly in comparison to the original. On Rotten Tomatoes, it has an approval rating of 29% based on reviews from seven critics. Roger Ebert gave it a one out of four stars and stated that there was "[in 1980] no need for this movie. That's true of most sequels, but it's especially true of Smokey and the Bandit II, which is basically just the original movie done again, not as well ... how can I say it's lazy when it has 50 trucks doing stunts in it? Because it takes a lot less thought to fill up a movie with stunts than to create a comedy that's genuinely funny".Burt Reynolds later said that he did not enjoy working on the film at all, feeling that it was an unnecessary sequel put together by Universal purely for money-making reasons rather than to try making a good picture.

Sequel
The film was followed by another sequel three years later, Smokey and the Bandit Part 3 (1983), in which Reynolds only made a brief cameo appearance, and Sally Field did not appear.
Passage 6:
The Nun and the Bandit
The Nun and the Bandit is an Australian film directed by Paul Cox.

Plot summary
In the 1940s, two outlaw brothers kidnap their wealthy 14-year-old second cousin, but things get complicated when her chaperoning nun refuses to abandon her charge.

Production
The film was made with finance from Film Victoria and the FFC. It was shot near Bacchus Marsh, Maldon in Victoria.

Release
According to Ozmovies: 

Roadshow was the nominal domestic distributor but refused to release it. The film went straight to video, though it had a small theatrical release in Canada thanks to Alliance.
The film was screened at the short-lived Halls Gap Film Festival in the Grampians on Sunday, 8 November 1992, with Cox present, though it had also had a "world premiere" at the Melbourne Film Festival earlier in the year.Cox called the movie "minimal filmmaking":

It's the very first time I read a book that I wanted to film, because I normally don't believe the film has much to do with the novel. I wasn't at the screening at the Melbourne Film Festival but I never want to screen a film at a festival again. That screening actually killed the release. It got bad reviews in a few places, so Roadshow wouldn't even release it. I think that as an Australian bush film, it is a very, very original film, a highly original piece. The forest, the beauty of the land, that's the altar, and the sacrifice is the innocence and youth. You have a sacrifice on an altar. But it gave me enormous satisfaction because the finished film is very nicely tuned, minimal when you look at the way it's crafted... But that's not what the reviewers want, a bush film like this. That's not very Australian, is it?
Passage 7:
Hal Needham
Hal Brett Needham (March 6, 1931 – October 25, 2013) was an American stuntman, film director, actor, writer, and NASCAR team owner. He is best known for his frequent collaborations with actor Burt Reynolds, usually in films involving fast cars, such as Smokey and the Bandit (1977), Hooper (1978), The Cannonball Run (1981) and Stroker Ace (1983). 
In his later years, Needham moved out of stunt work, and focused his energy on the world land speed record project. In 2001, Needham received a Lifetime Achievement Award from the Taurus World Stunt Awards, and in 2012, he was awarded a Governors Award by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.

Early years
Needham was born in Memphis, Tennessee, the son of Edith May (née Robinson) and Howard Needham. He was the youngest of three children. Raised in Arkansas and Missouri, Needham served in the United States Army as a paratrooper during the Korean War, worked as a treetopper (an arborist who performs tree topping services),
and was a billboard model for Viceroy Cigarettes while beginning a career in Hollywood as a motion picture stuntman.

Career
Needham's first break was as the stunt double for actor Richard Boone on the popular TV western Have Gun, Will Travel.  Needham trained under John Wayne's stunt double Chuck Roberson and quickly became one of the top stuntmen of the 1960s on such films as How the West Was Won, The Bridge at Remagen, McLintock!, The War Lord, and Little Big Man. He doubled regularly for Clint Walker and Burt Reynolds. He played a cowboy in an episode of the TV Western Gunsmoke (S8E36 - “The Odyssey of Jubal Tanner”). Needham moved into stunt coordinating and directing second unit action, while designing and introducing air bags and other innovative equipment to the industry. Needham at one time lived in Reynolds' guesthouse for the better part of 12 years.In 1971, he and fellow stuntmen Glenn Wilder and Ronnie Rondell formed Stunts Unlimited. Needham had written a screenplay titled Smokey and the Bandit and his friend Reynolds offered him the chance to direct. The film was a huge hit, and the two followed it with Hooper, Smokey and the Bandit II, The Cannonball Run, and Stroker Ace. Needham also directed the TV pilots Stunts Unlimited (1980) and Stockers (1981), neither of which was picked up as a series. His final theatrical release as director was the 1986 BMX film Rad.
In 1977, Gabriel Toys introduced the "Hal Needham Western Movie Stunt Set" complete with a cardboard old west saloon movie set, lights and props, a toy movie camera and a spring-launched Hal Needham action figure that would break through a balcony railing, land on breakaway table and chairs and crash through a window. They were only manufactured for a short time and have since become highly collectible.
Needham moved out of stunt work, focusing his energy on the World Land Speed Record project that eventually became the Budweiser Rocket, driven by stuntman Stan Barrett. The team failed to set an officially sanctioned World land speed record with the vehicle, and their claims to have broken the sound barrier in 1979 have been heavily disputed. In the 1980s, he and Reynolds co-owned the Mach 1 Racing team, which fielded the Skoal Bandit No. 33 car in the NASCAR Winston Cup Series for Harry Gant. In 1986, Needham, alongside William L. Fredrick, was awarded a Scientific and Engineering Award for his efforts in developing the Shotmaker Elite camera car and crane.In 2001, Needham received a Lifetime Achievement Award from the Taurus World Stunt Awards. In 2012, he was awarded a Governors Award by the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences, where he was introduced by Quentin Tarantino.Needham and his relationship with Reynolds inspired the Cliff Booth/Rick Dalton friendship in Tarantino's 2019 film Once Upon a Time in Hollywood.

Rocket car
Needham was the owner of the Budweiser Rocket car, a vehicle intended to break the speed of sound on land.

Death
Needham died on October 25, 2013 in Los Angeles, California, aged 82, shortly after being diagnosed with cancer.

Bibliography
Needham, Hal (2011). Stuntman!: My Car-Crashing, Plane-Jumping, Bone-Breaking, Death-Defying Hollywood Life. New York: Little, Brown and Company. ISBN 978-0-316-07899-3. OCLC 548642135.

Filmography as actor
Filmography as director
Passage 8:
Perdón, viejita
Perdón, viejita is a 1927 silent Argentine film directed and written by José A. Ferreyra. Ferreyra was born on 28 August 1889 in Buenos Aires, Argentina. He was a director and writer also known for Bewitching Kisses (1937) and La vuelta al Bulín (1926). Ferreyra died on 29 January 1943, at age 53. A fragment (34-minutes) of the film is currently available on YouTube. The restored version will be presented in the San Isidro Film and Music Festival on 15 November. 2016. The nitrate copy of the film was provided by the Fundación Cinemateca Argentina and the restoration work was done by GOTIKA,

Synopsis
Perdón, viejita (which means "Sorry, Old Woman" in English) revolves around a lower-class family: Doña Camila, the aging mother, and Elena and Carlos, her children. Carlos is, unbeknownst to her, a reformed thief. One day he meets Nora, a prostitute, in the park, and decides to bring her home after falling in love with her. Elena, who is being courted by a shady Don Juan, is given a ring as a gift, but Nora takes it away from her complaining that she knows men like Don Juan and the ring is probably stolen. This is evidenced when the police arrive in search for the ring, and Nora takes the fall for Elena.
Prudencio, Elena's other pretender, takes an interest in Don Juan and after following him forces him to accompany him to the police and confess about the stolen ring. Don Juan is then imprisoned and Nora let go, but she feels her honor has been tainted and her meddling has caused trouble to the family, so she leaves and goes back to her job under the wing of El Gavilán ("The Hawker"). Carlos follows suit, and confronts El Gavilán, who in the confrontation wounds Nora from gunshot.
In the epilogue, Nora recovers in bed, nursed by Carlos and Prudencio. Elena, who had confessed to accepting the ring from Don Juan to her mother, comes visit with Doña Camila, who apologizes for her mistrust and scorn of Nora. The family reconciles, and live happily ever after.
Passage 9:
José A. Ferreyra
José A(gustín) Ferreyra (28 August 1889 – 29 January 1943), popularly known as "Negro Ferreyra" (Black Ferreyra, due to his partially African ancestry), was an early Argentine film director, screenwriter and film producer. He was also sometimes credited as production designer.
Ferreyra was born in Vicente López, Gran Buenos Aires. His father was of White European descent, while his mother was Afro-Argentine, likely descended from slaves.He began simultaneously directing and screenwriting for film in 1915, and moved on to success directing films such as Palomas rubias in 1920. His films tended to focus on lower-class family drama, most notably Perdón, viejita (1927), and were filmed on a low budget and with little to no script as a guide. Ferreyra prevailes through the 1920s and 1930s as a distinguished filmmaker of the masses, but was displaced in the late 1930s and early 1940s by big budget cinema. He directed over 40 films and wrote the scripts for the majority of them between 1915 and 1941, working with noted actors such as Libertad Lamarque and Mario Soffici on his screen debut, before moving on to directing.
He died on 29 January 1943 from laryngeal cancer.

Filmography
Chimbela (1939)
La Ley que olvidaron (1938)
Besos Brujos (1937)
Ayúdame a Vivir (1936)
Puente Alsina (1935)
Streets of Buenos Aires (1934)
El Cantar de mi ciudad (1930)
Perdón, viejita (1927)
Muchachita de Chiclana (1926)
La costurerita que dio aquel mal paso (1926)
La vuelta al Bulín (1926)
Mi último tango (1925)
El organito de la tarde (1925)
El arriero de Yacanto (1924)
Mientras Buenos Aires duerme (1924)
Odio serrano (1924)
La Leyenda del puente inca (1923)
Melenita de oro (1923)
Corazón de criolla (1923)
La Maleva (1923)
La Chica de la calle Florida (1922)
La Muchacha del arrabal (1922)
Buenos Aires, ciudad de ensueño (1922)
La Gaucha (1921)
Palomas rubias (1920)
De vuelta al pago (1919)
Campo ajuera (1919)
El tango de la muerte (1917)
Venganza gaucha (1917)
La fuga de Raquel (1916)
La isla misteriosa (1916)
Una noche de garufa (1915)
Passage 10:
The Bandit Trail
The Bandit Trail is a 1941 Western film.

Plot
A cowboy helps rob a bank to get revenge on an unscrupulous banker.

Cast
Tim Holt as Steve Haggerty
Ray Whitley as Smokey
Janet Waldo	as Ellen Grant
Lee 'Lasses' White as Whopper
Morris Ankrum as Red Haggerty
Roy Barcroft as Joel Nesbitt
Glenn Strange as Gang member