Passage 1:
Pauline Auzou
Pauline Auzou (24 March 1775 – 15 May 1835) was a French painter and art instructor, who exhibited at the Paris Salon and was commissioned to make paintings of Napoleon and his wife Marie Louise, Duchess of Parma.

Personal life
Jeanne-Marie-Catherine Desmarquets (sometime written Desmarquest) was born in Paris on 24 March 1775. She assumed the surname La Chapelle when she was adopted by a cousin. In December 1793 she married the stationer Charles-Marie Auzou. Starting in 1794, they had at least two sons, two daughters and a child who did not survive infancy.Jacques-Augustin-Catherine Pajou bought one house of theirs in Fontenay-aux-Roses in 1820.
She died in Paris on 15 May 1835.

Career
In the early late 18th century women were generally prevented from attaining an education in art academies in France, particularly if they did not have money and connections. Auzou attended Jean-Baptiste Regnault's atelier in 1802 along with Sophie Guillemard, Eugénie Delaporte, Caroline Derigny and Henriette Lorimier. She was influenced by another woman artist, Marguerite Gérard, and by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres.

Early in her studies and career, Auzou made paintings of legendary Greek figures. Very unusual for the time, when it was considered nearly underheard of for women to draw or paint nude people, Auzou made studies of nude women and men. Deemed inappropriate, women artists found greater success in creating paintings of women in homey settings, making music or reading.She was a successful artist, first a Neoclassist, who made historic, genre and portrait paintings, including depictions of Napoleon. She received 2,000 to 4,000 francs in stipend payments, for the creation of essentially government mandated paintings of contemporary events, including paintings made of and for Napoleon. Troubadour art, was very much a style made by male artists, but there were several artists like Eugénie Servières, Hortense Haudebourt-Lescot, and Sophie Lemire who added a feminine touch to makes of Caroline, Duchesse de Berry and Empress Josephine and others.The Paris Salon opened up the exhibition to women's works in 1791. Her works were exhibited at the Paris Salon. In 1793, A Bacchante and A study of a head. She made a painting of legendary Daphnis and Phyllis, which was exhibited at the 1795 salon. In 1804, The First Sense of Coquetry was exhibited there. She was awarded a first class medal at the salon in 1806 for her painting of Pickard Elder, which in 1807 was represented in the painting Mr. Pickard and his family. In 1808, she was awarded the medaille de première classe for her work. That year she exhibited Mr. Picard and his family at the salon.She made a painting of Napoleon and his bride shown at the 1810 salon entitled Archduchess Marie-Louise in Compiègne, depicts the newly married Napoleon who looks on fondly, and secondarily, as Marie-Louise is met by her ladys-in-waiting. Other paintings made of the couple by Auzou included a painting of Marie-Louise with her family, Her Majesty the Empress, before Her Marriage, at the Moment of Taking Leave of Her Family. Shown in 1806, Departure for the Duel depicts the family drama as a man looks at his sleeping wife and child before departing for a duel. Like other women artists of this time, Auzou depicted events as they impacted families. In this case, the wife was "condemned to seduction and the child to poverty," according to art critic Pierre-Jean-Baptiste Chaussard. She exhibited at the Paris Salon until 1817 and generally until 1820.Auzou opened an art school for young women, like other women artists, Lizinka de Mirbel and Marie Guilhelmine Benoist, and men. The studio and school were maintained for 20 years. Her book Têtes d'études (English: Head studies) was published in Paris by Didot.Her painting Portrait of a musician is in the collection of the Currier Museum of Art, Manchester, New Hampshire, United States. Two of her works of Empress Marie-Louise are in the collections of The National Museum of Versailles, Palace of Versailles, including Her Majesty the Empress, before Her Marriage, at the Moment of Taking Leave of Her Family. Her works were collected by the Society of Friends to the Arts, Duchess de Berri and the French government. Several of these works were engraved, as well as period genre paintings such as the work engraved by John Norman, Diana of France and Montmorency.

Legacy
Like Constance Mayer, Marguerite Gérard,  Antoinette Haudebourt-Lescot and Marie-Denise Villers, Auzou was one of the successful women artists following the French Revolution:

Despite overt exclusion of women artists from the institutions governing their profession, women artists nevertheless made progress, as a group and as individuals, in the years following the French Revolution.

Works
A Bacchante, exhibited at 1793 Paris Salon
A study of a head, exhibited at 1793 Paris Salon
Agnes de Meranie, 1808
Arrival of Archduchess Marie-Louise in Compiègne (with new husband Napoleon), 1810
Daphnis and Phyllis, exhibited at the 1795 salon
Departure for the Duel, exhibited in 1806
Diana of France and Montgomery, 1814
Her Majesty the Empress, before Her Marriage, at the Moment of Taking Leave of Her Family, Versailles Gallery, 1812
Louis-Benoît Picard and his family, 1807
Archduchess Marie-Louise in Compiègne, exhibited at the 1810 salon
Picard the Elder, 1806, won a medal of honor in 1806 and first prize at the 1808 Paris Salon
Portrait of a girl, bust length, est. 1790s, Snite Museum of Art, University of Notre Dame
Portrait of a musician, oil on canvas, 1809
Portraits of Volney, 1795
Regnault, 1800
The First Sense of Coquetry, exhibited at the 1804 salon
The Return of Charles X
Passage 2:
Maria d'Este
Maria d'Este (8 December 1644 – 20 August 1684) was a Modenese princess and Duchess of Parma as the wife of Ranuccio II Farnese, Duke of Parma. She was a daughter of Francesco I d'Este, Duke of Modena and Maria Caterina Farnese.

Family
Maria was the eighth child and fourth daughter of Francesco I d'Este, the reigning Duke of Modena since 1629.  Her mother was a daughter of Ranuccio I Farnese, Duke of Parma.

Biography
Maria was born in Modena to Francesco I d'Este, Duke of Modena and his consort Maria Caterina Farnese. A member of the House of Este, she was a princess of Modena by birth.
In order to cement relations between the House of Farnese, Maria's older sister Isabella d'Este had been married to Ranuccio Farnese, Duke of Parma, son of Odoardo Farnese, Duke of Parma and Margherita de' Medici in 1664. Isabella died in 1666 as a result of childbirth. In order to preserve the union between the two ducal houses, the unmarried Maria became Ranuccio's next consort.
A wedding was signed by proxies in October 1667 and formally in Modena on 1 January 1668 she was duly married to the widowed Ranuccio Farnese. The marriage produced seven children; she also had two stillborn children. Out of the seven, three survived infancy, however none of them went on to have further children.
Maria died in Parma at the age of 39. Her husband survived her by ten years. Her two youngest sons, Francesco and Antonio, each became the Duke of Parma. Antonio was the last member of the House of Farnese, the duchy of Parma going to the Spanish House of Bourbon in 1731.
Maria was buried at the Sanctuary of Santa Maria della Steccata in Parma on 21 August 1684. She has no surviving descendants.

Issue
Isabella Francesca Maria Lucia Farnese (14 December 1668 – 9 July 1718). She was a Benedictine nun in Santa Maria di Campagna Monastery of Piacenza;
Vittoria Maria Francesca Farnese (24 December 1669 – 15 September 1671);
A son (24 June 1671 – 28 June 1671);
Vittoria Farnese (19 November 1672), twin of Caterina;
Caterina Farnese (19 November 1672), twin of Vittoria;
A son (26 December 1674);
Eleonora Farnese (1 September 1675 – 3 November 1675);
Francesco Maria Farnese (19 May 1678 – 26 February 1727) succeeded as Duke of Parma; married Dorothea Sophie of the Palatinate, had issue;
Antonio Francesco Farnese, Duke of Parma (29 November 1679 – 20 January 1731) married Enrichetta d'Este, no issue.

Ancestry
References and notes


== See also ==
Passage 3:
Vernon Richards
Vernon Richards (born Vero Benvenuto Costantino Recchioni, 19 July 1915 – 10 December 2001) was an Anglo-Italian anarchist, editor, author, engineer, photographer, and companion of Marie-Louise Berneri.Richards' founding of the paper Spain and the World in 1936 lead to the revival of the British anarchist publisher Freedom Press and the subsequent publishing of the newspaper War Commentary, followed in 1945 by the relaunch of Freedom newspaper.
Richards and Berneri were joined in Freedom Press by a group of regular contributors including John Hewetson, Tony Gibson, Philip Sansom, George Woodcock and Colin Ward. Freedom remained under Richards' editorship until 1968 and he retained a strong influence over Freedom Press until his retirement. He also authored and translated a number of books including Lessons of the Spanish Revolution (1953) and Errico Malatesta: His Life & Ideas (1965).

Biography
Richards was born in 1915 in Soho, London to the Italian militant anarchist railway worker Emidio Recchioni and his wife Costanza (née Benericetti) where they ran a popular delicatessen, King Bomba. Emidio had fled Italy following a prison escape with Errico Malatesta. Friends speculated that Richards inherited his single-mindedness from his father, though Richards later described his father as a "bourgeois terrorist".Richards was educated at Emanuel School in Wandsworth and studied civil engineering at King's College London. He then worked as a railway engineer.In 1931 in Paris Richards met Marie Louise Berneri, daughter of Camillo and Giovanna Berneri, and began a long-distance relationship. Richards and Camillo together edited the bilingual Italian and English anti-Mussolini paper Italia Libera/Free Italy, resulting In Richards' deportation from France in 1935.From December 1936 Richards began work on a new anarchist newspaper in London, Spain and the World, reporting on the Spanish Civil War. In 1937 Marie moved to London to join him, marrying him in October 1937 so she could gain British citizenship. At this time he also anglicised his name from Vero Recchioni to Vernon Richards.After the first issue of Spain and the World the paper was taken on by Freedom Press with Richards' as editor, going on to play a leading role in the revival of British anarchism and Freedom Press.Following the fascist victory in the Spanish Civil War Spain and the World was briefly relaunched as Revolt! In November 1939 with the onset of war the paper was renamed again as War Commentary.On 26 April 1945 as an editor of War Commentary Richards was sentenced to nine months in prison along with two contributors, John Hewetson and Philip Sansom, for conspiring to cause disaffection among members of the armed forces under Defence Regulation 39a. The same charges against Berneri were dropped as legally a wife could not be prosecuted for conspiring with her husband – about which she was reportedly furious. Coming at the end of the war, the four day trial at the Old Bailey saw significant press coverage and public controversy.: 186  The arrests led to the formation of the prominent Freedom Defence Committee. The trial also saw an end to Richard's career as an engineer, with Richards' and Berneri deciding to try and earn a living as professional photographers.After Richards' release from prison their friend George Orwell, who was extremely averse to being photographed, allowed Richards and Berneri to photograph him to help them start out. The photos feature a relaxed Orwell at home and in the street and remain in widespread use. The complete set was published in the 1998 book George Orwell at Home (and Among the Anarchists): Essays and Photographs.At this time a split had formed within Freedom Press between anarcho-syndicalists with ties to the Confederación Nacional del Trabajo (CNT) and anarcho-communists associated with Richards and Berneri who aligned more with Errico Malatesta's critique of revolutionary trade unionism. The split saw the painter and War Commentary contributor Cliff Holden hold Richards at gunpoint to extract money for a new paper. Richards' views on the Spanish Civil War, including critiques of the CNT from Freedom and Spain and the World were later republished in the book Lessons of the Spanish Revolution.In December 1948 Berneri gave birth, but the child died shortly afterwards. She then died of a viral infection in April 1949.In the 1950s Richards sold the family store, King Bomba, and in 1968 with his partner Peta Hewetson he moved to Suffolk where he grew and sold vegetables from a smallholding. He also worked as a travel agent, including trips to Francoist Spain and the Soviet Union.Richards formally retired from Freedom Press in 1995. A workaholic, he continued to write books into his eighties, though following Peta Hewetson's death in 1997 he became more reclusive. He died on 10 December 2001 in Hadleigh, Suffolk.In a Guardian obituary Colin Ward, who had worked with Richards for decades, described him as a "ruthless exploiter of others" and a "manipulator" with a noted tendency to lose friends. Richard's papers are held by the International Institute of Social History in Amsterdam.

Publications
Lessons of the Spanish Revolution (1953)
Errico Malatesta: His Life & Ideas (1965)
The Impossibilities of Social Democracy (1978)
Why Work? Arguments for the Leisure Society (1983)
Violence and Anarchism: A Polemic (1983)
Protest without Illusions (1981)
A Weekend Photographer's Notebook (1996)
A Part-Time Photographers Portrait Gallery (1999)
Beauty Is More Than 'In the Eye of the Beholder': Photographs of Women and Children (1999)
George Orwell at Home (and Among the Anarchists). Essays and Photographs (1998)
Passage 4:
Enrichetta d'Este
Princess Enrichetta d'Este (Enrichetta Maria; 27 May 1702 – 30 January 1777) was a Duchess of Parma by marriage to her cousin Antonio Farnese, Duke of Parma. She was the Regent of Parma in 1731 during her alleged pregnancy in the interregnum after her husband's death.

Biography
Early life
Princess Enrichetta was the third daughter of Rinaldo d'Este, Duke of Modena and Duchess Charlotte of Brunswick-Lüneburg. She was named after her maternal grandmother, Benedicta Henrietta of the Palatinate.
Her older brother Prince Francesco was the heir to the duchy of Modena. In 1720 Francesco married Charlotte Aglaé d'Orléans, the daughter of Philippe d'Orléans, the Régent of France during the childhood of King Louis XV. While at the Modenese court, Charlotte Aglaé got on well with Enrichetta and her older sisters Benedetta (1697–1777) and Amalia (1699–1778).
In 1725, Enrichetta was among the princesses seriously considered for marriage to king Louis XV of France, when the list of the original 99 princesses had been reduced to seventeen.  However, the French Prime minister, the Duke of Bourbon, regarded her to be of too inferior rank for the position of queen, and the unstable situation in her family a cause of rejection of her candidacy, and in the end she was removed from the list.

Duchess of Parma
Enrichetta was engaged to Antonio Farnese, Duke of Parma, whose mother Princess Maria d'Este was Enrichetta's aunt.  They were married with magnificent ceremonies in Modena on 5 February 1728, with her brother Francesco acting as proxy for Antonio.
She travelled to Parma where she made a magnificent entry to the city on 6 July 1728, greeted at the Porta San Michele by crowds of cheerers and onlookers. Celebrations in the local area lasted as late as 1730.  Antonio frequently visited the Modenese court and was close to Erichetta's brother.
The marriage had been arranged by Antonio's secretary of state, Count Anvidi, and Bori  coerced an unwilling Antonio to marry Enrichetta, his friend Francesco's sister. The marriage, despite all Antonio's attempts at conception, was childless.

The regency issue
Antonio died on 20 January 1731.  The previous day, he had announced that Enrichetta was pregnant; after his death, a Regency council for the potential heir was formed, consisting of Enrichetta, a bishop, the first Secretary of State and two gentlemen of the Court. 
It was decided that, should the child be female, the duchy of Parma would revert to the Infante Don Carlos (then aged 12), eldest of the three sons of Elisabeth Farnese, wife of Philip V of Spain, niece of Antonio by his older half-brother Odoardo, who had been heir-apparent to the duchy but predeceased their father. Enrichetta was thus invested as Regent of Parma, supported by Imperial troops.Her pregnancy was questioned by the Queen of Spain though her mother, Enrichetta's sister-in-law Countess Palatine Dorothea Sophie of Neuburg, who wished to defend the right of Don Carlos, as well as the Pope, who wished to retract the Duchy to the Papal State.  However, she was supported by the Emperor, who opposed Spanish influence in Parma.  Of the request of Spain, Enrichetta was examined in May 1731 by doctors confirming her pregnancy.  The news was reported around Parma and then around the European courts. Her regency could thus continue, with support by the Emperor. 
On 22 July however, the Second Treaty of Vienna officially recognised the right of the young Infante Don Charles as the Duke of Parma and Piacenza, pursuant to the Treaty of London (1718). When Spain demanded that the delivery of Enrichetta should be a public affair, the Emperor retracted his support to Enrichetta and discontinued the original plan to arranged a simulated birth.Queen Elisabeth in Spain convinced her mother to have Enrichetta examined again on 13 September 1731; it was then reported that there was in fact no child, and the House of Farnese was extinct. Charles of Spain was thus recognised as Duke of Parma and Piacenza, deposing the regency of Enrichetta d'Este. 
Since Charles was still a minor, his maternal grandmother Dorothea Sophie of the Palatinate, Odoardo's widow, was named regent.
Shunned by her father's court in Modena, the dowager duchess moved into the Ducal Palace of Colorno, where she was under virtual house arrest with an escort of Swiss Guards. In December 1731, she was forced to return to the Ducal Palace in Parma in order to return the crown jewels of Parma to Dorothea, who was formally made head of the regency council on 29 December 1731. 
She stayed in Parma, splitting her time between Piacenza, Borgo San Donnino and Cortemaggiore.

Second marriage
On 23 March 1740 in Piacenza, Enrichetta married Prince Leopold of Hesse-Darmstadt (1708-1764), younger son of Landgrave Philip of Hesse-Darmstadt and his wife, Princess Marie Ernestine of Croÿ Havré (1673–1714). Enrichetta and Leopold had no children.
Leopold died in 1764 leaving Enrichetta a widow for the second time. Enrichetta herself died on 30 January 1777 aged seventy four. She was buried at the Convent of the Capuchins, in Fidenza (now church of San Francesco).

Ancestry
Passage 5:
Margaret of Parma
Margaret of Parma (Italian: Margherita di Parma; 5 July 1522 – 18 January 1586) was Governor of the Netherlands from 1559 to 1567 and from 1578 to 1582. She was the illegitimate daughter of the then 22-year-old Holy Roman Emperor Charles V and Johanna Maria van der Gheynst. She was a Duchess of Florence and a Duchess of Parma and Piacenza by her two marriages.

Biography
Margaret's mother, Johanna Maria van der Gheynst, a servant of Count Charles de Lalaing, Seigneur de Montigny, was a Fleming. Margaret was brought up in Mechelen, under the supervision of two powerful Spanish and Austrian Habsburg Imperial family relatives, her great-aunt, the Archduchess Margaret of Austria, and her aunt Mary of Austria, who were successive governors of the Netherlands from 1507 to 1530 and from 1530 to 1555, respectively.Her early life followed a strict routine set forth by her father, Charles V, who used his daughter as part of his plans to secure his empire.In 1527, the year she turned five, she became engaged to the nephew of Pope Clement VII, Alessandro de' Medici, Duke of Florence, to assist her father's ambition in gaining influence in Italy. The marriage negotiations had been initiated in 1526, and in 1529, the agreement was officially signed by her father and the Pope. In 1529, Margaret was acknowledged by her father and allowed to assume the name Margaret of Austria, and in 1533, the 11-year-old girl was brought to live in Italy and educated in the courts of Florence, Rome, and Parma. There, she was taught skills that helped her grow as an independent woman. As Margaret did not spend much time with her husband, she used this time to become exposed to the surrounding Italian culture. Though she was multi-lingual, she preferred the Italian language for the rest of her life.
On 13 June 1536 in Florence, she married Alessandro, who was assassinated on 6 January 1537. On 4 November 1538 in Rome, the 15-year-old widow married Ottavio Farnese, Duke of Parma, the 14-year-old grandson of Pope Paul III. At first she refused to marry him. Although the union proved an unhappy one, it gave her years of experience in Rome, and produced twin sons, one of whom died in infancy. She would continue her studies of the arts and politics while being married to Ottavio. The couple lived separately for much of their lives, and Margaret maintained her own court and chapel. She was in a somewhat difficult position, as the Pope and the Emperor argued about authority over Parma. In 1555, the Farnese family were acknowledged as rulers of Parma by Spain in exchange for the custody of her son.
In 1555, she left Italy for the Netherlands, where she left her son in the care of her half-brother Philip II. Philip appointed her Governor of the Netherlands when he left in 1559 for Spain. As governor, Margaret faced the rising storm of discontent against the Inquisition and Spanish despotism, and Philip had left her but nominal authority. He was determined to pursue his own arbitrary course, and the result was the revolt of the Netherlands.  Margaret was forced to adjust herself to the advice of Cardinal Granvelle, Philip's choice for her chief councilor, who would grow to be greatly disliked in the Netherlands. After Granvelle's exile from the Netherlands in 1564, Margaret was forced to rely on the grandees in her Council. In 1565, an opposition party was formed from the Dutch nobility. Margaret received its complaints and, having no army to put down the dissenters, promised to stop religious repression. In 1566, Iconoclastic riots took place all over the Netherlands but she managed to quell them, with the help of her stadtholders Philip of Noircarmes (who subjugated the cities of Tournai and Valenciennes) in Hainaut and William of Orange in Holland . The next year, Philip sent her military help led by the Duke of Alba. Margaret warned Philip that actions by Alba would lead to catastrophe, but instead of trying to stop Alba, she resigned when she learned that Alba's power of attorney, granted by Philip, superseded her own.In 1567, Margaret retired to L'Aquila in Italy. She was appointed Governor of Abruzzo and Viceroy of Naples,where she had inherited a domain from her late husband. She acted as the adviser to her son and to her royal bastard half-brother, John of Austria. In 1578, her son Alexander Farnese was appointed to the office of governor-general of the Netherlands; Philip appointed her his co-regent, intending that they would balance each other. However, they were unable to work together, and Margaret retired to Namur in 1582. She was given permission by Philip to return to Italy in 1583. She died in Ortona in 1586 and was buried in the church of S. Sisto in Piacenza.
Charlie R. Steen describes her as "a woman dedicated to compromise and conciliation in public affairs."She personally asked to Pope Paul III to authorize the veneration of the Seven Archangels while Antonio del Duca did the same under the protection of the Colonna family.

Issue
Margaret and her second husband Ottavio had:

Charles Farnese (Italian: Carlo Farnese, Spanish: Carlos Farnese, German: Karl Farnese; 27 August 1545 – September 1545), heir to the Duchy of Parma.
Alexander Farnese (27 August 1545 – 3 December 1592), 3rd Duke of Parma; married Infanta Maria of Portugal and had issue.

Coat of arms
Margaret of Austria, as Duchess of Florence and Parma, chose for her device a pearl shining from its shell, with the motto, Decus allatura coronae ("About to bring glory to the crown").

Ancestry
See also
Geuzen

Notes
Passage 6:
Henry Krause
Henry J. "Red" Krause, Jr. (August 28, 1913 – February 20, 1987) was an American football offensive lineman in the National Football League for the Brooklyn Dodgers and the Washington Redskins.  He played college football at St. Louis University.
Passage 7:
Marie Louise, Duchess of Parma
Marie Louise (12 December 1791 – 17 December 1847) was an Austrian archduchess who reigned as Duchess of Parma from 11 April 1814 until her death. She was Napoleon's second wife and as such Empress of the French and Queen of Italy from their marriage on 1 April 1810 until his abdication on 6 April 1814.
As the eldest child of Francis II, Holy Roman Emperor and Emperor of Austria, and his second wife, Maria Theresa of Naples and Sicily, Marie Louise grew up during a period marked by ongoing and unceasing conflict between Austria and revolutionary France. A series of military defeats at the hands of Napoleon Bonaparte had inflicted a heavy human toll on Austria and led Francis to dissolve the Holy Roman Empire. The end of the War of the Fifth Coalition resulted in the marriage of Napoleon and Marie Louise in 1810, which ushered in a brief period of peace and friendship between Austria and the French Empire. Marie Louise agreed to the marriage despite being raised to despise France. With Napoleon, she bore a son, styled the King of Rome at birth, later Duke of Reichstadt, who briefly succeeded him as Napoleon II.
Napoleon's fortunes changed dramatically in 1812 after his failed invasion of Russia. The European powers, including Austria, resumed hostilities towards France in the War of the Sixth Coalition, which ended with the abdication of Napoleon and his exile to Elba. The 1814 Treaty of Fontainebleau gave the Duchies of Parma, Piacenza and Guastalla to Marie Louise, who ruled the duchies until her death.
Marie Louise married morganatically twice after Napoleon's death in 1821. Her second husband was Count Adam Albert von Neipperg (married 1821), an equerry she met in 1814. She and Neipperg had three children. After Neipperg's death in 1829, she married Count Charles-René de Bombelles, her chamberlain, in 1834. Marie Louise died in Parma in 1847.

Early life
Archduchess Marie Louise of Austria (who was given the Latin baptismal name of Maria Ludovica Leopoldina Francisca Theresa Josepha Lucia) was born at the Hofburg Palace in Vienna on 12 December 1791 to Archduke Francis of Austria and his second wife, Maria Theresa of Naples and Sicily. She was named after her grandmother, Marie Louise, Holy Roman Empress. Her father became Holy Roman Emperor a year later as Francis II. Marie Louise was a great-granddaughter of Empress Maria Theresa through both her parents, as they were double first cousins. She was also a maternal granddaughter of Queen Maria Carolina of Naples, Marie Antoinette's favorite sister.
Marie Louise's formative years were during a period of conflict between France and her family. She was brought up to detest France and French ideas. Her upbringing was supervised by her French imperial governess Victoire de Folliot de Crenneville. Marie Louise was influenced by her grandmother Maria Carolina, who despised the French Revolution which ultimately caused the death of her sister, Marie Antoinette. Maria Carolina's Kingdom of Naples had also come into direct conflict with French forces led by Napoleon Bonaparte. The War of the Third Coalition brought Austria to the brink of ruin, which increased Marie Louise's resentment towards Napoleon. The Imperial family was forced to flee Vienna in 1805. Marie Louise took refuge in Hungary and later Galicia before returning to Vienna in 1806. Her father relinquished the title of Holy Roman Emperor but remained Emperor of Austria.
To make her more marriageable, her parents had her tutored in many languages. In addition to her native German, she became fluent in English, French, Italian, Latin, and Spanish.In 1807, when Marie Louise was 15, her mother died after suffering a miscarriage. Less than a year later, Emperor Francis married his first cousin Maria Ludovika Beatrix of Austria-Este, who was four years older than Marie Louise. Nonetheless, Maria Ludovika Beatrix took on a maternal role towards her stepdaughter. She was also bitter towards the French, who had deprived her father of the Duchy of Modena.Another war broke out between France and Austria in 1809, which resulted in defeat for the Austrians again. The Imperial family had to flee Vienna again before the city surrendered on 12 May. Their journey was hampered by bad weather, and they arrived in Buda "wet through, and nearly worn out with fatigue".

Marriage proposal
After escaping an assassination attempt in Vienna, while negotiating the Treaty of Schönbrunn on 12 October 1809, Emperor Napoleon decided that he needed an heir to cement his relatively young Empire. He also sought the validation and legitimization of his Empire by marrying a member of one of the leading royal families of Europe. He began proceedings to divorce Joséphine de Beauharnais, who did not bear him a son, and began searching for a new empress. His wish to marry Grand Duchess Anna Pavlovna of Russia, the youngest sister of Tsar Alexander I of Russia, caused alarm in Austria, who were afraid of being sandwiched between two great powers allied with each other. At the persuasion of Prince Metternich, a marriage between Napoleon and Marie Louise was suggested by Emperor Francis to the Count of Narbonne but no official overture was made by the Austrians. Though officials in Paris and Austria were beginning to accept the possibility of the union, Marie Louise was kept uninformed of developments.Frustrated by the Russians delaying the marriage negotiations, Napoleon rescinded his proposal in late January 1810 and began negotiations to marry Marie Louise with the Austrian ambassador, the Prince of Schwarzenberg. Schwarzenberg signed the marriage contract on 7 February. Marie Louise was informed of the marriage by Metternich. When asked for consent, she replied: "I wish only what my duty commands me to wish."

Wedding
Marie Louise was married by proxy to Napoleon on 11 March 1810 at the Augustinian Church, Vienna. Napoleon was represented by Archduke Charles, the bride's uncle. According to the French ambassador, the marriage "was celebrated with a magnificence that it would be hard to surpass, by the side of which even the brilliant festivities that have preceded it are not to be mentioned". She became Empress of the French and Queen of Italy.
Marie Louise departed Vienna on 13 March, probably expecting never to return. Upon arriving in France she was placed in the custody of Napoleon's sister, who had her put through a symbolic old ritual. Tradition dictated that a royal bride coming to France must keep nothing of her homeland, especially her clothes. Accordingly, Marie Louise was stripped of her dress, corset, stockings, and chemise, leaving her completely naked. Napoleon's sister then made the nude teenager take a bath. She was then redressed in French bridal clothes. Marie Antoinette had been put through a similar ritual when she arrived in France in 1770. She met Napoleon for the first time on 27 March in Compiègne, remarking to him: "You are much better-looking than your portrait."

The civil wedding was held at the Saint Joseph's Church on 1 April 1810. The next day, Napoleon and Marie Louise made the journey to Paris in the coronation coach. The Imperial Guard cavalry led the procession, followed by the herald-at-arms and then the carriages. The Marshals of France rode on each side, near the doors of the carriages. The procession arrived at the Tuileries Palace, and the Imperial couple made their way to the Salon Carré chapel (in the Louvre) for the religious wedding ceremony. The ceremony was conducted by Cardinal Joseph Fesch, Grand Almoner of France and Napoleon's uncle. A Bridal March was composed for the occasion by Ferdinando Paer, and a cantata by Johann Nepomuk Hummel.
Elaborate celebrations continued to be held in May and June 1810. These included a ball, a masque, a sea-battle on the Seine, and a display of fireworks created by Claude-Fortuné Ruggieri, for 4,000 people.By this marriage, Napoleon became the great-nephew-in-law of Louis XVI and Marie-Antoinette.

Marriage to Napoleon
Life as Empress
Marie Louise was an obedient wife and settled in quickly in the French court. She developed a close friendship with her Première dame d'honneur, the Duchess of Montebello, while most of the daily affairs were handled by her Dame d'atour Jeanne Charlotte du Luçay. Napoleon initially remarked that he had "married a womb" to an aide, but their relationship soon grew. He "spared no pains" to please her and claimed at one point to prefer Marie Louise to his first wife Joséphine; while he had loved Joséphine, and though he claimed Joséphine remained his greatest friend even after their amicable divorce, he had not respected her, whereas with Marie Louise, there was "Never a lie, never a debt" — presumably a reference to Joséphine's rumoured extramarital affairs and reputation as a spendthrift. Marie Louise wrote to her father: "I assure you, dear papa, that people have done great injustice to the Emperor. The better one knows him, the better one appreciates and loves him." However, the marriage was not without tension; Napoleon sometimes remarked to aides that Marie Louise was too shy and timid, compared to the outgoing and passionate Josephine, with whom he remained in close contact, upsetting Marie Louise.
The excitement surrounding the wedding ushered in a period of peace and friendship between France and Austria, who had been largely at war for the last two decades. The people of Vienna, who hated Napoleon only months before, were suddenly in full praise of the French Emperor. Flattering letters were sent between Napoleon and Emperor Francis, Empress Maria Ludovika Beatrix and Archduke Charles during the wedding festivities.During public occasions, Marie Louise spoke little due to reserve and timidity, which some observers mistook for haughtiness. She was regarded as a virtuous woman and never interfered in politics. Privately, she was polite and gentle.Napoleon arranged for Marie Louise to participate in some carefully selected charity assignments, most notably the Société de Charité Maternelle, for which he made her Honorary President.

Birth of first child
Marie Louise became pregnant by July 1810 and gave birth to a son on 20 March 1811. The boy, Napoléon François Joseph Charles Bonaparte, was given the title King of Rome, in accordance with the practice where the heir apparent to the Holy Roman Empire was called the King of the Romans. Napoleon was delighted that his wife survived the ordeal and said: "I had rather never have any more children than see her suffer so much again."Marie Louise was devoted to her son; she had him brought to her every morning and visited him in his apartment in the course of the day.

Resumption of war
In May 1812, a month before the French invasion of Russia, Marie Louise accompanied Napoleon to Dresden, where she met her father and stepmother. Emperor Francis told Napoleon he could count on Austria for the "triumph of the common cause", a reference to the impending war. A minor rivalry began to develop between Marie Louise and the Empress of Austria, who was jealous at being upstaged in appearance by her stepdaughter. It was also in Dresden where she met Count Adam Albert von Neipperg for the first time. Napoleon left Dresden on 29 May to take charge of his army.Marie Louise then travelled to Prague, where she spent a few weeks with the Austrian Imperial family, before returning to Saint Cloud on 18 July. She kept in touch with Napoleon throughout the war. The invasion of Russia ended disastrously for France. More than half of the Grande Armée was destroyed by the Russian Winter and guerrilla attacks. After the failed Malet coup of October 1812, Napoleon hastened his return to France and reunited with his wife on the night of 18 December.

Collapse of the Empire
The weakened French position triggered the Sixth Coalition. Prussia allied with Russia and declared war on France (the United Kingdom was already at war with France), but Austria stayed out due to relations between the Imperial families. On 30 March, Marie Louise was appointed Regent as Napoleon set off for battle in Germany. The regency was only de jure, as all decisions were still taken by Napoleon and implemented by his most senior officials, including Lebrun, Joseph Bonaparte, Talleyrand and Savary. Marie Louise tried unsuccessfully to get her father to ally with France. Austria too joined the opposition to France. She maintained a correspondence with Napoleon, informing him of increasing demands for peace in Paris and the provinces. Napoleon was decisively defeated in Leipzig on 19 October and returned to Saint Cloud on 9 November.On 23 January 1814, Marie Louise was appointed Regent for the second time. On 25 January, at 03:00 in the morning, Napoleon embraced Marie Louise and his son for the last time. He left to lead a hastily formed army to stave off the Allied invasion from the north.As the Allies neared Paris, Marie Louise was reluctant to leave. She felt that as the daughter of the sovereign of Austria, one of the allied members, she would be treated with respect by Allied forces, with the possibility of her son succeeding the throne should Napoleon be deposed. She was also afraid that her departure would strengthen the royalist supporters of the Bourbons. Marie Louise was finally persuaded to leave by Henri Clarke, who received the order from Napoleon: "I would prefer to know that they [the Empress and the King of Rome] are both at the bottom of the Seine rather than in the hands of the foreigners." On 29 March, the court left Paris. The Allies entered the city the following day.
Marie Louise and the court moved to Blois, which was safe from the Allies. She did not expect her father to dethrone Napoleon and deprive her son of the crown of France. On 3 April, the Senate, at the instigation of Talleyrand, announced the deposition of the Emperor. Marie Louise was unaware of this until 7 April, and was astonished to discover the turn of events. She wanted to return to Paris, but was dissuaded from doing so by physician Jean-Nicolas Corvisart and the Duchess of Montebello.

Exile of Napoleon
Napoleon abdicated the throne on 11 April 1814 in Fontainebleau. The Treaty of Fontainebleau exiled him to Elba, allowed Marie Louise to retain her imperial rank and style and made her ruler of the duchies of Parma, Piacenza, and Guastalla, with her son as heir. This arrangement was later revised at the Congress of Vienna.Marie Louise was strongly dissuaded from rejoining her husband by her advisors, who fed her accounts that Napoleon was distraught with grief over the death of Joséphine. On 16 April, her father arrived at Blois to meet her. At the advice of Emperor Francis, Marie Louise departed Rambouillet with her son for Vienna on 23 April. At Vienna, she stayed at Schönbrunn, where she received frequent visits from her sisters, but rarely from her father and stepmother. She met her grandmother, Maria Carolina, who disapproved of her deserting her husband. Distressed at being seen as a heartless wife and indifferent mother, she wrote on 9 August 1814: "I am in a very unhappy and critical position; I must be very prudent in my conduct. There are moments when that thought so distracts me that I think that the best thing I could do would be to die."

Congress of Vienna and relationship with Neipperg
In the summer of 1814, Emperor Francis sent Count Adam Albert von Neipperg to accompany Marie Louise to the spa town of Aix-les-Bains to prevent her from joining Napoleon on Elba. Neipperg was a confidant of Metternich and an enemy of Napoleon. Marie Louise fell in love with Neipperg. They became lovers. He became her chamberlain, and her advocate at the Congress of Vienna. News of the relationship was not received well by the French and the Austrian public.When Napoleon escaped in March 1815 and reinstated his rule, the Allies once again declared war. Marie Louise was asked by her stepmother to join in the processions to pray for the success of the Austrian armies but rejected the insulting invitation. She passed a message to Napoleon's private secretary, Claude François de Méneval, who was about to return to France: "I hope he will understand the misery of my position ... I shall never assent to a divorce, but I flatter myself that he will not oppose an amicable separation, and that he will not bear any ill feeling towards me ... This separation has become imperative; it will in no way affect the feelings of esteem and gratitude that I preserve." Napoleon was defeated for the last time at the Battle of Waterloo and was exiled to Saint Helena from October 1815. Napoleon made no further attempt to contact her personally.
The Congress of Vienna recognised Marie Louise as ruler of Parma, Piacenza, and Guastalla, but prevented her from bringing her son to Italy. It also made her Duchess of Parma for her life only, as the Allies did not want a descendant of Napoleon to have a hereditary claim over Parma. After her death, the duchy was to revert to the Bourbons.

Duchess of Parma
Marie Louise departed for Parma on 7 March 1816, accompanied by Neipperg. She entered the duchy on 18 April. She wrote to her father: "People welcomed me with such enthusiasm that I had tears in my eyes." She largely left the running of day-to-day affairs to Neipperg, who received instructions from Metternich. In December 1816, Marie Louise removed the incumbent Grand Chamberlain (prime minister) and installed Neipperg.She and Neipperg had four children:
Albertine, Countess of Montenuovo (1817–1867), married Luigi Sanvitale, Count of Fontanellato
William Albert, Count of Montenuovo, later created Prince of Montenuovo (1819–1895), married Countess Juliana Batthyány von Németújvár
Mathilde, Countess of Montenuovo (1822–c.1823)Napoleon died on 5 May 1821. On 8 August, Marie Louise married Neipperg morganatically. Neipperg died of heart problems on 22 February 1829, devastating Marie Louise. She was banned by Austria from mourning in public. To replace Neipperg, Austria appointed Josef von Werklein as Grand Chamberlain.
Marie Louise's son by Napoleon, then known as "Franz", was given the title Duke of Reichstadt in 1818. Franz lived at the Austrian court, where he was shown great affection by his grandfather, but was constantly undermined by Austrian ministers and nationalists, who did their best to sideline him to become an irrelevance. There were fears that he might be smuggled over to France to regain the throne, as he could be easily disguised as a girl. 
Franz grew resentful at his Austrian relatives and his mother for their lack of support, and began identifying as Napoleon II and surrounding himself with French courtiers. The relationship with his mother broke down when he became aware that his mother had borne two illegitimate children to Neipperg prior to their marriage; this occurred to such an extent that he once remarked "If Josephine had been my mother, my father would not have been buried at Saint Helena, and I should not be at Vienna. My mother is kind but weak; she was not the wife my father deserved; Josephine was." However, before anything could become of Napoleon II, he died at the age of 21 in Vienna in 1832, after suffering from tuberculosis.
1831 saw the outbreak of the Carbonari-led uprisings in Italy. In Parma, protesters gathered in the streets to denounce Grand Chamberlain Werklein. Marie Louise did not know what to do and wanted to leave the city, but was prevented from doing so by the protesters, who saw her as someone who would listen to their demands. She managed to leave Parma between 14 and 15 February, and the rebels formed a provisional government, led by Count Filippo Luigi Linati. At Piacenza, she wrote to her father, asking him to replace Werklein. Francis sent in Austrian troops, which crushed the rebellion. To avoid further turmoil, Marie Louise granted amnesty to the dissidents on 29 September.To replace Werklein, in 1833, Metternich sent Charles-René de Bombelles, a French émigré nobleman who had served in the Austrian army against Napoleon. Bombelles was an excellent Grand Chamberlain, who thoroughly reformed the finances of the duchy. A middle-aged widower, he also developed a close personal relationship with Marie Louise. Six months after his arrival, on 17 February 1834, she married him, again morganatically.

Death
Marie Louise fell ill on 9 December 1847. Her condition worsened for the next few days. On 17 December, she passed out after vomiting and never woke up again. She died in the evening. The cause of death was determined to be pleurisy.Her body was transferred back to Vienna and buried at the Imperial Crypt.

Arms
Her arms as Duchess of Parma are used as the logo of the perfume company Acqua di Parma. This is in homage to the role she played in helping to develop the perfume and glass industry of Parma.

Gallery
Ancestry
See also
Napoleon Diamond Necklace

Notes
Passage 8:
Gerolama Orsini
Gerolama Orsini (1504–1569) sometimes Girolama Orsini was the Duchess of Parma as the wife of Pier Luigi Farnese, Duke of Parma. She served as Regent (Governor) of the Ducky of Castro in the name of her son Orazio, Duke of Castro between 1550 and 1553.

Biography
Born in Pitigliano, she was the daughter of Lodovico Orsini and Giulia Conti. In 1513, an engagement contract between Orsini and Pier Luigi Farnese was drawn up, and in 1519 the wedding was celebrated at Valentano. Her husband was the illegitimate son of Pope Paul III and Silvia Ruffino. The couple had five children, three of whom would have further progeny. 
When Cardinal Alessandro Farnese became Pope Paul III in 1534, he made his son Pier Luigi captain-general of the Church, in 1537, Duke of Castro, and finally in 1545, Duke of Parma and Piacenza. Gerolama remained in Rome and maintained the family presence at the court of the Pope. She was described as a sensible person capable of making important decisions when necessary, close to the Pope and the interests of her sons. She lived a retired life, but was always actively engaged in maintaining the political interest of her sons. 
She was widowed in 1547 and remained in Rome. When Pope Paul III died in 1549, Gerolama unsuccessfully attempted to work for the candidacy of a Pope beneficial to the Farnese family. In 1550, Gerolama was appointed the regent-governor of the Duchy of Castro in the absence of her son. Castro was occupied by Papal troops the same year. Gerolama maintained her regency by not resisting, and yet continuing to exert her authority while working for the end of the Papal occupation, and finally managed to achieve the end of the Papal occupation in 1552. Her regency ended when she was informed of the death of her son Orazio in 1553, and she departed for Parma, where she settled for the rest of her life.She died at the Palazzo Farnese Piacenza in 1590. She was buried at the Farnese crypt at the Sanctuary of Santa Maria della Steccata, Parma.

Issue
Vittoria Farnese (10 August 1519 – 13 December 1602) married Guidobaldo della Rovere, Duke of Urbino and had issue.
Alessandro Farnese (5 October 1520 – 2 March 1589) never married.
Ottavio Farnese, Duke of Parma (9 October 1524 – 18 September 1586) married Margaret of Parma and had issue.
Ranuccio Farnese (11 August 1530 – 1565) died unmarried.
Orazio Farnese, Duke of Castro (1532 – 18 July 1558) married Diane de France no issue.
Passage 9:
Maria Theresa of Naples and Sicily
Maria Theresa of Naples and Sicily (6 June 1772 – 13 April 1807) was the first Empress of Austria and last Holy Roman Empress as the spouse of Francis II. She was born a Princess of Naples as the eldest daughter of King Ferdinand I of the Two Sicilies and Queen Maria Carolina.

Life
Early life
Born on 6 June 1772 at the Royal Palace of Naples, Maria Theresa Carolina Giuseppina was the eldest child of King Ferdinand I of the Two Sicilies and his wife Queen Maria Carolina. She was her mother’s favorite child from birth, and was henceforth named after her maternal grandmother Empress Maria Theresa. Princess Maria Theresa was taught French, mathematics, geography, theology, music, dancing, and drawing.In the February of 1790, Archduke Francis’s wife, Duchess Elisabeth, died in childbirth, and it was announced that he would marry one of the princesses of Naples. Maria Theresa and her sister Luisa were both considered for the match. In the end, though, Luisa was chosen to marry Ferdinand III, Grand Duke of Tuscany, and Maria Theresa was to marry Francis. The marriage was in accordance with the traditional Habsburg marriage policy.

Marriage
On 15 September 1790, at the age of 18, Princess Maria Theresa married her double first cousin Archduke Francis. Francis would, in 1792, become Holy Roman Emperor. Eventually, in 1804, he would become the first Emperor of Austria. The marriage was described as a happy one based on mutual understanding, despite differences in personality. Francis was described as a melancholic character. He was shy and reserved, and was serious with a preference for a spartan lifestyle and duty. Maria Theresa, on the other hand, was described as a gracious blue-eyed blonde with a vivacious personality, a hot temper and a sensual nature. Despite these differences in personality, they were reported to have a good understanding of each other and had a very good relationship.Maria Theresa reportedly adapted well to her new home in Vienna and did not suffer from homesickness. She participated with enthusiasm in court life, and it was noted that she enjoyed dancing and partaking in carnival balls—even while pregnant. She particularly enjoyed the Waltz, which had been recently introduced as an innovation and became fashionable during her years in Vienna.   

Hedvig Elisabeth Charlotte of Holstein-Gottorp described the view of Maria Theresa and the relationship between the couple in her famous diary during her visit to Vienna in 1798–99: The Empress is reputed to be so jealous that she does not allow him to take part in social life or meet other women. Vicious tongues accuse her of being so passionate that she exhausts her consort and never leaves him alone even for a moment. Although the people of Vienna cannot deny that she is gifted, charitable and carries herself beautifully, she is disliked for her intolerance and for forcing the Emperor to live isolated from everyone. She is also accused of interesting herself in unimportant matters and socializing exclusively with her lady-companions. With them she spends her evenings singing, acting out comedies and being applauded.
On 12 December 1791, the firstborn child of Princess Maria Theresa and Archduke Francis was born: Marie Louise. She was educated specifically in French, English, Spanish, Italian and Latin, with the expectation of her native language German. Marie Louise would soon marry Emperor Napoleon, due to the ongoing wars with France that were effecting her parents and grandparents.

Holy Roman Empress
In 1792, Maria Theresa’s husband Francis ascended the throne as King of Hungary, Croatia and Bohemia, and she became queen consort. In the same year, she would become Holy Roman Empress. The-then Empress Maria Theresa was interested in politics and came to play a certain role in state affairs due to her influence over her spouse, to whom she acted as an adviser. She was a conservative force and belonged to the critics of King Napoleon, and was reported to have encouraged Francis in an anti-French position during the Napoleonic Wars. She has also been pointed out for being partially responsible for the dismissal of Johann Baptist Freiherr von Schloissnigg and Graf Franz Colloredo.In February of 1799, her seeming indifference to the revolution against her parents in Naples attracted some disfavour in Vienna. Although she was her mother’s favorite child, she was biased when it came to their exile during the War.
An important patron of Viennese music, she commissioned many compositions for official and private use. Joseph Haydn wrote his Te Deum for chorus and orchestra at her request. Her favourite composers included Paul Wranitzky and Joseph Leopold Eybler, a composer of sacred music.

Death
In the winter of 1806, Empress Maria Theresa (pregnant with her 12th child) contracted tuberculous pleurisy, which the imperial physician, Andreas Joseph von Stifft, treated with bloodletting. However, it did not trigger an improvement in health, but a premature birth. When Empress Maria Theresa died after following complications after her last childbirth (the daughter died a few days before the mother) on 13 April 1807 at the age of 34, the Emperor was inconsolable and had to be removed by force from the corpse of his wife. She was buried in the Imperial Crypt in Vienna. The shattered Emperor stayed away from the funeral, instead traveling to Buda with his two eldest children. The urn containing her heart was placed in the Heart Crypt and the urn with her entrails in the Ducal Crypt. Empress Maria Theresa is one of the 41 people who received a "separate burial" with the body divided between all three traditional Viennese burial sites of the Habsburgs (Imperial Crypt, Heart Crypt, Duke Crypt).

Issue
Ancestry