Passage 1:
Donnie Elbert
Donnie Elbert (May 25, 1936 – January 26, 1989) was an American soul singer and songwriter, who had a prolific career from the mid-1950s to the late 1970s. His U.S. hits included "Where Did Our Love Go?" (1971), and his reputation as a Northern soul artist in the UK was secured by "A Little Piece of Leather", a performance highlighting his powerful falsetto voice.

Career
Elbert was born in New Orleans, Louisiana, but when aged three his family relocated to Buffalo, New York. He learned to play guitar and piano as a child, and in 1955 formed a doo-wop group, the Vibraharps, with friend Danny Cannon. Elbert acted as the group's guitarist, songwriter, arranger, and background vocalist, making his recording debut on their single "Walk Beside Me". He left the group in 1957 for a solo career, and recorded a demonstration record that earned him a recording contract with the King label's DeLuxe subsidiary. His solo debut "What Can I Do?" reached #12 in the U.S. R&B chart, and he followed it up with the less successful "Believe It or Not" and "Have I Sinned?", which became a regional hit in Pittsburgh.He continued to release singles on DeLuxe, but with little commercial success, and also played New York's Apollo Theater and toured the Chitlin' Circuit of African-American owned nightclubs. After completing an album, The Sensational Donnie Elbert Sings, he left DeLuxe in 1959, joining first Red Top Records, where in 1960 he recorded "Someday (You'll Want Me to Want You)", and then Vee-Jay Records, where he had another regional hit with "Will You Ever Be Mine?", which reportedly sold 250,000 copies in the Philadelphia area but failed to take off nationwide. His career was also interrupted by a spell in the US Army, from which he was discharged in 1961. He then recorded singles for several labels, including Parkway, Cub and Checker, but with little success. However, although the 1965 Gateway label release of "A Little Piece of Leather" failed to chart in the US, the record became a #27 pop hit when released on the London label in the UK several years later in 1972, and remains a Northern soul favorite.Elbert relocated to the UK in 1966, where he married. There, he recorded "In Between The Heartaches" for the Polydor label in 1968, a cover version of the Supremes' hit "Where Did Our Love Go?" and an album of Otis Redding cover versions, Tribute To A King. His 1969 Deram release "Without You" had a rocksteady rhythm, and went to the top of the Jamaican charts.
He returned to the US the same year and had his first US chart hit in over a decade with the Rare Bullet release, "Can't Get Over Losing You", which reached #26 on the Billboard R&B chart. The track and its b-side, "Got To Get Myself Together", both written by Elbert, were released several times on different labels in subsequent years. After the success of that record, Elbert moved labels for a re-make of the Supremes' 1964 hit, "Where Did Our Love Go?" on All Platinum. It became his biggest hit, reaching #15 on the Billboard pop chart, #6 on the R&B chart, and (in 1972) #8 in the UK. Its follow-up, "Sweet Baby" reached #30 on the R&B chart in early 1972.
Elbert then signed with Avco-Embassy, where he entered the recording studio with the successful production team of Hugo & Luigi. His cover of the Four Tops' "I Can't Help Myself" reached #14 on the Billboard R&B chart, but climbed as high as #2 on the alternative Cashbox R&B chart. Elbert baulked at the label's insistence that he record material associated with Motown and departed with only a few tracks left to record for an album. Even so, the album was released after Avco sold it on to a budget label, Trip.
He returned to All Platinum and had a run of minor R&B hits, but left after a disagreement over the claimed authorship of Shirley & Company's R&B chart-topper "Shame Shame Shame", which was credited to label owner Sylvia Robinson. Elbert was also involved in a copyright wrangle over Darrell Banks' major R&B and pop hit in 1966, "Open The Door To Your Heart". He had originally written the song as "Baby Walk Right In" (still its alternative legal title) and given it to Banks, but received no writing credit on the original record. Eventually, the matter was resolved by BMI with a disgruntled Elbert awarded joint authorship with Banks. "Open The Door" has since been given award-winning status by BMI and is one of over 100 songs written or co-written by Elbert.
For 1975's "You Keep Me Crying (With Your Lying)", Elbert formed his own label and "I Got to Get Myself Together", appeared on an imprint bearing his surname, but it was among his final recordings.By the mid-1980s, Elbert had retired from performing and became director of A&R for Polygram's Canadian division. He suffered a massive stroke and died in 1989, at the age of 52.

Discography
Chart singles
Albums
The Sensational Donnie Elbert Sings (King, 1959)
Tribute to a King (1968)
Where Did Our Love Go? (All Platinum, 1971) U.S. #153, R&B #45
Have I Sinned? (Deluxe, 1971)
Stop in the Name of Love (Trip, 1972)
A Little Bit of Leather (1972)
Roots of Donnie Elbert (Ember, 1973)
Dancin' the Night Away (All Platinum, 1977)

See also
List of disco artists (A-E)
Passage 2:
Benny Rubinstein
Benny Rubinstein (בני רובינשטיין) is an Israeli former footballer and current real estate developer. He played soccer for Maccabi Netanya and Hapoel Netanya. At the 1969 Maccabiah Games, Rubinstein played soccer for Israel, winning a gold medal.

Biography
Rubinstein was born in Netanya, Israel. His wife is Sarah Rubinstein. Benny's son, Aviram also played football for Maccabi Netanya.He played soccer for Maccabi Netanya and Hapoel Netanya. At the 1969 Maccabiah Games, Rubinstein played soccer for Israel, winning a gold medal.Rubinstein then worked as a real estate agent, and now works in real estate development.

Honours
Israeli Premier League (1):
1970-71
Passage 3:
Nancy Baron
Nancy Baron is an American rock singer who was active in New York City in the early 1960s, known for the singles "Where Did My Jimmy Go?" and "I've Got A Feeling".

Early life
Born into a family of singers and writers, Baron was introduced to many musical genres by her family at an early age. Noting her singing talents, her parents brought their young child to auditions for musical theater productions in New York City. The singer joined Glee clubs at school and formed her own female singing groups at school. At the age of 11, she heard her first "Rock and Roll" song. This affected her taste in music and desire to emulate the style; it was the first time she heard a Rock group with a female lead singer. This was significant since she realized that she could be a lead singer.

Recording career
At the age of 15, her parents sent her for vocal coaching in Manhattan, N.Y. After a while her coach sent her to record a demonstration record in a sound studio near Broadway. Upon hearing her sing, the sound engineer contacted his friend who was a producer of a small record company in N.Y.C.; he was impressed by her voice and immediately signed her to a contract. The singer's mother co-signed the document since Baron was a fifteen-year-old minor at the time.Baron became one of the many girl group/girl sound singers of the early 1960s. Baron was not a member of a group; her producers would hire "pay for hire" backup groups for her recordings. This "sound" as it is referred to had much to do with Phil Spector, one of its major creators; Spector produced recordings of this genre prolifically. The groups were composed of young adult or teenage girls, each with a lead singer and any number of back up singers.At the time, the troubled label (a small N.Y.C. record company owned by Wally Zober) could not promote Baron's "I've Got A Feeling"/"Oh Yeah" 45 vinyl and so she eventually signed a contract with Jerry Goldstein producer of FGG productions, also located in Manhattan. "Where Did My Jimmy Go"/"Tra la la, I Love You" was the result (Diamond).

Later life
Baron left the music industry at the age of 19, choosing to enter higher education due to changes in the music industry of those days; she eventually received an advanced degree.
Baron's "I've Got a Feeling" was covered by The Secret Sisters on their 2010 self-titled album as well as being released as a single. AllMusic describes Baron's song as "an early-'60s pop/rock obscurity".
Passage 4:
Jack Carroll (hurler)
Jack Carroll (1921–1998) is an Irish hurler who played as a goalkeeper for the Offaly senior hurling team.
Carroll made his first appearance for the team during the 1943 championship and was a regular member of the starting fifteen until his retirement after the 1953 championship. During that time he enjoyed little success as Offaly were regarded as one of the minnows of provincial hurling.
At club level Carroll was a five-time county club championship medalist with Coolderry.
Carroll's father-in-law, "Red" Jack Teehan, his son, Pat Carroll, and his grandson, Brian Carroll, also played hurling with Offaly.
Passage 5:
Andrew Allen (singer)
Andrew Allen (born 6 May 1981) is a Canadian singer-songwriter from Vernon, British Columbia. He is signed to Sony/ATV and has released five top ten singles, and written and recorded many others, including Where Did We Go? with Carly Rae Jepsen. He also records covers and posts them on YouTube.

Background
Raised in British Columbia's Okanagan Valley, his acoustic pop/rock music is inspired by artists like Jason Mraz and Jack Johnson.

Career
Andrew Allen scored his first hit in 2009, when I Wanna Be Your Christmas cracked the Top Ten in his native Canada. He was honored as the feature performer for the Sochi 2014 hand off finale on the internationally broadcast Closing Ceremony of the 2010 Paralympic Winter Games held at Whistler, British Columbia. Allen continued building an international profile in 2010, and released his biggest single Loving You Tonight, which sold more than 100,000 copies worldwide, was featured on the Gold Selling NOW 37, hit #6 on the Canadian charts for 22 weeks in a row and #30 on the US Hot AC charts, and got him a record deal with Epic after spending much of that year on the road. Because of the song's attention, Allen had the opportunity to perform with some of the world's biggest artists like Bruno Mars, One Republic, The Barenaked Ladies, Train, Matt Nathanson, Joshua Radin, Andy Grammer, The Script, Nick Carter, Kris Allen, Carly Rae Jepsen and many others.
Loving You Tonight was also featured on the soundtrack of Abduction starring Taylor Lautner.

Collaborations
Andrew Allen is also well known in the songwriting community, and has written songs with artists like Meghan Trainor, Rachel Platten, Cody Simpson, Carly Rae Jepsen, Matt Simons, Conrad Sewell as well as writer/producers like Toby Gad, Ryan Stewart, Eric Rosse, Jason Reeves, John Shanks, Nolan Sipes, Mark Pellizzer (Magic), Brian West and Josh Cumbee. Numerous songs he has been a part of writing have been released by various artists, including Last Chance, which was on the Grammy nominated album Atmosphere by Kaskade feat. DJ Project 46, Ad Occhi Chiusi which was on the Double Platinum release by Italian artist Marco Mengoni and Maybe (which Allen also later released himself) released by teen pop sensation Daniel Skye, as well as many others.

Singles
I Wanna Be Your Christmas (2009)
Loving You Tonight (2010)
I Want You (2011)
Where Did We Go? (2012)
Satellite (2012)
Play with Fire (2013)
Thinking About You (2014)
What You Wanted (2016)
Favorite Christmas Song (2017)
Maybe (2017)

Discography
The Living Room Sessions (2008)
Andrew Allen EP (2009)
The Mix Tape (2012)
Are We Cool? (2013)
All Hearts Come Home (2014)
The Writing Room (2020)
12:34 (2022; pre-released on vinyl in 2021)

Songwriting credits
Last Chance released by Kaskade featuring Project 46 on his Grammy nominated record Atmosphere.
Ad Occhi Chiusi released by Marco Mengoni on his Double Platinum record.
Reasons released by Project 46.
No Ordinary Angel released by Nick Howard from The Voice Germany.
Million Dollars released by Nick Howard from The Voice Germany.
Maybe released by Daniel Skye.
Passage 6:
Helena Carroll
Helena Winifred Carroll (13 November 1928 – 31 March 2013) was a veteran film, television and stage actress.

Early life
Born to clothing designer Helena Reilly and Abbey Theatre playwright Paul Vincent Carroll, she was the youngest of three sisters. Her elder sisters were Theresa Elizabeth Perez (1924–2001), a classically trained musician and the producer/founder of the People's Pops Concerts in Phoenix, Arizona, and journalist Kathleen Moira Carroll (1927–2007).Carroll attended Clerkhill Notre Dame High School, a Roman Catholic convent school in Dumbarton.

Stage career
Carroll received her acting training at the Central School which later became the Webber Douglas Academy of Dramatic Art London, appearing in three plays in London's West End and a film, Midnight Episode, by age 20. She made her Broadway debut in Separate Tables by Terence Rattigan. She moved to the U.S. during the 1950s, touring and performing on Broadway and co-founded, with Dermot McNamara, The Irish Players, a repertory theater company in Manhattan.Helena split her stage work between Dublin, London and New York, appearing on Broadway in, among other productions the original production of Oliver! as Mrs. Sowerberry, as well as Pickwick, Design for Living, Waiting in the Wings, and the Elizabeth Taylor-Richard Burton revival of Private Lives (New York and Los Angeles). Her last stage performance was in 2007 at the age of 78.

Film and television
Carroll played the leading role of Nora, in a television production of her father's play, The White Steed (1959 Play of the Week Series), directed by Joe Gisterak. Gisterak directed a 1980 commissioned opera of her father's play, Beauty is Fled, as part of the "Children's Opera Series", which her sister,  Theresa Perez founded. The opera was performed at the Phoenix Symphony Hall.
Prompted by producer Al Simon and casting director Caro Jones, Carroll moved to Los Angeles in the late 1960s and appeared in numerous films and television programs, including the lively Aunt Kate in John Huston's Academy Award-nominated film The Dead, based on the short story by James Joyce. Other works in Hollywood included The Friends of Eddie Coyle starring Robert Mitchum, The Jerk, directed by Carl Reiner and starring Steve Martin, The Mambo Kings, the Warren Beatty remake of Love Affair, the 1979 NBC mini-series Backstairs at the White House, and such television programs as Kojak, General Hospital, The Edge of Night, Loving Couples, Laverne and Shirley, Murder She Wrote, and Married... With Children.

Death
Carroll resided in Los Angeles, and died in Marina del Rey, California from heart failure on 31 March 2013 at the age of 84. She is survived by a half brother, Brian Carroll; a niece, Helena Perez Reilly; and a great-nephew, Paul Vincent Reilly.

Filmography
Passage 7:
Robert Paul Smith
Robert Paul Smith (April 16, 1915 – January 30, 1977) was an American author, most famous for his classic evocation of childhood, Where Did You Go? Out. What Did You Do? Nothing.

Biography
Robert Paul Smith was born in Brooklyn, grew up in Mount Vernon, NY, and graduated from Columbia College in 1936. He worked as a writer for CBS Radio and wrote four novels: So It Doesn't Whistle (1946) (1941, according to Avon Publishing Co., Inc., reprint edition ... Plus Blood in Their Veins copyright 1952); The Journey, (1943); Because of My Love (1946); The Time and the Place (1951).
The Tender Trap, a play by Smith and Dobie Gillis creator Max Shulman, opened in 1954 with Robert Preston in the leading role. It was later made into a movie starring Frank Sinatra and Debbie Reynolds. A classic example of the "battle-of-the-sexes" comedy, it revolves around the mutual envy of a bachelor living in New York City and a settled family man living in the New York suburbs.
Where Did You Go? Out. What Did You Do? Nothing is a nostalgic evocation of the inner life of childhood. It advocates the value of privacy to children; the importance of unstructured time; the joys of boredom; and the virtues of freedom from adult supervision. He opens by saying "The thing is, I don't understand what kids do with themselves any more." He contrasts the overstructured, overscheduled, oversupervised suburban life of the child in the suburban 1950's with reminiscences of his own childhood. He concludes "I guess what I am saying is that people who don't have nightmares don't have dreams. If you will excuse me, I have an appointment with myself to sit on the front steps and watch some grass growing."
Translations from the English (1958) collects a series of articles originally published in Good Housekeeping magazine. The first, "Translations from the Children," may be the earliest known example of the genre of humor that consists of a series of translations from what is said (e.g. "I don't know why. He just hit me") into what is meant (e.g. "He hit his brother.")
How to Do Nothing With Nobody All Alone By Yourself (1958) is a how-to book, illustrated by Robert Paul Smith's wife Elinor Goulding Smith. It gives step-by-step directions on how to: play mumbly-peg; build a spool tank; make polly-noses; construct an indoor boomerang, etc. It was republished in 2010 by Tin House Books.

List of works
Essays and humor
Where Did You Go? Out. What Did You Do? Nothing (1957)Translations from the English (1958) Crank: A Book of Lamentations, Exhortations, Mixed Memories and Desires, All Hard Or Chewy Centers, No Creams(1962)How to Grow Up in One Piece (1963)Got to Stop Draggin’ that Little Red Wagon Around (1969)Robert Paul Smith’s Lost & Found (1973)

For children
Jack Mack, illus. Erik Blegvad (1960)When I Am Big, illus. Lillian Hoban (1965)Nothingatall, Nothingatall, Nothingatall, illus. Allan E. Cober (1965)How To Do Nothing With No One All Alone By Yourself, illus Elinor Goulding Smith (1958) Republished by Tin House Books (2010)

Novels
So It Doesn't Whistle (1941) The Journey (1943) Because of My Love (1946)The Time and the Place (1952)Where He Went: Three Novels (1958)

Theatre
The Tender Trap, by Max Shulman and Robert Paul Smith (first Broadway performance, 1954; Random House edition, 1955)

Verse
The Man with the Gold-headed Cane (1943)…and Another Thing (1959)

External links
An Interview, by Edward R Murrow on YouTube
Passage 8:
Joseph J. Sullivan (vaudeville)
Joseph J. Sullivan was a blackface comedian and acrobat in New York.  He composed the song Where Did You Get That Hat? and first performed it in 1888.  It was a great success and he performed it many times thereafter.
Passage 9:
Paul Vincent Carroll
Paul Vincent Carroll (10 July 1900 – 20 October 1968) was an Irish dramatist and writer of movie scenarios and television scripts.
Carroll was born in Blackrock, County Louth, Ireland and trained as a teacher at St Patrick's College, Dublin and settled in Glasgow in 1921 as a teacher. Several of his plays were produced by the Abbey Theatre in Dublin. He co-founded, with Grace Ballantine and Molly Urquhart, the Curtain Theatre Company in Glasgow.

Personal life
Carroll and his wife, clothing designer Helena Reilly, had three daughters; the youngest was actress Helena Carroll (1928–2013). He also had a son, Brian Francis, born in 1945.Paul Vincent Carroll died at age 68 in Bromley, Kent England..He died in his sleep from heart failure.He was a close friend of Patrick Kavanagh's in the 1920s.

List of works
The Watched Pot (unpublished)
The Things That are Caesar's (London, 1934)
Shadow and Substance (1937, won the Casement Award and the New York Drama Critics' Circle Award)
The White Steed (1939, won Drama Critics’ Circle Award)
The Strings Are False (1942, published as The Strings My Lord Are False, 1944)
Coggerers (1944, later renamed The Conspirators)
The Old Foolishness (1944)
The Wise Have Not Spoken (1947)
Saints and Sinners 1949
She Went by Gently (1953, *Irish Writing* magazine. Republished in 1955 in 44 Irish Short Stories edited by Devin A. Garrity)
Passage 10:
Yaya Soumahoro
Yaya Alfa Soumahoro (born 28 September 1989) is an Ivorian former professional footballer who plays as an attacking midfielder. 
Having begun his career with Séwé Sports in his native country, he joined Thai club Muangthong United in 2008. His good performances earned him a move to K.A.A. Gent in 2010. He spent five and a half seasons with Gent but was plagued by recurring injuries throughout his time there. Following a half-season loan to Sint-Truidense V.V., he returned to Muangthong United where did not feature. In 2018, he joined the Egyptian side Wadi Degla SC.

Early life
Soumahoro grew in the Ivorian capital Abidjan. He learned to play football in the streets and he decided to play for Séwé Sports. Soumahoro lost both parents at an early age and was taken care by a foster family.

Club career
Muangthong United
In 2008 Soumahoro moved to Thai Premier League side Muangthong United from Séwé Sports. He became a figurehead in this team, as he scored many goals and charmed the supporters with his numerous dribbles. He scored 32 goals in 72 games and helped the club win the Thai Premier League Championship Thai Division 1 League in 2008 and the Thai Premier League in 2009.

Gent
On 1 July 2010, Soumahoro joined Belgian club K.A.A. Gent on a three-year contract. On 22 August, he impressed in 3–1 league win against Charleroi scoring and assisting a goal each while also winning a penalty which Shlomi Arbeitman failed to convert. Four days later, he scored a goal to put Gent level on aggregate in a UEFA Europa League qualifying match against Feyenoord. His side went on to win 2–0 and qualify for the UEFA Europa League.In September 2010, Soumahoro sustained a hamstring injury in a league match against Zulte Waregem and was substituted off after 73 minutes. It was announced he would be out of action for four weeks. In October 2010, he signed a one-year contract extension, tying him to the club until 2014.In April 2011, he received a three-match suspension.In March 2012, it was announced Soumahoro would need to undergo surgery likely ruling him out for the rest of the 2012–13 season.In October 2013, he signed a two-year contract extension with Gent, keeping him at the club until 2016.On 20 September 2015, Soumahoro made his first starting appearance after an injury layoff in a league match against Standard Liège. He had to leave the pitch after twisting his knee. With his contract set to expire at the end of the 2015–16 season Gent were looking to transfer Soumahoro. He did not take part in the club's winter training camp and instead trained with the reserves in wait of contract offers from other clubs. On 8 January 2016, Soumahoro rejected a move involving a 2.5-year deal to Cypriot club Anorthosis Famagusta. On 12 January, he joined Gent's league rivals Sint-Truidense V.V. on loan until the end of the season.

After Gent
In June 2016 Soumahoro returned to former club Muangthong United. Six months later, his contract was terminated after he had not made any appearances due to injury problems.
In July 2018, he trialled with Belgian First Division B side K.S.V. Roeselare. He sustained an injury in a friendly match with Crawley Town and was not signed by Roeselare.In October 2018, Soumahoro joined Egyptian Premier League side Wadi Degla SC as a free agent.

Honours
Muangthong United

Thai Division 1 League: 2008
Thai Premier League: 2009Gent

Belgian Pro League: 2014–15
Belgian Super Cup: 2015