Passage 1:
Inna
Elena Alexandra Apostoleanu (born 16 October 1986), known professionally as Inna (stylized in all caps), is a Romanian singer and songwriter. Born in Mangalia and raised in Neptun, she studied political science at Ovidius University before meeting the Romanian trio Play & Win and pursuing a music career. She adopted the stage name "Alessandra" and a pop-rock style in 2008; later that year, she changed her stage name to "Inna" and began releasing house music. "Hot" (2008), her debut single, was a commercial success worldwide and topped the Romanian and Billboard's Hot Dance Airplay chart, among others. Her debut studio album of the same name followed in August 2009 and was certified Gold and Platinum. It featured several other successful singles in Europe, including "Amazing" (2009), the singer's second number-one single in Romania.
Inna's second album, I Am the Club Rocker (2011), yielded global success for the single "Sun Is Up" (2010). The track won the Eurodanceweb Award, making Inna the first and only Romanian artist to win the award. In 2011, it was announced Inna was the highest-paid Romanian and Eastern European artist. Her follow-up studio album, Party Never Ends (2013), was nominated for two consecutive years for Best Album at the Romanian Music Awards and reached the top ten in Mexico. It featured "More than Friends", a moderate European hit in collaboration with Daddy Yankee. In 2014, Inna signed with Atlantic Records and released the commercially successful "Cola Song" with J Balvin, which was used to promote that year's FIFA World Cup.
Inna's fourth and eponymous studio album was released in October 2015 and included "Diggy Down", her third number-one single in Romania. Beginning in 2017, Inna has been a coach on the talent show Vocea României Junior alongside Andra and Marius Moga. In the same year, she also released her fifth album Nirvana, whose singles found chart success in European countries such as Romania and Turkey. She signed a record deal with Roc Nation in 2018 to release her sixth studio album Yo in May 2019. Entirely envisioned by Inna, the Spanish-language effort marks a change in direction for her, as she approaches experimental and gypsy-influenced music styles. Her first single outside the Yo era, "Bebe", reached number one in Romania in March 2020. The singer also attained success in various Eastern European territories with "Flashbacks" (2021) and "Up" (2021), with the former being the lead single from her seventh studio album, Heartbreaker, released in November 2020. Inna's eighth record, Champagne Problems, followed as a two-part release in January and March 2022.
With global album sales of four million copies from her first three studio albums, Inna is the best-selling Romanian artist. She has received several awards and nominations, including the Balkan Music Awards, European Border Breakers Award, MTV Europe Music Awards and the Romanian Music Awards. Inna is a human rights activist, participating in campaigns against domestic violence and in support of children's rights.

Life and career
1986–2007: Early life and career beginnings
Elena Alexandra Apostoleanu was born on 16 October 1986 in Mangalia, Romania, to Giorgic and Maria Apostoleanu. She was raised in Neptun, where her father worked as a sea rescuer and her mother as a dancer and singer. As a child, Inna competed as a swimmer and became interested in football and basketball as well as music. She listened to a variety of musical styles as a teenager, including electro house and europop, and to artists such as Beyoncé, Christina Aguilera, Celine Dion and Whitney Houston. Inna attended the sole, now dissolved, elementary school in Neptun. Following this, the singer enrolled at Colegiul Economic (Economy College) in Mangalia, later studying political science at Ovidius University in Constanța. She also took singing lessons and participated in music festivals. An early foray into the music industry was an unsuccessful audition for the Romanian band A.S.I.A.When Inna worked in an office, her manager heard her singing and contacted the production team Play & Win with whom she recorded several songs. Adopting the stage name Alessandra in 2008, she entered "Goodbye" and "Sorry" to represent Romania at the Eurovision Song Contest 2008; neither was selected. The singer performed "Goodbye" live on the primetime TV show, Teo!, her first televised appearance. Later that year, she changed her stage name to Inna since it was easy to memorize and was the name her grandfather called her when she was young. Early in her career, Inna released pop-rock songs, but switched to "commercial" minimal-infused house music after changing her stage name. In a News of the World interview, Inna cited Swedish House Mafia, The Black Eyed Peas and Jessie J as inspirations. Others include Pink, Houston and Dion.

2008–2011: Hot and I Am the Club Rocker
Inna's debut single, "Hot", was sent to Romanian radio stations in August 2008. It topped the Romanian charts that winter, prompting her to be booked at Romanian nightclubs. The track was also commercially successful throughout Europe, and topped Billboard's Hot Dance Airplay chart in early 2010. "Love" (2009) was released as Inna's second single, reaching number four in Romania. The singer received the first nominations of her career at the 2009 Eska Music Awards in Poland for "Hot". Her Romanian label, Roton, signed a contract with the American label Ultra Records in April 2009.Inna collaborated with Romanian musician Bogdan Croitoru on her follow-up single, "Déjà Vu" (2009), which they released under pseudonyms (Bob Taylor and Anni) before revealing their true identities after a period of speculation. The single was as commercially successful as its predecessors. Inna had her second number-one hit in Romania with "Amazing", her fourth single, in 2009. The song was originally written by Play & Win for Romanian singer Anca Badiu, who later complained they had "stolen" it. Inna's debut studio album, Hot, was released in August 2009 and also included the last single "10 Minutes" (2010). The record was commercially successful and was certified Gold in Romania and Platinum in France. As of December 2011, it had sold 500,000 copies worldwide. Inna was the Best Romanian Act at the 2009 and 2010 MTV Europe Music Awards, the first Romanian artist to win the award in two consecutive years. In 2010, she was also nominated for Best European Act.
Inna's sixth single, "Sun Is Up", was released in October 2010 and peaked at number two on the Romanian Top 100. It did well in a number of other European countries, earning Gold in Switzerland and Italy and Silver in the United Kingdom. "Sun Is Up" won the Eurodanceweb Award in 2010, the first time Romania had won the award. That year, Inna also received a career award at the Zece Pentru România Awards. She released her second studio album, I Am the Club Rocker, in September 2011, which also included the single "Club Rocker" that received a remix with American rapper Flo Rida. Featuring europop, dance-pop, techno and house music, the record was honored as one of the year's best albums by her label Roton and was certified Gold in Poland. The album was promoted by the I Am the Club Rocker Tour (2011–12) of Europe and the United States. During Mexican dates, Inna did several interviews and radio appearances. She had her first major Romanian concert at the Arenele Romane (Roman Arena) in Bucharest, where she arrived by helicopter "like a diva".Titled "Club Rocker" (2011), the second single from I Am the Club Rocker was moderately successful. It was the subject of a lawsuit when Spanish singer Robert Ramirez sued Play & Win for copying the refrain of his song, "A Minute of Life"; Play & Win won the court case in 2018. Three subsequent singles, "Un Momento" (2011), "Endless" (2011) and "Wow" (2012), were released from the album. "Endless" peaked at number five on the Romanian Top 100, while "Wow" reached the top ten. According to Libertatea, Inna became the highest-paid Romanian and Eastern European artist in 2011.

2012–2016: Party Never Ends and Inna
Televiziunea Română (TVR) approached Inna in early 2012 to represent Romania at the Eurovision Song Contest 2012, but she turned the offer down due to scheduling conflicts. In the same year, she released the single "Caliente", which she dedicated to her Mexican fans, and "Tu și eu", which received heavy airplay in Romania and peaked at number five there. This was followed by another top ten hit, "Inndia" (2012). On New Year's Eve, Inna presented a concert at Meydan Racecourse in Dubai.She released her third studio album, Party Never Ends, in March 2013, featuring the commercially successful singles "More than Friends" (2013) with Daddy Yankee and "In Your Eyes" (2013) with Yandel. "More than Friends" was controversial, since its writers were accused of plagiarizing Pitbull, Akon and David Rush's "Everybody Fucks" (2012). Party Never Ends peaked at number ten in Mexico, and was nominated for Best Album at the 2013 and 2014 Romanian Music Awards. In March 2013, Inna was the guest singer on "P.O.H.U.I." by the Moldovan music project Carla's Dreams, which reached number three in Romania. In late 2013, Inna contributed to Pitbull's "All the Things" on his EP, Meltdown."Cola Song", a collaboration with J Balvin released under Atlantic Records in April 2014, was successful in Europe, and was certified Platinum by Productores de Música de España (PROMUSICAE). It promoted the FIFA World Cup 2014, and was used in the dance video game Just Dance 2017. In 2014, Inna collaborated a second time with Pitbull on "Good Time", and was featured on Romanian rapper Puya's "Strigă!", which peaked at number two in Romania. She released her fourth, eponymous studio album in October 2015. Another version of the album, Body and the Sun, was released in Japan in July 2015. One of the singles released from the record was "Diggy Down" (2014), her third number-one hit in Romania. Based on airplay, it won the Best Dance award at the Media Music Awards. Inna's next single, "Bop Bop" (2015), peaked at number two in Romania, and "Rendez Vous" (2016) was certified Gold in Poland. Also in 2015, Inna was the Best Romanian Act and was nominated for Best European Act at the MTV Europe Music Awards. Alexandra Stan's "We Wanna", with Inna and Daddy Yankee, was a moderate hit. Inna also contributed uncredited vocals to Carla's Dreams "Te rog", which went on to reach number one in Romania.

2016–2021: Nirvana, Yo and Heartbreaker
In August 2016, Inna was the opening act at the Untold Festival. She also became a member of the supergroup G Girls, with whom she released two singles ("Call the Police" and "Milk and Honey"). In early 2017, Inna was announced as a coach on Vocea României Junior with Andra and Marius Moga, and in the May of the same year her YouTube channel surpassed two billion total views. The singer's fifth studio album, Nirvana, was released in December 2017. Singles featured on the record included "Gimme Gimme" (2017), "Ruleta" (2017) and "Nirvana" (2017), which attained commercial success in several European countries including Romania and Turkey. "Ruleta" and "Nirvana" peaked at numbers three and two in her native country, respectively. Another pair of top ten singles in Romania, "Nota de plată" and "Pentru că", followed in late 2017 and 2018 with Moldovan group the Motans.Inna released her sixth studio album, Yo, in May 2019. Containing songs written solely in Spanish, Inna took entire creative control over the record and worked extensively with Romanian producer David Ciente. She described Yo's material as experimental and gypsy-influenced, a departure from her previous work. "Ra" was released as the record's lead single in September 2018. It was promoted by several public appearances in Mexico and the United States—including the 2018 Telehit Awards and 19th Annual Latin Grammy Awards—as well as by Inna's inclusion in magazines such as Rolling Stone and Vogue México y Latinoamérica. The singer also signed a record deal with Jay-Z's record label Roc Nation. "Iguana", her follow-up single, went on to reach number four in Romania. In August, Inna launched her digital magazine titled InnaMag.The non-album release "Bebe" with Ugandan artist Vinka peaked at number one on the native Airplay 100 in March 2020, and was the first in a string of singles that sonically returned to a more EDM sound but also encompassed deep house influences. As of 2020, Inna has been a juror for Pro TV's The Masked Singer Romania show. The singer released her seventh studio album, Heartbreaker, on 27 November 2020, which she created during a three-week period with Romanian songwriters and producers such as Sebastian Barac, Marcel Botezan, Ciente and Alexandru Cotoi at a mansion from which she uploaded daily YouTube vlogs to document the progress made; the vlogs constituted the first season of Inna's Dance Queen's House series. In January 2021, Inna's single "Read My Lips" (2020) featuring Colombian singer Farina reached number ten in Romania, and by May, Heartbreaker's lead single "Flashbacks" had peaked at number one in Russia and within the top ten in Romania, Ukraine, Bulgaria and the Commonwealth of Independent States. "Cool Me Down" with Gromee, and "It Don't Matter" with Alok and Sofi Tukker also became hits in selected territories. Inna participated as Alok's special guest at the Untold Festival in September 2021, held at Cluj Arena.

2021–present: Champagne Problems and Just Dance
In October 2021, Inna released the non-album single "Up", whose chart success in countries such as Bulgaria, Poland and Russia peaked in early 2022. The track, eventually receiving a remix with Jamaican rapper Sean Paul, also became Inna's fifth number-one in Romania, topping Uniunea Producătorilor de Fonograme din România's (UPFR) airplay ranking. Champagne Problems, the singer's eighth studio album, was issued in two parts in January and March 2022, as the result of the second season of Dance Queen's House. In June 2022, Inna's single "Tare" with the Motans reached the summit of the Romanian airplay chart. Her ninth studio album, Just Dance, was released in 2023 in two parts.

Philanthropy and awards
In late November 2011, Inna joined the anti-domestic violence campaign Durerea nu este iubire (Pain is Not Love) empowering women to stand up to abuse, and signed a petition asking the Romanian government to strengthen a domestic violence law. An activist for children's rights in Romania, she endorsed the 2012 UNICEF No More Invisible Children campaign. Inna began the Bring the Sun Into My Life campaign to increase public awareness of violence against women. She also recorded "Tu tens la força" ("You Have the Power"), a Catalan language cover version of Gala's "Freed from Desire" (1996), for the 2015 Marató de TV3 telethon. Inna participated in Cartoon Network Romania's anti-bullying CN Clubul Prieteniei (CN Friendship Club) in 2016, and recorded a new opening theme for the Romanian-language version of The Powerpuff Girls.That year, she and other Romanian celebrities signed an open letter supporting the LGBT community in response to a Romanian Orthodox Church-backed action to amend the constitutional definition of a family. This had been criticized by Romanian and international human-rights groups as curtailing LGBT rights. In March 2022, Inna performed at the We Are One benefit concert in Bucharest, whose aim was to raise funds for Ukraine upon its 2022 invasion by Russia.Inna was called "one of Romania's biggest exports" by The Guardian, based on her sales and popularity. She has also received a number of awards and nominations, including five Balkan Music Awards, a European Border Breakers Award, three MTV Europe Music Awards for Best Romanian Act and thirteen Romanian Music Awards. By March 2016, Inna had sold four million copies of her first three studio albums. In 2015, Antena 3 reported that Inna was Romania's best-selling artist abroad.

Personal life
Inna dated her manager Lucian Ștefan for ten years until 2013. In the same year, she began a relationship with the American photographer John Perez, with whom she collaborated on several occasions. Inna began dating Romanian rapper Deliric in 2020. He proposed to her in January 2023. As of March 2017, Inna resided with her mother and grandmother in a villa she bought in Bucharest. She also lives in Barcelona. In May 2018, the singer was hospitalized after collapsing on an unstable stage during her tour in Turkey; the tour was not affected by the event. Inna is multilingual, speaking Romanian, English, Spanish, "a little bit of French" and "a few words in Italian, Arabic, and Russian"; she added that it "help[s] connect easily to different countries and people. It's amazing how music brings us together."

Discography
Studio albums
Hot (2009)
I Am the Club Rocker (2011)
Party Never Ends (2013)
Inna (2015)
Nirvana (2017)
Yo (2019)
Heartbreaker (2020)
Champagne Problems (2022)
Just Dance (2023)
Passage 2:
O Valencia!
"O Valencia!" is the fifth single by the indie rock band The Decemberists, and the first released from their fourth studio album, The Crane Wife.
The music was written by The Decemberists and the lyrics by Colin Meloy. It tells a story of two star-crossed lovers. The singer falls in love with a person who belongs to an opposing gang. At the end of the song, the singer's lover jumps in to defend the singer, who is confronting his lover's brother (the singer's "sworn enemy") and is killed by the bullet intended for the singer.

Track listing
The 7" single sold in the UK was mispressed, with "Culling of the Fold" as the B-side despite the artwork and record label listing "After the Bombs" as the B-side.

Music videos
For the "O Valencia!" music video, The Decemberists filmed themselves in front of a green screen and asked fans to complete it by digitally adding in background images or footage. Stephen Colbert of The Colbert Report, having recently asked fans to do the same with a video of him with a light saber in front of a green screen, brought up The Decemberists on his segment "Look Who's Riding on My Coattails Now" and accused the band of stealing the idea. The Decemberists' response was to challenge Stephen Colbert to a guitar solo showdown on December 20, 2006, on The Colbert Report.On January 19, 2007, The Decemberists premiered an alternate music video of "O Valencia!", directed by Aaron Stewart-Ahn, on MTV2. The video follows a character named Patrick, played by Meloy, as he and his love Francesca (Lisa Molinaro), daughter of "the Boss", plan an escape to an unknown location. At a cafe, a man in a suit, portrayed by the band member Chris Funk, tells him to hide in the "Valencia" hotel (the Super Value Inn on North Interstate Avenue in Portland, Oregon) while he gets them the necessary documentation to escape. Above the name of the hotel, there is a neon sign that reads "Office". The letters have all burnt out except for the "O", creating the title of the song. The video then introduces other characters - various assassination teams - who sit in different rooms of the hotel waiting for the chance to catch the two lovers. Most are portrayed by other members of the band (along with Meloy's wife, Carson Ellis). They kill off any potential witnesses to their plan. Patrick manages to take down one member from each team, before they gang up on him. The Boss arrives, along with the man from the cafe, who reveals that he snitched on Patrick and Francesca. They execute Francesca, while forcing Patrick to watch. After they leave, Patrick finds a note by Francesca, which reveals that she never fell in love with him, and only wanted protection. 2 months later, Patrick and the man, who has lost an eye from a previous assassination attempt, have a sit-down at the same cafe. The man reveals that he snitched on Patrick just to take over the town. Patrick reveals that he poisoned a drink the man was having, but before he could get away, the man stabs Patrick in the neck with a fork before dying, followed by Patrick.
The video is somewhat influenced by the distinct style and themes of director Wes Anderson, with bold fonts being used to introduce characters and groups on the bottom of the screen (much like in the film The Royal Tenenbaums). The band had previously (and more explicitly) drawn influence from Anderson's Rushmore in their video for "Sixteen Military Wives". The layout of the hotel is also similar to the one used in Bottle Rocket.
Kurt Nishimura was chosen as the winner by mtvU for his video that depicted a love affair between a woman and her television, with the TV containing the green-screened Decemberists video footage.
Passage 3:
Ruleta (Inna song)
"Ruleta" (English: "Roulette") is a song recorded by Romanian singer Inna, featuring collaborative vocals by Romanian performer Erik, for her fifth studio album, Nirvana (2017). It was made available for digital download and streaming on 21 June 2017 by Global Records as the album's second single. The track was written by Inna, Erik, Marius Dia and Breyan Isaac, while production was handled by Sebastian Barac, Marcel Botezan and David Ciente. "Ruleta" features lyrics in English and Spanish. It is an EDM and reggaeton-influenced song, with touches of Indian and Caribbean music.
Music critics were positive towards the recording, praising its summery style and noting its commercial appeal. An accompanying music video for "Ruleta" was shot by Barna Nemethi at the Domeniul Greaca resort in Romania. It mainly portrays Inna and other people dancing to the song at a tennis court. Uploaded onto the singer's YouTube channel simultaneously with the single's release, it became trending on the platform worldwide. Commercially, the song reached the top five in Romania, Bulgaria and Turkey.

Background and composition
"Ruleta" was written by Inna, Erik, Marius Dia and Breyan Isaac, while production was handled by Sebastian Barac, Marcel Botezan and David Ciente. The track features lyrics in both English and Spanish language; some of them include: "Una vida ganaste en la ruleta, con tu movimiento gáname". Originally, the single release of "Me Gusta" was expected by Jonathan Currinn of CelebMix, with the singer performing it live for Romanian radio station Radio ZU in April 2017. However, "Ruleta" was made available for digital download and streaming on 21 June 2017 by Global Records instead. Musically, it is an EDM and reggaeton-influenced track, containing touches of Indian and Caribbean music. When asked by a Direct Lyrics interviewer to describe the lyrics and sound of "Ruleta", Inna said, "It's summerish, it's cool, it's fun and I dare to say... it's catchy and addictive!"

Reception
Upon its release, "Ruleta" received positive reviews from music critics. Currinn from CelebMix wrote, "this new song has Inna proving that she's multilingual", and compared the style of "Ruleta" to her "Heaven" (2016). Kevin Apaza, writing for Direct Lyrics thought, "summer doesn't officially start until Romanian pop queen Inna releases her summer single", further calling it "brilliant" and "club-ready". An editor of Bihoreanul praised the "attractive" rhythms of "Ruleta" and noted its potential commercial success in Romania.Commercially, the song debuted at number 32 on Romania's Airplay 100 for the week ending 9 July 2017 as the highest new entry, marking one of Inna's highest debuts on the chart. In late August 2017, "Ruleta" reached its peak position at number three, becoming the singer's highest charting single since "Bop Bop" (2015), which peaked at number two. The track also opened at number 39 on the French Club 40 chart for the week ending 15 July 2017 and rose up to number 26 on the following week. "Ruleta" further charted in other countries, most notably reaching number two in Bulgaria.

Music video
An accompanying music video for "Ruleta" was shot at the Domeniul Greaca resort in Romania by Barna Nemethi, with Marius Apopei serving as the director of photography. Inna recalled the experience, "Actually, I was super chill in that day, super relaxed, just going with the flow. Most of the times, I'm kind of stressed out, because I want everything to be perfect. Not too many funny stuff, just having fun."The clip was uploaded onto her official YouTube channel on 21 June 2017, where it gathered over seven million views in one week, and later 11 million views in 11 days. The video thus became trending on the platform in Romania, Austria, Israel, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Denmark, Germany, Switzerland, Spain, Turkey, Norway, Finland, Ireland, Russia, Mexico, Italy, France, Venezuela, Canada, Peru, Ecuador and Chile. The visual features the singer and a huge crowd of background dancers and other people performing to the song at a tennis court, a night bar, a pool and around a bonfire. Inna wears a white hoodie along with an animal print waistcoat, while Erik also makes appearance sporting a yellow-blue jacket, black shorts and sunglasses. Alex Stănescu from InfoMusic called the music video "summery".

Live performances and other usage
To promote the single, Inna and Erick performed a stripped-down version at Romanian radio stations Kiss FM and Radio ZU on 30 June 2017. Both performances had the same concept, featuring them singing, interspersed with background dancers and two children performing choreography during instrumental parts. Currinn from CelebMix applauded the appearances for Inna's vocal delivery, the singers' chemistry and the dance breaks. Another performance followed on Pro FM in late July 2017, as well as on O Ses Türkiye in December 2018. For Romanian reality talent show Te cunosc de undeva!, Lidia Buble impersonated Inna and delivered a performance of "Ruleta". On 8 December 2017, Inna made an appearance on the seventh season of Romanian reality singing competition Vocea României to perform the song along with "Nirvana" (2017). An alternative version of the song titled "La roulette" was released in February 2018, featuring French disc jockey DJ Sem and French singer Matt Houston. This version was registered on the Wallonian Ultratip chart.

Track listing
Digital download"Ruleta" (featuring Erick) – 3:18

Credits and personnel
Credits adapted from Adevărul.
Elena Alexandra Apostoleanu – lead vocals, composer
Erik Tchatchoua – featured artist, composer
Sebastian Barac – producer
Marcel Botezan – producer
David Ciente – producer
Marius Dia – composer
Breyan Isaac – composer

Charts
Release history
Passage 4:
Panda (Astro song)
Astro is the first album of long duration (after the EP Le disc of Astrou) of Chilean indie band Astro, released in 2011. The first single from the album was "Ciervos" and followed "Colombo", "Panda" and "Manglares".
This album was chosen by National Public Radio among the 50 discs of 2012.

Track listing
All tracks written by Andrés Nusser, except where noted.

Ciervos (Deer)
Coco (Coconut)
Colombo
Druida de las nubes (Druid of the clouds)
Panda
Miu-Miu
Manglares (Mangroves)
Mira, está nevando en las pirámides (Look, it's snowing in the pyramids)
Volteretas (Tumbles)
Pepa
Nueces de Bangladesh (Nuts of Bangladesh)
Miu-Miu reaparece (Miu-Miu reappears)

Personnel
Astro

Andrés Nusser – vocals, guitar
Octavio Caviares – drums
Lego Moustache – keyboards, percussion
Zeta Moustache – keyboards, bassProduction

Andrés Nusser – producer, recording and mixing
Chalo González – mixing and mastering
Cristóbal Carvajal – recording
Ignacio Soto – recording
Passage 5:
Caspar Babypants
Caspar Babypants is the stage name of children's music artist Chris Ballew, who is also the vocalist and bassist of The Presidents of the United States of America.

History
Ballew's first brush with children's music came in 2002, when he recorded and donated an album of traditional children's songs to the nonprofit Program for Early Parent Support titled "PEPS Sing A Long!" Although that was a positive experience for him, he did not consider making music for families until he met his wife, collage artist Kate Endle. Her art inspired Ballew to consider making music that "sounded like her art looked" as he has said. Ballew began writing original songs and digging up nursery rhymes and folk songs in the public domain to interpret and make his own. The first album, Here I Am!, was recorded during the summer of 2008 and released in February 2009.
Ballew began to perform solo as Caspar Babypants in the Seattle area in January 2009. Fred Northup, a Seattle-based comedy improvisor, heard the album and offered to play as his live percussionist.  Northrup also suggested his frequent collaborator Ron Hippe as a keyboard player. "Frederick Babyshirt" and "Ronald Babyshoes" were the Caspar Babypants live band from May 2009 to April 2012. Both Northup and Hippe appear on some of his recordings but since April 2012 Caspar Babypants has exclusively performed solo. The reasons for the change were to include more improvisation in the show and to reduce the sound levels so that very young children and newborns could continue to attend without being overstimulated. 
Ballew has made two albums of Beatles covers as Caspar Babypants. Baby Beatles! came out in September 2013 and Beatles Baby! came out in September 2015.
Ballew runs the Aurora Elephant Music record label, books shows, produces, records, and masters the albums himself. Distribution for the albums is handled by Burnside Distribution in Portland, Oregon.
Caspar Babypants has released a total of 17 albums. The 17th album, BUG OUT!, was released on May 1, 2020. His album FLYING HIGH! was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Children's Album. All 17 of the albums feature cover art by Ballew's wife, Kate Endle.
"FUN FAVORITES!" and "HAPPY HITS!" are two vinyl-only collections of hit songs that Caspar Babypants has released in the last couple of years.

Discography
AlbumsPEPS (2002)
Here I Am! (Released 03/17/09) Special guests: Jen Wood, Fysah Thomas
More Please! (Released 12/15/09) Special guests: Fred Northup, Ron Hippe
This Is Fun! (Released 11/02/10)  Special guests: Fred Northup, Ron Hippe, Krist Novoselic, Charlie Hope
Sing Along! (Released 08/16/11) Special guests: Fred Northup, Ron Hippe, "Weird Al" Yankovic, Stone Gossard, Frances England, Rachel Loshak
Hot Dog! (Released 04/17/12) Special guests: Fred Northup, Ron Hippe, Rachel Flotard (Visqueen)
I Found You! (Released 12/18/12) Special guests: Steve Turner (Mudhoney), Rachel Flotard (Visqueen), John Richards
Baby Beatles! (Released 09/15/13)
Rise And Shine! (Released 09/16/14)
Night Night! (Released 03/17/15)
Beatles Baby! (Released 09/18/2015)
Away We Go! (Released 08/12/2016)
Winter Party! (Released 11/18/16)
Jump For Joy! (Released 08/18/17)
Sleep Tight! (Released 01/19/18)
Keep It Real! (Released 08/17/18)
Best Beatles! (Released 03/29/19)
Flying High! (Released 08/16/19)
Bug Out! (released 05/1/20)
Happy Heart! (Released 11/13/20)
Easy Breezy! (Released 11/05/21)AppearancesMany Hands: Family Music for Haiti CD (released 2010) – Compilation of various artists
Songs Stories And Friends: Let's Go Play – Charlie Hope (released 2011) – vocals on Alouette
Shake It Up, Shake It Off (released 2012) – Compilation of various artists
Keep Hoping Machine Running – Songs Of Woody Guthrie (released 2012) – Compilation of various artists
Apple Apple – The Harmonica Pocket (released 2013) – vocals on Monkey Love
Simpatico – Rennee and Friends (released 2015) – writer and vocals on I Am Not Afraid
Sundrops – The Harmonica Pocket (released 2015) – vocals on Digga Dog Kid
Passage 6:
Jim Bob
James Robert Morrison, known as Jim Bob, is a British musician and author. He was the singer of indie punk band Carter the Unstoppable Sex Machine.

Biography
Jim Bob played in various bands during the late 1970s and early 1980s, including Jamie Wednesday, who were performing between 1984 and 1987. In 1987 Jamie Wednesday split up just before a gig at the London Astoria. Morrison and Les "Fruitbat" Carter filled in, playing along to a backing tape, and Carter USM was born. Jim Bob and Les Carter had known each other since the late 1970s, when their bands The Ballpoints (featuring Jim on vocals) and Dead Clergy (Les on bass and vocals) used to rehearse at the same studio behind Streatham station. When The Ballpoints' bassist quit at the end of 1980, Carter joined the band, who than went on to play several gigs under the name Peter Pan's Playground.
He was a member of Carter USM. The band split up in 1997. Since Carter USM, Jim Bob has released two albums and three singles with his disco-pop-punk group Jim's Super Stereoworld, seven solo albums as Jim Bob or James Robert Morrison, and played various live shows both with his band and solo.  In 2001, he joined his old Carter bandmate Fruitbat on stage once again, as part of the group Who's The Daddy Now?.
In 2005, Cherry Red released a DVD of a live solo acoustic performance, titled Live From London, featuring songs from his solo career as well as many Carter USM tracks. This was followed by a concept album, School, released in March 2006.
A best-of album was released in the autumn of 2006, accompanied by a UK tour. This was originally intended as a download-only release, but a physical CD was produced. The album was accompanied by a free CD of Jim Bob and Jim's Super Stereoworld rarities. The cover design was re-worked by Jim Bob from an image by Jim Connolly.
The album A Humpty Dumpty Thing was released in November 2007 by Cherry Red Records. The album came with a Jim Bob-penned-mini novel, "Word Count". A single from the album, "Battling The Bottle", was released with Jim Bob's re-working of the children's song "The Wheels on the Bus" on the B-side.
Jim Bob's next solo record, Goffam, was a semi-concept album about a city in the grip of crime, deserted by its superheroes. He toured the UK in April and September 2009 promoting the album.
In December 2009 Jim Bob performed his 2004 song "Angelstrike!" as part of the shows The Return of 9 Lessons and Carols for Godless People for two nights at the Bloomsbury Theatre and at Hammersmith Apollo. This was broadcast on BBC4 television under the title 'Nerdstack'.
His debut novel Storage Stories was released  on the day of a UK general election, 6 May 2010, by Ten Forty Books. This was followed by three novels with major publishers: Driving Jarvis Ham, The Extra Ordinary Life of Frank Derrick, Age 81 and Frank Derrick's Holiday of a Lifetime.
Jim Bob's autobiography, Goodnight Jim Bob – On The Road With Carter The Unstoppable Sex Machine, was published by Cherry Red Books in 2004. The sequel, Jim Bob from Carter, was published by Cherry Red Books on 23 March 2019. The double novel A Godawful Small Affair and Harvey King Unboxes His Family, written under the name J.B. Morrison, was published by Cherry Red Books in March 2020.
The 26-second song "2020 WTF!" was released in March 2020 on Cherry Red Records. It was the first single from Jim Bob's August 2020 album, Pop Up Jim Bob. The second single, "Jo's Got Papercuts", followed in June, and a third, "If it Ain't Broke", was released in July.
The album Pop Up Jim Bob was released on Cherry Red Records on 14 August 2020. Entering the official UK album chart at number 26, it was Jim Bob's first top-30 LP since Carter The Unstoppable Sex Machine.
Jim Bob's 13th solo album, Who Do We Hate Today, was released on Cherry Red Records on 20 August 2021 and reached 34 in the UK album charts, his second top-40 solo LP.

Solo discography
All releases credited as Jim Bob unless otherwise stated. See Carter USM and Jamie Wednesday for those bands' discographies.

Albums
Jim's Super Stereoworld, 2001 (Jim's Super Stereoworld)
JR, 2001 (James Robert Morrison)
Big Flash Car on a Saturday Night, 2002 (Jim's Super Stereoworld)
Goodnight Jim Bob, 2003
Angelstrike!, 2004
School, 2006
Best of Jim Bob, 2006
A Humpty Dumpty Thing, November 2007
Goffam, April 2009
What I Think About When I Think About You, November 2013
Jim Bob Sings Again, November 2016
Pop Up Jim Bob, August 2020 
Who Do We Hate Today, August 2021
The Essential Jim Bob, November 2022
Thanks for Reaching Out, June 2023

Singles
Jim's Super Stereoworld – "Bonkers in the Nut", 1999
Jim's Super Stereoworld – "Could U B The 1 I Waited 4", 1999
Jim's Super Stereoworld – "Bubblegum EP", 2002
"Dumb and Dumber", March 2005
"Battling The Bottle (Fighting The Flab, At War with the World)", November 2007
"The Man Behind the Counter of the Science Fiction Superstore", Marc 2009
"Our Heroes", June 2009
"Dream Come True", September 2013
"Breaking News", October 2013
"2020 WTF!", April 2020

Other releases
Acoustic Party 7A Free CD recorded by Morrison at home and given away to the first 10 people to visit the T-shirt stall and ask for Marc or Neil on the October 2003 tour

Stolen from Westlife25 readers of Morrison's book won a copy of the CD 'Stolen From Westlife' – 8 cover versions recorded by Morrison – after answering some questions posed by the author on page 95.

BuskerA free CD recorded by Morrison and containing six acoustic covers, the CD is currently being issued only to members of Morrison's "street team". The CD includes a cover of a track originally written and recorded by his former Carter bandmate Les Carter.

DVDs
Live From London, 2005A DVD featuring a live acoustic performance of Jim Bob songs and Carter USM songs.  Bonus features include an interview with Morrison, Morrison reading excerpts from his autobiography and the video for the Jim's Super Stereoworld song "Bubblegum".

NATIONAL TREASURE – Live at the Shepherd’s Bush Empire , July 2019

Bibliography
Non-fiction

Goodnight Jim Bob (2006) – On the Road With Carter The Unstoppable Sex Machine Jim Bob's autobiographic tale of his time on tour with Carter USM. Published by Cherry Red Books.
Jim Bob from Carter: In the Shadow of my Former Self (2019) Published by Cherry Red BooksFiction

Storage Stories (2010) – Jim Bob's debut novel, which took six years to write. described as a darkly comic rollercoaster ride full of thrills, spills and warm sick on the back of the neck. Published by 1040 Books.
Driving Jarvis Ham (2012) – Jim Bob's second novel, following the life of the awkward character of Jarvis Ham, from the perspective of his oldest friend. A brilliantly witty story of unconventional, unwavering, and regularly exasperating friendship. Published by The Friday Club/HarperCollins 
The Extra Ordinary Life of Frank Derrick, Age 81 (June 2014) – Under the name J.B. Morrison. Published by Pan Macmillan.
Frank Derrick's Holiday Of A Lifetime (2015) Published by Pan Macmillan
A Godawful Small Affair b/w Harvey King Unboxes His Family (2020) – Under the name J.B. Morrison. Published by Cherry Red Books
Passage 7:
Kristian Leontiou
Kristian Leontiou (born February 1982) is an English singer. Formerly a solo artist, he is the lead singer of indie rock band One eskimO.

Early life
Kristian Leontiou was born in London, England and is of Greek Cypriot descent. He went to Hatch End High School in Harrow and worked several jobs in and around London whilst concentrating on music when he had any free time.  In 2003 he signed a major record deal with Polydor. At the time, Leontiou was dubbed "the new Dido" by some media outlets. His debut single "Story of My Life" was released in June 2004 and reached #9 in the UK Singles Chart. His second single "Shining" peaked at #13 whilst the album Some Day Soon was certified gold selling in excess of 150,000 copies.
Leontiou toured the album in November 2004 taking him to the US to work with L.A Reid, Chairman of the Island Def Jam music group.  Unhappy with the direction his career was going, on a flight back from the US in 2004 he decided to take his music in a new direction.  Splitting from his label in late 2005, he went on to collaborate with Faithless on the song "Hope & Glory" for their album ‘'To All New Arrivals'’.  It was this release that saw him unleash the One eskimO moniker.  It was through working with Rollo Armstrong on the Faithless album, that Rollo got to hear an early demo of "Astronauts" from the One eskimO project. Being more than impressed by what he heard, Rollo opened both his arms and studio doors to Leontiou and they began to co-produce the ‘'All Balloons’' album.
It was at this time that he paired up with good friend Adam Falkner, a drummer/musician, to introduce a live acoustic sound to the album. They recorded the album with engineer Phill Brown (engineer for Bob Marley and Robert Plant) at Ark studios in St John's Wood where they recorded live then headed back to Rollo's studio to add the cinematic electro touches that are prominent on the album.
Shortly after its completion, One eskimO's "Hometime" was used on a Toyota Prius advert in the USA. The funds from the advert were then used to develop the visual aspect of One eskimO. He teamed up with friend Nathan Erasmus (Gravy Media Productions) along with animation team Smuggling Peanuts (Matt Latchford and Lucy Sullivan) who together began to develop the One eskimO world, the first animation produced was for the track ‘Hometime’ which went on to win a British animation award in 2008.
In 2008 Leontiou started a new management venture with ATC Music. By mid-2008 Time Warner came on board to develop all 10 One eskimO animations which were produced the highly regarded Passion Pictures in London.  Now with all animation complete and a debut album, One eskimO prepare to unveil themselves fully to the world in summer 2009.
Leontiou released a cover version of Tracy Chapman's "Fast Car", which was originally released as a single in 2005. Leontiou's version was unable to chart, however, due to there being no simultaneous physical release alongside the download single, a UK chart rule that was in place at the time. On 24 April 2011, the song entered the singles chart at number 88 due to Britain's Got Talent contestant Michael Collings covering the track on the show on 16 April 2011.

Discography
Albums
Singles
Notes
A  - Originally released as a single in April 2005, Leontiou's version of "Fast Car" did not chart until 2011 in the UK.

Also featured on
Now That's What I Call Music! 58 (Story of My Life)
Win a Date with Tad Hamilton! OST, Love Love Songs - The Ultimate Love Collection (Shining)
Summerland OST (The Crying)
Passage 8:
Astrid North
Astrid North (Astrid Karina North Radmann; 24 August 1973, West Berlin – 25 June 2019, Berlin) was a German soul singer and songwriter. She was the singer of the German band Cultured Pearls, with whom she released five Albums. As guest singer of the band Soulounge she published three albums.

Career
North had her first experiences as a singer with her student band Colorful Dimension in Berlin. In March 1992 she met B. La (Bela Braukmann) and Tex Super (Peter Hinderthür) who then studied at the Hochschule für Musik und Theater Hamburg and who were looking for a singer for their band Cultured Pearls. The trio entered the German charts with four singles and four albums.

In 1994 North sang for the dance-pop band Big Light on their hit single Trouble Is. In 1996 she was a guest on the side project Little Red Riding Hood by Fury in the Slaughterhouse brothers Kai and Thorsten Wingenfelder which resulted in the release of the single Life's Too Short from the eponymous album.The song Sleepy Eyes, texted and sung by North, appears in the soundtrack of the movie Tor zum Himmel (2003) by director Veit Helmer. In 2003 she appeared at the festival Das Fest in Karlsruhe and sang alongside her own songs a cover version of the Aerosmith hit Walk This Way together with the German singer Sasha. North also toured with the American singer Gabriel Gordon.After the end of her band Cultured Pearls in 2003 North moved 2004 to New York City to write new songs, work with a number of different musicians and to experiment with her music.In 2005 she joined the charity project Home, which produced an album for the benefit of the orphans from the Beluga School for Life in Thailand which have been affected by the Indian Ocean earthquake in 2004 and the subsequent tsunami. Beside the orphans themselves also the following artists have been involved, guitarist Henning Rümenapp (Guano Apes), Kai Wingenfelder (Fury in the Slaughterhouse), Maya Saban and others. With Bobby Hebb Astrid North recorded a new version of his classic hit Sunny. It was the first time Hebb sung this song as duett and it appeared on his last album That's All I Wanna Know.
North sang in 2006 My Ride, Spring Is Near and No One Can Tell on the album The Ride by Basic Jazz Lounge, a project by jazz trumpeter Joo Kraus. In addition, she worked as a workshop lecturer of the Popkurs at the Hochschule für Musik und Theater Hamburg.
In spring 2010 North performed as the opening act of the Fakebling-Tour of Miss Platnum. The magazine Der Spiegel described her as one of the "leading ladies of the local soul scene". On 20 July 2012 her solo debut album North was released.
On 16 September 2016 Astrid North released her second solo album, Precious Ruby, dedicated to her grandmother Precious Ruby North. North used crowdfunding to finance the album. The first single published from this album was the song Miss Lucy. In 2016 she also started her concert series North-Lichter in Berlin's Bar jeder Vernunft to which she invited singers such as Katharina Franck, Elke Brauweiler, Lizzy Scharnofske, Mia Diekow, Lisa Bassenge or Iris Romen.

Life
Astrid North was born in West Berlin, West Germany to Sondria North and Wolf-Dieter Radmann. She commuted between her birth city and her family in Houston, Texas until she was nine years old. In the USA she lived mainly with her grandparents and her time there significantly shaped her musical development.Besides her music career Astrid North worked also as lecturer in Hamburg at the Hochschule für Musik und Theater and as yoga teacher. North was the mother of two children, her daughter was born in 2001 and her son in 2006. Her sister Ondria North works as make-up artist and hair stylist in the German film industry.
She died in June 2019 at the age of 45 years from pancreatic cancer.

Discography
with Cultured PearlsAlbums

1996: Sing Dela Sing (German chart position 92, 3 weeks)
1997: Space Age Honeymoon (German chart position 54, 6 weeks)
1999: Liquefied Days (German chart position 19, 9 weeks)
2002: Life on a Tuesday (German chart position 74, 1 week)Singles

1996: Tic Toc (1996) (German chart position 65, 10 weeks)
1997: Sugar Sugar Honey (German chart position 72, 9 weeks)
1998: Silverball (German chart position 99, 2 weeks)
1999: Kissing the Sheets (German chart position 87, 9 weeks)with Soulounge

2003: The Essence of the Live Event – Volume One
2004: Home
2006: Say It AllSolo

2005: Sunny (Single, Bobby Hebb feat. Astrid North)
2012: North (Album, 20. Juli 2012)
2013: North Live (Album, live recordings from different venues in Germany)
2016: Sunny (Compilation, Bobby Hebb feat. Astrid North)
2016: Precious Ruby (Album, 16. September 2016)as guest singer

1994: Trouble Is – Big Light (Single)
1996: Life's Too Short – Little Red Riding Hood (Single)
2006: Basic Jazz Lounge: The Ride – Joo Kraus (Album)
Passage 9:
Bernie Bonvoisin
Bernard Bonvoisin (French pronunciation: ​[bɛʁnaʁ bɔ̃vwazɛ̃]), known as Bernie Bonvoisin (French pronunciation: ​[bɛʁni bɔ̃vwazɛ̃], born 9 July 1956 in Nanterre, Hauts-de-Seine), is a French hard rock singer and film director. He is best known for having been the singer of Trust.
He was one of the best friends of Bon Scott the singer of AC/DC and together they recorded the song "Ride On" which was one of the last songs by Bon Scott.

External links
Bernie Bonvoisin at IMDb
Passage 10:
Billy Milano
Billy Milano (born June 3, 1964) is an American heavy metal and hardcore punk musician. He is the singer and occasionally guitarist and bassist of crossover thrash band M.O.D., and was the singer of its predecessor, Stormtroopers of Death. Prior to these bands, Milano played in early New York hardcore band the Psychos, which also launched the career of future Agnostic Front vocalist Roger Miret. Milano was also the singer of United Forces, which included his Stormtroopers of Death bandmate Dan Lilker. Milano managed a number of bands, including Agnostic Front, for whom he also co-produced the 1997 Epitaph Records release Something's Gotta Give and roadie for Anthrax.

Discography
Stormtroopers of Death albums
Stormtroopers of Death videos
Method of Destruction (M.O.D.)
Mastery