Passage 1:
James Randall Marsh
James Randall Marsh (1896–1966) was an American artist and the husband of Anne Steele Marsh.

Biography
Marsh was born in 1896 in Paris, France. He was the son of Frederick Dana Marsh and Alice Randall Marsh. He was the brother of the painter Reginald Marsh.He married Anne Steele in 1925 and the couple settled in Essex Fells, New Jersey. There Marsh set up a metal forge which he used to create industrial and residential lighting fixtures. In 1948, the Marshes relocated to Pittstown, New Jersey where James continued operating a forge, expanding the operation to include decorative metal work. His work was mainly in the American Arts and Craft style.

In 1952, Marsh was instrumental in establishing the Hunterdon Art Museum. When an 1836 stone mill became available for sale, Marsh and his neighbors decided to turn it into an art center, with Marsh providing most of the purchase price. The museum, with workshops, is still in operation and the building is listed as Dunham's Mill on the National Register of Historic Places listings in Hunterdon County, New Jersey.In 1964, he purchased the M. C. Mulligan & Sons Quarry, also listed on the NRHP, and donated it to the Clinton Historical Museum, now known as the Red Mill Museum Village. On October 9, 1965, the James Randall Marsh Historical Park was dedicated at the museum.Marsh died on January 20, 1966, in Flemington.
Passage 2:
John A. McDougald
John Angus "Bud" McDougald  (March 14, 1908 – March 15, 1978) was a leading Canadian businessman and owner of Thoroughbred racehorses. In 1975, journalist Peter Newman wrote that, "He may well be the least known and most admired member of the [Canadian] business Establishment. Without question, he is the most powerful."
Born in Toronto, Ontario, he was universally known by the nickname, "Bud". The son of a wealthy investment banker, after working as a stockbroker for Dominion Securities, in 1945 Bud McDougald teamed up with E. P. Taylor to establish Taylor, McDougald and Company Ltd. which would lead to his rise in the Taylor-controlled holding company, Argus Corporation. While McDougald would become involved in the sport of Thoroughbred racing, E. P. Taylor would devote much of his time to building his very successful Windfields Farm. That situation saw McDougald rise within the business to where he was appointed chairman of the board of directors and president of Argus. He was largely responsible for making it one of Canada's dominant business conglomerates that had controlling interest in Dominion Stores, Hollinger Mines, Massey Ferguson, Standard Broadcasting, Crown Trust and Domtar.
McDougald was one of the major biographies in Peter C. Newman's 1975 book, The Canadian Establishment.
McDougald died in Palm Beach, Florida in 1978. Two months after his death his widow and sister-in-law signed documents that gave Conrad Black control of Ravelston Corporation which in turn controlled Argus Corporation.

Thoroughbred racing
Introduced to the sport by E. P. Taylor, McDougald was a founding member of the Jockey Club of Canada. He and his wife owned a number of Thoroughbred racehorses, the most successful of which was Nijinsky's Secret.
Passage 3:
Stan Rice
Stanley Travis Rice Jr. (November 7, 1942 – December 9, 2002) was an American poet and artist. He was the husband of author Anne Rice.

Biography
Rice was born in Dallas, Texas, in 1942. He met his future wife Anne O'Brien in high school. They briefly attended North Texas State University together, before marrying in 1961 and moving to San Francisco in 1962, to enroll at San Francisco State University, where they both earned their bachelor's and master's degrees.
Rice was a professor of English and Creative Writing at San Francisco State University. In 1977, he received the Academy of American Poets' Edgar Allan Poe Award for Whiteboy, and in subsequent years was also the recipient of the Joseph Henry Jackson Award, as well as a writing fellowship from the National Endowment for the Arts. Rice retired after 22 years as Chairman of the Creative Writing program as well as Assistant Director of the Poetry Center in 1989.It was the death of his and Anne's first child, daughter Michele (1966–1972), at age six of leukemia, which led to Stan Rice becoming a published author. His first book of poems, based on his daughter's illness and death, was titled Some Lamb, and was published in 1975. He encouraged his wife to quit her work as a waitress, cook and theater usher in order to devote herself full-time to her writing, and both eventually encouraged their son, novelist Christopher Rice, to become a published author as well.

Rice, his wife and his son moved to Garden District, New Orleans, in 1988, where he eventually opened the Stan Rice Gallery. In 1989, they purchased the Brevard-Rice House, 1239 First Street, built in 1857 for Albert Hamilton Brevard.
Stan Rice's paintings are represented in the collections of the Ogden Museum of Southern Art and the New Orleans Museum of Art. He had a one-person show at the James W. Palmer Gallery, Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, New York. The Art Galleries of Southeastern Louisiana presented an exhibition of selected paintings in March 2005. Prospective plans are underway to present exhibitions of Rice's paintings at various locations in Mexico.In Prism of the Night, Anne Rice said of Stan: "He's a model to me of a man who doesn't look to heaven or hell to justify his feelings about life itself. His capacity for action is admirable. Very early on he said to me, 'What more could you ask for than life itself'?"
Poet Deborah Garrison was Rice's editor at Alfred A. Knopf for his 2002 collection, Red to the Rind, which was dedicated to novelist son Christopher, in whose success as a writer his father greatly rejoiced. Garrison said of Rice: "Stan really attempted to kind of stare down the world, and I admire that."Knopf's Victoria Wilson, who edited Anne's novels and worked with Stan Rice on his 1997 book, Paintings, was particularly impressed by his refusal to sell his artworks, saying, "The great thing about Stan is that he refused to play the game as a painter, and he refused to play the game as a poet."

Personal life
Rice was an atheist.

Death
Stan Rice died of brain cancer at age 60, on December 9, 2002, in New Orleans where he lived and was survived by Anne and Christopher, as well as his mother, Margaret; a brother, Larry; and two sisters, Nancy and Cynthia.
Rice is entombed in Metairie Cemetery in New Orleans.

Poetry collections
Some Lamb (1975)
Whiteboy (1976) (earned the Edgar Allan Poe Award from the Academy of American Poets)
Body of Work (1983)
Singing Yet: New and Selected Poems (1992)
Fear Itself (1997)
The Radiance of Pigs (1999)
Red to the Rind (2002)
False Prophet (2003) (Posthumous)

Poetry video recordings
Two series of recordings – one from 1973 at San Francisco State University and the other from 1996 at the poet's New Orleans home by filmmaker Blair Murphy – capturing Stan Rice reading several of his poems are on the YouTube site dedicated to the poet.

Other books
Paintings (1997)

Footnotes
Notes
Passage 4:
Maude Smith
Hedley Maude Smith, later McDougald (May 9, 1905 – November 17, 1996), was a Canadian pairs skater, who was also known as "Jim" or "Jay". Together with Jack Eastwood she placed tenth at the 1928 Winter Olympics and sixth-seventh at the world championships in 1928, 1930 and 1932. The pair finished second at the national championships in 1929 and 1933 and third in 1934.Smith was married to the prominent Canadian businessman John A. McDougald. She had a younger sister Cecil, who also competed at the 1928 Olympics. Their mother, Maude Delano-Osborne, won the 1892 Canadian tennis championship.
Passage 5:
Alan Pownall
Stephen Alan Fletcher Pownall (born 30 December 1984) is an English singer-songwriter and the husband of actress Gabriella Wilde.

Music
The son of Orlando Pownall, QC, he grew up in Richmond-upon-Thames and was educated at Windlesham House School, Marlborough College and Shiplake College. Originally interested in fashion, he worked for French designer Roland Mouret for two years, where he was advised to study in Milan. He went on to study fashion design but dropped out a year later in 2006 to pursue a music career in London.
After meeting Adele at one of her early gigs, he told her that he was making music and she should look it up. To his surprise, he was contacted via his MySpace profile and asked to support her on her first British tour. As he only had a four-song set, he wrote a lot of his material whilst on tour. He also toured with Paloma Faith, Lissie, Marina and the Diamonds, Noah and the Whale and Florence and the Machine.
He shared a flat in London with fellow singer/songwriter Jay Jay Pistolet (who would go on to become the front man of The Vaccines). He later moved in with Marcus Mumford and Winston Marshall from Mumford and Sons, who he supposedly introduced to Ted Dwane.In one interview he claims to be "all but deaf in right ear."Pownall's debut EP was released on 5 April 2010 through Mercury Records and his album True Love Stories was released on 25 June 2010. They parted company shortly after the release in late 2010, with Pownall taking a two and a half year break from music.
Pownall and   formed the electro-pop duo Pale in late 2012, with Pownall as the singer. Pale has supported The Vaccines and Sky Ferreira on tour.  They worked with Jas Shaw of Simian Mobile Disco to produce their first two singles, released through the independent label 37 Adventures. As of November 2017, their Facebook and Soundcloud pages show that Pale has been dormant since releasing an EP, The Comeback, in 2014.Since 2019, Pownall has been releasing and performing under the pseudonym Alan Power.

Personal life
On 13 September 2014, Pownall married actress Gabriella Wilde. The couple's first son, Sasha Blue Pownall, was born on 3 February 2014. In 2016, Wilde gave birth to their second son, Shiloh Silva Pownall. Gabriella has since given birth to their third son Skye in 2019.

Discography
Studio album
Passage 6:
Stan Marks
Stan Marks is an Australian writer and journalist. He is the husband of Holocaust survivor Eva Marks.

Life
Born in London, Marks moved to Australia aged two. He became a reporter on rural daily papers and then on the State's evening The Herald (Melbourne), reporting and acting as a critic in the Melbourne and Sydney offices. He worked in London, Canada and in New York City for Australian journals. Back in Australia, Stan Marks became Public Relations and Publicity Supervisor for the Australian Broadcasting Commission, looking after television, radio and concerts, including publicity for Isaac Stern, Yehudi Menuhin, Igor Stravinsky, Daniel Barenboim, Maureen Forrester and international orchestras for Radio Australia and the magazine TVTimes. Later he became Public Relations and Publicity Manager for the Australian Tourist Commission, writing articles for newspapers and journals at home and abroad. Marks was also the editor of the Centre News magazine of the Jewish Holocaust Museum and Research Centre for over 16 years.He is the author of 14 books, published in Australia, England, United States, Israel and Denmark. He originated and co-wrote MS, a cartoon strip dealing with male-female relationships, which appeared daily in Australian and New Zealand newspapers. Marks wrote the play VIVE LA DIFFERENCE
about male-female relations in the 21st century.
Stan Marks has given radio talks over BBC, CBC (Canada) and Australian Broadcasting Commission and to numerous groups, schools and organisations on many topics, particularly humour in all its forms. He has written much in Australia and overseas about fostering understanding and combating racism, hatred and prejudice, often advocating one united world.  He wrote the first article (in the London Stage weekly) suggesting a British Commonwealth Arts Festival and then in various journals world wide. He also was first to suggest an Olympics Arts Festival as a way of possibly bringing the nations closer. A believer in bringing age-youth closer, including advocating, in the New York Times and other journals,  a Youth Council at the United Nations and also later an Australian organization to help young and old to better understand each other and work together.

Merits
Order of Australia for community activities, 2007
Glen Eira Citizen of the Year for community activities
B'nai B'rith Merit award for services to the community

Works
God gave you one face (1966)
Animal Olympics (1972)
Rarua lives in Papua New Guinea (1973)
Malvern sketchbook (1980)
Out & About In Melbourne (1988)
St Kilda heritage sketch book (1995)
Reflections, 20 years 1984-2004 : Jewish Holocaust Museum and Research Centre Melbourne (2004)
Passage 7:
Andrew Upton
Andrew Upton is an Australian playwright, screenwriter, and director. He has adapted the works of Gorky, Chekhov, Ibsen, and others for London's Royal National Theatre and the Sydney Theatre Company. He wrote the original play Riflemind (2007), which premiered at the Sydney Theatre Company to favourable reviews, with Hugo Weaving starring and Philip Seymour Hoffman directing the London production.
Upton and his wife, the actor Cate Blanchett, are the co-founders of the film production company, Dirty Films, under which Upton served as a producer for the Australian film Little Fish (2005). Upton and Blanchett became joint artistic directors of the Sydney Theatre Company from 2008 until 2012.

Early life and education
Upton attended The King's School, Parramatta and University of Sydney.

Career
As a playwright, Upton created adaptations of Hedda Gabler, The Cherry Orchard, Cyrano de Bergerac, Don Juan (with Marion Potts), Uncle Vanya, The Maids, Children of the Sun and Platonov for the Sydney Theatre Company (STC) and Maxim Gorky's The Philistines for the Royal National Theatre in London.Upton's original play Riflemind opened with Hugo Weaving, playing an ageing rock star planning a comeback, at the Sydney Theatre Company on 5 October 2007, and received a  favourable review in Variety (magazine). The London production of Riflemind, directed by Philip Seymour Hoffman, opened in 2008, but closed as a result of the financial pressure of the Global Financial Crisis after receiving poor popular press reviews.In 2008, Upton and wife Cate Blanchett became joint artistic directors of the Sydney Theatre Company for what became a five-year term.Upton and Blanchett formed a film production company, Dirty Films, whose projects include the films Bangers (1999) and Little Fish (2006). Upton wrote, produced and directed the short, Bangers, which starred Blanchett. Upton shares writing credits for the feature film Gone (2007).Upton wrote the libretto to Alan John's opera Through the Looking Glass, which premiered with the Victorian Opera in Melbourne in May 2008.Upton acted in one of Julian Rosenfeldt's thirteen-part art film, Manifesto (2015).

Awards and recognition
In June, 2014, Upton was recognised with the Rotary Professional Excellence Award, an award instituted "to honour a person who has demonstrated consistent professional excellence in his or her chosen vocation by contributing to the benefit of the wider community beyond their typical workplace role".

Personal life
Upton and Blanchett met in Australia in the mid-1990s and married on 29 December 1997. The couple have three sons and one daughter, the latter adopted in 2015. The couple's children appeared with Upton in segment 11 of the 2015 film Manifesto.Upton and Blanchett purchased a house in East Sussex, England, in early 2016.
Passage 8:
Devisingh Ransingh Shekhawat
Devisingh Ramsingh Shekhawat (c. 1934 – 24 February 2023) was an Indian agriculturist and politician who served as the first gentleman of India as the husband of President Pratibha Patil. He also served as the first gentleman of Rajasthan and also as mayor of Amravati. He was a member of the Indian National Congress.

Early life
Devisingh Ramsingh Shekhawat, who was then a lecturer in chemistry, married Pratibha Patil on 7 July 1965. The couple had a daughter and a son, Raosaheb Shekhawat, who is also a politician.Shekhawat was awarded a PhD from the University of Mumbai in 1972. Prior to his wife's elevation to her presidential role, he had been principal of a college operated by his wife's Vidya Bharati Shikshan Sanstha foundation and also a First Mayor of Amravati (1991–1992). Like his wife, he was a member of the Indian National Congress party. He was also an agriculturalist and a former member of the Legislative Assembly, being elected for the period 1985–1990 from the Amravati constituency in the Maharashtra state legislature. He lost his deposit in the 1995 contest for that constituency.Various accusations against Shekhawat and Patil emerged after the latter was nominated for the office of president. Among these was the case of Kisan Dhage, a teacher in a school run by Vidya Prasarak Shikshan Mandal in Buldana district, who committed suicide in November 1998. He left a note saying that he was committing suicide because he was tired of the mental harassment caused by Shekhawat, who was chairman of the institution, and four others. When the police registered the case as "accidental death", Dhage's wife appealed to the Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) in Jalgaon Jamod, a tehsil in Buldana district. The JMFC ordered the police to start criminal proceedings. Shekhawat petitioned the courts seeking dismissal of charges of abetting Dhage's suicide. Two lower courts turned down this plea and by June 2007 the issue was pending in the Bombay High Court. A judge at that court dismissed the charges against Shekhawat in 2009 on the grounds that there was no proof of direct involvement, although one of his co-accused remained subject to the proceedings.In 2009, a court ruled that Shekhawat had colluded with five relatives and local officials to illegally transfer into his ownership 2.5 acres (1.0 ha) of land in Chandrapur belonging to a Dalit farmer. This was one of several allegations of corruption and irregularities to emerge during Patil's presidency in relation to her and her family.

First Gentleman of Rajasthan (2004–2007)
Upon Shekhawat's wife's succession as governor of Rajasthan, he moved into Raj Bhavan, Jaipur succeeding as the first gentleman of Rajasthan for 3 years.

First Gentleman of India (2007–2012)
On 25 July 2007 Shekhawat became the first first gentleman of India upon his wife's succession as the twelfth — and first woman — President of India for a full five-year term.

Death
Shekhawat died on 24 February 2023 at the age of 89.
Passage 9:
Lapidoth
Lapidoth (Hebrew: לַפִּידוֹת Lapīḏōṯ, "torches") was the husband of Deborah the fourth Judge of Israel. Lapidoth is also a Hebrew male given name.
Passage 10:
Jon Leach
Jonathan Leach (born April 18, 1973) is a former professional tennis player from the United States. He is the husband of Lindsay Davenport.

Professional career
Leach, an All-American player at USC, made his Grand Slam debut at the 1991 US Open when he partnered David Witt in the men's doubles. He competed in the doubles at Indian Wells in 1992 with Brian MacPhie and before exiting in the second round they defeated a seeded pairing of Luke Jensen and Laurie Warder. A doubles specialist, his only singles appearance came at Indian Wells in 1994. With Brett Hansen-Dent as his partner, Leach made the second round of the 1995 US Open, with a win over Dutch players Richard Krajicek and Jan Siemerink. At the 1996 US Open, his third and final appearance at the tournament, Leach partnered with his brother Rick. He also played in the mixed doubles, with Amy Frazier. His only doubles title on the ATP Challenger Tour came at Weiden, Germany in 1996.

Personal life
The son of former USC tennis coach Dick Leach, he was brought up in California and went to Laguna Beach High School. Leach married tennis player Lindsay Davenport in Hawaii on April 25, 2003. Their first child, a son named Jagger, was born in 2007. They have had a further three children, all daughters. An investment banker, Leach is also involved in coaching and worked with young American player Madison Keys in the 2015 season. His elder brother, Rick Leach, was also a professional tennis player, who won five Grand Slam doubles titles and reached number one in the world for doubles.

Challenger titles
Doubles: (1)