Passage 1:
Christiane Wartenberg
Christiane Wartenberg (née Stoll, born 27 October 1956 in Prenzlau) is a German athlete who competed mainly in the 1500 metres.
She competed for East Germany in the 1980 Summer Olympics held in Moscow, Russia in the 1500 metres where she won the Silver medal.
Passage 2:
Empress Shōken
Empress Dowager Shōken (昭憲皇太后, Shōken-kōtaigō, 9 May 1849 – 9 April 1914), born Masako Ichijō (一条勝子, Ichijō Masako), was the wife of Emperor Meiji of Japan. She is also known under the technically incorrect name Empress Shōken (昭憲皇后, Shōken-kōgō). She was one of the founders of the Japanese Red Cross Society, whose charity work was known throughout the First Sino-Japanese War.

Early life
Lady Masako Ichijō was born on 9 May 1849, in Heian-kyō, Japan. She was the third daughter of Tadayoshi Ichijō, former Minister of the Left and head of the Fujiwara clan's Ichijō branch. Her adoptive mother was one of Prince Fushimi Kuniie's daughters, but her biological mother was Tamiko Niihata, the daughter of a doctor from the Ichijō family. Unusually for the time, she had been vaccinated against smallpox. As a child, Masako was somewhat of a prodigy: she was able to read poetry from the Kokin Wakashū by the age of 4 and had composed some waka verses of her own by the age of 5. By age seven, she was able to read some texts in classical Chinese with some assistance and was studying Japanese calligraphy. By the age of 12, she had studied the koto and was fond of Noh drama. She excelled in the studies of finances, ikebana and Japanese tea ceremony.The major obstacle to Lady Masako's eligibility to become empress consort was the fact that she was 3 years older than Emperor Meiji, but this issue was resolved by changing her official birth date from 1849 to 1850. They became engaged on 2 September 1867, when she adopted the given name Haruko (美子), which was intended to reflect her 
serene beauty and diminutive size.
The Tokugawa Bakufu promised 15,000 ryō in gold for the wedding and assigned her an annual income of 500 koku, but as the Meiji Restoration occurred before the wedding could be completed, the promised amounts were never delivered. The wedding was delayed partly due to periods of mourning for Emperor Kōmei,  for her brother Saneyoshi, and the political disturbances around Kyoto between 1867 and 1868.

Empress of Japan
Lady Haruko and Emperor Meiji's wedding was finally officially celebrated on 11 January 1869. She was the first imperial consort to receive the title of both nyōgō and of kōgō (literally, the emperor's wife, translated as "empress consort"), in several hundred years. However, it soon became clear that she was unable to bear children. Emperor Meiji already had 12 children by 5 concubines, though: as custom in Japanese monarchy, Empress Haruko adopted Yoshihito, her husband's eldest son by Lady Yanagihara Naruko, who became Crown Prince. On 8 November 1869, the Imperial House departed from Kyoto for the new capital of Tokyo. In a break from tradition, Emperor Meiji insisted that the Empress and the senior ladies-in-waiting should attend the educational lectures given to the Emperor on a regular basis about national conditions and developments in foreign nations.

Influence
On 30 July 1886, Empress Haruko attended the Peeresses School's graduation ceremony in Western clothing. On 10 August, the imperial couple received foreign guests in Western clothing for the first time when hosting a Western Music concert.From this point onward, the Empress' entourage wore only Western-style clothes in public, to the point that in January 1887 
Empress Haruko issued a memorandum on the subject: traditional Japanese dress was not only unsuited to modern life, but Western-style dress was closer than the kimono to clothes worn by Japanese women in ancient times.In the diplomatic field, Empress Haruko hosted the wife of former US President Ulysses S. Grant during his visit to Japan. She was also present for her husband's meetings with Hawaiian King Kalākaua in 1881. Later that same year, she helped host the visit of the sons of future British King Edward VII: Princes Albert Victor and George (future George V), who presented her with a pair of pet wallabies from Australia.On  26 November 1886, Empress Haruko accompanied her husband to Yokosuka, Kanagawa to observe the new Imperial Japanese Navy cruisers Naniwa and Takachiho firing torpedoes and performing other maneuvers. From 1887, the Empress was often at the Emperor's side in official visits to army maneuvers. When Emperor Meiji fell ill in 1888, Empress Haruko took his place in welcoming envoys from Siam, launching warships and visiting Tokyo Imperial University. In 1889, Empress Haruko accompanied Emperor Meiji on his official visit to Nagoya and Kyoto. While he continued on to visit naval bases at Kure and Sasebo, she went to Nara to worship at the principal Shinto shrines.Known throughout her tenure for her support of charity work and women's education during the First Sino-Japanese War (1894–95), Empress Haruko worked for the establishment of the Japanese Red Cross Society. She participated in the organization's administration, especially in their peacetime activities in which she created a money fund for the International Red Cross. Renamed "The Empress Shōken Fund", it is presently used for international welfare activities. After Emperor Meiji moved his military headquarters from Tokyo to Hiroshima to be closer to the lines of communications with his troops, Empress Haruko joined her husband in March 1895. While in Hiroshima, she insisted on visiting hospitals full of wounded soldiers every other day of her stay.

Death
After Emperor Meiji's death in 1912, Empress Haruko was granted the title Empress Dowager (皇太后, Kōtaigō) by her adoptive son, Emperor Taishō. She died in 1914 at the Imperial Villa in Numazu, Shizuoka and was buried in the East Mound of the Fushimi Momoyama Ryo in Fushimi, Kyoto, next to her husband. Her soul was enshrined in Meiji Shrine in Tokyo. On 9 May 1914, she received the posthumous name Shōken Kōtaigō (昭憲皇太后). Her railway-carriage can be seen today in the Meiji Mura Museum, in Inuyama, Aichi prefecture.

Honours
National
Grand Cordon of the Order of the Precious Crown, 1 November 1888

Foreign
She received the following orders and decorations:
 Russian Empire: Grand Cross of the Order of St. Catherine, 13 December 1887
 Spain: Dame of the Order of Queen Maria Luisa, 29 November 1889
 Siam: Dame of the Order of the Royal House of Chakri, 12 October 1899
 German Empire: Dame of the Order of Louise, 1st Class, 19 May 1903
 Kingdom of Bavaria: Dame of Honour of the Order of Theresa, 29 February 1904
 Korean Empire: Grand Cordon of the Order of the Auspicious Phoenix, 27 July 1908

Ancestry
See also
Empress of Japan
Ōmiya Palace

Notes
Passage 3:
Agatha (wife of Samuel of Bulgaria)
Agatha (Bulgarian: Агата, Greek: Άγάθη; fl. late 10th century) was the wife of Emperor Samuel of Bulgaria.

Biography
According to a later addition to the history of the late-11th-century Byzantine historian John Skylitzes, Agatha was a captive from Larissa, and the daughter of the magnate of Dyrrhachium, John Chryselios. Skylitzes explicitly refers to her as the mother of Samuel's heir Gavril Radomir, which means that she was probably Samuel's wife. On the other hand, Skylitzes later mentions that Gavril Radomir himself also took a beautiful captive, named Irene, from Larissa as his wife. According to the editors of the Prosopographie der mittelbyzantinischen Zeit, this may have been a source of confusion for a later copyist, and Agatha's real origin was not Larissa, but Dyrrhachium. According to the same work, it is likely that she had died by ca. 998, when her father surrendered Dyrrhachium to the Byzantine emperor Basil II.Only two of Samuel's and Agatha's children are definitely known by name: Gavril Radomir and Miroslava. Two further, unnamed, daughters are mentioned in 1018, while Samuel is also recorded as having had a bastard son.Agatha is one of the central characters in Dimitar Talev's novel Samuil.
Passage 4:
Frank Wartenberg
Frank Wartenberg (born 29 May 1955 in Bülzig) is a retired East German long jumper.
He won the bronze medal at the 1976 Summer Olympics held in Montreal. He also won the 1973 European Junior Championships, finished eighth at the 1974 European Indoor Championships and 
fifth at the 1977 European Indoor Championships. He became East German champion in 1976 representing the sports club SC Chemie Halle.His personal best jump was 8.18 metres, achieved in July 1976 in East Berlin.In 1977 he married Christiane Wartenberg, née Stoll.
Passage 5:
Alma Wartenberg
Wilhelmine Catharina Alma Wartenberg (born Stähr; * 22 December 1871 in Ottensen; died 25 December 1928 in Altona) was a member of the Social Democratic Party of Germany und Women's Rights Activists.

Life
Alma Wartenberg was born into a social democratic working class family with twelve children. She worked as a housemaid until she married the locksmith Ferdinand Wartenberg. They had four children
In Hamburg-Ottensen was crucially engaged in forming the proletarian women's movement. 1902 to 1906 she was elected every year on women's congresses as a social democratic delegate for the constituency Ottensen/Pinneberg. Asagitator amongst working women, Wartenberg toured through the North-German state of Schleswig-Holstein and participated in women's conferences and party conventions as a delegate. 1905 she initiated with others a campaign against the judgement of the Altona court to release four young and middle class men after they had been found guilty of the rape of a housemaid. During and after the campaign, Wartenberg supported a collaboration with the so-called "Radicals" of the middle class women's movement. This contradicted the official party policy and brought her in conflict with the party leadership. A procedure to expel her from the party was stopped. However, she was nonetheless forced to put down her responsibilities as a delegate.
Being denied to continue working as a delegate for the party, Wartenberg took action especially for maternity protection, birth control and sexual education. High infant mortality rate, widespread „women's suffering“ due to many births, miscarriages and a large number of illegal abortions, lack of information to sexual issues and missing government support had alarmed her. Again, she toured the country, this time with pictured slide shows, to educate about female anatomy, contraception and mother protection. Her shows drew hundreds of listeners. After her show she publicly sold contraception, even though the "sale or transmission of hygienic rubber articles" was liable to prosecution in the  German Empire. With this she didn't only antagonize the Empire's judiciary but also the association of doctors and especially ecclesiastic circles. Repeatedly she was prosecuted for „offense of public nuisance“. However, she insisted on every woman's right to decide over her body and number of births alone.
Again in contradiction with official party policy, Wartenberg supported the idea of a „birthing strike“ that was controversially discussed within social democracy as a protest against the compulsion to give birth propagated by the state.
In 1919, Alma Wartenberg became the SPD's delegate in the Altona Stadtverordnetenkollegium. In 1925 she was elected as the sole female member of the Landtag Schleswig-Holstein gewählt.
After a stroke she stepped back from all her responsibilities in 1927 and died in the following year.

Honours
In 1997, a public place was named after Alma Wartenberg.

Further reading
Inge Döll-Krämer: "Alma Wartenberg – sozialdemokratische „Vertrauensperson“ in Ottensen", in:  Aufgeweckt. Frauenalltag in vier Jahrhunderten. Ein Lesebuch. ergebnisse Verlag, Hamburg 1988, S. 182–194.
Heike Haarhoff: "Späte Straßen-(Um)Taufe. Der neue Alma-Wartenberg-Platz wird heute gefeiert", in: taz (8. März 1997), Hamburg Spezial 66, S. 42.
Robert Jütte: Lust ohne Last. Geschichte der Empfängnisverhütung. Beck, München 2003, S. 257.
Gisela Notz (Hrsg.): Kalender 2005. Wegbereiterinnen III (PDF; 952 kB). Bonn: Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung 2004, Kalenderblatt für Oktober.
Rita Bake: Wer steckt dahinter? Nach Frauen benannte Straßen, Plätze und Brücken in Hamburg. Landeszentrale für politische Bildung, Hamburg 2005 (4. Auflage), S. 20f.
"Wer war eigentlich ...? Alma Wartenberg (1871–1928)", in: Ottenser – das unabhängige Stadtteilmagazin 01 (Mai/Juni 2006) (PDF; 4,0 MB), S. 13.
Bodo Schümann: "Wartenberg, Wilhelmine Catharina Alma". In: Franklin Kopitzsch, Dirk Brietzke. Hamburgische Biografie, Personen-Lexikon. Wallstein, Göttingen 2012, ISBN 978-3-8353-1025-4, S. 359–361.

External links

Biografie Wartenbergs auf der Seite des Stadtteilarchivs Ottensen
Passage 6:
Eunoë (wife of Bogudes)
Eunoë Maura was the wife of Bogudes, King of Western Mauretania. Her name has also been spelled Euries or Euryes or Eunoa.

Biography
Early life
Eunoë Maura was thought to be descended from Berbers, but her name is Greek so it appears she might have been from there or had Greek ancestry. She was likely of very high status, as she is mentioned by historian Suetonius in the same context as Cleopatra.

Marriage
At an unspecified early date in her marriage to her husband Bogud he mounted an expedition along the Atlantic coast, seemingly venturing into the tropics. When he returned he presented his wife Eunoë with gigantic reeds and asparagus he had found on the journey.She is believed to have been a mistress of Julius Caesar. She may have replaced Cleopatra in Caesar's affections, when he arrived in North Africa prior to the Battle of Thapsus on 6 April 46 BC, the two were among several queens courted by Caesar. It is also possible that they first met in Spain if she accompanied her husband there on a campaign. Only a brief romance for the Roman, both Eunoe and Bogudes profited through gifts bestowed on them by Caesar. Caesar departed from Africa in June 46 BC, five and a half months after he landed.

Cultural depictions
Eunoë and Caesar's affair is greatly exaggerated and expanded on in the Medieval French prose work Faits des Romains. Jeanette Beer in her book A Medieval Caesar states that the Roman general is "transformed into Caesar, the medieval chevalier" in the text, and that the author is more interested in Caesar's sexual dominance over the queen than the political dominance he held over her husband Bogud. The text describes her; "Eunoe was the most beautiful woman in four kingdoms — nevertheless, she was Moorish", which Beer further analysed as being indicative of the fact that it was unimaginable to audiences of the time to believe that a lover of Caesar could be ugly, but that Moors still represented everything that was ugly to them.Eunoë has also been depicted in several novels about Caesar, as well as serialized stories in The Cornhill Magazine. In such fiction her character often serves as a foil for the relationship between Caesar and another woman, mostly Cleopatra, such as in The Memoirs of Cleopatra, The Bloodied Toga and When We Were Gods. In Song of the Nile she also plays a posthumous role as a person of interest for Cleopatra's daughter Selene II who became queen of Mauritania after her.Eunoe has also been depicted in a numismatic drawing by Italian artist and polymath Jacopo Strada, who lived in the 16th century. There is however no archaeological evidence of a coin that bears her name or picture.

See also
Women in ancient Rome
Passage 7:
Hafsa Hatun
Hafsa Hatun (Ottoman Turkish: حفصه خاتون, "young lioness") was a Turkish princess, and a consort of Bayezid I, Sultan of the Ottoman Empire.

Life
Hafsa Hatun was the daughter of Isa Bey, the ruler of the Aydinids. She was married to Bayezid in 1390, upon his conquest of the Aydinids. Her father had surrendered without a fight, and a marriage was arranged between her and Bayezid. Thereafter, Isa was sent into exile in Iznik, shorn of his power, where he subsequently died. Her marriage strengthened the bonds between the two families.

Charities
Hafsa Hatun's public works are located within her father's territory and may have been built before she married Bayezid. She commissioned a fountain in Tire city and a Hermitage in Bademiye, and a mosque known as "Hafsa Hatun Mosque" between 1390 and 1392 from the money she received in her dowry.

See also
Ottoman dynasty
Ottoman Empire
Passage 8:
Artaynte
Artaynte (f. 478 BC), was the wife of the Crown Prince Darius.

Life
Daughter of an unnamed woman and Prince Masistes, a marshall of the armies during the invasion of Greece in 480-479 BC, and the brother of King Xerxes I.
During the Greek campaign Xerxes developed a passionate desire for the wife of Masistes, but she would constantly resist and would not bend to his will. Upon his return to Sardis, the king endeavoured to bring about the marriage of his son Daris to Artaynte, the daughter of this woman the wife of Masistes, supposing that by doing so he could obtain her more easily.
After moving to Susa he brought Artaynte to the royal house with him for his son Daris, but fell in love with her himself, and after obtaining her they became lovers. 
At the behest of Xerxes, Artaynte committed adultery with him (Xerxes). When queen Amestris found out, she did not seek revenge against Artaynte, but against her mother, Masistes' wife, as Amestris thought that it was her connivance. On Xerxes' birthday, Amestris sent for his guards and mutilated Masistes' wife by cutting off her breasts and threw them to dogs, and her nose and ears and lips also, and cutting out her tongue as well. On seeing this, Masistes fled to Bactria to start a revolt, but was intercepted by Xerxes' army who killed him and his sons.
Passage 9:
Catherine Exley
Catherine Exley (1779–1857) was an English diarist. She was the wife of a soldier who accompanied her husband when he served in Portugal, Spain, and Ireland during the Napoleonic Wars. Exley is best known as the author of a diary that gives an account of military life in that era from the viewpoint of the wife of a common soldier.

Background
Catherine Whitaker was born at Leeds in 1779 and married Joshua Exley there in 1806. Between  1805 and 1815, Joshua served in the Second Battalion of the 34th Regiment of Foot, initially as a private and then for a little over two years, as a corporal. Exley accompanied her husband for a substantial portion of this time and in due course wrote an account that is probably unique in that it records and reflects on life in the British Army from the perspective of the wife of a soldier who did not reach the rank of an officer.

The diary
Catherine's diary was first published as a booklet issued shortly after her death. A single copy of the booklet is known to exist, it was also reprinted in The Dewsbury Reporter during August 1923. The text of the diary is included in full in a more recently issued book, edited by Professor Rebecca Probert, along with essays on its military and religious context, the treatment of prisoners of war and the role of women in the British, French and Spanish armed forces during the Peninsular War.
The diary unfolds the hardships that both Catherine and her husband suffered during his military service, including one period when they both wrongly thought that the other had died. There are detailed accounts of the births and deaths of children, the cold, hunger and filthy conditions of military life and the horror of the aftermaths of battles. Details of the author's religious experiences which led her to membership of the Methodist church also appear. Exley wrote the diary during the last 20 years before her death, which took place in 1857 at Batley, Yorkshire.
Passage 10:
Elke Büdenbender
Elke Büdenbender (born 14 January 1962) is a German jurist, and, since 1995, the wife of Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the current President of Germany.

Early life
Büdenbender attended intermediate secondary school in Siegen, after which she trained as an industrial clerk at a company in the machine building industry in Siegen. In 1982 she attended Siegerland College in Siegen and then worked as a clerk at a logistics company. In 1985, she began her degree in law at Justus Liebig University in Giessen, where she passed her first state law examination in 1991.

Career
From 1987, Büdenbender worked as a student assistant and later as a research assistant to Professor Brun-Otto Bryde at the Chair of Public Law. She completed her practical legal training at Hanover Regional Court in 1994, when she passed her second state law examination. 
Thereafter, Büdenbender worked as a judge at Hanover Administrative Court. She has been a judge at Berlin Administrative Court since 2000. She is currently on long-term leave in order to devote her time to being the first lady.

Other activities
German-Israeli Future Forum, Member of the Board of Trustees

Personal life
In 1995 Büdenbender married Frank-Walter Steinmeier, who was elected as the twelfth President of the Federal Republic of Germany on 12 February 2017. They have one daughter. On 24 August 2010, she received a kidney transplant that was donated by her husband.

Honours
Foreign Honours
 Denmark: Dame Grand Cross of the Order of the Dannebrog (19 November 2021)
 Finland: Grand Cross of the Order of the White Rose of Finland (17 September 2018)
 Iceland: Grand Cross of the Order of the Falcon (16 June 2019)
 Italy: Grand Cross of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic (17 September 2019)
 Latvia: Commander Grand Cross of the Order of the Three Stars (19 February 2019)
 Netherlands: Dame Grand Cross of the Order of the Crown (5 July 2021)
 Spain: Dame Grand Cross of the Order of Isabella the Catholic (11 October 2022)
 Sweden: Commander Grand Cross of the Royal Order of the Polar Star (7 September 2021)