Passage 1:
Philip Pendleton Barbour
Philip Pendleton Barbour (May 25, 1783 – February 25, 1841) was the tenth speaker of the United States House of Representatives and an associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. He is the only individual to serve in both positions. He was also a slave owner.Born in Gordonsville, Virginia, Barbour established a legal career in Gordonsville after studying at the College of William & Mary. Several members of Barbour's family, including his brother, James Barbour, went on to hold prominent political office. Barbour won election to the House of Representatives in 1814 as a member of the Democratic-Republican Party. He served a single term as Speaker from 1821 to 1823 and declined to seek re-election to Congress in 1824. Barbour returned to Congress in 1827 as an ally of Andrew Jackson.
Barbour served in Congress until 1830, when he accepted appointment as a judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. President Jackson appointed Barbour to the Supreme Court in 1835 to fill a vacancy caused by the resignation in 1835 of Gabriel Duvall. Barbour served on the Court until his death in 1841. On the Court, Barbour generally supported Jacksonian principles and states' rights.

Early and family life
Barbour was born near Gordonsville, Orange County, Virginia, as the son of a planter, Thomas Barbour, who was a legislator, neighbor and early political sponsor of James Madison. He was named for his ancestor Philip Pendleton, through whom he was related to Edmund Pendleton, a politician and judge. The family was one of the First Families of Virginia, descended from a Scottish merchant who married a Miss Taliaferro and made his home in nearby Culpeper County, Virginia.Like his brother James Barbour, Philip attended common and private schools before beginning formal legal studies under jurist St. George Tucker in Williamsburg, Virginia, but financial circumstances forced Tucker to end this arrangement in 1799.
He soon moved to Kentucky to make his fortune, where after a year reading law, he was admitted to the bar, and began practicing law in Bardstown. After another year, friends persuaded him to return to Virginia and resume his studies at the College of William & Mary, so in 1802, he began practicing law near his family home in Gordonsville.In 1804, Barbour married a local planter's daughter, Frances Johnson, with whom he had one son named Sextus Barbour.

Political and early judicial career
Barbour practiced law for eight years before he started his public life as a member of the Virginia House of Delegates from 1812 to 1814.  When U.S. Representative John Dawson died, Barbour won the special election to fill the seat, and served as a Jeffersonian Republican in the U.S. House of Representatives from September 19, 1814 to March 4, 1825, reaching the office of Speaker from 1821 to 1823. Barbour entered politics as the nation witnessed a political shift in which former state's rights activists such as current President James Madison, Henry Clay, and his brother James, now a U.S. Senator, began supporting nationalistic policies. Throughout this shift in power, Philip Barbour remained a strong advocate of Jeffersonian "Old Republican" principles of states' rights and maintaining a strict construction of the Constitution.

First term in Congress
Barbour's reputation for constitutional conservatism grew with his opposition to the Bonus Bill of 1817. The Bill permitted the federal funding of internal
improvement projects such as building roads like that being constructed to connect Buffalo, New York to New Orleans, Louisiana, through Washington. Barbour viewed federally funded internal projects as outside the sphere of Congress' powers and therefore unconstitutional and undermining state sovereignty. Barbour viewed states as sovereign, political communities, independent of an overarching political dynasty and free to secede from the Union if the federal government infringed on the rights of the states, an argument that he employed when countering restrictions to Missouri's admission to the Union as a slave state. 
Barbour also defended Missouri's ban on free Black Americans entering the state. To those who argued that this ban was a violation of Article IV of the Constitution, he replied that banning free Black Americans was no different than banning destitute white men who would become a burden on the state. He argued that the term "citizen" did not apply to Black Americans, whether free or not.His opposition to national restrictions on slave states served to foment his passion for states' rights but also develop his pro-slavery argument in politics. As a Congressman, Barbour was the first prominent politician to openly contest the constitutionality of protective tariffs.

Cohens v. Virginia
In Cohens v. Virginia (1821), Congressman Barbour represented the Commonwealth of Virginia to argue the issue of the Supreme Court's jurisdiction to hear the case, in which two men from Baltimore were convicted for selling D.C. lottery tickets in Virginia. Barbour unsuccessfully argued that the Supreme Court lacked jurisdiction, since the law banning the sale of foreign lottery tickets was not meant to affect Virginia, rendering this a purely local issue. He also maintained that the suit was barred by the Eleventh Amendment, which prohibits suit against a state without its consent. However, Chief Justice Marshall held that the Court had jurisdiction based on the Supremacy Clause, Art. VI, cl. 2. This case strengthened Barbour's reputation as an Old Republican leader in a political system in which Virginian influence was waning and power was shifting between parties with the election of Andrew Jackson as the seventh President of the United States.

Jacksonian Democratic-Republican Party
Andrew Jackson's election in 1828 led to the bifurcation of the Old Republican Party into the Jacksonian Democratic Republicans and the opposing National Republicans. Jackson formed the Democratic party on the foundation of Old Republican principles, such as Jefferson's displeasure with Hamilton's National Bank. During his two terms, President Jackson destroyed the Second Bank of the United States, and advocated for individual liberty, states' rights, and slavery.

State judge and second term in Congress
Barbour declined to run for re-election in 1824 and turned down an offer from Thomas Jefferson to become the professor of law in the University of Virginia in 1825. Instead, he accepted election by Virginia legislature as a judge of the General Court of Virginia succeeding the late Hugh Holmes. Barbour served for two years as a state judge.
In 1827, Barbour returned to his seat in the House of Representatives as a Jacksonian. For the first two years of his second stint in the House, he was Chairman of the Judiciary Committee.
In 1829, Barbour became one of the first Jeffersonian Old Republicans to join the Jacksonian Democrats in opposition to the National Bank. He fought to expose the Second Bank of the United States as a private enterprise, endowed with federal funds while only masquerading as a government institution. Although his anti-Bank campaign did not take hold, Barbour's advocacy for state sovereignty, the removal of the National Bank, and the legalization of slavery in territories such as Missouri earned him favor with President Andrew Jackson.
Also in 1829, while continuing to serve as a U.S. Representative, Barbour became a delegate for the Virginia Constitutional Convention of 1829-1830, and the Convention elected him their second president, after the Convention's first president, James Monroe, had to withdraw due to failing health on December 8. As such, Barbour (with distinguished Virginians such as Monroe, James Madison, and John Marshall) helped restrict discussion of slavery's role in the Commonwealth, and limited the rancorous assembly's debates to issues of representation and suffrage (Virginia had been one of the last states to allow only landowners to vote, and slaveholders had disproportionate power). The resulting constitution was adopted in 1830, despite the votes against it from the state's northern and western areas (much of which ultimately split off to become West Virginia during the American Civil War decades after Barbour's death).

Federal district judge and the 1832 campaign season
Barbour also turned down offers of a chancellorship and the post of U.S. Attorney General before finally resigning his congressional seat October 15, 1830 to accept President Jackson's appointment to become judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. Jackson appointed Barbour by recess appointment on October 8, 1830, to a seat on that court vacated by George Hay. Barbour was formally nominated on December 14, 1830, and two days later he was confirmed by the Senate, and received his commission, serving thereafter until March 17, 1836.In 1832, Democrats unhappy with the selection of Martin Van Buren as their party's vice-presidential nominee held a convention in Virginia, at which they nominated Jackson for president and Barbour for vice president. Barbour eventually withdrew his candidacy and endorsed the Jackson-Van Buren ticket, but the alternative Democratic ticket still appeared on the ballot in several Southern states.
Barbour also refused nominations for judge of the court of appeals, for Governor, and for United States Senator.
Although it was unknown whether Barbour could gain favor with voters outside Virginia, Barbour's campaigning on the Democratic ticket illuminated the similarities in parties and gained favor for the Democratic party.  Voters reasoned that, if a man like Barbour, loyal to his party even when his fellow Virginians chose different principles, could switch to the Democratic party, then the Democrats must hold the same values. By joining the Jacksonian Democratic Party, Barbour entrenched Old Republican principles into a new political dynasty, therefore continuing the legacy of Jefferson and further validating the strength of Democratic principles. This was similar to Lincoln's argument that secession should not occur due to the state of perpetual Union that had existed since the first draft of the Constitution before the term "Union" was first used to describe the North during the Civil War. Therefore, Barbour's resignation allowed the second party system to coalesce by unifying the Democratic Party on the ideologies of war in the American system through the national reform retrenchment and economy, and a restoration of republican constitutionalism.

United States Supreme Court
Appointment
In 1835, Chief Justice Marshall's death and Justice Gabriel Duvall's resignation created two vacancies on the Supreme Court. President Jackson, at the end of his second Presidential term, nominated Judge Barbour to fill Duvall's vacancy. Nationalists feared Jackson's appointment of Barbour because Barbour's anti-administration Congressional legacy and Democratic beliefs suggested that he would attempt to undermine the federal supremacy achieved during the Marshall Court. This fear made the finalization of the decision an arduous process with two attempts at delaying the Senate's decision. On March 15, 1836, the Senate approved the appointment of Barbour by a vote of 30-11.

Tenure
Barbour served on the Supreme Court for five years. He heard 155 cases, for which he authored one major opinion and two dissents. His passion for states' rights, strict constructionism, and limits on federal power helped shape the legacy of the Taney Court.
During Barbour's first term (1837), he heard three cases that mitigated Marshall's accomplishment of judicial nationalism, Briscoe v. Bank of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, and New York v. Miln. Justice Barbour authored the majority opinion in New York v. Miln. In 1824, the state of New York passed a law that required all ship masters to provide a report delineating personal information of passengers in order to prevent smuggling and immigration of the impoverished for whom the state could not provide. Ship master Miln refused to comply with the law and was therefore jailed and fined. The case went to the Court on the issue of whether the statute violated the Commerce Clause, U.S. Const., Art. 1, § 8. Barbour held that the New York statute did not violate the Commerce Clause, because it was an exercise of the power granted to the state to "regulate their internal police and to take care that no detriment comes to the commonwealth." People were "not the subject of commerce, and not being imported goods, cannot fall within a train of reasoning founded upon the construction of a power given to Congress to regulate commerce and the prohibition to the states from imposing a duty on imported goods."  Justice Barbour argued that the statue was valid as an act of police power to protect the health and welfare of the community. Because it is within the powers of the state to have jurisdiction over its people and things within its territorial boundaries, then "the authority of a state is complete, unqualified, and exclusive."Justice Barbour's holding in Miln was supported by Taney's opinion in Charles River Bridge that the people have rights and it is the duty of both the state and the nation to preserve those rights in order to ensure the happiness and welfare of every citizen. Miln helped Barbour develop a states' rights constitutional vision for the Supreme Court, by narrowing the scope of federal commerce power while expanding state policing power. For both Briscoe v. Bank of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, Barbour voted with the majority, simultaneously gaining more power for states and weakening Marshall Court nationalism.
While Barbour did not spend enough time on the court to amass a large body of judicial opinions, he authored dissents in Kendall v. United States ex rel. Stokes (1838) and Holmes v. Jennison (1840). These two dissents sought to diminish federal authority by supporting Jacksonian political aspirations and opposing restrictions to state sovereignty. Kendall dealt with judicial supervision of executive acts. In 1835, President Jackson appointed Amos Kendall the Postmaster General for the United States. A firm, Stockton and Stokes, had had a contract with the previous Postmaster General, and demanded payment of outstanding debts thereunder, which Kendall declined, in favor of the debt-ridden U.S. Postal Service's other creditors.
The Court viewed Kendall as a proceeding against an Executive Branch official who acted within the scope of his powers. The Court dealt with the issues of whether it had jurisdiction to hear the case under Section 25 of the Judiciary Act of 1789 and whether it had the power to issue a writ of mandamus under Section 13 of the Judiciary Act of 1789 to an official of the Executive Branch. The majority held that the Supreme Court could issue a writ of mandamus to "compel the Postmaster General to perform any ministerial duty devolved on him by law." This issue and holding is similar to that in Marbury v. Madison (1803), which also involved writs of mandamus to an executive officer and held that the Supremacy Clause in Article VI and the notion of popular sovereignty granted the Court jurisdiction over state court cases and the power of judicial review to make legitimate and final rulings on constitutional questions.
Justices Taney and Catron concurred with Barbour's opinion that it was never within the scope of judicial power to control executive actions. Although Barbour believed that "Congress has the constitutional power to give to the federal judiciary …authority to issue the writ of mandamus," Barbour did not believe that the lower court had the "power to issue the writ in question". Even though the Postmaster General was subject to direction and control of the President with respect of the duties imposed by law, when the law is 'ministerial,' Congress can limit and regulate the executive officials. Because Congress created the executive office, then Congress could monitor executive decisions, but the President is not controlled by the federal courts. While the majority opinion served to further define separation of powers by holding acts of the executive branch as subject to the rulings of the Supreme Court, Barbour's dissenting opinion sought to discourage judicial supervision of executive acts by applying President Jackson's departmental theory, the notion that the executive branch has the right to interpret the Constitution for itself. Barbour's opinion in Kendall demonstrated his loyalty to President Jackson's political agenda.
Barbour made his most powerful argument in favor of states' rights in Holmes v. Jennison (1840), which focused on the extradition of a fugitive from Vermont to Canada. In 1838, George Holmes, a resident of Quebec, was convicted of murdering Louis Paschal Achille Tache in Canada. Holmes escaped to the United States where he was detained under issue of warrant in Vermont. Silas H. Jennison, the governor of Vermont, issued the warrant stating that Holmes, being a citizen of the lower province of Canada, would be arrested and returned to suffer prosecution according to the Canadian justice system, even though the United States had no extradition treaty with Canada. Because the Vermont Supreme Court refused to issue a writ of habeas corpus, Holmes petitioned to the Supreme Court on grounds that he was unlawfully imprisoned and deprived of his personal liberties.
The case became a contentious debate further polarizing the Court between nationalists and states' rights Justices. Holmes focused on whether the Court had the authority to review the case based on Section 25 of the Judiciary Act of 1789 and whether the governor's warrant violated the Extradition Clause of Article IV, section 2 of the Constitution, which gave the federal government power to surrender a fugitive to a foreign government. Chief Justice Taney believed that the case fell within the Court's jurisdiction and that the federal government had the exclusive power to engage in foreign relations and so believed that the governor had violated the Extradition Clause.
However, as the Court divided 4-4 over the issue of jurisdiction, the Court dismissed the petition.  The Vermont Supreme Court subsequently ordered Holmes released in light of the fact that five of the eight Justices expressed the opinion that the governor had violated the Extradition Clause, an expression of the principle that the Constitution gives state officers no power to take independent actions concerned with foreign governments. Barbour was one of the four Justices who disagreed with the Chief Justice. Barbour believed that, because "there is no treaty on the subject of surrendering fugitives," between Vermont and Canada, then the returning of fugitives to Canada did not violate a power granted to the federal government by the Constitution, and therefore the "authority, exercised by the Governor of Vermont, is not repugnant to the power of making treaties in its dormant state, because, in the language of the Chief Justice before cited, it is not the mere existence of the power but its exercise which is incompatible with the exercise of the same power by the states." Barbour opined that, because the Constitution did not explicitly define the affairs of states with foreign countries, Governor Jennison was completely within his rights to order the extradition.
Barbour's opinion in Holmes accorded with his opinion in New York v. Miln that the state has the duty to maintain the welfare of its people. Holmes v. Jennison provides an example of Barbour's strict reading of the Constitution, which allowed him to read a more pronounced states' rights view into the text.

Death and legacy
Barbour died of a coronary thrombosis on February 25, 1841, while asleep in his bed, and partway through the arguments of John Quincy Adams, who sought freedom for African captives in the Amistad Case. Justice Story (although opposing slavery and personally more nationalist than Barbour) eulogized Barbour as earning the respect of his colleagues by his commitment to personal values, persistence in fighting for his beliefs, and legal acumen.Barbour owned fifty-four slaves at the time of the 1840 census.An Episcopalian throughout his life, Philip Pendleton Barbour was buried in the Congressional Cemetery, Washington, D.C. Barbour's long-time friend and fellow Virginian, Peter V. Daniel, succeeded him on the U.S. Supreme Court, and continued Barbour's legacy of maintaining Jacksonian principles, states' rights, and strict constructionist reading of the Constitution.Locations named after him include Barbour County, West Virginia, Philippi, West Virginia and its Philip Barbour High School.
Barbour's tenure on the Court demonstrated his loyalty to President Jackson's national vision while applying a narrowed reading of state's rights into the Constitution. Barbour's decisions in major Court cases created an enduring Jacksonian legacy on the Taney Court. Barbour's furtherance of Jacksonian principles of departmental theory in his Kendall dissent, his states' rights advocacy in his majority opinion in New York v. Miln, and textualist reading of the Constitution in order to distinguish state from Congressional power in his dissent in Holmes, all served in this regard.
Barbour's opinions began to unravel the work of Marshall's Court, and set a precedent for future cases as the country became more polarized. Barbour's arguments for the authority of the President to interpret the Constitution in Kendall, and those in defense of the states' police power in Cohens v. Virginia, allowed Chief Justice Taney to rule that slaves were not citizens in Dred Scott v. Sanford (1857). Ironically, they were also used by President Abraham Lincoln to issue a suspension of habeas corpus in 1861.

See also
Virginia Constitutional Convention of 1829-1830
List of justices of the Supreme Court of the United States
Passage 2:
Obata Toramori
Obata Toramori (小畠虎盛, 1491 – July 14, 1561) was Japanese samurai warrior of the Sengoku Period. He is known as one of the "Twenty-Four Generals of Takeda Shingen" 
He also recorded as having been wounded 41 times in 36 encounters. 
He was the father of Obata Masamori.

See also
Isao Obata
Passage 3:
Arthur Beauchamp
Arthur Beauchamp (1827 – 28 April 1910) was a Member of Parliament from New Zealand. He is remembered as the father of Harold Beauchamp, who rose to fame as chairman of the Bank of New Zealand and was the father of writer Katherine Mansfield.

Biography
Beauchamp came to Nelson from Australia on the Lalla Rookh, arriving on 23 February 1861.He lived much of his life in a number of locations around the top of the South Island, also Whanganui when Harold was 11 for seven years and then to the capital (Wellington). Then south to Christchurch and finally Picton and the Sounds. He had business failures and was bankrupted twice, in 1879 and 1884. He married Mary Stanley on the Victorian goldfields in 1854; Arthur and Mary lived in 18 locations over half a century, and are buried in Picton. Six of their ten children born between 1855 and 1893 died, including the first two sons born before Harold.Beauchamp represented the Picton electorate from 1866 to 1867, when he resigned.  He had the energy and sociability required for politics, but not the private income then required to be a parliamentarian. He supported the working man and the subdivision of big estates, opposed the confiscation of Māori land and was later recognised as a founding Liberal, the party that Harold supported and was a "fixer" for. Yska calls their life an extended chronicle of rootlessness, business failure and almost ceaseless family tragedy and Harold called his father a rolling stone by instinct. Arthur also served on the council of Marlborough Province and is best-remembered for a 10-hour speech to that body when an attempt was made to relocate the capital from Picton to Blenheim.In 1866 he attempted to sue the Speaker of the House, David Monro. At the time the extent of privilege held by Members of Parliament was unclear; a select committee ruled that the case could proceed, but with a stay until after the parliamentary session.

See also
Yska, Redmer (2017). A Strange Beautiful Excitement: Katherine Mansfield's Wellington 1888-1903. Dunedin: Otago University Press. pp. 91–99. ISBN 978-0-947522-54-4.
Passage 4:
James Barbour (singer)
James Barbour (born April 25, 1966) is an American singer and theatre actor who played the title role in the Broadway production of The Phantom of the Opera from February 2015 until December 2017. Among his other credits are the Beast in Beauty and the Beast and Sydney Carton in A Tale of Two Cities, for which he was nominated for a Drama Desk Award.
In 2008, Barbour pleaded guilty to two counts of endangering the welfare of a child, and he admitted to engaging in sexual activities with a 15-year-old on more than one occasion.

Early life and education
Barbour was born April 25, 1966, in Cherry Hill, New Jersey. He graduated from Hofstra University, where he majored in English and Theatre with a minor in Philosophy and Physics.

Career
Barbour made his Broadway debut in 1993, in the production of Cyrano: The Musical. He also played Billy Bigelow in Carousel in 1994 and the Beast in Beauty and the Beast in 1998. He was nominated for a Drama League Award in the Outstanding Actor In A Musical category for his role as Edward Rochester in Jane Eyre. He played Leon Czolgosz in Assassins. He also appeared in the Broadway production of Urinetown, and in the national tours of The Secret Garden and Camelot. He also co-founded Laughing Dog Entertainment with the theatre director Steve Binder.He played Lancelot in the 2005 Hollywood Bowl production of Camelot. In late 2007, he performed the role of Sydney Carton in a pre-Broadway musical adaptation of Charles Dickens' A Tale of Two Cities at the Asolo Repertory Theatre in Sarasota, Florida. In 2008, Barbour reprised his role in the Broadway production of A Tale of Two Cities, which closed after 60 performances. In the New York Times, critic Ben Brantley wrote that he disliked both the production and Barbour's performance in it. Barbour was nominated for the Drama League, Drama Desk, and Outer Critics Circle Awards in the Best Actor in a Musical category for his role in A Tale of Two Cities.In 2011, it was announced that he would play the supporting role of Jack Favel in the Broadway musical adaptation of Rebecca. The production was plagued with legal and financial problems, and the production has been indefinitely postponed after multiple delays. Barbour then played the title role in the Broadway production of The Phantom of the Opera for nearly three years, from February 2015 until December 2017.He launched a holiday concert series at New York's Sardi's Restaurant in 2008. Each performance featured a guest performer, including Brandi Burkhardt, Natalie Toro, Deborah Gibson, Marla Schaffel, Marc Kudisch, and Kevin Earley. He repeated the holidays concerts in 2009 in both New York and Los Angeles. In 2010, he expanded these concerts to six cities. He followed this with a second Sardi's concert series, "Love Songs", featuring numerous Broadway classics. The annual holiday concert series has since moved to Birdland, a Manhattan jazz club.In March 2017, Barbour's likeness was immortalized in a caricature portrait on the wall at Sardi's. The same year, he finished writing The Ghosts of the Majestic, a solo show about John Raitt, Robert Goulet, and Ezio Pinza, three notable actors that performed at the Majestic Theatre.

Personal life
Barbour is married to fellow performer Dana Stackpole, with whom he has two daughters.He has been an Artist Committee Board member of The Actors Fund of America for since 2000 during which time he has performed many charitable fundraisers in support of the Fund and Broadway Cares/ Equity Fights AIDS. In 2014, he gave a fundraising performance for Scientology. He has given benefit concerts for his alma mater, Hofstra University.

Arrest
In April 2006, Barbour was arrested and charged with five counts of sexual abuse and sodomy, after a woman accused him of committing statutory rape against her in 2001, when she was 15 years old. In December 2006 he was indicted by a grand jury in New York for said crime.In January 2008, Barbour pleaded guilty to two misdemeanor counts of endangering the welfare of a minor in exchange for a lesser sentence in jail and three years' probation. Also, in accordance with his plea bargain, Barbour made a public allocution to these misdemeanors. He served his sentence at Rikers Island, which lasted for 36 days beginning on February 29, 2008.

Broadway appearances
Cyrano: The Musical (1993)
Carousel (1994)
Beauty and the Beast (1998–1999)
Jane Eyre (2000)
Urinetown (2001)
Assassins (2004 & 2012)
A Tale of Two Cities (2008)
The Phantom of the Opera (2015-2017)

Filmography
Beauty and the Beast: A Concert on Ice (1996) (TV)
The Real Adventures of Jonny Quest (1996) (TV)
Cyrano: The Musical (1997) (TV)
Just Shoot Me! (1997) (TV)
Houdini (1998)
Sex and the City (1999) (TV)
Twinkle Toes (1999)
The District (2000) (TV)
That's Life (2001) (TV)
Eight Crazy Nights (2002)
Ed (2003) (TV)
Alchemy (2005)

Discography
Bring Me Giants (2010)
A Gift of Christmas (2009)
A Tale of Two Cities, The Musical: International Studio Cast Recording (2008)
Broadway in Concert (with Hershey Felder) (2007)
Dracula: The Musical Concept Recording
Jane Eyre – Original Cast Recording
Assassins – Broadway Cast Recording
Love Songs
The Gift

Awards
2001 Drama League Award – Edward Rochester, Jane Eyre ~ The Musical (WIN)
2006/7 LA Weekly Garland Award – Back From Broadway (WIN)
2007 Sarasota Magazine Award for Best Actor in a Musical – Sydney Carton, A Tale of Two Cities (WIN – Tie)
2008-2009 BroadwayWorld Fan Choice Award for Best Actor in a Musical – Sydney Carton, A Tale of Two Cities (Finalist /Runner-Up )
2009 Outer Critics Circle Award for Best Actor in a Musical – Sydney Carton, A Tale of Two Cities (Nomination)
2009 Drama Desk Award for Best Actor in a Musical – Sydney Carton, A Tale of Two Cities (Nomination)
Passage 5:
Ross Barbour (footballer)
Ross Barbour (born 1 February 1993) is a Scottish semi-professional footballer who plays for Darvel in the West of Scotland League Premier Division.

Playing career
Kilmarnock
A member of Kilmarnock's under 19 squad, Barbour was promoted to the first team on 17 December 2011, where he was an unused substitute in their match against Dundee United. He went on to make his debut aged 19, on 7 April 2012 as a second-half substitute in a 6–0 defeat to champions Celtic. On 22 May 2014, Barbour signed a new two-year contract with the club.

Kirkintilloch Rob Roy
On 25 March 2016, Barbour signed for Junior club Kirkintilloch Rob Roy on a short-term contract after he was released by Kilmarnock.

Stranraer
Barbour signed for Stranraer in July 2016. After only one month at Stranraer, Barbour left the club, citing differences with Manager Brian Reid.

Troon
Barbour signed for Troon on 24 August 2016. after leaving Stranraer.

Linlithgow Rose
Upon the expiry of his contract at Troon, Barbour joined East of Scotland side Linlithgow Rose in July 2018, where he revelled in a previously unfamiliar midfield role. After the departure of Manager Mark Bradley, Barbour requested a move back to his native West Coast.

Troon return
On 24 October 2019. Barbour re-signed for Troon.

Career statistics
As of 30 August 2016
Passage 6:
Antwain Barbour
Antwain La'Mar Barbour (born June 27, 1982) is an American former professional basketball player who last played for Hoops Club of the Lebanese Basketball League.
Kentucky High School Sweet 16 State Champion 2000 (Elizabethtown).
MVP Kentucky High School State Tournament 2000.

Career
After playing for Kentucky Wildcats at NCAA, Barbour joined Kentucky Colonels of ABA league in 2004.
Next season he played in the Continental Basketball Association with Yakima Sun Kings and on 2006 he arrives to Spain for finishing the 2005–06 LEB season with UB La Palma. He only played four games, but it was sufficient for signing for Tenerife Rural.
On the team of the island of Tenerife, Barbour played during two seasons and a half becoming one of the most spectacular players of the LEB League. He has got the scoring record at this league, with 50 points against CB Lucentum Alicante.After two seasons reaching the promotion playoffs to Liga ACB and a half of another one, he leaves Tenerife for signing for Erdemir SK of the Turkish Basketball League. In this first season in Turkey, he becomes runner-up of the Turkish Cup Basketball and finishes the 2008–09 season saving the spot in the TBL. When he arrived, the team was in the 15th position.On 2009, he returns to Spain to play at Lagun Aro GBC, team of the Liga ACB, the top Spanish basketball league. One year later, Barbour comes back to Zonguldak for playing again at Erdemir SK.
For the 2011–12 season, Antwain Barbour signed with KK Cibona.On July 3, 2013, Barbour signed with Mersin BB. After a stint in Poland he came back with Mersin BB on December 10, 2014.
Passage 7:
Cleomenes II
Cleomenes II (Greek: Κλεομένης; died 309 BC) was king of Sparta from 370 to 309 BC. He was the second son of Cleombrotus I, and grandfather of Areus I, who succeeded him. Although he reigned for more than 60 years, his life is completely unknown, apart from a victory at the Pythian Games in 336 BC. Several theories have been suggested by modern historians to explain such inactivity, but none has gained consensus.

Life and reign
Cleomenes was the second son of king Cleombrotus I (r. 380–371), who belonged to the Agiad dynasty, one of the two royal families of Sparta (the other being the Eurypontids). Cleombrotus died fighting Thebes at the famous Battle of Leuctra in 371. His eldest son Agesipolis II succeeded him, but he died soon after in 370. Cleomenes' reign was instead exceptionally long, lasting 60 years and 10 months according to Diodorus of Sicily, a historian of the 1st century BC. In a second statement, Diodorus nevertheless tells that Cleomenes II reigned 34 years, but he confused him with his namesake Cleomenes I (r. 524–490).

Despite the outstanding length of his reign, very little can be said about Cleomenes. He has been described by modern historians as a "nonentity". Perhaps that the apparent weakness of Cleomenes inspired the negative opinion of the hereditary kingship at Sparta expressed by Aristotle in his Politics (written between 336 and 322). However, Cleomenes may have focused on internal politics within Sparta, because military duties were apparently given to the Eurypontid Agesilaus II (r. 400–c.360), Archidamus III (r. 360–338), and Agis III (r. 338–331). As the Spartans notably kept their policies secret from foreign eyes, it would explain the silence of ancient sources on Cleomenes. Another explanation is that his duties were assumed by his elder son Acrotatus, described as a military leader by Diodorus, who mentions him in the aftermath of the Battle of Megalopolis in 331, and again in 315.Cleomenes' only known deed was his chariot race victory at the Pythian Games in Delphi in 336. In the following autumn, he gave the small sum of 510 drachmas for the reconstruction of the Temple of Apollo at Delphi, which had been destroyed by an earthquake in 373. Cleomenes might have made this gift as a pretext to go to Delphi and engage in informal diplomacy with other Greek states, possibly to discuss the consequences of the recent assassination of the Macedonian king Philip II.One short witticism of Cleomenes regarding cockfighting is preserved in the Moralia, written by the philosopher Plutarch in the early 2nd century AD:
Somebody promised to give to Cleomenes cocks that would die fighting, but he retorted, "No, don't, but give me those that kill fighting."
As Acrotatus died before Cleomenes, the latter's grandson Areus I succeeded him while still very young, so Cleomenes' second son Cleonymus acted as regent until Areus' majority. Some modern scholars also give Cleomenes a daughter named Archidamia, who played an important role during Pyrrhus' invasion of the Peloponnese, but the age difference makes it unlikely.
Passage 8:
Roy Barbour
Roy Hilton Barbour (born 2 June 1935) is a Rhodesian former field hockey player. He competed in the men's tournament at the 1964 Summer Olympics.
Passage 9:
Sextus Barbour
Dr. Sextus Barbour (July 26, 1813 – December 20, 1848) was a prominent American physician and planter. As the son of Philip P. Barbour (May 25, 1783 – February 25, 1841), U.S. Congressman from Virginia and Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court, Barbour was a scion of the Barbour political family.

Early life and education
Barbour was born on July 26, 1813, in Orange County, Virginia. He was the sixth child of Philip P. Barbour and his wife Frances Todd Johnson.Barbour was a matriculant at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine in 1834.

Writings
Sometime between 1839 and '43, Barbour wrote "Directions for Writing" which is widely cited in literature on writing and grammar:In notes in the third person, the address, and date, are to be placed, on the right side just below the last line. Both letters, and notes, are to be addressed, to the persons for whom they are intended, on the left side, of the lower part of the paper. The place of abode of the person to whom sent, to be first. This is the case when they are in the third person. The letter, or note should never be carried so, near the bottom, as not to have room for the usual conclusion, and signature or to crunch it. Postscripts should if possible be avoided, and, on no account should civilities be postponed to this part. All letters should be enveloped but such as are sent by the post. Nothing should be written when [?] the inside of the envelope; not must any address, be put on the enclosed letter. A half sheet to be used for the envelope.
A hiring agreement in 1846 between Barbour and his eldest brother Edmund Pendleton Barbour serves as a historically significant source for the safety of, hiring of, and caring for slaves. The agreement did not list a price for a slave's services but included the standard food and clothing clause along with an additional clause stating that "the boy Edwin not be allowed to cross the Libertyville millpond or the watercourse when it is high."

Death
Both Barbour and his brother Thomas Barbour, also a physician, died of cholera during the 1848-49 St. Louis cholera epidemic. The epidemic killed 4,500 people, one-tenth of the population of St. Louis. Barbour died on December 20, 1848, and his brother Thomas died the following year in June 1849.
Passage 10:
John Templeton (botanist)
John Templeton (1766–1825) was a pioneering Irish naturalist, sometimes referred to as the "Father of Irish Botany". He was a leading figure in Belfast's late eighteenth century enlightenment, initially supported the  United Irishmen, and figured prominently in the town's scientific and literary societies.

Family
Templeton was born in Belfast in 1766, the son of James Templeton, a prosperous wholesale merchant, and his wife Mary Eleanor, daughter of Benjamin Legg, a sugar refiner. The family resided in a 17th century country house to the south of the town, which been named Orange Grove in honour of William of Orange who had stopped at the house en route to his victory over James II at the Battle of the Boyne in 1690.Until the age of 16 Templeton attended a progressive, co-educational, school favoured by the town's liberal, largely Presbyterian, merchant class. Schoolmaster David Manson sought to exclude "drudgery and fear" by combining classroom instruction with play and experiential learning. Templeton counted among his schoolfellows brother and sister Henry Joy and Mary Ann McCracken, and maintained a warm friendship with them throughout his life.In 1799, Templeton married Katherine Johnson of Seymour Hill. Her family had been touched by the United Irish rebellion the previous year: her brother-in-law, Henry Munro, commander of the United army at the Battle of Ballynahinch, had been hanged. The couple had five children: Ellen, born on 30 September 1800, Robert, born on 12 December 1802, Catherine, born on 19 July 1806, Mary, born on 9 December 1809 and Matilda on 2 November 1813.
The union between the two already prosperous merchant families provided more than ample means enabling Templeton to devote himself passionately to the study of natural history.

United Irishman
Like many of his liberal Presbyterian peers in Belfast, Templeton was sympathetic to the programme and aims of the Society United Irishmen:  Catholic Emancipation and democratic reform of the Irish Parliament. But it was several years before he was persuaded to take the United Irish "test" or pledge. In March 1797 his friend, Mary Ann McCracken, wrote to her brother: [A] certain Botanical friend of ours whose steady and inflexible mind is invulnerable to any other weapon but reason, and only to be moved by conviction has at last turned his attention from the vegetable kingdom to the human species and after pondering the matter for some months, is at last determined to become what he ought to have been months ago.
She hoped his sisters would "soon follow him." Having committed himself to the patriotic union of Catholic, Protestant and Dissenter, Templeton changed the name of the family home from loyalist Orange Grove to Irish "Cranmore" (crann mór, 'big tree').
Templeton was disenchanted by the Rebellion of 1798, and mindful of events in France , repelled by the violence. He nonetheless withdrew from the Belfast Literary Society, of which he had been a founding member in 1801, rather than accept the continued presence of Dr. James MacDonnell. MacDonnell's offence had been to subscribe forty guineas in 1803 for the capture (leading to execution) of the unreformed rebel Thomas Russell who had been their mutual friend. (While unable to "forget the amiable Russell", time, he conceded,  "softened a little my feelings": in 1825, Templeton and MacDonnell met and shook hands).

Garden
The garden at Cranmore spread over 13-acre garden was planted with exotic and native species acquired on botanical excursions, from fellow botanists, nurseries, botanical gardens and abroad: "Received yesterday a large chest of East Indian plants which I examined today." "Box from Mr. Taylor".Other plants arrived, often as seeds from North America, Australia, India, China and other parts of the British Empire  Cranmore also served as a small animal farm.for experimental animal husbandry and a kitchen garden.

Botanist
John Templeton's interest in botany began with this experimental garden laid out according to a suggestion in Rousseau's 'Nouvelle Heloise' and following Rousseau's 'Letters on the Elements of Botany Here he cultivated many tender exotics out of doors (a list provided by Nelson and began botanical studies which lasted throughout his life and corresponded with the most eminent botanists in England Sir William Hooker, William Turner, James Sowerby and, especially Sir Joseph Banks, who had travelled on Captain James Cook's voyages, and in charge of Kew Gardens. Banks tried (unsuccessfully) to tempt him to New Holland (Australia) as a botanist on the Flinders's Expedition with the offer of a large tract of land and a substantial salary. An associate of the Linnean Society, Templeton visited London and saw the botanical work being achieved there. This led to his promotion of the Belfast Botanic Gardens as early as 1809, and to work on a Catalogue of Native Irish Plants, in manuscript form and now in the Royal Irish Academy, which was used as an accurate foundation for later work by succeeding Irish botanists. He also assembled text and executed many beautiful watercolour drawings for a Flora Hibernica, sadly never finished, and kept a detailed journal during the years 1806–1825 (both now in the Ulster Museum, Belfast).[1] Of the 12000 algal specimens in the Ulster Museum Herbarium about 148 are in the Templeton collection and were mostly collected by him, some were collected by others and passed to Templeton. The specimens in the Templeton collection in the Ulster Museum (BEL) have been catalogued. Those noted in 1967 were numbered: F1 – F48. Others were in The Queen's University Belfast. All of Templeton's specimens have now been numbered in the Ulster Museum as follows: F190 – F264; F290 – F314 and F333 – F334.
Templeton was the first finder of Rosa hibernicaThis rose, although collected by Templeton in 1795, remained undescribed until 1803 when he published a short diagnosis in the Transactions of the Dublin Society.

Early additions to the flora of Ireland include Sisymbrium Ligusticum seoticum (1793), Adoxa moschatellina (1820), Orobanche rubra and many other plants. His work on lichens was the basis of this secton of Flora Hiberica by James Townsend Mackay who wrote of him The foregoing account of the Lichens of Ireland would have been still more incomplete, but for the extensive collection of my lamented friend, the late Mr. John Templeton, of Cranmore, near Belfast, which his relict, Mrs. Templeton, most liberally placed at my disposal. I believe that thirty years ago his acquirements in the Natural History of organised beings rivalled that of any individual in Europe : these were by no means limited to diagnostic marks, but extended to all the laws and modifications of the living force. The frequent quotation of his authority in every preceding department of this Flora, is but a brief testimony of his diversified knowledge

Botanical Manuscripts
The MSS. left by Templeton consist of seven volumes. One of these is a small 8vo. half bound ; it is in the Library of the Royal Irish Academy, and contains 280 pp. of lists of Cryptogams, chiefly mosses, with their localities. In this book is inserted a letter from Miss F. M. More, sister of Alexander Goodman More, to Dr. Edward Perceval Wright, Secretary, Royal Irish Academy, dated March, 1897, in which she says—‘*‘ The Manuscript which accompanies this letter was drawn up between 1794 and 1810, by the eminent naturalist, John Templeton, in Belfast. It was lent by his son, Dr. R. Templeton, to my brother, Alex. G. More, when he was preparing the second edition of the ‘ Cybele Hibernica,’ on condition that it should be placed in the Library of the Royal Irish Academy afterwards." The other six volumes are quarto size, and contain 1,090 folios, with descriptions of many of the plants, and careful drawings in pen and pencil and colours of many species. They are now lent to the Belfast Museum. About ten years ago I [Lett]spent a week in examining these volumes, and as their contents have hitherto never been fully described, I would like to give an epitome of my investigation of them.

Vol. 1.—Phanerogams, 186 folios, with 15 coloured figures, and 6 small drawings in the text.
Vol. Il.—Fresh-water Algae, 246 folios, 71 of which are coloured.
Vol.IIl.—Marine Algae, 212 folios, of which 79 are coloured figures. At the end of this volume are 3 folios of Mosses, the pagination of which runs with the rest of this volume, but it is evident they had at some time been misplaced.
Vol. IV Fungi, 112 folios.
Vol. V.—Mosses, 117 folios, of which 20 are coloured, and also 73 small drawings in the text. *Vol. VI.—Mosses and Hepatics. 117 folios are Hepatics, 40 of which are in colours ; 96 folios are Mosses, of which 39 are full-page coloured figures; and in addition there are 3 small coloured drawings in the text.All these drawings were executed by Templeton himself, they are every one most accurately and beautifully drawn; and the colouring is true to nature and artistically finished; those of the mosses and hepatics being particularly good. Templeton is not mentioned in Tate’s ‘‘ Flora Belfastiensis,’ published in 1863, at Belfast. The earliest published reference to his MSS. is in the "* Flora of Ulster," by Dickie, published in 1864, where there is this indefinite allusion—‘* To the friends of the late Mr. Templeton I am indebted for permission to take notes of species recorded in his manuscript." The MS. was most likely the small volume now in the Royal Irish Academy Library. In the introduction to the "*‘ Flora of the North-east of Ireland"’ (1888), there is a brief biographical sketch of Templeton, but no mention of any MS. However, in a ‘‘ Supplement" to the Flora (1894), there is this note— ‘* Templeton, John, four volumes of his ‘ Flora Hibernica’ at present deposited with the Belfast Natural History and Philosophical Society, contain much original matter, which could not be worked out in time for the present paper." This fixes the approximate date of the MSS. being loaned to the Belfast Museum. They were not known to the authors of the ‘‘ Cybele Hibernica’"’ in 1866, while in the second edition (1898) the small volume of the MSS. in R.1.A. Library is described in the Index of Authors under its full title—Catalogue of the Native Plants of Ireland, by John Templeton, A.L.S.

Notable plant finds
Antrim:Northern beech fern Glenaan River, Cushendall 1809: intermediate wintergreen Sixmilewater 1794: heath pearlwort :Muck Island Islandmagee  1804: dwarf willow Slievenanee Mountain 1809: thin-leaf brookweed beside River Lagan in its tidal reaches – gone now 1797: Dovedale moss Cave Hill 1797: Arctic root Slemish Mountain pre 1825: Cornish moneywort  formerly cultivated at Cranmore, Malone Road, Belfast1 pre-1825 J. persisted to 1947: rock whitebeam  basalt cliffs of the Little Deerpark, Glenarm 15 July 1808: yellow meadow rue Portmore Lough 1800:  Moschatel Mountcollyer Deerpark 2 May 1820 , Bearberry  Fair Head pre 1825, Sea Bindweed Bushfoot dunes pre 1825,  Flixweed , 'Among the ruins of Carrickfergus I found Sisymbrium Sophia in plenty' 2 Sept. 1812 – Journal of J. Templeton J4187, Needle Spike-rush Broadwater pre 1825, Dwarf Spurge Lambeg gravel pit 1804, Large-flowered Hemp-nettle, Glenarm  pre 1825
Down:
Field Gentian Slieve Donard 1796: Lesser Twayblade Newtonards Park pre 1825:  Rough poppy 15 July 1797: Six-stamened Waterwort Castlewellan Lake 1808: Great Sundew going to the mountains from Kilkeel 19 August 1808: Hairy Rock-cress Dundrum Castle 1797: Intermediate Wintergree Moneygreer Bog 1797 Cowslip Holywood Warren pre 1825 long gone since: Water-violet Crossgar 7th July 1810 Scots Lovage Bangor Bay 1809, Mountain Everlasting  Newtownards 1793, Frogbit boghole near Portaferry, Parsley fern, Slieve Binnian, Mourne Mountains  19 August 1808, Bog-rosemary Wolf Island Bog 1794,  Marsh Pea Lough Neagh
Fermanagh: Marsh Helleborine

Natural History of Ireland
John Templeton had wide-ranging scientific interests including chemistry as it applied to agriculture and horticulture, meteorology and phenology following Robert Marsham. He published very little aside from monthly reports on natural history and meteorology in the 'Belfast Magazine' commenced in 1808. John Templeton studied birds extensively, collected shells, marine organisms (especially "Zoophytes") and insects, notably garden pest species. He planned a 'Hibernian Fauna' to accompany 'Hibernian Flora'. This was not published, even in part, but A catalogue of the species annulose animals and of rayed ones found in Ireland as selected from the papers of the late J Templeton Esq. of Cranmore with localities, descriptions, and illustrations Mag. Nat. Hist. 9: 233- 240; 301 305; 417–421; 466 -472[2], 1836.  Catalogue of Irish Crustacea, Myriapoda and Arachnoida, selected from the papers of the late John Templeton Esq. Mag. Nat. Hist. 9: 9–14 [3].and 1837 Irish Vertebrate animals selected from the papers of the late. John Templeton Esq Mag. Nat. Hist . 1: (n. s.): 403–413 403 -413 were (collated and edited By Robert Templeton). Much of his work was used by later authors, especially by William Thompson whose 'The Natural History of Ireland' is its essential continuation.

Dublin
Templeton was a regular visitor to the elegant Georgian city of Dublin (by 1816 the journey was completed in one day in a wellington coach with 4 passengers) and he was a Member of the Royal Dublin Society.By his death in 1825 the Society had established a Botanic at Glasnevin "with the following sections:
1 The Linnaean garden, which contains two divisions, - Herbaceous plants, and shrub-fruit; and forest-tree plants.
2. Garden arranged on the system of Jussieu. 3. Garden of Indigenous plants (to Ireland), disposed according to the system of Linnaeus. 4. Kitchen Garden, where six apprentices are constantly employed, who receive a complete knowledge of systematic botany. 5. Medicinal plants. 6. Plants eaten, or rejected, by cattle. 7. Plants used in rural economy. 8. Plants used in dyeing. 9. Rock plants. 10. Aquatic and marsh plants. - For which an artificial marsh has been formed. 11. Cryptogamics. 12. Flower garden, besides extensive hot-houses, and a conservatory for exotics".
Other associations were with Leinster House housing the RDS Museum and Library.
"Second Room. Here the animal kingdom is displayed, arranged in six classes. 1. Mammalia. 2. Aves. 3. Amphibia. 4. Pisces. 5. Insectae. 6. Vermes. Here is a great variety of shells, butterflies and beetles, and of the most beautiful species" and the Leske collection.
The library at Leinster House held 12,000 books and was particularly rich in  works on botany; "amongst which is a very valuable work in four large folio volumes, "Gramitia Austriaca" [Austriacorum Icones et descriptions graminum]; by Nicholas Thomas Host".Templeton was also associated with theFarming Society funded 1800, the 
Kirwanian Society  founded 1812, Marsh's Library, Trinity College Botanic Garden. Four acres supplied with both exotic and indigenous plants,the Trinity Library (80,000 volumes) and Trinity Museum.Also the Museum of the College of Surgeons.

Death and legacy
Never of strong constitution, he was not expected to survive, he was in failing health from 1815 and died in 1825 aged only 60, "leaving a sorrowing wife, youthful family and many friends and townsmen who greatly mourned his death". The Australian leguminous genus Templetonia is named for him.
In 1810 Templeton had supported the veteran United Irishman, William Drennan, in the foundation of the Belfast Academical Institution. With the staff and scholars of the Institution's early Collegiate Department, he then helped form the Belfast Natural History and Philosophical Society (the origin of both the Botanical Gardens and what is now the Ulster Museum).
Although always ready to communicate his own findings, Templeton did not publish much. Robert Lloyd Praeger (1865-1953), editor of the Irish Naturalist and President of the Royal Irish Academy, described him nonetheless as "the most eminent naturalist Ireland has produced".Templeton's son, Robert Templeton (1802-1892), educated at the Belfast Academical Institution (which was eventually to acquire Cranmore House), became an entomologist renowned for his work on Sri Lankan arthropods. Robert's fellow pupil James Emerson Tennent went on to write Ceylon, Physical, Historical and Topographical

Contacts
Thomas Martyn From 1794 supplied Martyn with many remarks on cultivation for Martyn's edition of Miller's Gardener's Dictionary.
George Shaw
James Edward Smith Contributions to English Botany and Flora Britannica
James Lee
Samuel Goodenough
Aylmer Bourke Lambert
James Sowerby
William Curtis
Joseph Banks
Robert Brown.
Lewis Weston Dillwyn's Contributions to British Confervæ (1802–07)
Dawson Turner Contributions to British Fuci (1802), and Muscologia Hibernica (1804).
John Walker
Francis Rawdon-Hastings, 1st Marquess of Hastings
John Foster, 1st Baron Oriel
Jonathan Stokes
Walter Wade

Other
John Templeton maintained a natural history cabinet containing specimens from Calobar, New Holland and The Carolinas as well as is Ireland cabinets. His library included Rees's Cyclopædia and works by Carl Linnaeus, Edward Donovan and William Swainson s:Zoological Illustrationsand he used a John Dollond microscope and lenses. He made a tour of Scotland with Henry MacKinnon. His diaries record the Comet of 1807 and the Great Comet of 1811.

Gallery
|

See also
Late Enlightenment
James Townsend Mackay