Passage 1:
Renaldo Rama
Renaldo Rama (born 27 January 1990) is an Albanian footballer who plays as a forward.

Club career
The central midfielder has previously played for A.O. Kastellas and Olympiacos at youth level and German club TuS Koblenz at senior level, as well as Gramozi Ersekë in Albania.
He made his debut on the professional league level in the 2. Bundesliga for TuS Koblenz on 20 March 2009 when he came on as a substitute in the 83rd minute in a game against FC Hansa Rostock. On 3 February 2009, he signed a contract with TuS Koblenz, but after one year, he resigned and left the team. The next season, Rama signed a contract with KS Apolonia for two years. He managed to play in 29 games with 9 goals. In season 2013–2014, AEK Athens bought him, using his Greek passport (Renaldo Rama finished high school in Greece). He left the club on 3 July 2014.Rama spent the 2014–15 season at Fostiras in the Greek Football League, he made seventeen appearances and scored twice for the Greek club. Rama then left to join Albanian Superliga club Kukësi on 4 August 2015, he signed a one-year contract with the club.

Honours
AEK AthensFootball League 2: 12014(6th Group)
Passage 2:
Ismail Rama
Ismail Rama (born 3 November 1935) is an Albanian shooter who competed at the 1972 Summer Olympic Games in the 50 metre rifle prone, he finished 22nd.
Passage 3:
M. S. Sathyu
Mysore Shrinivas Sathyu (born 6 July 1930) is a film director, stage designer and art director from India. He is best known for his directorial Garm Hava (1973), which was based on the partition of India. He was awarded Padma Shri in 1975.

Early and personal life
Born into a Kannada Brahmin family, Sathyu grew up in Mysore. He pursued his higher education at Mysore and later Bangalore. In 1952, he quit college while working on his Bachelor of Science degree.
Sathyu is married to Shama Zaidi, a north Indian Shia Muslim. They have two daughters.

Career
He freelanced as an animator in 1952–53. After being unemployed for nearly four years, he got his first salaried job as assistant director to filmmaker Chetan Anand.
He worked in theatre as a designer and director, including designing sets and lights for productions of Hindustani Theatre, Okhla Theatre of Habib Tanvir, Kannada Bharati and other groups of Delhi. In films, he has worked as an art director, camera-man, screenwriter, producer and director. His first film. His fas an independent Art director  or Haqeeqat, a film by Chetan Anand, which won him recognition and the 1965 Filmfare Award for Best Art Direction.
His filmography includes over 15 documentaries and 8 feature films in Hindi, Urdu and Kannada.His best known work, Garm Hava (Scorching Winds, 1973), is one of the last cinema productions featuring 1950s Marxist cultural activists including Balraj Sahni and Kaifi Azmi. Garm Hava won several Indian national awards in 1974, including a National Integration Award. It was screened in the competitive section at Cannes and was also the Indian entry at the Oscars. It won the Filmfare award for best screenplay.M. S. Sathyu currently is associated mainly with television and stage. In 2013, Sathyu featured in the popular Google Reunion ad, where he played the role of Yusuf, an elderly Pakistani man who is reunited with his childhood pre-partition friend from India, Baldev (Vishwa Mohan Badola). The commercial went viral on social media.Sathyu is one of the patrons of Indian People's Theatre Association (IPTA).
He directed musical  play Gul E Bakavali written by Sudheer Attavar; represented 8th World Theatre Olympics in year 2018 . He also directed plays like 'Dara Shikoh', Amrita,Bakri, Kuri,Akhri Shama and many more
In 2014, his debut film, Garm Hava was re-released after restoration.

Awards
1965 : Filmfare Best Art Direction Award: Haqeeqat (for black-and-white film category)
1974 : Cannes Film Festival: Golden Palm : Garm Hava: Nominated.
1974 : National Film Award: Nargis Dutt Award for Best Feature Film on National Integration: Garam Hawa
1975 :  Padma Shri
1981-82 : Karnataka State Film Award for First Best Film for "Bara"
1981-82 : Karnataka State Film Award for Best Director for "Bara"
1982 : Filmfare Award for Best Film – Kannada for "Bara"
1982 : Filmfare Award for Best Director – Kannada for "Bara"
1984 : National Film Award: Nargis Dutt Award for Best Feature Film on National Integration: Sookha
1984 : Filmfare Critics Award for Best Movie Hindi : Sookha
1994 : Sangeet Natak Akademi Award: Stagecraft
2014 :Sangeet Natak Akademi Fellowship : Theatre

Production
Theatre plays
Gul E Bakavali musical Play written by Sudheer Attavar
Dara Shikoh written by Danish Iqbal
Mudrarkshas
Aakhri Shama
Rashmon
Bakri ("Kuri" in Kannada)
Girija Ke sapne
Mote Ram Ke Sathyagrah
Emil's Enemies
Amrita :

Films
Feature Films

Ek Tha Chotu Ek Tha Motu
Garm Hawa (Hot Wind) 1973
Chithegu Chinthe 1978 - Screened at 7th IFFI.
Kanneshwara Rama (The Legendary Outlaw)
Kahan Kahan Se Guzar Gaya (1981)
Bara (Famine), based on a short story by U.R. Anantha Murthy (1982)
Sookha Hindi version of the Kannada movie Bara (1983)
Ghalige (Kannada)
Kotta (1999)
Ijjodu ( Kannada) 2009Short films and Documentaries

Irshad
Black Mountain
Ghalib
Islam in India

Television
TV serials

Pratidhwani 1985
Choli Daaman 1987–88
Kayar (Coir) 1992
Antim Raja (The Last Raja of Coorg) 1986Tele-films

Aangan
Ek Hadsa Char Pehlu
ThangamTelevision and YouTube Advertisements

Reunion, an advertisement for Google Search
Passage 4:
Urata Rama
Urata Rama (born 20 December 1986) is a Kosovar sports shooter and physical educator, who belongs to the Jeton Ramaj Shooting Club in Vitina and has participated at the Olympic level since 2003. In 2012, she was one of six athletes nominated by the Olympic Committee of Kosovo, but she was rejected for the 2012 Summer Olympics by the International Olympic Committee, which only accepted judoka Majlinda Kelmendi though as a representative of Albania. Rama, whose cousin Lumturie Rama also shoots competitively, competed at the 2015 European Games in Baku in the ISSF 10 meter air rifle, and went on to compete in the women's 10 metre air rifle event at the 2016 Summer Olympics.
Passage 5:
Ian Barry (director)
Ian Barry is an Australian director of film and TV.

Select credits
Waiting for Lucas (1973) (short)
Stone (1974) (editor only)
The Chain Reaction (1980)
Whose Baby? (1986) (mini-series)
Minnamurra (1989)
Bodysurfer (1989) (mini-series)
Ring of Scorpio (1990) (mini-series)
Crimebroker (1993)
Inferno (1998) (TV movie)
Miss Lettie and Me (2002) (TV movie)
Not Quite Hollywood: The Wild, Untold Story of Ozploitation! (2008) (documentary)
The Doctor Blake Mysteries (2013)
Passage 6:
Kanneshwara Rama
Kanneshwara Rama (Kannada: ಕನ್ನೇಶ್ವರ ರಾಮ; English: The Legendary Outlaw) is a 1977 Kannada-language political film directed by M. S. Sathyu. The film features an ensemble cast including Anant Nag, Shabana Azmi, Amol Palekar, B. V. Karanth and Shimoga Venkatesh. The film is based on the novel Kannayya Rama written by S. K. Nadig. The film is set in the 1920s during which a rebellious youth, Kanneshwara Rama, who opposes the unjust orders given by the village head and becomes outlawed from the village.The film was produced by the Moola Brothers under the production company Sharadha Movie Productions. The film is based on the novel Kannayya Rama written by S. K. Nadig. The screenplay of the film was also written by S. K. Nadig. The cinematography of the film was done by Ishan Arya and Ashok Gunjal, while the editing was handled by S. Chakravarthy. The music for the film was composed by B. V. Karanth, while the lyrics were written by N. Kulkarni. This film features the debut of Shabana Azmi in Kannada cinema. The film is Sathyu's second feature film after the 1973 film Garm Hava.Kanneshwara Rama premiered at the International Film Festival of India. The film was theatrically released on 30 March 1989 and was a critical and box office success, completing a 100-day run in theatres. It was screened in many national and international film festivals, including the Bengaluru International Film Festival in 2017. The film has drawn comparisons to Garm Hava.

Plot
Present day
The film starts with Kanneshwara Rama, a long-sought-after fugitive who has been caught by the police. He is being paraded through the streets of Shimoga before being taken to the state capital for his execution. On the way, Rama sees many people in the crowd who have figured in his life at one point or another and starts thinking about those events.
Flashback
Back in his old days, Rama is a hot-headed peasant who fumes at the slightest attempt of intimidation. He despised meekness and that is one of the reasons for his contempt towards his docile wife. Rama defied the village head, resulting in a midnight scuffle in which he ends up killing the person. He is caught and sent to jail.
In prison, Rama meets Mahatma Gandhi’s followers who are political prisoners. Under cover of a nationalistic disturbance, he escapes from the place and joins a group of bandits. The leader of the group is Junja, who zealously guards his gang's hoard of gold, watched over by Malli, his mistress. Junja gets fond of Rama, something that is resented by some members of the gang, except Chennira who becomes his ally.
Junja is mortally wounded in an encounter with the police and names Rama as his successor. Malli quietly decamps with the hoarded treasure in the dark of night. Rama becomes notorious as an outrageously bold dacoit. He helps the poor, providing a dowry for girls of marriageable age and breaking the hold of feudal landlords in the area. He becomes a hero in the eyes of the people, attaining a status akin to Robinhood.
He raids a landlord's safe and accidentally finds refuge in Malli's house. She is now a high-priced prostitute and they become lovers. However, Rama finds an opportunity to steal her jewels and does not hesitate.
Rama's daring exploits, his growing popularity, and his successes begin to worry the government. The tension with the police reaches its peak when he rescues a group of nationalists from the police, takes the policemen captive, and humiliates the British Captain. He is both amused and impressed by Gandhi's policy of non-violence, but what catches his attention is their building of a cause and the symbolic flag, an idea that started to germinate in his mind.
Some members of Rama's gang are disloyal to him. He out-maneuvers them in their break-away attempt to rob an armed treasury and forgives the culprits, against Chennira's advice. However, Rama begins to wonder whether any group can be loyal to an individual for long. He feels that the guiding principle should be an idea, symbolized by a flag and a base, both of which are necessary. He frees a village under the bondage to a religious order, adopts it, and places his flag on an old fort that guards it. Rama becomes a legend, carving out an independent principality of his own. Rama becomes a legend in his own lifetime. Ballad singers compose songs praising his courage and the police are afraid of him.
The British Government is alarmed. The District Collector sends a large force to capture Rama at any cost. The Police Superintendent first tries to cajole Malli into giving him away but she refuses to do their bidding. He then threatens the people in the village and takes some hostages. The police offensive against Rama is intensified. At an encounter, most of his gang is killed, including the trusted Chennira. Rama runs to his villagers for refuge but they are too scared to help him. Enraged, he sets the village on fire. Even Malli is not able to deter him. The Police Superintendent tries to make Malli help him again. At first, she refuses but when the relatives of the hostages plead with her, she agrees.
Present day
Rama is now alone and helpless. He abandons his weapons at the altar of a temple and visits Malli at night. A trap is set around her house and as soon as Malli sends a signal, the police surround the area. Malli defends her actions by saying that his vindictiveness drove her to it.  He says he had only come to give her his treasures so that they could be given to the villagers as compensation. Malli now regrets her betrayal but it is too late.

Cast
Soundtrack
The music was composed by B. V. Karanth.
Passage 7:
Manuel García Calderón
Manuel García Calderón García Rama (born 28 September 1953) is a Spanish football manager, currently in charge of CD Móstoles B.

Managerial career
Born in Madrid, García Calderón made his managerial debuts with Real Madrid's youth system. In 1996, he was appointed CD Toledo manager in Segunda División, after previous stints at CD Numancia and CD San Fernando; while in charge he only suffered two defeats, and his side finished 9th.
In August 1997, after suffering team relegation with SD Huesca, García Calderón was named Getafe CF manager. He was relieved from his duties in April of the following year, after losing his last three games.
García Calderón subsequently managed Algeciras CF, AD Alcorcón and CD Móstoles, all in Segunda División B. On 28 June 2006 he was appointed at the helm of CD Illescas, being sacked on 7 November of the following year.On 18 June 2008 García Calderón returned to his former club Getafe, being appointed manager of the reserves. He was relieved from his duties on 9 January 2009, after achieving five consecutive defeats.In 2014 García Calderón was named manager of the newly formed CD Móstoles B.
Passage 8:
Valdet Rama
Valdet Skënder Rama (born 20 November 1987) is an Albanian professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for German club Wuppertaler SV. He also holds German citizenship.

Early life
Rama is a Kosovo Albanian and fled to Germany at the age of nine years. There he spent his youth in the Ruhr district and went through the ranks of three local clubs before joining former German champions Rot-Weiss Essen in 2004.

Club career
Early career
Rama made his debut on the professional league level in the 2. Bundesliga for FC Ingolstadt 04 on 17 August 2008 when he started a game against Greuther Fürth. He scored a goal on his debut.

Hannover 96
After Ingolstadt was relegated at the end of the 2008–09 season, his contract became invalid and he was able to join a new club on a free transfer. On 26 May 2009, he announced his move to Bundesliga side Hannover 96 where he signed a three-year contract.

Örebro
In February 2011, he signed for Swedish club Örebro SK. He made a big impact in his first year with the club, scoring eight goals from his position as a winger. During the second season he often found himself benched and his manager criticized his lack of defensive work.  This caused his agent to lash out against the club, claiming that Rama was one of the best players in the league and that he had been humiliated by the managers comments. He also demanded that Örebro sell him during the summer. Rama however ended up staying with the club until the end of the 2012 Allsvenskan season, after which Örebro was relegated.

Valladolid
After the 2012 Allsvenskan season ended, on 31 January 2013 Rama moved Real Valladolid on loan until the end of the 2012–13 La Liga's season. He made his debut on 9 March 2013, in a match against Málaga which finished 1–1 and he came on as a substitute in the 71st minute in place of Daniel Larsson.His first goal with Valladolid came on 20 January 2014 in a match against Athletic Bilbao, where he scored in the last 90th minute and the match finished in the loss 4–2. With this goal, Rama became the first Albanian player ever to score in La Liga and in the entire Spanish football.Rama finished the 2013–14 La Liga season with 26 appearances and 1 goal scored.
His last match in which he played was early on 27 March 2014 against Real Sociedad and only as substitute in the 61st minute. Then he was called up only in one match on 3 May 2014 against Espanyol and did not play any minute.On 11 July 2014, Rama left Valladolid as he interrupted his contract with the club, where the contract was valid until 30 June 2015.

1860 Munich
On 27 August 2014, Rama had started the medical tests with 2. Bundesliga side TSV 1860 Munich. Two days later, the transfer was made official with Rama joining on a two-year contract.He made his competitive debut later on 14 September by starting in the week 5 match against St. Pauli which was won 1–2 away. In the next match he provided an assist to rescue his side a point against FC Ingolstadt. Rama's first score-sheet contributions came on 19 October where he scored his team's only goal in the 4–1 loss at Erzgebirge Aue.He was on the scoresheet also in the DFB-Pokal round 2 tie against SC Freiburg which gave his side the temporary lead as the opponents bounced back to win 5–2, much to 1860 Munich elimination. He finished his first season with Die Löwen by making 28 league appearances, scoring three times.
In the 2015–16 season, Rama declined, scoring only once in 16 league appearances. His season was also marred by injuries. Following the end of the season, Rama's contract was not extended and left as a free agent. He described his spell with the club as "difficult" due to injuries.

Yanbian Funde
Rama transferred to Chinese Super League side Yanbian Funde on a two-year contract in July 2017. He made his debut on 13 August in a 1–1 draw against Changchun Yatai

Kukësi
On 31 January 2019, after more than a year without a club, Rama joined Albanian Superliga side Kukësi on a six-month contract with an option to renew for one more year; his monthly wage was reportedly €9,000, excluding bonuses.He won his first trophy with Kukësi on 2 June following the 2–1 win at Elbasan Arena against Tirana in the Albanian Cup final. He participated in the build up that led to both two goals of his side, earning him praise from the media.

SV Meppen
On 20 August 2019, SV Meppen announced the signing of Rama on a two-year deal with an option for a third year. Having made three substitute appearances in the 2021–22 season he agreed the termination of his contract in January 2022.

Wuppertaler SV
On 3 January 2022, Rama joined Wuppertaler SV in the fourth-tier Regionalliga West.

International career
As soon as Rama moved to Spain to play in La Liga he declared that he was eager to play for Albania and was contacted by the Albanian Football Association in order to plan a call-up for the next matches. On 25 March 2013 he received the Albanian citizenship and became fully eligible to play for Albania.He made his international debut on 26 March 2013 in a friendly match against Lithuania finished in the victory 4–1, where Rama played as a starter and substituted off in the 64th minute with Armando Vajushi. On 7 June 2013, he scored first goal against Norway finished in the 1–1 draw. He finished first year (2013) with Albania making a total of 8 appearances, all as a starter, and substituted off 3 times. In those 8 appearances he also scored 3 goals.
In August 2016, Rama opted to play for newly recognized Kosovo national team. However, in an interview in September 2017, Rama didn't exclude the opportunity to play for Albania once again.

Career statistics
Club
As of 3 January 2022

International
As of match played 13 June 2015As of match played 13 June 2015
Scores and results list Albania's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Rama goal.
Passage 9:
Rafet Rama
Rafet Rama (born 5 December 1971) is a Kosovan politician and lawmaker who ran for the 2016 presidential election, in which he was defeated by Hashim Thaçi.  He is a member of the Democratic Party of Kosovo.
Passage 10:
Milaim Rama
Milaim Rama (born 29 February 1976) is a former professional footballer who spent most of his career playing for Thun. In addition to Thun, he also played for FC Augsburg, Schaffhausen. Born in SFR Yugoslavia, he represented the Switzerland national team at international level.

International career
Rama had the right to represent two countries at the international level, such as Albania or Switzerland, with the latter he made his debut on 20 August 2003 in a friendly match against France after coming on as a substitute at 46th minute in place of Stéphane Chapuisat, becoming the first Kosovan to debut with Switzerland. His last international match was on 21 June 2004 in UEFA Euro 2004 group stage again against France.

Personal life
Rama was born in Viti, SFR Yugoslavia to Kosovo Albanian parents from the village Zhiti near Viti. At the age of 17, he immigrated to Switzerland and in 2003 received the Swiss passport. Rama is the father of Kosovo international Alketa Rama.