Passage 1:
Sula Island
Sula Island is an island located in the Albay province of the Philippines.

See also
List of islands of the Philippines
Passage 2:
Henry Island (Nova Scotia)
Henry Island is an island located in the Gulf of Saint Lawrence in the Northumberland Strait of Nova Scotia, Canada, just east of Prince Edward Island and southwest of Port Hood Island.

Geography
Consisting of 150 acres (0.61 km2) of mostly forested tract, the 2½ mile long by 1-mile (1.6 km) wide island has up to 100-foot (30 m) cliffs along the west shore, and beaches of shallow shoals along the east shore.  The water along the west shore reaches depths of up to 80 feet (24 m).  There are no year-round residents.  Privately owned, the family inhabits the island in the summer.

History
Early nautical charts refer to the island as Iles aux Jestico or Juste-au-Corps, the previous county name of the current-day Inverness County, Nova Scotia.  There is some debate over the origin of the current name, Henry.  One theory has it that the island was named for Henry Hood, son of Admiral Samuel Hood, commander-in-chief of the Royal Navy of North America in the late 18th century.  Others think it may have been named for Prince William Henry, the uncle of Queen Victoria.
The first person known to have settled the island was James Campbell during the 18th century.  By this time an area of great maritime activity, a lighthouse existed on the summit as early as 1854.  During the period of the Canadian–American Reciprocity Treaty which was in effect from 1854 to 1866, fishermen set up temporary camps each summer on Henry Island.  Soon after the treaty expired the area was overcome by economic depression.  Nearly 30 years later, the original lighthouse was replaced with the currently standing 53-foot (16 m) red and white lighthouse in 1902 under the supervision of foreman Jim MacDonnell of Margaree Harbor, Nova Scotia for a total cost of $3,489.  The current lighthouse remains the property of the Canadian Coast Guard. An adjacent house had also been constructed in 1901.  This new lighthouse had been a campaign promise of Parliament member Angus MacLennan, M.D. The first three lighthouse keepers were relatives and descendants of MacLennan: John MacLennan from 1901, Daniel MacLennan, starting in 1907, and Charles MacLennan, the father of a local shopkeeper, Sadie Murphy.  The last known keeper before the lighthouse was automated was Sterling Morrison, who became keeper in 1961 for a very brief period.  By 1992, the adjacent house had not been lived in for 40 years and had been vandalized, and a nearby shed destroyed.  The island was purchased by William F. Baker, who undertook the restoration of the home back to its original state.

Transportation
Henry Island is accessible for day tours around the periphery and walking tours to the lighthouse via boat through Port Hood Island Views Boat Tours.
Passage 3:
Ingmarsö
Ingmarsö is an island located in the Stockholm archipelago in Sweden.
Passage 4:
Fairbank Island (Michigan)
Fairbank Island is an island located in Chippewa County, Michigan, United States.
Passage 5:
Jeløya
Jeløya is an island located in the municipality of Moss in Østfold County, Norway.

History
Jeløya was actually a peninsula in the Oslofjord, but was divided from the mainland in 1855 by the Moss canal (Mossekanalen)  a 20-meter broad canal that was built through the low isthmus. The Canal Bridge (Kanalbrua) is the link between Jeløya and the mainland at Moss. This was at first a low, sliding bridge, and since 1957 a simple-leaf Bascule bridge, but dating from the early 1990s has been locked and unable to open. Part of the city of Moss lies on the south-eastern part of Jeløya.
At 19 km2, Jeløya is the largest island in the Oslofjord. Geologically, Jeløya is largely made up of a young lava rock-type from the Permian period. Other islands in the Oslofjord formed during that same time period include Revlingen, Eldøya, Missingene and the Søsterøyene. Ringerike sandstone is found in some parts of Jeløya, and fossil cephalaspids have been found. The largest Norwegian moraine from the Ice Age crosses Jeløya, goes to the east of Moss and Rygge and continues through Sweden to Finland.Until the 1990s, two of Moss' largest industrial zones were on the southern part of Jeløya - Moss Glassverk  and Moss Verft. Moss Glassverk produced glass containers from 1898 until 1999. Moss Verft was a shipyard formed in 1870 which was active in shipbuilding until 1987 and was historically one of the biggest employers in the municipality. These areas are now turning into costly apartments and post-industrial businesses. Jeløya is today best known for its beaches, its scenery, a swarming harbor with boats, and Refsnes Gods,  a hotel with a renowned cuisine.
Jeløya is the site of a number of country manor houses on farms including Grønli gård and Kubberød gård. Torderød gård is now owned by Moss Municipality which hosts tours during the summer. Grimsrød gård housed Edvard Munch for a number of years. Roed gård has been established as a combined Arts and Cultural Center. Alby gård is the site of one of Norway's most widely known art galleries,  Galleri F 15.

Gallery
Passage 6:
Twin Cairns Island
The Belcher Islands (Inuktitut: ᓴᓪᓚᔪᒐᐃᑦ, Sanikiluaq) are an archipelago in the southeast part of Hudson Bay near the centre of the Nastapoka arc. The Belcher Islands are spread out over almost 3,000 km2 (1,200 sq mi). Administratively, they belong to the Qikiqtaaluk Region of Nunavut, Canada. The hamlet of Sanikiluaq (where the majority of the inhabitants of the Belcher Islands live) is on the north coast of Flaherty Island and is the southernmost in Nunavut. Along with Flaherty Island, the other large islands are Kugong Island, Tukarak Island, and Innetalling Island. Other main islands in the 1,500–island archipelago are Moore Island, Wiegand Island, Split Island, Snape Island and Mavor Island, while island groups include the Sleeper Islands, King George Islands, and Bakers Dozen Islands.

History
The archaeological evidence present on the islands indicates that they were inhabited by the Dorset culture between 500 BCE and 1000 CE. Centuries later, from 1200 to 1500, the Thule people made their presence on the islands.The first European to discover the islands was English sea explorer Henry Hudson, the namesake of Hudson Bay, who sighted the island in 1610. The islands are named after Royal Navy Admiral Sir Edward Belcher (1799-1877).
In the early 19th century, caribou herds which lived on the islands disappeared. In an alternative effort to find warm clothing, the inhabitants of the islands sought the down of the Eider duck, a species of bird which nests on the island.Before 1914, English-speaking cartographers knew very little about the Belcher Islands, which they showed on maps as specks, much smaller than their true extent. In that year a map showing them, drawn by George Weetaltuk, came into the hands of Robert Flaherty, and cartographers began to represent them more accurately.In 1941, a religious movement led by Charley Ouyerack, Peter Sala, and his sister Mina caused the death by blows or exposure of nine persons, an occurrence that came to be known as the Belcher Island Murders.

Geology
General geology
The geologic units of the Belcher Group, which forms the Belcher Islands, were deposited during the Paleoproterozoic. Combined with other Paleoproterozoic units that occur along the edge of the Superior Craton, the Belcher Group forms part of the Circum-Superior Belt.From youngest to oldest, the Belcher Group is composed of:
Loaf Formation (molasse)
Omarolluk Formation (flysch)
Flaherty Formation (flood basalt)
Kipalu Formation (iron formation)
Mukpollo Formation (sandstone)
Rowatt Formation (shallow water carbonate)
Laddie Formation (deep marine red bed)
Costello Formation (carbonate slope deposit)
Mavor Formation (stromatolite reef complex)
Tukarak Formation (shallow water carbonate)
Fairweather Formation (shallow water carbonate)
Eskimo Formation (flood basalt)
Kasegalik Formation (sabkha)The oldest part of the Belcher Group, the Kasegalik Formation, was deposited between 2.0185 and 2.0154 billion years ago. The Kasegalik Formation also contains the oldest unambiguous Cyanobacteria microfossils. Much of the  Belcher Group strata were deposited under intertidal to shallow-water conditions, although the Mavor Formation formed a platform margin stromatolite reef complex, and the overlying Costello and Laddie formations represent slope and deep basin deposits, respectively. The Kipalu Formation, deposited approximately 1.88 billion years ago, is notable for being a granular iron formation. The Flaherty Formation basalt that composes much of the Belcher Islands was deposited between 1.87 and 1.854 billion years ago, with the overlying Omarolluk and Loaf formations being deposited from 1.854 billion years ago until sometime after 1.83 billion years ago.

Soapstone
The occurrence of very high-quality soapstone in the Belcher Islands supports a locally significant carving industry. These soapstone occurrences formed when sedimentary rocks of the Belcher Group were intruded by Haig sills and dykes approximately 1.87 billion years ago. Most soapstone is quarried from a site on western Tukarak Island where dolomite of the Costello Formation was intruded by hot magma, with dolomite reacting with quartz and water under intense heat to form talc, calcite, and carbon dioxide:
3CaMg(CO3)2 + 4SiO2 + H2O  → [Heat] Mg3Si4O10(OH)2 + 3CaCO3 + 3CO2
Other minerals within the soapstone are largely calcite, dolomite, talc, and clinochlore, with minor amounts of ilmenite.
Although most soapstone has been sourced from two quarries, the relatively widespread occurrence of Haig intrusions within the Belcher Islands suggests that there may be many more possible sources of high-quality soapstone not yet discovered.

Flora
Several species of willow (Salix) form a large component of the native small shrubbery on the archipelago. These include rock willow (Salix vestita), bog willow (S. pedicellaris), and Labrador willow (S. argyrocarpa), as well as naturally occurring hybrids between S. arctica and S. glauca.
Trees cannot grow on the islands because of a lack of adequate soil.

Fauna
The main wildlife consists of belugas, walrus, caribou, common eiders and snowy owls all of which can be seen on the island year round. There is also a wide variety of fish that can be caught such as Arctic char, cod, capelin, lump fish, and sculpin. The historical relationship between the Sanikiluaq community and the eider is the subject of a feature-length Canadian documentary film called People of a Feather. The director, cinematographer and biologist Joel Heath, spent seven years on the project, writing biological articles on the eider.In 1998, the Belcher Island caribou (Rangifer tarandus groenlandicus) herd numbered 800.
Passage 7:
Wadmalaw Island
Wadmalaw Island is an island located in Charleston County, South Carolina, United States. It is one of the Sea Islands, a chain of tidal and barrier islands on the Atlantic Ocean.

Geography
Wadmalaw Island is located generally to the southwest of Johns Island and more than halfway encircled by it.  To the north it is bordered by Church Creek; to the northeast and east by Bohicket Creek; to the south by the North Edisto River; and to the west by the Bohicket Creek.  The island's only connection to the mainland is via a bridge over Church Creek.  The island is about 10 miles long by 6 miles wide. It has a land area of 108.502 km² (41.893 sq mi). The 2000 census reported a population of 2,611 persons.

History
Wadmalaw Island was landed upon by Captain Robert Sandford and the crew of the Berkeley Bay in mid-June 1666 after an excursion up the Bohicket Creek. It is believed that Sandford landed where Rockville, South Carolina now sits. On June 23, 1666, Captain and crew carried out the ritual of turf and twig, claiming the land for England and the Lords Proprietors.In 1670, 148 colonists arrived and settled on the west bank of the Ashley (Kiawah) River.  They survived the first four years of poor crop production through the generosity of natives who shared beans and corn.  They later moved to what is now Charleston.In 1890, planters organized the first sailing regatta at Rockville, less than a mile from the tea garden. The 120th Rockville Regatta was held in August, 2010.
In more recent times, The Lipton Tea Company operated an experimental tea farm on Wadmalaw Island from 1960 until 1987, when it was sold to Mack Fleming and Bill Hall. These gentlemen converted the experimental farm into a working tea Garden. The Charleston Tea Garden utilized a converted cotton picker and tobacco harvester to mechanically harvest the tea. The Charleston Tea Garden sold tea mail order known as American Classic Tea and also produced Sam's Choice Instant Tea, sold through Sam's Clubs. American Classic Tea has been the official tea of the White House since 1987. In 2003, Bigelow Tea Company purchased the Charleston Tea Garden and temporarily closed the garden in order to renovate it.  The garden reopened in January 2006. Tours are now offered of this last remaining working Tea Farm in America. Wadmalaw now produces Firefly, a sweet tea flavored vodka.

See also
Charleston Tea Garden
Passage 8:
Round Island (Nunavut)
Round Island is an uninhabited island in the Qikiqtaaluk Region of Nunavut, Canada. It is located across the mouth of Coutts Inlet in Baffin Bay off the northeastern coast of Baffin Island. Nova Zembla Island is 7.4 km (4.6 mi) to the northwest.Another, smaller Nunavut Round Island is located in Cross Bay, at the land end of Chesterfield Inlet.
Passage 9:
Nova Zembla Island
Nova Zembla Island ("New Land") is an uninhabited island in the Qikiqtaaluk Region of Nunavut, Canada. It is located across the mouth of Coutts Inlet in Baffin Bay off the northeastern coast of Baffin Island. Round Island is 7.4 km (4.6 mi) to the southeast.The island was visited in 1875 by a Swedish expedition led by Adolf Erik Nordenskiöld and sponsored by the businessman Oscar Dickson.
Passage 10:
Runmarö
Runmarö is an island located in the Stockholm archipelago in Sweden. The island is known for its many species of orchids (at least 27 different kinds) and 9 marshy lakes.

Notable residents
Author and entomologist Fredrik Sjöberg lives on the island with his family. The island is frequently referenced in his 2014 novel The Fly Trap.