Passage 1:
Rumbold of Mechelen
Saint Rumbold (or Rumold, Romuold, Latin: Rumoldus, Dutch: Rombout, French: Rombaut) was an Irish or Scottish Christian missionary, although his true nationality is not known for certain.
He was martyred near Mechelen by two men, whom he had denounced for their evil ways.Saint Rumbold's feast day is celebrated by the Roman Catholic Church, and Western Rite Orthodox Churches, on 24 June;
and it is celebrated in Ireland on 3 July.
He is the patron saint of Mechelen, where St. Rumbold's Cathedral possesses an elaborate golden shrine on its high altar, containing relics attributed to the saint. It is rumoured that his remains are buried inside the cathedral. Twenty-five paintings in the choir illustrate his life.

Life and legend
Rumbold is assumed to have been consecrated a regionary bishop at Rome. Aodh Buidhe Mac an Bhaird (c. 1590–1635) argued that Rumbold had been born in Ireland. He is also said to have been a Bishop of Dublin, the son of a Scottish king, and the brother of Saint Himelin. He is assumed to have worked under St. Willibrord in the Netherlands and Brabant, and also to have been a close companion of the hermit St. Gummarus, and of the preacher monk Fredegand van Deurne, who, according to one tradition, maintained contact with St. Foillan (who was murdered in the Sonian Forest around 665).St. Rumbold's biography, written around 1100 AD by Theodoricus, prior of Sint-Truiden Abbey, caused 775 to be the traditional year of the saint's death. The surrounding areas of Mechelen however, had been Christianized much earlier.
In 2004 a state-of-the-art examination of the relics assumed to be St. Rumbold's showed a death date between 580 and 655.
This would make Saint Rumbold a Hiberno-Scottish rather than an Anglo-Saxon missionary, and not a contemporary of either St. Willibrord, St. Himelin, or St. Gummarus.

St. Rumwold of Buckingham
There has been some historical confusion between Rumbold of Mechelen and the infant Saint Rumwold of Buckingham, who died in 662 AD at the age of 3 days. The latter has become referred to as Romwold, Rumwald, Runwald, Rumbald, or Rumbold. A compilation of three saints' lives as translated by Rosalind Love mentioned that on 15th-century records in Salisbury, an unknown author 'corrected' the attribution as "martyr" (possibly the Rumbold murdered in Mechelen) by annotating "confessor" (fitting in the miraculous infant Rumwold who was not a martyr). Also, the original dedication of churches to a St. Rumbold in Northern England appears uncertain.

Gallery
Passage 2:
Eleni Gabre-Madhin
Eleni Zaude Gabre-Madhin (born 12 July 1964) is an Ethiopian-born Swiss economist, and former chief executive officer of the Ethiopia Commodity Exchange (ECX). She has had many years of experience working on agricultural markets – particularly in Sub-Saharan Africa – and has held senior positions in the World Bank, the International Food Policy Research Institute (Washington), and United Nations (Geneva).

Eleni Gebremedhn
Eleni was born in Addis Ababa, Ethiopian Empire on 12 July 1964. She grew up in four different African countries including Kenya, Tanzania and South Africa. She speaks fluent Swahili, English, Amharic and French. She graduated from Rift Valley Academy in Kenya with the highest of honours. She has a PhD in Applied Economics from Stanford University, master's degrees from Michigan State University and bachelor's in economics from Cornell University. Eleni was selected as "Ethiopian Person of the Year" for the 2002 ET calendar year (2009/2010 Gregorian) by the Ethiopian newspaper Jimma Times.

Career
She was the main driving force behind the development of the Ethiopia Commodity Exchange (ECX). Whilst working as a researcher for the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) she examined agricultural markets for many years and noticed, as had many others, that whilst in some years or regions there were severe shortages or droughts in others there were surpluses or bumper harvests. Specifically in her survey of grain traders in 2002, she found that a key factor was the lack of effective infrastructure and services needed for grain markets to function properly.  Traders often failed to have access to sufficient credit, information about the market, transportation and other vital resources and contract compliance was difficult to enforce.  In 2004 she moved home from the US to lead an IFPRI program to improve Ethiopia's agricultural policies and markets. Specifically she undertook the important role of coordinating the advisory body developing the ECX.   She became CEO of the new exchange in 2008, and argued that "(W)hen farmers can sell their crops on the open market and get a fair price, they will have much more incentive to be productive, and Ethiopia will be much less prone to food crises" .... and that the "ECX will allow farmers and traders to link to the global economy, propelling Ethiopian agriculture forward to a whole new level."In February 2013, she became a director of Syngenta.In 2013, Eleni launched eleni LLC, a company intended to build and invest in commodity exchanges in markets in the developing world, including Africa.In November 2021, the Canadian novelist Jeff Pearce leaked a video that depicts Eleni's participation in a virtual meeting discussion, along with Professor Ephraim Isaac, former Ethiopian Minister of Foreign Affairs and current TPLF spokesperson Berhane Gebre-Christos and several Western diplomats, that mentioned a transitional government during Tigray War. Shortly, she was removed from membership of the Independent Economic Council, which formed to support Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed economic transition.  On 25 November, Eleni released a statement that denying the allegation as "deliberately misrepresented". Two days before the leaked video unveiled, police forces searched her house and remained undisclosed for suspected foul play.  The incident stirred public outrage in Ethiopia and its diaspora, condemning her as traitor. The University of Gondar also revoked an honorary doctorate it had awarded her.

Awards
In 2010, Eleni was named Ethiopian Person of the Year for the 2002 Ethiopian year. Eleni was listed as one of the 50 Women Shaping Africa in 2011.In 2012, Eleni was awarded the Yara Laurate Prize from the Norwegian fertilizer manufacturer Yara International for her outstanding contributions to sustainable food production and distribution with socio-economic impact. Previous recipients of the prize include former prime minister of Ethiopia Meles Zenawi. That same year, she was recognized as one of New African Magazine's 100 Most Influential Africans, won the African Banker Icon Award, and invited to the G8 Summit at Camp David.She was granted The Power with Purpose Award from Devex and McKinnsey in 2016.Formerly, Eleni Gabre-Madhin received an honorary doctorate, in 2013, from the University of Gondar in Ethiopia. However, later in November 2021, the University of Gondar revoked the Honorary Doctorate of Eleni Gabre-Madhin in relation to her involved clandestine video meeting aimed at toppling the democratically elected government of Ethiopia.
Passage 3:
Keōpūolani
Kalanikauikaʻalaneo Kai Keōpūolani-Ahu-i-Kekai-Makuahine-a-Kama-Kalani-Kau-i-Kealaneo (1778–1823) was a queen consort of Hawaiʻi and the highest ranking wife of King Kamehameha I.

Early life
Keōpuolani was born around 1778 at an area known as Pahoehoe of Pāpōhaku, near present-day Wailuku, on the island of Maui. She was known as Kalanikauikaʻalaneo in her early childhood.: 11  Her name means "Gathering of the Clouds of Heaven".
Her father was Kīwalaʻō, King of Hawaiʻi island. He was the son of King Kalaniʻōpuʻu of Hawaiʻi island who met Captain James Cook at Kealakekua Bay.
Her mother was Queen Kekuʻiapoiwa Liliha, half-sister of Kamehameha I. Their father was Keōuakupuapāikalani.
Kiwalaʻō and Kekuʻiapoiwa Liliha were half-siblings through their shared mother, High Chiefess Kalola-Pupuka-Honokawahilani of Maui.
As a child, Keōpuolani lived for a while in Hāna (the eastern tip of Maui), then moved back to the Wailuku area.

Battle of Kepaniwai
In 1790, while Keōpuolani was 11, Kamehameha attacked the island of Maui at the Battle of Kepaniwai while her great-uncle King Kahekili II was away on the island Oʻahu. When Maui forces under Kalanikupule lost to Kamehameha, Kalola along with her two daughters, many Maui chiefesses and Keōpuolani tried to flee to Oʻahu. They stopped in Molokaʻi as sickness overcame the elderly Kalola, and were caught by Kamehameha's forces. Kalola offered her granddaughter as a future bride and the recognition of Kamehameha as the ruler of Maui in exchange for peace. Other Maui chiefesses also joined Kamehameha's court.: 260 She was given the name Wahinepio (captive women) around this time, but this name is usually associated with another chiefess.: 11  She was commonly known as Keōpuolani.

Ancestry and rank
Keōpūolani was among the highest aliʻi of all the islands of Hawaiʻi in her days, a ranking called naha. This meant she was the product of a royal half-sister and brother marriage.
Her extended genealogy displays an extreme case of pedigree collapse; in the five preceding generations, the 64 possible positions for her ancestors are filled by only 30 individuals, largely due to multiple half-sibling marriages (by comparison, Charles II of Spain, an extreme case of European royal pedigree collapse, has 32 individuals in those positions, in his case largely due to multiple uncle-niece marriages).
This lineage gave her unquestionable social and political influence, which made her a coveted marriage partner for a chief to ensure heirs to inherit the combined ranks and birthrights of both parents. She married Kamehameha in 1795 and their marriage linked the House of Kamehameha to the ruling house of Maui and the old ruling house of Hawaii. Although Kamehameha had his own claims to these island, Keōpūolani further cemented his legitimacy over his usurpation of his cousin, Keōpūolani's father.
She possessed the kapu moe (prostrating taboo) which required commoners to fall to their face on the ground at her presence.  When chanters mentioned her name, listeners removed their kapa (bark cloth) garments above the waist in deference. Even the touching of her shadow by commoners was punishable by death. She was kindhearted and never enforced those punishments. Even Kamehameha had to remove his malo (loincloth) in her presence. She was amiable and affectionate, while her husband was not. Keōpūolani was strict in the observance of the kapu, but mild in her treatment of those who had broken it, so they often fled to her protection.

Children
She mothered at least three of Kamehameha's children: Prince Liholiho in 1797 (later King Kamehameha II), Prince Kauikeaouli in 1814 (later King Kamehameha III), and Princess Nāhienaena in 1815.Perhaps up to eleven or twelve children were born but all except the three mentioned died young.Because of the large age difference, Kamehameha called his children born to Keōpūolani his grandchildren. The children of nieces and nephews were collectively grandchildren among the older generations of true grandparents and their siblings. Only his children by Keōpūolani were considered so sacred that the Great Warrior would lie on his back and allow them to sit on his chest as a sign of their superior status. The sons were taken away to be raised by others, but she would break the Hawaiian tradition of hānai and keep her daughter Nāhienaena by her side.

King Kamehameha's death
Upon the death of Kamehameha I in 1819, Keōpūolani's eldest son, Liholiho, ascended the throne as Kamehameha II. For the most part, Keōpūolani stayed out of politics, but generally supported Kamehameha I's favorite wife Kaʻahumanu, who served as Kuhina Nui (Regent) during the short reign of Liholiho. After the death of Kamehameha I, Keōpūolani married High Chief Hoapili, a close friend of Kamehameha who was the son of Kameʻeiamoku, one of the royal twins. Hoapili was given the honor of secretly carrying the remains of Kamehameha by canoe to a secret site on the coast of Kona. This burial mystery has inspired the  epitaph: "Only the stars of the heavens know the resting place of Kamehameha."

ʻAi Noa and Christianity
Keōpūolani played an instrumental role in the ʻAi Noa, the overthrow of the Hawaiian kapu system. She collaborated with Queen Kaʻahumanu and Kahuna-nui Hewahewa, sharing a meal of forbidden foods. At the time, men were forbidden to eat with women according to the kapu. Since they were not punished by the gods, the kapu was broken.The breaking of the kapu came at an instrumental time for the missionaries who came in 1820. She was among the first of the aliʻi to convert to Christianity. She adopted western clothing and learned to read and write.
In March, 1823, Hoapili, now royal governor of Maui, asked to be supplied with books for Keōpūolani to pursue her studies. For a domestic chaplain they used Pu-aʻa-i-ki, also known as "Blind Bartimeus", who was known as "a spiritual light".
At this time, Keōpūolani made the public declaration that the custom of taking multiple spouses by royalty would be ending, to be consistent with Christian practice. Hoapili became her only husband.: 41 : 38

Illness
Keōpūolani became ill, and worsened the last week of August, 1823. Many chiefs began to assemble to pay their respects to the Queen. Vessels were dispatched for them to different parts of the Islands, and one was sent by the king to Honolulu for Dr. Blatchley. In the evening of September 8, sensing that she was dying, a messenger summoned the mission families to her house.
She extended her hand to them with a smile, and said "Maikai! — "Good", — and added, "Great is my love to God". In the morning she was a little better, and conversed with her husband Hoapili.
To the prime minister, Kalanimoku, on his arrival, she is quoted by the missionaries:

Jehovah is a good God. I love him and I love Jesus Christ. I have given myself to him to be his. When I die, let none of the evil customs of this country be practiced. Let not my body be disturbed. Let it be put in a coffin. Let the teachers attend, and speak to the people at my interment. Let me be buried, and let my burial be after the manner of Christ's people. I think very much of my grandfather, Kalaniopuʻu, and my father Kiwalaʻo, and my husband Kamehameha, and all my deceased relatives. They lived not to see these good times, and to hear of Jesus Christ. They died depending on false gods. I exceedingly mourn and lament on account of them, for they saw not these good times."

Baptism and death
Keōpūolani wanted to receive Christian baptism. The missionaries in Lahaina, Charles Stewart and William Richards, agreed it would be appropriate. However, they wanted a spokesman fluent in the Hawaiian language so the implications of the public ceremony would be clearly understood.

English missionary William Ellis arrived at this time, and the dying woman was acknowledged as a member of the church. The king and all the assembled leaders listened to Ellis's statement of the grounds on which baptism was administered to the queen; and when they saw that water was sprinkled on her in the name of God, they said, "Surely she is no longer ours. She has given herself to Jesus Christ. We believe she is his, and will go to dwell with him." 
She wanted her daughter Nāhiʻenaʻena to be raised as a Christian. Keōpūolani took her Christian name from Charles Stewart's wife Harriet Stewart, and her daughter would take the same name. An hour afterwards, in the early evening of September 16, 1823, she died.
The next day, the ships in port fired their guns in salute, and a large public funeral was held on September 18, 1823.
She was buried at a new tomb at Hale Kamani in Lahaina. In 1837, King Kamehameha III transferred her body to the sacred island of Mokuʻula in Lahaina, Maui. Later her remains were perhaps reburied at the Christian cemetery at Waiola Church, along with her daughter and many others in the royal family. Keōpūolani Park at 700 Halia Nakoa Street in Wailuku 20°53′37″N 156°29′4″W
and Keōpūolani Dormitory on the Kapalama Campus of Kamehameha Schools were named after her.

Family
Family tree
Ancestry
Passage 4:
Khalid al-Habib
Khalid Habib (Arabic: خالد حبيب)  (died October 16, 2008), born Shawqi Marzuq Abd al-Alam Dabbas (Arabic: شوقي مرزوق عبد العليم دباس), was an ascending member of al-Qaeda's central structure in Pakistan and Afghanistan. His nationality was reported as Egyptian (by CBS News) and as Moroccan (by The New York Times).
Habib was the operations commander for the region. He was one of several al-Qaeda members who were more battle-hardened by combat experience in Iraq, Chechnya, and elsewhere. This experience rendered them more capable than their predecessors. According to The New York Times, this cadre was more radical than the previous generation of al-Qaeda leadership. The FBI described Habib as "one of the five or six most capable, most experienced terrorists in the world.In 2008, Habib relocated from Wana to Taparghai, Pakistan to avoid missile strikes launched from US-operated MQ-1 Predator aircraft which targeted al Qaeda and Taliban personnel.  Khalid Habib was killed by a Predator strike near Taparghai on October 16, 2008. Habib was reportedly sitting in a Toyota station wagon which was struck by the missile. On October 28, militants confirmed to the Asia Times that Habib was killed in the drone attack.
Passage 5:
Kamehameha I
Kamehameha I (Hawaiian pronunciation: [kəmehəˈmɛhə]; Kalani Paiʻea Wohi o Kaleikini Kealiʻikui Kamehameha o ʻIolani i Kaiwikapu kauʻi Ka Liholiho Kūnuiākea; c. 1758? –  May 8 or 14, 1819), also known as Kamehameha the Great, was the conqueror and first ruler of the Kingdom of Hawaii. The state of Hawaii gave a statue of him to the National Statuary Hall Collection in Washington, D.C. as one of two statues it is entitled to install there.

Birth and childhood
Paternity and family history
Kamehameha (known as Paiea at birth), was born to Kekuʻiapoiwa II, the niece of Alapainui, the usurping ruler of Hawaii Island who had killed the two legitimate heirs of Keaweʻīkekahialiʻiokamoku during civil war. By most accounts he was born in Ainakea, Kohala, Hawaii. His father was Keōua Kalanikupuapa'ikalaninui; however, Native Hawaiian historian Samuel Kamakau says that Maui monarch Kahekili II had hānai adopted (traditional, informal adoption) Kamehameha at birth, as was the custom of the time. Kamakau believes this is why Kahekili II is often referred to as Kamehameha's father. The author also says that Kameʻeiamoku told Kamehameha I that he was the son of Kahekili II, saying, "I have something to tell you: Ka-hekili was your father, you were not Keoua's son. Here are the tokens that you are the son of Ka-hekili."King Kalakaua wrote that these rumors are scandals and should be dismissed as the offspring of hatred and jealousies of later years.  Regardless of the rumors, Kamehameha was a descendant of Keawe through his mother Kekuʻiapoiwa II; Keōua acknowledged him as his son and he is recognized as such by all the sovereigns and most genealogists.Accounts of Kamehameha I's birth vary, but sources place his birth between 1736 and 1761, with historian Ralph Simpson Kuykendall believing it to be between 1748 and 1761. An early source is thought to imply a 1758 dating because that date matched a visit from Halley's Comet, and would make him close to the age that Francisco de Paula Marín estimated he was. This dating, however, does not accord with the details of many well-known accounts of his life, such as his fighting as a warrior with his uncle, Kalaniʻōpuʻu, or his being of age to father his first children by that time. The 1758 dating also places his birth after the death of his father.Kamakau published an account in the Ka Nupepa Kuokoa in 1867 placing the date of Kamehameha's birth around 1736. He wrote, "It was during the time of the warfare among the chiefs of [the island of] Hawaii which followed the death of Keawe, chief over the whole island (Ke-awe-i-kekahi-aliʻi-o-ka-moku) that Kamehameha I was born". However, his general dating has been challenged as twenty years too early, related to disputes over Kamakau's inaccuracy of dating compared to accounts of foreign visitors. Regardless, Abraham Fornander wrote in his book, An Account of the Polynesian Race: Its Origins and Migrations: "when Kamehameha died in 1819 he was past eighty years old. His birth would thus fall between 1736 and 1740, probably nearer the former than the latter". A Brief History of the Hawaiian People by William De Witt Alexander lists the birth date in the "Chronological Table of Events of Hawaiian History" as 1736. In 1888 the Kamakau account was challenged by Samuel C. Damon in the missionary publication; The Friend, deferring to a 1753 dating that was the first mentioned by James Jackson Jarves. But the Kamakau dating was widely accepted due to support from Abraham Fornander.

Concealment and childhood
At the time of Kamehameha's birth, Keōua and his half-brother Kalaniʻōpuʻu were serving Alapaʻinui, ruler of the island of Hawaii. Alapaʻinui had brought the brothers to his court after defeating both their fathers in the civil war that followed the death of Keaweʻīkekahialiʻiokamoku. Keōua died while Kamehameha was young, so Kamehameha was raised in the court of his uncle, Kalaniʻōpuʻu. The traditional mele chant of Keaka, wife of Alapainui, indicates that Kamehameha was born in the month of ikuwā (winter) or around November. Alapai had given the child, Kamehameha, to his wife, Keaka, and her sister, Hākau, to care for after the ruler discovered the infant had survived.On February 10, 1911, the Kamakau version was challenged by the oral history of the Kaha family, as published in newspaper articles also appearing in the Kuoko. After Kamakau's history was published again, to a larger English reading public in 1911 Hawaii, the Kaha version of these events was published by Kamaka Stillman, who had objected to the Nupepa article.

Unification of the islands
Hawaii Island
Kamehameha was raised in the royal court of his uncle Kalaniʻōpuʻu. He achieved prominence in 1782, upon Kalaniʻōpuʻu's death. While the kingship was inherited by Kīwalaʻō, Kalaniʻōpuʻu's son,  Kamehameha was given a prominent religious position as guardian of the Hawaiian god of war, Kūkāʻilimoku. He was also given control of the district of Waipiʻo Valley. The two cousins' relationship was strained after Kamehameha made a dedication to the gods instead of allowing Kīwalaʻō to do that. Kamehameha accepted the allegiance of a group of chiefs from the Kona district.
The other story took place after the prophecy was passed along by the high priests and high chiefs. When Kamehameha was able to lift the Naha Stone, he was considered the fulfiller of the prophecy. Other ruling chiefs, Keawe Mauhili, the Mahoe (twins) Keoua, and other chiefs rejected the prophecy of Ka Poukahi. The high chiefs of Kauai supported Kiwala`o even after learning about the prophecy.
The five Kona chiefs supporting Kamehameha were Keʻeaumoku Pāpaʻiahiahi (Kamehameha's father-in-law/grand uncle), Keaweaheulu Kaluaʻāpana (Kamehameha's uncle), Kekūhaupiʻo (Kamehameha's warrior teacher), and Kameʻeiamoku and Kamanawa (twin uncles of Kamehameha). They defended Kamehameha as the unifier Ka Na`i aupuni. High Chiefs Keawe Mauhili and Keeaumoku were by genealogy the next in line for ali`i nui. Both chose the younger nephews Kīwalaʻō and Kamehameha over themselves.  Kīwalaʻō was soon defeated in the first key conflict, the Battle of Mokuʻōhai. Kamehameha and his chiefs took over Konohiki responsibilities and sacred obligations of the districts of Kohala, Kona, and Hāmākua on Hawaiʻi island.The prophecy included far more than Hawaiʻi island. It went across and beyond the Pacific Islands to the semi-continent of Aotearoa (New Zealand). He was supported by his most political wife Kaʻahumanu and father, High Chief Keeaumoku. Senior counselor to Kamehameha, she became one of Hawaiʻi's most powerful figures. Kamehameha and his council of chiefs planned to unite the rest of the Hawaiian Islands. Allies came from British and American traders, who sold guns and ammunition to Kamehameha. Another major factor in Kamehameha's continued success was the support of Kauai chief Ka`iana and Captain Brown, who used to be with Kaeo okalani. He guaranteed Kamehameha unlimited gunpowder from China and gave him the formula for gunpowder: sulfur, saltpeter, and charcoal, all of which are abundant in the islands.  Two westerners who lived on Hawaiʻi island, Isaac Davis and John Young, married native Hawaiian women and assisted Kamehameha.

Olowalu Massacre
In 1789, Simon Metcalfe captained the fur trading vessel the Eleanora while his son, Thomas Humphrey Metcalfe, captained the ship Fair American along the Northwest Coast. They were to rendezvous in what was then known as the Sandwich Islands. Fair American was held up when it was captured by the Spanish and then quickly released in San Blas. The Eleanora arrived in 1790, where it was greeted by chief Kameʻeiamoku. The chief did something that the captain took offense to, and Metcalfe struck the chief with a rope's end. Sometime later, while docked in Honuaula, Maui, a small boat tied to the ship was stolen by native townspeople with a crewman inside. When Metcalfe discovered where the boat was taken, he sailed directly to the village of Olowalu. There he confirmed the boat had been broken apart and the man killed. He had already fired muskets into the previous village where he was anchored, killing some residents.  Metcalfe now took aim at Olowalu. He had all cannons moved to one side of the ship and began his trading call out to the locals. Hundreds of people came out to the beach to trade and canoes were launched. When they were within firing range, the ship fired on the Hawaiians, killing over 100. Six weeks later, Fair American was stuck near the Kona coast of Hawaii where chief Kameʻeiamoku was living, near Kaʻūpūlehu. He had decided to attack the next foreign ship to avenge the strike by the elder Metcalfe. He canoed out to the ship with his men, where he killed Metcalfe's son and all but one (Isaac Davis) of the five crewmen. Kamehameha took Davis into protection and took possession of the ship. Eleanora was at that time anchored at Kealakekua Bay, where the ship's boatswain had gone ashore and been captured by Kamehameha's forces because Kamehameha believed Metcalfe was planning more revenge. Eleanora waited several days before sailing off, apparently without knowledge of what had happened to Fair American or Metcalfe's son. Davis and Eleanora's boatswain, John Young, tried to escape, but were treated as chiefs, given wives and settled in Hawaii.

Invasion of Maui
In 1790 Kamehameha's army invaded Maui with the assistance of John Young and Isaac Davis. Using cannons from the Fair American, they defeated Maui's army at the bloody Battle of Kepaniwai while the aliʻi Kahekili II was on Oahu.

Death of Keōua Kuahuula
In 1790 Kamehameha advanced against the district of Puna deposing Keawemaʻuhili. At his home in Kaʻū, where he was exiled, Keōua Kūʻahuʻula took advantage of Kamehameha's absence in Maui and began an uprising. When Kamehameha returned, Keōua escaped to the Kīlauea volcano, which erupted. Many warriors died from the poisonous gas emitted from the volcano.When the Puʻukoholā Heiau was completed in 1791, Kamehameha invited Keōua to meet with him. Keōua may have been dispirited by his recent losses. He may have mutilated himself before landing so as to render himself an inappropriate sacrificial victim. As he stepped on shore, one of Kamehameha's chiefs threw a spear at him. By some accounts, he dodged it but was then cut down by musket fire. Caught by surprise, Keōua's bodyguards were killed. With Keōua dead, and his supporters captured or slain, Kamehameha became King of Hawaiʻi island.

Maui and Oʻahu
In 1795, Kamehameha set sail with an armada of 960 war canoes and 10,000 soldiers. He quickly secured the lightly defended islands of Maui and Molokaʻi at the Battle of Kawela. He moved on to the island of Oʻahu, landing his troops at Waiʻalae and Waikīkī. Kamehameha did not know that one of his commanders, a high-ranking aliʻi named Kaʻiana, had defected to Kalanikūpule. Kaʻiana assisted in cutting notches into the Nuʻuanu Pali mountain ridge; these notches, like those on a castle turret, were to serve as gunports for Kalanikūpule's cannon.  In a series of skirmishes, Kamehameha's forces pushed Kalanikūpule's men back until they were cornered on the Pali Lookout. While Kamehameha moved on the Pali, his troops took heavy fire from the cannon. He assigned two divisions of his best warriors to climb to the Pali to attack the cannons from behind; they surprised Kalanikūpule's gunners and took control. With the loss of their guns, Kalanikūpule's troops fell into disarray and were cornered by Kamehameha's still-organized troops. A fierce battle at Nuʻuanu ensued, with Kamehameha's forces forming an enclosing wall. Using traditional Hawaiian spears, as well as muskets and cannon, they killed most of Kalanikūpule's forces. Over 400 men were forced over the Pali's cliff, a drop of 1,000 feet. Kaʻiana was killed during the action; Kalanikūpule was later captured and sacrificed to Kūkāʻilimoku.In April 1810, Kamehameha I negotiated the peaceful unification of the islands with Kauaʻi. His court genealogist and high priest Kalaikuʻahulu was instrumental in the monarch's decision not to kill Kaumualiʻi, the ruler of that island, when he was the single member of the aliʻi council to agree with Kamehameha's own reluctance to do so. The other aliʻi continued with the plan to poison Kaumualiʻi when Isaac Davis warned him, making the ruler cut his trip short and return to Kauaʻi, leaving Davis to be poisoned by the aliʻi instead.

Aliʻi nui of the Hawaiian Islands
As ruler, Kamehameha took steps to ensure the islands remained a united realm after his death. He unified the legal system. He used the products collected in taxes to promote trade with Europe and the United States.
The origins of the Law of the Splintered Paddle are derived from before the unification of the Island of Hawaiʻi. In 1782 during a raid, Kamehameha caught his foot in a rock. Two local fishermen, fearful of the great warrior, hit Kamehameha hard on the head with a large paddle, which broke the paddle. Kamehameha was stunned and left for dead, allowing the fisherman and his companion to escape. Twelve years later, the same fishermen were brought before Kamehameha for punishment. The king instead blamed himself for attacking innocent people, gave the fishermen gifts of land and set them free. He declared the new law, "Let every elderly person, woman, and child lie by the roadside in safety."Young and Davis became advisors to Kamehameha and provided him with advanced weapons that helped in combat. Kamehameha was also a religious king and the holder of the war god Kūkāʻilimoku. The explorer George Vancouver noted that Kamehameha worshiped his gods and wooden images in a heiau, but originally wanted to bring England's religion, Christianity, to Hawaiʻi. Missionaries were not sent from Great Britain because Kamehameha told Vancouver that the gods he worshiped were his gods with mana, and that through these gods, Kamehameha had become supreme ruler over all of the islands. Witnessing Kamehameha's devotion, Vancouver decided against sending missionaries from England.

Later life
After about 1812, Kamehameha spent his time at Kamakahonu, a compound he built in Kailua-Kona. As was the custom of the time, he had several wives and many children, though he outlived about half of them.

Final resting place
When Kamehameha died on May 8 or 14, 1819, his body was hidden by his trusted friends, Hoapili and Hoʻolulu, in the ancient custom called hūnākele (literally, "to hide in secret"). The mana, or power of a person, was considered to be sacred. As per the ancient custom, his body was buried in a hidden location because of his mana. His final resting place remains unknown. At one point in his reign, Kamehameha III asked that Hoapili show him where his father's bones were buried, but on the way there Hoapili knew that they were being followed, so he turned around.

Family
Kamehameha had many wives. The exact number is debated because documents that recorded the names of his wives were destroyed. Hiram Bingham I lists 21 wives, but earlier research from Mary Kawena Pukui counted 26. In Kamehameha's Children Today authors Charles Ahlo, Rubellite Kawena Johnson and Jerry Walker list 30 wives: 18 who had children, and 12 who did not. They state the total number of children to be 35: 17 sons and 18 daughters. While he had many wives and children, only his children through his highest-ranking wife, Keōpūolani, succeeded him to the throne. In Ho`omana: Understanding the Sacred and Spiritual, Chun stated that Keōpūolani supported Kaʻahumanu's ending of the Kapu system as the best way to ensure that Kamehameha's children and grandchildren would rule the kingdom.

In popular culture
Kamehameha I is the namesake of Goku's signature technique and energy attack in the Japanese media franchise Dragon Ball. Series creator Akira Toriyama has said that he named the attack after Kamehameha thanks to his wife's advice.
Kamehameha I is the leader of the civilization of Polynesia in 2010's Civilization V and speaks in his native Hawaiian.

Citations
Passage 6:
Baglan Mailybayev
Baglan Mailybayev (Kazakh: Бағлан Асаубайұлы Майлыбаев, Bağlan Asaubaiūly Mailybaev) was born on 20 May 1975 in Zhambyl region, Kazakhstan. His nationality is Kazakh. He is a politician of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Doctor of Law (2002) (under the supervision of Professor Zimanov S.Z. – scientific advisor and academician of National Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Kazakhstan) and PhD in political science (1998).

Biography
In 1996 he obtained a bachelor's degree in journalism from the Kazakh State National University named after Al-Farabi.
In 1998 he was awarded a degree of PhD in political science after graduating from a graduate school of Political Science and Political Administration of the Russian Academy of Public Administration under the president of the Russian Federation.
Between 1998 and 2002 he used to work as a senior researcher at the Institute of State and Law of the National Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Kazakhstan as well as a lecturer at the Kazakh State University of International Relations and World Languages named after Abylai Khan.
Between February and May 2002 he worked as the Head of Mass Media Department of the Ministry of Culture, Information and Public Accord of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Between May 2002 and September 2003 he was a President of the Joint Stock Company "Republican newspaper "Kazakhstanskaya Pravda"".
Between September 2003 and December 2004 he was a President of the Joint Stock Company "Zan".
Since December 2004 he had served as the Head of the Press office of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Since October 2008 he had been a Chairman of the Committee of Information and Archives of Ministry of Culture and Information of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Since December 2008 he had been a Vice Minister of Culture and Information of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Between June 2009 and October 2011 he worked as Press Secretary of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In October 2011 he was appointed as a Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan by the Presidential decree.

Personal life
Marital status: He is married and has two children.

Awards
Baglan Mailybayev was awarded "Kurmet", "Parasat" orders, medals and a letter of acknowledgement of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. In 1998 he became a prizewinner at the award of Young Scientists of National Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

Publications
He is the author of 4 monographs and more than 150 scientific publications, published in Kazakhstani as well as in foreign editions. He is also the author of a number of feature stories, supervisor and a scriptwriter of television projects and documentaries.

Research interests
Comparative Political Science, Theory of State and Law, History of State and Law, Constitutional Law.
Language abilities: He speaks Kazakh, Russian and English fluently.

Note
The predecessor of Baglan Mailybayev at the position of a Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan was Maulen Ashimbayev.
Passage 7:
Nayelly Hernández
Nayelly Hernández (born 23 February 1986) is a former Mexican professional squash player. She has represented Mexico internationally in several international competitions including the Central American and Caribbean Games, Pan American Games, Women's World Team Squash Championships. Nayelly achieved her highest career ranking of 57 in October 2011 during the 2011 PSA World Tour. Her husband Chris Walker whose nationality is English is also a professional squash player. She joined the Trinity College in 2008 as the first Mexican female to join a US college for squash and graduated in 2010.

Career
Nayelly joined PSA in 2006 and took part in the PSA World Tour until 2016, the 2015-16 PSA World Tour was her last World Tour prior to the retirement.
Nayelly Hernandez represented Mexico at the 2007 Pan American Games and claimed a bronze medal as a part of the team event on her maiden appearance at the Pan American Games. In the 2011 Pan American Games she clinched gold in the women's doubles event along with Samantha Teran and settled for bronze in the team event. She has also participated at the Women's World Team Squash Championships on four occasions in 2010, 2012, 2014 and in 2016.
Passage 8:
Ali Rahuma
Ali Khalifa Rahuma (Arabic: علي ارحومه)  (born May 16, 1982) is a Libyan football midfielder, also a Libyan national. He currently plays for Al-Ittihad, and is a member of the Libya national football team.

External links
Ali Rahuma at National-Football-Teams.com
SoccerPunter. “Ali Khalifa Rahuma Profile and Statistics.” SoccerPunter. SoccerPunter, n.d. Web. 6 Sept. 2016
Passage 9:
Fulco
Fulco may refer to:

Fulco of Ireland (fl. 8th/9th century), Irish soldier and saint
Fulco of Basacers (fl. 1120), Norman nobleman
Fulco I, Margrave of Milan (died 1128)
Fulco (bishop of Estonia) (fl. 1165)
Fulco Luigi Ruffo-Scilla (1840–1895), Italian cardinal
Fulco Ruffo di Calabria (1884–1946), Italian aviator and politician
Fulco di Verdura (1898–1978), Italian jeweller
Fabio Fulco (born 1970), Italian actor
Giovanni Fulco (died c. 1680), Italian baroque painter
William Fulco (born 1936), American Jesuit priest
Bettina Fulco (born 1968), Argentine tennis player

See also
Fulk, a given name
Falco (disambiguation)
Passage 10:
Roberto Savio
Roberto Savio (born in Rome, Italy, but also holding Argentine nationality) is a journalist, communication expert, political commentator, activist for social and climate justice  and advocate of global governance. He has spent most of his career with Inter Press Service (IPS), the news agency which he founded in 1964 along with Argentine journalist Pablo Piacentini.Savio studied Economics at the University of Parma, followed by post-graduate courses in Development Economics under Gunnar Myrdal, History of Art and International Law in Rome. He started his professional career as a research assistant in International Law at the University of Parma.

Early activities
While at university, Roberto Savio acted as an international officer with Italy’s National Student Association and the Youth Movement of Italy’s Christian Democracy party, eventually taking on responsibility for Christian Democracy’s relations with developing countries. After leaving university, he became international press chief for former Italian Prime Minister Aldo Moro. After the 1973 Chilean coup d’etat, Roberto Savio left Italian politics to pursue journalism.

Early journalistic career
Roberto Savio’s career in journalism began with Italian daily ‘Il Popolo’ and he went on to become Director for News Services for Latin America with RAI, Italy’s state broadcasting company. He received a number of awards for TV documentaries, including the Saint-Vincent Award for Journalism, the most prestigious journalism award in Italy.

Inter Press Service (IPS)
Throughout his student years, Roberto Savio had cultivated an interest in analysing and explaining the huge information and communication gap that existed between the North and the South of the world, particularly Latin America. Together with Argentine journalist Pablo Piacentini, he decided to create a press agency that would permit Latin American exiles in Europe to write about their countries for a European audience.
That agency, which was known in the early days as Roman Press Agency, was the seed for what was to become the Inter Press Service (IPS) news agency, which was formally established at a meeting in the Schloss Eichholz conference centre of the Konrad Adenauer Foundation (the foundation of the CDU), in Wesseling near Bonn, then the capital city of West Germany.
From the outset, it was decided that IPS would be a non-profit cooperative of journalists and its statute declared that two-thirds of the members should come from the South.
Roberto Savio gave IPS its unique mission – “giving a voice to the voiceless” – acting as a communication channel that privileges the voices and the concerns of the poorest and creates a climate of understanding, accountability and participation around development, promoting a new international information order between the South and the North.
The agency grew rapidly throughout the 1970s and 1980s until the dramatic events of 1989-91 – the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of the Soviet Union – prompted new goals and definitions: IPS was the first news outlet to identify itself as “global” and define the new concept of neoliberal globalisation as contributing to the distancing of developing countries from wealth, trade and policy-making.
IPS offers communication services to improve South–South cooperation and South-North exchanges and carries out projects with international partners to open up communication channels to all social sectors.
IPS has been recognised by the United Nations and granted NGO consultative status (category I) with ECOSOC.
With the strengthening of the process of globalisation, IPS has dedicated itself to global issues, becoming the news agency for global civil society: more than 30,000 NGOs subscribe to its services, and several million people are readers of its online services.
Under Roberto Savio, IPS won the Washington-based Population Institute’s “most conscientious news service” award nine time in the 1990s, beating out the major wire services year in and year out.IPS won FAO’s A.H. Boerma Award for journalism in 1997  for its "significant contribution to covering sustainable agriculture and rural development in more than 100 countries, filling the information gap between developed and developing countries by focusing on issues such as rural living, migration, refugees and the plight of women and children".
On the initiative of Roberto Savio, IPS established the International Journalism Award in 1985 to honour outstanding journalists whose efforts, and often lives, contributed significantly to exposing human rights violations and advancing democracy, most often in developing countries. In 1991, the scope of the award was broadened to reflect the tremendous changes taking place in the world following the historic break-up of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War. The Award, renamed the International Achievement Award, was given in recognition of the work of individuals and organisations that “continue to fight for social and political justice in the new world order”.
Roberto Savio is now President Emeritus of IPS and Chairman of the IPS Board of Trustees, which also includes former U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, former Portuguese President Mario Soares, former UNESCO Director-General Federico Mayor Zaragoza, former Finnish President and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Martti Ahtisaari, former Costa Rican President and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Oscar Arias and former Japanese Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifue.
After stepping down as Director-General of IPS, Roberto Savio has continued his interest in “alternative” communication and information, founding Other News as an international non-governmental association of people concerned about the decline of the information media.

Other News
In 2008, Roberto Savio launched the online Other News service to provide “information that markets eliminate”.
Other News publishes reports that have already appeared in niche media but not in mass circulation media, in addition to opinions and analyses from research centres, universities and think tanks – material that is intended to give readers access to news and opinion that they will not find in their local newspapers but which they might wish to read “as citizens who care about a world free from the pernicious effects of today’s globalisation”.
Other News also distributes daily analysis on international issues, particularly the themes of global governance and multilateralism, to several thousand policy-makers and leaders of civil society, in both English and Spanish.

Communication initiatives
An internationally renowned expert in communications issues, Roberto Savio has helped launched numerous communication and information projects, always with an emphasis on the developing world.
Among others, Roberto Savio helped launch the National Information Systems Network (ASIN) for Latin America and the Caribbean,  the UNESCO-sponsored Agencia Latinoamericana de Servicios Especiales de Informacion [Latin American Special Information Services Agency] (ALASEI), and the Women’s Feature Service (WFS), initially an IPS service and now an independent NGO with headquarters in New Delhi.
He also founded the Technological Information Promotion System (TIPS), a major U.N. project to implement and foster technological and economic cooperation among developing countries, and he developed Women into the New Network for Entrepreneurial Reinforcement (WINNER), a TIPS training project aimed at educating and empowering small and medium woman entrepreneurs in developing countries. The activities of TIPS are currently carried by the executing agency, Development Information Network (DEVNET), an international association which Roberto Savio helped create and which has been recognised by the United Nations as an NGO holding consultative status (category I) with the U.N. Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC).
Roberto Savio has also been actively involved in promoting exchanges between regional information services, such as between ALASEI and the Organisation of Asian News Agencies (OANA) now known as the Organisation of Asia-Pacific News Agencies, and between the PanAfrican News Agency (PANA) and the Federation of Arab News Agencies (FANA).
Roberto Savio was instrumental in placing the concept of a Development Press Bulletin Service Tariff on the agenda of UNESCO’s International Commission for the Study
of Communication Problems (MacBride Commission).
Roberto Savio has also worked closely in the field of information and communication with many United Nations organisations, including the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR).

Achievements and awards
In 1970, Roberto Savio received the Saint-Vincent Award for Journalism, the most prestigious journalism award in Italy, for a five-part series on Latin America which was recognised as “best TV transmission”.
He was awarded the Hiroshima Peace Award in 2013 for his “contribution towards the construction of a century of peace by ‘giving voice to the voiceless’ through Inter Press Service for nearly five decades”. The award was established by Soka Gakkai, a lay Buddhist organisation based in Tokyo.
He received the Joan Gomis Memorial Award (Catalunya) for Journalism for Peace in 2013.In October 2016, during the 31st Festival of Latin American Cinema in Trieste, Italy, Roberto Savio received the "Salvador Allende" award, given to honour a personality from the world of culture, art or politics who actively supported the conservation of Latin America's rich history and culture.In 2019, he received a special diploma from the President of Chile, Michelle Bachelet, for his role of solidarity during the Chilean military dictatorship.
He was appointed by President of the Republic Mattarella, one of the twelve Knights of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic for 2021. He also received an honorary degree in political science from the United Nations Peace University in 2021.

Advisory activities
Roberto Savio served as Senior Adviser for Strategies and Communication to the Director General of the International Labour Organization (ILO) from 1999 to 2003. He also served as an internal communication consultant to Catherine Bertini, Executive Director of the World Food Programme (WFP), in 2000.

Affiliations
From 1999 to 2003, Roberto Savio was a board member of the Training Centre for Regional Integration, based in Montevideo, Uruguay.
After several years as a member of the Governing Council of the Society for International Development (SID), the world’s oldest international civil society development organisation, he was elected Secretary-General for three terms, and is now the organisation’s Secretary-General Emeritus.
Roberto Savio was founder and President of Indoamerica, an NGO that promotes education in poor areas of Argentina suffering from social breakdown.
He has been a member of the International Committee of the World Social Forum (WSF) since it was established in 2001, a member of the International Council and was elected as Coordinator of the ‘Media, Culture and Counter-Hegemony’ thematic area at WSF 2003.
Roberto Savio is co-founder of Media Watch International, based in Paris, of which he is Secretary General.
Until 2009, Roberto Savio was Chairman of the Board of the Alliance for a New Humanity, an international foundation established in Puerto Rico, which has been promoting the culture of peace since 2001 and whose Board includes thinker Deepak Chopra, Spanish judge Balthazar Garzon, Nobel prize winners Oscar Arias and Betty Williams, and philanthropists Ray Chambers, Solomon Levis and Howard Rosenfield. He is now a member of the Board.He is Deputy Director of the Scientific Council of the New Policy Forum (formerly the World Policy Forum), founded by Mikhail Gorbachev and based in Luxembourg, to provide a space for reflection and new thinking on the current international situation by influential global leaders.
Roberto Savio is responsible for international relations of the European Centre for Peace and Development, based in Belgrade, whose mission is to contribute to peace and development in Europe and to international cooperation in the transfer of knowledge based on the premise that development under conditions of peace is only possible when conceived as human development.
Roberto Savio is Chairman of Accademia Panisperna, a cultural meeting space in the centre of Rome, and is President of Arcoiris TV, an online TV channel with the world’s largest collection of videos and registrations of political and cultural events (over 70,000 hours), based in Modena, Italy.
In 2016, Roberto Savio started contributing on a monthly basis to the Wall Street International Magazine with an economical and political column.

Films and publications
In 1972, Roberto Savio produced a three-part documentary on Che Guevara titled ‘Che Guevara – Inchiesta su un mito’ (Che Guevara – Investigation of a Myth), and has also produced five films, two of which were presented at the Venice and Cannes film festivals.
Roberto Savio has published several books, including ‘Verbo America’ together with Alberto Luna (1990), which deals with the cultural identity of Latin America, and ‘The Journalists Who Turned the World Upside Down’ (2012), which has been published in three languages (English, Italian and Spanish),  is a collection of narratives by over 100 IPS journalists and key global players, including Nobel Peace Prize laureates, who have supported the agency. It looks at information and communication as key elements in changes to the old post-Second World War and post-Cold War worlds. It provides an insight into the idealism that fired many of those who worked for the agency as well as the high esteem in which it was held by many prominent figures in the international community.
In October 2016, Roberto Savio presented the first Other News publication: “Remembering Jim Grant: Champion for Children”, an online edition of the book dedicated to Jim Grant, UNICEF Executive Director 1980-1995, who saved 25 million children

Current activities
Roberto Savio is currently engaged in a campaign for the governance of globalisation and social and climate justice, which takes him as a speaker to numerous conferences worldwide, and about which he produces a continuous stream of articles and essays.He is Deputy Director of the Scientific Council of the New Policy Forum (formerly the World Policy Forum), founded by Mikhail Gorbachev and based in Luxembourg, to provide a space for reflection and new thinking on the current international situation by influential global leaders.
Roberto Savio is responsible for international relations of the European Centre for Peace and Development, based in Belgrade, whose mission is to contribute to peace and development in Europe and to international cooperation in the transfer of knowledge based on the premise that development under conditions of peace is only possible when conceived as human development.
Roberto Savio is Chairman of Accademia Panisperna, a cultural meeting space in the centre of Rome, and is President of Arcoiris TV, an online TV channel with the world’s largest collection of videos and registrations of political and cultural events (over 70,000 hours), based in Modena, Italy.
Member of the Executive Committee for Fondazione Italiani, established in Rome, which publishes an online weekly magazine and organizes conferences about global issues.
Member of the  Maurice Strong Sustainability Award Selection Panel, established by the Global Sustainability Forum.

External links
Roberto Savio's stories published by IPS News
Other News service
Roberto Savio's stories on Other News
Other News Facebook page
Roberto Savio's Facebook page
PREMIO SALVADOR ALLENDE A ROBERTO SAVIOInterviews and Articles

The ‘Acapulco Paradox’ – Two Parallel Worlds Each Going Their Own Way
What if Youth Now Fight for Social Change, But From the Right?
Global governance and common values: the unavoidable debate
Banks, Inequality and Citizens
It is now official: the current inter-governmental system is not able to act in the interest of humankind
Europe has lost its compass
Ever Wondered Why the World is a Mess?
Sliding Back to the Victorian Age
Global Inequality and the Destruction of Democracy
A Future With No Safety Net? How Brutal Austerity Cuts Are Dismantling the European Dream
WE NEED BETTER, NOT MORE, INFORMATION