Passage 1:
Isabella of Valois, Duchess of Bourbon
Isabella of Valois (1313 – 26 July 1383) was a Duchess of Bourbon by marriage to Peter I, Duke of Bourbon.  She was the daughter of Charles of Valois by his third wife Mahaut of Châtillon.

Life
On 25 January 1336 Isabella married Peter I, Duke of Bourbon, son of Louis I, Duke of Bourbon and Mary of Avesnes. Peter and Isabella had only one son, Louis and seven daughters. Her husband died at the Battle of Poitiers in 1356, and Isabella never remarried. 
After her husband's death Isabella's son Louis became the Duke of Bourbon. In the same year 1356, Isabella arranged for her daughter Joanna to marry Charles V of France; as he was at the time the Dauphin of France, Joanna duly became Dauphine.
She had as her butler Jean Saulnier, knight, lord of Thoury-on-Abron, councilor and chamberlain of the king, bailli of Saint-Pierre-le-Moûtier.Upon becoming a widow, Isabella took the veil. She died on 26 July 1383 at the age of seventy. She was buried in Eglise des Frères Mineurs in Paris.

Issue
Louis II, Duke of Bourbon, 1337-1410, became Duke of Bourbon in 1356 married Anne of Auvergne had issue.
Joanna of Bourbon, 1338-1378, married King Charles V of France, had issue.
Blanche of Bourbon, 1339-1361, married King Peter of Castile, she was murdered by him in 1361 and had no issue.
Bonne of Bourbon, 1341-1402, married Amadeus VI of Savoy, by whom she had issue.
Catherine of Bourbon, 1342-1427, married John VI of Harcourt
Margaret of Bourbon, 1344-1416, married Arnaud Amanieu, Lord of Albret, by whom she had issue.
Isabelle of Bourbon, 1345-1345, died young
Marie of Bourbon, 1347-1401, prioress of Poissy

Ancestors
Passage 2:
Blanche of Bourbon
Blanche of Bourbon (1339–1361) was Queen of Castile as the wife of King Peter. She was one of the daughters of Peter I, Duke of Bourbon and Isabella of Valois.

Queen
On 3 June 1353, aged 14,  she married in person at Valladolid, Spain,  King Peter of Castile. Previously, she had been married by proxy at Abbaye de Preuilly on 9 July 1352.  They married because Peter wanted an alliance with France. It is believed by historians that King Peter had married his lover, the Castilian noble Maria de Padilla before his marriage to Blanche, though he did deny this. There were many difficulties in getting the money promised as a dowry for Blanche.
Three days after their marriage, Peter abandoned Blanche for Maria de Padilla, with whom he later had four children.
Eventually Blanche was imprisoned in the castle of Arevalo. Blanche's cousin, John II of France, appealed to Pope Innocent VI to have Peter excommunicated for keeping Blanche imprisoned, but the Pope refused. Blanche and Peter had no children.

Death
In 1361, Blanche was transferred to the town of Medina Sidonia, where she was kept distant from possible rescue by the forces from Aragon and France battling King Peter. The pope advocated for her release.

In 1361, after Peter had made peace with the King of Aragon, he returned to Seville and hoped to eliminate the last bastions of resistance to his rule. According to Pero López de Ayala, he then instructed Iñigo Ortiz de Estuñiga, who was charged with keeping his wife imprisoned in Medina Sidonia, to kill her. Ayala, who had later joined with a winning faction led by Henry II, states that to Peter's anger, Estuñiga declined because the act was treasonous and likely to cause further disorder in the country. The King demanded that she be handed over to Juan Pérez de Rebolledo of Jeréz, a crossbowman of the king, who carried out the execution. However, partisans over the years were to write divergent stories about these events, depending on whether you looked upon him as "the cruel" (el Cruel) or "the purveyor of justice" (el Justiciero). During the 19th century, while Spain was ruled by the Bourbon monarchy, her tomb was provided with the following inscription in Latin:

CHRISTO OPTIMO MAXIMO SACRUM. DIVA BLANCA HISPANIARUM REGINA, PATRE BORBONEO , EX INCLITA FRANCORUM REGUM PROSAPIA, MORIBUS ET CORPORE VENUSTISSIMA FUIT; SED PRAEVALENTE PELLICE OCCUBVIT IUSSU PETRI MARITI CRUDELIS ANNO SALUTIS MCCCLXI. AETATIS VERO SUAE XXVSacred to Christ the best and greatest. Blessed Blanche, Queen of Spain, of Bourbon father, from the renowned lineage of the Kings of France, was lovely in manners and body; but, his concubine being favored over her, she lay down here by order of her husband Peter the Cruel in the year of salvation 1361 at the age of 25.However, whether Peter did have her assassinated is a controversial claim. Zuñiga who amended Ayala's chronicles notes that partisans of the king called it a natural death. Others question such events, since she did not die in Jeréz, but in Medina Sidonia as per contemporary accounts. Also different versions of Ayala's chronicles make a different statement that she was poisoned by herbs (le fuero dadas yerbas) This latter statement was also repeated by Juan de Mariana in his historyIt is not surprising that the history of Peter was rewritten in later years. Male descendants of King Henry II, the bastard half-brother of King Peter, and his slayer, would end up marrying female descendants of Peter. Henry III, who was grandson of Henry II, would marry Catherine of Lancaster, the daughter of John of Gaunt, the Duke of Lancaster, and Constance of Castile, daughter of Peter. Thus subsequent descendants of the joined lines would try to ameliorate the iniquity of Peter chronicled by the faction of Henry II. Bourbon rulers had a stake in sanctifying the image of Blanche, a distant member of their ancestral lineage.

Ancestry
Passage 3:
Isabella of Bourbon
Isabella of Bourbon, Countess of Charolais (c. 1434 – 25 September 1465) was the second wife of Charles the Bold, Count of Charolais and future Duke of Burgundy. She was a daughter of Charles I, Duke of Bourbon and Agnes of Burgundy, and the mother of  Mary of Burgundy, heiress of Burgundy.

Life
Not much is known about Isabella's life. She was the daughter of the reigning Duke of Bourbon, and his Burgundian wife, Agnes, daughter of John the Fearless, the powerful Duke of Burgundy.
Although her father was politically opposed to his brother-in-law, Philip the Good, he betrothed Isabella to Charles the Bold, only legitimate son and heir of Burgundy as a condition of truce. She married Charles on 30 October 1454 at Lille, France, and they were reportedly very much in love, perhaps because of (or causing) her husband's faithfulness.In 1459, Isabella stood godmother to Joachim, the short-lived son of the refugee Dauphin of France and his second wife, Charlotte of Savoy. Upon his succession to the throne of France, the Dauphin abandoned his wife in Burgundy, leaving the young Queen Charlotte dependent on Isabella's aid.
After several months of illness, Isabella died of tuberculosis in Antwerp aged 31.

Tomb
Isabella's early death meant that she had little significance or influence during her lifetime, but in death she became a symbol of the power of the Dukes of Burgundy, which would later be inherited by her only daughter Mary. As the duke's second marriage failed to produce a son, Mary was heiress to the duchy, and her marriage to a Habsburg had major repercussions for centuries.

Isabella's funeral monument was built in the church of St. Michael's Abbey, Antwerp in 1476. It was decorated with 24 brass copper alloy statuettes of noblemen and women standing in niches, now known as 'weepers' or 'mourners', placed above a bronze effigy of Isabella. Art historians generally attributed the carvings to Jan Borman the Younger and the castings to Renier van Thienen. The mourners clothes are of an earlier fashion than Isabella's, probably because the mourners were copied from older tombs.
The statues have been on display in the Rijksmuseum since 1887. The rest of the tomb, with the statue of Isabella, are in Antwerp cathedral. Nothing more of the tomb furnishings survives.

Ancestry
Passage 4:
Tahira Wasti
Tahira Wasti (Punjabi, Urdu: طاہرہ واسطی) (1944 – March 11, 2012) was a well-known Pakistani writer and television actress. She is best known for portrayal of Isabella of Castile in the TV drama Shaheen.

Early life
Tahira was born in 1944 at Sargodha, Punjab, (British India) now in Pakistan. She received her early education from Sargodha and later she moved to Lahore for higher education then Karachi.

Career
Tahira Wasti started her career with writing articles in a magazine at the age of 16 and she also worked as an English newscaster on PTV News in 1964. Tahira started working at Pakistan Television Corporation in 1968 by acting in a TV drama serial Jaib Katra based on a novel by Saadat Hasan Manto. She appeared in a number of TV dramas from 1968 until the 1990s, most of them have become classics of PTV such as Kashkol, Jaangloos and Daldal. Her prominent personality made her famous for playing regal roles suitable for representing royal, feudal or upper-class families, as in TV plays like Tipu Sultan: The Tiger Lord, Shaheen and Aakhri Chatan.She also wrote plays for television and showed special interest in science fiction.

Personal life
She was the wife of TV actor and English language newscaster Rizwan Wasti and was mother of TV actress Laila Wasti. Maria Wasti a famous TV actress is her niece.

Illness and death
Tahira had developed heart ailments, depression because of her husband's death and diabetes. She died of natural causes on March 11, 2012, in Karachi, at the age of 68.

Filmography
Television series
Shama
Aakhri Chatan
Afshan
Daldal
Fishaar
Jaib Katra - 1968
Jaangloos
Pyas - 1989
Kashkol - 1990s
Shaheen
Raat
Andhera Ujala
Tipu Sultan: The Tiger Lord
Harjai
Fanooni Lateefay
Dil, Diya, Dehleez
Maamta
Shanakht
Moorat
Doraha
Raat Gaye
StarNite
Deewana
Harjaee
Aakhri Chatan
Aawazain
Chand Grehan
Dil Ki Dehleez Par
Nadan Nadia
Khaleej
Shaam Se Pehlay (PTV drama serial)
Noori Jam Tamachi
Heer Waris Shah (PTV drama serial)
Bushra Bushra
Damad House
Parsa
Pukaar

Telefilm
Operation Dwarka 1965
Uss Ki Biwi (a telefilm)
Karwat

Film
Kyun Tum Say Itna Pyar Hai

As a writer
Deemak (Long play)
Parsa (screenplay writer)
Hazaron Saal (co-writer)

Honour
In 2021 on August 16 the Government of Pakistan named a street and intersection after her in Lahore.

Awards and nominations
Passage 5:
Bonne of Bourbon
Bonne of Bourbon (1341 – 19 January 1402) was a Countess of Savoy by marriage to Amadeus VI of Savoy. She served as regent of Savoy during the absence of her spouse from 1366 to 1367, with her son in 1383, and finally during the minority of her grandson Amadeus VIII, Duke of Savoy in 1391–1395.

Biography
Bonne was the daughter of Peter I, Duke of Bourbon, and Isabella of Valois. She was engaged to Amadeus VI, Count of Savoy as part of the Treaty of Paris (1355), which included a dowry of three thousand florins per year.  She married Amadeus in September 1355 in Paris.  Immediately after their wedding, her husband had to return to his army, still engaged in the Hundred Years' War.

First regency
In 1366, when her husband left on a crusade to Bulgaria, he named her as regent of Savoy for the duration of his absence, to be advised by his council.  In 1367, James, lord of Piedmont, a cousin of Amadeus, died.  There was a dispute over his inheritance between his eldest son, Philip and his widow, Margaret of Beaujeu, representing the interests of her young sons, Amadeus and Louis.  Bonne, acting as regent, was only able to keep them from open war.  She was not able to settle the dispute, and Philip had to go to Amadeus in Venice to try to get resolution.She greatly enjoyed the Alpine mountain lakes of Savoy, and tried to ensure the castles she stayed in had good views of them.  In 1371, she oversaw the building of the chateau at Ripaille, seeking to build a manor that would more easily accommodate the larger court of the Count.  The new chateau had large windows overlooking Lake Geneva.  She was a great patron of music, and was known for her skill on the harp.In July 1382, funds were running low for her husband's ongoing wars in Italy, so she sold some of her jewelry for more than 400 florins to help him re-equip.

Second regency
In 1383, when her husband, Amadeus VI, died, he left a will granting his wife power over the government of Savoy despite their son, Amadeus VII, being in his early twenties. With the support of the Council, led by Louis de Cossonay and composed of several of her allies, such as Otton de Grandson, Bonne governed Savoy in her son's name. According to Max Bruchet, one of the fears of the Council in those days was the growing influence of French princes over Savoy: the Duke of Berry had married his daughter to Amadeus VII and his grandson, Amadeus VIII, would one day rule Savoy. The young Amadeus was also betrothed to Mary, the daughter of Philip II, the Duke of Burgundy. Both princes had been younger brothers of Charles V, the King of France, and were now acting as regents for their nephew, Charles VI.

Third regency
When Amadeus VII died of tetanus in 1391, and Bonne became regent. Her influence over Savoy came to an end when Amadeus VII's doctor (widely seen to have been responsible for the Count's death) accused the Countess of ordering her son's death in 1395. The Dukes of Berry and Burgundy also accused several members of the Count's Council of being complicit in the murder and Bonne was relieved of the regency and of caring for her grandson, the new Count Amadeus VIII.
Bonne died at the Château de Mâcon.

Issue
She and Amadeus had three children:

A daughter, born 1358, who  died after a few weeks
Amadeus VII of Savoy (March 1360 – November 1, 1391). He married Bonne of Berry (1365–1435), daughter of Duke John of Berry and a niece of Bonne of Bourbon.
Louis of Savoy, born late 1364, died before the end of the year

Ancestry
Passage 6:
Mathilde of Bourbon
Mathilde of Bourbon (French: Mahaut de Bourbon; c. 1165/69 – 18 June 1228) was a French noblewoman who was the ruling Lady of Bourbon from 1171 until her death.

Life
Mathilde was the only child of Archambault of Bourbon and his wife Alix (or Adelaide) of Burgundy (daughter of Odo II).  She was born in the second half of the 1160s.
Her father, the heir apparent of Bourbon, died in 1169, without ever inheriting the lordship.  Her grandfather, Archambault VII, died in 1171.  Mathilde, as his only surviving grandchild, succeeded him.
Before 1183, she married Gaucher IV of Vienne, Lord of Salins.  After he returned from the Third Crusade, they frequently quarreled.  In the end, he became violent and had her locked up.: p. 117   She fled to her grandmother's estate in Champagne: p. 217   During her escape, she allegedly also used violence,: p. 117  and for this she was excommunicated by Archbishop Henri de Sully of Bourges.  After she arrived in Champagne, she asked Pope Celestine III for a divorce from her husband, arguing that Gaucher IV and she were close relatives and that the marriage therefore had been inadmissible.  The Pope tasked the bishops of Autun and Troyes and the abbot of Monthiers-en-Argonne with investigating her claim.  These men found that Mathilde and her husband were third cousins, as they were both great-great-grandchildren of William II, Count of Burgundy, and that, therefore, her claim that they were too closely related was justified.  The pope granted the divorce, and also lifted the excommunication.
In September 1196, only a few months after her divorce, she married Lord Guy II of Dampierre.  Thus, the Bourbonnais fell to the House of Dampierre.  This marriage lasted 20 years: he died in 1216.
Mathilde died twelve years after her husband.  After her death, Margaret, her daughter from her first marriage claimed the Lordship of Bourbon.  Guy II had initially recognized Margaret as heir of Bourbon, however, he later claimed the Lordship for his oldest son, Archambault VIII.  In the end, Archambault prevailed.

Marriages and issue
Mathilde married Gaucher IV of Vienne, Lord of Salins.  Together, they had one daughter:

Margaret of Vienne (c. 1190/95 – c. 1259), married William III of Forcalquier, later she married Joceran, Lord of BrancionMathilde's second husband was Guy II of Dampierre.  With him, she had:

Archambaud VIII (1189–1242), Lord of Bourbon
William II (1196–1231), married Margaret II, Countess of Flanders and Hainaut (d. 1280), a daughter of Latin Emperor Baldwin I of Constantinople
Philippe (d. 1223), married in 1205 to Guigues IV, Count of Forez (d. 1241)
Guy of Saint Just (d. 22 March 1275)
Marie, married 1201 to Hervé of Vierzon, later married 1220 to Henry I of Sully
Matilde, married Guigues V of Forez

Sources
Theodore Evergates: The aristocracy in the county of Champagne, 1100–1300, University of Pennsylvania Press, Philadelphia, 2007, ISBN 978-0-8122-4019-1, pp. 117, 217, 343 (Partially online).
Devailly, Guy (1973). Le Berry du X siecle au milieu du XIII (in French). Mouton & Co.
Passage 7:
Charles I, Duke of Bourbon
Charles de Bourbon (1401 – 4 December 1456) was the oldest son of John I, Duke of Bourbon and Marie, Duchess of Auvergne.

Biography
Charles was Count of Clermont-en-Beauvaisis from 1424, and Duke of Bourbon and Auvergne from 1434 to his death, although due to the imprisonment of his father after the Battle of Agincourt, he acquired control of the duchy more than eighteen years before his father's death.In 1425, Charles renewed his earlier betrothal by marrying Agnes of Burgundy (1407–1476), daughter of John the Fearless.Charles served with distinction in the Royal army during the Hundred Years' War, while nevertheless maintaining a truce with his brother-in-law and otherwise enemy, Philip III, Duke of Burgundy. Both dukes were reconciled and signed an alliance by 1440. He was present at the coronation of Charles VII where he fulfilled the function of a peer and conferred knighthood.Despite this service, he took part in the "Praguerie" (a revolt by the French nobles against Charles VII) in 1439–1440. When the revolt collapsed, he was forced to beg for mercy from the King, and was stripped of some of his lands. He died on his estates at Château de Moulins in 1456.

Children
Charles and Agnes had eleven children:

John of Bourbon (1426–1488), Duke of Bourbon
Marie de Bourbon (1428–1448), married in 1444 John II, Duke of Lorraine
Philip of Bourbon (1430–1440), Lord of Beaujeu
Charles of Bourbon (Château de Moulins 1433–1488, Lyon), Cardinal and Archbishop of Lyon and Duke of Bourbon
Isabella of Bourbon (1434–1465), married Charles, Duke of Burgundy
Peter of Bourbon, (1438–1503, Château de Moulins), Duke of Bourbon
Louis of Bourbon (1438 – August 30, 1482, murdered), Prince-Bishop of Liège
Margaret of Bourbon (February 5, 1439 – 1483, Château du Pont-Ains), married in Moulins on April 6, 1472, Philip II, Duke of Savoy
Catharine of Bourbon (Liège, 1440 – May 21, 1469, Nijmegen), married on December 28, 1463, in Bruges Adolf II, Duke of Guelders
Joanna of Bourbon (1442–1493, Brussels), married in Brussels in 1467 John II of Chalon, Prince of Orange
James of Bourbon (1445–1468, Bruges), unmarried.
Passage 8:
Kaya Alp
Kaya Alp (Ottoman Turkish: قایا الپ, lit. 'Brave Rock') was, according to Ottoman tradition, the son of Kızıl Buğa or Basuk and the father of Suleyman Shah. He was the grandfather of Ertuğrul Ghazi, the father of the founder of the Ottoman Empire, Osman I. He was also famously known for being the successing name of Ertokus Bey’s son Kaya Alp. He was a descendant of the ancestor of his tribe, Kayı son of Gun son of Oghuz Khagan, the legendary progenitor of the Oghuz Turks.
Passage 9:
Isabella of France, Dauphine of Viennois
Isabella of France and Burgundy (1312 – April 1348) was the daughter of Philip V of France and Joan II, Countess of Burgundy.

Life
When Isabella was only two years old, her mother was placed under house arrest because it was thought she was having love affairs. Joan was released the following year since Isabella's father, Philip refused to divorce her. Her aunt, Blanche of Burgundy had been imprisoned in the fortress of Château Gaillard in 1314 along with Isabella's other aunt, Margaret of Burgundy.
In 1316, her father became the King of France. The same year, her marriage with Guigues VIII of Viennois was contracted. In 1322, however, her young father died, which devastated the family. Although Isabella was still in grief, she was married in 1323, when she was just 11 years old. Her husband, Guigues, was killed while besieging the Savoyard castle of La Perrière in 1333, and was succeeded by his brother Humbert II.In 1335, Isabella married John III, Lord of Faucogney. She was widowed a second a time as John died in 1345, this marriage was childless. Isabella herself died of the bubonic plague (Black Death) in April 1348.
Passage 10:
Beatrice of Bourbon, Queen of Bohemia
Beatrice of Bourbon (1320 – 23 December 1383) was a French noblewoman. A member of the House of Bourbon, she was by marriage Queen of Bohemia and Countess of Luxembourg.
She was the youngest daughter of Louis I, Duke of Bourbon, and Mary of Avesnes.

Life
Marriage
On 28 September 1330, Queen Elisabeth of Bohemia, wife of King John of Bohemia, died:

"The news was that the King, distraught for the loss of his wife manifested his feelings using mourning clothes, after all, they were married for twenty years, and yet remained completely himself with a brief time, this was in Bohemia, the other side used to be mostly in their county or elsewhere, where he discussed the matter."Despite the fact that John and Elisabeth became estranged during the last years of their marriage, the king remained a widower for the next four years. The French King Philip VI wanted to tie John more closely with France, and he suggested to the Bohemian king a second marriage. The proposed bride was Beatrice, youngest daughter of the Duke of Bourbon and member of a cadet branch of the House of Capet. Beatrice was already betrothed, however, to Philip, the second son of Philip I, Prince of Taranto, as of 29 May 1321. The engagement was broken soon after the marriage negotiations with Bohemia started.
The marriage of King John of Bohemia and Beatrice of Bourbon was solemnized in the Château de Vincennes in December 1334, at which time she was fourteen years old. But because the two were related in a prohibited degree (they were second cousins through their common descent from Henry V, Count of Luxembourg, and his wife Margaret of Bar), Pope Benedict XII had to give dispensation for the marriage, which was granted in Avignon on 9 January 1335 at the request of Philip VI.
The marriage contract stipulated that if a son was born from the marriage, the County of Luxembourg (King John's paternal heritage), as well as lands belonging to it, would go to him. King John's sons from his first marriage, Charles and John Henry, were not informed of the contents of the marriage contract, but both princes were compelled to accept it along with the knights and citizens of Luxembourg in August 1335.

Life in Bohemia
Beatrice arrived in Bohemia on 2 January 1336:

"...our father came to Bohemia and brought him a wife, named Beatrix, daughter of the Duke of Bourbon and relative of the King of the Frenchs..."In the Bohemian court, Beatrice took care of the wife of her oldest stepson Charles, Blanche of Valois. Both women could easily communicate in French. The Queen soon felt ill-at-ease in Prague, where she was always compared unfavorably with the Margravine of Moravia (Blanche's title as wife of the Bohemian heir). Also, the Czech people were offended by her coldness, insolence and aversion to learning their language.
The new Queen of Bohemia and Countess of Luxembourg brought with her an annual income of 4,000 livres extracted from her father's County of Clermont. On 25 February 1337, Beatrice gave birth in Prague to her only child, a son named Wenceslaus after the holy patron of the Přemyslid dynasty; probably calling her son with this name either the queen or her husband tried to gain the favor of the Bohemians. There is some indirect evidence that this was the first caesarean section that was survived by both the mother and child. However, the relationship between Beatrice and her new subjects remained estranged: her coronation as Queen of Bohemia in St. Vitus Cathedral three months later, on 18 May, was an event of spectacular indifference  from the citizens of Prague.
Shortly after her coronation, in June 1337, Beatrice left Bohemia leaving her son behind, and went to live in Luxembourg. After this, she rarely visited the Bohemian Kingdom.

Later Years
On 26 August 1346 King John was killed in the Battle of Crécy and Beatrice ceased to be queen consort. Her stepson, now King Charles of Bohemia, confirmed the provisions of her marriage contract. Beatrice, now Dowager Queen of Bohemia, received in perpetuity lands in the County of Hainaut, the rent of 4,000 livres and the towns of Arlon, Marville and Damvillers (where she settled her residence) as her widow's estate. These revenues were used not only for their own needs, but also for the education of her son. King Charles also left her all the movable property and income from the mines in Kutná Hora. In addition, when her father Duke Louis I of Bourbon died in 1342, she received the sum of 1,000 livres, which was secured from the town of Creil.
Around 1347, Beatrice married for a second time to Eudes II, Lord of Grancey, (then a widower) at her state of Damvillers. Despite her new marriage, she retained the title of Queen of Bohemia. The couple had no children. Soon after her second marriage, she arranged the betrothal of her son Wenceslaus with the widowed Joanna, Duchess of Brabant, daughter and heiress of John III, Duke of Brabant, who was fifteen years older than he was. The marriage took place in Damvillers four years later, on 17 May 1351.
Despite all the grants of land and money given to Beatrice, the Bohemian king delayed the investiture of his young half-brother Wenceslaus as Count of Luxembourg. In fact, he held on to the title until 1353, when Wenceslaus finally obtained sovereignty over the County.  One year later (13 March 1354) the County was elevated to the rank of a Duchy.
Beatrice died on 27 December 1383, having outlived her son (for only sixteen days) and all her stepchildren. She was buried in the now-demolished church of the Couvent des Jacobins in Paris - her effigy is now in the Basilica of St Denis. Her second husband survived her by six years.