Passage 1:
Pontifical Academy of Arcadia
The Accademia degli Arcadi or Accademia dell'Arcadia, "Academy of Arcadia" or "Academy of the Arcadians", was an Italian literary academy founded in Rome in 1690. The full Italian official name was Pontificia Accademia degli Arcadi.

History
Foundation
The beginnings of the Accademia degli Arcadi date to February 1656, when a literary circle formed under the patronage of Queen Christina of Sweden, who had abdicated the Swedish crown in 1654, converted to Catholicism, and taken up her residence in Rome, where she spent much of the rest of her life. There she became a significant patron of music and opera, with composers including Alessandro Scarlatti, Alessandro Stradella and Arcangelo Corelli dedicating works to her. After her death in 1689, the academy was established in her memory and elected her as its symbolic head (basilissa, the Greek term for 'Queen'). The Academy lasted for the next two hundred years, remaining a leading cultural institution into the 20th century.
The Accademia degli Arcadi was so-called because its principal intention was to reform the diction of Italian poetry, which the founders believed had become corrupt through over-indulgence in the ornamentation of the baroque style, under the inspiration of pastoral literature, the conventions of which imagined the life of shepherds, originally supposed to have lived in Arcadia in the golden age, divinely inspired in poetry by the Muses, Apollo, Hermes and Pan. The Academy chose as its emblem the pipe of Pan with its seven unequal reeds.
The fourteen founders selected as the first Custode di Arcadia or president of the academy, Giovanni Mario Crescimbeni who was the author of a history of Italian poetry and of various literary works. The Arcadians resolved to return to the fields of truth, always singing of subjects of pastoral simplicity and drawing their inspiration from Greco-Roman bucolic poetry. The ideal parameters for the artistic work were simplicity and a sense of measure and beauty. Common to all the poets was the desire to oppose the poetry of the Marinists, and return to classic poetry, embracing also the recent rationalist influence of Descartes. Norms and rituals of the academy took their cue from classic and pastoral mythology, as in the custom of assuming 'pastoral' names (Crescimbeni, for example, chose that of 'Alfesibeo Cario'). The fourteen founder members included the librettist Silvio Stampiglia and the poet Vincenzo Leonio.
The first solemn gathering of the Arcadians was held on the Janiculum hill, in a wood belonging to the Reformed Minorites, on 5 October 1690.

Orsini Gardens & Beyond
In 1692, the meetings were transferred to the gardens of Duke Orsini on the Esquiline hill; in 1696, to the Farnese Gardens on the Palatine. Finally, the generosity of John V of Portugal, one of its members under the name of Arete Melleo, enabled the society to secure (1723) on the Janiculum a site known as the Bosco Parrasio or (Parrasian Grove). Here they held their meetings on summer days, in winter moving to the Teatro degli Arcadi in the Palazzo Salviati. In 1696 the Accademia admitted seven musicians including Giovanni Bononcini.
While the academy was still on the Palatine, its Statuto or Constitution was drawn up. This constitution (the work of co-founder Gian Vincenzo Gravina) was modelled on the ancient Roman laws of the 'Twelve Tables', and was engraved on marble. Differing tendencies soon asserted themselves, following the ideas of the two founders: that of Gravina stood in the tradition of Homer and Dante, while that of Crescimbeni was more influenced by Petrarch. Because of these differences, Gravina left to found the Accademia dei Quirini in 1711. Despite this loss, Arcadia retained its vigour in the following years, and created colonies in many cities of Italy. Many noblemen, ecclesiastics, and artists held membership in it to be an honour, and very soon it numbered 1,300. Much of what they produced, however, was either mediocre or pretentious (an example is Saverio Bettinelli's disparagement of Dante), although the Academy did receive some endorsement for its attack on the redundant Rococo style, then dominant in art and literature.
The celebrated opera librettist Pietro Metastasio (1698–1782) although he had his own differences with Arcadia, was a student of Gravina's, and a leading light of the academy's second generation. His works, of which the best remembered might be Il Re Pastore because of its setting by Mozart, may represent the closest thing to a justification of the program that Arcadia achieved.
In 1795, the academy admitted the Italian Diodata Saluzzo Roero, as one of its first female members, but some evidence does exist for earlier female members. In the 17th century, the poet Maria Antonia Scalera Stellini was elected a member, and the 1721 edition of the Academy's publication included work by Caterina Imperiale Lercari Pallavicini.

Anti-Arcadian Reaction
A violent anti-Arcadian reaction soon developed, and, starting from the early 19th century, Arcadianism began to be regarded as a late and unconvincing expression of the ancien régime. After the end of the French Revolution, the Academy strove to renew itself in accord with the spirit of the times, without sacrificing its traditional system of sylvan associations and pastoral names. The Academy no longer represented a literary school, but a general interest in the classics and figures like Dante came to be greatly honoured by its members. Furthermore, the Academy's field of endeavour was enlarged to include many branches of study, including history and archaeology. The new Arcadian revival was marked by the foundation (1819) of the Giornale Arcadico. In 1925 the Academy was renamed to become the Arcadia – Accademia Letteraria Italiana, a historical institute.

Legacy
The Accademia degli Arcadi counted among its members some of the principal literary men and women of the time, including Carlo Alessandro Guidi, Petronilla Paolini Massimi, Benedetto Menzini, librettist Pietro Metastasio, Francesco Redi Paolo Rolli, and linguist Clotilde Tambroni, among others. The famous composer George Frideric Handel is known to have often attended the meetings and symposia of the Arcadians when studying in Italy, under the patronage of Ruspoli, a leading member of the Academy. There is an interesting account of the Academy's history and program in Goethe's 'Italian Journey'.
The archives of the academy are currently housed in the Biblioteca Angelica, next to the church of Sant'Agostino in Rome. The paintings are housed in the Palazzo Braschi.
Atti e memorie dell'Accademia letteraria italiana was published by the academy.

Notes
Passage 2:
Arcadia Aegypti
Arcadia or Arcadia Aegypti was a Late Roman province in northern Egypt. It was named for one of the reigning Augusti of the Roman Empire, Arcadius (r. 383–408) of the Theodosian dynasty when it was created in the late 4th century. Its capital was Oxyrhynchus and its territory encompassed the Arsinoite nome and the  "Heptanomia" ("seven nomes") region.

History
It was created between 386 and ca. 395 out of the province of Augustamnica and most of the historical region known as "Heptanomis" ("seven nomes"), except for Hermopolis, which belonged to the Thebaid.In the Notitia Dignitatum, Arcadia forms one of six provinces of the Diocese of Egypt, under a governor with the low rank of praeses.By 636, the praeses governor had been replaced by a governor with the rank of dux.

Episcopal sees
Ancient episcopal sees in the Roman province of Arcadia Aegypti, listed in the Annuario Pontificio as titular sees:
Passage 3:
The Wonderful World of Captain Kuhio
The Wonderful World of Captain Kuhio (クヒオ大佐, Kuhio Taisa, lit. "Captain Kuhio") is a 2009 Japanese comedy-crime film, directed by Daihachi Yoshida, based on Kazumasa Yoshida's 2006 biographical novel, Kekkon Sagishi Kuhio Taisa (lit. "Marriage swindler Captain Kuhio"), that focuses on a real-life marriage swindler, who conned over 100 million yen (US$1.2 million) from a number of women between the 1970s and the 1990s.The film was released in Japan on 10 October 2009.

Cast
Masato Sakai - Captain Kuhio
Yasuko Matsuyuki - Shinobu Nagano
Hikari Mitsushima - Haru Yasuoka
Yuko Nakamura - Michiko Sudo
Hirofumi Arai - Tatsuya Nagano
Kazuya Kojima - Koichi Takahashi
Sakura Ando - Rika Kinoshita
Masaaki Uchino - Chief Fujiwara
Kanji Furutachi - Shigeru Kuroda
Reila Aphrodite
Sei Ando

Awards
At the 31st Yokohama Film Festival
Best Actor – Masato Sakai
Best Supporting Actress – Sakura Ando
Passage 4:
Arcadia–Bienville Parish Airport
Arcadia–Bienville Parish Airport (FAA LID: 5F0) is a public-use airport located two nautical miles (2.3 mi, 3.7 km) southwest of the central business district of Arcadia, in Bienville Parish, Louisiana, United States. It is owned by the City of Arcadia.

Facilities and aircraft
Arcadia–Bienville Parish Airport covers an area of 20 acres (8.1 ha) at an elevation of 440 feet (134 m) above mean sea level. It has one runway designated 14/32 with an asphalt surface measuring 3,000 by 75 feet (914 x 23 m).For the 12-month period ending June 10, 2010, the airport had 9,300 general aviation aircraft operations, an average of 25 per day. At that time there were five single-engine aircraft based at this airport.
Passage 5:
Italia-Germania 4-3
Italia-Germania 4-3 is a 1990 Italian comedy film directed by Andrea Barzini. The title is inspired by the semi-finals of the 1970 FIFA World Cup.

Cast
Massimo Ghini as Federico
Giuseppe Cederna as  Antonio
Fabrizio Bentivoglio as  Francesco
Nancy Brilli as  Giulia
Emanuela Pacotto as  Martina
Passage 6:
Barony of Arcadia
The Barony of Arcadia was a medieval Frankish fiefdom of the Principality of Achaea, located on the western coast of the Peloponnese peninsula in Greece, and centred on the town of Arcadia (Greek: Ὰρκαδία; French: l'Arcadie; Italian: Arc[h]adia), ancient and modern Kyparissia.

History
The Barony of Arcadia was not one of the original twelve secular baronies of the Principality. Initially, Arcadia—the medieval name of Kyparissia on the western coast of Messenia—formed part of the princely domain of the Villehardouin family. It was created as a separate barony by Prince William II of Villehardouin shortly after the Byzantine reconquest of Constantinople in 1261, to recompense Vilain of Aulnay, one of the Frankish lords of the Latin Empire of Constantinople who sought refuge in Achaea.After Vilain's death in 1269 it was divided between his sons, Erard and Geoffrey. Erard disappears after 1279, when he was captured by the Byzantines, but Geoffrey did not manage to reclaim his brother's portion until 1293, due to the obstructions of the Angevin baillis, who sequestered the domain. He was succeeded sometime after 1297 by Vilain II, who was in turn succeeded by his two children, Erard II and Agnes. Erard II died some time before 1338, but Peter dalle Carceri, Triarch of Negroponte, is already attested as lord of half the barony in 1324, and it is usually assumed that Erard II left his half of the barony to his widow, Balzana Gozzadini, who took Peter as a second husband. Balzana died soon after. Agnes married in 1324 Stephen Le Maure ("The Moor"), Lord of Saint-Sauveur and Aetos, and had a son, Erard III, who by 1344 managed to reunite the barony, and was named marshal of Achaea in 1345. In 1348, a Burgundian knight, Louis of Chafor, with some companions, managed to take over the castle of Arcadia and hold Erard's wife and children captive until Erard paid a large ransom. Erard was succeeded in 1388 by one of his daughters, who married Andronikos Asanes Zaccaria, and the barony became part of the Zaccaria domain. The Zaccaria claim was disputed by Erard Laskaris, a grandson or nephew of Erard III, but without success; Laskaris died childless in 1409.Arcadia was the last holdout of the Principality. After the conquest of Patras and Chalandritsa by the Byzantines of the Despotate of the Morea in 1429–30, which signalled the de facto end of the Principality, the last Prince, Centurione II Zaccaria, retained Arcadia as his personal fief, but after his death in 1432, his son-in-law, Despot Thomas Palaiologos, annexed it and imprisoned Centurione's widow, who died in prison.

Barons
After A. Bon:
Vilain I of Aulnay, 1262–1269
Erard I of Aulnay, 1269–1279, and his brother
Geoffrey of Aulnay, 1269–1297
Vilain II of Aulnay, 1297–unknown
Erard II of Aulnay, unknown–before 1338 (1324?), and his sister
Agnes of Aulnay with her husband Stephen Le Maure (married 1324), unknown–after 1330
Balzana Gozzadini, widow of Erard II, with Peter dalle Carceri, ca. 1338 (1324?)
Erard III Le Maure, after 1330–1388
Daughter of Erard III with her husband Andronikos Asanes Zaccaria, 1388–1401
Erard IV Zaccaria, 1401
Centurione II Zaccaria, 1401–1432
Passage 7:
Berlin Sonnenallee station
Sonnenallee is a railway station in the Neukölln district of Berlin. It is served by the S-Bahn lines S41 and S42 and is located at the southeastern end of the major street of the same name, about which a film was produced in 1999.

Notable places nearby
Estrel Hotel
Passage 8:
Prince of Arcadia
Prince of Arcadia is a 1933 British musical comedy film directed by Hanns Schwarz and starring Carl Brisson, Margot Grahame, Ida Lupino and Peter Gawthorne. The screenplay concerns a Ruritanian Prince who is due to marry a princess with acting ambitions, but has fallen in love with another woman. It is a remake of the 1932 German film The Prince of Arcadia.
It was shot at Walton Studios, with sets designed by the art director Andrew Mazzei.

Cast
Carl Brisson as Prince Peter
Margot Grahame as Mirana
Ida Lupino as The Princess
Annie Esmond as The Queen
Peter Gawthorne as Equerry
C. Denier Warren as Detective

See also
The Prince of Arcadia (1932)
Passage 9:
3Below: Tales of Arcadia
3Below: Tales of Arcadia (or simply 3Below) is an American computer-animated science fantasy television series produced by DreamWorks Animation, and is the second installment of Guillermo del Toro's Tales of Arcadia trilogy.The series was announced on December 12, 2017 by Netflix and DreamWorks. On October 5, 2018, the premiere date was announced and the first teaser was released. The 13-episode first season was released on December 21, 2018 on Netflix. The series concluded with the release of the second season on July 12, 2019.A third and final installment of Tales of Arcadia, titled Wizards, was released on August 7, 2020. The full-length feature film, Trollhunters: Rise of the Titans was released on Netflix on July 21, 2021.

Plot
Two royal extraterrestrial siblings, Crown Princess Aja and Crown Prince Krel of House Tarron, their doglike pet named Luug, and their bodyguard, Varvatos Vex, escape from their home planet of Akiridion-5 after a coup and crash-land on Earth, specifically in the city of Arcadia Oaks, California. There, the aliens adjust to human culture and try to fix their spaceship (as well as to restore their nearly-dead parents King Fialkov and Queen Coranda) to return and take back Akiridion-5, which is being taken over by an evil dictator known as General Val Morando, who has already sent out a team of intergalactic bounty hunters, called the Zeron Brotherhood, to find and catch the alien prince and princess.After investigating a way to stop Val Morando and find the hiding place of Aja and Krel, Zadra, one of the noble protectors of the royals from Akiridion-5, arrives on Earth. Meanwhile, after learning of his involvement in Morando's coup, Aja and Krel decide to exile Vex. During his exile, Vex is captured by the Zeron Brotherhood and imprisoned at a bounty hunter outpost located on Earth's moon. In Season 2, Aja and Krel learn of his capture and launch a rescue mission. Soon after the rescue, however the gang discovers that Morando is heading for Earth. After successfully defeating him, Aja (now Queen), Vex, Zadra, Luug and the rest finally return home, joined by Eli, who has volunteered to be Earth's ambassador on Akiridion 5. Crown Prince Krel decides that Earth has become his home, and decides to stay with his new human best friends.

Voice cast
Princess Aja and Crown Prince Krel also appeared in the Trollhunters episodes "In Good Hands", and "The Eternal Knight Pt. 1" in their borrowed human forms.

Episodes
Season 1 (2018)
Season 2 (2019)
Reception
Critical response
The series currently holds a 100% on Rotten Tomatoes. It has been praised for its depiction of immigration through a sci-fi lens, with Dave Trumbore of Collider writing, "... the subtext here, which is hard to miss even for younger viewers, is that Aja, Krel, and Vex are stand-ins for immigrants, refugees, and "illegal aliens" ... the show is re-examining the actions of the anti-immigrant government agents and the aliens' allies alike."

Accolades
Passage 10:
Tamarack, Wisconsin
Arcadia is a town in Trempealeau County, Wisconsin, United States. The population was 3,737 at the 2020 census. The unincorporated communities of Dewey Corners, North Creek, and Tamarack are located in the town. The ghost towns of Cortland and Williamsburg were also located in the town.

Geography
According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of 119.0 square miles (308.3 km2), of which, 118.8 square miles (307.8 km2) of it is land and 0.2 square miles (0.5 km2) of it (0.17%) is water.

Demographics
As of the census of 2000, there were 1,555 people, 569 households, and 433 families residing in the town. The population density was 13.1 people per square mile (5.1/km2). There were 610 housing units at an average density of 5.1 per square mile (2.0/km2). The racial makeup of the town was 98.65% White, 0.19% Asian, 0.51% from other races, and 0.64% from two or more races. 1.29% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race.
There were 569 households, out of which 39.0% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 63.6% were married couples living together, 6.2% had a female householder with no husband present, and 23.9% were non-families. 19.2% of all households were made up of individuals, and 7.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.73 and the average family size was 3.16.
In the town, the population was spread out, with 28.2% under the age of 18, 6.8% from 18 to 24, 29.1% from 25 to 44, 24.4% from 45 to 64, and 11.6% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 38 years. For every 100 females, there were 112.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 112.0 males.
The median income for a household in the town was $45,588, and the median income for a family was $50,511. Males had a median income of $30,208 versus $22,614 for females. The per capita income for the town was $20,421. About 6.4% of families and 8.6% of the population were below the poverty line, including 12.2% of those under age 18 and 13.9% of those age 65 or over.

Notable people
John C. Gaveney, Wisconsin State Senator and jurist, was born in the town
Anne Pellowski, the writer, educator and Kashubian-American activist, was born and raised on a farm in the Town of Arcadia