Passage 1:
Theodred II (Bishop of Elmham)
Theodred II was a medieval Bishop of Elmham.
The date of Theodred's consecration unknown, but the date of his death was sometime between 995 and 997.
Passage 2:
Albert Thompson (footballer, born 1912)
Albert Thompson (born 1912, date of death unknown) was a Welsh footballer.

Career
Thompson was born in Llanbradach, Wales, and joined Bradford Park Avenue from Barry Town in 1934. After making 11 appearances and scoring two goals in the league for Bradford, he joined York City in 1936. He was York City's top scorer for the 1936–37 season, with 28 goals. He joined Swansea Town in 1937, after making 29 appearances and scoring 28 goals for York. After making 4 appearances in the league for Swansea, he joined Wellington Town.


== Notes ==
Passage 3:
Harry Wainwright (footballer)
Harry Wainwright (born 1899; date of death unknown) was an English footballer.

Career
Wainwright played for Highfields before joining Port Vale as an amateur in December 1919. After making his debut in a 1–0 defeat at Barnsley on Boxing Day he signed as a professional the following month. He was unable to nail down a regular place however, and was released at the end of the season with just four appearances to his name.He returned to Highfields before moving on to Doncaster Rovers where he scored in their return to football following WW1, in the 2–1 defeat to Rotherham Town in the Midland League. He scored two more goals that season, and none the following season.He then went to Brodsworth Main, Frickley Colliery, Sheffield United, Boston Town, Scunthorpe & Lindsey United and Newark Town.

Career statistics
Source:
Passage 4:
Etan Boritzer
Etan Boritzer (born 1950) is an American writer of children’s literature who is best known for his book What is God? first published in 1989. His best selling What is? illustrated children's book series on character education and difficult subjects for children is a popular teaching guide for parents, teachers and child-life professionals.Boritzer gained national critical acclaim after What is God? was published in 1989 although the book has caused controversy from religious fundamentalists for its universalist views. The other current books in the What is? series include: What is Love?, What is Death?, What is Beautiful?, What is Funny?, What is Right?, What is Peace?, What is Money?, What is Dreaming?, What is a Friend?, What is True?, What is a Family?, and What is a Feeling? The series is now also translated into 15 languages.
Boritzer was first published in 1963 at the age of 13 when he wrote an essay in his English class at Wade Junior High School in the Bronx, New York on the assassination of John F. Kennedy. His essay was included in a special anthology by New York City public school children compiled and published by the New York City Department of Education.
Boritzer now lives in Venice, California and maintains his publishing office there also. He has helped numerous other authors to get published through How to Get Your Book Published! programs. Boritzer is also a yoga teacher who teaches regular classes locally and guest-teaches nationally. He is also recognized nationally as an erudite speaker on The Teachings of the Buddha.
Passage 5:
Bill Smith (footballer, born 1897)
William Thomas Smith (9 April 1897 – after 1924) was an English professional footballer.

Career
During his amateur career, Smith played in 17 finals, and captained the Third Army team in Germany when he was stationed in Koblenz after the armistice during the First World War. He started his professional career with Hull City in 1921. After making no appearances for the club, he joined Leadgate Park. He joined Durham City in 1921, making 33 league appearances in the club's first season in the Football League.He joined York City in the Midland League in July 1922, where he scored the club's first goal in that competition. He made 75 appearances for the club in the Midland League and five appearances in the FA Cup before joining Stockport County in 1925, where he made no league appearances.
Passage 6:
Ian Barry (director)
Ian Barry is an Australian director of film and TV.

Select credits
Waiting for Lucas (1973) (short)
Stone (1974) (editor only)
The Chain Reaction (1980)
Whose Baby? (1986) (mini-series)
Minnamurra (1989)
Bodysurfer (1989) (mini-series)
Ring of Scorpio (1990) (mini-series)
Crimebroker (1993)
Inferno (1998) (TV movie)
Miss Lettie and Me (2002) (TV movie)
Not Quite Hollywood: The Wild, Untold Story of Ozploitation! (2008) (documentary)
The Doctor Blake Mysteries (2013)
Passage 7:
P. Neelakantan
Palaniyaandi Neelakantan (2 October 1916 – 3 September 1992) was a Tamil film director, who was active for nearly four decades.

Life
He was born at Villupuram, Tamil Nadu. He graduated to movies from stage play. His play Naam Iruvar was brought by movie mogul Avichi Meiyappa Chettiar and made into a film in 1947. Then he wrote the dialogues for films like Vedala Ulagam in 1948. His directorial debut was with Oru Iravu in (1951), the dialogue for which was written by C. N. Annadurai. Two films that made him well-known are ALS productions Ambikapadi (1957) and Thirudadhe (1961). He also has directed movies in Kannada and Sinhalese Suneetha and Sujage Rahase. Neelakantan was mainly associated with creating M. G. Ramachandran's (MGR) movie persona. Between Chakravarthi Thirumagal in 1957 and Needhikku Thalaivanangu in 1976, Neelakantan directed altogether 17 of MGR's movies.

Filmography
Passage 8:
Peter Levin
Peter Levin is an American director of film, television and theatre.

Career
Since 1967, Levin has amassed a large number of credits directing episodic television and television films. Some of his television series credits include Love Is a Many Splendored Thing, James at 15, The Paper Chase, Family, Starsky & Hutch, Lou Grant, Fame, Cagney & Lacey, Law & Order and Judging Amy.Some of his television film credits include Rape and Marriage: The Rideout Case (1980), A Reason to Live (1985), Popeye Doyle (1986), A Killer Among Us (1990), Queen Sized (2008) and among other films. He directed "Heart in Hiding", written by his wife Audrey Davis Levin, for which she received an Emmy for Best Day Time Special in the 1970s.
Prior to becoming a director, Levin worked as an actor in several Broadway productions. He costarred with Susan Strasberg in "[The Diary of Ann Frank]" but had to leave the production when he was drafted into the Army. He trained at the Carnegie Mellon University. Eventually becoming a theatre director, he directed productions at the Long Wharf Theatre and the Pacific Resident Theatre Company. He also co-founded the off-off-Broadway Theatre [the Hardware Poets Playhouse] with his wife Audrey Davis Levin and was also an associate artist of The Interact Theatre Company.
Passage 9:
Nallavan Vazhvan
Nallavan Vazhvan (transl. The good man will live) is a 1961 Indian Tamil-language crime thriller film produced and directed by P. Neelakantan. The film stars M. G. Ramachandran and Rajasulochana. It revolves around a man who is sentenced to death on false charges, and escapes from prison to clear his name.
Nallavan Vazhvan is the 50th film for Ramachandran as an actor. The screenplay was written by C. N. Annadurai, from a story by Na. Pandurangan, and cinematography was handled by G. Durai. The film was released on 31 August 1961 and underperformed at the box office, with a theatrical run of 80 days.

Plot
Muthu, a convict sentenced to death on false charges of murder, escapes from prison. He will have to himself confuse the culprit, Nallasivam, the local personality, of the most well-to-do, above suspicion, a priori. During his escape, disguised as a shaman, Muthu leads an investigation, and finds that the matter rests on the indestructible support of some women. First of all, his young and beautiful Chandra (that he saved formerly, captivated in the hands of Nallasivam), of its mother and the one that he considers as his young sister Chenbagame. But the husband of the latter, the inspector of police, in charge of this case, Madhavan, friend, nevertheless, Muthu, convinced of his guilt, does not stop pursuing him. However, the hired men thrown by Nallasivam cross the region in search of the fugitive to kill him. In front of such threats, will Muthu manage to put, in time, the hand on the unique witness which could exonerate him?

Cast
Male castM. G. Ramachandran as Muthu
M. R. Radha as Nallasivam
M. N. Nambiar as Inspector Madhavan
D. Balasubramaniam as Nallasivam's clerk
S. Rama Rao as Makeup MeganathanFemale castRajasulochana as Chandra
E. V. Saroja as Chenbagame
Lakshmi Prabha as Muthu's mother
P. S. Seethalaksmi as the witness

Production
Nallavan Vazhvan was produced and directed by P. Neelakantan under Arasu Pictures. The screenplay was written by C. N. Annadurai, from a story by Na. Pandurangan. It was the 50th film for M. G. Ramachandran as an actor. Cinematography was handled by G. Durai.

Soundtrack
The soundtrack was composed by T. R. Pappa, with lyrics by M. K. Athmanathan and Vaali. This was the first Ramachandran film for which Vaali wrote lyrics. The team initially rejected the lyrics Vaali wrote for the song "Sirikindraal Indru Sirikindraal" and wanted A. Maruthakasi to write new lyrics, but Maruthakasi convinced the team to retain Vaali's lyrics. The song contains the lyrics "Udayasooriyan ethiril irundhal, ullai thamarai malaratho" (in front of the rising sun, the lotus of one's heart blooms), where the "rising sun" is a reference to the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam's election symbol.

Release and reception
Nallavan Vazhvan was released on 31 August 1961. Kanthan of Kalki negatively reviewed the film, saying one redeeming feature was its short runtime of 15,133 feet (4,613 m). The film underperformed at the box office and ran for 80 days in theatres.
Passage 10:
Thomas Scott (diver)
Thomas Scott (1907 - date of death unknown) was an English diver.

Boxing
He competed in the 10 metre platform at the 1930 British Empire Games for England.

Personal life
He was a police officer at the time of the 1930 Games.