Passage 1:
Friedrich von Berg
Friedrich Wilhelm Bernhard von Berg, also von Berg-Markienen, (20 November 1866 – 9 March 1939) was a German politician and chairman of the Secret Civil Cabinet of Kaiser Wilhelm II in 1918.

Biography
Friedrich von Berg was born on his family's estate of Markienen (today Markiny, Poland) to the Prussian Major Friedrich von Berg (1835-1888). After passing his Abitur, Berg joined the Prussian Army in 1885 and became the personal adjutant of Prince Friedrich Leopold of Prussia in 1888. He left service in 1892 and started to study law at the Universities of Breslau and Bonn, where he became a member of the Corps Borussia Bonn next to the later Kaiser Wilhelm II. After passing his exam, Berg worked at the local court of Bartenstein and in 1896 at Danzig. In 1899 he moved to Berlin, where he became an assessor. In 1903 he returned to East Prussia and worked as the head of the district administration (Landrat) of the Goldap district.In 1906 he became a member of the Geheimes Zivilkabinett (Secret Civil Cabinet), the Kaiser's personal office. In 1909 he became the Landeshauptmann of East Prussia and in 1916 he was promoted to Oberpräsident of the Province of East Prussia. On 16 January 1918, Berg became the chairman of the Kaiser's office. He opposed peace negotiations to end World War I as supposed by Chancellor Max von Baden and had to resign on 11 October 1918.He returned to his estate in East Prussia, where he was the President of the provincial diet (Provinziallandtag) in 1919 and the old-Prussian East Prussian Provincial Synod in 1920. The same year, he became the chairman of the German Nobility Association (Deutsche Adelsgenossenschaft) which he remained until 1932.From 1921 to 1927 Berg was the Chief Representative of the House of Hohenzollern in their negotiations over the family's personal property with the Weimar German government (Cf. Expropriation of the Princes in the Weimar Republic).Berg died in 1939 on his estate of Markienen.
Passage 2:
Lyon Cohen
Lyon Cohen (born Yehuda Leib Cohen; May 11, 1868 – August 17, 1937) was a Polish-born Canadian businessman and a philanthropist. He was the grandfather of singer/poet Leonard Cohen.

Biography
Cohen was born in Congress Poland, part of the Russian Empire, to a Jewish family on May 11, 1868. He immigrated to Canada with his parents in 1871. He was educated at the McGill Model School and the Catholic Commercial Academy in Montreal. In 1888, he entered the firm of Lee & Cohen in Montreal; later became partner with his father in the firm of L. Cohen & Son; in 1895, he established W. R. Cuthbert & Co; in 1900, he organized the Canadian Improvement Co., a dredging contractor; in 1906, he founded The Freedman Co. in Montreal; and in May 1919, he organized and became President of Canadian Export Clothiers, Ltd.  The Freedman Company went on to become one of Montreal’s largest clothing companies.In 1897, Cohen and Samuel William Jacobs founded the Canadian Jewish Times, the first English-language Jewish newspaper in Canada. The newspaper promoted the Canadianization of recent East European Jewish immigrants and encouraged their acceptance of Canadian customs as Cohen felt that the old world customs of immigrant Jews were one of the main causes of anti-Semitism. In 1914, the paper was purchased by Hirsch Wolofsky, owner of the Yiddish-language Keneder Adler, who transformed it into the Canadian Jewish Chronicle.He died on August 17, 1937, at the age of 69.

Philanthropy
Cohen was elected the first president of the Canadian Jewish Congress in 1919 and organized the Jewish Immigrant Aid Services of Canada. Cohen was also a leader of the Young Men’s Hebrew Benevolent Society (later the Baron de Hirsch Institute) and the United Talmud Torahs, a Jewish day school in Montreal. He also served as president of Congregation Shaar Hashomayim and president of the Jewish Colonization Association in Canada.

Personal life
Cohen married Rachel Friedman of Montreal on February 17, 1891. She was the founder and President of Jewish Endeavour Sewing School. They had three sons and one daughter:

Nathan Bernard Cohen, who served as a lieutenant in the World War; he married Lithuanian Jewish immigrant Masha Klonitsky and they had one daughter and one son:
Esther Cohen and
singer/poet Leonard Cohen.
Horace Rives Cohen, who was a captain and quartermaster of his battalion in World War I;
Lawrence Zebulun Cohen, student at McGill University, and
Sylvia Lillian Cohen.
Passage 3:
Bruno II of Isenburg-Braunsberg
Bruno II of Isenburg-Braunsberg was the Count of Isenburg-Braunsberg from 1210 until 1255.
Passage 4:
Kaya Alp
Kaya Alp (Ottoman Turkish: قایا الپ, lit. 'Brave Rock') was, according to Ottoman tradition, the son of Kızıl Buğa or Basuk and the father of Suleyman Shah. He was the grandfather of Ertuğrul Ghazi, the father of the founder of the Ottoman Empire, Osman I. He was also famously known for being the successing name of Ertokus Bey’s son Kaya Alp. He was a descendant of the ancestor of his tribe, Kayı son of Gun son of Oghuz Khagan, the legendary progenitor of the Oghuz Turks.
Passage 5:
Diepold of Berg
Diepold Count von Berg, also: Theobald, (c. 1140, – 3 November 1190) was the 11th Bishop of Passau from 1172 to 1190.

Biography
Diepold von Berg was born around 1140 as the son of Diepold von Berg-Schelklingen and Gisela von Andechs. Both his older brother Heinrich and the younger Manegold played an important role in the history of the Diocese of Passau. His third brother, Otto II von Berg, was Bishop of Freising.
Diepold was ordained priest on 10 June 1172 by Bishop Henry I of Gurk. On 23 November of the year, he was, at the urging of the Emperor Frederick Barbarossa (present at the ceremony), and with the consent of Pope Alexander III. New bishop of Passau. He thus succeeded the succession of his brother Heinrich von Berg.In 1178 he took part in the provincial synod in Hohenau at the Inn and traveled to Rome in 1179 to the third Lateran Council. Back at Passau he had been confronted to the fire of the city  in 1181, Diepold energetically sought the reconstruction of the cathedral and the residence.
In 1189, he accompanied Emperor Friedrich Barbarossa to the unsuccessful Third Crusade, and finally died in November 1190, together with six canons of the Passau Cathedral, during the siege of Acre in the camp near the city. Diepold was buried in the Holy Land.
Passage 6:
Bruno von Porstendorf
Bruno von Porstendorf otherwise Bruno II of Meissen or Bruno II von Porstendorf (died 4 December 1228) was Bishop of Meissen from 1209 to 1228.
In older lists of the bishops of Meissen he is numbered as Bruno III because of the inclusion of an earlier Bruno II, who was a clerical error.

Life
Along with the Přemyslid Kings of Bohemia Bruno was one of the most active participants in the German settlement of Upper Lusatia. For one thing, this was the location of the majority of the estates of the bishops of Meissen; for another, Bruno was keen in this way to secure his power in Upper Lusatia against the inroads of the Bohemians.
In 1228 he was removed from his office by Pope Gregory IX, presumably because of his reckless behaviour, and died on 4 December in the same year. His body was buried in the crypt of the collegiate church in Bautzen, which he had founded himself between 1213 and 1218.
In 1225 Bruno dedicated the Chapel of St. George in the Matthias Gate in Ortenburg, Bautzen.

Notes and references
Sources
Enno Bünz: Der Meißner Bischof Bruno von Porstendorf (1209/10–1228). Herkunft – Aufstieg – Rücktritt – Pensionierung. In: Neues Archiv für sächsische Geschichte. 77 (2006), pp. 1–36
Thomas Ludwig, 2008: Die Urkunden der Bischöfe von Meissen: diplomatische Untersuchungen zum 10.-13. Jahrhundert. Volume 10 of Archiv für Diplomatik: Beiheft. Böhlau Verlag Köln Weimar ISBN 9783412259051
Passage 7:
Adolf III of Berg
Adolf III of Berg (1080 – 12 October 1152) was count of Berg from 1093 until 1132, and count of Hövel from 1090 until 1106, and Vogt of Werden. He was the son of Adolf II of Berg-Hövel, count of Berg, and Adelaide of Lauffen.
He married Adelheid of Cleves (von Kleve), possibly a daughter of Dietrich II count of Cleves (died 1118).
They had issue:

Adolf IV of Berg count of Berg and count of Altena (died after 1161);
Eberhard of Berg, monk in Morimont, 1st Abbot of Georgenthal (1143–1152) in Thüringen (born 1090/95, died 1152, buried in Altenberg (Gedenktag katholisch: 22. Juli - "Er bewog seinen Bruder, dem Orden 1133 auch das von der Familie gestiftete Kloster in Altenberg zu übertragen. Eberhard wurde dann 1143 Abt in dem von seinem Schwager gestifteten Kloster Georgenthal bei Gotha");
Bruno II of Berg, Archbishop of Cologne between 1131 and 1137 (died in Trani, Italy 30 May 1137, buried in Bari);
Gisela of Berg, married Sizzo count von Schwarzburg (died 1160).

Nota
Adolf III, Count of Berg is named Adolf I, Count of Berg in the Netherlands and in Germany.

Literature
Alberic of Troisfontaines (MGH, Scriptores XXIII).
Annales Rodenses (MGH, Scriptores, XVI).
Annalista Saxo (MGH, Scriptores VI).
Gesta Trevirorum (MGH, Scriptores VIII).
MGH, Diplomata.
REK I-II.
Rheinisches UB.
Hömberg, “Geschichte.”
Jackman, “Counts of Cologne.” – Jackman, Criticism.
Klebel, E. “Niederösterreich und der Stammbaum der Grafen von Görz und Schwarzburg.” Unsere Heimat. Monatsblatt des Vereins für Landeskunde von Niederösterreich 23 (1952) 111-23.
Kluger, “Propter claritatem generis.” – Kraus, Entstehung.
Lück, D. “Der Avelgau, die erste fassbare Gebietseinteilung an der unteren Sieg.” In: Heimatbuch der Stadt Siegburg I. Ed. H. J. Roggendorf. Siegburg, 1964. pp. 223–85.
Lück, D. “In pago Tuizichgowe
Anmerkungen zum Deutzgau.” Rechtsrheinisches Köln 3 (1977) 1-9.
Milz, “Vögte.”
Schmale, “Anfänge.”
Tyroller, “Genealogie.”
Wunder, G. “Die Nichten des Erzbischofs Friedrich von Köln.” AHVN 164 (1962) 192-6.
Wunder, G. “Die Verwandtschaft des Erzbischofs Friedrich I. von Köln. Ein Beitrag zur abendländischen Verflechtung des Hochadels im Mittelalter.” AHVN 166 (1964) 25-54.
Passage 8:
Abd al-Muttalib
Shayba ibn Hāshim (Arabic: شَيْبَة إبْن هَاشِم; c. 497–578), better known as ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib, (Arabic: عَبْد ٱلْمُطَّلِب, lit. 'Servant of Muttalib') was the fourth chief of the Quraysh tribal confederation. He was the grandfather of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.

Early life
His father was Hashim ibn 'Abd Manaf,: 81  the progenitor of the distinguished Banu Hashim, a clan of the Quraysh tribe of Mecca. They claimed descent from Ismā'īl and Ibrāhīm. His mother was Salma bint Amr, from the Banu Najjar, a clan of the Khazraj tribe in Yathrib (later called Madinah). Hashim died while doing business in Gaza, before Abd al-Muttalib was born.: 81 His real name was "Shaiba" meaning 'the ancient one' or 'white-haired' because of the streak of white through his jet-black hair, and is sometimes also called Shaybah al-Ḥamd ("The white streak of praise").: 81–82  After his father's death he was raised in Yathrib with his mother and her family until about the age of eight, when his uncle Muttalib ibn Abd Manaf went to see him and asked his mother Salmah to entrust Shaybah to his care. Salmah was unwilling to let her son go and Shaiba refused to leave his mother without her consent. Muṭṭalib then pointed out that the possibilities Yathrib had to offer were incomparable to Mecca. Salmah was impressed with his arguments, so she agreed to let him go. Upon first arriving in Mecca, the people assumed the unknown child was Muttalib's servant and started calling him 'Abd al-Muttalib ("servant of Muttalib").: 85–86

Chieftain of Hashim clan
When Muṭṭalib died, Shaiba succeeded him as the chief of the Hāshim clan. Following his uncle Al-Muṭṭalib, he took over the duties of providing the pilgrims with food and water, and carried on the practices of his forefathers with his people. He attained such eminence as none of his forefathers enjoyed; his people loved him and his reputation was great among them.: 61 
'Umar ibn Al-Khaṭṭāb's grandfather Nufayl ibn Abdul Uzza arbitrated in a dispute between 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib and Ḥarb ibn Umayyah, Abu Sufyan's father, over the custodianship of the Kaaba. Nufayl gave his verdict in favour of 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib. Addressing Ḥarb ibn Umayyah, he said:
Why do you pick a quarrel with a person who is taller than you in stature; more imposing than you in appearance; more refined than you in intellect; whose progeny outnumbers yours and whose generosity outshines yours in lustre? Do not, however, construe this into any disparagement of your good qualities which I highly appreciate. You are as gentle as a lamb, you are renowned throughout Arabia for the stentorian tones of your voice, and you are an asset to your tribe.

Discovery of Zam Zam Well
'Abdul-Muṭṭalib said that while sleeping in the sacred enclosure, he had dreamed he was ordered to dig at the worship place of the Quraysh between the two deities Isāf and Nā'ila. There he would find the Zamzam Well, which the Jurhum tribe had filled in when they left Mecca. The Quraysh tried to stop him digging in that spot, but his son Al-Ḥārith stood guard until they gave up their protests. After three days of digging, 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib found traces of an ancient religious well and exclaimed, "Allahuakbar!" Some of the Quraysh disputed his claim to sole rights over water, then one of them suggested that they go to a female shaman who lived afar. It was said that she could summon jinns and that she could help them decide who was the owner of the well. So, 11 people from the 11 tribes went on the expedition. They had to cross the desert to meet the priestess but then they got lost. There was a lack of food and water and people started to lose hope of ever getting out. One of them suggested that they dig their own graves and if they died, the last person standing would bury the others. So all began digging their own graves and just as Abdul-Muṭṭalib started digging, water spewed out from the hole he dug and everyone became overjoyed. It was then and there decided that Abdul-Muttalib was the owner of the Zam Zam well. Thereafter he supplied pilgrims to the Kaaba with Zam Zam water, which soon eclipsed all the other wells in Mecca because it was considered sacred.: 86–89 : 62–65

The Year of the Elephant
According to Muslim tradition, the Ethiopian governor of Yemen, Abrahah al-Ashram, envied the Kaaba's reverence among the Arabs and, being a Christian, he built a cathedral on Sana'a and ordered pilgrimage be made there.: 21  The order was ignored and someone desecrated (some saying in the form of defecation: 696 note 35 ) the cathedral. Abrahah decided to avenge this act by demolishing the Kaaba and he advanced with an army towards Mecca.: 22–23 There were thirteen elephants in Abrahah's army: 99 : 26  and the year came to be known as 'Ām al-Fīl (the Year of the Elephant), beginning a trend for reckoning the years in Arabia which was used until 'Umar ibn Al-Khaṭṭāb replaced it with the Islamic Calendar in 638 CE (17 AH), with the first year of the Islamic Calendar being 622 CE.
When news of the advance of Abrahah's army came, the Arab tribes of Quraysh, Kinānah, Khuzā'ah and Hudhayl united in defence of the Kaaba. A man from the Ḥimyar tribe was sent by Abrahah to advise them that he only wished to demolish the Kaaba and if they resisted, they would be crushed. "Abdul-Muṭṭalib told the Meccans to seek refuge in the nearest high hills while he, with some leading members of Quraysh, remained within the precincts of the Kaaba. Abrahah sent a dispatch inviting 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib to meet him and discuss matters. When 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib left the meeting he was heard saying, "The Owner of this House is its Defender, and I am sure He will save it from the attack of the adversaries and will not dishonour the servants of His House.": 24–26 It is recorded that when Abrahah's forces neared the Kaaba, Allah commanded small birds (abābīl) to destroy Abrahah's army, raining down pebbles on it from their beaks. Abrahah was seriously wounded and retreated towards Yemen but died on the way.: 26–27  This event is referred to in the following Qur'anic chapter:

Have you not seen how your Lord dealt with the owners of the Elephant?
Did He not make their treacherous plan go astray?

And He sent against them birds in flocks, striking them with stones of baked clay, so He rendered them like straw eaten up.
Most Islamic sources place the event around the year that Muhammad was born, 570 CE, though other scholars place it one or two decades earlier. A tradition attributed to Ibn Shihab al-Zuhri in the musannaf of ʽAbd al-Razzaq al-Sanʽani places it before the birth of Muhammad's father.

Sacrificing his son Abdullah
Al-Harith was 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib's only son at the time he dug the Zamzam Well.: 64  When the Quraysh tried to help him in the digging, he vowed that if he were to have ten sons to protect him, he would sacrifice one of them to Allah at the Kaaba. Later, after nine more sons had been born to him, he told them he must keep the vow. The divination arrows fell upon his favourite son Abdullah. The Quraysh protested 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib's intention to sacrifice his son and demanded that he sacrifice something else instead. 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib agreed to consult a "sorceress with a familiar spirit". She told him to cast lots between Abdullah and ten camels. If Abdullah were chosen, he had to add ten more camels, and keep on doing the same until his Lord accepted the camels in Abdullah's place. When the number of camels reached 100, the lot fell on the camels. 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib confirmed this by repeating the test three times. Then the camels were sacrificed, and Abdullah was spared.: 66–68

Family
Wives
Abd al-Muttalib had six known wives.

Sumra bint Jundab of the Hawazin tribe.
Lubnā bint Hājar of the Khuza'a tribe.
Fatima bint Amr of the Makhzum clan of the Quraysh tribe.
Halah bint Wuhayb of the Zuhrah clan of the Quraysh tribe.
Natīla bint Janab of the Namir tribe.
Mumanna'a bint Amr of the Khuza'a tribe.

Children
According to Ibn Hisham, ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib had ten sons and six daughters.: 707–708 note 97  However, Ibn Sa'd lists twelve sons.: 99–101 By Sumra bint Jundab:

Al-Ḥārith.: 708  He was the firstborn and he died before his father.: 99 
Quthum.: 100  He is not listed by Ibn Hisham.By Fatima bint Amr:

Al-Zubayr.: 707  He was a poet and a chief; his father made a will in his favour.: 99  He died before Islam, leaving two sons and daughters.: 101 : 34–35 
Abu Talib, born as Abd Manaf,: 99 : 707  father of the future Caliph Ali. He later became chief of the Hashim clan.
Abdullah, the father of Muhammad.: 99 : 707 
Umm Hakim al-Bayda,: 100 : 707  the maternal grandmother of the third Caliph Uthman.: 32 
Barra,: 100 : 707  the mother of Abu Salama.: 33 
Arwa.: 100 : 707 
Atika,: 100 : 707  a wife of Abu Umayya ibn al-Mughira.: 31 
Umayma,: 100 : 707  the mother of Zaynab bint Jahsh and Abd Allah ibn Jahsh.: 33 By Lubnā bint Hājar:

Abd al-'Uzzā, better known as Abū Lahab.: 100 : 708 By Halah bint Wuhayb:

Ḥamza,: 707  the first big leader of Islam. He killed many leaders of the kufar and was considered as the strongest man of the quraysh. He was martyred at Uhud.: 100 
Ṣafīyya.: 100 : 707 
Al-Muqawwim.: 707  He married Qilaba bint Amr ibn Ju'ana ibn Sa'd al-Sahmia, and had children named Abd Allah, Bakr, Hind, Arwa, and Umm Amr (Qutayla or Amra).
Hajl.: 707  He married Umm Murra bint Abi Qays ibn Abd Wud, and had two sons, named Abd Allah, Ubayd Allah, and three daughters named Murra, Rabi'a, and Fakhita.By Natīlah bint Khubāb:

al-'Abbas,: 100 : 707  ancestor of the Abbasid caliphs.
Ḍirār,: 707  who died before Islam.: 100 
Jahl, died before Islam
Imran, died before IslamBy Mumanna'a bint 'Amr:

Mus'ab, who, according to Ibn Saad, was the one known as al-Ghaydāq.: 100  He is not listed by Ibn Hisham.
Al-Ghaydaq, died before Islam.
Abd al-Ka'ba, died before Islam.: 100 
Al-Mughira,: 100  who had the byname al-Ghaydaq.

The family tree and some of his important descendants
Death
Abdul Muttalib's son 'Abdullāh died four months before Muḥammad's birth, after which Abdul Muttalib took care of his daughter-in-law Āminah. One day Muhammad's mother, Amina, wanted to go to Yathrib, where her husband, Abdullah, died. So, Muhammad, Amina, Abd al-Muttalib and their caretaker, Umm Ayman started their journey to Medina, which is around 500 kilometres away from Makkah. They stayed there for three weeks, then, started their journey back to Mecca. But, when they reached halfway, at Al-Abwa', Amina became very sick and died six years after her husband's death. She was buried over there. From then, Muhammad became an orphan. Abd al-Muttalib became very sad for Muhammad because he loved him so much. Abd al-Muttalib took care of Muhammad. But when Muhammad was eight years old, the very old Abd al-Muttalib became very sick and died at age 81-82 in 578-579 CE.
Shaybah ibn Hāshim's grave can be found in the Jannat al-Mu'allā cemetery in Makkah, Saudi Arabia.

See also
Family tree of Muhammad
Family tree of Shaiba ibn Hashim
Sahaba
Passage 9:
Bruno II von Berg
Bruno II of Berg (German: Bruno II von Berg) (c. 1100 – 1137) was the Archbishop of Cologne from 1131 until 1137.
Bruno II of Berg was a son of Count Adolf III of Berg. In 1119 he was mentioned as a Provost in Cologne, and he became the provost of St. Gereon in Cologne in 1127. In 1130 he was elected the Archbishop of Trier, but refused.
Bruno was selected on Christmas Day of 1131 by King Lothar of Germany and a papal legate as the Archbishop of Cologne. In 1133 he converted his own keep at Altenberg into a monastery. Bruno died in 1137 in Apulia on campaign with King Lothair of Germany against Roger II of Sicily.
Passage 10:
John Westley
Rev. John Wesley (1636–78) was an English nonconformist minister. He was the grandfather of John Wesley (founder of Methodism).

Life
John Wesly (his own spelling), Westley, or Wesley was probably born at Bridport, Dorset, although some authorities claim he was born in Devon, the son of the Rev. Bartholomew Westley and Ann Colley, daughter of Sir Henry Colley of Carbery Castle in County Kildare, Ireland. He was educated at Dorchester Grammar School and as a student of New Inn Hall, Oxford, where he matriculated on 23 April 1651, and graduated B.A. on 23 January 1655, and M.A. on 4 July 1657. After his appointment as an evangelist, he preached at Melcombe Regis, Radipole, and other areas in Dorset. Never episcopally ordained, he was approved by Oliver Cromwell's Commission of Triers in 1658 and appointed Vicar of Winterborne Whitechurch.The report of his interview in 1661 with Gilbert Ironside the elder, his diocesan, according to Alexander Gordon writing in the Dictionary of National Biography, shows him to have been an Independent. He was imprisoned for not using the Book of Common Prayer, imprisoned again and ejected in 1662. After the Conventicle Act 1664 he continued to preach in small gatherings at Preston and then Poole, until his death at Preston in 1678.

Family
He married a daughter of John White, who was related also to Thomas Fuller. White, the "Patriarch of Dorchester", married a sister of Cornelius Burges. Westley's eldest son was Timothy (born 1659). Their second son was Rev. Samuel Wesley, a High Church Anglican vicar and the father of John and Charles Wesley. A younger son, Matthew Wesley, remained a nonconformist, became a London apothecary, and died on 10 June 1737, leaving a son, Matthew, in India; he provided for some of his brother Samuel's daughters.

Notes
Additional sources
Matthews, A. G., "Calamy Revised", Oxford University Press, 1934, page 521. This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: "Wesley, Samuel (1662-1735)". Dictionary of National Biography. London: Smith, Elder & Co. 1885–1900.