Passage 1:
Clara Law
Clara Law Cheuk-yiu (traditional Chinese: 羅卓瑤; simplified Chinese: 罗卓瑶; pinyin: Luó Zhuóyáo; Jyutping: lo4 coek3 jiu4, born 29 May 1957 in Macau) is a Hong Kong Second Wave film director who currently resides in Australia.

Early life
Clara Law was born on 29 May 1957 in Macau. At the age of 10 she moved to Hong Kong. Law studied at the University of Hong Kong and graduated with a degree in English Literature. In 1978 she joined Radio Television Hong Kong as an assistant producer and director. During her time there she tried many aspects of television from screenwriting to directing. Between 1978 and 1981 she directed twelve drama programs for the television channel. In 1982 she began studying film direction and writing at the National Film and Television School in England. She won the Silver Plaque Award at the Chicago Film Festival in 1985 for her graduation film They Say the Moon is Fuller Here.

Career
1985–1994
In 1985 she returned to Hong Kong and began development on her first long feature film The Other Half and the Other Half, which was released in 1988. Since her return to Hong Kong she has worked with Eddie Fong on all of her projects. In 1989 she created her second film The Reincarnation of Golden Lotus. The film was screened at the Toronto Film Festival and was released commercially in the US. A year later she created Farewell China. It won the Special Jury Award at the Torino Film Festival. She was also nominated for best director at the Hong Kong Film Awards for the film. She directed Fruit Punch in 1991, which was a commercial film produced by a large Hong Kong film studio. In 1992 she directed and produced Autumn Moon. The film was a hit in the film festival circuit. It won the Golden Leopard Award at the Locarno Film Festival in 1992, as well as the European Art Theatres Association Best Picture Award and the Youth Special Jury Award in Switzerland and the Best Screenplay in Valencia (1994). It was also awarded at the Belgium and Portugal film festivals. Autumn Moon was selected for official screenings at the New York Film Festival as well as in Sundance, Toronto, London, Rotterdam, Gothenburg, Thessaloniki, Nantes, San Francisco, Créteil, Dublin, Puerto Rico, Seattle, Jerusalem, New Delhi, Wellington, Midnight Sun Finland, Rio de Janeiro, Reykjavik, Ghent, Munich, Ankara, Sydney and Melbourne. In 1993 she released Temptation of a Monk. The film is an adaptation of a novella by Lillian Lee. The film was shot entirely on location in the north and northwestern part of China. The film was selected for competition at the Venice Film Festival in 1993. It won the Grand Prix at the Créteil International Film Festival in France (1994). The film was also selected for official screenings at the Toronto, Sundance, Rotterdam and Brisbane film festivals, and as the closing film at the L.A. Film Festival. In 1994, Law finished a segment of the movie Erotique called Wonton Soup. Later that year she and Eddie Fong moved to Australia.

1994 – present
She moved to Australia with Eddie Fong in 1994. The pair's first film after their move to Australia is Floating Life, which was completed in 1996. It won the Silver Leopard Award at the Locarno Film Festival in 1996, and two other awards including Best Film, it was selected by Prix FICC and the "Ambiente salute: Qualita di vita" award. It also won the Best Film and Best Director Awards at the Gijon International Film Festival in Spain, and the Grand Prix at the Créteil International Film Festival in France. It was nominated for three awards at the Australian Film Institute Awards including Best Director and Best Screenplay, and it received nine nominations at the Golden Horse International Film Festival in Taiwan, including the awards for Best Film, Best Director and Best Screenplay. Floating Life was also Australia's official entry in the Best Foreign Language Film category at the 69th Academy Awards (1997). The film was also screened at the Sydney, Melbourne, London, Rotterdam, Hof, Stockholm, Toronto and Hawaii film festivals. The Goddess of 1967, shot on location in the outback of Australia and Tokyo, was completed in 2000. It was in competition at the Venice film festival in 2000 where Rose Byrne won the Best Actress Award. What's more, Clara Law was nominated for the Golden Lion in Venice. The film also pocketed the Best Director Award at the Chicago International Film Festival, the Best Director Award at the Teplice Art Film Festival in Slovakia and the FIPRESCI Critics' Award for Best Film at the Tromsø Film Festival in Norway. The film was also selected for official screenings at the Toronto, London, Pusan, Hof, Vancouver, Hawaii, Taipei, Rotterdam, Jerusalem, Karlovy Vary and Oslo film festivals. She directed her first digital documentary in 2004 called Letters to Ali with Eddie Fong who co-produced, edited, and shot the film. The film was selected for competition at the Venice Film Festival and for official screenings at the Toronto, Pusan, Gothenburg and Melbourne film festivals. She completed Like a Dream in 2009. This film marked her return to Asia. The film was nominated in nine categories at the 2009 Golden Horse Awards. It also opened the 2010 Hong Kong International Film Festival. In 2010, Law made a short film, Red Earth, commissioned by the Hong Kong International Film Festival. The short was selected in the Horizon category at the 2010 Venice film festival.Law's films explore themes surrounding migration and exile, including loyalty, family, love, and nostalgia. She has used a variety of visual and narrative styles throughout her oeuvre to interrogate cultural dislocation and its effect on individuals and communities.

Filmography
Awards and nominations
See also
List of graduates of University of Hong Kong
Passage 2:
I'll Get By (film)
I'll Get By is a 1950 American comedy musical film directed by Richard Sale, and starring June Haver, Gloria DeHaven and William Lundigan.
This story follows themes explored in 1940's Tin Pan Alley, with updated characters and music. The plot revolves around songwriters and their struggles in the music industry.

Plot
Song plugger Bill Spencer runs into Liza Martin, literally. He slams a door into her accidentally while rushing to bring a new recording to Peter Pepper, an influential New York disc jockey. The record breaks.
After he is fired, Bill opens his own music publishing business. He hires a secretary, Miss Murphy, and gains a partner in Freddy Lee, a young man from Texas, with whom he peddles a song that piano player Chester Dooley has written. They hear the singer Terry Martin is performing with trumpeter Harry James at a club, so they go there to pitch the song to her. Terry's sister is also in the act; she is Liza, the girl Bill once awkwardly met.
Freddy annoys Terry but the girls like the song, "I'll Get By," and agree to record it. Before long, it and they become huge successes. But, before a benefit in Hollywood, when the actress Jeanne Crain asks to perform the song, Bill says no because he promised it to Liza, but behind his back, Freddy agrees to let the actress have it. A furious Liza leaves Bill and refuses to listen to his attempts to explain.
The boys are drafted into the Marines, and when they report to a San Diego base, they run into Miss Murphy, who is now stationed there as an officer. After the boys ship out for duty, Miss Murphy goes out of her way to explain to Liza and Terry what happened with the song. The girls go on a USO show tour to the South Pacific where the guys have been sent, and all are reunited.

Cast
June Haver as Liza Martin
William Lundigan as William Spencer
Gloria DeHaven as Terry Martin
Dennis Day as Freddy Lee
Thelma Ritter as Miss Murphy
Harry James as Harry James (himself)
Jeanne Crain as Jeanne Crain (herself)
Steve Allen as Peter Pepper
Harry Antrim as Mr. Olinville
Danny Davenport as Chester Dooley
Dan Dailey as Pvt. Dan Dailey (himself)

Awards
Lionel Newman received a nomination for the 1951 Academy Award in the category of Best Music, Scoring for this film.
Passage 3:
The Reincarnation of Golden Lotus
The Reincarnation of Golden Lotus (Chinese: 潘金蓮之前世今生) is a 1989 Hong Kong film directed by Clara Law and produced by Teddy Robin, and written by Lilian Lee. The film stars Joey Wong, Eric Tsang, Wilson Lam, Pal Sinn, and Ku Feng. The film premiered in Taiwan on 4 August 1989.

Plot
During Song Dynasty, Pan Jinlian was beheaded by the warder, she is reborn into the body of a baby girl named Shan Yulian, in Shanghai, after the Chinese Communist Revolution.
The war orphaned Shan Yulian at an early age. She graduated from Shanghai Arts School, majoring in Ballet.
In 1966, Mao Zedong launched the Cultural Revolution, Shan Yulian was brought to be persecuted and suffered political persecution by the CPC Government, she was raped by the President of Shanghai Dance Troupe. During the Down to the Countryside Movement, Shan Yulian was sent to the May Seventh Cadre Schools to work, she married a stupid farmer Wu Da, but she falls in love with Wu Da's brother, Wu Long, at the same time, Simon, who is a local playboy start to pursue her, and she falls into a love triangle with Wu Long and Simon.

Cast
Joey Wong as Pan Jinlian/ Shan Yulian
Eric Tsang as Wu Da
Wilson Lam as Wu Long
Pal Sinn as Simon
Ku Feng

Release
The film was first released in Taiwan on 4 August 1989, and it was given a wider release on 16 February 1990.
The film was screened at the Toronto Festival of Festivals.
The film grossed $8,160,911.00 million.

Award
Passage 4:
9th Jebtsundamba Khutughtu
The 9th Jebtsundamba Khutughtu (January 6, 1933 – March 1, 2012) was the 9th reincarnation of the Jebtsundamba Khutuktu, the third highest lama in the Tibetan Buddhism hierarchy and the spiritual leader of the Gelug lineage among the Khalkha Mongols. Although recognized as the reincarnation of the Bogd Khan in 1936, his identity was kept a secret by the Dalai Lama until 1990, due to the persecution of the Buddhist religion by the Communist Mongolian People's Republic, and he did not reside in Mongolia until the final year of his life.

Biography
He was born as Jampal Namdol Chökyi Gyaltsen on the tenth day of the eleventh month of Water Monkey year (6 January 1933) near the Jokhang Temple in Lhasa, Tibet. Six months after his birth, his parents separated and his mother left him in the care of his uncle who was a bodyguard of the thirteenth Dalai Lama. The thirteenth Dalai Lama died in December 1933, and Reting Rinpoche became Regent of Tibet until a new Dalai Lama was discovered and crowned. In 1936, because of the inability of the Mongolian lamas to proclaim the discovery of the ninth Khutughtu, Reting Rinpoche recognised Jampal Namdol Chökyi Gyaltsen, then aged four, as the reincarnation of the Jetsundamba Khutughtu, after the boy passed three sets of tests. Due to the complex political situation, his existence was kept a secret. At the age of seven, he entered the Drepung Monastery, but because his identity was kept secret, he could not enter the Khalkha Mitsen, but had to follow the life of a common monk. At age 25, he renounced his monastic vows and became a householder, took a wife and had two children. When the fourteenth Dalai Lama escaped from Tibet in 1959, Jampal Namdol did also, fearing that his identity would be revealed and he would be killed or used by the Communists for propaganda.

In exile in India, he worked at various jobs, including in the Tibetan language section of All India Radio, and at Tibet House in New Delhi. His first wife died, and he remarried. In 1975, his family (now including seven children) moved to Karnataka. In 1984, Jampal Namdol visited Lhasa, and in 1990 the Dalai Lama issued a statement revealing the identity of the ninth Khutughtu. In 1991 the Dalai Lama performed an installation ceremony in Madhya Pradesh and in 1992 an enthronement ceremony in Dharmshala for the ninth Jebtsundamba Khutughtu. In July 1999, while visiting Mongolia on a tourist visa, Jampal Namdol took part in an enthronement ceremony at the Gandantegchinlen Khiid Monastery in Ulaanbaatar. He continued to live in exile in India. Now he was considered the leader of Mongolian Buddhists. In 2010 he came to Mongolia at the invitation of the Gandantegchinlin monastery and received Mongolian citizenship, but returned to Dharamshala afterwards. Then he returned to Mongolia. In November 2011 he was enthroned as the head of Buddhists of Mongolia.The 14th Dalai Lama appointed the 9th Jebtsundamba to develop the Jonang tradition of Tibetan Buddhism.Rinpoche died on March 1, 2012, in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, after a prolonged illness.On November 23, 2016, during a visit to Mongolia, the Dalai Lama announced his belief that the 10th Jebtsundamba Khutughtu had been reborn in Mongolia and that a process for identifying him had begun. He was found and was anointed on 8 March 2023 by Dalai Lama in India.

See also
Mongolians in India
Passage 5:
Richard Sale (director)
Richard Sale, (December 17, 1911 in New York – March 4, 1993 in Los Angeles) was an American screenwriter, pulp writer, and film director.

Career
Born in New York City, Sale was educated at Washington and Lee University.Sale started his career writing as a freelance writer for pulps in the Thirties, appearing regularly in Detective Fiction Weekly (with the Daffy Dill series ), Argosy, Double Detective, and a number of other magazines. In the Forties, he graduated to slick publications like The Country Gentleman and The Saturday Evening Post. In the 1930s, Sale was one of the highest-paid pulp writers.  In the mid-Forties to mid-Fifties, he made a career change from writing magazine fiction to screenplays. He became a writer for Paramount pictures, a writer-director for Republic Pictures, 20th Century-Fox, British Lion, United Artists, and Columbia pictures. He also became a television writer, director, and producer for Columbia Broadcasting System.Sale's 1936 novel Not Too Narrow, Not Too Deep was filmed as Strange Cargo (1940) starring Joan Crawford and Clark Gable.
He directed several films, including A Ticket to Tomahawk (1950), Meet Me After the Show (1951) with Betty Grable, Let's Make It Legal (1951) featuring one of Marilyn Monroe's earliest film appearances, Malaga (1954), and Gentlemen Marry Brunettes (1955) with Jane Russell. He also wrote many screenplays, Suddenly (1954), The French Line (1954) and  Gentlemen Marry Brunettes, both with Mary Loos, his wife at the time, The Oscar (1966), The White Buffalo (1977) and Assassination (1987). Alongside his work for many production companies, Sale wrote over 400 short stories.Together with Mary Loos, he created the Western television series Yancy Derringer which ran for one season in 1958–59.
Sale died in 1993 after complications from two strokes.

Selected screenplay filmography
As director
Some of these additional movies were found in the Los Angeles Times.
Passage 6:
Max Ehrlich (writer)
Max Simon Ehrlich (October 10, 1909 – February 11, 1983) was an American writer. He is best known for the novel The Reincarnation of Peter Proud and the movie of the same name.

Biography
Early life and education
Max Simon Ehrlich was born in Springfield, Massachusetts on October 10, 1909 to Simon and Sarah Ehrlich. He received a B.A. degree from the University of Michigan in 1933.

Career
Ehrlich began his career in newspapers, working as a correspondent for the Albany, New York Knickerbocker Press and Evening News during his college years, then after graduating as a feature writer for the Springfield, Massachusetts Republican. From there he turned to radio, working as the chief writer of the script division of WSPR in 1938 and 1939, in the script division of the American Jewish Committee from 1939 to 1941, and from 1941 to 1945 he was the assistant script director of the radio division of the American Red Cross.After 1945, Ehrlich was a novelist, playwright, radio and TV dramatist, and author of adaptations for radio, television, and feature films. He wrote radio scripts for series including The Big Story, The Shadow, Big Town, Mr. and Mrs. North, and Murder at Midnight. His television work included scripts for the series Barney Blake, The Big Story, The Defenders, The Nurses, The United States Steel Hour, and Star Trek (episode "The Apple"). Three of his feature film scripts (listed below) were adaptations of his own novels.

Marriage and children
Ehrlich married and had two daughters. One daughter, Amy Ehrlich, is a writer of books for children.

Death
Ehrlich died on February 11, 1983.

Published books
The Big Eye (Doubleday, 1949)
Spin the Glass Web (Harper & Brothers, 1952)
First Train to Babylon (Harper, 1955)
The Takers (Harper, 1961)
Deep is the Blue (Doubleday, 1964)
The High Side (Fawcett Publications, 1970)
The Edict (Doubleday, 1971)
The Reincarnation of Peter Proud (Bobbs-Merrill, 1974)
The Savage is Loose (Bantam Books, 1974)
The Cult (Simon & Schuster, 1978)
Reincarnation in Venice (Simon & Schuster, 1979)
Naked Beach (Granada, 1979)
The Big Boys (Houghton Mifflin, 1981)
Shaitan (Arbor House, 1981)

Filmography
Films
Television
Awards
1944: Writers' War Board Award
1963: Huntington Hartford Foundation Fellowship
Passage 7:
Pal Sinn
Pal Sinn Lap-man (born 17 March 1959) is a Hong Kong musician, singer and actor.Sinn is noted for his roles as Sai-Mun Hing in The Reincarnation of Golden Lotus, for which he received Hong Kong Film Award nomination for Best New Performer.

Life
Early life
Sinn was born and raised in Hong Kong, where he attended the Lung Cheung Government Technical Secondary School in the early 1970s.

Career
At 16, Sinn began his career as a singer at a bar on Lockhart Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong.In 1986, Sinn joined Chyna, a heavy metal rock band founded by Donald Ashley.  After the band was disbanded, then he founded the Blue Jeans with Su Dehua, but Blue Jeans was disbanded in 1990.He had his first experience in front of the camera in 1986, and he was chosen to act as a support actor in Jeffrey Lau's Operation Pink Squad, an action film starring Sandra Ng, Guan Xiumei, Ann Bridgewater, Elsie Chan, and Charlie Cho.
For his role as Sai-Mun Hing in The Reincarnation of Golden Lotus (1989), Sinn was nominated for the Hong Kong Film Award for Best New Performer. That same year, he participated in Tai Kit Mak's All Night Long, a story film starring Carol Cheng, Shui-Fan Fung, Elizabeth Lee, Elsie Chan, Crystal Kwok, and Wu Ma. Then he appeared as a fast food restaurant staff in Clarence Fok's The Iceman Cometh, the film stars Yuen Biao, Yuen Wah, and Maggie Cheung.
He co-starred with Michelle Monique Reis, Natalis Chan and Iwanbeo Leung in Yuen Cheung-Yan's Coup De Grace (1990). Sinn also filmed in Love Is Love, alongside Stephen Chow, Suki Kwan, Sandra Ng, and Sing Fui On.
In 1991, Sinn played Hussein, who is a gambler, in Wong Jing's God of Gamblers II, an action film starring Andy Lau, Stephen Chow, and Ng Man Tat. That same year, he starred as Sai-Mun Hing in The Golden Lotus 'Love and Desire', based on the novel The Golden Lotus by Lanling Xiaoxiaosheng.
In 1992, Sinn portrayed Gao Ya'nei, the son of Grand Marshal Gao Qiu, in All Men Are Brothers – Blood of the Leopard, adapted from Shi Nai'an's classical novel The Water Margin. The film also stars Tony Leung, Joey Wang, and Elvis Tsui.
In 1993, Sinn had a minor role as Da Jiaoban in Wong Jing's City Hunter, which starred Jackie Chan, Chingmy Yau, Joey Wang, and Richard Norton.
In 1994, Sinn starred in a historical film called Fire Dragon with Brigitte Lin, Max Mok, and Sandra Ng, directed by Yuen Woo-ping. He played the lead role in Whatever You Want, opposite Jordan Chan, Anita Yuen, and Law Kar-ying.
In 1995, Sinn appeared as Julian in Detective Investigation Files II, he also participated in its sequel Detective Investigation Files IV (1999).
In 2007, Sinn was cast in Ho-Cheung Pang's Exodus, a suspense film starring Simon Yam, Irene Wan, and Nick Cheung.
Sinn had a cameo appearance in Dream Home (2010), which starred Eason Chan as Zheng Lichang's lover (played by Josie Ho).
In 2011, Sinn acted in the romantic comedy film Lan Kwai Fong.
In 2012, Sinn had a supporting role in The Silent War, a film adaptation based on the novel Plot by Mai Jia.

Personal life
In the 1980s, Sinn fell in love with Anita Mui.Sinn began dating Paisley Wu in 1996, and they married in 2008.

Instruments
Pal Sinn has played a number of basses in his music career, such Tune, Fodera and Bacchus.

Filmography
Film
Television
Discography
Albums
Awards
Passage 8:
Escape Route (film)
Escape Route is a 1952 British black-and-white thriller film, directed by Seymour Friedman and Peter Graham Scott, and starring George Raft, Sally Gray and Clifford Evans.The film was known in the US as I'll Get You (not to be confused with an earlier Raft film, I'll Get You for This).The film is largely filmed in the streets of London.

Plot
An American, Steve Rossi, enters Britain by slipping past immigration at Heathrow Airport, leading to a national manhunt by the police led by Scotland Yard.
Rossi heads into London where he tracks down Bailey, a barman in a cocktail bar, and asks him about Michael Grand. The barman passes him a note with an address which leads him to a woman, who says she does not know Grand. She agrees to change his US currency and buy him a coat while he waits in her flat. For money, she gives him another address: Kingston House, a swanky block of flats on Kingston Road. He takes a taxi there.
Their he meets Joan Miller who says yes it is Grand's flat but she is his secretary and he is not there. She claims that Grand is not going to return, but calls Grand who agrees to meet. Rossi wants to stay put in Grand's flat but Joan pulls a gun on him and together they drive to an old terraced house where Rossi meets Wilkes who starts quizzing Rossi.
Rossi says that Grand offered him a job, working on aircraft design. Joan is asked to accommodate Rossi in her own flat.
Meanwhile the police post Rossi's picture in all the newspapers and quiz various underworld figures to try to locate him. The taxi driver recognises the picture.
Joan Miller is revealed to be an MI5 agent. Rossi reveals himself to be an FBI agent posing as a nuclear scientist in an attempt to infiltrate a gang kidnapping western scientists and taking them across the Iron Curtain. Grand has recently arranged the kidnap of an American. With MI5's assistance, Rossi monitors Grand and arranges a meeting with him. Growing increasingly suspicious of Rossi, Grand and his organisation make several attempts to kill him.
Rossi and Joan follow Irma Brookes, Grand's female assistant in an attempt to find him. Irma Brookes and a body with some of Grand's ID is found in a burned out car.
Rossi is caught and taken to Hammersmith Police Station. It is explained that Rossi wanted to get into the papers so that Grand would be aware of his presence.
Rossi cannot identify the body in the mortuary as Grand as he is unsure of his appearance.
The viewer finally sees Grand when Max, another taxi driver, informs him of what he has seen both at the burning car and near the mortuary.
Rossi dons a naval uniform and tails Grand on foot through empty streets in the city, leaving a chalk trail of markers for Joan to follow. Grand goes to the River Thames where the low tide allows him to walk along the edge. They end at the Old Swan Pier near London Bridge. Grand pulls a gun and a scuffle begins. Grand escapes to a rooftop of a grain elevator close to The Monument. They end up fighting on an external freight lift heading back to the ground. Rossi wins and the police arrive.

Cast
George Raft as Steve Rossi
Sally Gray as Joan Miller
Clifford Evans as Michael Grand
Frederick Piper as Inspector Reid
Reginald Tate as Colonel Wilkes
Patricia Laffan as Irma Brookes
June Ashley as Beauty Shop Attendant
John Warwick as Security Chief Brice
Roddy Hughes as Porter
Grace Arnold as Neighbour
Cyril Chamberlain as Bailey
Howard Douglas as Taxi Driver
Arthur Lovegrove as Phillips
Anthony Pendrell as Rees
Norman Pierce as Inspector Hobbs
Harry Towb as Immigration Officer

Production
It was made at Walton Studios and on location around London, mostly in the City of London, at a time when there was still much bomb damage from the Second World War. American actress Coleen Gray was reported to have been cast opposite Raft, but the role was eventually played by the English star Sally Gray. It was one of several films made by British companies in connection with the low-budget American outfit Lippert Pictures, which distributed the film in the United States. It was made on a larger budget than most Lippert releases.

Reception
The Los Angeles Times said the film was "so mysterious" the filmmakers "almost succeeded in keeping the story to themselves."
Passage 9:
The Reincarnation of Peter Proud
The Reincarnation of Peter Proud is a 1975 American psychological horror film directed by J. Lee Thompson, and starring Michael Sarrazin, Margot Kidder, and Jennifer O'Neill. It follows a university professor who, after experiencing a series of bizarre nightmares, comes to believe he is the reincarnation of someone else. It is based on the 1973 novel of the same title by Max Ehrlich, who adapted the screenplay.

Plot
Peter Proud, a college professor in Los Angeles, begins having recurring dreams he cannot explain. In one particular nightmare, Peter witnesses the murder of a young man by his girlfriend, Marcia, while he swims naked in a lake near a hotel. As he screams his final words, "Marcia, don't!," she bludgeons him with an oar, and he drowns. In subsequent dreams, Peter witnesses brief vignettes from the man's life, including romances with two different women, and has visions of houses and landmarks that are unknown to him.
Peter is haunted by his dreams and seeks medical treatment. He attends a sleep laboratory to try to decipher his dreams. However, the resident doctor, Sam Goodman, informs him that his dreams do not register as being dreams; in fact, they do not register at all. One evening while watching television, several of Peter's visions play out before him on a local documentary film titled The Changing Face of America. He sees an arch and church in the documentary that have figured prominently in his dreams, and calls the television station to discover the location. Upon learning that the location of his "visions" is in Massachusetts, Proud and his girlfriend Nora travel there.
In Massachusetts, the couple drive from town to town, but are unsuccessful until they arrive in Springfield. It is here that Proud begins to see familiar sights from his visions, such as a bridge, a church, the Puritan statue, and others. Nora decides to return to California, tired of Peter's relentless searching, which she dismisses as delusion. After Nora leaves, Peter continues his journey. Eventually, Peter locates Marcia, the mystery woman from his nightmares, now a middle-aged alcoholic. Peter subsequently befriends Marcia's daughter Ann at a local country club where Marcia's husband Jeff was once a tennis pro; Ann has recently returned home to care for her emotionally unstable mother. Through his research, Peter uncovers that Jeff was found drowned in Crystal Lake in 1946 under mysterious circumstances.
Marcia is suspicious of Peter and curious about his motives, specifically how much he seems to know about her life. Ann and Peter quickly develop a romance, much to the disapproval of Marcia, who responds by increasingly drinking and taking prescription drugs. Peter initially has some hesitation toward pursuing a relationship with Ann after considering that she may have been his daughter in a previous life, but he ultimately chooses to continue the romance. Ann tells Peter her father proposed to Marcia in the same area where they just made love.
One afternoon, Marcia accompanies Peter and Ann to the country club, where they lounge at the poolside. While Ann goes for a swim, Marcia witnesses a sleeping Peter repeating the phrase "Marcia, don't!" in Jeff's voice. This horrifies her, and she flees home where she locks herself in her bedroom. Later, she masturbates to the memory of Jeff raping her after she confronted him about an affair he had while she was pregnant with Ann. The following day, Marcia confronts Peter, demanding to know his true identity. The two get into a heated argument, during which he confirms that he is a reincarnation of her deceased husband.
Meanwhile, Peter realizes that by having re-enacted or visited the sites of his visions, they seem to have ceased haunting him. The lake vision of Jeff's murder is his last to be conquered. Drawn to the lake where Jeff died years prior, Peter enters the water, hoping to unfetter himself from the vision. While in the water, Marcia approaches him in the same boat she did Jeff years ago, now brandishing a pistol. Addressing Peter as Jeff, Marcia asks why he has returned to torment her, and accuses him of incest with Ann. When Peter tries to climb into the boat, Marcia shoots him to death. She watches as his body sinks to the bottom of the lake.

Cast
Production
Film rights to the novel were sold to Bing Crosby Productions before the novel had been published. In April 1974 it was announced the film would star Michael Sarrazin, Margot Kidder and Jennifer O'Neill, and be directed by J. Lee Thompson. The novel came out in October - the Los Angeles Times called it "riveting".Principal photography began on 24 April 1974 in Los Angeles and Massachusetts.

Release
The Reincarnation of Peter Proud premiered in New York City on April 25, 1975, and subsequently opened in Los Angeles on May 2.

Critical response
The Reincarnation of Peter Proud received a mixed response from critics upon its release. Steven H. Scheuer labelled the film as a "clunky yarn". Mick Martin and Marsha Porter awarded the film their "turkey" rating and criticized it for its "turgid direction" and "contrived plot". Leslie Halliwell also panned the film as a "hysterical psychic melodrama which pretty well ruins its own chances by failing to explain its plot". The Philadelphia Inquirer's Desmond Ryan dismissed the film as "an obtuse essay into the much trampled world of the occult, and it is aptly named since it seems to take several lifetimes to trudge through the film from its modest beginnings to its silly conclusion."Some critics were more generous. Leonard Maltin wrote that the film was "moderately gripping". A.H. Weiler, like Halliwell, was unconvinced by the film's plot, but lauded it for its "polished [filmic] treatment" and Thompson's "properly moody [directorial] style".In a retrospective review, Michael Barrett of PopMatters praised the film's cinematography and editing, which he notes provides "a sense of propulsion to what, in other hands, might be a stagnantly paced story; either sound or image are continually pulling at us, like fate...  There's something about The Reincarnation of Peter Proud that keeps it lodged in the memory like a nasty splinter."

Home media
In 2018, Kino Lorber released The Reincarnation of Peter Proud in a special edition Blu-ray featuring a new 4K restoration of the original film elements.

Proposed remake
On November 9, 2009, it was announced that Andrew Kevin Walker and David Fincher (the writer and director, respectively, of Seven) would work on the remake, with Paramount Pictures and Columbia Pictures financing the project. Filming and theatrical release of the remake were planned for 2016, but as of 2018, the project was listed as "in development".New reports of a planned remake emerged in 2021, with development and production now handed over to David Goyer of Phantom Four Films in collaboration with Village Roadshow, and with Sean Durkin serving as writer and director.

See also
List of American films of 1975
Karz, 1980 Indian film which serves as a partial remake
Passage 10:
Unmistaken Child
Unmistaken Child is a 2008 independent documentary film, which follows a Tibetan Buddhist monk's search for the reincarnation of his beloved teacher, a world-renowned lama. It was directed by Nati Baratz.

Plot
The documentary follows a Tibetan Buddhist monk's search for the reincarnation of his beloved teacher, the world-renowned lama (master teacher) Geshe Lama Konchog. The filming, which began in October 2001, spans a time frame of five and a half years. It follows the deceased lama's closest disciple – a modest young monk named Tenzin Zopa, who speaks English well – as he seeks to find the child who is his master's reincarnation.
Because Tenzin is only a humble monk, he questions his ability to accurately find and recognize the reincarnation of an enlightened master. He is daunted by the difficulty of the task, for which he alone seems responsible.
Following a combination of prayer, intuition, and various forms of divination, Tenzin travels to the tiny villages of the remote Tsum Valley on the Nepal–Tibet border, and checks many families and many children. He seeks to find a young boy of the right age who responds emotionally to one of his former master's possessions. Still, many questions would remain, and many tests and trials must be met before the existence of a tulku – a reincarnated Tibetan master – could be confirmed. And even beyond the question of the confirmation of a reincarnation is the emotional toll involved in removing a small child from his loving parents and familiar village.

Inception
The film was created, directed, and written by Israeli filmmaker Nati Baratz. He and his wife had attended a lecture given by Tenzin Zopa, who at the end asked everyone to pray for the location of the reincarnation of Geshe Lama Konchog, his recently deceased teacher."Tenzin really touched me in a profound way", Baratz said in an interview. “He has a huge heart, and he's very smart. And when I heard that he’s looking for the reincarnation of his master, I thought this is a movie I must make."

Release, broadcast, and DVD
Unmistaken Child was first screened at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 8, 2008. Festival screenings in Berlin, San Francisco, and other festivals around the world followed. The film opened in limited theatrical release in the U.S. in June 2009, and subsequently in limited theatrical release around the world.
Unmistaken Child was selected for and aired on the award-winning PBS series Independent Lens in April 2010. Oscilloscope Laboratories published the film on DVD in 2009.

Awards
Full Frame Documentary Film Festival
Full Frame Inspiration Award
Anne Dellinger Special Jury Award
The Charles E. Guggenheim Emerging Artist Award – Honorable MentionRiverRun International Film Festival
Best DocumentaryEBS International Documentary Festival
Grand Prix
Audience AwardIndependent Film Festival Boston
Special Jury Prize – DocumentaryCamerimage
Grand Prix – Feature Documentary FilmHaifa International Film Festival
Best DocumentaryKrakow Film Festival
Golden Horn – Best Documentary
Cracow Students Jury Award – Best Documentary

See also
Tenzin Phuntsok Rinpoche
Tulku (film)
My Reincarnation
Pearl relics