Passage 1:
Dr. Socrates
Dr. Socrates is a 1935 American crime film directed by William Dieterle and starring Paul Muni as a doctor forced to treat a wounded gangster, played by Barton MacLane.

Plot
The death of his fiancée in a car crash so unnerves top surgeon Dr. Lee Cardwell that he moves to a rural community and becomes a general practitioner, but he attracts few patients.  The local doctor calls him Dr. Socrates because he always has his head in a book of classics. 
Bank robber Red Bastian comes to him after he is shot in the arm during his latest caper. Lee treats Red, but is unwillingly to accept payment. Red, however, makes him take a $100 bill for his trouble.
Later on, while on his way to another bank job, Red picks up hitchhiker Josephine Gray.  While Red's gang is busy robbing the bank, Josephine tries to run away, but gets shot. She is treated by Dr. Socrates.  At first, the police think that she is a gang "moll", but she is cleared and recuperates at the doctor's home.
Red and his gang kidnap her and take her to their hideout, which the doctor had visited earlier on a medical call. He tells the police where to find the gang, but asks that they give him a chance to get Josephine safely away. He convinces the gang members that they need to be inoculated against an outbreak of typhoid fever, but what he really gives them is a knockout drug.  He takes care of Red himself.  Lee is a hero, and even the local doctor says nice things about him.

Cast
Paul Muni as Lee
Ann Dvorak as Josephine
Barton MacLane as Red Bastian
Robert Barrat as Dr. Ginder
John Eldredge as Dr. Burton
Hobart Cavanaugh as Stevens
Helen Lowell as Ma Ganson
Mayo Methot as Muggsy
Henry O'Neill as Greer
Grace Stafford as Caroline Suggs
Samuel Hinds as Dr. McClintick
June Travis as Dublin
Raymond Brown as Ben Suggs
Olin Howland as Bob Catlett
Joseph Downing as Cinq Laval
Grady Sutton as General Store Clerk
Adrian Morris as Beanie - a Gangster

Critical reception
Writing for The Spectator in 1936, Graham Greene gave the film a poor review, dismissing it as "a third-rate gangster film". Despite comparing Paul Muni's performance to personality performers like Greta Garbo and Joan Crawford, Greene concludes that his effort in Dr Socrates "is not one of Muni's successful films". Whereas the film should have been exciting, all that the film could conjure up was funniness.
Passage 2:
Empties
Empties (Czech: Vratné lahve) is a 2007 film directed by Jan Svěrák and written by his father Zdeněk Svěrák, who also stars in the film. It was released first in the Czech Republic in March 2007. The film is a comedy from the same team which made Kolya.

Plot
Josef Tkaloun is an elderly teacher at a high school in Prague who cannot control his anger when his pupils misbehave in his poetry class. He quits his job and despite his wife urging him to retire, becomes a cycle courier. After an inevitable accident, he still refuses to stay at home and takes a job in the local Žižkov supermarket. He works behind a counter, recycling glass beer bottles. There he begins to flirt with the customers and matchmake both for an old friend and for the man he works with. His own flirtations (and sexually charged dreams) almost get him into trouble with his wife, so he resolves to reignite the passion in his marriage by celebrating his wedding anniversary with a hot air balloon ride. The scary balloon ride, ending in crash, revitalizes the relationship.

Cast
Zdeněk Svěrák as Josef Tkaloun
Tatiana Vilhelmová as Helenka, his daughter
Daniela Kolářová as Eliška Tkalounová
Jiří Macháček as Landa, his friend
Pavel Landovský as Řezáč

Awards
Zdeněk Svěrák received a Special Jury Mention for the screenplay at the 2007 Karlovy Vary International Film Festival
The film received the Audience Award at 2007 Ljubljana International Film Festival
The film received the Gold Dolphin award for Best Film at the Festroia International Film Festival in 2008.
The film received the Gold Prize for Best Film at Damascus International Film Festival in 2008.

Home media
The DVD was released in October 2007. It includes extra scenes, a photo gallery, the storyboard and comics.
Passage 3:
King of the Underworld (1939 film)
King of the Underworld is a 1939 American crime drama film starring Humphrey Bogart as a gangster and Kay Francis as a doctor forced to treat him. It was directed by Lewis Seiler. It is a remake of the 1935 film Dr. Socrates, which was based on a short story by W. R. Burnett.

Plot
Married doctors Niles and Carole Nelson save the life of a gangster shot in a gunfight. Joe Gurney, the patient's boss, gives Niles $500 as a reward, and suggests he take his "million dollar hands" uptown, where he can treat the rich. Niles takes his suggestion, but soon neglects his practice for his addiction: betting on the horses.
The doctor also starts treating Joe's gang without telling his wife. One night, he is called away to do just that. Suspicious, Carole follows him. When the police raid the gang's hideout, a shootout ensues and Niles is killed while Joe and his gang escape.
Though the district attorney has no case, he charges Carole with being guilty of being married to Niles just to put on a good show for the public. The corrupt trial ends in a hung jury, but her medical license remains at stake.  She is given three months to prove her innocence or the license will be revoked. She relocates with her Aunt Josephine to a town, Wayne Center, where two of Joe's men have been jailed, hoping to get in touch with the gangster.
While on his way to free his men, Joe has a flat tire. He and his amateur gang initially suspects nearby wanderer Bill Stevens of having shot at him, but then a nail is extracted from the tire. When Bill mentions that he has written a book about the mistakes that brought about Napoleon's downfall, Joe becomes very interested, as he is a great admirer of the French dictator. He offers Bill a ride. Bill makes the mistake of accepting, and soon finds himself shot in the shoulder when Joe and his gang rescue their comrades from the sheriff. Bill is caught.
When local Doctor Sanders refuses to treat the alleged criminal, Carole extracts the bullet. However, Bill is unable to provide her any useful information about Joe. When Bill's claims are confirmed, he is released. He goes to thank Carole. Aunt Josephine persuades him to stay with them for a week to recuperate.
Joe has Bill kidnapped in the middle of the night so that he can ghostwrite Joe's autobiography. Joe likes Bill's suggestion for the title, Joe Gurney: the Napoleon of Crime, but Bill overhears his plan to kill him after the book is finished.
Carole is brought, blindfolded, to remove a bullet from Joe's arm, received during the rescue. Before being released, she is told that Bill will be killed if she alerts the authorities.
When Joe's wound gets worse, he sends for her again. He also complains about his eyes. Carole takes a sample to analyze at home. When she is warned that the sheriff and government men are coming to arrest her (a $100 bill Joe gave her was traced to a robbery), she devises a plan. She returns to Joe's hideout and tells him he has a serious infection, one that will make him go blind in six hours unless it is treated immediately with eye drops. She also insists the infection is so contagious she needs to treat all of the gang. Suspicious, Joe makes her administer the medicine to Bill first. Meanwhile, her aunt gives the police Joe's location, but begs them to wait until midnight to give the medication time to temporarily blind the recipients. The plan works. The blind gangsters return fire, but soon give themselves up. Joe tries to track Carole and Bill through the house, but is eventually gunned down by the police.
Bill becomes a successful writer, and he and Carole have a son.

Cast
Humphrey Bogart as Joe Gurney
Kay Francis as Dr. Carole Nelson
James Stephenson as Bill Stevens
John Eldredge as Dr. Niles Nelson
Jessie Busley as Aunt Josephine
Arthur Aylesworth as Dr. Sanders
Raymond Brown as Sheriff
Harland Tucker as Mr. Ames
Ralph Remley as Mr. Robert
Charley Foy as Slick
Murray Alper as Eddie
Joe Devlin as Porky
Elliott Sullivan as Mugsy
Alan Davis as Pete
John Harmon as Slats
John Ridgely as Jerry
Richard Bond as Interne
Pierre Watkin as District Attorney
Charles Trowbridge as Dr. Ryan
Edwin Stanley as Dr. Jacobs (credited as Ed Stanley)
Sidney Bracey as Bert, the Farmer (uncredited)
Al Lloyd as Drug Store Clerk (uncredited)
Mickey Kuhn as "Sonny" Stevens (uncredited)
Passage 4:
Vacations in the Other World
Vacations in the Other World or Vacaciones en el otro mundo is a 1942 Argentine film directed by Mario Soffici. The film, a seriocomedy, explores the gap between the high-pressure world of business and the ambience of domestic living.

Cast
Elisa Galvé
José Olarra
Oscar Valicelli
Enrique García Satur
Enrique Chaico
Lea Conti
Julio Renato
Semillita
Elvira Quiroga

External links
Vacations in the Other World at IMDb
Passage 5:
Coney Island Baby (film)
Coney Island Baby is a 2003 comedy-drama in which film producer Amy Hobby made her directorial debut. Karl Geary wrote the film and Tanya Ryno was the film's producer. The music was composed by Ryan Shore. The film was shot in Sligo, Ireland, which is known locally as "Coney Island".
The film was screened at the Newport International Film Festival. Hobby won the Jury Award for "Best First Time Director".
The film made its premiere television broadcast on the Sundance Channel.

Plot
After spending time in New York City, Billy Hayes returns to his hometown. He wants to get back together with his ex-girlfriend and take her back to America in hopes of opening up a gas station. But everything isn't going Billy's way - the townspeople aren't happy to see him, and his ex-girlfriend is engaged and pregnant. Then, Billy runs into his old friends who are planning a scam.

Cast
Karl Geary - Billy Hayes
Laura Fraser - Bridget
Hugh O'Conor - Satchmo
Andy Nyman - Franko
Patrick Fitzgerald - The Duke
Tom Hickey - Mr. Hayes
Conor McDermottroe - Gerry
David McEvoy - Joe
Thor McVeigh - Magician
Sinead Dolan - Julia

Music
The film's original score was composed by Ryan Shore.

External links
Coney Island Baby (2006) at IMDb
MSN - Movies: Coney Island Baby
Passage 6:
Vacations in Majorca
Vacations in Majorca (Italian: Brevi amori a Palma di Majorca) is a 1959 Italian comedy film directed by Giorgio Bianchi.

Plot
Anselmo Pandolfini lives in Palma de Mallorca. He meets a famous American diva Mary Moore who initially dislikes him, but persuades her to let him act as her bodyguard.

Cast
Alberto Sordi: Anselmo Pandolfini
Gino Cervi: André Breton
Belinda Lee: Mary Moore
Dorian Gray: Hélène
Antonio Cifariello: Ernesto
Rossana Martini: Angela
Mercedes Alonso: Clementina
Vicente Parra: Gianni
Giulio Paradisi: Miguel

Production
The cast featured British actor Belinda Lee, then based in Europe.
Passage 7:
Bommalattam (2008 film)
Final Cut of Director is a 2016 Indian Hindi-language action thriller film that was written and directed by Bharathiraja. The film stars Nana Patekar and Arjun Sarja, with Rukmini Vijayakumar, Kajal Aggarwal, Niyamat Khan, Vatsal Sheth, and Mushtaq Khan in supporting roles. Himesh Reshammiya composed the music and cinematography was done by B. Kannan. The film was released on 21 October 2016.
The film, which was originally titled Cinema, was retitled Final Cut of Director and had a limited release in 2016. Final Cut of Director marks Tamil director Bharathiraja's return to Hindi cinema after a gap. The film was intended to be the Hindi debut of Arjun Sarja but its release was delayed.
Final Cut of Director was first released in Tamil as Bommalattam (transl. Puppet show) in 2008. The Tamil version was mostly dubbed from the Hindi version but some scenes were re-filmed with Arjun, Ranjitha, Manivannan, who replaced Mushtaq Khan, and  Vivek. Despite being filmed in Hindi, Final Cut of Director failed financially in Hindi markets but the Tamil version was a success. Rukhmini Vijayakumar's portrayal of a transgender woman was praised.

Plot
Film director Rana is filming a scene with the female lead of his upcoming film. Rana is unhappy with the actor's behaviour and he decides to find another female lead. He finally finds Trishna suitable but never discloses her identity to the media, and the film's wallpapers do not show the names of the male and female leads. The film is eventually completed and Rana must attend a press meeting about his film's release but he does not attend the meeting and is shown to have had an illegal relationship with Trishna. At this instant, the film's producer calls Rana and the media discovers his location and who he is with. Press reporters gather at the hotel where Rana is staying; he escapes from them and get into a car. The press chase him, and Rana kills Trishna by creating an accident-like situation.
SP Vivek Varma, a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officer, takes charge of this murder case along with two previous murder cases in which Rana is also a suspect. Rana is arrested and taken into CBI custody and Vivek starts his interrogation. Meanwhile, a poet named Anitha, who is a superfan of Rana, is revealed to be Vivek's lover and worked as an assistant to Rana during his filmmaking. During the interrogation, Rana reveals how he met Trishna and their relationship.
Trishna was a dancer who performed in temples and at small-time shows across Andhra Pradesh. Rana hires Trishna as his muse, and they become lovers. When a hairdresser is left homeless, Rana offers her a place in his room; another unit member sees this and informs Rana's wife. The next morning, as Rana is having sex with Trishna, his wife arrives, beats up the hairdresser, and accuses Rana of being a womanizer. Rana continues filming, appearing to be unperturbed by the incident but cries while instructing his actors. His assistant notices this; she and Rana are also shown to be lovers, and she comforts Rana. At the village in which they are filming, the village chief is notorious and constantly lusts over Trishna. Rana states he will kill the chief if he causes more inconvenience. The next day, the chief is murdered. Vivek recalls this and states Rana committed this murder but Rana neither agrees with or denies this statement.
Rana faints shortly after the interrogation and is taken to hospital. Vivek follows him there and recollects the incident of the second murder. After finishing their schedule at the village, the unit travels to Malaysia to continue the filming. There, Rana has to meet the financier's son, who is also the film's second male lead. The financier's son flirts with Trishna and constantly tries to approach her, with which she is uncomfortable. Shortly afterwards, the financier' son is also found murdered and Rana again neither agrees or denies this murder. Anitha, upon witnessing what Vivek is doing, confronts him and accuses him of trying to pin down Rana. Anitha offers Vivek her body in exchange for him leaving Rana alone. Vivek tells Anitha about the complications of the investigation. A badly burnt body in a car that fell from a cliff belongs to a man and all of the evidence at the crime scene is fake and used as props for filmmaking.
With the mystery unsolved, Rana is released due to the absence of strong evidence to convict him. He goes to live in a secluded bungalow with his assistant. Vivek follows Rana there and uncovers the mystery. Trishna is revealed to be a man whose real name is Babu and comes from a very poor background. Babu's mother raised him as a girl so his demeanor has become feminine since he is small. Rana sees an opportunity to introduce Babu as a female hero and provide financial aid to his struggling family. Babu  killed the village chief, who discovered Babu's true sex and demanded Babu have sex with him in return for concealing the truth. Babu also killed the financier's son, who falsely told Babu he has photographed Babu while he was bathing. Rana asks Vivek to give Babu the lightest-available sentence but Vivek decides to release him. Rana thanks Vivek, who says Rana is a greater human being than he is a director.

Cast
Tamil version
Production
Final Cut of Director was launched in Malaysia in 2006 with the title Cinema for the Hindi version and Bommalattam for the Tamil version. Bharathiraja decided to make the film in Hindi after casting Nana Patekar to play Rana. Vikram was initially considered to play Arjun's role. Arjun Sarja was cast as Vivek, a CBI officer although he was not fluent in Hindi. Rukmini Vijayakumar was cast in an important role. The film was to be made in Hindi and dubbed into Tamil. Cinema was based on a true incident that took place in Hampi. The film was mostly made in Mumbai and Goa. Scenes involving Nana Patekar and Arjun Sarja were shot in Chennai. Nana and Bharathiraja fought during filming; according to Bharathiraja; "We fought with each other a couple of times. However the fights helped us to sharpen our thoughts and to shape the movie in a nice way."  Nagravi of Insight Media bought the film's rights. Bharathiraja and cinematographer Kannan said Final Cut of Director is one of the best films they had made.Final Cut of Director was originally the film lead debut of Kajal Aggarwal, who appeared in a Hindi film called Kyun! Ho Gaya Na..., but Final Cut of Director was delayed and Lakshmi Kalyanam became her first release.

Soundtrack
The soundtrack was composed by Himesh Reshammiya.
Hindi versionLyrics by Sameer.

"Zindagi" – Sunidhi Chauhan
"Dhola Dholiya" – Afsar, Sneha Panth
"Chakle Chakle" – Akriti Kakkar
"Aaha Aaha" – Himesh Reshammiya, Manjeera Ganguly
"Leja Leja" – Gayatri Iyer Ganjawala
Tamil versionLyrics by Snehan, Thenmozhi Das and Viveka.
"Aaha Aaha" – Karthik, Pop Shalini
"Check Check" – Suchithra
"Nenjil Dola" – Anuradha Sriram
"Va Va Thalaiva" – Gayathri
"Koyambedu" – Mathangi

Release
The Hindi and Tamil versions of Final Cut of Director were scheduled for release in 2008 but the Hindi version's release was postponed. The Tamil version was scheduled to release in June 2008 but was delayed until December. The Tamil version was a box office success. The Hindi version of Final Cut of Director was released in October 2016 and went unnoticed due to lack of promotion.

Critical reception
Nowrunning wrote: "Like aged and mellowed spirits, director Bharati Raja has matured and levitated towards one of his first loves—a whodunit". Behindwoods wrote: "Bommalattam is a perfectly crafted and executed investigative thriller. The surprise factor being Bharathiraja’s tautly woven screenplay—it negates the chance of tedium, even for a fraction of a second." The critic added; "Irregular lip-sync of actors also reveal that the movie is in fact dubbed into Tamil after having been shot in Hindi directly". Sify wrote; "hats off to Bharathiraja for creating a taut thriller which is a masterpiece of moods, anxieties and dread. Quite simply, unmissable." Rediff wrote: "Bharathiraja's screenplay lacks punch. He seems to have been confused about whether to give importance to the characters themselves, or the thriller portion." The Hindu wrote: "The pluses of Bommalattam place Bharatiraaja on a pedestal. The minuses play spoilsport." The critic said; "It’s obvious that many of the scenes have been filmed in Hindi alone—flawed lip sync makes a mockery of some of the serious scenes".

Accolades
2008
Vijay Award for Best Make Up Artistes – Vanitha Krishnamoorthy, Harinath – Nominated
Ananda Vikatan Cinema Awards – Best Debut Actress – Rukmini Vijayakumar – Won
Passage 8:
Single Video Theory
Single Video Theory is a music documentary directed by Mark Pellington that follows the making of Yield, the fifth album by the American alternative rock band Pearl Jam. It was released first on VHS on August 4, 1998, and then on DVD on November 24, 1998.

Overview
The film was shot in 16mm film over three days in November 1997 in downtown Seattle. It features interviews with the band members and behind-the-scenes footage of the band's rehearsal sessions for its shows opening for The Rolling Stones. The term "single video theory" is a play on the "single-bullet theory," involving the assassination of John F. Kennedy.
The documentary illustrates how the band began to widen the songwriting responsibilities of its members, with bassist Jeff Ament credited with writing "Pilate" and "Low Light", and guitarist Mike McCready taking part in writing "Given to Fly" with vocalist Eddie Vedder. It was the first insight into the band's inner workings of its recording sessions, which had previously been shielded from the public. AllMusic gave it three out of a possible five stars. Allmusic staff writer Perry Seibert said, "The intimate musical performances will interest any fan of the band." Single Video Theory has been certified platinum by the RIAA.

Track listing
"All Those Yesterdays"
"Faithfull"
"Brain of J."
"Given to Fly"
"No Way"
"MFC"
"Wishlist"
"In Hiding"
"Low Light"
"Do the Evolution"

Personnel
Chart positions
Passage 9:
DR
DR, Dr, dr, or variation, may refer to:

Doctor (title), a person who has obtained a doctoral degree or a courtesy title for a medical or dental practitioner

Businesses
DR Handmade Strings, a manufacturer of guitar strings
DR (broadcaster), a Danish government-owned radio and television public broadcasting company
D/R or Design Research, a retail lifestyle store chain (1953–1978)
DR Motor Company, an Italian automobile company
Depositary receipt, negotiable financial instrument issued by a bank to represent a foreign company's publicly traded securities
Deutsche Reichsbahn (East Germany), former German railway company
Digital Research, a defunct software company
Duane Reade, a New York pharmacy chain
Ruili Airlines (IATA code DR), a Chinese airline

Places
Dominican Republic, a country on the eastern portion of the Caribbean island of Hispaniola
Dadar railway station, Mumbai, India (Central railway station code)

Science and technology
Dead reckoning, the process of estimating a global position
Demand response, a method of managing consumer consumption of electricity
Disaster recovery, secondary site to switchover or failover to if the primary site does not survive
Designated Router, a concept used in routing protocol OSPF
Design rationale, an explicit documentation of the reasons behind decisions made when designing a system or artifact
Digital radiography, a form of x-ray imaging, where digital X-ray sensors are used instead of traditional photographic film
Dram, a unit of mass and volume
Dynamic range, the ratio between the largest and smallest possible values of a changeable quantity, such as ind sound and light
Dose–response relationship, describes the change in effect on an organism caused by differing levels of exposure
Dreieckrechner, a German flight computer manufactured as of the 1930s (model DR2) and the 1940s (model DR3)

Other uses
Dalereckoning, a fictional numbering of years in the Forgotten Realms campaign setting of the Dungeons & Dragons game
Data Room, a space used for housing data, usually of a secure or privileged nature
Death row, a prison or section of a prison that houses prisoners awaiting execution
Democratic Republic, designating a country that is both a democracy and a republic
Derealization, an alteration in the perception of the external world such that it seems unreal
Diário da República, the official gazette of the government of Portugal
Disaster recovery, policies, tools and procedures for recovering IT or technology systems supporting critical business functions
Douay–Rheims Bible, a translation of the Christian Bible
Danganronpa, a video game series and anime commonly known by this name by fans.
Dress rehearsal (disambiguation),  a full-scale rehearsal where the actors and/or musicians perform every detail of the performance prior to its first public performance
Diminishing returns
Deltarune, a game by Toby Fox

See also

Digital recorder (disambiguation)
Doctor (disambiguation)
All pages with titles beginning with dr

All pages with titles beginning with DR
All pages with titles containing DR
RD (disambiguation)
Passage 10:
The Wonderful World of Captain Kuhio
The Wonderful World of Captain Kuhio (クヒオ大佐, Kuhio Taisa, lit. "Captain Kuhio") is a 2009 Japanese comedy-crime film, directed by Daihachi Yoshida, based on Kazumasa Yoshida's 2006 biographical novel, Kekkon Sagishi Kuhio Taisa (lit. "Marriage swindler Captain Kuhio"), that focuses on a real-life marriage swindler, who conned over 100 million yen (US$1.2 million) from a number of women between the 1970s and the 1990s.The film was released in Japan on 10 October 2009.

Cast
Masato Sakai - Captain Kuhio
Yasuko Matsuyuki - Shinobu Nagano
Hikari Mitsushima - Haru Yasuoka
Yuko Nakamura - Michiko Sudo
Hirofumi Arai - Tatsuya Nagano
Kazuya Kojima - Koichi Takahashi
Sakura Ando - Rika Kinoshita
Masaaki Uchino - Chief Fujiwara
Kanji Furutachi - Shigeru Kuroda
Reila Aphrodite
Sei Ando

Awards
At the 31st Yokohama Film Festival
Best Actor – Masato Sakai
Best Supporting Actress – Sakura Ando