Passage 1:
Nola Fairbanks
Nola Fairbanks (born Nola Jo Modine; December 10, 1924 – February 8, 2021) was an American actress. She was also the aunt of actor Matthew Modine.

Early life
Fairbanks was born Nola Jo Modine in Santa Paula, California, on December 10, 1924, the daughter of Zella Vonola Fairbanks and Alexander Revard Modine. She is the granddaughter of Mormon pioneers Ralph Jacobus Fairbanks (aka R.J. "Dad" Fairbanks) and Celestia Adelaide (Johnson) Fairbanks, from Payson, Utah and Death Valley, California. She is a descendant of Jonathan Fairbanks, whose 17th century wood-frame house still stands in Dedham, Massachusetts.As a child, she joined the Meglin Kiddies Dance Troupe where Shirley Temple was also a student. While her father, Alexander Revard Modine, worked for the Texaco Oil Company, Nola Jo's mother, Zella Vonola Fairbanks Modine, washed clothes to pay for her singing and dancing lessons during the Great Depression.

Career
Her only movie role was as a "glorified extra" in The Corn Is Green in 1945, starring Bette Davis. Soon after, she joined the Lionel Barrymore production of the musical, Halloween at the Hollywood Bowl, and performed on The Standard Hour in addition to the Hollywood Canteen for servicemen.
Next, she went on tour as a soloist with the Sonja Henie Ice Show, completing two national tours. When the tours ended in New York, she stayed on with the show, named Howdy Mr. Ice at the Center Theatre in Rockefeller Center.
Her Broadway debut was in 1950 in the chorus of Cole Porter's Out of This World
. She soon became an understudy and before long, assumed the lead. Summer stock performances included Miss Liberty with Dick Haymes in the Dallas Theatre as well as Die Fledermaus and finally Bloomer Girl in Toronto, Canada. Next, she joined the Broadway cast of Paint Your Wagon opposite James Barton, when Olga San Juan left the role of Jennifer Rumson. She took the show on tour with Burl Ives in the part of her father, Ben Rumson. 
In 1952, she starred in the first musical production at the new Jones Beach Theatre in Long Island, New York. Mike Todd was the producer of this production of the Johann Strauss II operetta Eine Nacht in Venedig starring alongside Enzo Stuarti and Thomas Hayward.
After a winning performance on The Arthur Godfrey Radio Show, she appeared on his television show. Her final Broadway performance came when she was asked to replace Florence Henderson in the lead role in Fanny, co-starring Ezio Pinza.
She revived her career in 1978 with appearances in a short-lived sketch comedy TV series, Madhouse Brigade, produced by her husband. In 1981, he produced an off-Broadway show called Romance Is where Fairbanks performed with an ensemble cast. The show closed after a few performances.

Personal life
Fairbanks married James Larkin in 1954 and had four children. They divorced in 1990. She died on February 8, 2021, at the age of 96, in Greenwich, Connecticut.
Passage 2:
Emel Say
Emel Say (1927 – 17 February 2011) was a Turkish painter. She was the daughter of painter Zehra Say and the aunt of pianist Fazıl Say.

Life
Emel Say was born in 1927. Her grandfather was a politician, who left the Committee of Union and Progress and opened a dance hall. Her mother Zehra Say was the first woman in modern Turkey to be married at an official wedding. Emel's mind was always on music. When she was fifteen, she received singing classes from Professor Carl Ebert, who had established the Ankara Conservatory. At first, Emel Say wanted to be an opera artist, but she changed her mind when she fell in love with a piece of land in Hatay, southern Turkey. She had to put her interest in music on hold when she married. Her husband Fuat Say, unlike the tolerance that Fuat Say had shown her mother Zehra, did not send Emel to school, nor was this really possible in Hatay at the time. Raising her three sons was the only thing she did until she divorced her husband when she was 30 years old.
After her divorce, her interest in music did not come to fruition; her mother got sick, so she had to focus on getting a job and income. She started her work life as the secretary of Fuat Bezmen. She worked for him for around ten years.She worked in the United States for about five years.When her mother, the famous painter Zehra Say, went into the later stages of Alzheimer's disease, she was no longer able to continue painting. Zehra made her daughter Emel promise to finish her painting Maui Adası (Island of Maui), which she had started to paint from a postcard Emel had brought back from a trip to Hawaii. She did not know how she could paint. At first, she cried but then she tried to paint and from that point on did not stop. She completed her mother's painting and it was displayed at an exhibition at the Çiçek Bar. There she was discovered by the sculptor Gürdal Duyar who at first asked what had happened to Maui Adası, and then when Emel told him that her mother had insisted she finish it, she tried at it. Duyar expressed to her that she was a natural talent and had been a painter within all along. If it was not for this reassuring encounter she may not have gone into painting at all in her life. She started painting after the age of 60.Together with Duyar, who became a close friend of hers and other friends and family, she would often work on paintings and listen to music together late into the night. One of these nights, Duyar made a portrait for one of Fazıl's musician friends starting at midnight and finishing towards the morning as recalled by this friend of Fazıl's.Say died in 2011.

Art
She was a student in the studio of the painter Osman Özal. She, together with the other (former) students, would meet on Wednesdays at the İzmir Art and Sculpture Museum, and work in the studio there. They became known as the "Group Wednesday", and held collaborative exhibitions.She and Duyar had exhibitions at the CEP Gallery in the time period between 1977 and 1990.In 1995, her work, along with the work of Gürdal Duyar, was exhibited in the grand opening exhibition of the Asmalımescit Art Gallery.

Technique
She made many miniatures. One of the techniques she often used was using two different types of paint in the same painting, acrylic and gouache.

Exhibitions
Emel Say painting exhibition, Underground Art Gallery (till 20 May 1992)
Asmalımescit Art Gallery grand opening exhibition (1995)
Emel Say painting exhibition, Çatı Sanatevi (till 7 May 2000)
Emel Say painting exhibition, Underground Art Gallery (till 21 May 2004)
9th exhibition, Çiçek Bar (till 18 December 2004)
Mixed Exhibition of works by Osman Özals students, Dr. Selahattin Akçiçek Culture and Art Center in Konak, İzmir (till 15 April 2012) but extended?

Friends and Family
She is proud of how her mother, Zehra Say, even after her marriage, went to school and became an art teacher, which was quite an accomplishment at that time. She is also proud of her father Fuat Say for supporting his wife, her mother. Say's uncle's grandson, Fazıl Say, did make a career of his musical talent. When talking about him, she said that he is "A Genius!", "When he was just four years old, his mother had bought a small organ, like a toy... Fazıl started to play the songs on the radio with this organ. How many times could a composer the likes of him come to this Earth!"She became friends with the poet and writer Gülsüm Cengiz around after her time in the United States. He was visiting her and Zehra at their home and they continued in conversation late into the night, and they learned about the 1960 military coup towards the morning after someone was banging on the door and they turned on the radio.She was also close friends with Gürdal Duyar, and they had exhibitions together.
Passage 3:
Marcus Annius Libo (consul 161)
Marcus Annius Libo (died 163) was a Roman senator. He was suffect consul in the nundinium of January-April 161 with Quintus Camurius Numisius Junior as his colleague. Libo was the nephew of emperor Antoninus Pius, and cousin to emperor Marcus Aurelius.
Libo came from a Roman family that had settled in Hispania generations before, and had returned to Rome more recently. His father was Marcus Annius Libo, consul in 128, and his mother was a noblewoman whose name has been surmised as Fundania, daughter of Lucius Fundanius Lamia Aelianus, consul in 116. Libo had a sister, Annia Fundania Faustina, wife of Titus Pomponius Proculus Vitrasius Pollio, whose second consulship was in 176.

Governor of Syria
The only portion of his cursus honorum we know is the portion immediately after Libo stepped down from his consulate. To support his co-emperor Lucius Verus' campaign against the Parthians, Marcus Aurelius appointed Libo governor of the province of Syria. Anthony Birley notes this was a surprising choice. "As Libo had been consul only the previous year, 161," writes Birley, "he must have been in his early thirties, and as a patrician must have lacked military experience." Syria was an important province, and the men picked to govern it were usually senior men with much military and administrative experience. Birley answers his own question, "It seems that Marcus' intention was to have on the spot a man he could rely."As governor, Libo quarreled with the emperor Lucius, taking the attitude that he would only follow the instructions that Marcus gave him. This angered Lucius, so when Libo suddenly died, rumor claimed that Lucius had Libo poisoned.When Libo died, Lucius Verus defied Marcus and married Libo's widow to his Greek freedman called Agaclytus. Accordingly, Marcus Aurelius attended neither the ceremony nor the banquet.
Passage 4:
Marcus Annius Verus (praetor)
Marcus Annius Verus (died 124 AD) was a distinguished Roman politician who lived in the 2nd century, served as a praetor and was the father of the Emperor Marcus Aurelius.

Life
He was the son of Roman senator Marcus Annius Verus and noblewoman Rupilia Faustina. His brother was the consul Marcus Annius Libo and his sister was Faustina the Elder, wife of Antoninus Pius. He married Domitia Lucilla, the heiress of a wealthy family which owned a tile factory. They had two children, Marcus Aurelius (born in 121, and who was also originally named Marcus Annius Verus), and Annia Cornificia Faustina (born in 123). Annius Verus died young while he held the office of praetor. Both his children were still young. The likeliest year of his death is 124.In his Meditations, Marcus Aurelius, who was only about 3 years old when his father died, says of him: "From what I heard of my father and my memory of him, modesty and manliness."

Nerva–Antonine family tree
Passage 5:
Lucius Neratius Priscus
Lucius Neratius Priscus was a Roman Senator and leading jurist, serving for a time as the head of the Proculeian school. He was suffect consul in the nundinium of May–June 97 as the colleague of Marcus Annius Verus.

Family
The origins of the gens Neratia lie in the Italian town of Saepinum in the heart of Samnium; Priscus' father was the homonymous suffect consul of the year 87. He is known to have a younger brother, Lucius Neratius Marcellus, who was adopted by their uncle Marcus Hirrius Fronto Neratius Pansa who was suffect consul in either 73 or 74 and co-opted into the Patrician class; Marcellus became suffect consul two years before Priscus, and ordinary consul in 129.The existence of a son with the identical name and consul in either 122 or 123, inferred from the existence of the possible governor of Pannonia Inferior, was disproved by a 1976 paper written by G. Camodeca, whose findings were embraced by Ronald Syme.

Career
Most of Priscus' advancement through the cursus honorum has been established. His first known office was as military tribune with Legio XXII Primigenia between c. 79 to c. 80, in Mogontiacum (modern Mainz). Next he held the office of quaestor (c. 83/84), and upon completion of this traditional Republican magistracy Priscus would be enrolled in the Senate. The two other magistracies followed: plebeian tribune (c. 85/86) and praetor (c. 88/89); usually a senator would govern either a public or imperial praetorian province before becoming a consul, but none is known for Priscus. After serving as suffect consul, Priscus was admitted to the collegia of the Septemviri epulonum, one of the four most prestigious ancient Roman priesthoods. He was also entrusted with governing, in succession, the imperial provinces of Germania Inferior (98-101), then Pannonia (102-105).The Digest of Justinian records that the emperor Trajan invoked the help of Priscus and Titius Aristo on a point of law.  According to the Historia Augusta, there was a rumor that Trajan considered making Priscus his heir to the empire, before finally deciding on Hadrian to succeed him. Despite being a potential rival for the throne, Priscus was one of the legal experts the emperor Hadrian relied on for advice. Sir Ronald Syme looks to have considered Priscus as being another name used by or for Publius Cornelius Tacitus.
Passage 6:
Marcus Annius Flavius Libo
Marcus Annius Flavius Libo was a Roman Senator who lived in the second half of the 2nd century and first half of the 3rd century. He was consul ordinarius in AD 204 with Lucius Fabius Cilo as his senior colleague.
Libo was a Patrician and came from Hispania Baetica. His grandfather was Marcus Annius Libo, who was made suffect consul in 161. His father of the same name was a legatus of Syria and may have been poisoned, possibly by his cousin, Lucius Verus. Libo was related to Lucius Verus through their mutual ancestor, Marcus Annius Verus, who was consul three times, and by marriage to Emperor Antoninus Pius, who married his grandfather's sister.
Passage 7:
Rupilia
The gens Rupilia, occasionally written Rupillia, was a minor plebeian family at ancient Rome.  Members of this gens are first mentioned in the latter part of the Republic, and Publius Rupilius obtained the consulship in 132 BC.  Few others achieved any prominence, but the name occurs once or twice in the consular fasti under the Empire.  The name is frequently confounded with the similar Rutilius.

Praenomina
The main praenomina of the Rupilii were Publius and Lucius, two of the most common names throughout Roman history.

Branches and cognomina
None of the Rupilii bore cognomina under the Republic, but as with other plebeian families most of them had individual surnames in imperial times.

Members
This list includes abbreviated praenomina.  For an explanation of this practice, see filiation.Publius Rupilius P. f. P. n., a fierce opponent of the Gracchi, became consul in 132 BC, the year after the murder of Tiberius Gracchus, whose followers he persecuted.  He brought the First Servile War to a close, then remained in Sicily to reorganize the province, receiving a triumph on his return.  He was prosecuted and condemned during the tribunate of Gaius Gracchus in 123, and died soon afterward.
Lucius Rupilius P. f. P. n., brother of Publius Rupilius, the consul, sought the aid of Scipio Aemilianus to obtain the consulship, but was not elected.
Lucius Rupilius, an actor known to the young Cicero.
Aulus Rupilius, a physician employed by Aulus Cluentius Habitus, whose mother, Sassia, bought a slave, Strato, from Rupilius, and had him tortured in the hope of obtaining evidence against her own son.  The slave knew nothing of value, and Sassia's scheme came to naught.
Publius Rupilius, a man of equestrian rank, was magister of the publicani of Bithynia.
Gaius Rupilius, an argentarius, or silversmith, named in an inscription.
Lucius Scribonius Libo Rupilius M. f. M. n. Frugi Bonus, consul suffectus, serving from May to August in AD 88.  He was the great-grandfather of Marcus Aurelius.  His descent from the Rupilii is unclear.
Rupilia L. f. M. n. Faustina, the grandmother of Marcus Aurelius, married Marcus Annius Verus.
Lucius Rupilius Appianus, one of the septemviri epulones at Brixia in Venetia and Histria.
Decimus Rupilius Severus, legate in Lycia and Pamphylia in AD 151, perhaps the same Severus who was consul suffectus at the end of 155.
Lucius Rupilius Au[...], legate of Sextius Lateranus, proconsul of Africa in AD 176.
Quintus Rupilius Q. f. Honoratus, of Mactar in Africa, raised to the equestrian order by Severus Alexander.
Rupilius Pisonianus, curator at Mactar and Mididi between 290 and 293 AD.
Rupilius Pisonianus, praefectus vigilum of Rome under Constans Caesar.

See also
List of Roman gentes
Passage 8:
Annia Fundania Faustina
Annia Fundania Faustina (died 192) was a noble Roman woman who lived in the Roman Empire during the 2nd century AD. She was the paternal cousin of Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius and his sister Annia Cornificia Faustina.

Life
Fundania Faustina was the daughter of the Roman consul Marcus Annius Libo and wife Fundania. Her brother was the younger Marcus Annius Libo who served as governor of Syria in 162. Fundania Faustina's maternal grandparents are inferred to be Lucius Fundanius Lamia Aelianus and his unknown wife; however her paternal grandparents are the Roman consul Marcus Annius Verus and Rupilia Faustina. She was born and raised in Rome.
Through her paternal grandmother, she was related to the ruling Nerva–Antonine dynasty of the Roman Empire. Her paternal aunt was Empress Faustina the Elder (wife of Emperor Antoninus Pius and mother of Empress Faustina the Younger) and her paternal uncle was praetor Marcus Annius Verus (father of Emperor Marcus Aurelius, the paternal grandmother of Empress Lucilla and Emperor Commodus).
Fundania Faustina, married the Roman Politician Titus Pomponius Proculus Vitrasius Pollio. She had two children with him who were:

Titus Fundanius Vitrasius Pollio; he was executed in 182 on the orders of Commodus on the charge of conspiracy against the emperor.
Vitrasia FaustinaBefore 180, her husband had died and Fundania Faustina never remarried. During the reign of her unstable paternal cousin Commodus (180-192), she decided to withdraw from public life and chose to live in retirement in Achaea. Before he was assassinated in 192, Commodus ordered Fundania Faustina's death and she was later executed in that year.

Sources
Septimius Severus: the African emperor, by Anthony Richard Birley Edition: 2 – 1999
From Tiberius to the Antonines: a history of the Roman Empire AD 14-192, by Albino Garzetti, 1974
Mutilation and transformation: damnatio memoriae and Roman imperial portraiture By Eric R. Varner 2004
Passage 9:
Marcus Annius Libo
Marcus Annius Libo was a Roman Senator active in the early second century AD.

Life
Libo came from the upper ranks of the Roman aristocracy. He was the son of Marcus Annius Verus, consul III in 126, and Rupilia Faustina. Annius Verus was Spanish of Roman descent. Rupilia was the daughter of Lucius Scribonius Libo Rupilius Frugi Bonus and Vitellia (daughter of emperor Vitellius). Libo is known to have had three siblings, two sisters and one brother. His elder sister was the Empress Faustina the Elder (mother of the Empress Faustina the Younger) and his younger sister (whose name is missing, but surmised to be Annia) was the wife of Gaius Ummidius Quadratus Sertorius Severus, suffect consul in 118. His brother was Marcus Annius Verus, the father of Marcus Aurelius.He was consul in 128 as the colleague of Lucius Nonius Calpurnius Torquatus Asprenas. Libo was the paternal uncle of the Emperor Marcus Aurelius.
Beyond his consulship, almost nothing is known of his senatorial career. During the reign of his brother-in-law, Antoninus Pius, he was one of seven witnesses to a Senatus consultum issued to the city of Cyzicus in 138, which sought approval for establishing a corpus juvenum for the education of young men.

Family
Libo married a noblewoman whose name has been surmised as Fundania, daughter of Lucius Fundanius Lamia Aelianus, consul in 116, and wife Rupilia Annia. They are known to have together two children:

Marcus Annius Libo, suffect consul in 161. He is known to have a son, Marcus Annius Flavius Libo.
Annia Fundania Faustina, wife of Titus Pomponius Proculus Vitrasius Pollio, consul II in 176

Nerva–Antonine family tree


== Sources ==
Passage 10:
Kawamura Sumiyoshi
Count Kawamura Sumiyoshi (川村 純義, 18 December 1836 – 12 August 1904), was an admiral in the Imperial Japanese Navy. Kawamura's wife Haru was the aunt of Saigō Takamori.

Biography
A native of Satsuma, Kawamura studied navigation at Tokugawa bakufu naval school at Nagasaki, the Nagasaki Naval Training Center. In 1868, he joined his Satsuma clansmen, and fought on the imperial side in the Boshin War of the Meiji Restoration as an army general. He was especially noted for his role in the Battle of Aizu-Wakamatsu.
Under the new Meiji government, he became an officer in the fledgling Imperial Japanese Navy, and steadily rose through the ranks. He became first Director of the Imperial Japanese Naval Academy in 1870 and taifu (senior vice minister) of Navy in 1872. He was in command of Japanese naval forces during the Taiwan Expedition of 1874.
During the Satsuma Rebellion, he was placed in command of all Imperial troops in September 1877 at the final Battle of Shiroyama near Kumamoto, when Saigō Takamori was killed (or committed seppuku). This battle, Saigō's last stand against the Meiji government, was the historical basis for the 2003 film The Last Samurai.
In 1878, Kawamura became sangi (councillor) and the second Navy Minister. He remained in that position until 1885 except when he was temporarily replaced by Enomoto Takeaki, and during that period he expanded the influence of people from Satsuma within the navy.
In 1884, he was ennobled with the title of hakushaku (count) under the kazoku peerage system. Later serving as court councillor and Privy Councillor, in 1901 he was given responsibility for the upbringing of the newborn Prince Michi (the future Emperor Hirohito) and his younger brother Prince Chichibu (Yasuhito).In 1904, Kawamura was posthumously appointed to the rank of admiral, setting a precedent for such honors. His cause of death remains unknown, setting a mystery.