Passage 1:
Reg Allen (set decorator)
Reg Allen (12 April 1917 – 30 March 1989) was an American set decorator. He was nominated for an Academy Award in the category Best Art Direction for the film Lady Sings the Blues.

Selected filmography
The Pink Panther (1963)
The Party (1968)
Lady Sings the Blues (1972)
Passage 2:
John Farrell (businessman)
John Farrell is the director of YouTube in Latin America.

Education
Farrell holds a joint MBA degree from the University of Texas at Austin and Instituto Tecnologico de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey (ITESM).

Career
His business career began at Skytel, and later at Iridium as head of Business Development, in Washington DC, where he supported the design and launched the first satellite location service in the world and established international distribution agreements.He co-founded Adetel, the first company to provide internet access to residential communities and businesses in Mexico. After becoming General Manager of Adetel, he developed a partnership with TV Azteca in order to create the first internet access prepaid card in the country known as the ToditoCard.  Later in his career, John Farrell worked for Televisa in Mexico City as Director of Business Development for Esmas.com. There he established a strategic alliance with a leading telecommunications provider to launch co-branded Internet and telephone services. He also led initial efforts to launch social networking services, leveraging Televisa’s content and media channels.

Google
Farrel joined Google in 2004 as Director of Business Development for Asia and Latin America. On April 7, 2008, he was promoted to the position of General Manager for Google Mexico, replacing Alonso Gonzalo. He is now director of YouTube in Latin America, responsible for developing audiences, managing partnerships and growing Google’s video display business. John is also part of Google’s Latin America leadership management team and contributes to Google’s strategy in the region. He is Vice President of the IAB (Interactive Advertising Bureau), a member of the AMIPCI (Mexican Internet Association) Advisory Board, an active Endeavor mentor, and member of YPO.
Passage 3:
Peter Levin
Peter Levin is an American director of film, television and theatre.

Career
Since 1967, Levin has amassed a large number of credits directing episodic television and television films. Some of his television series credits include Love Is a Many Splendored Thing, James at 15, The Paper Chase, Family, Starsky & Hutch, Lou Grant, Fame, Cagney & Lacey, Law & Order and Judging Amy.Some of his television film credits include Rape and Marriage: The Rideout Case (1980), A Reason to Live (1985), Popeye Doyle (1986), A Killer Among Us (1990), Queen Sized (2008) and among other films. He directed "Heart in Hiding", written by his wife Audrey Davis Levin, for which she received an Emmy for Best Day Time Special in the 1970s.
Prior to becoming a director, Levin worked as an actor in several Broadway productions. He costarred with Susan Strasberg in "[The Diary of Ann Frank]" but had to leave the production when he was drafted into the Army. He trained at the Carnegie Mellon University. Eventually becoming a theatre director, he directed productions at the Long Wharf Theatre and the Pacific Resident Theatre Company. He also co-founded the off-off-Broadway Theatre [the Hardware Poets Playhouse] with his wife Audrey Davis Levin and was also an associate artist of The Interact Theatre Company.
Passage 4:
Etan Boritzer
Etan Boritzer (born 1950) is an American writer of children’s literature who is best known for his book What is God? first published in 1989. His best selling What is? illustrated children's book series on character education and difficult subjects for children is a popular teaching guide for parents, teachers and child-life professionals.Boritzer gained national critical acclaim after What is God? was published in 1989 although the book has caused controversy from religious fundamentalists for its universalist views. The other current books in the What is? series include: What is Love?, What is Death?, What is Beautiful?, What is Funny?, What is Right?, What is Peace?, What is Money?, What is Dreaming?, What is a Friend?, What is True?, What is a Family?, and What is a Feeling? The series is now also translated into 15 languages.
Boritzer was first published in 1963 at the age of 13 when he wrote an essay in his English class at Wade Junior High School in the Bronx, New York on the assassination of John F. Kennedy. His essay was included in a special anthology by New York City public school children compiled and published by the New York City Department of Education.
Boritzer now lives in Venice, California and maintains his publishing office there also. He has helped numerous other authors to get published through How to Get Your Book Published! programs. Boritzer is also a yoga teacher who teaches regular classes locally and guest-teaches nationally. He is also recognized nationally as an erudite speaker on The Teachings of the Buddha.
Passage 5:
Michael Govan
Michael Govan (born 1963) is the director of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. Prior to his current position, Govan worked as the director of the Dia Art Foundation in New York City.

Early life and education
Govan was born in 1963 in North Adams, Massachusetts, and was raised in the Washington D.C. area, attending Sidwell Friends School.He majored in art history and fine arts at Williams College, where he met Thomas Krens, who was then director of the Williams College Museum of Art. Govan became closely involved with the museum, serving as acting curator as an undergraduate. After receiving his B.A. from Williams in 1985, Govan began an MFA in fine arts from the University of California, San Diego.

Career
As a twenty-five year old graduate student, Govan was recruited by his former mentor at Williams, Thomas Krens, who in 1988 had been appointed director of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation. Govan served as deputy director of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum under Krens from 1988 to 1994, a period that culminated in the construction and opening of the Frank Gehry designed Guggenheim branch in Bilbao, Spain. Govan supervised the reinstallation of the museum's permanent collection galleries after its extensive renovation.

Dia Art Foundation
From 1994 to 2006, Govan was president and director of Dia Art Foundation in New York City. There, he spearheaded the conversion of a Nabisco box factory into the 300,000 square foot Dia:Beacon in New York's Hudson Valley, which houses Dia's collection of art from the 1960s to the present. Built in a former Nabisco box factory, the critically acclaimed museum has been credited with catalyzing a cultural and economic revival within the formerly factory-based city of Beacon. Dia's collection nearly doubled in size during Govan's tenure, but he also came under criticism for "needlessly and permanently" closing Dia's West 22nd Street building. During his time at Dia, Govan also worked closely with artists James Turrell and Michael Heizer, becoming an ardent supporter of Roden Crater and City, the artists' respective site-specific land art projects under construction in the American southwest. Govan successfully lobbied Washington to have the 704,000 acres in central Nevada surrounding City declared a national monument in 2015.

LACMA
In February 2006, a search committee composed of eleven LACMA trustees, led by the late Nancy M. Daly, recruited Govan to run the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. Govan has stated that he was drawn to the role not only because of LACMA's geographical distance from its European and east coast peers, but also because of the museum's relative youth, having been established in 1961. "I felt that because of this newness I had the opportunity to reconsider the museum," Govan has written, "[and] Los Angeles is a good place to do that."Govan has been widely regarded for transforming LACMA into both a local and international landmark. Since Govan's arrival, LACMA has acquired by donation or purchase over 27,000 works for the permanent collection, and the museum's gallery space has almost doubled thanks to the addition of two new buildings designed by Renzo Piano, the Broad Contemporary Art Museum (BCAM) and the Lynda and Stewart Resnick Pavilion. LACMA's annual attendance has grown from 600,000 to nearly 1.6 million in 2016.

Artist collaborations
Since his arrival, Govan has commissioned exhibition scenography and gallery designs in collaboration with artists. In 2006, for example, Govan invited LA artist John Baldessari to design an upcoming exhibition about the Belgian surrealist René Magritte, resulting in a theatrical show that reflected the twisted perspective of the latter's topsy-turvy world. Baldessari has also designed LACMA's logo. Since then, Govan has also commissioned Cuban-American artist Jorge Pardo to design LACMA's Art of the Ancient Americas gallery, described in the Los Angeles Times as a "gritty cavern deep inside the earth ... crossed with a high-style urban lounge."Govan has also commissioned several large-scale public artworks for LACMA's campus from contemporary California artists. These include Chris Burden's Urban Light (2008), a series of 202 vintage street lamps from different neighborhoods in Los Angeles, arranged in front of the entrance pavilion, Barbara Kruger's Untitled (Shafted) (2008), Robert Irwin's Primal Palm Garden (2010), and Michael Heizer's Levitated Mass, a 340-ton boulder transported 100 miles from the Jurupa Valley to LACMA, a widely publicized journey that culminated with a large celebration on Wilshire Boulevard. Thanks in part to the popularity of these public artworks, LACMA was ranked the fourth most instagrammed museum in the world in 2016.In his first three full years, the museum raised $251 million—about $100 million more than it collected during the three years before he arrived. In 2010, it was announced that Govan will steer LACMA for at least six more years. In a letter dated February 24, 2013, Govan, along with the LACMA board's co-chairmen Terry Semel and Andrew Gordon, proposed a merger with the financially troubled Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles and a plan to raise $100 million for the combined museum.

Zumthor Project
Govan's latest project is an ambitious building project, the replacement of four of the campus's aging buildings with a single new state of the art gallery building designed by architect Peter Zumthor. As of January 2017, he has raised about $300 million in commitments. Construction is expected to begin in 2018, and the new building will open in 2023, to coincide with the opening of the new D Line metro stop on Wilshire Boulevard. The project also envisages dissolving all existing curatorial departments and departmental collections. Some commentators have been highly critical of Govan's plans. Joseph Giovannini, recalling Govan's technically unrealizable onetime plan to hang Jeff Koons' Train sculpture from the facade of the Ahmanson Gallery, has accused Govan of "driving the institution over a cliff into an equivalent mid-air wreck of its own". Describing the collection merging proposal as the creation of a "giant raffle bowl of some 130,000 objects", Giovannini also points out that the Zumthor building will contain 33% less gallery space than the galleries it will replace, and that the linear footage of wall space available for displays will decrease by about 7,500 ft, or 1.5 miles. Faced with losing a building named in its honor, and anticipating that its acquisitions could no longer be displayed, the Ahmanson Foundation withdrew its support.
On the merging of the separate curatorial divisions to create a non-departmental art museum, Christopher Knight has pointed out that "no other museum of LACMA's size and complexity does it" that way, and characterized the museum's 2019 "To Rome and Back" exhibition, the first to take place under the new scheme, as "bland and ineffectual" and an "unsuccessful sample of what's to come".

Personal life
Govan is married and has two daughters, one from a previous marriage. He and his family used to live in a $6 million mansion in Hancock Park that was provided by LACMA - a benefit worth $155,000 a year, according to most recent tax filings - until LACMA decided that it would sell the property to make up for the museum's of almost $900 million in debt [2]. That home is now worth nearly $8 million and Govan now lives in a trailer park in Malibu's Point Dume region.
Los Angeles CA 90020
United States. He has had a private pilot's license since 1995 and keeps a 1979 Beechcraft Bonanza at Santa Monica Airport.
Passage 6:
John Donatich
John Donatich is the Director of Yale University Press.

Early life
He received a BA from New York University in 1982, graduating magna cum laude. He also got a master's degree from NYU in 1984, graduating summa cum laude.

Career
Donatich worked as director of National Accounts at Putnam Publishing Group from 1989 to 1992.His writing has appeared in various periodicals including Harper's, The Atlantic Monthly and The Village Voice.
He worked at HarperCollins from 1992 to 1996, serving as director of national accounts and then as vice president and director of product and marketing development.From 1995 to 2003, Donatich served as publisher and vice president of Basic Books. While there, he started the Art of Mentoring series of books, which would run from 2001 to 2008.  While at Basic Books, Donatich published such authors as Christopher Hitchens, Steven Pinker, Samantha Power, Alan Dershowitz, Sir Martin Rees and Richard Florida.
In 2003, Donatich became the director of the Yale University Press.  At Yale, Donatich published such authors as Michael Walzer, Janet Malcolm, E. H. Gombrich, Michael Fried, Edmund Morgan and T. J.  Clark.  Donatich began the Margellos World Republic of Letters, a literature in translation series that published such authors as Adonis, Norman Manea and Claudio Magris. He also launched the digital archive platform, The Stalin Digital Archive and the Encounters Chinese Language multimedia platform.
In 2009, he briefly gained media attention when he was involved in the decision to expunge the Muhammad cartoons from the Yale University Press book The Cartoons that Shook the World, for fear of Muslim violence.He is the author of a memoir, Ambivalence, a Love Story, and a novel, The Variations.

Books
Ambivalence, a Love Story: Portrait of a Marriage (memoir), St. Martin's Press, 2005.
The Variations (novel), Henry Holt, March, 2012

Articles
Why Books Still Matter, Journal of Scholarly Publishing, Volume 40, Number 4, July 2009, pp. 329–342, E-ISSN 1710-1166 Print ISSN 1198-9742

Personal life
Donatich is married to Betsy Lerner, a literary agent and author; together they have a daughter, Raffaella.
Passage 7:
Dana Blankstein
Dana Blankstein-Cohen (born March 3, 1981) is the executive director of the Sam Spiegel Film and Television School. She was appointed by the board of directors  in November 2019.  Previously she was the CEO of the Israeli Academy of Film and Television. She is a film director, and an Israeli culture entrepreneur.

Biography
Dana Blankstein was born in Switzerland in 1981 to theatre director Dedi Baron and Professor Alexander Blankstein. She moved to Israel in 1983 and grew up in Tel Aviv.
Blankstein graduated from the Sam Spiegel Film and Television School, Jerusalem in 2008 with high honors. During her studies she worked as a personal assistant to directors Savi Gabizon on his film Nina's Tragedies and to Renen Schorr on his film The Loners.  She also directed and shot 'the making of' film on Gavison's film Lost and Found. Her debut film Camping competed at the Berlin International Film Festival, 2007.

Film and academic career
After her studies, Dana founded and directed the film and television department at the Kfar Saba municipality. The department encouraged and promoted productions filmed in the city of Kfar Saba, as well as the established cultural projects, and educational community activities.
Blankstein directed the mini-series "Tel Aviviot" (2012). From 2016-2019 was the director of the Israeli Academy of Film and Television.
In November 2019 Dana Blankstein Cohen was appointed the new director of the Sam Spiegel Film and Television School where she also oversees the Sam Spiegel International Film Lab. In 2022, she spearheaded the launch of the new Series Lab and the film preparatory program for Arabic speakers in east Jerusalem.

Filmography
Tel Aviviot (mini-series; director, 2012)
Growing Pains (graduation film, Sam Spiegel; director and screenwriter, 2008)
Camping (debut film, Sam Spiegel; director and screenwriter, 2006)
Passage 8:
Ian Barry (director)
Ian Barry is an Australian director of film and TV.

Select credits
Waiting for Lucas (1973) (short)
Stone (1974) (editor only)
The Chain Reaction (1980)
Whose Baby? (1986) (mini-series)
Minnamurra (1989)
Bodysurfer (1989) (mini-series)
Ring of Scorpio (1990) (mini-series)
Crimebroker (1993)
Inferno (1998) (TV movie)
Miss Lettie and Me (2002) (TV movie)
Not Quite Hollywood: The Wild, Untold Story of Ozploitation! (2008) (documentary)
The Doctor Blake Mysteries (2013)
Passage 9:
Lady Magdalene's
Lady Magdalene's is a film directed, written and produced by J. Neil Schulman and starring Nichelle Nichols (who also received an executive producer credit). The movie was J. Neil Schulman's debut as a director, and Nichelle Nichols' debut as a producer.

Plot
Jack Goldwater, an IRS agent on loan to the Federal Air Marshal Service, is relieved of field duty after insulting a powerful U.S. senator, and finds himself exiled to a humiliating desk job in Nevada as the federal receiver managing a legal brothel in tax default, where—with the help of the brothel Madam, Lady Magdalene—he uncovers an Al Qaeda plot to unload a nuclear-bomb-sized crate at Hoover Dam.

Cast (opening titles)
Nichelle Nichols as Lady Magdalene
Ethan Keogh as Jack Goldwater
Susan Smythe as Angel
Claudia Lynx as Scheherazade
Alexander Wraith as Yassin Salem
Mark Gilvary as The Director & FBI SAC Broderick
J. Neil Schulman as Ali the American
Said Faraj as Gamal Hosny
Mara Marini as Nurse Gretchen
Vince Martorano as IRS Agent Lewis Heinlein
Hope McBane as Sinead
Michele Redmond as Eden
Keyaria Rodriguez as Pixie

Release
The movie was produced by Schulman's own film company Jesulu Productions. After film-festival play the full movie was released on YouTube.

Awards
The film won three film-festival awards: "Best Cutting Edge Film" at the 2008 San Diego Film Festival, "Audience Choice -- Feature-Length Narrative Film" at the 2008 Cinema City International Film Festival held on the Universal Hollywood Citywalk, and "Special Jury Prize for Libertarian Ideals" at the 2011 Anthem Film Festival/FreedomFest held at Bally's Las Vegas.
Passage 10:
J. Neil Schulman
Joseph Neil Schulman (; April 16, 1953 – August 10, 2019) was an American novelist who wrote Alongside Night (published 1979) and The Rainbow Cadenza (published 1983) which both received the Prometheus Award, a libertarian science fiction award. His third novel, Escape from Heaven, was also a finalist for the 2002 Prometheus Award. His fourth and last novel, The Fractal Man, was a finalist for the 2019 Prometheus Award.

Biography
Schulman was born in Forest Hills, Queens on April 16, 1953.  He was the author of nine other books currently in print, including a short story collection, Nasty, Brutish, and Short Stories, Stopping Power: Why 70 Million Americans Own Guns, and The Robert Heinlein Interview and Other Heinleiniana.He wrote the Twilight Zone episode "Profile in Silver", first broadcast on CBS March 7, 1986. Schulman died on August 10, 2019 at the age of 66, three days after suffering a pulmonary embolism.

Filmmaking
Schulman was the writer, director, executive producer (along with Nichelle Nichols) of the movie Lady Magdalene's, which was produced by Schulman's own company Jesulu Productions. The movie won three film-festival awards: "Best Cutting Edge Film" at the 2008 San Diego Black Film Festival, "Audience Choice – Feature-Length Narrative Film" at the 2008 Cinema City International Film Festival held on the Universal Hollywood Citywalk, and "Special Jury Prize for Libertarian Ideals" at the 2011 Anthem Film Festival/FreedomFest held at Bally's Las Vegas.In 2013, Schulman completed production on a feature-film of Alongside Night, starring Kevin Sorbo, Jake Busey, Tim Russ, Garrett Wang, Mara Marini, and Gary Graham. The movie premiered in 2014 and had a limited theatrical release. It was released for streaming on iTunes, Amazon Video and Amazon Prime and as a Blu-ray/DVD combo pack.

Views
Schulman was a known proponent of the anarchist philosophy agorism, which was developed by Samuel Edward Konkin III. Though originally a supporter of the War on Terror, he was opposed to U.S. military occupations or operations in the Middle East. Schulman also supported free trade and was against tariffs.

Books
Schulman is author of:
Alongside Night (Crown Publishers, 1979; Pulpless.Com 1999) Libertarian Futurist Society gold medallion winner, 1989
The Rainbow Cadenza  (Simon & Schuster, 1983; Pulpless.Com, 2017) 1984 Prometheus Award winner for Best Libertarian SF Novel
Self Control Not Gun Control (Synapse-Centurion, 1995; Pulpless.Com 1999)
Profile in Silver and Other Screenwritings (Pulpless.Com, 1999)
The Frame of the Century? (Pulpless.Com, 1999)
Escape from Heaven (Pulpless.Com, 2002) 2003 Prometheus Award finalist for Best Libertarian SF Novel
The Heartmost Desire (Pulpless.Com, 2013)
Unchaining the Human Heart – A Revolutionary Manifesto (Pulpless.Com, 2017)
I Met God – God without Religion, Scripture, or Faith (Pulpless.Com, 2017)
Atheist to Believer (Pulpless.Com, 2017)
J. Neil Schulman's The Book of Words (Pulpless.Com, 2017)
The Fractal Man (Steve Heller Publishing, 2018) 2019 Prometheus Award finalist for Best Libertarian SF Novel
Origitent: Why Original Content Is Property (Steve Heller Publishing, 2018)
Why Original Content Is Property – Kindle edition by J. Neil Schulman, Wendy McElroy, Samuel Edward Konkin III, Stephan Kinsella, Steve Heller.