Passage 1:
Henri, Duke of Montpensier
Henri de Bourbon, Duke of Montpensier, (12 May 1573 – 27 February 1608) was Dauphin of Auvergne, Duke of Montpensier, Sovereign Prince of the Dombes and Lord of Châtellerault.
Henri was born at Mézières, the son  of François de Bourbon, Duke of Montpensier, and of his wife Renée d'Anjou, marquise de Mézières.
On 15 May 1597, Henri married  Henriette Catherine, daughter of Henri de Joyeuse and Catherine de Nogaret.  They had:

Marie de Bourbon, Duchess of Montpensier (15 October 1605 – 4 June 1627); married Gaston, Duke of Orléans and was the mother of La Grande Mademoiselle (with Marie dying as a result of complications from the birth of her daughter). Her daughter never married and died childless in 1693 and thus Marie has no surviving descendants today.
Passage 2:
Mercedes of Orléans
María de las Mercedes of Orléans (24 June 1860 – 26 June 1878) was Queen of Spain as the first wife of King Alfonso XII. She was born in Madrid, the daughter of Antoine of Orléans, Duke of Montpensier, and Infanta Luisa Fernanda of Spain.

Early life
Born at the Palacio Real in Madrid on 24 June 1860, Mercedes was the sixth of her parents' nine children. Her father, Antoine, was the Duke of Montpensier while her mother, Luisa Fernanda, was an Infanta of Spain. Her mother's elder sister, Queen Isabella II, and brother-in-law, King Francis, served as Mercedes' godparents at her christening, when she was given the names: María de las Mercedes Isabel Francisca de Asís Antonia Luisa Fernanda Felipa Amalia Cristina Francisca de Paula Ramona Rita Cayetana Manuela Juana Josefa Joaquina Ana Rafaela Filomena Teresa Santísima Trinidad Gaspara Melchora Baltasara et omni sancti.Although Mercedes was patrilineally a French princess, she was also a Spanish infanta and spent the first eight years of her life in Spain. Her childhood was spent at the Palace of San Telmo in Andalusia, her father's rumoured aspirations to obtain his sister-in-law's crown periodically rendering him unwelcome at the royal court in Madrid.

Marriage and reign
When Queen Isabella II was deposed in 1868, Mercedes' family left Spain for exile. It was reportedly during that banishment in 1872 that she met her first cousin Alfonso, Prince of Asturias, also living in exile. Isabella II opposed a marriage between the two due to the hostilities between Mercedes' father and the former queen.
Upon restoration, King Alfonso married María de las Mercedes at the church of Atocha in Madrid on 23 January 1878, following a huge ball in December 1877. Allegedly, the King's choice dashed the hopes of his still-exiled mother Queen Isabella for Alfonso's marriage to Infanta Blanca de Borbón, daughter of his Carlist rival Carlos, Duke of Madrid.Mercedes helped build a new temple after the Church of Santa María de la Almudena was demolished in 1868.

Death
Shortly after their honeymoon, it became evident that Queen Mercedes suffered from typhoid fever. The marriage would last only six months, during which she reportedly had a miscarriage. She died due to the fever on 26 June 1878, at 18 years old.

Legacy
The news of her demise spawned many folk songs accounting for it, most notably the famous copla, with many variations in Spain and America, particularly popular among children delivered as a song accompanying a skipping rope game. According to Benito Pérez Galdós, he had already heard about it few days after the incident: “¿Dónde vas Alfonso XII? ¿Dónde vas triste de ti? Voy en busca de Mercedes que ayer tarde no la vi…” ("Where are you going, Alfonso XII? Where are you going, sad man?—I'm going in search of Mercedes whom I did not see yesterday afternoon..."). A film about the romance between María de las Mercedes and Alfonso XII, Where Are You Going, Alfonso XII?, was released in 1958.Queen Mercedes co-initiated the building of the Cathedral of la Almudena in Madrid, opposite of the royal palace —the construction beginning in 1883. In May 2004 Felipe, Prince of Asturias, was wed there to Letizia Ortiz. Queen Mercedes' remains were re-interred there on 8 November 2000, in accordance with her widower's wishes.
A town in the northern Philippine province of Isabela was named Reina Mercedes in her honor in 1886 when the Spanish colonial government formally separated it from Cauayan.
When the King's minister Cánovas del Castillo suggested that he take a new wife, Alfonso acquiesced, choosing Mercedes' sister María Cristina. She also contracted tuberculosis, and died during the engagement period. In late 1879, he married Archduchess Maria Christina of Austria-Teschen; the eldest of their children, the Princess of Asturias, was named in honour of Queen Mercedes.

Ancestry
Passage 3:
Louise Marie Adélaïde de Bourbon, Duchess of Orléans
Louise Marie Adélaïde de Bourbon, Duchess of Orléans (13 March 1753 – 23 June 1821), was the daughter of Louis Jean Marie de Bourbon, Duke of Penthièvre and Princess Maria Teresa d'Este. At the death of her brother, Louis Alexandre, Prince of Lamballe, she became the wealthiest heiress in France prior to the French Revolution. She married Louis Philippe II, Duke of Orléans, the "regicide" Philippe Égalité, and was the mother of France's last king, Louis Philippe I. She was sister-in-law to Marie Thérèse Louise, Princess of Lamballe, and was the last member of the Bourbon-Penthièvre family.

Early life
Marie-Adélaïde was born on 13 March 1753 at the Hôtel de Toulouse, the family residence in Paris since 1712, when her grandfather, Louis-Alexandre de Bourbon, comte de Toulouse, bought it from Louis Phélypeaux de La Vrillière. She was the youngest daughter of Louis Jean Marie de Bourbon, Duke of Penthièvre and his wife, Princess Maria Teresa d'Este. Her mother died in childbirth the following year. Styled Mademoiselle d'Ivoy initially and, as a young girl, until her marriage, Mademoiselle de Penthièvre (derived from the duchy inherited by her father). The style of Mademoiselle de Penthièvre had been previously borne by her sister Marie Louise de Bourbon (1751–1753), who died six months after Marie-Adélaïde's birth.

Education
At birth, she was put in the care of Madame de Sourcy and, as was the custom for many girls of the nobility, she was later raised at the Abbaye de Montmartre convent, overlooking Paris, where she spent twelve years. As a child, she was encouraged to take an active part in the charities for which her father had become known as "Prince of the Poor". His reputation for beneficence made him popular throughout France and, subsequently, saved him during the Revolution.

Marriage
Upon the death of her brother and only sibling, the Prince de Lamballe, on 8 May 1768, Marie-Adélaïde became heiress to what was to become the largest fortune of France.
Her marriage to Louis Philippe Joseph d'Orléans, Duke of Chartres, son of the Duke of Orléans, had been envisaged earlier and, while the Duke of Penthièvre saw in it the opportunity for his daughter to marry the First Prince of the Blood Royal, the Orléanses did not want another union with an illegitimate branch of the royal family. However, when the Prince de Lamballe's death left his sister sole heiress to the family fortune, the bar sinister on her inescutcheon was "overlooked". Although Marie-Adélaîde was much in love with her Orléans cousin, Louis XV warned Penthièvre against such a marriage because of the reputation of the young Duke of Chartres as a libertine. Louis XV was also fearful of the powerful leverage given the Orléans branch should it inherit the Penthièvre fortune.You are wrong, my cousin, said Louis XV to Penthièvre, the Duke of Chartres has a bad temper, bad habits: he is a libertine, your daughter will not be happy. Do not rush, wait!
Mademoiselle de Penthièvre was presented to the King on 7 December 1768, in a ceremony called de nubilité, by her maternal aunt, Maria Fortunata d'Este, Comtesse de la Marche. She was greeted by Louis XV, the Dauphin and other members of the royal family. On that day, she was baptised by Charles Antoine de La Roche-Aymon, Grand Almoner of France, and given the names Louise Marie Adélaïde.Her marriage to the Duke of Chartres took place at the Palace of Versailles on 5 April 1769 in a ceremony which all of the princes du sang attended. The marriage contract was signed by all members of the royal family. Afterwards, Louis XV hosted a wedding supper which included the entire royal family. Mlle de Penthièvre brought to the already wealthy House of Orléans a dowry of six million livres, an annual income of 240,000 livres (later increased to 400,000), and the expectation of much more upon her father's death.

The Comtesse de Genlis
During the first few months of their marriage, the couple appeared devoted to each other, but the duke went back to the life of libertinage he had led before his marriage.
In the summer of 1772, a few months after his wife had given birth to a stillborn daughter, Philippe's secret liaison began with one of her ladies-in-waiting, Stéphanie Félicité Ducrest de St-Albin, Comtesse de Genlis, the niece of Madame de Montesson, the morganatic wife of Philippe's father. Passionate at first, the liaison cooled within a few months and, by the spring of 1773, was reported to be "dead". After the romantic affair was over, Félicité remained in the service of Marie-Adélaïde at the Palais-Royal, a trusted friend to both Marie-Adélaïde and Philippe. They both appreciated her intelligence and, in July 1779, she became the governess of the couple's twin daughters born in 1777.In 1782, the young Louis Philippe was nine and in need of discipline. However, the Duke of Chartres could not think of someone better qualified to "turn his sons over to" than Mme de Genlis. Thus she became the "gouverneur" of the Duc and Duchesse de Chartres' children. Teacher and pupils left the Palais-Royal and went to live in a house built specially for them on the grounds of the Couvent des Dames de Bellechasse in Paris. Mme de Genlis was an excellent teacher, but like those of her former lover, the Duc de Chartres, her liberal political views made her unpopular with Queen Marie Antoinette. In the dissemination of her ideas, de Genlis managed to alienate her charges from their mother.
Marie-Adélaïde began to object to the education given her children by her former lady-in-waiting. The relationship between the two women became unbearable when Louis-Philippe, on 2 November 1790, one month after his seventeenth birthday, joined the revolutionary Jacobin Club. Marie-Adélaïde's relationship with her husband was also at its worst at this point, and the only way the two would communicate was through letters. In the memoirs of the Baronne d'Oberkirch, Marie-Adélaïde is described as:...always wearing a melancholic expression which nothing could cure. She sometimes smiled, she never laughed....
Upon the death of her father-in-law Louis Philippe d'Orléans in November 1785, her husband became the new Duke of Orléans, and First Prince of the Blood, taking rank only after the immediate family of the king. As the wife of a prince du sang she was entitled to be addressed as Your Serene Highness, a style to which her own illegitimate branch of the Bourbons had no right.

Revolution
On 5 April 1791, Marie-Adélaïde left her husband, and went to live with her father at the château de Bizy overlooking Vernon, Eure in Normandy In September 1792, having sided with the Revolution, the Duke of Orléans was elected to the National Convention under the name of Philippe Égalité. Siding with the radical group called La Montagne, he was from the very beginning suspect in the eyes of the Girondists, who wanted all the Bourbons to be banished from France. The fate of the Orléans family was sealed when Marie-Adélaïde's eldest son, the duc de Chartres, "Général Égalité" in the Army of the North commanded by Charles François Dumouriez, sought political asylum from the Austrians in March 1793. On 6 April, all the members of the Orléans family still remaining in France were arrested. After their arrest in Paris, Philippe Égalité and his son, the comte de Beaujolais, were imprisoned in the prison de l'Abbaye in Paris.Later, the two were transferred to the prison of Fort Saint-Jean in Marseille, where they were soon joined by the duc de Montpensier who had been arrested while serving as an officer in the Army of the Alps. The day before his father and brothers were arrested in France, the duc de Chartres rushed to Tournai, near the French border, where his sister Adélaïde and Mme de Genlis had been living since Philippe Égalité had made them emigrate in November 1792. The duc de Chartres accompanied them to safety in Switzerland. In the meantime, due to her poor health, Marie-Adélaïde was allowed to stay in France, under guard, at the château de Bizy, where her father had died a month earlier. Her inheritance, however, was confiscated by the revolutionary government. Despite having voted for the death of his cousin Louis XVI of France, and having denounced his son's defection, Philippe Égalité was guillotined on 6 November 1793.

Widow Égalité
Upon the execution of her husband, Marie-Adélaïde, now known as the "Veuve Égalité" ("Widow Égalité"), was incarcerated at the Luxembourg Palace, which had been transformed into a prison during the Revolution. There she met the man who was to become the "love of her life", a former member of the National Convention named Jacques-Marie Rouzet, who had been imprisoned at the fall of the Girondins. Nearly executed before the fall of Robespierre, in July 1794 at the end of the Reign of Terror, she was transferred to the "Pension Belhomme", a former mental institution turned into a "prison for the rich" during the Revolution.After Rouzet, who after his liberation had become a member of the Council of Five Hundred, succeeded, in 1796, to secure her liberation and that of her two sons still imprisoned in Marseille, the two always remained together and lived in Paris until 1797, when a decree banished the remaining members of the House of Bourbon from France. Marie-Adélaïde was exiled to Spain, as was her sister-in-law Bathilde d'Orléans, the last princesse de Condé. Rouzet accompanied them to the Spanish border and managed to secretly join them in Barcelona where he became her chancellor, and she obtained for him the title of comte de Folmont.Marie-Adélaïde was never to see her two younger sons again, Montpensier and Beaujolais, who died in exile before the 1814 Bourbon Restoration. She, Rouzet and the Orléans exiled in Spain returned to France in 1814 at the time of the first Bourbon Restoration. After legal battles which lasted until her death, the bulk of her inheritance was eventually recovered. She died in her castle at Ivry-sur-Seine on 23 June 1821, after battling breast cancer. Rouzet had died nine months before, on 25 October 1820, and she had him inhumed in the new family chapel she had built in Dreux in 1816, as the final resting place for the two families, Bourbon-Penthièvre and Orléans.The original Bourbon-Penthièvre family crypt in the Collégiale de Saint-Étienne de Dreux had been violated during the Revolution and the bodies thrown together into a grave in the Chanoines Cemetery of the Collégiale. She was buried in the new chapel which, after the accession to the throne of her son Louis Philippe, was enlarged, embellished and renamed Chapelle royale de Dreux, becoming the necropolis for the now royal Orléans family. Marie Adélaïde did not live to see her son Louis Philippe become King of the French in 1830.

Cultural references
In the 2006 film, Marie Antoinette, Marie-Adélaïde had a minor role played by actress Aurore Clément.

Issue
The couple had six children:

A daughter (died at birth, 10 October 1771)
Louis Philippe d'Orléans (future King Louis Philippe I of the French), (Palais Royal, 1773–1850, Claremont) Duke of Valois (1773–1785) **Duke of Chartres (1785–1793) Duke of Orléans (1793–1830) married Maria Amalia of Naples and had issue.
Louis Antoine Philippe d'Orléans, Duke of Montpensier, (Palais Royal, 1775–1807, Salthill),
Françoise d'Orléans, Mademoiselle d'Orléans (Palais Royal, 1777–1782, Palais Royal), twin sister of (below),
Louise Marie Adélaïde Eugénie d'Orléans, Mademoiselle de Chartres (Palais Royal, 1777–1847, Palais de Tuileries) never married.
Louis Charles Alphonse Léodgard d'Orléans, Count of Beaujolais (Palais Royal, 1779–1808, Malta) never married

The painting
On the eve of the French Revolution, in 1789, she was painted by Élisabeth-Louise Vigée-Le Brun, the favourite portrait painter of Queen Marie Antoinette. The painting was titled Madame la Duchesse d'Orléans. Vigée-Le Brun made use of the lonely duchess' melancholia in the pose. Dressed in white, a reminder of her candor, the head of the duchess is supported on her upraised arm. She is shown with a languid, sad expression. Below the breast is a Wedgwood medallion which Colin Eisler has identified as Poor Maria, possibly a reference to the life of the duchess, which was later destroyed because of the Revolution. The painting is now at the Palace of Versailles. There is another copy in the musée de Longchamp, Marseille. Versailles has a third copy which has been incorrectly described as a replica.

Ancestry
Passage 4:
Amédée Faure
Amédée Faure or Victor-Amédée Faure (1801–1878) was a French painter and portraitist.  His portrait subjects include the brothers Louis-Charles, Count of Beaujolais and Antoine Philippe, Duke of Montpensier, and he also specialised in historic scenes of the House of Orléans and the July Monarchy.

External links
Amédée Faure at culture.fr
Passage 5:
Theodred II (Bishop of Elmham)
Theodred II was a medieval Bishop of Elmham.
The date of Theodred's consecration unknown, but the date of his death was sometime between 995 and 997.
Passage 6:
Françoise Barbaroux
Françoise Barbaroux (1 January 1761 – 3 November 1822) was mistress of Antoine Philippe, Duke of Montpensier. She had one child to Antoine Philippe, Jean-Antoine-Philippe Dentend (6 August 1797 – 5 March 1858), who became notary to the house of Orléans and in that role oversaw Louis Philippe's donation of his personal goods in 1830 before his accession.
Françoise was insulting to members of Antoine's family, then living in exile after the political tumult of the French Revolution.  The Revolution's victims included Louis Philippe II, Duke of Orléans, Antoine's father. Madame Adélaïde of Orléans, Antoine's sister, wrote in several of her diary entries that Françoise was "Ugly". Her attempt to befriend Adélaïde failed as the princesse left for America. Antoine never saw his son, and Françoise left France for Belgium after Antoine's death. She remained there until her death in 1822.
Françoise Barbaroux' father, Francis Barbaroux, was the chamberlain to Louis XVIII of France.
Passage 7:
George of Naples
George (died 739) was the duke of Naples for a decade beginning in 729. 
George succeeded Theodore I and continued his prudent policy of balancing between the Byzantine Empire and the papacy, at that time embroiled in a conflict over the iconoclastic controversy. He was succeeded by Gregory I.
An ancient monument, dedicated to George, can be found to this day at Terracina.

Sources
Gay, Jules. L'Italie méridionale et l'empire Byzantin: Livre I. Burt Franklin: New York, 1904.
Passage 8:
Louis II, Count of Montpensier
Louis de Bourbon, Count of Montpensier (1483 – August 14, 1501, Naples) was the son of Gilbert, Count of Montpensier and Claire Gonzaga. He was Count of Montpensier and Clermont-en-Auvergne and Dauphin d'Auvergne from 1496 to his death.
He died unmarried and was succeeded by his brother Charles III, Duke of Bourbon.
Passage 9:
Marie de Bourbon, Duchess of Montpensier
Marie de Bourbon (15 October 1605 – 4 June 1627), Duchess of Montpensier, and Duchess of Orléans by marriage, was a French noblewoman and one of the last members of the House of Bourbon-Montpensier. Her parents were Henri de Bourbon, Duke of Montpensier and Henriette Catherine de Joyeuse, Duchess of Joyeuse in her own right.

Biography
Marie de Bourbon was born in the château de Gaillon, in Gaillon (Eure department of France), in the former province of Normandy.
Known as Mademoiselle de Montpensier before her marriage, she was the Duke and Duchess of Montpensier's only child. At the age of two, she had been engaged to the second son of Henry IV of France, Nicolas Henri de France, Duke of Orléans, but he died at the age of four in 1611. She was then betrothed to his brother, Gaston de France, Duke of Orléans, the younger brother of king Louis XIII, and the heir presumptive to the throne of France.
At the death of her father, in 1608, Marie became the Duchess of Montpensier in her own right; the Duchy was one of the oldest in France having been elevated from a County in 1539. Marie was a descendant of John II of France, of the House of Valois and of Saint Louis.
Because of the Montpensier's fortune, of which Marie was the only heiress, and despite the aversion shown by Gaston toward this arranged marriage, Louis XIII and Richelieu were determined the marriage would take place.
The wedding ceremony was celebrated in Nantes, on 6 August 1626, in the presence of Louis XIII, his wife, Queen Anne of Austria, and Marie de' Medici, the Queen Mother. According to her daughter's biographer, Vita Sackville-West, quoting a member of her husband's household, A sadder wedding was never seen..From this union, the new ducal couple had one child:

Anne Marie Louise d'Orléans, Duchess of Montpensier (Louvre, 29 May 1627 – Palais du Luxembourg, 3 April 1693), the future Grande Mademoiselle.Marie died on 4 June 1627 at the Palais du Louvre in Paris, at the age of twenty-one, shortly after the birth of her daughter who, as her only child, inherited her fortune and titles. She was buried at the Royal Basilica of Saint Denis, north of Paris.
In a will intended to disinherit her niece, Anne Marie Louise d'Orléans, Marie's half-sister Marie de Lorraine,) chose Charles François de Stainville as beneficiary in 1688; but on the urging of her heirs, the will was broken by the Parlement of Paris in 1689.After the death of her daughter, La Grande Mademoiselle, in 1693, Marie's fortune was handed over to Philippe de France, Louis XIV's younger and only brother.

Ancestors
Passage 10:
Antoine Philippe, Duke of Montpensier
Louis Antoine Philippe d'Orléans, Duke of Montpensier (3 July 1775, Palais-Royal, Paris - 18 May 1807, Salthill, England) was a son of Louis Philippe, Duke of Orléans (nom de rėvolution: "Philippe Égalité") (1747–1793), and his duchess Louise Marie Adélaïde de Bourbon, Duchess of Orléans. He was the younger brother of Louis Philippe, later King of the French. Antoine had a deep affection for him, and they were only ever separated during the Reign of Terror and the events that followed between 1793 and 1797.

Life
In 1791, Antoine Philippe was appointed as an aide-de-camp, with the rank of sous-lieutenant in his brother's regiment (his brother, then duc de Chartres, was known as "Général Égalité.") He was made adjutant-general before the battle of Jemmapes, in which both he and his brother fought. In Paris at the time of the trial of Louis XVI, Antoine Philippe attempted unsuccessfully to persuade his father not to vote for the king's death.
In April 1793, whilst adjutant-general in the armée du Var, Antoine Philippe was arrested at the same time as the other Bourbons who had remained in France. He was imprisoned in Fort Saint-Jean at Marseille.
During his imprisonment, Antoine Philippe contracted tuberculosis which eventually killed him. He had an illegitimate son with Françoise Barbaroux – Jean-Antoine-Philippe Dentend (7 July 1797 – 5 March 1858) – who became notary to the House of Orléans. In that role, he oversaw Louis Philippe's donation of his personal property in 1830 before his accession. Antoine never saw his child; on 13 fructidor year IV (30 August 1796), the French Directory decided to exile him to Philadelphia, where the French Republic's chargé-d'affaires in the United States of America granted him an annual pension of 15,000 francs. He set out on      5 November 1796, accompanied by his brother Louis-Charles, comte de Beaujolais, and in February 1797 met Louis-Philippe in Philadelphia. For two years they travelled around New England, the Great Lakes region and the Mississippi valley. 

Returning to Europe in 1800, the royal House of Bourbon remained in exile from France, so the brothers set up in England at Twickenham (Highshot House, Crown Road, building demolished in 1927). Later that year Antoine- Philippe sought the hand in marriage of Lady Charlotte Adelaide Constantia Rawdon (d. 1834), daughter of the 1st Earl of Moira by his third wife, Elizabeth Hastings, 16th Baroness Botreaux (daughter of the 9th Earl of Huntingdon by his wife, Lady Selena Shirley, founder of the Countess of Huntingdon's Connexion). Despite her noble lineage, consent for the marriage was withheld by Louis, Count of Provence (the future King Louis XVIII), and the couple never wed.In 1807 Antoine-Philippe's tuberculosis worsened, motivating his elder brother to take him to Devon to benefit from the fresh air. Twelve miles out of Twickenham, they were forced to stop at an inn in Salt Hill, near Windsor. During a respiratory crisis, Antoine-Philippe refused the ether Louis-Philippe was wanting to administer, and, murmuring to him "Give me your hand, I thought I was dying" ("Donne-moi ta main, j'ai cru que je mourais"), and with that he died. 
Antoine-Philippe's funeral service was held at the Catholic chapel on King Street in London.  Monsieur (the future King Charles X) attended and, thanks to Prince Edward, Duke of Kent, obtained permission to bury his brother in Westminster Abbey.

Works
Relation de la captivité de S.A.S. Monsignor le duc de Montpensier, pendant les années 1793, 1794, 1795 et 1796, écrite par lui-même, Twickenham, Imprimerie de G. White, 1816
Mémoires de S.A.S. Louis-Antoine-Philippe d'Orléans, duc de Montpensier, Paris, Baudouin frères, 1824 – text on www.gallica.fr

Ancestors
References and notes

Hay, Malcolm. Prince in Captivity: based on the Memoirs and unpublished Letters of Antoine Philippe d'Orleans, Duc de Montpensier, 1775-1807 (Eyre & Spottiswoode, 1960)


== External links ==