Passage 1:
Mi novia el...
Mi novia el... (My Girlfriend the...) is a 1975 Argentine comedy film. The original title, Mi novia el travesti ("My Girlfriend the Transvestite") was edited by Argentine censors when the film was first released. The original script was about a real travesti supposed to be protagonized by Jorge Perez, a famous travesti under the name of Jorge Perez Evelyn. However, the censorship was so strong that the script was changed and Perez was replaced with actress Susana Giménez.
The plot is based on the 1933 German film Victor and Victoria.

Plot
Alberto is a regular middle-aged man who lives with his elder mother and works at a factory. After a night out where he attends a show by transvestite artist Dominique, he develops an unexpected fixation with the artist. What started out as a loud reaction of disgust and bigotry, slowly turns into him realizing that he is in fact attracted to Dominique. This newfound interest fills Alberto's mind with guilt and doubt, while his coworkers start mocking him for dating a "weirdo", and his family grieve his lost decency. In the midst of Alberto's predicament, a revelation by Dominique will shake the board.

Cast
Alberto Olmedo as	Alberto aka Laucha
Susana Giménez as	Dominique/María Isabel
Cacho Espíndola as Lince
Tristán as Alfonso
Marcos Zucker as Serafín
Tincho Zabala as Gustavo aka Tordo
María Rosa Fugazot as Delia
Menchu Quesada as Alberto's Mother
Nené Malbrán as Margarita
Adolfo Linvel as Don Francisco
Alita Román as María Isabel's Mother
Pedro Quartucci as María Isabel's Father
Pablo Cumo
Ricardo Jordán
Constanza Maral as Alberto's coworker
Daniel Miglioranza as Alberto's coworker
Alfonso Pícaro as Amigo despedida soltero
Raúl Ricutti
Jorge Porcel
Passage 2:
Mi novia es un fantasma
Mi novia es un fantasma is a 1944 Argentine romantic comedy film directed by Francisco Múgica and starring Mirtha Legrand, Pepe Iglesias, and Nuri Montsé. At the 1945 Argentine Film Critics Association Awards Iglesias won the Silver Condor Award for Best Actor in a Comic Role for his performance in the film.

Cast
Pepe Iglesias
Mirtha Legrand
Nuri Montsé
Osvaldo Miranda
Benita Puértolas
Olga Casares Pearson
Lalo Malcolm
Susana Campos
Vicente Rubino
Mario Giusti
Passage 3:
The Night of Nights
The Night of Nights is a 1939 black-and-white drama film written by Donald Ogden Stewart and directed by Lewis Milestone for Paramount Pictures that starred Pat O'Brien, Olympe Bradna, and Roland Young.The film received positive contemporary reviews from publications such as The New York Times. Director Milestone went on to other successful productions after the film came out, including Ocean's 11 and Pork Chop Hill.

Background
Milestone directed The Night of Nights nine years after winning the 1930 Academy Award for Best Director for All Quiet on the Western Front.

Plot
Dan O'Farrell (Pat O'Brien) is a brilliant Broadway theater playwright, actor, and producer who has left the business.  When he was younger, he and his partner Barry Keith-Trimble (Roland Young) were preparing for the opening night of O'Farell's play Laughter by getting drunk.  When it was time to perform, they were so intoxicated they ended up brawling on stage and fell into the orchestra pit.  The two left the theater and continued drinking, until they learn that they have been suspended. At the same time, O'Farrell learns that his wife, actress Alyce Martelle, is pregnant and has left him for ruining her performance in Laughter as Toni.  Despondent, he in left the business and went into seclusion.
Years later, his daughter Marie (Olympe Bradna) locates him and inspires him to return to Broadway.  He decides to restage Laughter with its original cast, but with Marie substituting for Alyce in the part of Toni.  Hoping to make a glorious return with a show that would be a hit with critics and the public alike, O'Farrell enlists the aid of friends to embark on a full-fledged comeback.

Cast
Reception
Frank S. Nugent wrote for The New York Times that the work of actors Pat O'Brien and Roland Young, had "been a labor of love and the film has profited accordingly." In noting that the plot centered on "the theatre and some of the curious folk who inhabit it", the newspaper's review stated that the film had an acceptable sentimentality and shared that the story was "an uncommonly interesting study of a man's mind, subtly written and directed, presented with honesty and commendable sincerity by Mr. O'Brien, Mr. Young and Olympe Bradna, and well worth any one's attention." The only objection in the review was that the stage play Laughter, the piece being produced within the film by O'Brien's character of Dan O'Farrell, "seemed to be the most awful tripe."
Passage 4:
El fantasma de mi novia
My Girlfriend's Ghost (Spanish: El fantasma de mi novia) is a 2018 Dominican fantasy romantic comedy film directed by Francis Disla,  and stars Carmen Villalobos, and William Levy. The film premiered on May 3, 2018.

Plot
The film revolves around Lupe del Mar, an impertinent and arrogant actress of Mexican telenovelas, who travels to Dominican Republic to make one of her greatest dreams come true, to record a film. She suffers a terrible accident, which leads her to be in a coma and experience fun situations.

Cast
Carmen Villalobos as Lupe del Mar
William Levy as Chepa
Fausto Mata as Juglar Elías Delmonte Carmelo
Susana Dosamantes as Abuela María
Brandon Peniche as Fernando Hurtado
Francisca Lachapel as Deborah Pinales
Elizabeth Gutiérrez as Elena
Passage 5:
MI-2
MI-2 or Mi-2 can refer to:

Michigan's 2nd congressional district
Mil Mi-2, a light helicopter
Mission: Impossible 2, a 2000 action spy film
Anti-Mi-2 antibodies
Mi-2 complex, also known as NuRD (nucleosome remodeling deacetylase) complex
Passage 6:
My Little Eye
My Little Eye is a 2002 British horror film directed by Marc Evans about five adults who agree to spend six months together in an isolated mansion while being filmed at all times. The idea for the film came from reality television shows such as Big Brother. The title refers to the guessing game I spy.

Plot
Five contestants, Matt (Sean Cw Johnson), Emma (Laura Regan), Charlie (Jennifer Sky), Danny (Stephen O'Reilly) and Rex (Kris Lemche), agree to take part in a reality webcast, where they must spend six months in a house to win $1 million. If anyone leaves, then no one wins the money. Nearing the end of the six months, tension between the contestants rises after Emma finds strange messages she believes are from a man from her past and the food packages arrive containing a letter that claims Danny's grandfather has died, and a gun with five bullets.
One night, a man named Travis Patterson (Bradley Cooper) arrives, claiming he is lost in the woods and that his GPS has died. Despite claiming to be an internet programmer, he claims to not recognize any of the contestants or ever having heard of the show. Later that night, Travis has sex with Charlie, and then secretly talks directly into a camera, to communicate with whoever is watching them. The next morning, Travis leaves and Danny discovers his backpack outside covered in blood and shredded to pieces. The contestants assume he was attacked by an animal but Rex believes Travis works for the people running their show and that it is all a trick to make them leave the house and forfeit the prize money.
Emma discovers her underwear among Danny’s belongings and confronts him, unaware that Travis planted them there the previous night. Danny denies it and attempts to make peace by giving her a crudely carved wooden cat, which Emma and Charlie ridicule, while Danny overhears.
The next morning, the group finds Danny has committed suicide by hanging himself from the staircase balcony with a rope. The guests finally decide to leave, but after being unable to contact anyone via radio, decide to wait until the next morning. Rex uses the GPS unit from Travis' bag and his laptop to gain access to the internet to find out more about the show but is unable to find any evidence of their show online.
Rex is only able to find a heavily encrypted beta site, that requires a $50,000 fee to access, and displays a web page with their pictures and betting odds. The group decides they will leave the next morning, though Rex and Emma go up to the roof to set off a flare. While Charlie and Matt remain in the house, Matt asks a camera if he should kill her, before suffocating her with a plastic bag.
Later, while Emma is sleeping, Rex comes downstairs and is decapitated with an axe by Matt. Matt awakens Emma and brings her up to the attic, telling her he is being chased and the others are dead. He then makes advances on Emma, who refuses, and attempts to rape her, before she stabs him in the back and runs off.
Emma runs outside and finds a police officer, who handcuffs her inside the car and enters the house. An injured Matt then crawls out, begging the cop to let him kill Emma, since he spent six months in the house with her. Realizing they are working together, Emma escapes the car and tries to run but is shot in the back with a rifle by the cop.
Matt and the cop sit in the kitchen discussing the setup they created with Travis for their high paying clients who want to witness the murders. When the cop says there are always "five suckers" to play the game with, Matt corrects him to four, and is then shot in the head. The cop then leaves, talking to Travis over the radio, while Emma is seen locked in a small room, unable to escape. As she collapses screaming, the cameras filming all shut off, one by one.

Cast
Sean Cw Johnson as Matt
Kris Lemche as Rex
Stephen O'Reilly as Danny
Laura Regan as Emma
Jennifer Sky as Charlie
Nick Mennell as The Cop
Bradley Cooper as Travis Patterson

Home media
My Little Eye is available on DVD from MCA/Universal Home Video with most of the special features available on the Region 2 Special Edition including a filmmakers' commentary and deleted scenes. There is an audio mode "Conversations of the Company (Eavesdropping Audio Track)" which allows the viewer to listen to the radio conversations between the members of the company: Travis and "the cop". However, during this mode, the viewer cannot hear all of the dialogue of the cast in the scene. A UK release contains a 'Special Mode' where viewers see the film from the perspective of an internet subscriber, and more extra features become unlocked as the film goes on. You can watch other things going on in 'the house' in real time to what's happening in the film.

Reception
The film received polarized but positive reviews and holds 67% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 21 reviews, with an average score of 5.2/10.

See also
List of films featuring surveillance
Passage 7:
The Fabulous Senorita
The Fabulous Senorita is a 1952 American musical comedy film directed by R. G. Springsteen and starring Estelita Rodriguez, Robert Clarke and Nestor Paiva. The film came at the tail-end of a cycle of Latin American-themed films, though it did introduce a new star, Rita Moreno.

Plot
Cast
Estelita Rodriguez as Estelita Rodriguez
Robert Clarke as Jerry Taylor
Nestor Paiva as José Rodriguez
Marvin Kaplan as Clifford Van Kunkle
Rita Moreno as Manuela Rodríguez
Leon Belasco as Señor Gonzales
Tito Renaldo as Pedro Sanchez
Tom Powers as Delaney
Emory Parnell as Dean Bradshaw
Olin Howland as Justice of the Peace
Vito Scotti as Esteban Gonzales
Martin Garralaga as Police Captain Garcia
Nita Del Rey as Felice
Joan Blake as Betty
Frances Dominguez as Amelia
Betty Farrington as Janitress
Norman Field as Dr. Campbell
Clark Howat as Davis
Frank Kreig as Cab Driver
Dorothy Neumann as Mrs. Black
Elizabeth Slifer as Wife of Justice of the Peace
Charles Sullivan as Cab Driver
Arthur Walsh as Pete
Passage 8:
Operation Leopard
La légion saute sur Kolwezi, also known as Operation Leopard, is a French war film directed by Raoul Coutard and filmed in French Guiana. The script is based on the true story of the Battle of Kolwezi that happened in 1978. It was diligently described in a book of the same name by former 1st Foreign Parachute Regiment Captain Pierre Sergent. He published his book in 1979, and the film came out in 1980. Coutard shot the film in a documentary style.

Plot
The film is based on true events. In 1978, approximately 3,000 heavily armed fighters from Katanga crossed the border to the Zaire and marched into Kolwezi, a mining centre for copper and cobalt. They took 3,000 civilians as hostages. Within a few days, between 90 and 280 hostages were killed. The rebels appeared to be unpredictable and are reported to have threatened to annihilate all civilians.
Mobutu Sese Seko, Zaire's head of state, urged Belgium, France and the United States to help. France sent the Foreign Legion's 2nd Foreign Parachute Regiment, which were flown from Corsica to Kolwezi. Following their arrival, they secured the perimeter, in co-operation with Belgian soldiers from Zaire, and then started to evacuate the civilians. Within two days more than 2,000 Europeans and about 3,000 African citizens were saved. The film strives to depict the events in a dramatised form, concentrating on the Europeans' plight.

Production
The late Jean Seberg had filmed scenes on location for the film, but her death caused her to be replaced by another French American actress, Mimsy Farmer, who reshot Seberg's scenes.

Cast
Bruno Cremer: Pierre Delbart
Jacques Perrin:Ambassador Berthier
Laurent Malet: Phillipe Denrémont
Pierre Vaneck: Colonel Grasser
Mimsy Farmer: Annie Devrindt
Giuliano Gemma: Adjudant Fédérico
Robert Etcheverry : Colonel Dubourg
Jean-Claude Bouillon : Maurois
Passage 9:
X-Paroni
X-Paroni (X-Baron) is a 1964 Finnish comedy and the debut of Spede Pasanen as a leading male role and debut as a co-writer and director of a full-length film.

Plot summary
The plot concerns a wealthy but naive baron von Tandem (Pasanen), who is so interested in foreign cultures (particularly Native American), that he is oblivious that people within his own organization are funneling money to a local mafia. While visiting the countryside the baron is mistaken for a lazy but clever and inventive farmer Kalle (also Pasanen), who looks exactly like him, and the two switch places by accident. While the reserved baron manages to charm the simple people of the country village, his lookalike cracks down on the corruption within the baron's business monopoly (often spoken of but never elaborated). This eventually leads the mob attempting to assassinate the baron (actually Kalle), who then flees back to the countryside after learning of his doppelgänger. In the end the baron and Kalle meet and trade places for good, the baron choosing the simple country life and Kalle taking over the baron's business empire.

Production
The film marked Spede's one and only time as a collaborative film-maker with Jaakko Pakkasvirta (who plays James in the film) and Risto Jarva. Although all three share writing-credit, Pasanen was mainly responsible for planning the comedy of the film. Of Spede's future collaborators, the film features a first appearance by Simo Salminen in a minor role, before he would appear more prominently in Millipilleri and several other future films.
The film introduced several conventions of Spede's later work such as gangsters, gadgetry, a luxuriously rich main protagonist and an intentionally fast-paced crazy comedy delivery. Similarly to his later films Noin 7 Veljestä, Speedy Gonzales - Noin Seitsemän Veljeksen Poika, Koeputkiaikuinen ja Simon enkelit and Tup-Akka-Lakko, Pasanen plays a dual-role.

External links
 Media related to X-Paroni at Wikimedia Commons
X-Paroni at IMDb
Passage 10:
Mi novia está de madre
Mi novia está de madre is a Dominican comedy movie released in the summer of 2007.  The film stars Roberto Salcedo, Mexican actress Patricia Manterola, and merengue singer Eddy Herrera.