Passage 1:
Nick Sidi
Nick Sidi (born 22 February 1966) is an English actor. He is the husband of Marianne Elliott and son-in-law of actress Rosalind Knight. He often plays drama or comedy roles on television and frequently appears in BBC dramas.

Filmography
Theatre
Passage 2:
Charles Francis Norton
Charles Francis Norton (1807 – 1835) was a 19th-century Member of Parliament for Guildford.  Norton was also a Captain of 52nd Light Infantry. Through his wife Maria Louisa, née Campbell, he was son-in-law of Sir Colin Campbell; he was also brother-in-law of writer Caroline Norton

Early life
He was the son of Fletcher Norton MP FRSE (1744–1820) and his wife, Caroline Elizabeth Balmain.
His grandfather was Hon. Fletcher Norton. His brother was Hon. Fletcher Norton, 3rd Baron Grantley. While Charles Francis Norton was a Whig, he had a brother the Hon. George Chapple Norton was a Tory, who held office in Guildford from 1826 to 1830.Charles Francis Norton was brought up in Edinburgh, and joined the army after receiving a one seventh share of the residue of his father's estate (valued at £7,438). his regiment was stationed in Nova Scotia during the period of his service (1823–1845).

Political career
Charles Francis Norton briefly entered politics.  He ran as a candidate for Guildford in the general election of 1831 and emerged victorious. He held office from 1831 to 1832, losing the re-election to his conservative rival.

Actions during term
Norton campaigned as a supporter of the grey ministry's reform bill and was returned with another reformer after a four-cornered contest.
He divided for the second reading of the reintroduced reform bill, 6 July, and steadily for its details, except the inclusion of Guildford in schedule B, which he opposed by vote and in his only recorded speech, 29 July 1831. He argued that the town's population was ‘respectable and increasing’ and supported its petition to retain two Members by expanding the boundary, the case for which he regarded as unanswerable. He voted for the bill's passage, 21 Sept., the second reading of the Scottish bill, 23 Sept., and Lord Ebrington's confidence motion, 10 Oct.
He was in the minority for O’Connell's motion to swear in the 11 members of the Dublin election committee, 29 July, but voted with ministers to prosecute only those found guilty of bribery, 23 Aug.
On 5 Nov. he was granted the precedence afforded to the younger sons of peers by letter patent. He divided for the second reading of the revised reform bill (by which Guildford kept both its Members), 17 Dec.
1831, steadily for its details and for the third reading, 22 Mar. 1832. He voted for the address asking the king to appoint only ministers committed to carrying an unimpaired measure, 10 May, and against the Conservative amendment for increased Scottish county representation, 1 June.
He voted against government on the Russian-Dutch loan, 26 Jan., was absent from the division on this issue 12 July, but voted with ministers, 16 July.
He divided with them on relations with Portugal, 9 Feb. 1832.He ran again for Guildford at the general election after his term, but was defeated by one of his Conservative rivals from the previous election.

Later life
Charles Francis Norton returned to an active military career and became assistant military secretary to his father-in-law, following the latter's appointment as governor of Nova Scotia (1834), and it was there that he died suddenly in October 1835, ‘in consequence of drinking cold water, whilst over-heated in the pursuit of moose deer’. He is buried in the Old Burying Ground (Halifax, Nova Scotia).
Maria Louisa subsequently married Edmund Phipps.
Passage 3:
Nikolai Rubinstein
Nikolai Grigoryevich Rubinstein (Russian: Николай Григорьевич Рубинштейн; 14 June [O.S. 2 June] 1835 – 23 March [O.S. 11 March] 1881) was a Russian pianist, conductor, and composer. He was the younger brother of Anton Rubinstein and a close friend of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky.

Life
Born to Jewish parents in Moscow, where his father had just opened a small factory, Rubinstein showed talent at the keyboard early on. He studied piano first with his mother, and while the family was in Berlin between 1844 and 1846, he studied piano with Theodor Kullak and harmony and counterpoint with Siegfried Dehn; during this time both he and his brother Anton attracted the interest and support of Mendelssohn and Meyerbeer.  When the family returned to Moscow, Nikolai studied with Alexander Villoing, who also toured with him. He studied medicine to avoid army conscription, graduating from Moscow University in 1855.
As a result of his playing, Rubinstein was welcomed in all the fashionable artistocratic houses in Moscow. He co-founded the Moscow branch of the Russian Musical Society in 1859 and the Moscow Conservatory in 1866 with Prince Nikolai Petrovitch Troubetzkoy, serving as director of the latter until his death in 1881. He hired Tchaikovsky, then newly graduated from the Saint Petersburg Conservatory, to teach harmony at Moscow Conservatory. He actively encouraged Tchaikovsky's creative efforts and performed his compositions. Rubinstein and Tchaikovsky had a well-known falling-out over the latter's First Piano Concerto, but Rubinstein later revised his position and became an ardent champion of the work. Rubinstein conducted the premiere of Tchaikovsky's opera Eugene Onegin in 1879.  Tchaikovsky wrote his Piano Trio in A minor in Rubinstein's memory after he died from tuberculosis in Paris.Rubinstein also conducted and performed music of the nationalistic music group "The Five" to a much greater degree than his brother. In 1869, when the group's leader, Mily Balakirev, was forced to resign as conductor of the St. Petersburg branch of the Russian Musical Society, Rubinstein gave Balakirev his support, playing at concerts of the Free Music School as Balakirev's guest. He also gave the first performance of Balakirev's piano work Islamey, the work for which he is best known today.

Pianism
Nikolai Rubinstein was generally regarded as one of the greatest pianists of his time, although now his reputation is overshadowed by that of his brother Anton. His pianistic style was quite at odds with that of his fiery brother. He instead opted for a restrained classicism more in line with the musical values of Clara Schumann than Franz Liszt. Edward Garden writes in the New Grove (2001), "His performances emphasized salient details of the structure of a piece and revealed great clarity of detail."According to Harold C. Schonberg, Anton Rubinstein is reported to have said that "if Nikolai had really worked on it, he could have been the better pianist of the two." One of Nikolai's pupils, Emil von Sauer, wrote a comparison of the two brothers' playing styles in 1895:

It is difficult to say which was the better pianist. In every way as different as the brothers were in personal appearance—the one dark, almost to blackness; the other very fair — so different was their playing. The playing of Nicholas was more like that of Tausig, only warmer and more impulsive. Perhaps Anton Rubinstein was the more inspired player of the two, but he was unequal. Nicholas never varied; his playing both in private and in public was always the same, and he kept up the same standard of excellence.

Students
Nikolai Rubinstein's best-known piano students were Sergei Taneyev, Emil von Sauer and Alexander Siloti. Sauer and Siloti went on to study under Franz Liszt. His other notable pupils included Ernst Jedliczka and Henryk Pachulski.

As a composer
Rubinstein was also a composer of some note, though Garden dismisses his music as "unimportant. Among his most popular works is his Tarantella in G minor and his Fantasia on a Theme by Schumann, both for piano solo. When asked why he did not compose more than he did, he replied that his brother Anton "composed enough for three."

Worklist (incomplete)
Op. 11 - Two mazurkas
Op. 13 - Bolero
Op. 14 - Tarentelle in G minor (pub. 1861 for solo piano; pub. 1877 for piano duet; also arranged for 2 pianos)
Op. 15 - Polka for piano in E-flat major
Op. 16 - Valse in A-flat major (later arranged for 2 pianos)
Op. 17 - Scene de Bal (later arranged for 2 pianos)
WoO - Two Feuilles d'Album

Notes
Passage 4:
Robert W. Levering
Robert Woodrow Levering (October 3, 1914 – August 11, 1989) was a U.S. Representative from Ohio, son-in-law of Usher L. Burdick and brother-in-law of Quentin N. Burdick.

Biography
Born near Fredericktown, Ohio was son of Gertrude Alice and Daniel Lloyd Levering, Levering graduated from Fredericktown High School. He earned his Bachelor of Arts in 1936 from Denison University, Granville, Ohio, and his Bachelor of Laws in 1940 from George Washington University Law School, Washington, D.C.  He was a librarian at the Library of Congress from 1937 to 1941, and was a lawyer in private practice.
Levering was in the United States Army Reserve. As a civilian attorney working for the United States War Department in Manila, Philippines, he became a prisoner of war during World War II from 1942 to 1945. He served as assistant attorney general of Ohio from 1949 to 1950. He was an unsuccessful Democratic candidate for election to Congress in 1948, 1950, 1954, and 1956.
Levering was elected as a Democrat to the Eighty-sixth Congress (January 3, 1959 – January 3, 1961).  He was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection to the Eighty-seventh Congress in 1960 and for election in 1962. He died on August 11, 1989, in Fredericktown, Ohio, and his remains were cremated.

Publications
Levering, Robert (1948). Horror trek; a true story of Bataan, the death march and three and one-half years in Japanese prison camps. Horstman Printing Co. ISBN 0806210362. OCLC 1168285.
Passage 5:
Vasily Karatygin
Vasily Andreevich Karatygin (Russian: Василий Андреевич Каратыгин) (10 March [O.S. 26 February] 1802–-25 March [O.S. 13 March] 1853) was a leading actor of Russian Romanticism.
Karatygin joined the Bolshoi Theatre in St Petersburg in 1820 and moved to the Alexandrine Theatre in 1832. He particularly excelled in the numerous productions of Shakespeare's and Schiller's plays, rivalling Moscow's Pavel Mochalov as the greatest Russian actor of his time. The two volumes of his Memoirs are invaluable.
Like other actors of his theatre, Karatygin was buried at the Smolensky Cemetery on Vasilievsky Island. His remains were later transferred to the national pantheon, the Alexander Nevsky Lavra. His wife Alexandra Kolosova was admired for her roles in Molière's comedies.
Passage 6:
Wyndham Goold
Wyndham Goold (1812-1854) was a Member of Parliament (MP) for County Limerick from 1850 to 1854.Goold was educated at Westminster School and Trinity College, Dublin. He was the son  of Frederick Falkiner Goold, Archdeacon of Raphoe and Caroline  Newcomen, and brother in law of Bishop Hamilton Verschoyle
Passage 7:
Pavel Petrovich Bulakhov
Pavel Petrovich Bulakhov (Russian: Павел Петрович Булахов; 1824–1875) was a Russian composer, and brother of Pyotr Bulakhov.
Passage 8:
Pyotr Karatygin
Pyotr Andreyevich Karatygin (Russian: Пётр Андреевич Каратыгин, 11 July 1805, Saint Petersburg, Russian Empire – 6 October 1879, Saint Petersburg, Russian Empire) was a Russian dramatist and actor. The tragic actor Vasily Karatygin (1802-1853) was his brother.Karatygin debuted on stage in 1823 and rose to fame performing in Alexander Griboyedov's Woe from Wit (the parts of Zagoretsky, Repetilov and Chatsky). From 1832 to 1838 he was head of the Drama department in the Saint Petersburg Theatre College, where he discovered and tutored several future Russian stage stars, including Alexander Martynov.
Pyotr Karatygin wrote 68 plays, 53 of them vaudevilles, mostly elaborate variations on foreign plays and Russian novels. In the 1860s and 1870s he wrote a series of short memoirs on the history of the Russian theatre. Edited and previewed by his son, Pyotr Karatygin's Notes were serialized by Russkaya Starina in 1872–1879, to much critical acclaim.
Passage 9:
Robert Vadra
Robert Vadra (born 18 April 1969) is an Indian businessman, entrepreneur and the husband of Priyanka Gandhi. He is the son-in-law of Sonia Gandhi and the brother-in-law of Rahul Gandhi.

Early life and family
Robert Vadra was born to Rajendra and Maureen Vadra on 18 April 1969. His father's family is of Punjabi descent settled in Moradabad district, Uttar Pradesh. His paternal family is originally from Sialkot in present-day Pakistan. Rajendra's father moved to India at the time of partition. His mother Maureen (née McDonagh) is of Scottish origin. Rajendra was a resident of Civil Lines, Moradabad and ran a brass and wood handicrafts business. Vadra has only completed his high school education.Robert Vadra's brother Richard died by suicide and his sister Michelle died in a car accident in 2001. His father was found dead on April 3, 2009 in City Inn, a guest house in the Yusuf Sarai area of Delhi.

Politics
In January 2002, Vadra issued a notice in print newspaper distancing himself from his father and brother as they were misusing his relationship with the Nehru–Gandhi family to make money while promising jobs and other favours. Following this, Sonia Gandhi, the then Congress president also issued a notice to all Congress CMs, state unit heads and senior party members to stay away from Vadra and his family.Until 2012, while Vadra was mostly in the background, he became a target for several opposition parties after the 2012 anti-corruption movement, India against corruption made allegations against him. These allegations got further politicization after several instances of Congress party spokespersons defending allegations on Vadra, stating he was a soft target.While Vadra is not into active politics he has been actively campaigning for his brother-in-law Rahul Gandhi and mother-in-law Sonia Gandhi. In the Lok Sabha elections of 2019, he campaigned actively across India for several candidates. Recently on his 50th birthday, when asked about his intent to join active politics, Vadra stated it would happen 2–3 years later.

Controversies
DLF land grab case
In October 2011, he was accused by Arvind Kejriwal of taking an interest-free loan of 650 million and heavy bargains on land from DLF Limited in exchange for political favours. DLF responded that it had dealt with Vadra as a private entrepreneur, that the loan was Business Advance which was given, as per practice of trade, to make payments for land purchased from Vadra, that the company did not sell him land at a discounted price, and that no quid pro quo took place. Corporation Bank has denied ever providing an overdraft facility of that amount.

Bikaner land case
In February 2019, Rajasthan High Court issued summons to Vadra and his mother Maureen in relation to a 2015 case of illegal land transactions in Kolayat area of Bikaner. The enforcement directorate had filed a case against Vadra's company Skylight hospitality pvt ltd alleging purchase of 69.55 bigha (approx. 28 acres) land in connivance with Rajasthan government officials at sub market rates (7.2 million) and then selling them at exorbitantly higher prices to gain illegal profits. The company had been issued a notice under Prevention of money laundering act in 2016. Subsequently, the company approached Delhi HC and Supreme court in April 2018 for reassessment of their transactions, however the court directed Vadra to appear before the ED and cooperate in investigations. In recent development, the ED has attached the assets of Vadra's company Skylight valued at 46.2 million after Vadra appeared before ED ignoring several previous summons. In January 2020, during his interrogation with the ED, Vadra stated that he had viewed the land locations on Google maps, but could not recollect the source for the funds he used to purchase those.

Gurugram Rajiv Gandhi Trust land grab case
Passage 10:
Greg Penner
Gregory Boyd Penner (born December 18, 1969) is an American businessman and venture capitalist. Penner was named the chairman of Walmart in June 2015. He is the son-in-law of S. Robson Walton and the grandson-in-law of Sam Walton, the founder of Walmart. He is part-owner and CEO of the Denver Broncos.

Early life
Penner is the son of Clifford and Joyce Penner, sex therapists based in Pasadena, California. They have published sex-advice books from a Christian perspective.He earned a degree from  Georgetown University, where he majored in international economics, and an MBA from the Stanford Graduate School of Business in 1997.

Career
He worked as a financial analyst at Goldman Sachs.Prior to being named Walmart chairman, Penner held a variety of roles at Walmart. He started as a store employee and eventually became the CFO of Walmart Japan. He was appointed to the Walmart board of directors in 2008 and was named vice-chairman in 2014.Penner is the founder of Madrone Capital Partners, an investment firm located in Menlo Park, California. He is on the board of directors of Baidu, eHarmony, Hyatt Hotels, Teach for America, and co-chair of Charter School Growth Fund.On August 9, 2022, the NFL owners approved the purchase of the Denver Broncos by a syndicate consisting of Penner, his wife Carrie, S. Robson Walton, Condoleezza Rice, Mellody Hobson, and Sir Lewis Hamilton. The next day, the Broncos announced that Penner would also be taking over as the team's new CEO after Joe Ellis stepped down from the position. In his role, Penner is operating head of the franchise. He will have primary responsibility for the Broncos' day-to-day football and business operations in collaboration with his partners in the Walton-Penner Family Ownership Group.

Personal life
Penner is married to Carrie Walton Penner, the daughter of S. Robson Walton. Penner met his wife while they were undergraduates at Georgetown University. They have four children and live in Atherton, California.