Passage 1:
Emigrant Pass (Nevada)
Emigrant Pass is a mountain pass in Eureka County, Nevada, United States. It originally carried the California Trail over the Emigrant Hills of northern Eureka County, reaching a peak elevation of 6,125 feet (1,867 m). Interstate 80 now follows the California Trail's route over the pass.
Passage 2:
The California Trail
The California Trail is a 1933 American pre-Code
Western film directed by Lambert Hillyer starring Buck Jones, Helen Mack and Luis Alberni.

Cast
Buck Jones as Santa Fe Stewart (as Charles 'Buck' Jones)
Helen Mack as Dolores Ramirez
Luis Alberni as Commandant Emilio Quierra
George Humbert as Mayor Alberto Piedra (as George Humbart)
Charles Stevens as Juan
Carlos Villarías as Governor Carlos Moreno (as Carlos Villar)
Chris-Pin Martin as Pancho (as Chrispin Martin)
Carmen Laroux as Juan's wife (as Carmen La Roux)
William Steele as Pedro (as Robert Steele)
Al Ernest Garcia as Sergeant Florez (as Allan Garcia)
Émile Chautard as Don Marco Ramirez (as Emile Chautard)

External links
The California Trail at IMDb
The California Trail at AllMovie
The California Trail at the TCM Movie Database
The California Trail at the American Film Institute Catalog
Passage 3:
Coney Island Baby (film)
Coney Island Baby is a 2003 comedy-drama in which film producer Amy Hobby made her directorial debut. Karl Geary wrote the film and Tanya Ryno was the film's producer. The music was composed by Ryan Shore. The film was shot in Sligo, Ireland, which is known locally as "Coney Island".
The film was screened at the Newport International Film Festival. Hobby won the Jury Award for "Best First Time Director".
The film made its premiere television broadcast on the Sundance Channel.

Plot
After spending time in New York City, Billy Hayes returns to his hometown. He wants to get back together with his ex-girlfriend and take her back to America in hopes of opening up a gas station. But everything isn't going Billy's way - the townspeople aren't happy to see him, and his ex-girlfriend is engaged and pregnant. Then, Billy runs into his old friends who are planning a scam.

Cast
Karl Geary - Billy Hayes
Laura Fraser - Bridget
Hugh O'Conor - Satchmo
Andy Nyman - Franko
Patrick Fitzgerald - The Duke
Tom Hickey - Mr. Hayes
Conor McDermottroe - Gerry
David McEvoy - Joe
Thor McVeigh - Magician
Sinead Dolan - Julia

Music
The film's original score was composed by Ryan Shore.

External links
Coney Island Baby (2006) at IMDb
MSN - Movies: Coney Island Baby
Passage 4:
Bajo otro sol
Bajo otro sol (Spanish for Under Another Sun), is a 1988 Argentine film.

Plot summary
Manuel Ojeda, a rural lawyer who previously worked as a teacher during the dictatorship, returns to his hometown in Córdoba, Argentina. Motivated by a desire for justice, he embarks on a mission to avenge a disappeared comrade. The missing person, a member of the Peronist Youth, was targeted by Alberto Barrantes, a former employee of the factory where he was employed. Determined to uncover the truth, Manuel sets out to locate the missing individual.

Cast
Carlos Centeno
Laura Cikra
Ulises Dumont
Jorge González
Miguel Angel Sola
Passage 5:
The Wonderful World of Captain Kuhio
The Wonderful World of Captain Kuhio (クヒオ大佐, Kuhio Taisa, lit. "Captain Kuhio") is a 2009 Japanese comedy-crime film, directed by Daihachi Yoshida, based on Kazumasa Yoshida's 2006 biographical novel, Kekkon Sagishi Kuhio Taisa (lit. "Marriage swindler Captain Kuhio"), that focuses on a real-life marriage swindler, who conned over 100 million yen (US$1.2 million) from a number of women between the 1970s and the 1990s.The film was released in Japan on 10 October 2009.

Cast
Masato Sakai - Captain Kuhio
Yasuko Matsuyuki - Shinobu Nagano
Hikari Mitsushima - Haru Yasuoka
Yuko Nakamura - Michiko Sudo
Hirofumi Arai - Tatsuya Nagano
Kazuya Kojima - Koichi Takahashi
Sakura Ando - Rika Kinoshita
Masaaki Uchino - Chief Fujiwara
Kanji Furutachi - Shigeru Kuroda
Reila Aphrodite
Sei Ando

Awards
At the 31st Yokohama Film Festival
Best Actor – Masato Sakai
Best Supporting Actress – Sakura Ando
Passage 6:
Riding the Wave
Riding the Wave may refer to:

Riding the Wave (album), 2004 album by The Blanks
"Riding the Wave (song)", a 2018 single by Sheppard

See also
Riding the Wave: The Whale Rider Story, documentary film by Jonathan Brough about the feature film Whale Rider
"Riding the Waves (For Virginia Woolf)", a song by Steve Harley on the 1978 album Hobo with a Grin
Passage 7:
Riding the Edge
Riding the Edge is a 1989 film directed by James Fargo and starring Raphael Sbarge and Catherine Mary Stewart.

Synopsis
When his scientist father is kidnapped by Middle-Eastern terrorists, Matt Harman (Raphael Sbarge), a championship motocross contestant, is designated by his dad's captors as the ideal courier. Western governments agree that the boy can serve as a go-between, and he is all prepared to deliver a special computer chip to the terrorists. He is accompanied in his travels by lovely female secret agent Maggie Cole (Catherine Mary Stewart) and a local Middle Eastern boy who has the rare distinction of also being royalty. Together, they work to save Matt's father and defeat the terrorists.

Cast
Raphael Sbarge as Matt Harman
Catherine Mary Stewart as Maggie Cole
James Fargo as Tarek
Passage 8:
Del sol
Del Sol or del Sol may refer to:

Del Sol, Texas, a census-designated place in Texas
Del Sol-Loma Linda, Texas, a former census-designated place in Texas
Del Sol High School, a high school in Las Vegas, Nevada
Del Sol High School (California), a high school in Oxnard, California
Del Sol Press, a publishing company
Del Sol metro station, a station in Santiago, Chile
Luis del Sol, former Spanish footballer
Honda CR-X del Sol, a two-seat, targa top convertible manufactured by Honda in the 1990s
Del Sol Quartet, a San Francisco-based string quartet
Passage 9:
Riding the California Trail
Riding the California Trail is a 1947 American Western film directed by William Nigh and written by Clarence Upson Young. The film stars Gilbert Roland as the Cisco Kid, Martin Garralaga, Frank Yaconelli, Teala Loring, Inez Cooper and Ted Hecht. The film was released on January 11, 1947, by Monogram Pictures.

Plot
Cast
Gilbert Roland as The Cisco Kid / Don Luis Salazar
Martin Garralaga as Don José Ramirez
Frank Yaconelli as Baby
Teala Loring as Raquel
Inez Cooper as Delores Ramirez
Ted Hecht as Don Raoul Pedro Reyes
Marcelle Grandville as Dueña Rosita
Passage 10:
Riding the Wind
Riding the Wind is a 1942 American Western film directed by Edward Killy and starring Tim Holt.

Plot
A cowboy fights against a schemer who is manipulating water rights.