Passage 1:
Puka Rumi
Puka Rumi (Quechua puka red, rumi stone, "red stone", Hispanicized spelling Pucarumi) is a 5,000-metre-high (16,404 ft) mountain in the northern part of the Chunta mountain range in the Andes of Peru. It is situated in the Huancavelica Region, Huancavelica Province, Acobambilla District, and in the Junín Region, Huancayo Province, Chongos Alto District. Puka Rumi lies southeast of Ñawinqucha.
Passage 2:
Yana Urqu (Q'umirqucha)
Yana Urqu (Quechua yana black, urqu mountain, "black mountain", Hispanicized spelling Yanaorjo) is a mountain in the Andes of Peru, about 4,800 metres (15,748 ft) high. It is situated in the Cusco Region, Quispicanchi Province, Marcapata District. It lies southwest of Wanakuni and west of a little lake named Q'umirqucha.
Passage 3:
Yana Urqu (Mizque)
Yana Urqu (Quechua yana black, urqu mountain, "black mountain", also spelled Yana Orkho) is a 3,572-metre-high (11,719 ft) mountain in the Bolivian Andes. It is located in the Cochabamba Department, Mizque Province, Mizque Municipality. The Yana Urqu Mayu ("black mountain river") originates northwest of the mountain. Its waters flow to the Mizque River.
Passage 4:
Yana Urqu (Yayamari)
Yana Urqu (Quechua yana black, urqu mountain, "black mountain", Hispanicized spelling Yanaorjo) is a mountain in the Willkanuta mountain range in the Andes of Peru, about 5,000 metres (16,404 ft) high. It is situated in the Cusco Region, Quispicanchi Province, Marcapata District. Yana Urqu lies southwest of the mountain Q'illu Wallayuq and northeast of Yayamari.
Passage 5:
Yana Urqu (Lima)
Yana Urqu (Quechua yana black, urqu mountain, "black mountain", also spelled Yana Orco) is mountain in the Cordillera Central in the Andes of Peru which reaches a height of approximately  4,800 metres (15,748 ft). It is located in the Lima Region, Yauyos Province,  Laraos District. Yana Urqu lies northwest of Uchku and a lake named Pumaqucha.
Passage 6:
Yana Urqu (Jaqhichuwa)
Yana Urqu (Quechua yana black, urqu mountain, "black mountain", Hispanicized spelling Yanaorjo) is a mountain in the Willkanuta mountain range in the Andes of Peru, about 4,800 metres (15,748 ft) high. It is situated in the Cusco Region, Quispicanchi Province, Marcapata District. Yana Urqu lies southeast of the mountain Jaqhichuwa.
Passage 7:
Yana Urqu (Castrovirreyna)
Yana Urqu (Quechua yana black, urqu mountain, "black mountain", Hispanicized spelling Yana Orjo) is a mountain in the Chunta mountain range in the Andes of Peru, about 5,000 metres (16,404 ft) high. It is located in the Huancavelica Region, Castrovirreyna Province, Santa Ana District. Yana Urqu lies south of Wayra Q'asa.
Passage 8:
Yana Urqu (Apurímac)
Yana Urqu (Quechua yana black, urqu mountain, "black mountain", hispanicized spelling Yanaorjo) is a mountain in the north of the Wansu mountain range in the Andes of Peru, about 5,000 m (16,404 ft) high. It is situated in the Apurímac Region, Antabamba Province, Oropesa District. Yana Urqu lies southwest of Willkarana and Kisu Qutu.
Passage 9:
Yana Urqu (Chapi Urqu)
Yana Urqu (Quechua yana black, urqu mountain, "black mountain", Hispanicized spelling Yanaorcco) is a 4,890-metre-high (16,040 ft) mountain in the Andes of Peru. It is located in the Huancavelica Region, Huancavelica Province, Huacocolpa District. Yana Urqu lies southeast of Chapi Urqu and northeast of Inqhana.
Passage 10:
Yana Urqu (Huancavelica)
Yana Urqu (Quechua yana black, urqu mountain, "black mountain", hispanicized spelling Yana Orjo) is a mountain in the Chunta mountain range in the Andes of Peru, about 5,000 metres (16,404 ft) high. It is located in the Huancavelica Region, Huancavelica Province, Huacocolpa District. Yana Urqu lies northwest of Inqhana and northeast of Wayra Q'asa.