Passage 1:
Magic Mountain
Magic Mountain or The Magic Mountain may refer to:

Books
The Magic Mountain, a novel by Thomas Mann

Places
Magic Mountain (California), a landform that was Nike missile location LA-98R
Magic Mountain (British Columbia), a hydrothermal vent field on the Pacific Ocean sea floor
Magic Mountain site, a prehistoric archaeological site in Colorado
Magic Mountain, Vermont, a natural ski area in Londonderry, Vermont
Magic Mountain (Washington), a mountain on the border of North Cascades National Park and Snoqualmie National Forest, Washington, USA

Parks and Recreation
Magic Mountain (roller coaster), a steel roller coaster in Castelnuovo del Garda, Italy
Magic Mountain, Glenelg, a former theme park in Glenelg, Australia
Magic Mountain Resort, a small ski area south of Twin Falls, Idaho
Magic Mountain, Merimbula, a theme park in Australia
Magic Mountain (New Brunswick), a water park in Moncton, New Brunswick
Magic Mountain, Nobby Beach, a former theme park on the Gold Coast, Australia
Six Flags Magic Mountain, a theme park in Valencia, California

Film and TV
The Magic Mountain (1982 film), a film directed by Hans W. Geißendörfer
The Magic Mountain (2015 film), a film directed by Anca Damian
Magic Mountain (TV series), an Australian and Chinese children's programme

Music
"Magic Mountain" (song), by Eric Burdon & War (1977)
Magic Mountain (Hans Koller album) (1997)
Magic Mountain (Black Stone Cherry album) (2014)
"Magic Mountain", a song by Blonde Redhead from Misery Is a Butterfly (2004)
"Magic Mountain", a song by the Drums from Encyclopedia (2014)
Passage 2:
1994–95 Orlando Magic season
The 1994–95 NBA season was the Magic's 6th season in the National Basketball Association. After building through the draft in previous years, the Magic made themselves even stronger by signing free agents Horace Grant, who won three championships with the Chicago Bulls, and Brian Shaw during the off-season. The Magic got off to a fast start winning 22 of their first 27 games, then later holding a 37–10 record at the All-Star break. Despite losing seven of their final eleven games in April, the Magic easily won the Atlantic Division with a 57–25 record. They also finished with a 39–2 home record, tied for second best in NBA history.
Shaquille O'Neal continued to dominate the NBA with 29.3 points, 11.4 rebounds and 2.4 blocks per game, and was named to the All-NBA Second Team, while second-year star Penny Hardaway averaged 20.9 points, 7.2 assists and 1.7 steals per game, while being named to the All-NBA First Team, and Grant gave the Magic one of the most dominant starting lineups in the NBA, averaging 12.8 points and 9.7 rebounds per game, as he was named to the NBA All-Defensive Second Team. In addition, Nick Anderson provided the team with 15.8 points and 1.6 steals per game, while three-point specialist Dennis Scott played a sixth man role, averaging 12.9 points per game off the bench, Donald Royal contributed 9.1 points and 4.0 rebounds per game as the team's starting small forward, and Shaw contributed 6.4 points and 5.2 assists per game off the bench. O'Neal and Hardaway were both selected to play in the 1995 NBA All-Star Game, with head coach Brian Hill coaching the Eastern Conference. O'Neal also finished in second place in Most Valuable Player voting, while Hardaway finished in tenth place, and Scott finished in fifth place in Sixth Man of the Year voting.In the Eastern Conference First Round of the playoffs, the Magic overwhelmed the Boston Celtics with a 124–77 victory in Game 1. Despite losing Game 2 at home, 99–92, the Magic would eliminate the Celtics at the Boston Garden to win the series, 3–1. These matches would be the final 2 basketball games ever played at the Garden. Coincidentially, O’Neal played his final game in Boston 16 years later with the 2010–11 Boston Celtics before retiring from the NBA at 39 years old.In the Eastern Conference Semi-finals, the Magic were matched up against the 5th-seeded Chicago Bulls. The Bulls were on an emotional high as Michael Jordan had just returned from his baseball career to play basketball. Jordan was now wearing the number 45 for the Bulls. The Magic won the first game 94–91. Tensions rose when Anderson indicated that Jordan was no longer the same player when Anderson was quoted by the media saying, "No. 45 doesn't explode like No. 23 used to. No. 23, he could just blow by you. He took off like a space shuttle. No. 45, he revs up, but he really doesn't take off." The comment motivated Jordan to return to number 23 and the Bulls evened the series with a 104–94 road win in Game 2. With the series tied at two games a piece, the Magic won Game 5 at home, 103–95. The Magic would eliminate the Bulls in Game 6 as the Magic won, 108–102 to advance to the conference finals.In the Eastern Conference finals, the Magic would beat Reggie Miller, and the 2nd-seeded and Central Division champion Indiana Pacers in a tough 7-game series that saw the home team win every game. The Magic were off to their first ever NBA Finals appearance.
In the Finals, the Magic faced off against the 6th-seeded and defending NBA champion Houston Rockets. Shaq would be up against Hakeem Olajuwon in a battle of All-Star Centers. Game 1 was played in Orlando and the game was lost at the free-throw line. Anderson missed four consecutive free throws with the Magic up by three at the waning seconds of the game and the Rockets tied the game at the buzzer. The Rockets would then win Game 1 in overtime, 120–118. The Magic would not recover from their Game 1 loss as the Rockets swept the series in four straight. Following the season, Anthony Avent was traded to the newly expansion Vancouver Grizzlies, and Tree Rollins retired.
For the season, the Magic added new blue pinstripe road uniforms, while the black pinstripe jerseys became their alternate. Both uniforms remained in use until 1998. Orlando did not make another appearance in the NBA Finals until 2009.

Draft picks
Roster
Regular season
Season standings
Record vs. opponents
Game log
Regular season
Playoffs
Player statistics
Season
Playoffs
Awards and honors
Shaquille O'Neal – All-NBA 2nd team, Scoring Champion, All-Star
Penny Hardaway – All-NBA 1st Team, All-Star
Horace Grant – All-Defensive 2nd Team
Brian Hill – All-Star East Head Coach

Transactions
Trades
Free agents
Player Transactions Citation:
Passage 3:
The Magic Christian
The Magic Christian  may refer to:

Magic Christian (magician) (born 1945)
Magic Christian Music, an album by Badfinger featuring three songs from the 1969 film
The Magic Christian (film), a 1969 film
The Magic Christian (novel), a 1959 comic novel by Terry Southern

See also
Christian views on magic
Magic cristian, American musician Phil Cristian
Passage 4:
Celebrate the Magic
Celebrate the Magic was a nighttime show at the Magic Kingdom park of Walt Disney World, that premiered on November 13, 2012. It replaced The Magic, the Memories and You display, a similar show that ran at the Magic Kingdom and Disneyland from January 2011 to September 4, 2012.Celebrate the Magic takes place on Cinderella Castle and includes a contemporary musical score, projection mappings, pyrotechnics and lighting. A three-dimensional computer-generated rendering of Cinderella Castle was released by Disney in August 2012, revealing some of the various designs that will be displayed on the structure.On October 26, 2016, it was announced that the show would be replaced by Once Upon a Time formerly from Tokyo Disneyland. The last Celebrate the Magic took place on November 3, 2016.

Plot
Tinker Bell introduces the show as she appears flying over the castle's turrets. The castle is transformed into a paper canvas as Walt Disney appears sketching Mickey Mouse in his iconic Steamboat Willie appearance. Tinkerbell enchants a paintbrush, which then becomes the host of the show. A kaleidoscope featuring images of Mickey, Donald Duck and Goofy are projected followed soon after by short clips from Cinderella, Pinocchio and The Princess and the Frog. The show then progresses into longer, classic scenes from Disney films, including; Alice in Wonderland, Dumbo, Wreck-It Ralph, The Lion King, Tarzan,  The Jungle Book, Lady and the Tramp, Tangled, Toy Story, Pirates of the Caribbean and Frozen. The show's climax features a fast-paced montage of characters and scenes from such other Disney films as Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, Bambi, Sleeping Beauty, Pocahontas, Up, Peter Pan, The Little Mermaid, Finding Nemo, Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin, and Tangled. During the montage Walt Disney appears again, via archival footage, reciting one of his most famous quotes; "I only hope that we never lose sight of one thing – that it was all started by a mouse". The show then proceeds into a synchronized pyrotechnic finale.

Seasonal outlook
Similar to its predecessor, Celebrate the Magic will showcase sequences from that will be appropriately themed to seasonal parts of the year. The show premiered with the original Christmas segment from The Magic, the Memories and You. The summer months show films such as Phineas and Ferb, The Little Mermaid and Lilo & Stitch, in addition, segments featuring Disney Princesses and couples for Valentine's Day and Disney Villains for Halloween are shown, and in the winter, Frozen is showcased.
The summer edition debuted during the Monstrous Summer All-Nighter event on May 24, 2013 until August 31, 2013. The Halloween edition featuring the Disney villains debuted on September 1, 2013 until October 31, 2013.
A new segment based on Frozen debuted on November 17, 2013 replacing a segment based on Brave.

See also
Celebrate! Tokyo Disneyland
Disneyland Forever
Together Forever: A Pixar Nighttime Spectacular
Once Upon a Time
Passage 5:
Above Rubies
Above Rubies is a 1932 British comedy film directed by Frank Richardson and starring Zoe Palmer, Robin Irvine and Tom Helmore. It is set in Monte Carlo.It was made at Walton Studios as a quota quickie for release by United Artists.

Cast
Zoe Palmer as Joan Wellingford
Robin Irvine as Philip
Tom Helmore as Paul
John Deverell as Lord Middlehurst
Franklyn Bellamy as Dupont
Allan Jeayes as Lamont
Madge Snell as Lady Wellingford
Passage 6:
Magic Keyboard
The Magic Keyboard is an Apple trademark used on several of their keyboards, referring to:

Magic Keyboard (Mac), a wireless keyboard released by Apple in 2015
Magic Keyboard for iPad, a wireless keyboard with an integrated trackpad for use in iPads with a Smart Connector, released in 2020
The built-in keyboard of the MacBook Pro since 2019 and MacBook Air since 2020. Older Apple notebook keyboards that used the butterfly-switch mechanism do not use this brand name.
Passage 7:
Got the Magic
Got the Magic may refer to:

Got the Magic (Celtic Harp Orchestra album), 2003
Got the Magic (Spyro Gyra album), 1999
Passage 8:
The Magic Aster
The Magic Aster (马兰花; Ma Lan Hua) is a Chinese animated film released June 19, 2009 by Shanghai Animation Film Studio, Xiamen Shangchen Science and Technology company and the Shanghai Chengtai investment management company.

Cast
The film included a notable cast of celebrities for the voice over of the on-screen characters.
Passage 9:
The Magic House
The Magic House may refer to:

The Magic House (film), a 1939 Czech film
The Magic House (TV series), a 1994–1996 British children's television puppet show that aired on Scottish Television
The Magic House, St. Louis Children's Museum, children's museum in  Missouri
The Magic House is a magical event in the television series Teletubbies about a puppet who walks around his pink house and sings from one of his windows.
Passage 10:
A Price Above Rubies
A Price Above Rubies is a 1998 British-American drama film written and directed by Boaz Yakin and starring Renée Zellweger. The story centers on a young woman who finds it difficult to conform to the restrictions imposed on her by her community. Reviews of the film itself were mixed, though there were generally positive reviews of Zellweger's performance.
The title derives from a Jewish Sabbath tradition. The acrostic Sabbath chant The Woman of Valor (eishet chayil) begins with the verse "... Who can find a woman of valor, her price is far above rubies ... ," which in turn is excerpted from The Book of Proverbs. This chant traditionally is a prelude to the weekly toast (kiddush) which begins the Sabbath meal.

Plot summary
Sonia is  a young Brooklyn woman who has just given birth to her first child. She is married, through an arranged marriage, to Mendel, a devout Hasidic Jew who is too repressed and immersed in his studies to give his wife the attention she craves. He even condemns her for making sounds during sex and considers nudity with sex "indecent".
Sonia is distressed and later, after a panic attack, she tries to kiss her sister-in-law Rachel. Rachel persuades her to talk to the Rebbe but Sonia cannot truly articulate what is upsetting her, instead resorting to a metaphor of a fire burning her up.
Sonia develops a relationship with Sender, who brings her into his jewellery business. Her husband forgets her birthday and Sonia says she longs for something beautiful in her life - even if it is a terrible beauty. Sender is the only release for Sonia's sexuality but she is repelled by his utter lack of morals. He is also abrupt and self-centred in his seductions, never waiting for Sonia to achieve orgasm.
Sonia sometimes sees and hears her brother. He appears as a child and judges her actions. On one occasion she buys a non-kosher egg roll whilst in Chinatown and her brother tells her off and an elderly street beggar-woman sees him and offers him candy. She comments on another woman's earrings and this leads Sonia to track down the maker of a ring she had discovered earlier that day.
The maker is Puerto Rican artist and jewellery designer Ramon, who works as a salesperson in the jewellery quarter but keeps his artistry a secret from everyone in the business.
Later Sonia's husband tells her she cannot continue to work. She is furious. Her husband insists they see a marriage counsellor (their rabbi) but the man decides Sonia is not being a good enough Jew. She says she is tired of being afraid and if she is so offensive to God then 'let him do what he wants to me.' The counsellor says we bring suffering upon ourselves but Sonia protests that her relatives who were murdered in the Holocaust and her brother who died when he was ten did not deserve their suffering. The counsellor says that 'we' do not question the ways of God but Sonia corrects this to 'you' and asserts that she will question whatever she wants to.
Sonia stops wearing her wig and starts wearing a headscarf instead. She introduces Ramon and some samples to a jewellery buyer who expresses an interest in his potential as a designer. They argue at Ramon's flat as she becomes bossy over his career, and he tries to get her to model (clothed) with a naked male model so he can complete a sculpture. She runs away.
Sonia's marriage breaks down irrevocably. Sonia is locked out of her apartment, and finds that her son has been given to Rachel. She is told she may live in a tiny apartment owned by Sender and kept for 'business purposes'. When she arrives, Sender is eating at a table and it is clear he has set her up as his mistress when she asks what the price is to stay: he says above that of emeralds but below the price of rubies. This is 'freedom'. Sonia hands him back the keys and leaves.
None of her friends will take her phone calls and Sonia is homeless. She meets the beggar-woman on the street and is taken to an empty studio and given food. The woman refers to an old legend (one her brother spoke of at the start of the film), to encourage Sonia. Meantime, Mendel takes back his son - for nights only. Rachel protests but he says he would appreciate her caring for his son during the day when he is studying.
Sonia now goes to Ramon's place and he lets her stay. She says he was right to be wary of her when they met as she has destroyed every good thing she had. But Ramon disagrees, removes her jewellery, and points out that her necklace is 'a chain'. (It is unclear if the necklace is of religious significance or if he means the need to have financial security through jewellery is a chain or restriction). The two end up kissing.
Sonia dreams her brother returns from the lake to say he swam, and she - as her childhood self - says she swam too. When she wakes up in Ramon's bed there is a prominent crucifix on the wall. Sonia goes to speak to the widow of the Rebbe. The widow tells her that Sonia's words about being consumed by fire had awoken a fire in the Rebbe and for the first time in 20 years he had said 'I love you.' It is implied that they made love and the Rebbe had a heart attack. The widow is not unhappy with this outcome. She assists Sonia in reclaiming property from Sender's safe.
With Ramon's ring back in her keeping she returns it to Ramon. She doesn't want to stay as she does not feel she belongs. Ramon offers her time to think about what she wants.
Mendel arrives. Sonia asks after her son and then if Mendel misses her. He shakes his head. He asks the same of her and she shakes her head. They laugh. He apologises for forgetting her birthday but he knows that this was not all it was about. He gives her a ruby as token of his regret and invites her to visit their son.
Mendel leaves and Sonia says, 'God bless you'.

Cast
Renée Zellweger as Sonia Horowitz
Christopher Eccleston as Sender Horowitz
Julianna Margulies as Rachel
Allen Payne as Ramon Garcia
Glenn Fitzgerald as Mendel Horowitz
Shelton Dane as Yossi
Kim Hunter as Rebbetzin
John Randolph as Rebbe Moshe
Kathleen Chalfant as Beggar Woman
Peter Jacobson as Schmuel
Edie Falco as Feiga
Allen Swift as Mr. Fishbein

Production
It was shot in Brooklyn during 1997. Entertainment Weekly reported that a group of onlookers, upset over the film's depiction of Judaism, got in the way of shooting one day. The producers faced backlash for casting Zellweger, who did not follow Judaism, in the lead role. Director Boaz Yakin remarked, "Zellweger was the best actor for the part. She is an actor. The Jews that worked on this film knew less about the Hasidic lifestyle than Renee did after reading 10 books about it. So, being a Jew doesn't qualify you to act the part any more than any other thing. It was more important for each actor and actress to find the emotional light of their character and learn to wear it like a second skin."

Reception
Roger Ebert of Chicago Sun-Times gave the movie three stars. While impressed by Zellweger's "ferociously strong performance", he found the film did not teach us "much about her society", and that the Hasidic community could have been treated in greater depth. Charles Taylor of Salon likewise appreciated Zellweger's performance, while also finding the cultural aspect treated too superficially. He described Sonia's choices as "clichés left over from the Liberated Woman movies of 20 years ago", and the movie generally as "that old middle-of-the-road groaner about the good and bad in every race". Maria Garcia of Film Journal International was more positively inclined to the movie, and called it a "beautifully wrought, skillfully rendered, and brilliantly acted film".