Passage 1:
Georg, Prince of Saxe-Meiningen
Georg, Prince of Saxe-Meiningen (11 October 1892 – 6 January 1946) was the head of the house of Saxe-Meiningen from 1941 until his death.

Biography
He was born in Kassel the eldest son of Prince Frederick Johann of Saxe-Meiningen (1861-1914) and Countess Adelaide of Lippe-Biesterfeld (1870–1948). His father was a son of Georg II, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen and his mother a daughter of Count Ernst of Lippe-Biesterfeld. Georg studied law at the Universities of Munich and Jena.Georg suspended his studies to serve in World War I and saw action as a Captain in a cavalry regiment. His uncle Bernhard III abdicated on 10 November 1918 following the German Revolution as the German monarchies were abolished. After the war he resumed his law studies and for a time served as a substitute judge for the town of Hildburghausen in the Free State of Thuringia. On 1 May 1933 he joined the Nazis, becoming NSDAP member (# 2.594.794).
After the death of his uncle Ernst on 29 December 1941, Georg succeeded to the headship of the house of Saxe-Meiningen and assumed the title of Duke of Saxe-Meiningen and style Georg III.
Georg died in the Russian prisoner of war camp near Cherepovets (Tscherepowetz in German) in Northern Russia. His heir was his second and only surviving son Prince Frederick Alfred who renounced the succession, being a monk in 1953, allowing it to pass to his uncle Bernhard.

Marriage and children
He was married in Freiburg im Breisgau on 22 February 1919 to Countess Klara Marie von Korff genannt Schmising-Kerssenbrock (Darmstadt, 31 May 1895 - Högerhof bei Türnitz, Lower Austria, 10 February 1992). They had four children:

Ancestry
Passage 2:
Ernest II, Duke of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg
Ernest II, Duke of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg (Gotha, 30 January 1745 – Gotha, 20 April 1804) was the reigning Duke of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg from 1772 to 1804. He was the third but second surviving son of Frederick III, Duke of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg and Luise Dorothea of Saxe-Meiningen. The death of his older brother Frederick in 1756 made him the heir to the duchy of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg.

Early life
Luise Dorothea was intensely worried about the training of her surviving sons, Ernest and her youngest son August, and had them educated by a select group of teachers. In 1768 and 1769, both princes went on an educational journey to the Netherlands, England and France, and Ernest met important people in politics, science and the arts.

Succession
In 1772 his father died, and Ernest inherited the duchy of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg. As a liberal and enlightened prince, he was interested in the arts and sciences and used his reign to further them. He promoted the educational system, the economy, theatre, art collections and libraries as well as the natural sciences in his duchy, which was thereby ranked in the top place of the Saxon duchies in Thuringia. Privately, he was particularly interested in astronomy and physics. He appointed competent specialists in all of these areas like the mechanic and clockmaker Johann Andreas Klindworth to whom he granted the title of court mechanic.For his special interests, he employed the services of the important astronomer Franz Xaver von Zach for Gotha. With him, he established the Observatory of Gotha (Sternwarte Gotha), which developed into a European centre of astronomy. His will stated that this institution should survive as the only visible indication of his existence. It was so successful that Gotha, despite its size, was thought of as a place that important people of the time should visit. One such person was Goethe, who visited several times.

Freemasonry
From 1774 he was a Freemason in the Zinnendorf system and a member of the Gotha Lodge Zum Rautenkranz, which had been founded by Abel Seyler, Konrad Ekhof and other members of the Seyler Theatre Company in the same year. In 1775, he was appointed Grand Master of the Landesloge of Germany (Zinnendorf system). In 1783, he became a member of the Bavarian Illuminati under the name of Quintus Severus and/or Timoleon, and in 1784, he was made Supervisor of Abessinien (a name for Upper Saxony). In 1787, he granted Adam Weishaupt, the founder of the secret society, asylum in Gotha. He was buried wrapped in a white cloth on the park island.

Descendants
In Meiningen on 21 March 1769, Ernest married Princess Charlotte of Saxe-Meiningen, the half-first cousin of his mother. They had four sons:

Ernest (b. Gotha, 27 February 1770 – d. Gotha, 3 December 1779).
Emil Leopold August, Duke of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg (b. Gotha, 23 November 1772 – d. Gotha, 27 May 1822), known as Augustus.
Frederick IV, Duke of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg (b. Gotha, 28 November 1774 – d. Gotha, 11 February 1825).
Ludwig (b. Gotha, 21 October 1777 – d. Gotha, 26 October 1777).

Ancestors
Passage 3:
Karl Wilhelm, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen
August Friedrich Karl Wilhelm, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen (Frankfurt, 19 November 1754 – Sonneberg, 21 July 1782), was a duke of Saxe-Meiningen.

Family
He was the first son of Anton Ulrich, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen and Charlotte Amalie of Hesse-Philippsthal.

Reign
August Friedrich succeeded his father in the duchy of Saxe-Meiningen (1763) when he was only eight years old. Because of this, his mother, the Dowager Duchess Charlotte Amalie, acted as regent during his minority, which ended in 1779. He was succeeded by his last younger surviving brother, Georg.

Marriage
In Gedern on 5 June 1780, Karl Wilhelm married Louise of Stolberg-Gedern. They had no children. The widowed Louise later married Duke Eugen of Württemberg and had issue.

Ancestry
Passage 4:
Princess Feodora of Saxe-Meiningen
Princess Feodora of Saxe-Meiningen (Feodora Viktoria Auguste Marie Marianne; 12 May 1879 – 26 August 1945) was born at Potsdam, the only child of Bernhard III, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen, and his wife, Princess Charlotte of Prussia (the eldest daughter of Frederick III, German Emperor, and Victoria, Princess Royal). Feodora was the first great-grandchild of both Queen Victoria of Great Britain and Emperor William I of Germany.

Early life
Princess Feodora was born on 12 May 1879 as the only child of Bernhard, Hereditary Prince of Saxe-Meiningen, and his wife Princess Charlotte of Prussia, herself the eldest daughter of German Crown Prince Frederick William and Crown Princess Victoria. The new baby was the first grandchild of the Crown Prince and Princess, and through her mother was also the first great-grandchild of the British Queen Victoria.Charlotte, who loved to socialize, had hated being pregnant, believing that it limited her activities. Preferring to return to enjoying social life in Berlin, she declared after Feodora's birth that she would have no further children, dismaying her mother, Crown Princess Victoria. It was unusual to be an only child in European royal families, and Feodora likely endured a lonely childhood. Charlotte loved to travel, and often left her daughter with Vicky at Friedrichshof, whom she viewed as the source of a convenient nursery. The Crown Princess, for her part, loved having the chance to spend time with her eldest granddaughter. Describing Feodora on one visit, she wrote that "she is really a good little child, & far easier to manage than her Mama".Victoria, who became German empress in 1888, perceived a deficit in Feodora's upbringing and gradually became concerned about the girl's physical appearance and mental development, describing the thirteen-year-old as possessing "sharp pinched features" and an unusually short stature. Feodora also cared little for her studies, preferring instead to discuss fashion. Her grandmother, who placed a high value on education, blamed insufficient parental guidance for the girl's lack of studiousness, commenting that the "atmosphere of her home is not the best for a child of her age... With Charlotte for an example, what else can one expect... Her parents are rarely ever at home or together... She hardly knows what home life is!"Queen Victoria was fond of her eldest great-grandchild. In June 1887, the young Feodora and her parents attended the queen's  Golden Jubilee in London. While her parents stayed at Buckingham Palace, Feodora stayed with her young cousin Princess Alice of Battenberg at the home of the Dowager Duchess of Buccleuch at Whitehall, allowing the girls to watch the royal procession as it made its way to Westminster Abbey. Queen Victoria described her as "sweet little Feo, who is so good and I think grown quite pretty. We were delighted to have her and I think the dear child has enjoyed herself."

Marriage
As Feodora grew older, her marriage began to be a consideration. The exiled Prince Peter Karađorđević, thirty-six years older than Feodora, proposed himself as a suitor, though this was likely a bid to gain support for succeeding to the Serbian throne. Charlotte declared that "for such a throne Feodora is far too good". Her mother's maternal first cousin Alfred, Hereditary Prince of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, the only son of Charlotte's friend (and Feodora's maternal grandaunt) the Duchess of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, was also considered.Several months after returning from Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee celebrations in June 1897, Feodora became engaged to Prince Heinrich XXX Reuss of Köstritz (1864-1939), with the betrothal announced in early October. Born in Castle Neuhoff, he was the youngest son of Prince Heinrich IX Reuss of Köstritz (1827-1898) and Baroness Anne Marie Wilhelmine Helene of Zedlitz und Leipe (1829-1907). Henry's father died in early 1898, forcing a temporary postponement of the marriage. Rumours that the marriage had been cancelled proved to be untrue, and they married at Breslau on 24 September 1898 in  a Lutheran ceremony. Princess Feodora was the only great-grandchild of Queen Victoria and only grandchild of German Empress Victoria to be married in their lifetimes; she married in 1898 and both the Queen and the German Empress died in 1901.
Prince Henry was a captain in the Brunswick Infantry Regiment No. 92, though not particularly wealthy or high-ranked. Feodora's grandmother Empress Victoria was surprised at the choice of groom, particularly his lack of position, but observed that the bride at least seemed happy. Of the fifteen-year age gap, Victoria commented, "I am very glad he is older than she is, and if he is wise and steady and firm, he may do her a vast deal of good, and it may turn out very well, but she has had a strange example in her mother, and is a strange little creature." The historian John Van der Kiste writes that Feodora was "evidently besotted" with her new husband, and she likely also sought marriage as an escape from her "irksome home life".Once returned from their honeymoon, Henry spent much of his time on duty with his regiment, while Feodora joined a reading group and attended the opera and theatre in Berlin. Feodora also often accompanied her husband during his military assignments, travelling throughout Germany.

Last years
Feodora suffered most of her adult life from ill health, describing it as "the old story" of her life. Like her mother and maternal grandmother, and maternal great grandmother Feodora's illnesses included dizziness, insomnia, nausea, various pains, paralysis, constipation, and diarrhoea. She underwent several operations to treat her illnesses and alleviate her infertility, each without success.Feodora visited Windsor Castle in 1900, which would be the last time she saw her great-grandmother before Queen Victoria's death the following year. Henry attended her funeral, but ill health kept Feodora from attending. Feodora blamed malaria for her condition, though Charlotte told family members that Henry had given his wife a venereal disease, an allegation Feodora furiously denied. Charlotte asked her daughter to get tested by Charlotte's personal physician; when Feodora refused, it confirmed to Charlotte that her beliefs were correct. In reaction, Feodora refused to enter her mother's house and complained to family members of Charlotte's "incredible" actions.In 1903, the couple moved to Flensburg upon Henry being transferred, where they lived in a small house. Feodora found that the region's mild climate had a positive impact on her health. To further improve it and increase the probability of becoming pregnant, she took pills of arsenic and thorium. Her poor health recurred, however, and she again began suffering from toothache and migraines. In October 1904, a serious illness was blamed on influenza. Her further efforts to conceive included numerous visits to private clinics through the years, which often led to painful surgeries and procedures.

Two World Wars
With the outbreak of World War I, Henry was dispatched to the Western Front, while his wife opened a small hospital to treat wounded soldiers. By this stage, relations between him and his wife had deteriorated; Henry believed Feodora enjoyed complaining about being sick and seeing doctors. He wrote that her illness "consists mainly in complete lack of energy and mental apathy", and complained that "she grossly exaggerates her illnesses and causes me and others quite unnecessary anxiety". Henry died in 1939.
After the war concluded with Germany's defeat, Feodora's father's rule over the Duchy of Saxe-Meiningen was ended. Her post-war life is mostly unknown, and records of her subsequent medical history have mainly been lost. She spent her final years at the Sanatorium Buchwald-Hohenwiese, near Hirschberg, Silesia, in what is now southwestern Poland. She died by suicide on 26 August 1945, dying shortly after World War II ended. In describing Feodora's life, the historian John Van der Kiste writes that "the princess who had so desperately wanted children of her own had instead continued to battle with constant physical ailments, insomnia and severe depression, and endured many years of ill-health similar to that of her mother".

Medical analysis
In the 1990s, the historian John Röhl and his colleagues Martin Warren and David Hunt found Feodora's grave in Poland, exhuming the body for DNA analysis in the belief that it would reveal signs of the genetic disease porphyria however, it was proved inconclusive.

Ancestry
Passage 5:
Princess Charlotte of Saxe-Meiningen
Princess Charlotte of Saxe-Meiningen (German: Marie Charlotte Amalie Ernestine Wilhelmine Philippine, Prinzessin von Sachsen-Meiningen) (11 September 1751, Frankfurt am Main, Free Imperial City of Frankfurt, Holy Roman Empire – 25 April 1827, Genoa, Kingdom of Sardinia) was a member of the House of Saxe-Meiningen and a Princess of Saxe-Meiningen by birth and a member of the House of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg and Duchess consort of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg through her marriage to Ernest II, Duke of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg.

Early life and family
Princess Charlotte was born on 
11 September 1751. She was the eldest child and daughter of Anton Ulrich, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen and his second wife, Landgravine Charlotte Amalie of Hesse-Philippsthal. Charlotte was an elder sister of Charles William, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen and George I, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen.

Marriage
Charlotte married Ernest, Hereditary Prince of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg (later Duke of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg), son of Frederick III, Duke of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg and his wife Luise Dorothea of Saxe-Meiningen, on 21 March 1769 in Meiningen. Charlotte and Ernest had four children:

Ernest, Hereditary Prince of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg (b. Gotha, 27 February 1770 – d. Gotha, 3 December 1779).
Augustus, Duke of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg (b. Gotha, 23 November 1772 – d. Gotha, 27 May 1822)
Frederick IV, Duke of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg (b. Gotha, 28 November 1774 – d. Gotha, 11 February 1825).
Prince Ludwig of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg (b. Gotha, 21 October 1777 – d. Gotha, 26 October 1777).Charlotte's husband, Ernest, was regarded as an enlightened monarch and a great patron of art and science, who led his country into a cultural flowering. He was assisted in his cultural undertakings by his wife, Charlotte.
Like her husband, Charlotte was a patron of astronomy. She counted relief panels for the court astronomer Franz Xaver von Zach and she also participated in observations. Charlotte also participated in the First European Astronomy Congress in 1798 at the Seeberg Observatory and independently corresponded with the leading astronomers of her time.

Later life
After her husband's death in 1804, there were difficulties with Charlotte's son, Augustus, upon his succession. Charlotte left Gotha with Zach and spent some time in Eisenberg. Later she traveled with Zach throughout southern Europe and lived several years in Marseilles, and later in Genoa, where she died in 1827.

Ancestry
Passage 6:
Bernhard, Prince of Saxe-Meiningen
Bernhard, Prince of Saxe-Meiningen (German: Bernhard, Prinz von Sachsen-Meiningen; 30 June 1901 – 4 October 1984) was the head of the House of Saxe-Meiningen from 1946 until his death.

Prince of Saxe-Meiningen
Bernhard was born in Köln the third son of Prince Frederick Johann of Saxe-Meiningen and Countess Adelaide of Lippe-Biesterfeld. His father was the second son of Georg II, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen and his mother a daughter of Count Ernst of Lippe-Biesterfeld.
After the death of his older brother Prince Georg in 1946 his nephew Prince Frederick Alfred renounced his succession rights and so Bernhard succeeded to the headship of the house of Saxe-Meiningen and the nominal title of Duke of Saxe-Meiningen (as Bernhard IV).
As his first marriage was morganatic his second son Prince Frederick Konrad succeeded him as head of the ducal house following his death in Bad Krozingen.
Bernhard and his first wife were declared guilty of a Nazi conspiracy against Austria in 1933; he was sentenced to six weeks in prison, while she was placed under house arrest. After intervention of the German envoy, he was released from prison, upon which they escaped to Italy. Three weeks later he was arrested while trying to return to his castle of Pitzelstaetten

Family
Bernhard was married morganatically to Margot Grössler (1911–1998), a merchant's daughter from Breslau (today: Wrocław) in Eichenhof im Riesengebirge on 25 April 1931. This union ended in divorce on 10 June 1947. They had two children, both of whom had no succession rights:

Princess Feodora of Saxe-Meiningen (27 April 1932) she married Burkhard Kippenberg on 6 April 1967. They have one son:
Walter Johannes Kippenberg (27 January 1968)
Prince Frederick Ernest of Saxe-Meiningen  (21 January 1935 – 13 July 2004) he married Ehrengard von Massow on 3 March 1962. He remarried Princess Beatrice of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha on 12 June 1977. They have two children and one grandson:
Princess Marie Alexandra of Saxe-Meiningen (5 July 1978) married Benno Beat Christian Wiedmer on 27 July 2004.
Prince Friedrich Constantin of Saxe-Meiningen (3 June 1980) He has one son with Sophia Lupus:
Michael of Saxe-Meiningen (July 2015)Bernhard married secondly in Ziegenberg über Bad Nauheim on 11 August 1948 to Baroness Vera Schäffer von Bernstein (1914–1994). They had three children, whose son Konrad with full rights to the succession to the house of Saxe-Meiningen:

Princess Eleonore Adelaide of Saxe-Meiningen (9 November 1950) she married Peter Eric Rosden on 22 October 1982.
Prince Frederick Konrad of Saxe-Meiningen (14 April 1952)
Princess Almut of Saxe-Meiningen (25 September 1959) she married Eberhard von Braunschweig on 16 October 1993. They have two children:
Marie Cecilie von Braunschweig (4 August 1994)
Julius-Alexander von Braunschweig (20 October 1996)

Ancestry
Passage 7:
Princess Marie Elisabeth of Saxe-Meiningen
Princess Marie Elisabeth of Saxe-Meiningen (23 September 1853 – 22 February 1923) was the only daughter of Georg II, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen, by his first wife, Princess Charlotte of Prussia. She was notable as a musician and composer. One of her most famous works is Romanze in F major for clarinet and piano.

Early life
Princess Marie Elisabeth was born on 23 September 1853 in Potsdam. She was the third child and only daughter of Georg, Hereditary Prince of Saxe-Meiningen, by his first wife, Princess Charlotte of Prussia, and had one surviving brother, Hereditary Prince Bernhard. Her parents' marriage was very happy, as it was the rare instance of a love match rather than a marriage of state. In 1855, tragedy struck with the death of their younger infant brother; Charlotte died three months later of complications after childbirth of a baby son, two months earlier. This youngest brother died, one day old. Georg was inconsolable, but remarried several years later to Princess Feodora of Hohenlohe-Langenburg in order to provide a mother for his remaining young children. Marie Elisabeth's father succeeded as Duke Georg II of Saxe-Meiningen in 1866. His second marriage was unhappy; it produced three younger brothers (Ernst, Friedrich, and Viktor) for Marie Elisabeth before Feodora's death in 1872.Marie Elisabeth's father participated in the Franco-Prussian War, where he fought in nearly every battle. After the war, Georg II devoted himself to the stage, and his court became famous for its brilliance and culture. A year after Feodora's death, Georg II married for a third and last time to Ellen Franz, a stage actress. A happy marriage, together they founded the Meiningen Ensemble, which became the centre for dramatic art in Germany.

Music
As her father was a great patron of the stage and the founder of a national theater, Marie Elisabeth was raised in this environment, consequently becoming artistic and a great lover of music like her parents. She received a thorough education under the tutelage of Theodor Kirchner, a talented pianist. Her father was a great patron of German composer and pianist Johannes Brahms, who worked as a music teacher in Meiningen for various pupils, including Marie Elisabeth, whom he gave piano lessons to. In addition to Brahms, Marie Elisabeth was in close contact with other famous musicians, such as Richard Strauss, Franz Mannstädt, and Hans von Bülow.
Marie Elisabeth was a student of the Conservatorium; she and Prince Alexander of Hesse, another royal pupil of Brahms, celebrated the birthday of musician Joachim Raff in Frankfurt in 1886. There, they interpreted Brahm's Sonata (Op. 78) for pianoforte and violin in a special feature for the ceremony. At the 1878 wedding of her elder brother Bernhard to Princess Charlotte of Prussia, eldest daughter of German Crown Prince Frederick William, Marie Elisabeth composed a piece of music specially meant for the occasion entitled torch dance.
As of 1913, Marie Elisabeth was the author of Einzugsmarsch for orchestra, Fackeltanz for piano as well as several other piano compositions. She also wrote a "pretty" Cradle Song for violin and piano, and, in 1892, she produced a Romanze in F major for clarinet and piano which had been influenced by Brahms' teachings. At her residence in Berchtesgaden, Marie Elisabeth received a regular circle of artists and encouraged talented singers by financing their education.
Marie Elisabeth died on 22 February 1923 in Obersendling. She never married, and is buried in the cemetery park in Meiningen.

Ancestry
Passage 8:
Princess Louise Eleonore of Hohenlohe-Langenburg
Princess Louise Eleonore of Hohenlohe-Langenburg (11 August 1763, in Langenburg – 30 April 1837, in Meiningen) was a German regent.  She was duchess of Saxe-Meiningen by marriage to George I, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen, and Regent of Saxe-Meiningen during the minority of her son from 1803 to 1821.

Life
Louise Eleonore was a daughter of Prince Christian Albert Louis of Hohenlohe-Langenburg (1726-1789) and his wife Princess Caroline of Stolberg-Gedern (1732–1796).
On 27 November 1782, in Langenburg, she married George I, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen.

Regency
When her husband died on 24 December 1803, she took over as regent of the duchy for their son Bernhard II. She ruled with energy, courage, and good sense during the Napoleonic Wars, which for the next decade ravaged the Saxon states.The duchy was forced to join the Confederation of the Rhine during these Wars and provide it with troops; afterwards the duchy was struck with famine, which Luise sought to prevent by importing wheat.  French armies, and later those of Russia, marched back and forth across the country, but Luise refused to flee; she stayed with her infant son and two daughters inside their castle.She used every strategy to preserve the autonomy of her regency, so that when she joined the Allies in 1813, she had saved the duchy for her son. He became the ruling Duke of Meiningen eight years later.By adjustments in the duchy's administration she ensured the duchy was better managed and in 1821 opened the Gymnasium Bernhardinum in Meiningen (already begun by her husband). 
Her children were carefully educated, with a grand tour to Italy under their tutor Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi.  After her son came of age, Luise retired as regent and went on several foreign trips, including one to England to visit her daughter Adelaide.

Issue
Adelheid  (later Adelaide, 13 August 1792 – 2 December 1849), with whom Luise had a very close relationship; in 1818 she married King William IV of the United Kingdom while Luise was regent and special taxes needed to be instituted in the duchy to raise funds for her enormous dowry (6,000 florins per year).
Ida (25 June 1794 – 4 April 1852), married Prince Bernhard of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach.
Stillborn daughter (16 October 1796).
Bernhard II, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen, (17 December 1800 – 3 December 1882), married Princess Marie Frederica of Hesse-Kassel (1804–1888).

Ancestry
Passage 9:
Friedrich Wilhelm, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen
Friedrich Wilhelm, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen (16 February 1679 in Ichtershausen – 10 March 1746 in Meiningen), was a duke of Saxe-Meiningen.

Life
He was the fifth son of Bernhard I, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen and his first wife, Marie Hedwig of Hesse-Darmstadt.
When his father died in 1706, according to his will, he inherited the duchy of Saxe-Meiningen with his older full-brother, Ernst Ludwig I, and his younger half-brother, Anton Ulrich.
But, shortly after, Ernst Ludwig signed a contract between himself and his brothers, and they were compelled to leave full control of the duchy in his hands.
When Ernst Ludwig died (1724), Friedrich Wilhelm and Anton Ulrich took again the government of the duchy as guardians of his nephews until 1733.
After the death of his nephew, Karl Frederick (1743), he inherited the duchy of Saxe-Meiningen.
Friedrich Wilhelm never married and died after only three years of reigning. He was succeeded by his younger half-brother, Anton Ulrich.

Ancestors
Passage 10:
Bernhard III, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen
Bernhard III (German: Bernhard Friedrich Wilhelm Albrecht Georg; 1 April 1851 – 16 January 1928), was the last reigning duke of Saxe-Meiningen.

Biography
Bernhard was born on 1 April 1851 at Meiningen in what was then the German Confederation,
as the eldest son of Georg II, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen and his first wife Princess Charlotte of Prussia.Bernhard had one full sister, Princess Marie Elisabeth, and several half-brothers by his father's second marriage. 
From 1860 Bernhard was schooled by a Prof. Rossmann before he went to study at Heidelberg University in 1869. For the war against France he interrupted his studies and served as Ordonnanz-Offizier. After the war ended he resumed his studies at Leipzig. From 1873 he again served in the military and rose into the highest echelons: By 1905 he was Generaloberst and inspector general of the 2nd Army Inspection (Central Germany). In 1909, he became Generaloberst im Range eines Generalfeldmarschalls and retired from active service in 1912.

He married in Berlin on 18 February 1878 Princess Charlotte of Prussia, his second cousin, daughter of Frederick III, German Emperor and granddaughter of the Queen Victoria. They had one daughter: Princess Feodora of Saxe-Meiningen (b. Potsdam, 12 May 1879 - d. Schloß Neuhoff, 26 August 1945), married on 24 September 1898 to Heinrich XXX of Reuss-Köstritz.

Reign
Bernhard assumed the Duchy of Saxe-Meiningen after the death of his father in 1914. With the start of World War I Bernhard hoped to be assigned command over an army but was disappointed. In reaction he also withdrew from his role in the Duchy's government.After Germany lost the war, the German revolution forced Bernhard to abdicate as duke on 10 November 1918. Like all the German princes he lost his title and state. He spent the rest of his life in his former country as a private citizen.Bernhard died on 16 January 1928 in Meiningen. He is buried next to his wife in the park at Altenstein.

Interests
Despite his military career he also took a great interest in the arts. He was active as a composer, poet and translator. He was known in particular as an expert on Modern Greek and was renowned for translating German literature into Greek. For his historical studies, for which he repeatedly travelled to Greece and Asia Minor, the University of Breslau awarded him an honorary doctorate.

Honours
Ernestine duchies: Grand Cross of the Saxe-Ernestine House Order, 1869; Joint Grand Master, 25 June 1914
 Kingdom of Prussia:Iron Cross (1870), 2nd Class
Grand Commander's Cross of the Royal House Order of Hohenzollern, 2 April 1877
Knight of the Order of the Black Eagle, 23 April 1877; with Collar, 1878
 Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach: Grand Cross of the Order of the White Falcon, 1870
 Grand Duchy of Hesse: Grand Cross of the Grand Ducal Hessian Order of Ludwig, 18 February 1878
 Belgium: Grand Cordon of the Order of Leopold (military division), 25 February 1878
 Oldenburg: Grand Cross of the House and Merit Order of Duke Peter Friedrich Ludwig, with Crown in Gold, 18 February 1878
 Baden:Knight of the House Order of Fidelity, 1881
Knight of the Order of Berthold the First, 1881
 Kingdom of Saxony: Knight of the Order of the Rue Crown, 1885
  Austria-Hungary: Grand Cross of the Royal Hungarian Order of St. Stephen, 1887
 United Kingdom: Honorary Knight Grand Cross of the Most Honourable Order of the Bath (civil division), 21 June 1887
 Empire of Japan: Grand Cordon of the Supreme Order of the Chrysanthemum, 5 February 1896
 Russian Empire: Knight of the Imperial Order of St. Alexander Nevsky, 1896

Ancestry