Passage 1:
Everybody's Magazine
Everybody's Magazine was an American magazine published from 1899 to 1929. The magazine was headquartered in New York City.

History and profile
The magazine was founded by Philadelphia merchant John Wanamaker in 1899, though he had little role in its actual operations. Initially, the magazine published a combination of non-fiction articles and new fiction stories.  By 1926, the magazine had become a pulp fiction magazine and in 1929 it merged with Romance magazine.
In 1903, it had a circulation of 150,000, and Wanamaker sold the magazine for $75,000 to a group headed by Erman Jesse Ridgway.  A series of muckraking articles called "Frenzied Finance" in 1904 boosted circulation to well over 500,000, and it stayed above the half million mark for many years.  During America's involvement in World War I, circulation declined below 300,000.  By the late 1920s, it had declined to about 50,000.Beginning in 1915, the magazine began referring to itself simply as Everybody's. Writers who appeared in it include Jack London, Talbot Mundy, Victor Rousseau, O. Henry, A. A. Milne (Milne's novel The Red House Mystery was serialised in the magazine from August to December 1921 as The Red House Murder) Hugh Pendexter, Eleanor Hoyt Brainerd, Raoul Whitfield and Dornford Yates.
The last issue of Everybody's Magazine was published in March 1929. In 1931, publisher Alfred A. Cohen purchased Everybody's Magazine from the Butterick Publishing Company and attempted to revive it with F. Orlin Tremaine as editor. No known issues were produced and the magazine was soon declared discontinued.

Gallery
Passage 2:
Northern Men's League for Women's Suffrage
The Northern Men's Federation for Women's Suffrage was an organisation which was active in Scotland during the later part of the campaign for women's suffrage.

Formation
In 1907, after the imprisonment of his wife, Maggie Moffat for suffrage activity, Graham Moffat formed the Glasgow Men's League for Women's Suffrage. It was intended to offer support and solidarity for the husbands and brothers of women involved in the campaign, as well as male sympathisers.Many of the members were politically active and powerful men who wanted to use their influence in the campaign.In July 1913, organised by Maud Arncliffe Sennett, a large delegation of  Scottish men travelled to London for an audience with the prime minister, H. H. Asquith, to discuss extending the franchise to women. The request for a meeting was refused. A direct result of this failure to meet with them was that they formed the new campaigning organisation. The artist John Wilson McLaren wrote a verse about the trip:

We've come from the North, and the heather's on fire,
To fight for the women–our only desire;
At last we've been roused thro' the treachery shown
By knaves at Westminster–the knaves we disown!'The inaugural meeting was held in Glasgow on 11 September 1913. The founder, president, and main organiser of the July deputation was Maud Arncliffe Sennett. She had discussed the possibility of a men's campaigning organisation on the train to the funeral of Emily Davison, which she attended on behalf of the Actresses' Franchise League. The honorary secretary of the Edinburgh branch was Nannie Brown.Branches were formed in Midlothian and Berwick upon Tweed.

Activities
The league had no party political loyalties, and supported all of the different suffrage groups, whether militant or constitutional. They sent petitions and resolutions to those in power, and corresponded with other organisations to rally support.
They held a meeting in Bridgeton in November 1913, which was addressed by Maud Arncliffe Sennet, Henry Harben, JP, Bailie Alston and Helen Crawfurd, who "welcomed the NMF as a new order of chivalry: it came to fight for the oppressed and sweated women worker". In the same month they also met in the Synod Hall, Edinburgh, and were addressed by John Cockburn, Mrs Cavendish Bentinck, and Maud Arncliffe Sennett.  On 14 February 1914, the Northern Men's Federation for Women's Suffrage was to hold a mass meeting in Memorial Hall, London, and the following day a Trafalgar Square demonstration. The 'War Song" titled  'Justice For Ever'  by J. Wilson McLaren was to be sung in full at these events, to the air 'The Macgregors' Gathering' , and the words printed (the day before the first event) in the Women's Freedom League newspaper The Vote:We've come from the North, and the heather's on fire,
To fight for the women – our only desire;
At last we've been roused thro' the treachery shown
By knaves at Westminster–the knaves we disown!
Then rally, rally, rally, Englishmen!
With the Scots by your side, help the Cause that is just -
The mothers who bore us, we cannot but trust -
They're voteless, voteless, voteless!
Voteless, voteless, voteless!
Then prove yourselves heroes! Oppressors? No, never!
The Women shall triumph! It's Justice for ever!
The torture of martyrs has stirred the whole nation -
Wives, sisters and mothers  - vile degradation!

It's shameful, shameful, shameful, Englishmen!
Shameful, shameful, shameful!
Then join the fray - turn the Government out
That still dares the Mandate of voters to flout:
For Freedom our forefathers fought long ago,
And the sons from auld Scotland will strike, too, a blow!
Then help us, help us, Englishmen!
The "Forcible Feeding" and "Cat-and-Mouse Bill,"
We're now more determined than ever to kill;
Then rally, rally, rally!
Rally, rally, rally!
"Votes for Women" our cry. Cease fighting? No, never!

Till victory is won, and - Justice for ever!Both Nannie Brown and Maud Arncliffe Sennett visited the City of Edinburgh Council and were welcomed and given a lunch with the Lord Provost and councillors (the week before) and were organising the deputation to London. Councillors Murray and Crawford were to take part, and a large and supportive rally on the Mound, Edinburgh took place.In April 1914, the league took part in a larger demonstration at Cupar, where H. H. Asquith was standing in a ministerial by-election. They announced their intention of opposing him at the next general election.The league continued their campaigning work during the war years, which included an open-air meeting at The Meadows, Edinburgh in May 1915, a demonstration in July 1915, addressed by Maud Arncliffe Sennett, and a meeting in April 1916. Their activities continued until 1919.

Notable members and speakers
Cunninghame Graham
William Graham
Charles Mabon
Maud Arncliffe Sennett
Nannie Brown
J Wilson McLaren

See also
Men's League for Women's Suffrage (United Kingdom)
Women's suffrage in the United Kingdom
Passage 3:
Budapest Business Journal
The Budapest Business Journal or BBJ is a biweekly business magazine published in Hungary. It is the largest, oldest and a leading publication in its category in the country.

History and profile
The BBJ was launched in November 1992 as a weekly. The magazine, based in Budapest, was converted into biweekly later. It was founded by a US-owned company headed by Stephen A. O'Connor, an American media entrepreneur. Mike Stone was also its founder.The publisher is Absolut Media Kft. It was originally published by  New World Publishing  which also published the Warsaw Business Journal in Poland and the Prague Business Journal in Czechoslovakia (and later the Czech Republic) until January 2004.As its title implies, the BBJ exclusively focuses on business news and related analysis, targeting business professionals. In addition, it provides detailed industry and company information. The magazine publishes rankings of Hungarian companies each year in a separate publication called The Book of Lists.The BBJ was one of the independent publications and provided investigative reports in the late 1990s. In 2002 the BBJ had a circulation of 8,700 copies.The BBJ has a website which is one of the leading business information websites in the country. As of 15 May 2013 the Alexa rank of the website was 858437.

See also
List of magazines in Hungary
Passage 4:
Lydia Becker
Lydia Ernestine Becker (24 February 1827 – 18 July 1890) was a leader in the early British suffrage movement, as well as an amateur scientist with interests in biology and astronomy. She established Manchester as a centre for the suffrage movement and with Richard Pankhurst she arranged for the first woman to vote in a British election and a court case was unsuccessfully brought to exploit the precedent. Becker is also remembered for founding and publishing the Women's Suffrage Journal between 1870 and 1890.

Biography
Born in Cooper Street in the Deansgate area of Manchester, the oldest daughter of Hannibal Becker, whose father, Ernst Becker had emigrated from Ohrdruf in Thuringia. Becker was educated at home, like many girls at the time. Intellectually curious, she studied botany and astronomy from the 1850s onwards, winning a gold medal for an 1862 scholarly paper on horticulture. An uncle, rather than her parents, encouraged this interest. Five years later, she founded the Ladies' Literary Society in Manchester.
She began a correspondence with Charles Darwin and soon afterwards convinced him to send a paper to the society. In the course of their correspondence, Becker sent a number of plant samples to Darwin from the fields surrounding Manchester. She also forwarded Darwin a copy of her "little book", Botany for Novices (1864). Becker is one of a number of 19th-century women who contributed, often routinely, to Darwin's scientific work. Her correspondence and work alike suggest that Becker had a particular interest in bisexual and hermaphroditic plants which, perhaps, offered her powerful 'natural' evidence of radical, alternative sexual and social order.She was also recognised for her own scientific contributions, being awarded a national prize in the 1860s for a collection of dried plants prepared using a method that she had devised so that they retained their original colours. She gave a botanical paper to the Biology Section (D) at the 1868 meeting of the British Association about the effect of fungal infection on sexual development in a plant species. Botany remained important to her, but her work for women's suffrage took over the central role in her life. Her involvement in promoting and encouraging scientific education for girls and women brought these two aspects together.

Role in women's suffrage
In autumn 1866 Becker attended the annual meeting of the National Association for the Advancement of Social Science, where she was excited by a paper from Barbara Bodichon entitled "Reasons for the Enfranchisement of Women". She dedicated herself to organising around the issue, and in January 1867 convened the first meeting of the Manchester Women's Suffrage Committee, one of the first organisations of its kind in England. She got to know there Dr. Richard Pankhurst, known as 'the red Doctor' whom Becker described as 'a very clever little man with some extraordinary sentiments about life in general and women in particular'. He married Emmeline in 1879.Several months later, a widowed shop owner, Lilly Maxwell, mistakenly appeared on the register of voters in Manchester. She was not the first but she was a good opportunity for publicity. Becker visited Maxwell and escorted her to the polling station. The returning officer found Maxwell's name on the list and allowed her to vote. Becker immediately began encouraging other women heads of households in the region to petition for their names to appear on the rolls. Their claims were presented in court by Sir John Coleridge and Richard Pankhurst in Chorlton v. Lings, but the case was dismissed.On 14 April 1868, the first public meeting of the National Society for Women's Suffrage was held in the Free Trade Hall in Manchester. The three main speakers were Agnes Pochin, Anne Robinson and Becker. The meeting was presided over by Priscilla Bright McLaren. Becker moved the resolution that women should be granted voting rights on the same terms as men.
Becker subsequently commenced a lecture tour of northern cities on behalf of the society. In June 1869, Becker and fellow campaigners were successful in securing the vote for women in municipal elections. Having campaigned for the inclusion of women on school boards, in 1870 she was one of four women elected to the Manchester School Board on which she served until her death. In the same year Becker and her friend Jessie Boucherett founded the Women's Suffrage Journal and soon afterward began organising speaking tours of women – a rarity in Britain at the time. At an 1874 speaking event in Manchester organised by Becker, fifteen-year-old Emmeline Pankhurst experienced her first public gathering in the name of women's suffrage. On 24 March 1877 Lydia appeared at a public meeting alongside J.W White, Henry Birchenough, Alice Cliff Scatcherd (subsequently one of the co-founders of the Women's Franchise League) and other early suffragists to discuss women's access to the vote in Macclesfield.The Journal was the most popular publication relating to women's suffrage in 19th-century Britain. Roger Fulford, in his study of the movement Votes for Women: The Story of a Struggle, writes: "The history of the decades from 1860 to 1890 – so far as women's suffrage is concerned – is the history of Miss Becker." The Journal published speeches from around the country, both within and outside of Parliament. Becker published her correspondence with her supporters and her opponents, notably in 1870, when she chastised the MP for Caernarvonshire after he voted against a proposal offering women the vote.In 1880, Becker and co-workers campaigned in the Isle of Man for the right of women to vote in the House of Keys elections. Unexpectedly, they were successful and they secured for women voting rights in the Isle of Man for the first time in the elections of March 1881. Becker became the chair of the Central Committee of the National Society for Women's Suffrage. This organisation had been formed in 1871 to lobby parliament. Other committee members included Helen Blackburn, Millicent Fawcett, Jessie Boucherett, Eva McLaren, Margaret Bright Lucas, Priscilla Bright McLaren and Frances Power Cobbe.Becker differed from many early feminists in her disputation of essentialised femininity. Arguing there was no natural difference between the intellect of men and women, Becker was a vocal advocate of a non-gendered education system in Britain. She also differed with many suffrage activists in arguing more strenuously for the voting rights of unmarried women. Women connected to husbands and stable sources of income, Becker believed, were less desperately in need of the vote than widows and single women. This attitude made her the target of frequent ridicule in newspaper commentary and editorial cartoons.

Death and legacy
In 1890 Becker visited the spa town of Aix-les-Bains, where she fell ill and died of diphtheria, aged 63.Rather than continue publishing in her absence, the staff of the Women's Suffrage Journal decided to cease production.

Memorials
A book collection by women, with books from Helen Blackburn's collection, her friends and from second hand sources, was placed in two bookcases decorated with paintings of Becker and Caroline Ashurst Biggs, who had been chairs of the Central Committee of the National Society for Women's Suffrage before Blackburn. These bookcases were given to Girton College and are extant.Becker's name is listed on the south face of the Reformers Memorial in Kensal Green Cemetery in London. Her name is also listed on her father's gravestone (Hannibal Becker) in the churchyard of the Parish Church of St James, Altham in Lancashire. A plaque commemorating her life is situated adjacent to the Moorfield Colliery Memorial on Burnley Road, Altham, (A678) at the junction with Moorfield Way.
Becker's name and image, alongside those of 58 other women's suffrage supporters, are etched on the plinth of the statue of Millicent Fawcett in Parliament Square, London.In Paris, France, a street is named after her, the allée Lydia-Becker (Lydia Becker Lane), near Montmartre, close to the rue Eva-Kotchever.  In Chadderton, Oldham, United Kingdom,  a street is named after her, Lydia Becker Way.

Works
Botany for Novices (1864)
"Female Suffrage" in The Contemporary Review (1867)
"Is there any Specific Distinction between Male and Female Intellect?" in Englishwoman's Review of Social and Industrial Questions (1868)
"On the Study of Science by Women" in The Contemporary Review (1869)
"The Political Disabilities of Women" in The Westminster Review (1872)

Archives
The archives of Lydia Becker are held at the Women's Library at the Library of the London School of Economics.

Lydia Becker Institute of Immunology and Inflammation
In 2018 the Lydia Becker Institute of Immunology and Inflammation  was launched at The University of Manchester.
The institute is home to internationally renowned immunology and inflammation expertise in a vast array of basic and applied disciplines. 
The institute is named after Lydia Becker because she was a celebrated natural scientist who conversed with Charles Darwin and because she strongly believed that women were intellectually equal to men and deserved the same opportunities.

Notes
Passage 5:
UPraw – UK Student Magazine
UPraw Magazine was a national UK student magazine distributed through various university-related sites, student unions and selected Blackwell bookstores from 2001 - 2002. The magazine was based in Bournemouth.The magazine was a full colour glossy publication and four issues were released.  The cover and interviews stars included the BBC Radio 1 Disc Jockeys 'Dream Team', the RnB act 'Artful Dodger' and acting legend Robert De Niro.
The magazine was a mix of student related current affairs and mostly humour based articles.  The magazine proved very popular in smaller cities but was less successful in bigger cities where local student publications were more dominant.  The magazine was also criticised in some quarters for not having enough of a political agenda and not advancing student issues.
The magazine was established by Suzanne Miller who had previously edited the magazine FastTimes.
The magazine was co-edited by Nimalan Nades (also known by his real name Nimalan Nadesalingam) who had previously edited a local student magazine in Lincoln, England and who had also been a published as a writer for FastTime.  Many of the UPraw writers were also Lincoln based and included James Copper who had co-edited a local student magazine with Nimalan Nades previously.  Another contributor was Jon Kirk who then went on to establish Chalk, a rock-climbing magazine.
Passage 6:
Mostar (magazine)
Mostar is a monthly magazine of culture and current affairs. It began publishing in March 2005. Its name originates from the Stari Most in Bosnia-Herzegovina.

Content of Magazine
File subjects
Awards
On January 1, 2010, Mostar has been awarded as "Magazine of the Year" by Writers Union of Turkey.
On April 12, 2012, Mostar has won the reward of "Magazine of the Year" from International Association of Islamic World Journalist and Authors (ULGAYAD)

Notes
External links
Official Site
Passage 7:
Women's Suffrage Journal
The Women's Suffrage Journal was a magazine founded by Lydia Becker and Jessie Boucherett in 1870. Initially titled the Manchester National Society for Women's Suffrage Journal within a year its title was changed reflecting Becker's desire to extend its influence beyond "Manchester's radical liberal elite". It carried news of events affecting all areas of women's lives, and particularly focused on features that demonstrated the breadth of support among the general population for women's suffrage in the United Kingdom. It also frequently published guidance on how to prepare a petition to be presented to the House of Commons.Publication ceased in 1890 following Becker's death. The final edition contained this note:

For twenty years and four months this Journal has received the impress of one hand and one mind, so that its long row of volumes forms one continuous work, and now when that careful hand is laid low and the energies of that far-seeing mind are carried beyond our mortal ken, it would seem the most fitting course to close these pages where Miss Becker left them.

See also
List of suffragists and suffragettes
List of women's rights activists
Timeline of women's suffrage
Women's suffrage
Passage 8:
Lip (magazine)
Lip, A Feminist Arts Journal, or just Lip, was an Australian interdisciplinary feminist art journal, published between 1976 and 1984. It was the first of its kind in Australia.The magazine was founded by Suzanne Spunner, who had been involved in the organising of the International Women's Film Festival in 1975.The magazine was self-published by a feminist collective during the era of the women's liberation movement, and its content included a very wide range of feminist positions and interdisciplinary art forms, in addition to work that connected the local scene to a more international network. The magazine was based in Carlton, Victoria.The Lip collective also organised art shows, curated critical essays, and additionally published the Earthworks Poster Collective, The Women’s Theatre Group and The Women’s Film Group.In 2013 Vivian Ziherl published an anthology of Lip articles.
Passage 9:
American Monthly
American Monthly magazine was the original official monthly magazine published by the National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution (NSDAR). The magazine was published between 1892 and 2001.

History and profile
The magazine was established in 1892 with the name The American Monthly. The headquarters of the magazine was in Washington DC. In 1913 it was renamed as Daughters of the American Revolution Magazine.Later titles were Daughters of the American Revolution Magazine, and The National Historical Magazine. In 2001, the NSDAR split the content into two magazines, a new periodical called American Spirit, containing "articles pertaining to American history, historic preservation, patriotism, genealogy and education", and Daughters of the American Revolution Newsletter, a newsletter covering members' concerns from national headquarters.Ellen Hardin Walworth, one of the original four founders of the DAR, was the initial editor of the magazine. She was the periodical's editor from the spring of 1892 until July 1894. Catharine Hitchcock Tilden Avery later served in that role.
Passage 10:
Everybody's Magazine
Everybody's Magazine was an American magazine published from 1899 to 1929. The magazine was headquartered in New York City.

History and profile
The magazine was founded by Philadelphia merchant John Wanamaker in 1899, though he had little role in its actual operations. Initially, the magazine published a combination of non-fiction articles and new fiction stories.  By 1926, the magazine had become a pulp fiction magazine and in 1929 it merged with Romance magazine.
In 1903, it had a circulation of 150,000, and Wanamaker sold the magazine for $75,000 to a group headed by Erman Jesse Ridgway.  A series of muckraking articles called "Frenzied Finance" in 1904 boosted circulation to well over 500,000, and it stayed above the half million mark for many years.  During America's involvement in World War I, circulation declined below 300,000.  By the late 1920s, it had declined to about 50,000.Beginning in 1915, the magazine began referring to itself simply as Everybody's. Writers who appeared in it include Jack London, Talbot Mundy, Victor Rousseau, O. Henry, A. A. Milne (Milne's novel The Red House Mystery was serialised in the magazine from August to December 1921 as The Red House Murder) Hugh Pendexter, Eleanor Hoyt Brainerd, Raoul Whitfield and Dornford Yates.
The last issue of Everybody's Magazine was published in March 1929. In 1931, publisher Alfred A. Cohen purchased Everybody's Magazine from the Butterick Publishing Company and attempted to revive it with F. Orlin Tremaine as editor. No known issues were produced and the magazine was soon declared discontinued.

Gallery