Passage 1:
Princess Augusta of Saxe-Meiningen
Princess Augusta of Saxe-Meiningen (6 August 1843 – 11 November 1919) was the daughter of Bernhard II, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen and his wife Princess Marie Frederica of Hesse-Kassel. She was the mother of Ernst II, Duke of Saxe-Altenburg.

Family and early life
Augusta was the only daughter of the Duke and Duchess of Saxe-Meiningen. Her only sibling was Georg, who would succeed their father in 1866. Georg was seventeen years older than she was.Augusta's paternal grandparents were Georg I, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen and Luise Eleonore of Hohenlohe-Langenburg. Her maternal grandparents were William II, Elector of Hesse and Princess Augusta of Prussia, daughter of Frederick William II of Prussia.
Like her brother, Augusta was born in Meiningen. Despite the large age difference, they seemed to have a good relationship. He was a great lover of theatre; in 1856, he wrote his parents stating how happy he was that Augusta was allowed to attend the theatre and how their mother was more tolerant than she had been when he was a child, when she had declared that no child under thirteen should be allowed in the theatre.

Marriage
On 15 October 1862, Augusta married Prince Moritz of Saxe-Altenburg in Meiningen. He was fourteen years older, and was a younger son of Georg, Duke of Saxe-Altenburg and Marie Luise of Mecklenburg-Schwerin. They had five children:

Honours
Ernestine duchies: Insignia of the Saxe-Ernestine House Order
 Kingdom of Bavaria: Dame of the Order of Theresa, in Diamonds
 Russian Empire: Grand Cross of St. Catherine

Ancestry
Passage 2:
Henri I, Duke of Nemours
== Biography ==
Henri of Savoy (French: Henri de Savoie) (2 November 1572 – 10 July 1632), called originally Marquis de Saint-Sorlin, was the son of Jacques of Savoy and Anna d'Este, the widow of François de Lorraine, Duke of Guise. He succeeded his brother Charles Emmanuel as Duke of Nemours.
In 1588 he took the marquisate of Saluzzo from the French for his cousin, the Duke of Savoy. The princes of Guise, his half-brothers, induced him to join the League, and in 1591 he was made governor of Dauphiné in the name of that faction. He made his submission to Henry IV in 1596. After quarrelling with the duke of Savoy he withdrew to Burgundy and joined the Spaniards in their war against Savoy. After peace had been proclaimed on November 14, 1616, he retired to the French court.After his death, he was succeeded by his eldest son, Louis; on the death of Louis in 1641 by his second son Charles Amadeus; and on Charles's death in 1651 by his third son Henri.  All three were the sons of his wife Anne de Lorraine (1600–1638), daughter of Charles de Lorraine, Duke of Aumale.
Passage 3:
Henri II, Duke of Nemours
Henri of Savoy (7 November 1625, Paris – 4 January 1659, Paris) was the seventh Duc de Nemours (1652–59), and was also Count of Geneva.
Henri, as the third son of Henri de Savoie, 4th Duc de Nemours, was not expected to succeed to the dukedom and entered the priesthood.  By 1651, he had become Archbishop of Reims.  When his brothers Louis and Charles both predeceased him without leaving sons, he was relieved of his vows and became Duc de Nemours in 1652.  He married Marie d'Orleans (daughter of Henri d'Orléans, Duke of Longueville and Louise de Bourbon) in 1657, but died two years later without children.  On his death, the title of Duke of Nemours reverted to the Crown.  He was succeeded as Count of Geneva by his niece, Marie Jeanne Baptiste de Savoie, Duchess of Savoy.
Passage 4:
Jacques, Duke of Nemours
Jacques de Savoie, duc de Nemours (12 October 1531 – 15 June 1585) was a French military commander, governor and Prince Étranger. Having inherited his titles at a young age, Nemours fought for king Henri II during the latter Italian Wars, seeing action at the siege of Metz and the stunning victories of Renty and Calais in 1554 and 1558. Already a commander of French infantry, he received promotion to commander of the light cavalry after the capture of Calais in 1558. A year prior he had accompanied François, Duke of Guise on his entry into Italy, as much for the purpose of campaigning as to escape the king's cousin Antoine of Navarre who was threatening to kill him for his extra-marital pursuit of Navarre's cousin.
In 1559 Henri II died during a joust, and was succeeded by his young son François II. The new administration, led by the Guise due to François' young age was plagued with religious and financial difficulties, that emboldened a conspiracy to form against it. Nemours played a key role in crushing the Conspiracy of Amboise, capturing several of the leaders, and infamously promising the baron de Castelnau that if he surrendered no harm would come to him, the baron shortly thereafter being executed despite the pleas of many nobles. 
The following year he involved himself in a conspiracy to spirit away the 10-year-old Anjou from court, so that he could be 'raised in Catholic environs'. The plot was uncovered, and facing arrest, Nemours fled from court. The case against him collapsed, however, as the only evidence was the word of the young prince. Around this time a case was also looming against him for his relationship indiscretions. Françoise de Rohan being distraught that he had given her a child without fulfilling his promise to marry her, the case would gestate for the next four years until the archbishop of Lyon ruled in his favour in 1565, allowing him to marry the widowed Anne d'Este the following year. 
Nemours fought during the first war of religion, fighting the baron des Adrets around Lyon and the Dauphiné. With the death of the Marshal Saint-André on the field of Dreux in December, he became the governor of the Lyonnais, an office he would hold for the next nine years before resigning it in favour of his lieutenant-general François de Mandelot.
Nemours remained close with the Guise, supporting them in their feud with the Montmorency over the assassination of the duke of Guise without notable results. Nemours was with the court during the Surprise of Meaux and successfully counselled the court to make a flight to Paris. While besieged in Paris the following month, he aided in breaking the ring the Protestants had set up around the city before Anne de Montmorency's victory at the battle of Saint Denis. With Montmorency's death on the field, the young prince, whom Nemours had once tried to lure away from court, Anjou, became lieutenant-general of the army. To support him in the practicalities of conducting the campaign Nemours was among those chosen as his advisers. During the third war of religion, Nemours was tasked with assisting Claude, Duke of Aumale, the late duke of Guise's brother in blocking an entry into France by a German mercenary force in favour of the Protestant army. Aumale and Nemours found themselves too consumed in bickering to effectively block the force, and it linked up with the main Protestant body.
By the 1570s Nemours moved away from active politics and military command. Having resigned his governorship, he devoted himself more fully to matters of the arts. Though he was suspected of involvement in the Ligues after 1576, the king was satisfied with his swearing that he did not desire the overturn of the Peace of Monsieur. In 1585, he died, and was succeeded as duke of Nemours by his son.

Early life and family
Nemours, born in 1531, was the son of Philippe, Duke of Nemours, the first holder of the title and Charlotte d'Orléans, and became Duke of Nemours on his father's death in 1533.As early as 1555 Nemours was courting Françoise de Rohan, and had given her the impression he was seeking marriage. Even now however, he was also showing interest in the duke of Guise's wife, causing much scandal at court. By 1556 Françoise had become pregnant, and tearfully pled with Nemours to go through with his promise of marrying her but he refused. The Guise, who wished to remain close with Nemours despite his indiscretions, promised him that he could marry Lucrecia d'Este instead. Upon the death of her husband Anne d'Este was left widowed. In 1565 she was ready to marry again, and married Nemours at St Maur-des-Fosses in May 1566. The king provided the majority of the dowry to secure the marriage. Nemours looked to the church to handle the situation with Françoise due to his promise to marry her. He was able to void this arrangement, to proceed with his planned marriage of Anne, much to the fury of the Rohan and Catherine de Medici. The daughter of Duke Ercole II of Ferrara and Renée of France, Anne brought with her to the marriage the county of Gisors, a title she would continue to hold until her own death in 1607.Together they had the following issue:
Charles Emmanuel (1567–1595)
Marguerite (1569–1572)
Henry I (1572–1632)
Emmanuel PhilibertBack in 1561 Nemours' scandalous behaviour regarding Françoise had been the subject of litigation as she attempted to sue Nemours into marrying her, having made her pregnant. Supporting her was her cousin Jeanne d'Albret, and Antoine of Navarre, though he withdrew his support that year. Back in 1557 he had sworn to kill Nemours and all his friends for the duke's behaviour. In 1566 the Archbishop of Lyon ruled against Françoise, and the court endorsed the ruling. Albret was furious, challenging the competence of all the members of the council that she could to rule on the case. She urged the Parlement of Paris to have jurisdiction over the case, however they refused as legally it had been sequestered from them to the attention of the king's council.In 1571, 5 years after the marriage of Nemours and d'Este, the Pope endorsed the decision of the archbishop of Lyon, leading Françoise to formally convert to Protestantism.The child of this illegitimate pregnancy was Henri de Savoie, comte de Genevois.

Reign of Henri II
Italian wars
Nemours fought in the recently resumed Italian Wars in 1552, fighting at the spectacular victory of the defence of Metz and the siege of Lens where he distinguished himself. In the following years he fought at the shocking French victory of the Battle of Renty in 1554 and then in Piedmont the following year.In late 1556, the French invaded Italy in support of the Pope. Nemours travelled with the expedition as commander of the infantry. Alongside the usual benefits of campaign it afforded him some distance from Navarre, who wanted him dead. The campaign would achieve little of note, becoming mired in the intrigues of Italian politics. With François, Duke of Guise's remarkable capture of Calais, the king was in the mood to hand out favours to those who had participated in the victory. Claude, Duke of Aumale was made governor of Piedmont, leaving his post at the head of the light cavalry vacant. Nemours was thus granted the privilege of commander of the light cavalry in Aumale's stead.

Peace
To celebrate the end of the Italian Wars with the peace of Cateau-Cambrésis it was decided to host a joust. Henri, always a lover of martial sports, decided to participate. Also participating were François I, Duke of Nevers, Guise and Nemours. Nemours and Guise both rode against the king, Henri getting the better of his nobles in both engagements. It would be at this event that during a joust against Montgommery, the captain of his Scots Guard, Henri would be killed as a splinter of his opponent's lance embedded itself in his head.

Reign of François II
The new Guise-led administration that formed for the young François II of France was faced with a kingdom in financial and religious crisis. Opposition on both of these impetuses coalesced into the Conspiracy of Amboise where an array of nobles sought to seize the king and kill his advisers. The Guise became aware of this conspiracy, and prepared to respond militarily on its launch. Nemours, fresh off the capture of Mazères and Raunay, was tasked with reducing a château held by the baron de Castelnau, one of the ringleaders. His forces surrounded the château du Noizay but decided it would be more advantageous to reduce the fortified residence through negotiation. In an interview with the baron he was able to convince him to come peacefully, in return for a promise 'on his honour' that neither Castelnau or his followers would be executed. The administration would not however honour this promise Nemours made, either due to disinterest or due to him not mentioning it to the court. As such despite the protestations of many Catholic nobles, including Anne d'Este a man of 'good birth' would be put to death.

Reign of Charles IX
Ousted from government by the death of the young king in December 1560, the Guise retreated from court, conscious that they were unlikely to receive much office or favours under the new formal regency for Charles IX. Accompanying them on their departure in January were Nemours and Longueville.

Conspiracy
To many Catholics the environment in which the young princes were being raised appeared far too Protestant. To this end a plot was devised to spirit the young Anjou away from court so that he could be raised in properly Catholic environs such as Savoy. Nemours was implicated as a leader in this attempted conspiracy. To encourage the young prince away from the court, Nemours had enlisted the young Henri de Guise, to draw his playmate away. Having gained awareness of the plot, Catherine questioned her child as to who had tried to persuade him to leave court; the 10-year-old implicated Nemours on 29 October. Shortly thereafter Catherine ordered Nemours' arrest, and he fled court. However as she began to pursue a case against them, it became apparent that the only testimony in support would be from a 10-year-old child; as such the case against Nemours was dropped shortly thereafter and he was given permission to return to court.With the departure of the Guise and their allies from the court for the second time in October 1561, Nemours was among those who joined them on their exodus. The motive for the departure was not purely religious but also factional, with Longueville, a long-time associate of the Guise, departing also, despite his Protestantism. In total their retinue numbered 700 horse, a large section of the nobility gathered at court. Their departure, alongside that of Anne de Montmorency left the regency government of Catherine de Medici with a precariously thin base of support, propped up only by the Bourbon-Vendôme and the Châtillon.

First war of religion
During the first civil war, Nemours attempted to reduce the city of Lyon which had risen up in support of the prince of Condé. He fought with the baron des Adrets in Dauphiné, and in December was in the process of negotiating a favourable truce with the infamous commander which would have seen him secure the defection of the rebel army. However, Adrets' subordinates learned of the negotiations and had him arrested. In the major field battle of the war at Dreux, the governor of the Lyonnais, Beaujolais and Forez, Marshal Saint-André was murdered on the field after having surrendered. This left a vacancy for his governate, which was to be filled by Nemours.In the wake of the Edict of Amboise which brought the first civil war to a close with the provision of limited toleration to Protestants the crown desired to reconcile the factions to ensure internal peace. To this end they courted Condé, hoping to foster his loyalty. Catherine de Medici informed Anne d'Este that she had successfully reconciled Condé with Nemours and Cardinal Guise, brother of the late duke.

Feud
During the final siege of the first war of religion, the duke of Guise had been assassinated. The family blamed Gaspard II de Coligny for ordering the hit and were determined to pursue 'justice' against the Admiral. Coligny for his part came under the protection of his uncle Montmorency, who re-opened his rivalry with the Guise in defence of his nephew. In an attempt to gain the upper hand, the Guise arranged for a petition to court, from many leading nobles, arguing for the right to open a case against Coligny. Nemours was among the signatories, however the court proved uninterested, and formally suspended any investigation into the murder in early 1564.

Governor
As governor of the Lyonnais, Nemours was keen to patronise 'men of letters' and other centres of learning within his governate. As the crown increasingly loomed on the cusp of bankruptcy, the distribution of funds to its regional governors became more erratic and rare. By 1565 Nemours had accumulated 140,000 livres of debts for unpaid pensions and salaries during his tenure as governor. It was hoped by governors that these debts would be satisfied by the court when it had greater funds.

Second war of religion
Frustrated at their declining influence in court, and the increasingly restrictive direction royal policy was moving in regarding Protestantism, the leading Protestants again plotted a coup. Their aim was to seize the king while he was staying at Meaux, and to kill Charles, Cardinal of Lorraine. Their attempt was a failure and the king was able to retreat with the court to Paris after some debate. While Hôpital, the chancellor, had argued in favour of relying on the fortifications at Meaux, Nemours and Guise advocated a flight to Paris and convinced the court successfully. As they fled, they were pursued by the Protestant forces, who adapted their plan to a siege of Paris. To this end they began trying to invest the city, while Anne de Montmorency assembled an army inside for a breakout. While Montmorency was busy building an army, Nemours was among those commanders trying to relieve pressure on the city. On 7 November he successfully captured a river crossing that was vital to a successful siege of Paris. Several days later Montmorency was ready and broke out of the city, besting the Protestant army at Saint-Denis on 10 November.
During the battle of Saint-Denis, Montmorency would be killed, leaving the office of Constable of France and role as chief of the crown's military vacant. The crown had little desire to see another powerful noble family control this critical post; as such, to replace him, the king's brother Anjou was selected to lead the crown's war effort. While closer to the family, Anjou was still a child, and as such to provide him military guidance, and to actually lead the army in the field, a selection of loyal nobles were chosen. Artus de Cossé-Brissac the recently promoted Marshal, the king's cousin Louis, Duke of Montpensier and Nemours were chosen for this important role, with Cossé in overall charge.

Third war of religion
At the outset of the third war of religion, the Protestants had consolidated their movement in the south west as opposed to fighting in the north as they had previously. Nevertheless the crown was conscious that Louis of Nassau was seeking to enter France with an army from the Spanish Netherlands; to this end Charles instructed Nemours to assemble an army for the defence of Paris, however Nassau was bested at the border. In early 1569, it became clear that the duke of Zweibrücken was intending to cross into France in support of the Protestant nobility that was gathered in the west. To this end the court, little desiring to see a conjunction between the two forces, assembled a second army. Aumale was tasked with leading the blocking force in Champagne, with forces from the Rhône valley under Nemours to support him in this effort. The two commanders did not get along, and their constant conflict enabled Zweibrücken to slip past them through the Franche-Comté and establish contact with the Protestants under Gaspard II de Coligny. The mutinous remains of their combined army linked with the main royal force under the king's brother Anjou at Limoges.

Withdrawal
By 1571, Nemours wished to resign his governorship of the Lyonnais. He chose to do so in favour of his lieutenant-general in the region, and former page François de Mandelot. This arrangement had been very unusual in the early 16th century, with the choice of governors defaulting to the crown on the resignation or death of a sitting governor; however by the 1560s it was becoming increasingly common. Mandelot would govern the Lyonnais until his death in 1588.

Reign of Henri III
Malcontents
By 1575 Protestants were no longer the only ones in rebellion, as the Malcontent movement swept up many politiques who wished for religious compromise to secure stability in the kingdom. Nevers warned the king's younger brother Alençon, not to take the opportunity presented, saying that those who rebelled against the authority of the king did not triumph. Yet Alençon saw this movement as conducive to his own power, and aligned himself with the Malcontents, releasing a manifesto in which he denounced the influence of 'foreigners' and calling for their exclusion from the estates general. By this term he referred to the Guise, who were from Lorraine, and the duke of Nevers and Nemours, both of whom were of Italian descent. While Alençon would succeed in securing favourable terms for himself in the Peace of Monsieur, Nemours and Nevers would remain active in court life.

Ligue
In response to the generous Peace of Monsieur which brought the fifth war of religion to a close, militant Catholics reacted with fury. Many across France began forming religious leagues, the most popular model of which was that created by Jacques d'Humières in Peronne which began to spread across France. Henri suspected the involvement of Henri, Duke of Guise, Charles, Duke of Mayenne and Nemours as ringleaders of this ligue and made them all swear oaths to abide by the terms of the peace of Monsieur. Frustrated at his continued inability to contain the movement, he declared himself to be at its head, and was compelled by the Estates General of 1576 to void the peace and make war on the Protestants again.Having primarily devoted his final years to letters and art, he died at Annecy in 1585.

Ancestry
Passage 5:
Jean d'Armagnac, Duke of Nemours
Jean d'Armagnac, Duke of Nemours (1467–1500) was the son of Jacques d'Armagnac, Duke of Nemours and Louise of Anjou. His father's possessions were confiscated on his execution in 1477, but Jean was restored to Nemours and the family's other lands in 1484. He led a dissipated life, and his siblings sued him to prevent him from alienating the family lands to pay his debts. In 1489, he traded the viscounties of Carlat and Murat to Peter II, Duke of Bourbon for the county of l'Isle-Jourdain.
He married Yolande de La Haye (d. 1517) in 1492, but had no children. He was succeeded by his brother Louis, Count of Guise.
Passage 6:
Maria of Brabant, Duchess of Bavaria
Maria of Brabant (1226–1256) was a daughter of Henry II, Duke of Brabant, and Maria of Swabia. She married Louis II, Duke of Bavaria, being the first of three wives.

Background
Maria was the daughter of Duke Henry II of Brabant and Lorraine from his first marriage to Maria of Swabia, daughter of King Philip of Swabia. The younger Maria's siblings included Henry III, Duke of Brabant and Matilda of Brabant. After her mother's death her father married Sophie of Thuringia; from this marriage she gained two half-siblings, including Henry I of Hesse.

Betrothals and marriage
On 2 August 1254, Maria married Louis II, Duke of Bavaria. The couple were married for only two years, during which time they had no children.

Execution
Maria was executed by beheading in Donauwörth in 1256 after having been accused of adultery by her husband. It was later determined that Louis had not proven his case, and in fact had not presented any valid evidence of adultery; as penance, he founded the Cistercian friary Fürstenfeld Abbey (Fürstenfeldbruck) near Munich.
Different sources give varying accounts. According to the chronicle of Esiah Wilpacher, Louis was at war with the Prince-Bishopric of Augsburg. Maria's confessor, allegedly in league with the bishop, persuaded her to write her husband requesting he end the siege and return home. When this failed, she then wrote to one of his vassals, who being away from camp, Louis received the letter. Recognizing the handwriting, he read it and construed it as indicating she was having an affair.Over time a great many tales of folklore sprang up around Louis' deed, most of them written long after his death: Ballad-mongers embellished the tale into a murderous frenzy during which Louis allegedly not only killed his wife after having ridden home for five days and nights, but also stabbed the messenger who brought him the wrong letter; then upon entering his castle, stabbed his own castellan and a court lady and threw his wife's maid from the battlements, before he massacred his wife either by stabbing her or cutting off her head. More restrained chronicles support the account of Marie's execution on 18 January 1256 at Mangoldstein Castle in Donauwörth by ducal decree for alleged adultery, but nothing beyond that.
Maria is said to be the basis for the legendary Genevieve of Brabant in Dutch folklore.
Passage 7:
Armand de Bourbon, Prince of Conti
Armand de Bourbon, Prince of Conti (11 October 1629 – 26 February 1666), was a French nobleman, the younger son of Henri II, Prince of Condé and Charlotte Marguerite de Montmorency, daughter of Henri I, Duke of Montmorency. He was the brother of le Grand Condé and Anne Geneviève, Duchess of Longueville. As a member of the reigning House of Bourbon, he was a Prince du Sang.

Early life
The title of Prince of Conti was revived in his favor at the time of his birth in 1629. With the title Armand also inherited the Château de L'Isle-Adam and its estate, which had been passed down to his mother Charlotte Marguerite after the death of her brother, Henri II de Montmorency. He was destined for a clerical career and studied theology at the university of Bourges, but although he received several benefices, including the abbeys of Cluny and Saint Denis, he did not take orders. He played a conspicuous part in the intrigues and fighting of the Fronde, became in 1648 commander-in-chief of the rebel army, and in 1650 was with his brother (Condé) and brother-in-law (Longueville) imprisoned at Vincennes.

Life in prison
Said to be "mystic" and "full of strange ideas", Conti turned slightly mad while in prison. Having a secret passion for his sister the Duchess of Longueville, he invented tricks to make her notice him. He tried alchemy and potions for some time and eventually bruised himself with a spatula. This episode was ultimately fortunate for him because he could no longer be refused external help from physicians, some of whom would pass letters and pleas to the outside world which speeded up his eventual release.

Later life
Released when Cardinal Mazarin went into exile, he wished to marry Charlotte-Marie de Lorraine (1627–1652), the second daughter of Madame de Chevreuse, the confidante of the queen, Anne of Austria (wife of King Louis XIII of France), but was prevented from doing so by his brother Condé, who was now supreme in the state. He was concerned in the Fronde of 1651, but soon afterwards became reconciled with Cardinal Mazarin, and in 1654, married the cardinal's niece, Anne Marie Martinozzi, as well as secured the government of Guienne. They had two sons, Louis Armand and François Louis.
He took command of the army, which in 1654, invaded Spain through Catalonia, where he captured three towns from the Spanish. He afterwards led the French forces in Italy, but after his defeat before Alessandria in 1657, he retired to Languedoc, where he devoted himself to study and mysticism until his death.At Clermont, Conti had been a fellow student of Molière's, from whom he secured an introduction to the court of King Louis XIV, but afterwards, when writing a treatise against the stage entitled, Traité de la comédie et des spectacles selon les traditions de l'Église (Paris, 1667), he charged the dramatist with keeping a school of atheism. Conti also wrote Lettres sur la grâce, and Du devoir des grands et des devoirs des gouverneurs de province.Conti died on 26 February 1666 at Pézenas in Languedoc, France.

Issue
Armand married Anne Marie Martinozzi, the daughter of Girolamo Martinozzi and Laura Margherita Mazzarini, elder sister of Cardinal Mazarin. They had the following children:

Louis de Bourbon (1658), died in infancy.
Louis Armand I, Prince of Conti (1661–1685), married Marie Anne de Bourbon, the eldest legitimised daughter of King Louis XIV and his mistress, Louise de La Vallière, and died childless.
François Louis, Prince of Conti (1664–1709), known as "le Grand Conti", married Marie Thérèse de Bourbon, daughter of Henri Jules, Prince of Condé (Armand's nephew), and had issue.

Ancestry
Passage 8:
Denis Sauvage
Denis Sauvage (1520–1587) was a French translator, historian, publisher, philologist, and historiographer at the service of Henry II of Henri II.

Publications
History
Sommaire des histoires du royaume de Naples : qui traicte de toutes choses advenues en iceluy, composé premièrement en langage italien par M. Pandolfo Collenuccio, et depuis n'aguères mis en françois par Denis Sauvage, avecques annotations (1546 ; 1553)
Les Annales et croniques de France, jadis composées par feu maistre Nicole Gilles, imprimées nouvellement sur la correction du signeur Denis Sauvage, et additionnées jusques à cest an mil cinq cens cinquante trois (1553)
Les Mémoires de messire Philippe de Commines, chevalier, seigneur d'Argenton : sur les principaux faicts, & gestes de Louis onziéme & de Charles huictiéme, son filz, Roys de France, Reveus & corrigés, pour la seconde fois, par Denis Sauvage de Fontenailles en Brie, historiographe de très-chrestien roy Henry IIe de ce nom (1559 ; 1561 ; 1581). Texte en ligne : [1] et [2]
Le premier volume de l'Histoire et cronique de Messire Iehan Froissart, reveu et corrigé sus divers exemplaires et suyvant les bons auteurs, par Denis Sauvage, le second volume de l'Histoire et cronique de Messire Iehan Froissart ; le tiers volume de l'Histoire et cronique de Messire Iehan Froissart ; le quart volume de l'Histoire et cronique de Messire Iehan Froissart (1559–60). Texte en ligne : [3]
Cronique de Flandres, anciennement composée par auteur incertain et nouvellement mise en lumière (1562).
Les Mémoires de messire Olivier de La Marche, premier maistre d'hostel de l'archeduc Philippe d'Austriche, comte de Flandres (1562)
Les Croniques et annales de France composées par feu maistre Nicole Gilles, nouvellement imprimées sur la correction de maistre Denis Sauvage, et additionnées jusques au roy Charles neufiesme à présent régnant (1571)

Translations
La Circé de M. Giovan Baptista Gello, nouvellement mise en françois (1550)
Philosophie d'amour de M. Léon Hébreu, traduite d'italien en françois (1577 ; 1580 ; 1590 ; 1893). Read online : [4]
Histoire de Paolo Giovio, sur les choses faictes et avenues de son temps en toutes les parties du monde, traduictes du latin en françois (2 volumes, 1581)
Opuscule des vertus et notables faictes des femmes, de Plutarque, 1546.
Passage 9:
Louis d'Armagnac, Duke of Nemours
Louis d'Armagnac, Duke of Nemours (1472; Normandy, France – 28 April 1503; Cerignola, Italy), was a French nobleman, politician and military commander who served as Viceroy of Naples during the Third Italian War (1502-1504). He was known for most of his life as the Count of Guise, and inherited the Duchy of Nemours following his brother Jean's death in 1500.

Family
Louis was the third son of Jacques d'Armagnac, Duke of Nemours and Louise of Anjou. In 1491, he was made Count of Guise, a title last held by his uncle Charles IV, Duke of Anjou. Upon the death of his elder brother Jean in 1500, he became Duke of Nemours.

Viceroy of Naples
Louis was made  viceroy of Naples in 1501, during the Third Italian War (1502-1504). He was killed at the battle of Cerignola on 28 April 1503.

Notes
Sources
Cuttler, S. H. (2003). The Law of Treason and Treason Trials in Later Medieval France. Cambridge University Press.
Potter, David (2008). Renaissance France at war: Armies, Culture and Society, c.1480-1560. Boydell Press.
Passage 10:
Philip, Duke of Nemours
Philip of Savoy, Duke of Nemours (1490 – 25 November 1533) was a French nobleman.  He was a son of Philip II, Duke of Savoy, and his second wife Claudine de Brosse. He was a half-brother of Louise of Savoy, the mother of Francis I of France. He was the founder of the Nemours branch of the house of Savoy which eventually settled in France.
Originally destined for the priesthood, he was given the bishopric of Geneva at the age of five, but resigned it in 1510, when he was made count of Genevois. He served under Louis XII, with whom he was present at the battle of Agnadello (1509), under the emperor Charles V in 1520, and finally under his nephew, Francis I.
In 1528 Francis gave him the duchy of Nemours and married him to Charlotte of Orleans, a daughter of  Louis d'Orléans, Duke of Longueville. They had two children:

Joanna (1532–1568), who married Nicolas, Duke of Mercœur as his second wife, and had 6 children with him, and
Jacques, Duke of Nemours