Passage 1:
Duke Ding of Qi
Duke Ding of Qi (Chinese: 齊丁公; pinyin: Qí Dīng Gōng; reigned c. 10th century BC) was the second recorded ruler of the ancient Chinese state of Qi during the Western Zhou Dynasty.  His personal name was Lü Ji (呂伋) and ancestral name was Jiang (姜).According to classical Chinese texts such as the Records of the Grand Historian and Zuo Zhuan, Duke Ding succeeded his father Lü Shang, Duke Tai of Qi, who was said to have been a centenarian.  Duke Ding supposedly served King Kang of Zhou along with other major vassal state rulers including Xiong Yi, viscount of Chu, Count Kang of Wey (衞康伯), Xie, Marquis of Jin and Boqin, Duke of Lu.  However, most modern historians believe Duke Ding was in fact the fifth-generation descendant of Duke Tai, and he could not have served King Kang of Zhou.After Duke Ding died, he was succeeded by his son Duke Yǐ of Qi.

Family
Wives:

The mother of Crown Prince Dexing and Prince DeSons:

Prince Heng (公子衡), the progenitor of the Nie (聶) lineage
Served as the Minister of War of Wey
Fourth son, Crown Prince Dexing (世子德興), the progenitor of the Cui lineage and the father of Count Mu of Cui (崔穆伯)
Prince De (公子得; d. 933 BC), ruled as Duke Yǐ of Qi from 974–933 BC
A son who ruled as the Count of Yi (懿)

Ancestry
Passage 2:
Tjuyu
Thuya (sometimes transliterated as Touiyou, Thuiu, Tuya, Tjuyu or Thuyu) was an Egyptian noblewoman and the mother of queen Tiye, and the wife of Yuya. She is the grandmother of Akhenaten, and great grandmother of Tutankhamun.

Biography
Thuya is believed to be a descendant of Queen Ahmose-Nefertari, and she held many official roles in the interwoven religion and government of ancient Egypt. She was involved in many religious cults; her titles included 'Singer of Hathor' and 'Chief of the Entertainers' of both Amun and Min. She also held the influential offices of Superintendent of the Harem of the god Min of Akhmin and of Amun of Thebes.  She married Yuya, a powerful ancient Egyptian courtier of the Eighteenth Dynasty.  She is believed to have died in around 1375 BC in her early to mid 50s.

Children
Yuya and Thuya had a daughter named Tiye, who became the Great Royal Wife of Pharaoh Amenhotep III. The great royal wife was the highest Egyptian religious position, serving alongside of the pharaoh in official ceremonies and rituals.
Yuya and Thuya also had a son named Anen, who carried the titles Chancellor of Lower Egypt, Second Prophet of Amun, sm-priest of Heliopolis and Divine Father.They also may have been the parents of Ay, an Egyptian courtier active during the reign of pharaoh Akhenaten who became pharaoh after the death of Tutankhamun. However, there is no conclusive evidence regarding the kinship of Yuya and Ay, although certainly, both men came from Akhmim.

Tomb
Thuya was interred in tomb KV46 in the Valley of the Kings, together with her husband Yuya, where their largely intact burial was found in 1905. It was the best-preserved tomb discovered in the Valley before that of Tutankhamun, Thuya's great-grandson. The tomb was discovered by a team of workmen led by archaeologist James Quibell on behalf of the American millionaire Theodore M. Davis. Though the tomb had been robbed in antiquity, much of its contents were still present, including beds, boxes, chests, a chariot, and the sarcophagi, coffins, and mummies of the two occupants.Thuya's large gilded and black-painted wooden sarcophagus was placed against the south wall of the tomb. It is rectangular, with a lid shaped like the sloping roof of the per-wer shrine of Upper Egypt, and sits on ornamental sledge runners, their non-functionality underscored by the three battens attached below them. Ancient robbers had partially dismantled it to access her coffins and mummy, placing its lid and one long side on a bed on the other side of the tomb; the other long side had been leaned against the south wall. Her outer gilded anthropoid coffin had been removed, its lid placed atop the beds, and the trough put into the far corner of the tomb; the lid of her second (innermost) coffin, also gilded, had been removed and placed to one side although the trough and her mummy remained inside the sarcophagus. Quibell suggests this is due to the robbers having some difficulty in removing the lid of this coffin.

Mummy
Thuya's mummified body was found covered with a large sheet of linen, knotted at the back and secured by four bandages. These bands were covered with resin and opposite each band were her gilded titles cut from gold foil. The resin coating on the lower layers of bandages preserved the impression of a large broad collar. The mummy bands that had once covered her wrapped mummy were recovered above the storage jars on the far side of the room.The first examination of her body was conducted by Australian anatomist Grafton Elliot Smith. He found her to be an elderly woman of small stature, 1.495 metres (4.90 ft) in height, with white hair. Both of her earlobes had two piercings. Her arms are straight at her sides with her hands against the outside of her thighs. Her embalming incision is stitched with thread, to which a carnelian barrel bead is attached at the lower end; her body cavity is stuffed with resin-soaked linen. When Dr. Douglas Derry, (who later conducted the first examination of Tutankhamun's mummy) assisting Smith in his examination, exposed Thuya's feet to get an accurate measurement of her height, he found her to be wearing gold foil sandals. Smith estimated her age at more than 50 years based on her outward appearance alone. Recent CT scanning has estimated her age at death to be 50–60 years old. Her brain was removed, though no embalming material was inserted, and both nostrils were stuffed with linen. Embalming packs had been placed into her eye sockets, and subcutaneous filling had been placed into her mid and lower face to restore a lifelike appearance; embalming material had also been placed into her mouth and throat. Her teeth were in poor condition at the time of her death, with missing molars. Heavy wear and abscesses had been noted in earlier x-rays. The scan revealed that she had severe scoliosis with a Cobb angle of 25 degrees. No cause of death could be determined. Her mummy has the inventory number CG 51191.

Archaeological items pertaining to Thuya
Passage 3:
King Cheng of Zhou
King Cheng of Zhou (Chinese: 周成王; pinyin: Zhōu Chéng Wáng; Wade–Giles: Chou1 Ch‘êng2 Wang2), personal name Ji Song (姬誦), was the second king of the Chinese Zhou dynasty. The dates of his reign are 1042–1021 BCE or 1042/35–1006 BCE. His parents were King Wu of Zhou and Queen Yi Jiang (邑姜).King Cheng was young when he ascended the throne. His uncle, Duke of Zhou, fearing that Shang forces might rise again under the possible weak rule of a young ruler, became the regent and supervised government affairs for several years. Duke of Zhou established the eastern capital at Luoyang, and later defeated a rebellion by Cheng's uncles Cai Shu, Guan Shu and Huo Shu.King Cheng later stabilized the Zhou dynasty's border by defeating several barbarian tribes along with the Duke of Zhou.

Family
Queens:

Wang Si, of the Si clan (王姒 姒姓), the mother of Crown Prince ZhaoSons:

Crown Prince Zhao (太子釗; 1040–996 BC), ruled as King Kang of Zhou from 1020 to 996 BC

Ancestry
See also
Family tree of ancient Chinese emperors
Passage 4:
King Kang of Zhou
King Kang of Zhou, personal name Ji Zhao, was the third sovereign of the Chinese Zhou Dynasty and son of King Cheng of Zhou. The dates of his reign are 1020–996 BC or 1005–978 BC.King Kang followed his father's policy and expanded the Zhou territory in the North and in the West. He also repressed a rebellion in the east. Life prospered in the Zhou Dynasty under Kang’s rule.
His was succeeded by his son King Zhao of Zhou.

Family
Queens:

Wang Jiang, of the Jiang clan (王姜 姜姓), the mother of Crown Prince XiaSons:

Crown Prince Xia (太子瑕; 1027–977 BC), ruled as King Zhao of Zhou from 995–977 BC

Ancestry
See also
Family tree of ancient Chinese emperors
Passage 5:
King Ding of Zhou
King Ding of Zhou (Chinese: 周定王; pinyin: Zhōu Dìng Wáng), personal name Ji Yu, was the twenty-first king of the Chinese Zhou dynasty and the ninth of Eastern Zhou. He was a son of King Qing of Zhou and brother of King Kuang of Zhou.He sent an official named Wangsun Man to present gifts to the Chu army. He met Prince Zhuang.

Family
Spouse:

Queen Ding of Zhou, of the Jiang clan of Qi (周定後 姜姓), possibly a daughter of Duke Hui of Qi; married in 603 BCSons:

Prince Yi (王子夷; d. 572 BC), ruled as King Jian of Zhou from 585–572 BC

Ancestry
See also
Family tree of ancient Chinese emperors


== Sources ==
Passage 6:
Hubba bint Hulail
Hubba bint Hulail (Arabic: حبة بنت هليل) was the grandmother of Hashim ibn 'Abd Manaf, thus the great-great-great-grandmother of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.

Biography
Hubbah was the daughter of Hulail ibn Hubshiyyah ibn Salul ibn Ka’b ibn Amr al-Khuza’i of Banu Khuza'a who was the trustee and guardian of the Ka‘bah (Arabic: كَـعْـبَـة, 'Cube'). She married Qusai ibn Kilab and after her father died, the keys of the Kaaba were committed to her. Qusai, according to Hulail's will, had the trusteeship of the Kaaba after him.
Hubbah never gave up ambitious hopes for the line of her favourite son Abd Manaf. Her two favourite grandsons were the twin sons Amr and Abd Shams, of ‘Ātikah bint Murrah. Hubbah hoped that the opportunities missed by Abd Manaf would be made up for in these grandsons, especially Amr, who seemed much more suitable for the role than any of the sons of Abd al-Dar. He was dear to the ‘ayn (Arabic: عـيـن, eye) of his grandmother Hubbah.

Family
Qusai ibn Kilab had four sons by Hubbah: Abd-al-Dar ibn Qusai dedicated to his house, Abdu’l Qusayy dedicated to himself, Abd-al-Uzza ibn Qusai to his goddess (Al-‘Uzzá) and Abd Manaf ibn Qusai to the idol revered by Hubbah. They also had two daughters, Takhmur and Barrah. Abd Manaf's real name was 'Mughirah', and he also had the nickname 'al-Qamar' (the Moon) because he was handsome.
Hubbah was related to Muhammad in more than one way. Firstly, she was the great-great-grandmother of his father Abdullah. She was also the great-grandmother of Umm Habib and Abdul-Uzza, respectively the maternal grandmother and grandfather of Muhammad's mother Aminah.

Family tree
* indicates that the marriage order is disputed
Note that direct lineage is marked in bold.

See also
Family tree of Muhammad
List of notable Hijazis
Passage 7:
Duke of Shao
Shi, Duke of Shao (died c. 1000 BCE), born Ji Shi, posthumous name Kang (康), also known as Lord of Shao or Duke of Shao, Duke Kang of Shao, and Grand Protector Shi, was a high-ranking minister of the early Zhou dynasty. He was a member of the royal clan. After King Wu of Zhou's death, Lord Shao supported the Duke of Zhou in his regency and helped suppress the Rebellion of the Three Guards. He remained a major figure at court for decades.

Royal kin
The earliest biography of Lord Shao, in Sima Qian's Records of the Grand Historian, states merely that he was a member of same ancestral temple kinship group as the house of Zhou. Wang Chong's Lunheng calls him the elder brother of the Duke of Zhou. Huangfu Mi states Lord Shao was the son of King Wen of Zhou by a concubine. Modern scholarship has not significantly modified this view. Edward Shaughnessy called Lord Shao half-brother to the Duke of Zhou in a 1989 paper. Maria Khayutina, writing in 2015, reads the Gu Ming (顧命) chapter of the Shangshu as ordering the lineages who visit the ailing King Cheng of Zhou by their seniority rank within the Ji ancestral temple. With Shao in the first position, prior to the lineages founded by the sons of King Wen she reasons this lineage was founded earlier.

Early career
For his role in the Zhou conquest of Shang, King Wu created Lord Shao the regional lord of Yan, but he never went to his lands, sending a son to mind them in his stead. Lord Shao was also appointed as the Grand Protector (太保), one of the Three Ducal Ministers, the highest ministerial positions in the capital. The Duke of Zhou was another.
Two years after the conquest, before Zhou power had been completely consolidated, King Wu was dead. His son was considered too young to be fit to rule, and the Duke of Zhou unilaterally took power. The preceding Shang dynasty had handled succession by distributed agnatic seniority, a pattern which followed would have put the Duke of Zhou next in line for the throne. An illegally excavated manuscript version of a chapter of Shangshu, part of the Tsinghua bamboo slips, allows for the reading that the Duke of Zhou had performed a sacrifice to the ancestral spirits to divine whether he was their chosen successor to the ailing King Wu. The traditional reading interprets this passage to indicate the Duke of Zhou offering his life if the king's could be spared. In both readings, this ceremony is suggested by the other two Ducal Ministers.Traditionally, the Duke of Zhou is considered to have assumed regency rather than kingship. In any case, the son of the vanquished Shang king and affiliated groups, possibly aided by Zhou royal brothers, took the opportunity to rebel in an action called the Rebellion of the Three Guards. Lord Shao allied with the Duke of Zhou, and after three years the rebellion was suppressed.

Sharing power
With the violence quelled, King Wu's son, now three years less young, along with the victorious Lord Shao and Duke of Zhou, entered into a triple alliance, sharing power delicately between them. Lord Shao was given power over the lands to the west of the twin capitals Feng and Hao, on the Wei river in present day Xi'an, Shaanxi. This included his lineage's power base near the predynastic Zhou capital of Xishan; the Duke of Zhou was given control over the lands to the east.  It was during this timeframe Lord Shao went to survey the site of the new capital city Luoyi (present day Luoyang, Henan), which would control both the strategic ford which had facilitated the Zhou conquest in the first place, as well as the pass through the mountains to the Zhou homeland. The portents were also auspicious, and Lord Shao had rammed earth city wall constructed in a month's time.Multiple episodes carried by the Shangshu relate to this period of time, and two in particular relate to each other and the power struggle at court. Jun Shi (君奭), a piece of persuasive writing from the Duke of Zhou to Lord Shao is one, and the other is Shao Gao (召誥), mostly by Lord Shao.
The language is archaic, and admits multiple readings. The traditional reading takes into account a cryptic statement that Lord Shao was unhappy at court to read Jun Shi as a plea from Lord Shao to remain in his position and help coadminister government affairs until the new king is ready. Shao Gao is then read as an exhortation to the new king to do a good job.An alternative reading pits the two chapters against one another, with Lord Shao highlighting how the Mandate of Heaven flows only to the eldest son, and the Duke of Zhou calling upon a panoply of worthy ministers of yore to support his platform of how crucial capable ministers are to good government, quoting Lord Shao's own words back at him about how the two of them would work together, asserting that heaven's mandate had come jointly to the Zhou as a group, and ending with an impassioned plea where he addresses Lord Shao as his brother.Although the two texts are clearly closely related, which is the response to the other is debated. And whether they are read from a traditional or revisionist viewpoint, regardless of the personal, political, or philosophical motives behind either man's words, soon thereafter the young King Cheng stepped fully into his authority, and the Duke of Zhou disappeared from the political scene for the remainder of his life.

Longevity
Lord Shao served four generations of Zhou kings: King Wen, King Wu, King Cheng, and King Kang. He features prominently in the later Shangshu chapter Gu Ming, which describes the inauguration ritual of King Kang. In it, Lord Shao can be seen to command great respect at court. He is listed first in each enumeration of participants, gives orders to other functionaries to help prepare for the proceedings, performs ritual actions rivaled only by the new king and the Master Ritualist, and reads the command of accession to the king.Wang Chong's Lunheng claims that Lord Shao lived over a hundred years, and epigraphic records securely dateable to the middle years of King Kang's reign tend to support rather than refute this claim.The Classic of Poetry ode "The Sweet Pears" (甘棠) is said to have been composed in his honour.
Passage 8:
King An of Zhou
King An of Zhou (Chinese: 周安王; pinyin: Zhōu Ān Wáng), personal name Ji Jiao, was the thirty-third king of the Chinese Zhou dynasty and the twenty-first of the Eastern Zhou.He succeeded his father King Weilie of Zhou on the throne of China in 401 BC and reigned until his death in 376 BC. After he died, his son King Lie of Zhou ruled over China. His other son was King Xian of Zhou.

Family
Sons:

Prince Xi (王子喜; d. 369 BC), ruled as King Lie of Zhou from 375–369 BC
Prince Bian (王子扁; d. 321 BC), ruled as King Xian of Zhou from 368–321 BC

Ancestry
See also
Family tree of ancient Chinese emperors
Passage 9:
Shu Yu of Tang
Shu Yu of Tang (Chinese: 唐叔虞; pinyin: Táng Shū Yú; lit. 'Yu, [Royal] Uncle of Tang'), ancestral name (姓): Ji (姬) given name (名): Yu (虞),  and Ziyu (子於), was the founder of the State of Tang during the early Zhou Dynasty (1046–771 BC) of ancient China. The State of Tang would later be renamed Jin by Shu Yu's son and successor, Xie. He was the son of King Wu of Zhou and Yi Jiang and the younger brother of King Cheng of Zhou.Shortly after the establishment of the Zhou Dynasty, King Wu of Zhou died. His son, Prince Song, ascended the throne and became King Cheng of Zhou. Since he was very young and too inexperienced to run the newly founded dynasty, his uncle, the Duke of Zhou, served as regent and handled all political affairs until King Cheng of Zhou became old enough to rule. In the year that King Cheng of Zhou ascended the throne, the people of a land called Tang (唐) rebelled, so the Duke of Zhou conquered them.
According to the Records of the Grand Historian, one day, King Cheng of Zhou was playing with his younger brother, Prince Yu. King Cheng of Zhou suddenly picked up a parasol tree leaf and gave it to Prince Yu. Then he said playfully," Let this be a proof that I will make you a feudal lord." Prince Yu happily got the leaf and he then told this to the Duke of Zhou. The Duke of Zhou thought that whatever the young King Cheng of Zhou said should not be taken lightly since he was the king.
The Duke of Zhou approached the young king and asked him if it were true. The young king said that he was just joking with his brother. Then the Duke of Zhou replied, "A sovereign must not joke about the things he says and do as what he has said." The young king thought it was reasonable and gave the recent conquered called Tang land, west of modern Yicheng County in Shanxi, to his brother, Prince Yu.
Shu Yu's son and successor, Xie, moved the capital Jiang nearer to the Jin River and renamed the state Jin.
Jinci was a shrine in Taiyuan dedicated to Shu Yu. It is a major historical and cultural site protected at the national level in People's republic of China.

See also
Family tree of ancient Chinese emperors
Passage 10:
King Kang of Chu
King Kang of Chu (Chinese: 楚康王; pinyin: Chǔ Kāng Wáng, died 545 BC) was from 559 to 545 BC the king of Chu, a major power during the Spring and Autumn period of ancient China.  Born Xiong Zhao (Chinese: 熊招), he succeeded his father King Gong of Chu.  His reign was marked by constant wars with Jin, Chu's traditional enemy, and Wu, its new enemy.  He ruled for 15 years and was succeeded by his son, Jia'ao, who would four years later be murdered by King Kang's younger brother King Ling of Chu.

Battle of Yongpu
When King Kang's father King Gong died in 560 BC, Chu's enemy Wu seized the opportunity to invade Chu.  Chief military commander Zigeng (子庚) and general Yang Youji (养由基) led the Chu army to repel the invaders.  After the initial fight Zigeng feigned defeat.  The Wu army chased the retreating Chu army to Yongpu (庸浦, in present-day Wuwei County, Anhui Province), where they fell into an ambush and were soundly defeated.  Prince Dang, the commander of the Wu army, was captured.

Battle of Zhanban
In 557 BC, just three years after the Battle of Yongpu, Chu fought the last major battle with its traditional enemy Jin at Zhanban (湛阪, in present-day Pingdingshan, Henan Province).  Chu was defeated and lost all of its territory north of Fangcheng, the Great Wall of Chu. The Battle of Zhanban marked the end of the eight-decade-long Jin-Chu rivalry, as a weakened Chu would be consumed by numerous wars with its new enemy Wu, culminating in the 506 BC Battle of Boju, when the Wu army would capture and destroy the Chu capital Ying.  Meanwhile, Jin was increasingly riven by internal strife that would ultimately lead to its partition into the new states of Han, Zhao, and Wei.

Conquest of Shujiu
In 549 BC Duke Ping of Jin attacked the Chu ally Qi.  To help Qi, Chu attacked the Jin ally Zheng.  King Zhufan of Wu seized the opportunity and induced the Chu vassal state Shujiu (舒鸠, in present-day Shucheng County, Anhui Province) to switch its allegiance to Wu.  The next year, Chu prime minister Qu Jian (屈建, also known as Zimu) and general Zijiang (子彊) led an army to punish Shujiu, again ambushing and routing the Wu army.  Chu then annexed Shujiu.

Battle of Chaocheng
In 548 BC, soon after Wu's defeat at Shujiu, King Zhufan personally led an army to again invade Chu, attacking the Chu city Chaocheng (巢城).  Greatly outnumbered by the Wu army, Chu general Niu Chen (牛臣) pretended to give up Chaocheng and left the city gate wide open.  When the unsuspecting Zhufan entered the city, Niu Chen shot and killed him with an arrow.  The Wu army fell into chaos and was again defeated.  Zhufan's brother Yuji succeeded him as king of Wu.

Succession
King Kang was the eldest of King Gong's five sons, four of whom would ascend the throne.  When King Kang died in 545 BC after 15 years of reign he was succeeded by his son Xiong Yuan (posthumous title Jia'ao) and King Kang's younger brother Prince Wei served as the prime minister.  Four years later, Prince Wei murdered Jia'ao and his two sons when he was ill, and usurped the throne.  Prince Wei was later given the pejorative posthumous title King Ling of Chu.In 529 BC when King Ling was on an expedition against the State of Xu, his three younger brothers staged a coup d'etat and killed his son Crown Prince Lu.  Xiong Bi, the third brother, ascended the throne (posthumous title Zi'ao), and the fourth brother Prince Zixi became the prime minister.  When news of the coup reached King Ling's troops they abandoned him en masse, and in desperation King Ling killed himself.However, Xiong Qiji, the fifth brother, concealed the truth about King Ling's death from Zi'ao and Zixi.  Instead, he pretended to be defeated by King Ling and said the king would soon return to the capital.  Zi'ao and Zixi were so fearful that they both committed suicide; Zi'ao had been king for less than twenty days.  Prince Qiji then ascended the throne and would come to be known as King Ping of Chu.

Family tree