Passage 1:
The Comedians of Comedy
The Comedians of Comedy is a stand-up comedy tour featuring comedians Patton Oswalt, Zach Galifianakis, Brian Posehn and Maria Bamford that was documented in a 2005 film and 2005 Comedy Central television series of the same name, both directed by Michael Blieden. After Zach Galifianakis left the tour, he was replaced by comedian Eugene Mirman.

History
The idea behind The Comedians of Comedy—its name a play on The Original Kings of Comedy and similar tours—involves the comedians performing at smaller indie rock venues instead of comedy clubs. Playing indie rock clubs was an idea taken from anti-comic Neil Hamburger, who is considered a pioneer of this type of show, playing such clubs since 2000. Both the film and television series alternate between footage of the comedians on stage and other aspects of their lives on the road.
The final Comedians of Comedy show with Patton Oswalt, Brian Posehn, and Maria Bamford occurred on July 28, 2008, in San Diego, California. Zach Galifianakis appeared via pre-recorded video/sketch and special guests included Paul Scheer, Rob Huebel, and Aziz Ansari of Human Giant, along with Sarah Silverman. The show took place at Spreckels Theatre in San Diego, California during the same weekend as the 2008 San Diego Comic-Con.

Movies and series
The film The Comedians of Comedy, shot during the fall of 2004, had its world premiere at the South by Southwest film festival in March 2005. It is one of the first films to be financed by the DVD-rental service Netflix, also the film's distributor. The film inspired Comedy Central to commission a six-episode Comedians of Comedy television series, involving a six-city tour during the summer of 2005; the show premiered in November of that year. The episodes were shot in Baltimore, New York City, Philadelphia, Atlantic City, Boston and Martha's Vineyard.
After ending their run on Comedy Central, Oswalt, Posehn, Mirman and Morgan Murphy performed in a 2006 Comedians of Comedy tour.The Comedians of Comedy also appeared as one of the Friday opening acts at the 2007 Coachella Valley Arts and Music Festival, including San Francisco Bay Area comedians Brent Weinbach and Jasper Redd.
On October 2, 2007, a DVD of a live performance from the Troubador was released, featuring the cast of the film alongside other notables like Eugene Mirman, Jon Benjamin, David Cross, and others.
Passage 2:
History of comedy
History of comedy may refer to:

The history of comedy
The History of Comedy, a CNN television programThose interested in the ever expansive history of comedy, may also enjoy the comedy of history, one of societies greatest accomplishments.
Passage 3:
List of comedy films of the 1960s
A list of comedy films released in the 1960s.
Passage 4:
The Comedians in Africa
The Comedians is a 1967 American political drama film directed and produced by Peter Glenville, based on the 1966 novel of the same name by Graham Greene, who also wrote the screenplay. The stars were Richard Burton, Elizabeth Taylor, Peter Ustinov, and Alec Guinness. Paul Ford and Lillian Gish had supporting roles as a presidential candidate and wife, as did James Earl Jones as an island doctor. The role played by Elizabeth Taylor was originally intended for Sophia Loren.Set in Haiti during the Papa Doc Duvalier regime, it was filmed in Dahomey (Benin since 1975). The film tells the story of a sardonic white hotel owner and his encroaching fatalism as he watches Haiti sink into barbarism and squalor.

Plot
A ship arrives in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. Four of the alighting passengers are: Major H. O. Jones (Alec Guinness), a British businessman with a letter of invitation to do business with the government; Mr. and Mrs. Smith (Paul Ford and Lillian Gish), an elderly American couple who wish to set up a vegetarian complex for education and nutrition for the locals; and the central character, a cynical, washed-up hotel owner named Brown, portrayed by Richard Burton.
Upon arrival, Major Jones presents his credentials to Captain Concasseur (Raymond St. Jacques), a law enforcement officer, who notices that the official who invited Jones has been deposed and imprisoned. Concasseur and his men rough up and imprison Jones.
Brown has been bequeathed a hotel in the capital from his late British mother, but has been unable to sell it in his trip to New York City. Brown also has an ongoing affair with Martha (Elizabeth Taylor), the German-born wife of the Uruguayan ambassador to Haiti, Pineda (Peter Ustinov). When Martha and Brown have an argument, Brown goes to Mere Catherine's brothel where he discovers that not only has Jones been released, but he's a guest of Captain Concasseur and is enjoying the hospitality of Brown's favourite prostitute, Marie Therese (Cicely Tyson).
Jones has gained the favour of the new regime, who are keen to receive a supply of arms. They have paid a down payment, and Jones claims the weapons are impounded in a warehouse in Miami, but the weapons may be imaginary and a confidence trick by Jones. The government will not allow Jones to leave the island until they are sure the weapons exist.
Mr. Smith, a former "Vegetarian Party" candidate for the Presidency of the United States against Harry S. Truman, is given a tour of the new capital, an empty shambles called Duvalierville. He and Mrs. Smith follow a local procession that they believe is a religious ceremony but turns out to be an audience for executions by firing squad. Captain Concasseur and his men enter Brown's hotel and beat him up until Mrs. Smith bluffs the thugs by threatening to inform her husband, the American "presidential candidate." The Smiths depart the next day.
Brown watches as the Duvalier regime seeks to put down any dissent with an iron fist. He becomes friends with Dr. Magiot (James Earl Jones), the rebel leader who was once a close friend of Brown's late mother.
As Brown becomes a reluctant participant in the planned insurrection, the rebels recruit Major Jones to provide military leadership. Jones has been regaling the other expatriates with his tales of heroism as a commando officer in the Burma Campaign that Brown does not quite believe. Brown hosts a meeting of the group, including Magiot, Jones, and Ambassador Pineda. But trouble ensues soon thereafter – Duvalier’s spies from the Tonton Macoute are watching Brown’s Hotel Trianon and his every step.
When the government informs Jones that they wish to have Captain Concasseur fly to Miami to inspect the apparently fictional arms Jones wishes to sell to the regime. Jones flees to Brown's hotel. Brown is able to get Jones into the Uruguayan embassy where he pleads asylum. He escapes by dressing as Brown's female cook, wearing drag and blackface.
The day after the meeting, three assassins confront Magiot while he’s performing surgery and cut his throat with a scalpel knife.  Taking him to a rebel rendezvous in the place of Dr. Magiot, Brown suspects that Jones has become involved with Martha Pineda. The inebriated Jones makes matters worse by bragging about his conquest.
Driving carelessly up the treacherous, winding road, Brown hits an embankment and breaks the car’s front axle. On foot, they arrive at a remote cemetery, the designated meeting point. They settle in for the night with Jones admitting that his jungle war stories were total fabrication, as was his claimed conquest of Martha.  His wartime career involved running a cinema in India, and he'd never been with a woman he hadn't paid "or promised to pay."
In the morning, Captain Concasseur and one Tonton Macoute accost Brown at the cemetery. Brown denies that the Major is there, talking loudly to warn Jones. But a sleepy Jones approaches anyway. Commanded to stop, Jones turns and runs, but is killed. Brown is ordered into a jeep, but shots from rebels ring out. Concasseur and his henchman drop dead.
Asked about Jones, Brown tells the two rebels in dismay: "You arrived two minutes too late." The rebels plead with Brown to assume the role of Jones, seeing this as the only hope they have left. Brown hesitates, but relents after being asked whether he wants to continue living like this.
The three meet up with a ragtag group of poorly equipped rebels who believe that Brown is Jones. He gives a cynical, taunting speech, apparently without being understood, since the rebels speak French and he English.
The Pinedas are leaving the island. Petit Pierre (Roscoe Lee Browne), a journalist friend of Brown, tells them about a battle between government troops and rebels. He says two rebels have been killed, one "unidentified." As the plane takes off, Martha notices smoke on a hillside of the island. The question whether Brown has survived remains unanswered.

Cast
Richard Burton as Brown
Elizabeth Taylor as Martha Pineda
Alec Guinness as Major Jones
Peter Ustinov as Ambassador Pineda
Georg Stanford Brown as Henri Philipot
Roscoe Lee Browne as Petit Pierre
Paul Ford as Mr. Smith
Gloria Foster as Mrs. Philipot
Lillian Gish as Mrs. Smith
James Earl Jones as Dr. Magiot
Zakes Mokae as Michel
Douta Seck as Joseph
Raymond St. Jacques as Captain Concasseur
Cicely Tyson as Marie Therese

Production
Because political conditions in Haiti made filming there impossible, location shooting took place in Dahomey (now part of the Republic of Benin). Filming also took place on the Côte d'Azur in France. A short promotional documentary titled The Comedians in Africa was released in 1967 which chronicled the difficulties encountered by the on-location crew and cast. The film featured a group of black American actors who would be famous into the 1970s: Raymond St. Jacques, James Earl Jones, and Cicely Tyson. Of these stars, both Tyson and Jones would later be nominated for Academy Awards. Other black stars in the film included Zakes Mokae, Roscoe Lee Browne, Gloria Foster, and Georg Stanford Brown.
This was the final film directed by Glenville, who three years earlier directed Burton in an award-winning production of Becket.  Glenville previously directed the premier of Greene's first play, The Living Room, at Wyndham's Theatre in April 1953. 
Several of the characters were based on real people the newspaper columnist Petit Pierre for instance was based on Aubelin Jolicoeur.

Reception
The film was poorly received, despite the all-star cast. On Rotten Tomatoes it has an approval rating of 27% based on reviews from 11 critics.Variety called the film "plodding, low-key, and eventually tedious". Roger Ebert wrote in the Chicago Sun-Times that "the movie tries to be serious and politically significant, and succeeds only in being tedious and pompous", and denounced the "long, very wordy discussions", though he conceded that "the atmosphere of the Caribbean is invoked convincingly". Bosley Crowther gave the film a mixed review, praising the atmosphere and some individual scenes, but stating: "Mr. Greene's characteristic story of white men carrying their burdens cheerlessly and with an undisguised readiness to dump them as soon as they can get away from this God-forsaken place is no great shakes of a drama. It is conventional and obvious, indeed, and is rendered no better or more beguiling by some rather superfluous additions of amorous scenes".
The film received some recognition from several critics' circles. Lillian Gish received a Golden Globe nomination for Best Supporting Actress. Paul Ford won the 1967 National Board of Review Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role as Smith, and Alec Guinness tied with Robert Shaw in A Man for All Seasons for the 1968 Kansas City Film Critics Circle Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role as Jones.
The film was not successful financially.

See also
List of American films of 1967
Passage 5:
Prom (disambiguation)
A prom is a dance party of high school students.
Prom, Proms or The Prom may also refer to:

Programmable ROM, a form of digital memory
BBC Proms, an annual summer season of daily classical music concerts in London

Arts and entertainment
Film
Prom (film), a 2011 teen comedy from Walt Disney Pictures
The Prom (film), a 2020 American musical comedy film
Flawless (2018 film) (Hebrew: הנשף, Haneshef, 'Prom'), a 2018 Israeli drama film

Television
"Prom" (The Secret Circle)

Music
Prom (album), by Amy Ray, 2005
The Prom (band), an American indie band
"Prom", a song by Mindless Self Indulgence from the 2005 album You'll Rebel to Anything
"Prom" (SZA song), a song by SZA from their 2007 album Ctrl
"Prom", a song by Vulfpeck from the 2011 album Mit Peck

Other uses in arts and entertainment
Prom, a 2005 novel by Laurie Halse Anderson
The Prom (musical), 2016

Medicine
Passive range of motion exercises, in physical therapy
Patient reported outcome measures
Prelabor rupture of membranes, in obstetrics

Other uses
PROM-1, an antipersonnel mine
Phosphate rich organic manure
The Prom, or Wilsons Promontory National Park, in Victoria, Australia
La Prom, nickname of the Promenade des Anglais in Nice, France

See also
All pages with titles beginning with Prom
Prom Night (disambiguation)
Prom Queen (disambiguation)
Promenade (disambiguation)
Passage 6:
List of comedy films of the 2010s
A list of comedy films in the 2010s.

2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019


== Notes ==
Passage 7:
The Comedians in Africa
The Comedians is a 1967 American political drama film directed and produced by Peter Glenville, based on the 1966 novel of the same name by Graham Greene, who also wrote the screenplay. The stars were Richard Burton, Elizabeth Taylor, Peter Ustinov, and Alec Guinness. Paul Ford and Lillian Gish had supporting roles as a presidential candidate and wife, as did James Earl Jones as an island doctor. The role played by Elizabeth Taylor was originally intended for Sophia Loren.Set in Haiti during the Papa Doc Duvalier regime, it was filmed in Dahomey (Benin since 1975). The film tells the story of a sardonic white hotel owner and his encroaching fatalism as he watches Haiti sink into barbarism and squalor.

Plot
A ship arrives in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. Four of the alighting passengers are: Major H. O. Jones (Alec Guinness), a British businessman with a letter of invitation to do business with the government; Mr. and Mrs. Smith (Paul Ford and Lillian Gish), an elderly American couple who wish to set up a vegetarian complex for education and nutrition for the locals; and the central character, a cynical, washed-up hotel owner named Brown, portrayed by Richard Burton.
Upon arrival, Major Jones presents his credentials to Captain Concasseur (Raymond St. Jacques), a law enforcement officer, who notices that the official who invited Jones has been deposed and imprisoned. Concasseur and his men rough up and imprison Jones.
Brown has been bequeathed a hotel in the capital from his late British mother, but has been unable to sell it in his trip to New York City. Brown also has an ongoing affair with Martha (Elizabeth Taylor), the German-born wife of the Uruguayan ambassador to Haiti, Pineda (Peter Ustinov). When Martha and Brown have an argument, Brown goes to Mere Catherine's brothel where he discovers that not only has Jones been released, but he's a guest of Captain Concasseur and is enjoying the hospitality of Brown's favourite prostitute, Marie Therese (Cicely Tyson).
Jones has gained the favour of the new regime, who are keen to receive a supply of arms. They have paid a down payment, and Jones claims the weapons are impounded in a warehouse in Miami, but the weapons may be imaginary and a confidence trick by Jones. The government will not allow Jones to leave the island until they are sure the weapons exist.
Mr. Smith, a former "Vegetarian Party" candidate for the Presidency of the United States against Harry S. Truman, is given a tour of the new capital, an empty shambles called Duvalierville. He and Mrs. Smith follow a local procession that they believe is a religious ceremony but turns out to be an audience for executions by firing squad. Captain Concasseur and his men enter Brown's hotel and beat him up until Mrs. Smith bluffs the thugs by threatening to inform her husband, the American "presidential candidate." The Smiths depart the next day.
Brown watches as the Duvalier regime seeks to put down any dissent with an iron fist. He becomes friends with Dr. Magiot (James Earl Jones), the rebel leader who was once a close friend of Brown's late mother.
As Brown becomes a reluctant participant in the planned insurrection, the rebels recruit Major Jones to provide military leadership. Jones has been regaling the other expatriates with his tales of heroism as a commando officer in the Burma Campaign that Brown does not quite believe. Brown hosts a meeting of the group, including Magiot, Jones, and Ambassador Pineda. But trouble ensues soon thereafter – Duvalier’s spies from the Tonton Macoute are watching Brown’s Hotel Trianon and his every step.
When the government informs Jones that they wish to have Captain Concasseur fly to Miami to inspect the apparently fictional arms Jones wishes to sell to the regime. Jones flees to Brown's hotel. Brown is able to get Jones into the Uruguayan embassy where he pleads asylum. He escapes by dressing as Brown's female cook, wearing drag and blackface.
The day after the meeting, three assassins confront Magiot while he’s performing surgery and cut his throat with a scalpel knife.  Taking him to a rebel rendezvous in the place of Dr. Magiot, Brown suspects that Jones has become involved with Martha Pineda. The inebriated Jones makes matters worse by bragging about his conquest.
Driving carelessly up the treacherous, winding road, Brown hits an embankment and breaks the car’s front axle. On foot, they arrive at a remote cemetery, the designated meeting point. They settle in for the night with Jones admitting that his jungle war stories were total fabrication, as was his claimed conquest of Martha.  His wartime career involved running a cinema in India, and he'd never been with a woman he hadn't paid "or promised to pay."
In the morning, Captain Concasseur and one Tonton Macoute accost Brown at the cemetery. Brown denies that the Major is there, talking loudly to warn Jones. But a sleepy Jones approaches anyway. Commanded to stop, Jones turns and runs, but is killed. Brown is ordered into a jeep, but shots from rebels ring out. Concasseur and his henchman drop dead.
Asked about Jones, Brown tells the two rebels in dismay: "You arrived two minutes too late." The rebels plead with Brown to assume the role of Jones, seeing this as the only hope they have left. Brown hesitates, but relents after being asked whether he wants to continue living like this.
The three meet up with a ragtag group of poorly equipped rebels who believe that Brown is Jones. He gives a cynical, taunting speech, apparently without being understood, since the rebels speak French and he English.
The Pinedas are leaving the island. Petit Pierre (Roscoe Lee Browne), a journalist friend of Brown, tells them about a battle between government troops and rebels. He says two rebels have been killed, one "unidentified." As the plane takes off, Martha notices smoke on a hillside of the island. The question whether Brown has survived remains unanswered.

Cast
Richard Burton as Brown
Elizabeth Taylor as Martha Pineda
Alec Guinness as Major Jones
Peter Ustinov as Ambassador Pineda
Georg Stanford Brown as Henri Philipot
Roscoe Lee Browne as Petit Pierre
Paul Ford as Mr. Smith
Gloria Foster as Mrs. Philipot
Lillian Gish as Mrs. Smith
James Earl Jones as Dr. Magiot
Zakes Mokae as Michel
Douta Seck as Joseph
Raymond St. Jacques as Captain Concasseur
Cicely Tyson as Marie Therese

Production
Because political conditions in Haiti made filming there impossible, location shooting took place in Dahomey (now part of the Republic of Benin). Filming also took place on the Côte d'Azur in France. A short promotional documentary titled The Comedians in Africa was released in 1967 which chronicled the difficulties encountered by the on-location crew and cast. The film featured a group of black American actors who would be famous into the 1970s: Raymond St. Jacques, James Earl Jones, and Cicely Tyson. Of these stars, both Tyson and Jones would later be nominated for Academy Awards. Other black stars in the film included Zakes Mokae, Roscoe Lee Browne, Gloria Foster, and Georg Stanford Brown.
This was the final film directed by Glenville, who three years earlier directed Burton in an award-winning production of Becket.  Glenville previously directed the premier of Greene's first play, The Living Room, at Wyndham's Theatre in April 1953. 
Several of the characters were based on real people the newspaper columnist Petit Pierre for instance was based on Aubelin Jolicoeur.

Reception
The film was poorly received, despite the all-star cast. On Rotten Tomatoes it has an approval rating of 27% based on reviews from 11 critics.Variety called the film "plodding, low-key, and eventually tedious". Roger Ebert wrote in the Chicago Sun-Times that "the movie tries to be serious and politically significant, and succeeds only in being tedious and pompous", and denounced the "long, very wordy discussions", though he conceded that "the atmosphere of the Caribbean is invoked convincingly". Bosley Crowther gave the film a mixed review, praising the atmosphere and some individual scenes, but stating: "Mr. Greene's characteristic story of white men carrying their burdens cheerlessly and with an undisguised readiness to dump them as soon as they can get away from this God-forsaken place is no great shakes of a drama. It is conventional and obvious, indeed, and is rendered no better or more beguiling by some rather superfluous additions of amorous scenes".
The film received some recognition from several critics' circles. Lillian Gish received a Golden Globe nomination for Best Supporting Actress. Paul Ford won the 1967 National Board of Review Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role as Smith, and Alec Guinness tied with Robert Shaw in A Man for All Seasons for the 1968 Kansas City Film Critics Circle Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role as Jones.
The film was not successful financially.

See also
List of American films of 1967
Passage 8:
List of comedy films of the 1950s
A list of comedy films released in the 1950s.
Passage 9:
List of comedy films of the 1980s
A list of comedy films released in the 1980s.

American films
1980s
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
British films
Comedy-horror
1981

An American Werewolf in London
Full Moon High
The Funhouse
Motel Hell1982

Basket Case
Big Meat Eater
Hysterical1983

Bloodbath at the House of Death
Frightmare1984

Bloodsuckers from Outer Space
Gremlins
The Toxic Avenger1985

Mr. Vampire
Once Bitten
Re-Animator
The Return of the Living Dead1986

Blood Hook
Class of Nuke 'Em High
Critters
Evil Laugh
From Beyond
Haunted Honeymoon
House
Little Shop of Horrors
Monster in the Closet
Night of the Creeps
The Seventh Curse
TerrorVision
Vamp1987

Bad Taste
A Chinese Ghost Story
Deathrow Gameshow
Evil Dead II
House II: The Second Story
I Was a Teenage Zombie
The Monster Squad1988

Beetlejuice
Curse of the Queerwolf
Dead Heat
Elvira: Mistress of the Dark
High Spirits
Hollywood Chainsaw Hookers
Killer Klowns from Outer Space
The Lair of the White Worm
My Best Friend Is a Vampire
Night of the Demons
Return of the Living Dead Part II
Waxwork1989

Cannibal Women in the Avocado Jungle of Death
Chopper Chicks in Zombietown
Cutting Class
Dr.Caligari
My Mom's a Werewolf
Out of the Dark
Over-sexed Rugsuckers from Mars
The Toxic Avenger Part II
The Toxic Avenger Part III: The Last Temptation of Toxie

Sci-fi comedy
Comedy-drama
Parody films
Passage 10:
F the Prom
F the Prom (also known as F*&% the Prom) is a 2017 American teen comedy film directed and produced by Benny Fine and written by him, Rafi Fine, and Molly Prather. In the film, two estranged best friends reunite due to unfortunate circumstances and conspire to destroy the senior prom. The film stars Danielle Campbell, Joel Courtney, Madelaine Petsch, and Cameron Palatas, with Meg DeLacy, Nicholle Tom, Richard Karn, Jill Cimorelli, Luke Bilyk, Brendan Calton, Michael Chey, Adan Allende, Diamond White, Cheri Oteri, and Ian Ziering in supporting roles. It was released online and on-demand on December 5, 2017.

Plot
Best friends Maddy Datner and Cole Reed attend their first day of high school at Charles Adams High. Cole is pantsed by a fellow student, revealing his white briefs and earning him the nickname "Tighty". Rather than stand up for him, Maddy decides not to intervene, and refuses to talk to Cole from that point on. Three years later, Maddy is at the top of the social hierarchy, and is dating the hottest boy at school, Kane. Cole, still shunned by his peers, has decided to apply to a prestigious art college.
Maddy catches her best friend Marissa making out with Kane. Revealing her disgust with Maddy's recent self-centered behavior, Marissa explains that she intends to be crowned Queen at the upcoming senior prom, which Maddy was expected to win. That night, Maddy goes to Cole's house, and they reconnect, reminiscing about their former friendship. Maddy suggests that they ruin the prom, enlisting Cole's friend Felicity to help. Felicity refuses to help at first, but when Maddy stands up for Cole against Kane, she agrees, and enlists the help of other social outcasts to execute the plan.
Maddy announces that she intends to take Cole to the prom, which greatly increases his status. Marissa tries to steal Cole's affections, but he rebuffs her. Kane, meanwhile, seeks forgiveness from Maddy. Felicity reveals that at one time, she and Kane were together, until Marissa manipulated Kane into dumping her for Maddy. As the date for prom approaches, Maddy forgives Kane and reneges on her commitment to take Cole as her date. Feeling hurt, Cole nearly calls the plan off, but his father intervenes. A former prom king himself, he has come to regret his behavior in high school, and believes his lack of humility was the reason why Cole's mom left them. He also believes that if his prom had been ruined, he would be more humble. Cole initially does not believe him, but his father urges him to humble the popular kids so they do not turn out like him, and he reluctantly agrees to go through with the plan.
The night of the prom, Felicity and the other conspirators rig the voting system, drug Marissa's punch, and turn the popular kids against each other using social media, including posting fake pornographic images of one boy. At the end of the night, Maddy is crowned prom queen, and is thus doused with tar—the punishment intended for Marissa—before one of the kids pulls the fire alarm. Marissa takes revenge on Cole for rejecting her by once again pantsing him in front of the crowd. Enraged, Cole delivers a lengthy speech in which he criticizes how the students have hurt each other in pursuit of popularity that is ultimately without meaning or worth.
Cole ignores Maddy for the rest of the school year due to her betrayal at prom and the fact that she could have helped him all the past years in high school, but instead stood idly by and watched as he was tormented by other students. After graduation, Felicity explains to Cole that the only reason he was accepted into the college he has been trying to attend is because Maddy sent his profile in to a recruiter. Unaware of this information, Cole stops by Maddy's house to give her a graphic novel of his drawings as both a thank you and a going-away present, since he leaves for school that weekend. He also confesses his feelings for her. Maddy reciprocates, and they kiss, but Cole ultimately rejects her offer of a relationship, wishing to remain friends instead.

Cast
Danielle Campbell as Madeline "Maddy" Datner
Joel Courtney as Cole Reed
Madelaine Petsch as Marissa
Cameron Palatas as Kane
Meg DeLacy as Felicity "City" Stufts / Stuffs
Jill Cimorelli as TIG / Abbey
Luke Bilyk as T.J.
Michael Chey as Sweats / Larry
Brendan Calton as Strings / Efraim
Adan Allende as Mutey / Emile
Ian Ziering as Ken Reed
Logan Shroyer as Young Ken
Cheri Oteri as Christine Datner
Mika Cigic as Young Christine
Richard Karn as Murphy Datner
Michael McLean as Young Murphy
Nicholle Tom as Principal Statszill
Diamond White as Rayna
Tom Phelan as Jerry
Eric Beckerman as Akiva
Ethan James Teague as Barry
Jeannie Elise Mai as Anna
Edward Zo as Yang
Lilly Singh as Miss Fallsburg (cameo appearance)