Passage 1:
Duke Louis of Mecklenburg-Schwerin
Ludwig, Hereditary Prince of Mecklenburg-Schwerin (German: Ludwig zu Mecklenburg; 6 August 1725 – 12 September 1778) was heir to the Dukedom of Mecklenburg-Schwerin for twenty-two years from 1756 to his death in 1778. He was also the father of the first Grand Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin, Frederick Francis I.

Early life
Louis was born at Grabow, Mecklenburg-Schwerin, third child and second son of Christian Ludwig II, Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin (1683–1756), (son of Frederick, Duke of Mecklenburg-Grabow and Landgravine Christine Wilhelmine of Hesse-Homburg) and his wife, Duchess Gustave Caroline of Mecklenburg-Strelitz (1694–1748), (daughter of Adolphus Frederick II, Duke of Mecklenburg-Strelitz and Duchess Marie of Mecklenburg-Güstrow).
After the death of the father in 1756, his brother Frederick succeed to the Dukedom. Since his brother died without any surviving issue he was appointed heir, but he died in 1778, and at the death of his brother in 1785 his son Frederick Francis, succeeded as the Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin who later became the Grand Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin.

Marriage
Louis married 13 May 1755 at Schwerin to Princess Charlotte Sophie of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld (1731–1810), daughter of Francis Josias, Duke of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld, and his wife, Princess Anna Sophie of Schwarzburg-Rudolstadt.
They had one son and one daughter:

Frederick Francis I, Grand Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin (10 December 1756 – 1 February 1837); married in 1775 Princess Louise of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg, had issue.
Duchess Sophia Frederica of Mecklenburg-Schwerin (24 August 1758 – 29 November 1794); married in 1774 to Frederick, Hereditary Prince of Denmark and Norway, had issue.

Ancestry
Passage 2:
Barthold A. Butenschøn Sr.
Hans Barthold Andresen Butenschøn (27 December 1877 – 28 November 1971) was a Norwegian businessperson.
He was born in Kristiania as a son of Nils August Andresen Butenschøn and Hanna Butenschøn, and grandson of Nicolay Andresen. Together with Mabel Anette Plahte (1877–1973, a daughter of Frithjof M. Plahte) he had the son Hans Barthold Andresen Butenschøn Jr. and was through him the father-in-law of Ragnhild Butenschøn and grandfather of Peter Butenschøn. Through his daughter Marie Claudine he was the father-in-law of Joakim Lehmkuhl, through his daughter Mabel Anette he was the father-in-law of Harald Astrup (a son of Sigurd Astrup) and through his daughter Nini Augusta he was the father-in-law of Ernst Torp.He took commerce school and agricultural school. He was hired in the family company N. A. Andresen & Co, and became a co-owner in 1910. He eventually became chief executive officer. The bank changed its name to Andresens Bank in 1913 and merged with Bergens Kreditbank in 1920. The merger was dissolved later in the 1920s. He was also a landowner, owning Nedre Skøyen farm and a lot of land in Enebakk. He chaired the board of Nydalens Compagnie from 1926, having not been a board member before that.He also chaired the supervisory council of Forsikringsselskapet Viking and Nedre Glommen salgsforening, and was a supervisory council member of Filharmonisk Selskap. He was a member of the gentlemen's club SK Fram since 1890, and was proclaimed a lifetime member in 1964.He was buried in Enebakk.
Passage 3:
Ludwig von Westphalen
Johann Ludwig von Westphalen (11 July 1770 – 3 March 1842) was a liberal Prussian civil servant and the father-in-law of Karl Marx.

Biography
Early life
Johann Ludwig von Westphalen was born on 11 July 1770 in Bornum am Elm. He was the youngest son of Philipp von Westphalen (1724–92), who himself was the son of a Blankenburg postmaster. Philipp von Westphalen had been ennobled in 1764 with the predicate Edler von Westphalen by Duke Ferdinand of Brunswick for his military services. He had served as the duke's de facto "chief of staff" during the Seven Years' War. Through his mother, Jane Wishart of Pittarrow, he was the descendant of many Scottish and European noble families.He received extensive education and spoke German and English, and read Latin, Greek, Italian, French and Spanish. He studied at the Collegium Carolinum, the forerunner of today's Braunschweig University of Technology, and at Göttingen.

Career
In 1794, he entered government's service in Brunswick. In 1797 he married Elisabeth von Veltheim, who bore him four children. In 1804 he entered the government service of the Duchy of Brunswick and Lunenburg (Wolfenbüttel).
With the establishment of the Napoleonic state in Westphalia (the Kingdom of Westphalia) in 1807, he entered its service. He was likely motivated in this by a desire to see reforms carried out. He did, however, oppose the French dominance of the local government, and other policies, and for his critique he was eventually arrested by orders from Louis-Nicolas Davout and imprisoned in the fortress of Gifhorn. In the same year, he lost his first wife. In the summer of 1809 Louis was appointed sub-prefect of Salzwedel, where three years later in 1812 he married Karoline Heubel; they had three children. After Salzwedel was again under Prussian administration, in 1816 Ludwig von Westphalen was transferred to the newly established regional government in Trier.

Personal life
It was in Trier that he met and befriended Heinrich Marx, the father of Karl Marx. The children of the respective families, in particular Jenny and Edgar von Westphalen, and Sophie and Karl Marx, became close friends as well. In 1836, Jenny von Westphalen and Karl Marx became engaged; at first secretly but Ludwig approved the marriage in 1837, even though some saw Marx, who was both middle class and younger than her, as well as of Jewish descent, as an inappropriate partner for the noble daughter. In fact, Ludwig was seen as the mentor and role model of Karl Marx, who referred to him as a "dear fatherly friend". Ludwig filled Marx with enthusiasm for the romantic school and read him Homer and Shakespeare, who remained Marx's favorite authors all his life. Marx also read Voltaire and Racine with Ludwig. Ludwig devoted much of his time to the young Marx and the two went for intellectual walks through "the hills and woods" of the neighbourhood. It was Ludwig who first introduced Marx to the personality and socialist teachings of Saint-Simon. Marx dedicated his doctoral thesis "The Difference Between the Democritean and Epicurean Philosophy of Nature" written in 1841 to Ludwig in a most effusive manner in which Marx wrote "You, my fatherly friend, have always been for me the living proof that idealism is no illusion, but the true reality" In 1842, Marx was present at the deathbed of Ludwig von Westphalen. Jenny and Karl became married in 1843, a year after Ludwig's death.
He was the father of Ferdinand von Westphalen, a conservative and reactionary Prussian Minister of the Interior.

Death
He died on 3 March 1842 in Trier.
Passage 4:
Ogawa Mataji
Viscount Ogawa Mataji (小川又次, 22 August 1848 – 20 October 1909) was a general in the early Imperial Japanese Army. He was also the father-in-law of Field Marshal Gen Sugiyama.

Life and military career
Ogawa was born to a samurai family; his father was a retainer to the daimyō of Kokura Domain, in what is now Kitakyushu, Fukuoka. He studied rangaku under Egawa Hidetatsu and fought as a Kokura samurai against the forces of Chōshū Domain during the Bakumatsu period.
After the Meiji Restoration, Ogawa attended the Imperial Japanese Army Academy and was commissioned as a second lieutenant in January 1871 and promoted to lieutenant in February 1874. He participated in the Taiwan Expedition of April 1874. Afterwards, he served with the IJA 1st Infantry Regiment under the Tokyo Garrison, and as a battalion commander with the IJA 13th Infantry Regiment from April 1876. From February 1877, he fought in the Satsuma Rebellion, but was wounded in combat in April and promoted to major the same month.
In March 1878, Ogawa was Deputy Chief-of-Staff to the Kumamoto Garrison. He was sent as a military attaché to Beijing from April to July 1880. In February 1881, he was promoted to lieutenant-colonel and chief of staff of the Osaka Garrison. In March 1882, he was chief of staff of the Hiroshima Garrison. Promoted to colonel in October 1884, he was assigned the IJA 8th Infantry Regiment. In May 1885, he joined the Imperial Japanese Army General Staff Office. German General Jakob Meckel, hired by the Japanese government as a foreign advisor and instructor in the Imperial Japanese Army Academy highly praised Ogawa and fellow colonel Kodama Gentarō as the two most outstanding officers in the Imperial Japanese Army. Ogawa was especially noted for his abilities as a military strategist and planner, and earned the sobriquet “the modern Kenshin") from General Kawakami Soroku.

First Sino-Japanese War
Ogawa was promoted to major general in June 1890, and given command of the IJA 4th Infantry Brigade, followed by command of the 1st Guards Brigade. At the start of the First Sino-Japanese War in August 1894, he was chief of staff of the Japanese First Army. In August 1895, he was elevated to the kazoku peerage with the title of danshaku (baron). He commanded the 2nd Guards Brigade from January 1896 and was subsequently promoted to lieutenant general in April 1897, assuming command of the IJA 4th Infantry Division. In May 1903, he was awarded the Order of the Sacred Treasures, first class.

Russo-Japanese War
During the Russo-Japanese War of 1904-1905, Ogawa retained command of the IJA 4th Division under the Japanese Second Army of General Oku Yasukata.  The division was in combat at the Battle of Nanshan, Battle of Telissu and Battle of Liaoyang. At the Battle of Liaoyang, Ogawa was injured in combat, and forced to relinquish his command and return to Tokyo. In January 1905, he was promoted to general, but took a medical leave from December 1905. He was awarded the Order of the Golden Kite, 2nd class in 1906.  In September 1907 he was elevated to viscount (shishaku) He officially retired in November.
Ogawa died on 20 October 1909 due to peritonitis after being hospitalized for dysentery. His grave is located at Aoyama Cemetery in Tokyo, and he also has a grave in his hometown of Kokura.

Decorations
1885 –  Order of the Rising Sun, 3rd class  
1895 –  Order of the Sacred Treasure, 2nd class 
1895 –  Order of the Rising Sun, 2nd class 
1895 –  Order of the Golden Kite, 3rd class 
1903 –  Grand Cordon of the Order of the Sacred Treasure 
1906 –  Grand Cordon of the Order of the Rising Sun
1906 –  Order of the Golden Kite, 2nd class
Passage 5:
John Adams (merchant)
John Adams (1672 or 1673 – c. 1745) was an American-born Canadian merchant and member of the Nova Scotia Council. He was the father-in-law of Henry Newton.

Biography
Adams was born in Boston in either 1672 or 1673 to John and Avis Adams. Growing up as a petty merchant, Adams joined Sir Charles Hobby's New England regiment, participating in the capture of Port-Royal in 1710. Shortly thereafter, Adams settled in Annapolis Royal, Nova Scotia, returning to civilian life. There, he traded manufactured goods with the province's Acadian and Native Americans, and took up the role of a real estate agent and contractor. Adams joined the Executive Council of Nova Scotia on 28 April 1720, holding his position there for 20 years; the records show that few served as long as he did. He also held several other public positions in the province. Adams was appointed a notary public and deputy collector of customs for Annapolis Royal in 1725, and he was commissioned a justice of the peace in March 1727.Around the mid-1720s, Adams' poor eyesight began to fail, leading to his near-blindness in 1730. After this, he was less active in community activities and trade. Adams petitioned to the king for a pension several times, but failed. He blamed his disability on over-exposure to the sun during an Indian attack on Annapolis Royal in 1724. In December 1739, Lieutenant Governor Lawrence Armstrong died. With the absence of Major Mascarene to take Armstrong's place, Adams became the new president of the council and head of the civil government. (Alexander Cosby was also vying for the position.) In a meeting on 22 March 1740, with the return of Mascarene, the councilors declared that he was the council's rightful president. This turn of events led Adams to retire to Boston in late August or early September 1740, where he stayed for the rest of his life. He died some time after 1745.

Notes
Passage 6:
John VI, Duke of Mecklenburg
John VI, Duke of Mecklenburg (1439–1474) was a Duke of Mecklenburg.

Life
John was the second son of Henry IV, Duke of Mecklenburg, and his wife Dorothea, daughter of Elector Frederick I of Brandenburg.
His earliest documented official act (jointly with the father) was in 1451.  In 1464 he ruled an apanage of several districts jointly with his brother Albert VI, but did not participate actively in administering them.
In 1472, John VI was engaged to Sophie, the daughter of Duke Eric II of Pomerania.  The marriage was set to be celebrated in 1474.  However, John VI died before the marriage took place.  The exact date of his death is unknown; he is last mentioned in a document dated 20 May 1474.
His last illness was contracted on a journey to Franconia to visit his uncle Elector Albrecht III Achilles of Brandenburg.  In Kulmbach, he was infected with the plague and died.  He was probably buried in Poor Clares monastery in Hof.

External links
Genealogical table of the House of Mecklenburg
Passage 7:
Duke William of Mecklenburg-Schwerin
Duke Frederick William Nicholas of Mecklenburg-Schwerin (German: Friedrich Wilhelm Nicolas; 5 March 1827 – 28 July 1879) was the second son of Paul Frederick, Grand Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin, and his wife Princess Alexandrine, daughter of King Frederick William III of Prussia.

Life
He enlisted in the Prussian Army and became commander of the 6th (Brandenburg) Cuirassiers "Emperor Nicholas I of Russia". William had a reputation for drunkenness and a dissolute character. On two occasions he was deprived of his command in the Prussian army and he proposed marriage to the celebrated ballerina Marie Taglioni; consequently he was generally considered to be the "black sheep" of the family. Under family pressure, on 9 December 1865, he married Alexandrine of Prussia, daughter of his uncle Albert of Prussia and Marianne of Orange-Nassau. William settled with his wife at Bellevue Palace in Berlin. The marriage was unhappy and the couple had an only child: Charlotte (1868-1944) who married Prince Heinrich XVIII Reuss of Köstritz.
William took part in the Austro-Prussian War of 1866 as a major general in command of a cavalry brigade in the First Army. He managed, with difficulty, to secure a command in the Prussian Army during the Franco-Prussian War, leading the 6th Cavalry Division, but he was wounded on 9 September 1870 in Laon. As a result, he was long absent from the front and he showed a great lack of energy at the Battle of Le Mans. In 1873 he became commander of the 22nd Division in Kassel, completed in 1874 but it was only an honorary position. He died on 28 July 1879.

Issue
By his wife, he had an only daughter:

Duchess Charlotte of Meclemburgo-Schwerin (7 November 1868-20 Dicember 1944). She married firstly Henry XVII of Reuss-Köstritz and secondly Robert Schmidt.

Honours
He received the following orders and decorations:

Ancestors


== Notes ==
Passage 8:
Prince Wilhelm of Prussia (1906–1940)
Prince Wilhelm Friedrich Franz Joseph Christian Olaf of Prussia (4 July 1906 – 26 May 1940) was the eldest child of Wilhelm, German Crown Prince, and Duchess Cecilie of Mecklenburg-Schwerin. At his birth, he was second in line to the German throne and was expected to succeed to the throne after the deaths of his grandfather, Emperor Wilhelm II, and his father, Crown Prince Wilhelm. Both, however, outlived him.

Early life and childhood
Wilhelm was born on 4 July 1906 at the Hohenzollern family's private summer residence, Marmorpalais, or Marble Palace, near Potsdam, where his parents were residing until their own home, Schloss Cecilienhof, could be completed. His father was Crown Prince Wilhelm, the eldest son and heir to the German Emperor, Wilhelm II. His mother was Duchess Cecilie of Mecklenburg-Schwerin. Emperor Franz Joseph of Austria was one of the Prince's godfathers.
The selection of a nanny for Wilhelm and his younger brother, Louis Ferdinand (born in 1907) caused considerable distress within the family.On his tenth birthday in 1916, Wilhelm was made a lieutenant in the 1st Guards Regiment, and was given the Order of the Black Eagle by his grandfather. Two years later, when he was only twelve, the German monarchy was abolished. Wilhelm and his family remained in Germany, though his grandfather, the former Emperor, went into exile in the Netherlands. The former Crown Prince and his family remained in Potsdam, where Wilhelm and his younger brothers attended the local gymnasium.

After graduating from secondary school, Wilhelm went on to study at the Universities of Königsberg, Munich and Bonn. In 1926, while a student at the University of Bonn, Wilhelm joined the Borussia Corps, a student organization of which his father, grandfather, and other members of the Prussian royal family were members.

Marriage and children
While a student at Bonn, Wilhelm fell in love with a fellow student, Dorothea von Salviati (10 September 1907 – 7 May 1972). Her parents were Alexander Hermann Heinrich August von Salviati and Helene "Ella" Crasemann (of the well-established Hamburg merchant family, Crasemann). Her maternal grandfather was the Hamburg parliamentarian Gustav August Rudolph Crasemann.
Wilhelm's grandfather did not approve of the marriage of a member of the minor nobility with the second in line to the German throne. At the time, the former Kaiser still believed in the possibility of a Hohenzollern restoration, and he would not permit his grandson to make an unequal marriage. Wilhelm told his grandson, "Remember, there is every possible form of horse. We are thoroughbreds, however, and when we conclude a marriage such as with Fräulein von Salviati, it produces mongrels, and that cannot be allowed to happen."However, Wilhelm was determined to marry Dorothea. He renounced any rights to the succession for himself and his future children in 1933. Wilhelm and Dorothea married on 3 June 1933 in Bonn. They had two daughters. In 1940, the ex-Emperor recognized the marriage as dynastic and the girls were accorded the style of Princesses of Prussia, although their father was not restored to his former place in the putative line of succession,

Princess Felicitas Cecilie Alexandrine Helene Dorothea of Prussia, (7 June 1934 – 1 August 2009), married Dinnies von der Osten (1929–1998) on 12 September 1958 and they were divorced in 1972, with issue. She married secondly Jörg von Nostitz-Wallwitz (b. 1937), with issue.
Princess Christa Friederike Alexandrine Viktoria of Prussia, (31 October 1936) she married Peter von Assis Liebes (1926–1967), son of Martin Liebes and Countess Clementine von Montgelas on 24 March 1960, without issue.

Military services
During the Weimar Republic, Wilhelm inadvertently caused a public scandal by attending Army manoeuvres in the uniform of the old Imperial First Foot Guards without first seeking government approval. The commander of the Reichswehr, Hans von Seeckt, was forced to resign as a result. The Oster conspiracy of 1938 sought to restore Wilhelm to the throne.
At the beginning of World War II, Wilhelm was among a number of princes from the former German monarchies who enlisted to serve in the Wehrmacht, the unified armed forces of Germany.

Death and reaction
In May 1940, Wilhelm took part in the invasion of France. He was wounded during the fighting in Valenciennes and died in a field hospital in Nivelles on 26 May 1940. His funeral service was held at the Church of Peace, and he was buried in the Hohenzollern family mausoleum in the Antique Temple in Sanssouci Park. The service drew over 50,000 mourners, by far the largest unofficial public turnout during Nazi rule in Germany.Shortly after Wilhelm's death, a decree known as the Prinzenerlaß, or Prince's Decree, was issued, barring all members of the former German royal houses from service in the Wehrmacht.

Ancestry
Passage 9:
Duchess Gustave Caroline of Mecklenburg-Strelitz
Duchess Gustave Caroline of Mecklenburg-Strelitz (12 July 1694 – 13 April 1748) was a daughter of Adolphus Frederick II, Duke of Mecklenburg and Princess Marie of Mecklenburg-Güstrow.

Family
Gustave Caroline was the fourth daughter and youngest child of Adolphus Frederick II, Duke of Mecklenburg by his first wife Princess Maria of Mecklenburg. She was a younger sister of Adolphus Frederick III, Duke of Mecklenburg. Through her father's third marriage, she was an aunt of Queen Charlotte of the United Kingdom.

Marriage
On 13 November 1714, Gustave Caroline married her cousin Christian Ludwig of Mecklenburg. He was the third eldest son of Frederick, Duke of Mecklenburg-Grabow and his wife Princess Christine Wilhelmine of Hesse-Homburg. Christian Ludwig succeeded as Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin in 1747, the year before Gustave Caroline's death.
They had five children:

Frederick II, Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin (1717–1785); married Duchess Louise Frederica of Württemberg
Louis (1725–78); married Princess Charlotte Sophie of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld (1731–1810).  They were the parents of Frederick Francis I, Grand Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin.
Ulrike Sofie (1723–1813)
Luise (1730)
Amalie (1732–1775)

Ancestry
Passage 10:
Princess Alexandrine of Prussia (1842–1906)
Princess Friederike Wilhelmine Luise Elisabeth Alexandrine of Prussia (1 February 1842 – 26 March 1906) was a member of the House of Hohenzollern as the daughter of Prince Albert of Prussia and his wife Princess Marianne of the Netherlands.

Family and early life
Alexandrine ('Addy') was the youngest child born to Prince Albert of Prussia and his first wife Princess Marianne of the Netherlands. She was named after her aunt (and later mother-in-law) the Grand Duchess of Mecklenburg-Schwerin. She had two elder surviving siblings, Princess Charlotte (and Prince Albert. Her parents' marriage was dissolved on 28 March 1849. Her father later remarried in 1853 to one of the court maids-of-honor, Rosalie von Rauch, who was created Countess of Hohenau. The couple had two sons. Their mother also remarried morganatically to a former coachman, producing issue with Johannes van Rossum.
Due to the troubled marriage of her parents, Alexandrine was to all intents and purposes the adopted daughter of her otherwise childless uncle and aunt, King Frederick William IV of Prussia and Queen Elisabeth Ludovika, and became their ward. They took Alexandrine to live with them, bringing her up as their own offspring.

Marriage
Marriage prospects
As a young woman, Alexandrine was considered as a potential bride for the one-year older Albert Edward, Prince of Wales (the future Edward VII of the United Kingdom), but was not considered "clever or pretty" enough by his sister Crown Princess Victoria of Prussia (‘Vicky’). The prince married Alexandra of Denmark instead. Despite her comment, Vicky had a fondness for Alexandrine, writing to her mother that she was "such an excellent girl and much admired here". There were also financial advantages to a marriage to Alexandrine; she already had one million dollars through her mother, and would have even more wealth when she married. Consequently, Vicky tried again to marry her off to another British relative, Prince George, Duke of Cambridge. Nothing came of this either, however.

Wedding
On 9 December 1865, Alexandrine married her much-older cousin Duke William of Mecklenburg-Schwerin. He was a younger son of Paul Frederick, Grand Duke of Mecklenburg and Alexandrine's aunt and namesake Princess Alexandrine of Prussia. Though the marriage was meant to give her financial security in the future, it was certainly not a love match; Alexandrine cried during the entire wedding ceremony. Vicky described the wedding to her mother, 
"The wedding was celebrated with the greatest pomp, but had something of the solemnity of a funeral about it – nothing gay, festive or bridal. The only thing that made a pleasing impression on me was dear Addy herself, who although she cried the whole time, had such a dignified and touching appearance that I never saw her look so well. She went through it all with the most perfect tenue – though I never saw her smile once. She did not look a bit like a bride but I must say very elegant and distinguee... The bridegroom's tenance looked as evil as possible the whole time. I looked in vain for a trace of softness of feeling".
 Furthermore, William had a reputation for drunkenness and a dissolute character, so it was surprising that the exceedingly pious and recently widowed Queen Elisabeth gave her consent to the match. On two occasions William had been deprived of his command in the Prussian army and had recently proposed marriage to the celebrated ballerina Marie Taglioni; consequently he was generally considered to be the "black sheep" of the family. Regardless, the Queen granted her permission, endowing her with a grand trousseau of lavish clothing and jewelry. Her other uncle Emperor Wilhelm I gave her an opulent diamond necklace, while her mother Princess Marianne gave her a necklace of Siberian amethysts as well as an emerald diadem.

Marriage and later life
William's older brother Frederick Francis already had many children from his two marriages, so there was no chance of William and Alexandrine succeeding to the throne of Mecklenburg-Schwerin. During their marriage, the couple lived at Bellevue Palace in Berlin; Alexandrine saw little of Mecklenburg, her husband's native country. The marriage was unhappy, and she tried to escape several times, only to be forced back by pressure from her powerful Aunt Alexandrine. William managed with difficulty to secure an unimportant command in the Prussian army during the Franco-Prussian War. He was badly injured from an explosion during the war, but continued to live on until 1879.

After her husband's death, Alexandrine dedicated her life to her daughter, and played very little part in public life. Alexandrine died on 26 March 1906 at Schloss Marley, near Potsdam, Brandenburg, Germany. Bellevue Palace was next occupied by Prince Eitel Friedrich of Prussia and his new bride Duchess Sophia Charlotte of Oldenburg.

Issue
By her husband, she had an only daughter:

Duchess Charlotte of Mecklenburg-Schwerin (7 November 1868 - 20 December 1944). She married firstly Henry XVII of Reuss-Köstritz and secondly Robert Schmidt.

Ancestry