Passage 1:
Eleanor of Aragon, Countess of Toulouse
Eleanor of Aragon, Countess of Toulouse (1182–1226) was a daughter of King Alfonso II of Aragon and Sancha of Castile.
She married Raymond VI, Count of Toulouse.

Life
According to the Ex Gestis Comitum Barcinonensium, she was the second daughter and fourth of nine children of the troubadour king, Alfonso II of Aragon and his wife Sancha of Castile. She had for older brothers Pierre II the Catholic and Alphonse II, Count of Provence and Forcalquier, and for sisters Constance, first queen of Hungary, then empress by her marriage with Frederick II, and Sancie, countess of Toulouse.
According to the Crónica of San Juan de la Peña, her brother Peter II sealed the union of Eleanor, with Raymond VI of Toulouse, Duke of Narbonne and Marquis of Provence, in order to put an end to the dissensions with the counts of Toulouse.
Raymond VI was the eldest son of Raymond V and Constance of France, daughter of King Louis VI and Adelaide de Maurienne. Eleanor was Raymond VI's 6th wife, having divorced an unknown daughter and sole heiress of Emperor Isaac Komnenos of Cyprus just two years earlier. Raymond and Eleanor did not have children.
By this marriage she became countess of Toulouse which would suffer the pangs of the war and the Albigensian Crusade, in the following years. The crusade was initiated by Pope Innocent III and headed by the French Crown against Toulouse and Catharism.
Passage 2:
Berengaria of Barcelona
Berengaria of Barcelona (1116 – 15 January 1149), called in Spanish Berenguela de Barcelona and also known as Berengaria of Provence, was Queen consort of Castile, León and Galicia. She was the daughter of Ramon Berenguer III, Count of Barcelona, and Douce I, Countess of Provence.On 10/17 November 1128 in Saldaña, Berengaria married Alfonso VII, King of Castile, León and Galicia.Their children were:

Sancho III of Castile (1134–1158)
Ramon, living 1136, died in infancy
Ferdinand II of León (1137–1188)
Constance (c. 1138–1160), married Louis VII of France
Sancha (c. 1139–1179), married Sancho VI of Navarre
García (c. 1142–1145/6)
Alfonso (c. 1144–c. 1149)According to a description, "She was a very beautiful and extremely graceful young girl who loved chastity and truth and all God-fearing people."She died in Palencia, and was buried at the Cathedral of Santiago de Compostela.

In fiction
A parody version of queen Berengaria and king Alfonso is presented in the tragicomedy La venganza de Don Mendo by Pedro Muñoz Seca.
In its film version, Lina Canalejas played Berengaria.
Passage 3:
Sancha of León
Sancha of León (c. 1018 – 8 November 1067) was a princess and queen of León. She was married to Ferdinand I, the Count of Castile who later became King of León after having killed Sancha's brother in battle. She and her husband commissioned the Crucifix of Ferdinand and Sancha.

Life
Sancha was a daughter of Alfonso V of León by his first wife, Elvira Menéndez. She became a secular abbess of the Monastery of San Pelayo.In 1029, a political marriage was arranged between her and count García Sánchez of Castile. However, having traveled to León for the marriage, García was assassinated by a group of disgruntled vassals. In 1032, Sancha was married to García's nephew and successor, Ferdinand I of Castile, when the latter was 11 years old.At the Battle of Tamarón in 1037 Ferdinand killed Sancha's brother Bermudo III of León, making Sancha the heir and allowing Ferdinand to have himself crowned King of León. Sancha's own position as queen of León is unclear and contradictory. She succeeded to the throne of León as the heir of her brother and in her "own right" but despite this, she is not clearly referred to as queen regnant, and after the death of her husband the throne passed to her son, despite the fact that she was still alive.Following Ferdinand's death in 1065 and the division of her husband's kingdom, she is said to have played the futile role of peacemaker among her sons.She was a devout Catholic, who, with her husband, commissioned the crucifix that bears their name as a gift for the Basilica of San Isidoro.

Children
Sancha had five children:

Urraca of Zamora
Sancho II of León and Castile
Elvira of Toro
Alfonso VI of León and Castile
García II of Galicia

Death and burial
She died in the city of León on 8 November 1067. She was interred in the Royal Pantheon of the Basilica of San Isidoro, along with her parents, brother, husband, and her children Elvira, Urraca and García.
The following Latin inscription was carved in the tomb in which were deposited the remains of Queen Sancha:
"H. R. SANCIA REGINA TOTIUS HISPANIAE, MAGNI REGIS FERDINANDI UXOR. FILIA REGIS ADEFONSI, QUI POPULAVIT LEGIONEM POS DESTRUCTIONEM ALMANZOR. OBIIT ERA MCVIIII. III N. M."
Which translates to:

"Here lies Sancha, Queen of All Spain, wife of the great king Ferdinand and daughter of king Alfonso, who populated León after the destruction of Almanzor. Died in the one thousand one hundred eighth era on the third nones of May [5 May 1071]."
Passage 4:
Isabella of Navarre, Viscountess of Rohan
Isabel d'Albret of Navarre (1512–aft. 1560) was a princess of Navarre. She was the daughter of John III of Navarre (died 1516) and queen Catherine I of Navarre. The same year she was born, the greater part of Navarre was conquered by Aragon, and she was raised in France. 
In 1528, there were unsuccessful suggestions for a marriage between her and the Hungarian king John Zápolya, an ally of the king of France. In 16 August 1532, Isabel married René I de Rohan, Viscount of Rohan (d. 1552).Isabel became the godmother of her grand nephew Henry III of Navarre, whom she carried to his baptism in 1554. Isabel came to feel sympathy for Calvinism early on, but did not convert during the lifetime of her spouse, who remained a Catholic. In 1556, she met admiral de Coligny, and was present in Béarn in 1557 when queen Joan III of Navarre introduced the Reformation in Navarre. She converted to Protestantism in 1558, and her Castle of Blain became a center of Protestantism in the area. It was at her Castle of Blain that the first Breton church was organized. In Blain, she received the Protestant reformer d'Andelot, who had a mission in Nantes and held the first Protestant sermon there with the reformers Fleurer and Loiseleur de Villiers. In 1560, she was granted personal religious freedom for herself and her household on her own domains by the king of France.

Issue
Isabel and Rene had:

Françoise de Rohan
Louis de Rohan, seigneur de Gié
Henri I, Viscount of Rohan, 19th Viscount of Rohan, married Françoise of Tournemine
Jean de Rohan, married Diane of Barbançon
René II, de Rohan, 20th Viscount of Rohan, married Catherine of Parthenay
Passage 5:
Beatrice of Navarre, Countess of La Marche
Beatrice of Navarre (1392–1412/1415) was a daughter of Charles III of Navarre and his wife, Eleanor of Castile.

Biography
She was a member of the House of Évreux. Her surviving siblings were Blanche I of Navarre, wife of John II of Aragon, and Isabella of Navarre, wife of John IV of Armagnac.
In 1406 in Pamplona, Beatrice married James II, Count of La Marche, son of John I, Count of La Marche, and Catherine of Vendôme. The couple had three children:

Isabelle (1408 – aft. 1445), a nun at Besançon
Marie (1410 – aft. 1445), a nun at Amiens
Eleanor of Bourbon-La Marche (1412 – aft. 21 August 1464), married Bernard d'Armagnac, Count of Pardiac (d. 1462)It is not certain when Beatrice died. She died between 1412 and 1415, possibly while giving birth to her daughter Eleanor in 1412.


== Ancestry ==
Passage 6:
René I, Viscount of Rohan
René I de Rohan, (1516–1552) 18th Viscount of Rohan, Viscount and Prince de Léon, and Marquis de Blain  married Isabella of Navarre daughter of jure uxoris King John III of Navarre and Catherine of Navarre, Queen of Navarre.

Life
René I was the son of Pierre II de Rohan and Anne de Rohan, who upon her death transmitted the titles of her brother, Jacques de Rohan, who died without heirs.
Queen Margaret of Navarre, sister of Francis I of France served as Guardian of René I de Rohan, and arranged for René I de Rohan to marry her sister-in-law Isabella. This introduced Protestantism into the House of Rohan. A family who would fight on Protestant side in the Huguenot rebellions.
René I de Rohan died in 1552 fighting on the German frontier during the Siege of Metz.

Children
René I de Rohan and Isabella of Navarre had:

Françoise de Rohan, married to Jacques de Savoie, duc de Nemours
Louis de Rohan, seigneur de Gié
Henri I, Viscount of Rohan, 19th Viscount of Rohan, married Françoise of Tournemine
Jean de Rohan, married Diane of Barbançon
René II, de Rohan, 20th Viscount of Rohan, married Catherine of Parthenay
Passage 7:
Joan of Navarre (regent)
Joan of Navarre (French: Jeanne, Spanish: Juana; 1382 – July 1413) was the heir presumptive to the throne of Navarre in 1402–1413, and regent of Navarre in the absence of her father in 1409–1411.

Life
Joan was the eldest child of King Charles III of Navarre and his wife Eleanor, daughter of King Henry II of Castile. Her younger sisters were Blanche, Beatrice, and Isabella.Joan was originally betrothed in 1401 to Martin I of Sicily, the heir to the throne of Aragón. He was widower of Maria of Sicily, who had not given him surviving children. Plans were however changed and Martin married Joan's sister Blanche. Joan herself married at Olite on 12 November 1402 to John, Viscount of Castellbò, the heir to the County of Foix in France. The couple were married for eleven years but failed to produce any children. A month after her wedding, Joan was recognized as heir presumptive to the throne of Navarre at Olite on 3 December 1402. There the Estates of Navarre swore an oath to Joan and John as their future sovereigns. This was after the early death of Joan's only brothers, Charles and Louis, in quick succession earlier in the year.In 1404, Joan contracted smallpox and was treated by the Jewish doctor Abraham Comineto. During her regency she had her own personal salaried doctor, Salomon Gotheynno, also a Jew.Joan governed Navarre in the name of her father while he was in Paris between 1409 and 1411. In 1412 she became Countess of Foix when her husband succeeded his father in the county. She died in the Principality of Béarn in July 1413, childless. Her younger sister Blanche became heir presumptive to the throne of Navarre, and succeeded their father Charles III on 8 September 1425.
Passage 8:
Sancha of Castile, Queen of Navarre
Sancha of Castile (c. 1139–1179) was daughter of Alfonso VII of León and Castile and his first wife Berengaria of Barcelona. Sancha was the fifth child of seven born to her parents.
On 20 July 1153, Sancha married Sancho VI of Navarre. He is responsible for bringing his kingdom into the political orbit of Europe.  As "la reyna de Navarra, filla del emperador" (the queen of Navarre, daughter of the Emperor) her August 1179 death was reported in the Annales Toledanos.

Issue
Sancho and Sancha's children were:

Sancho VII
Ferdinand
Ramiro, Bishop of Pamplona
Berengaria (died 1230 or 1232), married King Richard I of England
Constance
Blanche, married Count Theobald III of Champagne, then acted as regent of Champagne, and finally as regent of Navarre
TheresaSancha was buried in Pamplona.

Family tree
Passage 9:
Eleanor of Castile, Queen of Navarre
Eleanor of Castile (after 1363 – 1415/1416) was Queen of Navarre by marriage to King Charles III of Navarre. She acted as regent of Navarre during the absence of her spouse in France in 1397–1398, 1403–1406 and 1409–1411.

Biography
Early life
She was the daughter of King Henry II of Castile and his wife Juana Manuel of Castile, who was descended from a cadet branch of the Castilian royal house. Eleanor was a member of the House of Trastámara.
Eleanor was involved with plans to marry King Ferdinand I of Portugal in 1371, however he refused the match as he had secretly married the noblewoman Leonor Telles de Menezes.
She was betrothed in Burgos in 1373 to Prince Charles, the heir of King Charles II of Navarre. The couple was married at Soria in May 1375. A testament dated at Burgos on 29 May 1374 shows that King Henry II bequeathed property to his daughter Eleanor as a part of her dowry.

The Years in Castile
The marriage of Charles and Eleanor was marked by a number of unusual marital disputes. In 1388, Eleanor asked at a meeting between her husband and her brother John I of Castile for permission to retire for some time to her homeland of Castile in order to recover from an illness caught in Navarre. She believed this course of action would be best for her health. The two young daughters in her care at the time went with her. During their absence from Navarre, Eleanor and her children resided in Valladolid. By 1390, Eleanor bore two more daughters to Charles, and two years later, her husband requested her to return to Navarre because both of them needed to be crowned King and Queen of Navarre upon the death of her father-in-law King Charles II. Eleanor's brother King John supported the request of Charles III. Eleanor did not consent, claiming that she was ill-treated in Navarre and believed members of the Navarrese nobility wished to poison her. As a result, Eleanor remained in Castile while her husband was crowned in February 1390 in Pamplona. By the end of the 1390s, Eleanor had born her husband six daughters, all of whom survived infancy, but no sons. For this reason, Eleanor handed her oldest daughter Joanna over to Charles III to be groomed for her future role as ruler of the Kingdom of Navarre.
On 9 October 1390, Eleanor's brother John died and was succeeded by his minor son Henry as king of Castile. Charles then requested Eleanor's return to Navarre again, but she refused once more. Eleanor opposed her nephew Henry's accession and she formed the League of Lillo along with her illegitimate half-brother Fadrique and her cousin Pedro. King Henry opposed the League, besieged Eleanor in her castle at Roa around mid-1394, and obliged her to return to her husband in February 1395.

Queen of Navarre
Eleanor became very involved in the political life of Navarre upon her return. Her relationship with her husband improved, and they had the long-awaited sons Charles and Louis. Both died young, however. On 3 June 1403, her coronation as Queen of Navarre took place in Pamplona. Upon several occasions when Charles stayed in France, Eleanor took to the role of regent. She also helped to maintain good relations between Navarre and Castile. As a result of these good relations, members of the Castillian nobility, including the Duke of Benavente and members of the powerful families of Dávalos, Mendoza and Zuñiga, settled in Navarre.
Upon the couple's absences, their daughter Joanna acted as regent, as she was heiress to the kingdom. Joanna died in 1413 without issue and in the lifetime of both her parents, therefore the succession turned to their second daughter Blanche, who would eventually succeed as Queen of Navarre upon Charles' death.
There is confusion surrounding Eleanor's death. She is believed to have died at Olite on 27 February 1415 or at Pamplona 5 March 1416. Her husband died in 1425, and they were buried together at Pamplona in the Cathedral of Santa María la Real.

Issue
Eleanor and Charles had eight children, five of which lived to adulthood:

Joanna (1382–1413), married John I, Count of Foix, no issue.
Blanche (1385-1441), married John II of Aragon, became Queen of Navarre and had issue.
Maria (1388–1406), died unmarried and childless.
Margaret (1390–1403), died young
Beatrice (1392–1412), married to James II, Count of La Marche, and had issue.
Isabella (1395–1435), married in 1419 to John IV of Armagnac, had issue; they were great-great grandparents of King Henry IV of France.
Charles (1397–1402), Prince of Viana, died young
Louis (1402), Prince of Viana, died young
Passage 10:
Blanche of Navarre, Countess of Champagne
Blanche of Navarre (c. 1177–1229) was Countess of Champagne by marriage to Theobald III, Count of Champagne, and regent of Champagne during the minority of her son Theobald I of Navarre between 1201 and 1222.

Life
Early life
She was the youngest daughter of Sancho VI of Navarre and Sancha of Castile, who died in 1179, about two years after Blanche's birth. Her eldest brother, Sancho VII, succeeded their father and was the last agnatic descendant of the first dynasty of kings of Navarre, the Pamplona dynasty, dying childless. Her elder sister Berengaria married Richard I of England.
Blanche married Theobald III, Count of Champagne, on 1 July 1199 at Chartres, when she was 22-years-old and he was 20-years-old.

Regent of Champagne
Theobald III died young on 24 May 1201, leaving her pregnant. When she gave birth to a son on 30 May 1201, he immediately became Theobald IV, Count of Champagne (Theobald I of Navarre). Blanche ruled the county as regent until Theobald turned 21 years old in 1222. The regency was plagued by a number of difficulties. Blanche's brother-in-law, count Henry II had left behind a great deal of debt. Henry was the elder son but had transferred the land to his younger brother, Theobald III. 
Furthermore, their son Theobald IV's right to the succession of Champagne was challenged by Henry's daughter Philippa and her husband, Erard I of Brienne, Count of Ramerupt and one of the more powerful Champagne nobles.  The conflict with the Briennes broke into open warfare in 1215, in what became known as the Champagne War of Succession, and was not resolved until after Theobald came of age in 1222. After the death of her husband, however, Blanche had taken immediate action to secure the county of Champagne for her son. She found King Philip at Sens and paid him homage, which was the first homage rendered by a countess. She did this to maintain wardship and the right over her lands and in exchange she promised to not marry without the king's permission. Prince Louis then proclaimed in a letter to Jean of Brienne, that neither he nor King Philip would hear a challenge against Theobald IV's claim until he was twenty-one. In this letter, Prince Louis also confirmed that Henry II did indeed transfer the land to his brother. At that time Theobald and Blanche bought out their rights for a substantial monetary payment. Blanche had also arranged the dowry of Henry II's elder daughter Alice of Champagne, when she married the young Hugh I of Cyprus. In the 1230s, in order to settle with Alice, Theobald IV had to sell his overlordship over the counties of Blois, Sancerre, and Châteaudun to Louis IX of France.
With her regency completed, in 1222 Blanche withdrew to the Cistercian convent of Argensolles, whose foundation she had funded herself, for her retirement.

Later years
Since some barons suspected Theobald for having a hand in the death of Louis VIII (in November 1226), Blanche of Castile withdrew his invitation to the coronation of Louis IX and proffered it to Blanche instead.Blanche died on 13 March 1229, seven years after the end of her regency, at the age of 52. In her will she left 5 marks of gold to the Cathedral of Reims, which was used to build a statue to contain the Holy Milk of the Virgin.After Blanche's death, her brother in retirement remained as King of Navarre and her son Theobald continued as Count of Champagne.  Their eldest sister, Berengaria of Navarre, Queen of England (widow of Richard the Lionheart), died without issue in 1230, leaving Sancho as the sole surviving child of Sancho VI. When he died in 1234, Blanca's son Theobald IV of Champagne was recognized as the next King of Navarre.  Theobald had married twice during Blanche's lifetime and had one daughter by the time of her death, who was also named Blanche.

Children

Blanche had two children with Theobald III of Champagne:

Marie – Blanche is noted as having borne an older daughter named Marie to Theobald III before his death in May 1201. References to this Marie in documentation are scant, but as Blanche was married in July 1199, Marie would have been under two years old at the time of her father's death. One of the conditions of Blanche's treaty with Philip II confirming her son's inheritance was that Marie had to be sent away to be raised in the royal court at Paris.
Theobald I of Navarre.


== Notes ==