Passage 1:
De Sacia Mooers
De Sacia Mooers (November 19, 1888 – January 11, 1960) was a film actress, disputably from Los Angeles, California. She appeared in over one hundred movies in the silent film era. She was perhaps best known as the "Blonde Vamp" for her role in The Blonde Vampire in 1922. Her career ended with talking films.

Early life
Newspaper accounts of the era differ as to her birthplace. At the time, it was common for the various studios to exaggerate or fabricate an actor's biography to make them seem more exotic and interesting to the general public. One report contends that she was a Los Angeles native and a member of the California Saville family. This is borne out by the fact that she was billed as De Sacia Saville in the serial The Son of Tarzan (1920). The Savilles were among California's pioneer settlers. Another article says that Mooers was from New York. Yet another source has her birthplace as Michigan. A 1927 movie review described her ancestry as French-Dutch.

Movie career
She began her career with Samuel Goldwyn Productions. At first she was known as De Sacia Saville. In the comedy Potash and Perlmutter (1923), she was cast with Martha Mansfield and Ben Lyon.
Mooers began working on a series of vamp roles starting with The Blonde Vampire in 1922. Mooers was writing a book at the time. It was due to be published when the vamp film was released. A natural blond, Mooers defied the stereotype of a vamp having to have dark hair.
Mooers appeared in over one hundred movies in the silent film era. Among her co-stars were Tom Mix and Warner Baxter. Mooers made Lonesome Ladies (1927), a First National Pictures comedy-drama about romance and marital strife. The screenplay was written by Lenore Coffee and the film featured Lewis Stone and Anna Q. Nilsson. Her final movie was a western, The Arizona Kid (1930). It stars Baxter, Carole Lombard, and Mona Maris.
Mooers also performed on stage in New York City.

Personal life
In 1917, Mooers became the wife of Edward "Eddie" Demarest Mooers, owner of the Yellow Aster gold mine in Randsburg, California, the richest gold mine in the United States. Mr. Mooers' family disapproved of her career from the time she left her home on Alvarado Terrace, barely out of her teens. An agreement was made in which representatives of the wealthy husband's family accompanied him to Mooers' studio once a month. They observed her behavior for signs of changes. The union between actress and mining scion became fractured and collapsed after the inquisitors decided Mooers had become less "lovely, charming, and conventional". The couple were divorced in May 1925.
Mooers had a relationship with Allan Rock, who produced "The Blonde Vampire." Mooers signed as a witness on the contract that Rock made with "America's First Supermodel", Audrey Munson, that led to Munson's syndicated 1921 newspaper series and its spin-off movie "Heedless Moths" (1921) Mooers later married actor Harry Lewis. She was a member of the Woman's Breakfast Club and director of the McKinley Home For Boys.

Searcher
In October 1920 Mooers was enticed by St. Louis Cardinals owner, Warren Fuzzy Anderson to locate his nephew, Jimmy Anderson. Fuzzy Anderson was once a partner of Henry Ford. He handled foreign distribution for Ford Motor Company parts. He had no other close relatives to leave his wealth to aside from Jimmie, who left St. Louis, Missouri in 1918.
Mooers resided at the Canterbury Inn on Westlake Avenue in Los Angeles while she performed her investigation. She was promised a diamond necklace by the baseball owner if she could find Jimmie. The nephew was rumored to have relocated to Hollywood and become a stunt man in motion pictures.

Death
In 1960 De Sacia Mooers died following a six-week illness in Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center. She was seventy-two years old. Her residence was at 1523 North McCadden Place, Los Angeles.

Partial filmography
The Challenge (1922)
The Blonde Vampire (1922)
Potash and Perlmutter (1923)
Restless Wives (1924)
It Is the Law (1924)
The Average Woman (1924)
Any Woman (1925)
Forbidden Waters (1926)
Broadway Nights (1927)
Lonesome Ladies (1927)
Back to Liberty (1927)
Tongues of Scandal (1927)
By Whose Hand? (1927)
Confessions of a Wife (1928)
Shanghai Rose (1929)
Just Off Broadway (1929)
The Arizona Kid (1930)
Passage 2:
Joseph De Grasse
Joseph Louis De Grasse (May 4, 1873 – May 25, 1940) was a Canadian film director. Born in Bathurst, New Brunswick, he was the elder brother of actor Sam De Grasse.

Biography
Joseph De Grasse had studied and was a first-class graduate of accounting and he began his career as a journalist, but soon became enamored with the theater and took work as a stage actor. In 1903, he quit his full-time job as the City of Boston's bookkeeper to pursue acting. In 1910, he acted in his first motion picture and although he would appear as an actor in 13 films, and write 2 screenplays, his real interest was in directing.
While working in Hollywood for Universal Pictures, De Grasse met and married one of the few female directors working at the time, Ida May Park (1879–1954). In 1915, he became a founding member of the Motion Picture Directors Association, a forerunner to today's Directors Guild of America.
During his career he directed a total of 86 films. In 1924, actor Lon Chaney said of the De Grasses:

Joe and Sam De Grasses are two of the most talented personalities in today's film industry. Joe, a very skilled actor, is also the consummate director, firm in his demands yet gentle in his way of dealing with many different temperaments to be found in the movie industry. Sam is the only actor I know who can horrify an audience without make-up and without grotesque posturing and playing to the camera. He is the only actor I know who pulls teeth on the set in between takes. A rare pair, they have given the industry not one but two dimensions.
Joseph De Grasse died in Eagle Rock, California; he collapsed on a street while walking, and was taken to hospital where he was pronounced dead. The cause of his death was a heart attack.

Filmography
Director
Actor
The Place Beyond the Winds (1916) - Anton Farwell
Triumph (1917) - Man at Theatre (uncredited)
After the War (1918)
So Big (1924) - Simeon Peake
The Cowboy Kid (1928) - John Grover
The Drunkard (1935) - Mr. Miller
The Dawn Rider (1935) - Dad Mason
The Adventures of Frank Merriwell (1936, Serial) - Dr. Cummings (uncredited) (final film role)

Preservation
The three surviving reels of De Grasse's film Triumph were restored by the Academy Film Archive in 2012.

See also
Other Canadian pioneers in early Hollywood
Passage 3:
The Piper's Price
The Piper's Price is a 1917 silent drama film directed by Joe De Grasse and starring Lon Chaney, William Stowell and Dorothy Phillips. It was the first in a series of films co-starring William Stowell and Dorothy Phillips together. The screenplay was written by Ida May Park, based on the short story by Nancy Mann Waddel Woodrow (aka Mrs. Wilson Woodrow). The film was released in the U.K. as Storm and Sunshine. The film is today considered lost. A still exists showing Lon Chaney in the role of Billy Kilmartin.

Plot
Ralph Hadley's ex-wife, Jessica, is a shrewd businesswoman, while his new wife, Amy, is the perfect homemaker. Billy Kilmartin (Lon Chaney), an attorney, has sought to woo Jessica for many years, and now that she is divorced from Ralph, he doubles down on his efforts to win her. At a stockholders meeting, Jessica makes several intelligent suggestions that win both the approval of the company and Ralph's admiration. Ralph wants Jessica back and takes her to lunch. Amy soon hears gossip about her husband dating his ex-wife and she worries about losing him to the other woman.
Amy learns that she is pregnant, but decides to keep it a secret from Ralph. She goes to Ralph's office and is introduced to Jessica at a meeting there, and after Jessica leaves, Amy starts a fight with Ralph. Ralph considers the whole thing entirely innocent, but soon realizes that it's not just a harmless fling. He is indeed falling in love with his ex-wife.
Amy goes to Jessica, telling her that she and Ralph are going to have a child together, and Jessica realizes she must stop seeing Ralph. But when Ralph finally demands to see her, she tells him that she and Billy Kilmartin were married that morning. Ralph goes home, prepared to commit suicide, when the doctor enters and congratulates him on the birth of his child. Ralph realizes that Amy was his true love all the time,  and the happy family are reunited.

Cast
William Stowell as Ralph Hadley
Dorothy Phillips as Amy Hadley, Ralph's wife
Maude George as Jessica Hadley, Ralph's ex-wife (credited as Maud George)
Lon Chaney as Billy Kilmartin
Claire Du Brey as Jessica's Maid

Reception
"Such conduct on the part of the two offenders against common decency should put them outside the pale of sympathy, and the second wife exhibits such a lamentable weakness of character during the affair that pity for her should be mingled with contempt. It cannot be denied, however, that there exists a grade of mind which will follow the fortunes of these three humans with the deepest interest and herald the ending as a triumph for justice and truth. An important factor in bringing about this result is the excellence of the acting by the entire cast." ---Moving Picture World"A well treated domestic drama is THE PIPER'S PRICE, quite conventional when you get down to the bottom of things, but original on the surface, due to a few new twists...Dorothy Phillips, as Amy, gives an emotional performance...while Lon Chaney has the only other part of importance." ---Motion Picture News
Passage 4:
Daisy Irani
Daisy Irani may refer to:

Daisy Irani (actress), an Indian actress
Daisy Irani (television personality), an Indian-born Singaporean actress and TV personality
Passage 5:
Razif Onn
Razif Onn is a professional football coach from Singapore.

Warriors FC
First taking the reins of Warriors FC in 2015 right before the end of the season, he was in charge of them for five games. Calculated in total, he lost three, won one, and drew one despite winning the first game, a 2–0 victory over Hougang United. In the end, they finished fifth and the youth coach asseverated that it was unequivocally 'unacceptable' for a club like Warriors FC. On their last fixture, Geylang International beat them 6-0 as well.After Jorg Steinebrunner's unheralded departure in May 2016, Onn was appointed coach of Warriors FC;there was already speculation about Onn's return anyway. His first match would be a round 13 clash opposing Tampines Rovers; he managed to hold them to a scoreless draw. Unlike his predecessor, he managed to get 18 points from 13 matches, and recorded only one defeat in his first five games in charge which signified an improvement.However, he lost all his cup matches in 2016 by exiting the Singapore Cup and losing three times in the League Cup.In the 2017 season, he improved well in terms of the Warriors FC style of play bringing back the lights of Shahril Ishak and Baihakki Khaizan. He finished the season 5th as a first full season manager at Warriors FC. At the end of the season, Razif were reassigned as Warriors FC head of youth development, the head coach position later taken by Mirko Grabovac.
Passage 6:
The Blonde from Singapore
The Blonde from Singapore (also released as Hot Pearls) is a 1941 American adventure film directed by Edward Dmytryk and starring Florence Rice.

Cast
Florence Rice as Mary Brooks
Leif Erickson as Terry Prescott
Gordon Jones as 'Waffles' Billings
Don Beddoe as Sgt. Burns
Alexander D'Arcy as Prince Sali
Adele Rowland as Sultana
Lumsden Hare as Reginald Belvin
Richard Terry as Tada
Emory Parnell as Capt. Nelson
Uncredited actors include Filipino Hollywood actor Rudy Robles as the servant.
Passage 7:
The Blonde from Peking
The Blonde from Peking (French: La blonde de Pékin, Italian: La bionda di Pechino, German: Die Blonde von Peking, also known as Peking Blonde) is a 1967 French-Italian-German adventure film written and directed by Nicolas Gessner. It is loosely based on the 1966 novel You Have Yourself a Deal by James Hadley Chase.

Cast
Mireille Darc as Erika Olsen / Christine
Claudio Brook as Garland / Gandler
Giorgia Moll  as Jinny / Nurse Peggy
Edward G. Robinson as Douglas
Pascale Roberts as  Monica Davis
Carl Studer as Captain  Hardy
Jean-Jacques Delbo as  Olsen
Valéry Inkijinoff  as  Fang O Kung
Yves Elliot as  Jackson
Tony Young  as  Yen Hay Sun
Guido Celano as De Luca
Joe Warfield  as Doctor
Philippe March as Bijoutier
Françoise Brion as  Erika Olsen #2
Hellmut Lange  as  Malik
Werner Schwier  as  Smernoff
Passage 8:
Edward Dmytryk
Edward Dmytryk (September 4, 1908 – July 1, 1999) was a Canadian-born American film director and editor. He was known for his 1940s noir films and received an Oscar nomination for Best Director for Crossfire (1947). In 1947, he was named as one of the Hollywood Ten, a group of blacklisted film industry professionals who refused to testify to the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) in their investigations during the McCarthy-era Red Scare. They all served time in prison for contempt of Congress. In 1951, however, Dmytryk testified to the HUAC and named individuals, including Arnold Manoff, whose careers were then destroyed for many years, to rehabilitate his own career.  First hired again by independent producer Stanley Kramer in 1952, Dmytryk is likely best known for directing The Caine Mutiny (1954), a critical and commercial success. The second-highest-grossing film of the year, it was nominated for Best Picture and several other awards at the 1955 Oscars. Dmytryk was nominated for a Directors Guild Award for Outstanding Directorial Achievement in Motion Pictures.

Background
Dmytryk was born on September 4, 1908, in Grand Forks, British Columbia, Canada.  His Ukrainian immigrant parents were Frances (Berezowski) and Michael Dmytryk, a severe disciplinarian who bounced among jobs as truck driver, smelter worker, and motorman.  The family moved to San Francisco, California, and then to Los Angeles. After his mother died, his father remarried.

Career
Dmytryk worked as a messenger at Famous Players-Lasky (forerunner of Paramount Pictures) for $6 per week while attending Hollywood High School. He progressed to projectionist, film editor, and by age 31, a director and a naturalized citizen of the United States.

1930–1940s
Dmytryk worked in the editing department on films such as The Dance of Life (1929), Only Saps Work (1930), The Royal Family of Broadway (1930), Make Me a Star (1932), The Phantom President (1932), and If I Had a Million (1932). He helped edit two Leo McCarey movies: Duck Soup (1933) and Six of a Kind (1934). He edited College Rhythm (1934), followed by Leo McCarey's Ruggles of Red Gap (1935).
Dmytryk made his directorial debut with The Hawk (1935), a low-budget, independent Western. He returned to editing duties at Paramount, but was assigned to B films:Too Many Parents (1936), Three Cheers for Love (1936), Three Married Men (1936), Easy to Take (1936), Murder Goes to College (1937), Turn Off the Moon (1937), Double or Nothing (1937) with Bing Crosby, and That Navy Spirit (1937).  Dmytryk also edited Bulldog Drummond's Peril (1938) and Prison Farm (1938). He moved his way to A movies with Zaza (1938), directed by George Cukor. McCarey asked him over to RKO to edit Love Affair (1939). He returned to Paramount to edit the Bob Hope comedy Some Like It Hot (1939).
Dmytryk did some uncredited directing on Million Dollar Legs (1939) with Betty Grable. This encouraged Paramount to allow him to direct Television Spy (1939). He followed it with Emergency Squad (1940), Golden Gloves (1940), and Mystery Sea Raider (1940) with Carole Landis.
Dmytryk went to Monogram Pictures to direct the musical Her First Romance (1940).
He went over to Columbia to direct for its B picture unit: The Devil Commands (1941) with Boris Karloff, Under Age (1941), Broadway Ahead (1941), Hot Pearls (1941), Secrets of the Lone Wolf (1941), Confessions of Boston Blackie (1941), and Counter-Espionage (1942), a "Lone Wolf" movie.
Dmytryk signed a contract to RKO, where he continued to direct B movies, starting with Seven Miles from Alcatraz (1942). However, he then made Hitler's Children (1943), which turned out to be a massive "sleeper" hit, earning over $3 million.The one-time success did not immediately change his career, and he remained in B movies such as The Falcon Strikes Back (1943), and then went to Universal for Captive Wild Woman (1943). Back at RKO, he directed Behind the Rising Sun (1943), a Hitler's Children-style thriller about the Japanese. It was another box-office sensation, and Dmytryk was promoted to A films.Dmytryk directed Ginger Rogers, RKO's biggest star, in the melodrama Tender Comrade (1943), which was a huge hit. He followed it with  the popular film noir Murder, My Sweet (1944), adapted from Raymond Chandler's novel Farewell, My Lovely by John Paxton and produced by Adrian Scott; the star was Dick Powell, whose performance as Philip Marlow completely revitalized Powell's career. Dymtryk did Back to Bataan (1945), a war film starring John Wayne, then he was reunited with Powell, Paxton, and Scott for another film noir, Cornered (1945). He did Till the End of Time (1946), a drama about soldiers coming back from the war, which was a big hit, and went to England to make So Well Remembered (1947) with Paxton and Scott.
Dmytryk, Scott, and Paxton then collaborated on the hugely successful thriller Crossfire (1947), for which Dmytryk received a Best Director Oscar nomination. The success of his pictures and recognition from his peers established him as RKO's leading director.

Hollywood Ten
After the war, many Americans were alarmed by the Cold War actions of the Soviet Union in central and western Europe, magnified by reports of covert communist activity in the U.S.. Fueled by the accusations of U.S. Senator Joseph McCarthy, the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) investigated Communist Party influence in the film industry as part of a period known as McCarthism (or the "Second Red Scare"). Dmytryk was among those called to testify about it before HUAC in 1947. Dmytryk briefly had been a Communist Party member in 1944 and 1945. He was persuaded by his former party associates to join nine other Hollywood figures in a public refusal to testify. The Hollywood Ten were cited for contempt of Congress and sentenced to prison terms. Dmytryk was fired from RKO.
Dmytryk fled to England and unofficially was ostracized by the American film industry and his former friends in it. In England, he made two films for producer Nat Bronstein: a thriller Obsession (1949), and Give Us This Day (1949), a neo-realistic movie sympathetic to the working man, based on the novel Christ in Concrete. The latter movie, which was successful in Europe, was released as Christ in Concrete in the United States and quickly suppressed. When his U.S. passport expired, Dmytryk returned to the United States, where he was arrested and imprisoned. He served four months and 17 days in Millspoint Prison, West Virginia.
On April 25, 1951, Dmytryk appeared before HUAC for the second time and answered all questions. He spoke of his own brief party membership in 1945 and named party members, including seven film directors: Arnold Manoff, Frank Tuttle, Herbert Biberman, Jack Berry, Bernard Vorhaus, Jules Dassin, and Michael Gordon, and 15 others. He said that he was prompted to change his mind by the Alger Hiss case, the discovery of spies in the U.S. and Canada, and the invasion of South Korea. He said that John Howard Lawson, Adrian Scott, Albert Maltz, and others had pressured him to include communist elements in his films. His testimony damaged several court cases that others of the "Ten" had filed.He recounted his experiences of the period in his 1996 book, Odd Man Out: A Memoir of the Hollywood Ten.

1950s–1980s
Dmytryk's first film after his testimony was Mutiny (1952) from the King Brothers. Independent American producer Stanley Kramer then hired Dmytryk to direct a trio of low-budget films for Kramer's company, which were released through Columbia: The Sniper (1952), Eight Iron Men (1952) and The Juggler (1953) with Kirk Douglas. In between, he directed Three Lives (1953), a short film for the United Jewish Appeal.Kramer then selected Dmytryk to direct Humphrey Bogart and Van Johnson in Columbia's The Caine Mutiny (1954), a World War II naval drama adapted from Herman Wouk's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel.  It proved to be a great critical and commercial success, ranking second among high-grossing films of the year, and in 1955, received Oscar nominations for Best Picture and Best Actor.Dmytryk went over to 20th Century Fox, where he directed Spencer Tracy and Robert Wagner in Broken Lance (1954). He went to England to do The End of the Affair (1955) with Deborah Kerr and Van Johnson for Columbia, then returned to Fox to make Soldier of Fortune (1955) with Clark Gable, The Left Hand of God (1955) with Bogart, and The Mountain (1956) with Tracy and Wagner. Dmytryk produced the latter.He went to MGM, then under his old RKO boss Dore Schary, to make Raintree County (1957) with Montgomery Clift and Elizabeth Taylor. At Fox, he did The Young Lions (1958), a popular war film with Clift and Marlon Brando, then the Western Warlock (1959) (which he produced), and a flop remake of The Blue Angel (1959).Dmytryk made Walk on the Wild Side (1962) for producer Charles Feldman. He produced and directed The Reluctant Saint (1962). He had a huge hit with The Carpetbaggers (1964) from the novel by Harold Robbins for producer Joseph E. Levine. He was given Where Love Has Gone (1964), another Robbins adaptation by Levine. This was followed by the Gregory Peck thriller Mirage (1965), the William Holden Western Alvarez Kelly (1966), a war film Anzio, (1968) and Shalako (1968), a Western with Sean Connery and Brigitte Bardot.Dmytryk wrote and directed Bluebeard (1972) with Richard Burton. He did the little-seen He Is My Brother (1975) and The 'Human' Factor (1975). His last film was Not Only Strangers (1979).In the 1980s, Dmytryk entered academic life. He taught about film and directing at the University of Texas at Austin and at the University of Southern California film school. He wrote several books on the art of film-making (such as On Film Editing and On Screenwriting). He also appeared on the lecture circuit, speaking at various colleges and theaters, such as the Orson Welles Cinema.

Personal life and death
Dmytryk married his second wife, actress Jean Porter, on May 12, 1948. He died at age 90 on July 1, 1999, in Encino, California, from heart and kidney failure. He was buried at the Forest Lawn Memorial Park, in Hollywood.

Legacy and honors
1948: Best Director (Oscar nomination) for Crossfire
1955: Best Picture (Oscars nomination) for The Caine Mutiny
1955: Directors Guild Award (nomination) for Outstanding Directorial Achievement in Motion Pictures

Filmography
This filmography lists all the feature films directed by Dmytryk and may be complete:

See also
The Hollywood Ten documentary
Passage 9:
Grace Ciao
Grace Ciao is a fashion illustrator from Singapore.

Early life
Ciao was born in Singapore.

Education
Ciao graduated with a degree in business from National University of Singapore.

Career
Ciao is known for her illustrations using real flower petals and watercolor painting.Ciao grew up developing an interest in fashion, trying to recreate the designs she saw on TV and in magazines. She began using petals for illustration after wanting to preserve a red rose that was given to her. Her designs are mainly dresses, using natural form of each flower on her illustrations, so each piece has an element of realism as well as fantasy. She has created illustrations for companies such as Chanel, Christian Dior, and Fendi.
Passage 10:
An American in Buenos Aires
An American in Buenos Aires (Spanish: Una Americana en Buenos Aires) is a 1961  Argentine film directed by George Cahan. The film was based on the story by Antonio de Lara. The film starred Mamie Van Doren and Jean-Pierre Aumont. It is also known by the alternative title of The Blonde from Buenos Aires.
The movie was Van Doren's last film for three years. She didn't return to the screen until 1964, playing the lead role in The Candidate.

Cast
Mamie Van Doren
Jean-Pierre Aumont
Carlos Estrada
Catherine Zabó
Juan Carlos Mareco
Nathán Pinzón
Guido Gorgatti
Chela Ruíz

External links
Una Americana en Buenos Aires at IMDb