Passage 1:
Baer House (Little Rock, Arkansas)
The Baer House is a historic house located at 1010 Rock Street in Little Rock, Arkansas.

Description and history
It is a simple two-story L-shaped masonry structure, with a cross-gable roof configuration and a porch at the crook of the L. The front-facing gable has Craftsman-style brackets and half-timbering effects. The porch has a shed roof, and is supported by groups of short box columns set on tall brick piers, with a brick balustrade. The house was designed by the architect Charles L. Thompson, and was built about 1915.The house was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on December 22, 1982.

See also
National Register of Historic Places listings in Little Rock, Arkansas
Passage 2:
Soyol Erdene
Soyol Erdene (Mongolian: Соёл Эрдэнэ, [ˈsɔjɔɮ ˈɛrdən]) is the first rock band of Mongolia.

Name
"Soyol Erdene" is the name of a melodious popular song of 1920s which the band played on an electric guitar. The approximate meaning is "Cultural jewel".

History
The band was established in late 1971. The Minister of Culture of that time, famous novelist Ch. Lodoidamba called four young musicians and said: "England has a band The Beatles of four young men. Why shouldn't we have a similar band?" The four young musicians, who had recently graduated from the School of Music and Dance in Ulaanbaatar (nowadays College of Music and Dance) as yatga (ятга) players, established a rock band. The members were Tserenbat (drums), Erdenekhuyag (guitar), Batsaikhan (guitar) and Naranbaatar (keyboard). Later members were Galsanbat (guitar-solo), Zundari (bass), Bayar (vocal), Damdinsuren (guitar), Jargalsaikhan (drums), Jargalsaikhan (guitar/vocal), B. Tsolmon (drums). Among the more recent members were D. Enkhbold (guitar-solo) and Kh. Bulgan (keyboard). Soyol Erdene also performed for female singers Rentsenkhand, Nandintsetseg, Dulamsuren, Uranchimeg, Nasantogtokh, and Ariunaa.
During socialism, the band worked under the administration of the State Philharmony which also supervised a symphony orchestra and the jazz band Bayan Mongol.
The first compositions of the band were Mongolian folk songs in a rock style arrangement as well as songs written by the members of the band. They often used poems of famous Mongolian writers.
The rock band was frequently criticized by the MPRP censorship for promotion of the Western musical style and Western fashion.
Soyol Erdene won the gold medal at the 10th World Festival of Youth and Students in 1973.Soyol Erdene's only full album, Soyol Erdene, was re-released in 2019 by the Everland Music Group.

Repertoire
Among the most popular songs created by the members of Soyol Erdene during its merseybeat period in the early 1970s were "Setgeliin jigüür" (The wings of the Mood), "Zürhnii aizam" (Melody of the Heart), and "Uchraliin uyanga" (Melody of Love) by Zundari, Ankhnii khairiin duu (Song of the First Love) and Hüleelt (Waiting) by Jargalsaikhan.G, glam rock 6:45 (Six forty-five), Tursun udriin duu (Happy Birthday's song), 18 nas mini namaig buu orkhioch (Don’t leave me, my childhood), Burged (The Eagle), rock composition Chinggis khaan by Jargalsaikhan.D,
The most popular rock interpretations of Mongolian folk songs were "Damdin" and "Tonjoo" (Western Mongolian folk song). Western Mongolian folklore fitted well with the rock arrangement.
The most renowned instrumental compositions of Soyol Erdene were "Soyol Erdene", "Sansriin khölög" (Spaceship composed by Baatarsukh.S 1969), Tsenkher zalaa (a yatga solo that became a jingle for weather forecasts composed by Baatarsukh.S 1969) and "Ankhnii tsas" (The First Snow) by Naranbaatar, rock composition "Bid" (We are) by Jargalsaikhan.D

See also
Music of Mongolia
Passage 3:
Central Congregational Church (Fall River, Massachusetts)
Central Congregational Church is a historic church at 100 Rock Street in Fall River, Massachusetts.

History
The church was built in 1875 and added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1983. It was designed by Boston architects Hartwell & Swasey, who also designed several other notable buildings in Fall River, including the Academy Building and several city fire stations. It was well known in its early days for being the home church of Lizzie Borden and her family.
In the 1990s and 2000s, the church and abbey were renovated into the International Culinary Academy, with the Abbey Grille and classrooms in the abbey and a large function hall in the main church. The Academy and restaurant closed in March 2009.
In 2019 the church became a venue for events. Weddings and other large events. It is now called The Historic Abbey at 100 Rock Street.
The Hook & Hastings organ was built some time ago. This Hook & Hastings organ is one of the only ones in the area. The organ is located in the main hall.

In popular culture
It was the site used, in the spring of 1993, for the performance segment of the video for "Cryin'" by Aerosmith, who had played the area in the early days. The church was also featured on the first-season episode of Haunted Towns where paranormal team Tennessee Wraith Chasers were the first ones to investigate it, trying to communicate with the ghost of Lizzie Borden who taught Sunday school here.

See also
National Register of Historic Places listings in Fall River, Massachusetts
Massasoit Fire House No. 5
Pocasset Firehouse No. 7
Passage 4:
De León
De León or de León or De Leon may refer to:

De Leon, Texas, USA
De Leon Independent School District of De Leon, Texas
Manuel Márquez de León International Airport, the airport serving La Paz, Baja California Sur, Mexico
De León (surname), people with the surname De León, de León or De Leon
Passage 5:
Mission Rock station
Mission Rock station is a light rail station on the Muni Metro T Third Street line, located in the median of Third Street at Mission Rock Street in the Mission Bay neighborhood of San Francisco, California. The station opened with the T Third Street line on January 13, 2007. It has two side platforms; the northbound platform is north of Mission Rock Street, and the southbound platform south of Mission Rock Street, which allows trains to pass through the intersection before stopping at the station.
The stop is also served by the route 22 bus, plus the T Bus and 91 Owl bus routes, which provide service along the T Third Street line during the early morning and late night hours respectively when trains do not operate.
Passage 6:
Rock Street Journal
Rock Street Journal or RSJ is a monthly magazine covering the rock scene in India and South Asia. It was started in January 1993 in Allahabad by Amit Saigal and Shena Gamat Saigal after they noted the lack of a support system for Indian rock musicians. The magazine has grown in popularity ever since and is now published from Delhi. It organizes the yearly Great Indian Rock Festival (GIR) to promote original music of new and upcoming rock bands in India.

History
Amit Saigal and Sam Eric Lal used to perform in a band called Impact in the 1980s. They realized that there was no support system in place for new and upcoming rock musicians and bands in India. They only had college fests as platforms. According to Sam, "The community was large and strong but very fragmented at the same time. When we thought about this, we decided to come up with RSJ which would provide news about rock music anywhere in the country." And thus RSJ was born to bring a sense of community among these struggling musicians, the first issue published from Allahabad in January 1993. It was initially planned as subscription-only magazine. Amit promoted the magazine in college festivals but only sold a handful of subscriptions at that time. The magazine has grown substantially since then, and has a circulation of 1, 42,000 copies per issue.

Features
RSJ regularly covers professional and college festival concerts throughout India. It also publishes reviews of new music albums, new bands, old bands and everything that falls under the gamut of the Indian and the international rock scene, they also publish reviews of Indian Bands along with extensive reviews and interviews of International bands. Its website has an extensive database of over a thousand rock bands and musicians hailing from the Indian subcontinent, including desi rock bands from elsewhere in the world. The website also contains the official forums frequented by thousands of Indian rock fans. Between 2004 and 2007, a thread called the "Deadman show" was the most visited and read thread in the forum. Currently boasting of a registered database of over 40,000.
Over the years RSJ changed the overall approach to the content and now covers an array of varied music and concerts. The magazine also regularly does free CD releases every month.
The latest initiative however is the Breaking Boundaries Split EP series which features music from across the globe and renowned bands. The first edition featured Textures, New Way Home and Indian metal legends Bhayanak Maut, Scribe and Undying Inc. The second edition is rumored to feature bands like Tesseract, Fell Silent and hardcore band Norris from Canada.

Concerts and music festivals
RSJ organizes the Great Indian Rock Festival each year showcasing the best among upcoming talent in rock and roll in the Indian subcontinent. The first GIR was in 1997 in Kolkata. It is usually held in Delhi in the month of February, in the 11th year of GIR; Norway's biggest Black Metal Act Enslaved were headlining. In addition, RSJ has organized several other concerts including the Concert for Tibet in 2003 in Dharamsala, and the Brotherhood of Rock in Shillong.
RSJ has also conceptualised and executed events like the Pubrockfest and RocktoberFest which are now regular events in Delhi, however the PubrockFest went national this year going to 7 cities and with over 30 gigs in all. This year the Pubrockfest is bigger going to 20 cities with 60 gigs and also features two international artistes from Australia and Canada respectively.
2007 also saw the inception of a new festival called LiveAlive - Experience Jazz, Blues and Beyond, this festival focused on music like jazz, blues and other experimental music.
Every year in November, Jazz fans in Delhi get a treat in the form of The Jazz Utsav which is organised by Capital Jazz in association with Rock Street Journal, the Jazz Utsav features some of the biggest acts in Jazz from across the globe.
Over the years the number of festivals have grown and the key festivals that RSJ does are
1. Great Indian Rock
2. Live Alive
3. Pubrockfest
4. Rocktoberfest
5. Global Groove
6. Jazz Utsav

See also
Indian rock
Passage 7:
Delisle
Delisle or De Lisle or de Lisle may refer to:

People
Delisle (surname)
DeLisle Worrell, a former governor of the Central Bank of Barbados

Places
CanadaDelisle, Quebec, a former municipality that is now part of Alma, in RCM of Lac-Saint-Jean-Est, in administrative region of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, in Quebec
Richmond Gulf (French: Lac Guillaume-Delisle), a waterbody in Nunavik, in administrative region of Nord-du-Québec, in Quebec, Canada
Sector Delisle, a sector of Alma, Quebec, in Lac-Saint-Jean-Est Regional County Municipality, in administrative region of Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, in Quebec
Delisle, Saskatchewan, a town in SaskatchewanUnited StatesDeLisle, Mississippi, a census-designated place
Delisle, Ohio, an unincorporated communityThe MoonMons Delisle, a mountain on the moon
Delisle (crater), a lunar crater

Other uses
Delisle scale, a temperature scale
De Lisle carbine, a World War II silent rifle
De Lisle College, a Roman Catholic school in Leicestershire, England
De Lisle (novel), an 1828 novel by Elizabeth Caroline Grey

See also
Lisle (disambiguation)
Passage 8:
DeLorenzo
DeLorenzo or De Lorenzo or de Lorenzo is an Italian surname. It may refer to:

Giovanni de Lorenzo Larciani (1484-1527), Italian painterBart DeLorenzo (born 1965), American theater director
Dana DeLorenzo (born 1983), American actress
Enrico de Lorenzo, Italian bobsledder who competed during the 1960s
Francesco De Lorenzo (born 1938), Italian doctor and politician
Italo de Lorenzo, Italian bobsledder who competed in the mid-1960s
Leonardo De Lorenzo (1875–1962), Italian musician
Michael DeLorenzo (born 1959), American actor
Tista De Lorenzo (born 1934), Australian football player
Victor DeLorenzo (born 1954), American musicianJax DeLorenzo (born 2014)
Dog

See also
De Lorenzo's Tomato Pies, a pizzeria in New Jersey
Lorenzo (name)
Passage 9:
De AS
De AS (Anarcho-Socialist) (also called De AS) is a Dutch anarchist quarterly, published by De AS Foundation in Moerkapelle. The first issue appeared in December 1972.
De AS appears in the form of special issues and once per year in the form of a Yearbook Anarchism. Sometimes, these two appear together, as is the case with number 156 (Winter 2006). Sometimes there are also double numbers. The themes followed by the 13th Yearbook Anarchism concern uprooting of Europe. The aim of De AS is to develop an anarchist vision regarding the social environment (from politics to art) as well a critique of the point of view of anarchism.
From 1973 to 1983, Anton Levien Constandse served as an editor for the magazine. As of May 2009, Marius de Geus, Jaap van der Laan, Wim de Lobel and Hans Ramaer edited the magazine.
Passage 10:
Everybody's Magazine
Everybody's Magazine was an American magazine published from 1899 to 1929. The magazine was headquartered in New York City.

History and profile
The magazine was founded by Philadelphia merchant John Wanamaker in 1899, though he had little role in its actual operations. Initially, the magazine published a combination of non-fiction articles and new fiction stories.  By 1926, the magazine had become a pulp fiction magazine and in 1929 it merged with Romance magazine.
In 1903, it had a circulation of 150,000, and Wanamaker sold the magazine for $75,000 to a group headed by Erman Jesse Ridgway.  A series of muckraking articles called "Frenzied Finance" in 1904 boosted circulation to well over 500,000, and it stayed above the half million mark for many years.  During America's involvement in World War I, circulation declined below 300,000.  By the late 1920s, it had declined to about 50,000.Beginning in 1915, the magazine began referring to itself simply as Everybody's. Writers who appeared in it include Jack London, Talbot Mundy, Victor Rousseau, O. Henry, A. A. Milne (Milne's novel The Red House Mystery was serialised in the magazine from August to December 1921 as The Red House Murder) Hugh Pendexter, Eleanor Hoyt Brainerd, Raoul Whitfield and Dornford Yates.
The last issue of Everybody's Magazine was published in March 1929. In 1931, publisher Alfred A. Cohen purchased Everybody's Magazine from the Butterick Publishing Company and attempted to revive it with F. Orlin Tremaine as editor. No known issues were produced and the magazine was soon declared discontinued.

Gallery