Passage 1:
The Longshots
The Longshots is a 2008 American comedy-drama sports film directed by Fred Durst, based on the real life events of Jasmine Plummer, the first girl to participate in the Pop Warner football tournament with the Harvey Colts lead by Head Coach Richard Brown Jr. The film stars Ice Cube and Keke Palmer, their second film together after Barbershop 2: Back in Business, and was released on August 22, 2008.

Plot
Minden, Illinois, is a former factory town with a failing economy and a pathetic football team that no one believes in. Curtis Plummer, a washed-up former football player, returns home broke and directionless until he meets his niece Jasmine, the daughter of his no-good brother Roy. Jasmine has worn her father's watch ever since he left five years ago in the hopes that he will one day return. Her mother Claire asks Curtis to take care of Jasmine after school as she is too busy with her job at the local diner. Curtis realizes Jasmine has a talent for throwing a football, which he nurtures into a passion for the game. He then persuades her to try out for the town's Pop Warner football team, the Minden Browns, because he thinks it would be good for her. The team, including the coach, are against admitting a female player, but Jasmine's abilities gain her a spot on the team. However, the coach deliberately keeps her on the bench. In the fourth game, after much prodding from Curtis, the coach puts Jasmine in the game, and although the Browns lose, everyone said they could have won if she had played from the beginning. Jasmine is then assigned as the starting quarterback and the Minden Browns quickly become a winning team.
Everything is going great until Coach Fisher suffers a heart attack, and the assistant coach asks Curtis to step in as a replacement for the last two games. He hesitates at first, still haunted by his past failures, but is eventually talked into it. The Browns win the two games and are able to go to the Pop Warner Super Bowl in Miami Beach. Roy suddenly shows up to meet them, having seen his daughter play on TV. Claire and Curtis are both unhappy and suspicious about his return, but Jasmine is ecstatic, convinced that Roy finally wants to be a part of her life.
The Browns are nearly forced to skip the Super Bowl due to a lack of money, but are able to raise enough from the town; even Curtis pitches in by donating the last of his life savings. Jasmine plays poorly in the first half when Roy does not show up to watch. Curtis talks her through her feelings and the Browns rally for the second half. They lose the game after a teammate drops the ball on the last play, but everyone is glad nonetheless that for the first time, the Browns made it to the championship. Jasmine finally confronts her deadbeat father and returns his watch, cutting him out of her life for good and accepting Curtis as the father figure she always wanted.

Cast
Production
The film was shot mostly in northwestern Louisiana, with the majority being in the small city of Minden. It was filmed at Minden High School and the Webster Parish Alternative School. The "Super Bowl" was filmed in Shreveport, Louisiana at Calvary Baptist Academy.

Release
The Longshots was released on DVD on December 2, 2008. It opened at #18 at the DVD sales chart, selling 143,000 units for revenue of $2,858,950. By January 2009, 471,000 DVD units had been sold, translating to $11 million in revenue.

Reception
Box office
The Longshots opened on August 22, 2008 and grossed $4,080,687 in its opening week. It flopped at the box office, grossing $11,767,866 worldwide, on a $23 million budget.

Critical reception
The Longshots received mixed reviews. Review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes gives the film an approval rating of 41% based on 71 reviews, with an average rating of 5.2/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "The Longshots means well, but it's a largely formulaic affair, rarely deviating from the inspirational sports movie playbook." On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 52 out of 100, based on 19 critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "A" on an A+ to F scale.
Ruthe Stein of San Francisco Chronicle opined that Keke Palmer's "winning manner and incandescent smile" made her "a perfect fit" for her role in the film.

See also
List of American football films
Passage 2:
Eldar Ryazanov
Eldar Aleksandrovich Ryazanov (Russian: Эльдар Александрович Рязанов; 18 November 1927 – 30 November 2015) was a Soviet and Russian film director, screenwriter, poet, actor and pedagogue whose popular comedies, satirizing the daily life of the Soviet Union and Russia, are celebrated throughout the former Soviet Union and former Warsaw Pact countries.

Biography
Eldar Aleksandrovich Ryazanov was born in Samara. His father, Aleksandr Semyonovich Ryazanov, was a diplomat who worked in Tehran. His mother, Sofya Mikhailovna (née Shusterman), was of Jewish descent.In 1930, the family moved to Moscow, and soon his parents divorced. He was then raised by his mother and her new husband, Lev Mikhailovich Kopp. In 1937 his father was arrested by the Stalinist government and subsequently served 18 years in the correctional labour camps.Ryazanov began to create films in the early 1950s. In 1955, Ivan Pyryev, then a major force in the Soviet film industry, suggested to him to begin work on his film Carnival Night. At first, Ryazanov refused, as he wanted to make "serious films", but then was convinced to begin, as Pyryev believed that "anybody could shoot a melodrama, but only a few can create good comedy." He won instant success, and began to release more films.
He was named a People's Artist of the USSR in 1984, and received the USSR State Prize in 1977. He won the Nika Award for Best Director in 1991 for the film Promised Heaven.
Among his most famous films are Carnival Night (1955), Hussar Ballad (1962), Beware of the Car (1966), The Irony of Fate (1975), Office Romance (1977), The Garage (1980), A Railway Station for Two (1982) and A Cruel Romance (1984). Ryazanov's main genre was tragicomedy.

Illness and death
Ryazanov had an acute ischemic stroke in November 2014. He was admitted to a Moscow hospital on 21 November 2015 due to shortness of breath. He died around midnight on 30 November 2015, of heart and lung failure, at the age of 88.

Legacy
Ryazanov was one of the most successful film directors of the Soviet Union, and his films are still well-known in the post-USSR landscape. The Irony of Fate is still aired every December 31 in most post-USSR countries, except for Ukraine since the 2014 Revolution of Dignity. A street in Moscow was named after him in 2017, and a museum and memorial dedicated to his memory was opened on the site of his childhood home in Samara.

Honours and awards
Order "For Merit to the Fatherland";
2nd class (3 July 2008) – for outstanding contribution to the development of national cinema and many years of creative activity
3rd class (20 June 1996) – for services to the state, an outstanding contribution to the development of national cinema and culture
Order of the Red Banner of Labour, twice (1969, 1977)
Order of Friendship of Peoples (1987)
Order of the "Key of Friendship" (Kemerovo Region, 2007)
Commander of the Order of Arts and Letters (France)
Commander of the Order of Honour (Georgia) (2008)
People's Artist of the RSFSR (1974)
People's Artist of the USSR (1984)
USSR State Prize (1977) (for the film "Irony of Fate, or Enjoy Your Bath!")
Vasilyev Brothers State Prize of the RSFSR (1979) (for the film "Office Romance")
Winner of the All-Union Film Festival in the "First Prize among the comedies" for 1958
Winner of the All-Union Film Festival in the "Special Award" for 1983
Nika awards;
Best Director (1991)
Best Fiction Film (1991)
Honour and dignity (2006)
Winner of Tsarskoye Selo Art Prize (2005)
The asteroid 4258 Ryazanov is named after him.

Filmography
1950 They are Studying in Moscow (Russian: Они учатся в Москве), documentary – author (in co-operation with Zoya Fomina)
1951 The Way Named October (Дорога имени Октября), documentary – director (in co-operation with Liya Derbysheva)
1952 On the World Chess  Championship (На первенство мира по шахматам), documentary – director
1953 Your Books (Твои книжки), documentary – director (in co-operation with Zoya Fomina)
1953 Near Krasnodar (Недалеко от Краснодара), documentary – director
1954 Island of Sakhalin (Остров Сахалин), documentary – director (in co-operation with Vasily Katanyan)
1955 Spring Voices (Весенние голоса), documentary – second director
1956 Carnival Night (Карнавальная ночь) – director
1957 The Girl Without Address (Девушка без адреса) – director
1961 How Robinson Was Created (Как создавался Робинзон) – director
1961 The Man from Nowhere (Человек ниоткуда) – director
1962 Hussar Ballad (Гусарская баллада) – director / screenwriter
1965 Give me a complaints book (Дайте жалобную книгу) – director / actor: chief editor
1966 Beware of the Car (Берегись автомобиля) – director / screenwriter
1968 Zigzag of Success (Зигзаг удачи) – sirector / screenwriter
1971 Grandads-Robbers (Старики-разбойники) – sirector / screenwriter / actor: the passer-by
1974 Unbelievable Adventures of Italians in Russia (Невероятные приключения итальянцев в России) – director / screenwriter / actor: doctor
1975 The Irony of Fate (Ирония судьбы или с легким паром!) – director / screenwriter / actor: airplane passenger
1977 Office Romance (Служебный роман) – director / screenwriter / actor: bus passenger
1979 The Garage (Гараж) – director / screenwriter / actor: sleeping Man
1981 Say a Word for the Poor Hussar (О бедном гусаре замолвите слово) – director / screenwriter / actor: confectioner
1982 Station for Two (Вокзал для двоих) – director / screenwriter / actor: railroad supervisor
1984 A Cruel Romance (Жестокий романс) – director / screenwriter
1987 Forgotten Melody for a Flute (Забытая мелодия для флейты) – director / screenwriter / actor: astronomer
1988 Dear Yelena Sergeyevna (Дорогая Елена Сергеевна) – director / screenwriter / actor: neighbour
1991 Promised Heaven (Небеса обетованные) – director / screenwriter / actor: man in diner
1993 Prediction (Предсказание) – director / screenwriter
1996 Hello, Fools! (Привет, дуралеи!) – director / screenwriter / actor: manager of the bookshop
2000 Old Hags (Старые клячи) – director / screenwriter / actor: judge
2000 Still Waters (Тихие омуты) – Director / Screenwriter / Actor: Radiologist / Producer
2003 The Key of Bedroom (Ключи от спальни) – director / screenwriter / actor: police constable / producer
2006 Carnival Night 2 (TV) – director / actor (сameo appearance)
2006 Andersen. Life Without Love – director / screenwriter (with Irakly Kvirikadze) / actor: mortician / producer
2007 The Irony of Fate 2 – actor (сameo appearance)
Passage 3:
Hartley Lobban
Hartley W Lobban (9 May 1926 – 15 October 2004) was a Jamaican-born first-class cricketer who played 17 matches for Worcestershire in the early 1950s.

Life and career
Lobban played little cricket in Jamaica. He went to England at the end of World War II as a member of the Royal Air Force, and settled in Kidderminster in Worcestershire in 1947, where he worked as a civilian lorry driver for the RAF. He began playing for Kidderminster Cricket Club in the Birmingham League, and at the start of the 1952 season, opening the bowling for the club's senior team, he had figures of 7 for 9 and 7 for 37.Worcestershire invited him to play for them, and he made his first-class debut against Sussex in July 1952. He took five wickets in the match (his maiden victim being Ken Suttle) and then held on for 4 not out with Peter Richardson (20 not out) to add the 12 runs needed for a one-wicket victory after his county had collapsed from 192 for 2 to 238 for 9. A week later he claimed four wickets against Warwickshire, then a few days later still he managed 6 for 52 (five of his victims bowled) in what was otherwise a disastrous innings defeat to Derbyshire. In the last match of the season he took a career-best 6 for 51 against Glamorgan; he and Reg Perks (4 for 59) bowled unchanged throughout the first innings. Worcestershire won the game and Lobban finished the season with 23 wickets at 23.69.He took 23 wickets again in 1953, but at a considerably worse average of 34.43, and had only two really successful games: against Oxford University in June, when he took 5 for 70, and then against Sussex in July. On this occasion Lobban claimed eight wickets, his most in a match, including 6 for 103 in the first innings. He also made his highest score with the bat, 18, but Sussex won by five wickets.In 1954 Lobban made only two first-class appearances, and managed only the single wicket of Gloucestershire tail-ender Bomber Wells. In his final game, against Warwickshire at Dudley, his nine first-innings overs cost 51. He bowled just two overs in the second innings as Warwickshire completed an easy ten-wicket win. Lobban played one more Second XI game, against Glamorgan II at Cardiff Arms Park; in this he picked up five wickets.
He was also a professional boxer and played rugby union for Kidderminster.He later moved to Canada, where he worked as a teacher in Burnaby, British Columbia. He and his wife Celia had a son and two daughters.
Passage 4:
Wale Adebanwi
Wale Adebanwi (born 1969) is a Nigerian-born first Black Rhodes Professor at St Antony's College, Oxford where he was, until June 2021, a Professor of Race Relations, and the Director of the African Studies Centre, School of Interdisciplinary Area Studies, and a Governing Board Fellow. He is currently a Presidential Penn Compact Professor of Africana Studies at the University of Pennsylvania. Adebanwi's research focuses on a range of topics in the areas of social change, nationalism and ethnicity, race relations, identity politics, elites and cultural politics, democratic process, newspaper press and spatial politics in Africa.

Education background
Wale Adebanwi graduated with a first degree in Mass Communication from the University of Lagos, and later earned his M.Sc. and Ph.D. in Political Science from the University of Ibadan. He also has an MPhil. and a Ph.D. in Social Anthropology from the University of Cambridge.

Career
Adebanwi worked as a freelance reporter, writer, journalist and editor for many newspapers and magazines before he joined the University of Ibadan's Department of Political Science as a lecturer and researcher. He was later appointed as an assistant professor in the African American and African Studies Department of the University of California, Davis, USA. He became a full professor at UC Davis in 2016.Adebanwi is the co-editor of Africa: Journal of the International African Institute and the Journal of Contemporary African Studies.

Works
His published works include:
Nation as Grand Narrative: The Nigerian Press and the Politics of Meaning (University of Rochester Press, 2016)
Yoruba Elites and Ethnic Politics in Nigeria: Obafemi Awolowo and Corporate Agency (Cambridge University Press, 2014)
Authority Stealing: Anti-corruption War and Democratic Politics in Post-Military Nigeria (Carolina Academic Press, 2012)In addition, he is the editor and co-editor of other books, including.

The Political Economy of Everyday Life in Africa: Beyond the Margins (James Currey Publishers, 2017)
Writers and Social Thought in Africa (Routledge, 2016)
(co-edited with Ebenezer Obadare) Governance and the Crisis of Rule in Contemporary Africa (Palgrave Macmillan, 2016)
(co-edited with Ebenezer Obadare) Democracy and Prebendalism in Nigeria: Critical Interpretations (Palgrave Macmillan, 2013).
(co-edited with Ebenezer Obadare) Nigeria at Fifty: The Nation in Narration (Routledge, 2012)
(co-edited with Ebenezer Obadare) Encountering the Nigerian State (Palgrave Macmillan, 2010).

Awards
Rhodes Professorship in Race Relations awarded by Oxford University to Faculty of African and Interdisciplinary Area Studies.
Passage 5:
Rumbi Katedza
Rumbi Katedza is a Zimbabwean Film Producer and Director who was born on 17 January 1974.

Early life and education
She did her Primary and Secondary Education in Harare, Zimbabwe. Katedza graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in English from McGill University, Canada in 1995. In 2008 Katedza received the Chevening Scholarship that enabled her to further her studies in film. She also holds a MA in Filmmaking from Goldsmiths College, London University.

Work and filmography
Katedza has experience in Film and TV Production, Directing, Writing as well as Producing and presenting Radio shows. From 1994 to 2000, She produced and presented radio shows on Women's issues, Arts and Culture, Hip Hop and Acid Jazz for the CKUT (Montreal) and ZBC Radio 3 (Zimbabwe). From 2004 - 2006, she served as the Festival Director of the Zimbabwe International Film Festival. Whilst there, she produced the Postcards from Zimbabwe Series. In 2008, Katedza founded Mai Jai Films and has produced numerous films and television productions under the banner namely

Tariro (2008);
Big House, Small House (2009);
The Axe and the Tree (2011);
The Team (2011)
Playing Warriors (2012)Her early works include:

Danai (2002);
Postcards from Zimbabwe (2006);
Trapped (2006 – Rumbi Katedza, Marcus Korhonen);
Asylum (2007);
Insecurity Guard (2007)Rumbi Katedza is a part-time lecturer at the University of Zimbabwe, in the department of Theatre Arts. She is a judge and monitor at the National Arts Merit Awards, responsible for monitoring new film and TV productions throughout the year on behalf of the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe. She has also lobbied Zimbabwean government to actively support the film industry.
Passage 6:
Henry Moore (cricketer)
Henry Walter Moore (1849 – 20 August 1916) was an English-born first-class cricketer who spent most of his life in New Zealand.

Life and family
Henry Moore was born in Cranbrook, Kent, in 1849. He was the son of the Reverend Edward Moore and Lady Harriet Janet Sarah Montagu-Scott, who was one of the daughters of the 4th Duke of Buccleuch. One of his brothers, Arthur, became an admiral and was knighted. Their great 
grandfather was John Moore, Archbishop of Canterbury from 1783 to 1805. One of their sisters was a maid of honour to Queen Victoria.Moore went to New Zealand in the 1870s and lived in Geraldine and Christchurch. He married Henrietta Lysaght of Hāwera in November 1879, and they had one son. In May 1884 she died a few days after giving birth to a daughter, who also died.In 1886 Moore became a Justice of the Peace in Geraldine. In 1897 he married Alice Fish of Geraldine. They moved to England four years before his death in 1916.

Cricket career
Moore was a right-handed middle-order batsman. In consecutive seasons, 1876–77 and 1877–78, playing for Canterbury, he made the highest score in the short New Zealand first-class season: 76 and 75 respectively. His 76 came in his first match for Canterbury, against Otago. He went to the wicket early on the first day with the score at 7 for 2 and put on 99 for the third wicket with Charles Corfe before he was out with the score at 106 for 3 after a "very fine exhibition of free hitting, combined with good defence". Canterbury were all out for 133, but went on to win the match. His 75 came in the next season's match against Otago, when he took the score from 22 for 2 to 136 for 6. The New Zealand cricket historian Tom Reese said, "Right from the beginning he smote the bowling hip and thigh, going out of his ground to indulge in some forceful driving." Canterbury won again.Moore led the batting averages in the Canterbury Cricket Association in 1877–78 with 379 runs at an average of 34.4. Also in 1877–78, he was a member of the Canterbury team that inflicted the only defeat on the touring Australians. In 1896–97, at the age of 47, he top-scored in each innings for a South Canterbury XVIII against the touring Queensland cricket team.
Passage 7:
Hassan Zee
Hassan "Doctor" Zee is a Pakistani-American film director who was born in Chakwal, Pakistan.

Early life
Doctor Zee grew up in Chakwal, a small village in Punjab, Pakistan. as one of seven brothers and sisters  His father was in the military and this fact required the family to move often to different cities. As a child Zee was forbidden from watching cinema because his father believed movies were a bad influence on children.
At age 13, Doctor Zee got his start in the world of entertainment at Radio Pakistan where he wrote and produced radio dramas and musical programs.  It was then that he realized his passion for storytelling At the age of 26, Doctor Zee earned his medical doctorate degree and did his residency in a burn unit at the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences. He cared for women who were victims of  "Bride Burning," the archaic practice used as a form of punishment against women who fail to provide sufficient dowry to their in-laws after marriage or fail to provide offspring.  He also witnessed how his country’s transgender and intersex people, called “hijras”, were banned from having jobs and forced to beg to survive. These experiences inspired Doctor Zee to tackle the issues of women’s empowerment and gender inequality in his films.In 1999, he came to San Francisco to pursue his dream of filmmaking and made San Francisco his home

Education
He received his early education from Jinnah Public School, Chakwal. He got his medical doctor degree at Rawalpindi Medical College, Pakistan.

Film career
Doctor Zee's first film titled Night of Henna was released in 2005. The theme of the film dealt with "the conflict between Old World immigrant customs and modern Western ways..." Night of Henna focused on the problems of Pakistani expatriates who found it hard to adjust in American culture. Many often landed themselves in trouble when it came to marrying off their children.
His second film Bicycle Bride came out in 2010, which was about "the clash between the bonds of family and the weight of tradition." His third film House of Temptation that came out in 2014 was about a family which struggles against the temptations of the Devil. His fourth film “Good Morning Pakistan”, concerned a young American’s journey back to Pakistan where he confronts the contradictory nature of a beautiful and ancient culture that's marred by economic, educational and gender inequality His upcoming fifth film, "Ghost in San Francisco" is a supernatural thriller starring Felissa Rose, Dave Sheridan, and Kyle Lowder where a soldier comes home from Afghanistan to discover that his wife is having an affair with his best friend. While battling with his inner ghosts and demons, he meets a mysterious woman in San Francisco who promises him a ritual for his cure.
Passage 8:
John McMahon (Surrey and Somerset cricketer)
John William Joseph McMahon (28 December 1917 – 8 May 2001) was an Australian-born first-class cricketer who played for Surrey and Somerset County Cricket Clubs in England from 1947 to 1957.

Surrey cricketer
McMahon was an orthodox left-arm spin bowler with much variation in speed and flight who was spotted by Surrey playing in club cricket in North London and brought on to the county's staff for the 1947 season at the age of 29. In the first innings of his first match, against Lancashire at The Oval, he took five wickets for 81 runs.In his first full season, 1948, he was Surrey's leading wicket-taker and in the last home game of the season he was awarded his county cap – he celebrated by taking eight Northamptonshire wickets for 46 runs at The Oval, six of them coming in the space of 6.3 overs for seven runs. This would remain the best bowling performance of his first-class career, not surpassed, but he did equal it seven years later. In the following game, the last away match of the season, he took 10 Hampshire wickets for 150 runs in the match at Bournemouth. In the 1948 season as a whole, he took 91 wickets at an average of 28.07. As a tail-end left-handed batsman, he managed just 93 runs in the season at an average of 4.22.The emergence of Tony Lock as a slow left-arm bowler in 1949 brought a stuttering end of McMahon's Surrey career. Though he played in 12 first-class matches in the 1949 season, McMahon took only 19 wickets; a similar number of matches in 1950 brought 34 wickets. In 1951, he played just seven times and in 1952 only three times. In 1953, Lock split the first finger of his left hand, and played in only 11 of Surrey's County Championship matches; McMahon played as his deputy in 14 Championship matches, though a measure of their comparative merits was that Lock's 11 games produced 67 wickets at 12.38 runs apiece, while McMahon's 14 games brought him 45 wickets at the, for him, low average of 21.53. At the end of the 1953 season, McMahon was allowed to leave Surrey to join Somerset, then languishing at the foot of the County Championship and recruiting widely from other counties and other countries.

Somerset cricketer
Somerset's slow bowling in 1954 was in the hands of leg-spinner Johnny Lawrence, with support from the off-spin of Jim Hilton while promising off-spinner Brian Langford was on national service. McMahon filled a vacancy for a left-arm orthodox spinner that had been there since the retirement of Horace Hazell at the end of the 1952 season; Hazell's apparent successor, Roy Smith, had failed to realise his promise as a bowler in 1953, though his batting had advanced significantly.
McMahon instantly became a first-team regular and played in almost every match during his four years with the county, not missing a single Championship game until he was controversially dropped from the side in August 1957, after which he did not play in the Championship again.In the 1954 season, McMahon, alongside fellow newcomer Hilton, was something of a disappointment, according to Wisden: "The new spin bowlers, McMahon and Hilton, did not attain to the best standards of their craft in a wet summer, yet, like the rest of the attack, they would have fared better with reasonable support in the field and from their own batsmen," it said. McMahon took 85 wickets at an average of 27.47 (Hilton took only 42 at a higher average). His best match was against Essex at Weston-super-Mare where he took six for 96 in the first innings and five for 45 in the second to finish with match figures of 11 for 141, which were the best of his career. He was awarded his county cap in the 1954 season, but Somerset remained at the bottom of the table.
The figures for the 1955 were similar: McMahon this time took 75 wickets at 28.77 apiece. There was a small improvement in his batting and the arrival of Bryan Lobb elevated McMahon to No 10 in the batting order for most of the season, and he responded with 262 runs and an average of 9.03. This included his highest-ever score, 24, made in the match against Sussex at Frome. A week later in Somerset's next match, he equalled his best-ever bowling performance, taking eight Kent wickets for 46 runs in the first innings of a match at Yeovil through what Wisden called "clever variation of flight and spin". These matches brought two victories for Somerset, but there were only two others in the 1955 season and the side finished at the bottom of the Championship for the fourth season running.At the end of the 1955 season, Lawrence retired and McMahon became Somerset's senior spin bowler for the 1956 season, with Langford returning from National Service as the main support. McMahon responded with his most successful season so far, taking 103 wickets at an average of 25.57, the only season in his career in which he exceeded 100 wickets. The bowling average improved still further in 1957 to 23.10 when McMahon took 86 wickets. But his season came to an abrupt end in mid-August 1957 when, after 108 consecutive Championship matches, he was dropped from the first team during the Weston-super-Mare festival. Though he played some games for the second eleven later in August, he regained his place in the first team for only a single end-of-season friendly match, and he was told that his services were not required for the future, a decision, said Wisden, that "proved highly controversial".

Sacked by Somerset
The reason behind McMahon's sacking did not become public knowledge for many years. In its obituary of him in 2002, McMahon was described by Wisden as "a man who embraced the antipodean virtues of candour and conviviality". It went on: "Legend tells of a night at the Flying Horse Inn in Nottingham when he beheaded the gladioli with an ornamental sword, crying: 'When Mac drinks, everybody drinks!'" The obituary recounts a further escapade in second eleven match at Midsomer Norton where a curfew imposed on the team was circumvented by "a POW-type loop" organised by McMahon, "with his team-mates escaping through a ground-storey window and then presenting themselves again". As the only Somerset second eleven match that McMahon played in at Midsomer Norton was right at the end of the 1957 season, this may have been the final straw. But in any case there had been "an embarrassing episode at Swansea's Grand Hotel" earlier in the season, also involving Jim Hilton, who was also dismissed at the end of the season. Team-mates and club members petitioned for McMahon to be reinstated, but the county club was not to be moved.
After a period in Lancashire League cricket with Milnrow Cricket Club, McMahon moved back to London where he did office work, later contributing some articles to cricket magazines.


== Notes and references ==
Passage 9:
Station for Two
Station for Two  (Russian: Вокзал для двоих, romanized: Vokzal dlya dvoikh) is a 1983 Soviet romantic comedy directed by Eldar Ryazanov. The film became the Soviet box office leader of 1983 with a total of 35.8 million ticket sales. It was entered into the 1983 Cannes Film Festival.

Plot summary
There are three main heroes in this movie: Vera, a waitress; Platon, a pianist; and ... a train station where these two people met. The differences in the heroes' characters and professions, the plight that Platon found himself in (he is to be arrested and undergo trial) trigger a host of both amusing and sad situations which serve as a backdrop for their unfolding love. Platon is innocent of the crime he is accused of. He simply took the blame for his wife's driving over a pedestrian. But this is known only to Platon's wife and Vera in whom he confided. However, after the verdict has been passed, Platon's life is of no interest to his wife, although Vera is ready to wait for his release.

Ideas for the filming
The script (the beginning and the end of the movie) is based on two real stories from the life of well-known people – the composer Mikael Tariverdiev and the poet Yaroslav Smelyakov.
The idea was given to the authors by Tariverdiyev. During the trip on his car, he took the passenger's seat and had one of the famous actresses drive his car. Unfortunately, it ended tragically. They had an accident and a pedestrian died. The composer decided to take the blame on himself to save the woman. There was a very long legal process that lasted about two years. Mikael was found guilty, but he was saved by amnesty. However, the affair with that woman did not last long.
The second story, which happened with the poet Smelyakov, was used in the ending of the film. He was arrested in the early 1950s and was sent to the Arctic Circle. In 1953, he was given a day off to meet his friends. The next morning after the feast friends woke up late and overslept the roll-call. Delay for the roll-call was equated with the escape. So, Smelyakov and his friends had to run a few kilometers along the snow-covered tundra to the camp. Towards the end of the road, his friends had to drag him up to the very gates of the camp, as he was too tired.

Cast
Lyudmila Gurchenko as Vera Nikolayevna Nefyodova, waitress
Oleg Basilashvili as Platon Sergeyevich Ryabinin, pianist
Nikita Mikhalkov as Andrey, conductor
Nonna Mordyukova as "Uncle Misha", a speculator
Mikhail Kononov as  Nikolasha, militiaman
Anastasia Voznesenskaya as Yuliya, on duty at the hotel
Aleksandr Shirvindt as Shurik,  pianist
Tatyana Dogileva as Marina, on duty at the hotel
Olga Volkova as Violetta, waitress
Raisa Etush as Lyuda, waitress
Viktor Bortsov as drunken visitor restaurant
Anatoli Skoryakin as commandant
Stanislav Sadalsky as drunk man with a carburetor
Alla Budnitskaya as Masha, Platon's wife
Eldar Ryazanov as Railroad Supervisor
Passage 10:
Fred Durst
William Frederick Durst (born Frederick Allen Mayne III; August 20, 1970) is an American rapper, singer, songwriter, actor and director. He is the frontman and lyricist of the nu metal band Limp Bizkit, formed in 1994, with whom he has released nine studio albums.
Since 2006, Durst has worked on a number of independent films. He co-starred in Population 436, and made his directorial debut in 2007 with The Education of Charlie Banks. He followed with The Longshots in 2008. His latest film, The Fanatic, came out in 2019. He appears as a super secret playable character in the video games Fight Club, WWF Raw, and WWF SmackDown! Just Bring It.

Early life
Durst was born Frederick Allen Mayne III in Jacksonville, Florida, but soon moved to Orlando and then a farm in Cherryville, North Carolina at one year old. His mother had him rechristened as William Frederick Durst after remarrying Bill Durst, a local police officer. Shortly after, Durst's parents had another child, his half-brother Cory Durst. In the fifth grade, he moved to Gastonia, North Carolina, where he graduated from Hunter Huss High School. As a child, Durst was bullied, which he incorporated into his music. At the age of 12, Durst took an interest in breakdancing, hip hop, punk rock, and heavy metal. He began to rap, skate, beatbox, and DJ. After being discharged from the Navy after two years (1988-1990), Durst moved back to Jacksonville in 1993, briefly living with his father and working multiple jobs as a landscaper, pizza delivery driver, and tattoo artist while developing an idea for a band that combined elements of rock and hip-hop.

Career
Formation of Limp Bizkit (1994–1998)
In 1994, Durst, Malachi Sage, bassist Sam Rivers, and Rivers' cousin John Otto jammed together and wrote three songs. Guitarist Wes Borland later joined. Durst named the band Limp Bizkit because he wanted a name that would repel listeners. Limp Bizkit developed a cult following in the underground music scene when its covers of George Michael's "Faith" and Paula Abdul's "Straight Up" began to attract curious concertgoers.Later, when Korn performed in town as the opening act for Sick of It All, Durst invited Korn to his house. He was able to persuade bassist Reginald Arvizu to listen to demos of the songs "Pollution", "Counterfeit", and "Stalemate". Korn added a then-unsigned Limp Bizkit to two tours, which gave the band a new audience. DJ Lethal, formerly of the hip hop group House of Pain, joined the band as a turntablist; Durst's disagreements with Borland led the guitarist to quit and rejoin the band.In 1997, Limp Bizkit signed with Flip Records, a subsidiary of Interscope Records, and released their debut album, Three Dollar Bill, Y'all to moderate response. On October 23, 1997, Durst met the band Staind, but friction quickly emerged between the two over the cover art of Staind's album. Durst unsuccessfully attempted to remove Staind from a concert bill shortly before their performance, but after hearing the band play, he was so impressed that he signed them to Flip/Elektra, recorded a demo with the band, and co-produced their next album, Dysfunction.After Limp Bizkit finished a tour with the band Deftones, Durst and DJ Lethal were asked by Max Cavalera, formerly of the band Sepultura, to appear on "Bleed", a song from the self-titled debut of his new band Soulfly. Cavalera stated that producer Ross Robinson recommended that he work with Durst. Durst also made an appearance on Korn's album Follow the Leader. Jonathan Davis had intended to write a battle rap with B-Real of Cypress Hill, but the latter's label wouldn't let him do it, and Durst was tapped instead. Davis and Durst wrote the lyrics for "All in the Family", which featured the two vocalists trading insults. Davis and Durst would often offer suggestions for each other's lyrics; a lyric written by Durst as "tootin' on your bagpipe" was changed to "fagpipes" by Davis, who stated "I helped him bag on me better".Durst began to take an interest in filmmaking, directing the music video for Limp Bizkit's single "Faith" in promotion for its appearance in the film Very Bad Things; he was unsatisfied with it and made a second video which paid tribute to tour mates Primus, Deftones and Mötley Crüe, who appeared in the video.

Mainstream success (1998–2005)
Limp Bizkit achieved mainstream success with the albums Significant Other (1999) and Chocolate Starfish and the Hot Dog Flavored Water (2000). In June 1999, Durst was appointed Senior Vice President of A&R at Interscope. Durst utilized his connections through the label and scouted numerous bands; landing record deals for Cold, Staind, Puddle of Mudd, and She Wants Revenge. Durst would also aid in attracting other bands such as 30 Seconds to Mars and Taproot, though Durst would pass on 30 Seconds to Mars, and he later engaged in a minor feud with Taproot after they rejected his original offer to sign the group to interscope in 1999.In the summer of 1999, Limp Bizkit played at the highly anticipated Woodstock '99 festival in front of approximately 200,000 people. The concert was tarnished by violent behavior from the crowd, much of which occurred during and after their performance, including fans tearing plywood from the walls during the song "Break Stuff". Several sexual assaults were reported in the aftermath of the concert. Durst stated during the concert, "People are getting hurt. Don't let anybody get hurt. But I don't think you should mellow out. That's what Alanis Morissette had you motherfuckers do. If someone falls, pick 'em up. We already let the negative energy out. Now we wanna let out the positive energy". Durst later stated in an interview, "I didn't see anybody getting hurt. You don't see that. When you're looking out on a sea of people and the stage is twenty feet in the air and you're performing, and you're feeling your music, how do they expect us to see something bad going on?" Les Claypool told the San Francisco Examiner, "Woodstock was just Durst being Durst. His attitude is 'no press is bad press', so he brings it on himself. He wallows in it. Still, he's a great guy." "It's easy to point the finger and blame [us], but they hired us for what we do — and all we did is what we do. I would turn the finger and point it back to the people that hired us," said Durst, in reference to original Woodstock co-founder, Michael Lang.In June 2000, Limp Bizkit's tour was sponsored by the controversial file sharing service Napster. Durst was an outspoken advocate of file sharing. During the 2000 MTV Video Music Awards, Durst performed Limp Bizkit's song "Livin' It Up", as a duet with Christina Aguilera. In response to the performance, Filter frontman Richard Patrick claimed that "Fred getting onstage with Christina Aguilera embarrassed us all." In response to the negative reactions to the performance, Durst remarked, "People always just wanna talk about Britney or Christina. What's the problem? Because they make a type of music we aren't allowed to like? Or you think they are the nemesis of what our music is about? Why segregate? Why be so musically fuckin' racist? What do you mean, I can't hang out with these types of people? Clearly I didn't give a fuck, which fed a lot of it, too. I mean, someone that's not going to give in and apologise... it's gonna make people carry on talking."During a 2001 tour of Australia at the Big Day Out festival in Sydney, fans rushed the stage in the mosh pit, and teenager Jessica Michalik died of asphyxiation. In Auckland, New Zealand, on the same tour, Durst threw water over the head of a security personnel tasked with defusing a similar situation. During the Big Day Out crush, Durst has been accused of taunting security guards intervening in the situation. In court, Durst, represented by his long-time attorney, Ed McPherson, testified he had warned the concert's organizers Aaron Jackson, Will Pearce and Amar Tailor and promoter Vivian Lees of the potential dangers of such minimal security. After viewing video and hearing witness testimony, the coroner said it was evident that the density of the crowd was dangerous at the time Limp Bizkit took the stage and Durst should have acted more responsibly when the problem became apparent. Durst stated that he was "emotionally scarred" because of the teenager's death.In 2002, Durst was tapped to write songs for Britney Spears, and later said that he was in a relationship with her. Spears denied Durst's claims. In a 2009 interview, he explained that "I just guess at the time it was taboo for a guy like me to be associated with a gal like her." In February 2005, a sex tape featuring Durst was released on the Internet. Durst filed a $70 million lawsuit against ten websites that posted the video.In May 2003, it was reported that Durst was working on a New Wave side-project alongside Limp Bizkit's Results May Vary album. The band, named Pacifica, was reportedly in its "very early stages" and had a sound reminiscent of Duran Duran and Soft Cell. News about the band stopped quickly and no releases ever surfaced.
In July 2003, Limp Bizkit participated on the Summer Sanitarium Tour, headlined by Metallica. In the days preceding the tour's stop in Chicago, local radio personality Mancow Muller mocked Durst and suggested that listeners who were attending the concert should heckle the singer and throw debris. With the crowd chanting "fuck Fred Durst" and pelting the stage with garbage, Durst erupted after six songs, threw the microphone down and walked off stage. Durst was eventually sued for breach of contract (for not completing the show) by Chicago lawyer Michael Young in a class-action suit.In May 2005, The Unquestionable Truth (Part 1) was released. Sammy Siegler took over drumming duties for the band for much of the album. At Durst's insistence, the album was released as an underground album, without any advertising or promotion. The album sold over 2,000,000 copies worldwide, peaking at number 24 on the Billboard 200. Durst later announced that despite the album's title, no sequel to The Unquestionable Truth would be produced. Later in the year, the band released a Greatest Hitz album.Having been bullied while growing up, Durst disliked seeing people "using my music as fuel to torture other people"; feeling that his music was being misinterpreted, he would later cite this as the reason for the band taking a hiatus.Durst also said that he created a character for his music, but that he was also misunderstood by the public: "I always knew the guy in the red cap was not me. I'm Dr Frankenstein and that's my creature. Being a breakdancer, a graffiti artist, a tattoo artist and liking rock and hip hop was too much; it was a conscious effort to create Fred Durst and eventually I had to bring that guy out more than I wanted to. It took on a life of its own. I had to check into that character – the gorilla, the thing, the red cap guy. It's a painful transformation, but I do it 'cos that's what I was taught to do when you have people pulling at you".

Start of film career (2006–2009)
While Limp Bizkit was on hiatus, Durst began working in independent films. In 2006, Durst costarred in the film Population 436. His directorial debut, The Education of Charlie Banks, was released the following year. The film, which starred Jesse Eisenberg, Chris Marquette and Jason Ritter, received mixed reviews; Rotten Tomatoes gave the film a score of 48% based on reviews from 31 critics.  The website's consensus stated, "Unevenness and earnestness mire this otherwise sweet, surprising coming of age drama." A second directorial effort, The Longshots, starring Ice Cube and Keke Palmer, was released in 2008. Rotten Tomatoes gave the film a score of 41% based on 71 reviews, with the site's consensus indicating that the film was "a largely formulaic affair, rarely deviating from the inspirational sports movie playbook." The same year, Durst appeared as a bartender in two episodes of the television medical drama House, M.D.

Limp Bizkit reunion (2009–present)
In 2009, the original lineup of Limp Bizkit reunited and began touring. Durst announced that they had begun to record a new album, Gold Cobra. The album was released on June 28, 2011, receiving mixed reviews. It peaked at number 16 on the Billboard 200.In 2012, Durst appeared on the Insane Clown Posse cover album Smothered, Covered & Chunked on a cover of AMG's "Bitch Betta Have My Money". In February 2012, Lil Wayne announced in a radio interview that Limp Bizkit had signed to his label, Cash Money Records, which Durst confirmed on his Twitter page. A few months later Durst was featured alongside Lil Wayne and Birdman on the Kevin Rudolf song "Champions", which peaked in the top 10 on iTunes.
Originally, Durst was to direct and produce the film Pawn Shop Chronicles, starring Paul Walker; but Wayne Kramer was later chosen to direct the film. In 2014, Durst shot three commercials for the website Eharmony, In February 2018, Durst began filming The Fanatic, starring John Travolta.

Personal life
Whilst serving in the Navy, Durst was stationed in Oakland, California where he married his first wife Rachel Tergesen in 1990. The two had a daughter named Adriana Durst, born on June 3, 1990. Durst and Tergesen divorced in 1993 following a domestic disturbance in which the couple engaged in a heated argument. Durst was later arrested and charged with disorderly conduct, receiving fine of $5000.Durst would have a son named Dallas born August 30, 2001 with his ex-girlfriend, actress Jennifer Thayer.On July 13, 1999, Durst was arrested for kicking a stage security guard in the head. Durst was released on $50,000 bail and was later fined in exchange for reduced charges.In 2007, Durst pled no-contest to seven misdemeanor charges, including battery, assault and reckless driving. According to court documents, Durst hit two Los Angeles residents with his car on October 25, 2006. He was given a 120-day suspended sentence, 20 hours community service and a $1,500 fine.In 2009, Durst married Esther Nazarov and split after three months. Durst married his third wife, make-up artist Kseniya Beryazina, in 2012. They filed for divorce in September 2018 and finalized it in 2019. Durst married Arles Durst in 2022.In 2015, Durst stated his interest in obtaining a Russian passport and spending half of the year in Crimea. He wrote a letter in which he stated that Vladimir Putin is "a great guy with clear moral principles and a nice person." Following that, Durst was banned by the Security Service of Ukraine from entering Ukraine for five years "in the interests of guaranteeing the security" of the country.During the 2018 California wildfires, Durst's house burned down and he lost a majority of his possessions. His bandmate, Wes Borland, also lost several pieces of equipment in the fire due to their being stored in Durst's home in anticipation of a scheduled recording session.Durst is a notable sports fan. He is known to be a fan of the National Football League's Jacksonville Jaguars and Las Vegas Raiders. Durst has shown his support for the NBA's Boston Celtics. Most famously, Durst was remembered for his unique style of regularly wearing a New York Yankees baseball cap backwards.

Feuds
Slipknot
Following Corey Taylor's public distaste for Korn drummer David Silveria's photo campaign for Calvin Klein, Taylor had taken copies of the magazine issues and burned them during multiple Slipknot live performances, culminating in Durst taking offense to the gestures. It was rumored that Durst would later make retaliatory comments towards Slipknot's fans in the spring of 1999, referring to them as "fat, ugly kids". Durst has denied these comments. Slipknot singer Corey Taylor responded during a February 2000 appearance in Sydney, Australia by claiming that the fans of Slipknot "for the most part, enjoy all kinds of music, like Limp Bizkit… maybe." Taylor went on to claim that insulting fans of Slipknot could also be insulting fans of Limp Bizkit. During an interview with VH1 in October 2000, Durst praised Slipknot's music, expressing his desire to quell the tension between both sides, telling interviewers; "Man this band is super phat, man; we don't even know them. That's their whole thing, that's their chant, that's their thing, that's cool. Maybe all this hate that's going around the world, that's why I said 'It's all the world has even seen lately'". Despite this; Taylor retorted with praise for Durst's financial ventures but attacked his artistic motives, claiming "Fred Durst is a great businessman, but he is not an artist".The two would find themselves on friendlier terms in 2010, while recording the album Gold Cobra; Durst included a line on the song "90.2.10", giving a shout-out to Taylor. According to Taylor during a live interview in 2011; Durst's children were allegedly fans of Slipknot. Limp Bizkit was later booked on the 2014 Japanese leg of Slipknot's Knotfest tour along with Korn.In 2021, after the death of ex-Slipknot drummer Joey Jordison, Limp Bizkit paid tribute to him at one of their shows.

Britney Spears
Durst and Britney Spears were linked to have written numerous songs for her then-upcoming 2003 album In the Zone. At the time Spears was making numerous headlines as reports surfaced of her fractured relationship with former boyfriend Justin Timberlake (with whom Spears had split from in 2002), later linking her with Durst as the two were spotted together on numerous occasions. In response of initial allegations that Spears had engaged in an affair with Durst, Timberlake released the track Cry Me a River in November of 2002, aimed at Spears. In January of 2003, Durst claimed he and Spears were in a relationship stemming from their collaborations on three upcoming tracks for the album. Upon hearing Durst's claims; Spears denied the two were in a relationship but claimed Durst "Was a really Sweet guy", admitting the two still shared a friendly relationship. Out of anger at Spears' denial of the affair; Durst scrapped his three songs for Spears' album and leaked the song "Just Drop Dead" on February 18, 2003 through Limp Bizkit's website. The song depicts Durst's vulgar recounting of their alleged relationship. Durst continued to expose numerous sexual encounters between the two during a later appearance on Howard Stern. During a 2009 interview, Durst explained that "I just guess at the time it was taboo for a guy like me to be associated with a gal like her." In 2013, Durst later made another derogatory reference aimed at Spears on Limp Bizkit's song Ready to Go.

Taproot & System of a Down
Taproot had been an up-and-coming band from Ann Arbor, Michigan. In 1998 the band sent their demo to Durst who quickly befriended them, often invited them to various press releases in Los Angeles and occasionally bringing them to Limp Bizkit's concerts throughout the region. During this time; Taproot were simultaneously receiving attention from other labels; notably being Arista Records and Atlantic Records. Durst was impressed with the band's material and had initially lined up Taproot to land a record contract through Interscope; however, executives from Interscope proved to be difficult to negotiate with as they wanted the rights to the 3 songs recorded by the band through their demo deal. The band eventually rejected the offer from Interscope and sought to sign with Atlantic Records through their new found friendship with System of a Down. Durst was enraged to eventually discover Taproot had defected to Atlantic, leading him to leave a threatening message on frontman Stephen Richards' mother's answering machine. Durst was later alleged to have personally removed System of a Down from the 1999 Family Values Tour as a retaliatory action, claiming he loved System of a Down but their manager "was a piece of shit who got them kicked off the tour".

Creed
In June 2000, Limp Bizkit performed at the WXRK Dysfunctional Family Picnic, but showed up an hour late for their set. An Interscope spokesman stated that there was confusion over the band's set time. During the band's performance, Durst criticized Creed singer Scott Stapp, calling him "an egomaniac". Creed's representatives later presented Durst with an autographed anger management manual during an appearance on Total Request Live.

Placebo
A feud between Limp Bizkit and Placebo began at a show Durst was hosting at Irving Plaza in December 1998. A side stage spat with Placebo singer Brian Molko led to Durst asking the crowd to chant "Placebo sucks!" prior to Placebo's performance. Molko later commented that nobody had told him that Durst would be hosting the show and that Placebo would have to follow opening act Kid Rock. Prior to introducing Staind as a part of K-Rock's Dysfunctional Family Picnic in Holmdel, New Jersey in 1999, Durst once again encouraged the crowd to chant "Fuck Placebo". The feud was reignited during Big Day Out 2001, on which Placebo were billed below Limp Bizkit. By 2004, the feud had supposedly ended.

Shaggy 2 Dope
On October 6, 2018, Shaggy 2 Dope from hip hop duo Insane Clown Posse attempted to dropkick Durst during a performance of the song "Faith". DJ Lethal from Limp Bizkit responded on Instagram Live, calling Shaggy a "clout chaser". According to 2 Dope, who is a pro wrestler with years of experience, he did not intend to cause Durst any harm and the motive for the kick stemmed from a dare he had with a security guard that let him on the stage after Durst announced "I need some people on stage."On February 4, 2022, Shaggy 2 Dope apologized to Durst on Steve-O's Wild Ride podcast for attacking him 4 years back. Durst responded on social media with "No hard feelings at all".

Trent Reznor & Marilyn Manson
Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails was noted by Durst as an influence during several interviews. Displeased  by Durst's statements; Reznor repeatedly attacked Durst and Limp Bizkit to several interviews in response. In a profile for Kerrang!, Reznor mocked Durst saying "It's one thing if you know your place; like, 'Hey, I'm an idiot who plays shitty music but people buy it – fuck it, I'm having fun. But it's another thing when you think you're David Bowie after you've stayed up all night to write a song called 'Break Stuff'. I mean, Fred Durst probably spelt the word 'break' wrong the first couple of times. Fred Durst might be a cool guy; I don't know him. But his 'art' – in the word's loosest sense – sucks." Durst in turn made several references to Nine Inch Nails in the Limp Bizkit song "Hot Dog", leading to Reznor earning a co-writer credit. Reznor said there was no issue, jokingly stating that "When his record was going to print, [Durst] realised 'Fuck, I'd better ask permission first or I might get sued!' I let him do it – I wasn't gonna hold his record up.".In 1999, Marilyn Manson insulted Limp Bizkit and their fans, calling them "illiterate apes that beat your ass in high school for being a 'fag' and now sell you tuneless testosterone anthems of misogyny and pretend to be outsiders...".Reznor and Manson once again took aim at Durst and Limp Bizkit during a 2000 interview when Manson was asked about his opinion of Nine Inch Nails' recent video for the single Starfuckers, Inc. in which the two take aim at multiple artists ranging from Billy Corgan, Michael Stipe, and notably Durst. Manson later exclaimed: "With this video, we didn't wanna seem bitching like about somehow that Limp Bizkit's doing better than we are, in their mind." Reznor later exclaimed; "I don't have to say Limp Bizkit sucks, you know it, I know it, I shouldn't have to say it".Durst responded to Manson and Reznor's insults: "I understand that Marilyn Manson is very unhappy that his career has gone in a shambles and he's alienated his fans so if he has to say things like that because he's very mad at himself, I would forgive him. And Trent Reznor's in the fucking same boat. Trent Reznor is obviously unhappy with how he's alienated the world, how long he took to make a record, and how he thought he was immortal. We're just here doing what we do and we have nothing to say about anybody. I wish them both luck and I feel sorry that they're so jealous and mad at themselves that they have to talk shit."Durst's relationship with Manson had reportedly grown cordial as the two appeared on the cover of a Rolling Stone magazine issue in June of 2003 alongside James Hetfield and Ozzy Osbourne.Despite this, Limp Bizkit guitarist Wes Borland would join Manson's touring band in 2008. During a show in Seoul, South Korea on August 15, 2008; Manson would introduce Borland onstage and attacked Limp Bizkit, claiming to the crowd "Here's our new guitarist, he used to play for a really bad band…". Borland would depart Manson's touring band after less than nine months.
In the wake of multiple allegations of sexual abuse and assault accusations against Manson, Borland would later attack Manson in several interviews in 2021, denouncing him as a "Bad fucking dude". Reznor in response supported Borland's claims against Manson's misconduct while he also attacked Manson for the abuse allegations during an interview with Ultimate Guitar.

Puddle of Mudd
Due to the notoriety surrounding Puddle of Mudd receiving a record deal through Durst in 2000, the band was often asked in regards to their relationship with him. Wes Scantlin criticized Durst in an interview in 2004 with Canada's Chart magazine: "He doesn't write our songs, he doesn't produce our songs, he doesn't do anything for us. He doesn't do our videos anymore. He doesn't do anything for this band. I don't know what he's doing, I don't know what the guy's like. All I know is that he's like Mr Hollywood guy, Mr Celebrity. Like, 'I don't hang out with anybody except Hollywood celebrities'. Every single fucking interview I've ever fucking done, I get asked about that fucking guy... And for me to do interviews all the time and be asked about this certain individual... People think he writes music with me or something. He does not do that. I just don't get it. We have nothing in common. He doesn't even call us, he has his assistant call us to congratulate us on our record. Yeah, that's how pathetic he is."
On April 22, 2008, in an interview with Artisan News Service, Wes Scantlin retracted his previous criticism of Fred Durst: "Fred got our foot in the door and helped us out tremendously. I think nowadays he's doing a lot of directing and we don't really speak to him too much but we appreciate everything he's ever done for our careers."

Discography
Limp Bizkit
Three Dollar Bill, Y'all$ (1997)
Significant Other (1999)
Chocolate Starfish and the Hot Dog Flavored Water (2000)
Results May Vary (2003)
The Unquestionable Truth (Part 1) (2005)
Gold Cobra (2011)
Still Sucks (2021)

Singles
Filmography
Awards and nominations