Passage 1:
Husain Bey, Crown Prince of Tunisia
Husain Bey Gouta, Crown Prince of Tunisia (22 April 1893 – 22 April 1969) was the titular head of the Husainid Dynasty. He was the third son of Muhammad V al-Nasir, Bey of Tunis, by his second wife, Lalla Husn ul-Ujud, from 1906 until 1922.

Biography
Husain Bey Gouta was born in Sidi Bou Said. He was educated at the Prytanée National Militaire school situated in the city of La Flèche in western France. At the time of attending the Prytanée National Militaire school, Tunisia was a French protectorate.
On 1 October 1955, Husain Bey Gouta was invested as the heir apparent of the Beylik of Tunis, receiving the title Bey al-Mahalla, meaning Bey of the Camp. This is a title used for the most senior member of the Beylical family after the reigning Bey. In addition to becoming Bey al-Mahalla, he also became a Lieutenant General in the Beylical Army. Following Tunisia's independence from France on 20 March 1956, Husain Bey received the new title of Crown Prince following its independence as a Kingdom.
Husain Bey Gouta's chances of ascending the throne came to an end on 25 July 1957, when the prime minister, Habib Bourguiba, usurped power and abolished the monarchy. Following the death of King Muhammad VIII al-Amin on 30 September 1962, Husain Bey Gouta succeeded as head of the Husainid Dynasty as Head of the Royal House of Tunisia, and of the Nishan ad-Dam, Nishan al-Ahad al-Aman, and the Nishan al-Iftikhar and remained so until his death, when he was succeeded by Prince Mustafa Bey Gouta. He was Sovereign and Grand Master of the Nishan al-Ahad al-Aman, Nishan ad-Dam, and Nishan al-Iftikhar.
He was decorated with the Nishan al-Ahad al-Aman al-Murassa on 1 October 1955, Nishan ad-Dam, Grand Cross of the Nishan al-Iftikhar, Grand Officer of the Order of the Legion of Honour of France, the Sharifian Order of Al-Alaoui of Morocco, etc.
He died in Sidi Bou Said. Some sources stated he died in October 1964.

Marriage and children
Husain Bey Gouta was married on 22 July 1914, at the Dar al-Taj Palace in La Marsa as his only wife to Lalla Aisha Maria, the daughter of Si Ahmad bin Abdullah Maria, an Italian convert to Islam, and his wife Princess Traki, eldest daughter of Sidi Husain Bey, Bey al-Taula. Husain and Aisha had five children: 

Prince Ali Bey Gouta (1915–1945).
Princess Husn al-Ujud Gouta (born 1918).
Prince Murad Bey Gouta (1919–2005).
Prince Muhammad al-Afif Bey Gouta (1926–1985).
Prince Muhammad Bey Gouta (1934–1934).

Ancestry


== External links ==
Passage 2:
Abu Yusuf Yaqub al-Mansur
Abū Yūsuf Yaʿqūb ibn Yūsuf ibn Abd al-Muʾmin al-Manṣūr (Arabic: أبو يوسف يعقوب بن يوسف بن عبد المؤمن المنصور; c. 1160 – 23 January 1199 Marrakesh), commonly known as Yaqub al-Mansur (يعقوب المنصور) or Moulay Yacoub (مولاي يعقوب), was the third Almohad Caliph. Succeeding his father, al-Mansur reigned from 1184 to 1199. His reign was distinguished by the flourishing of trade, architecture, philosophy and the sciences, as well as by victorious military campaigns in which he was successful in repelling the tide of the Reconquista in the Iberian Peninsula.

Military actions
Al-Mansur's father was killed in Portugal on 29 July 1184; upon reaching Seville with his father's body on 10 August, he was immediately proclaimed the new caliph. Al-Mansur vowed revenge for his father's death, but fighting with the Banu Ghaniya, delayed him in Africa. After inflicting a new defeat on the Banu Ghaniya, he set off for the Iberian Peninsula to avenge his father's death.
His 13 July 1190 siege of Tomar, center of the Portuguese Templars failed to capture the fortress. However, further south he in 1191 recaptured a major fortress, Paderne Castle and the surrounding territory near Albufeira, in the Algarve – which had been controlled by the Portuguese army of King Sancho I since 1182. Having inflicted other defeats on the Christians and captured major cities, he returned to the Maghreb with three thousand Christian captives.
Upon Al-Mansur's return to Africa, however, Christians in Iberian Peninsula resumed the offensive, capturing many of the Moorish cities, including Silves, Vera, and Beja.
When Al-Mansur heard this news, he returned to the Iberian Peninsula, and defeated the Christians again. This time, many were taken in chained groups of fifty each, and later sold in Africa as slaves.
While Al-Mansur was away in Africa, the Christians mounted the largest army of that period, of over 300,000 men, to defeat Al-Mansur. However, immediately upon hearing this, Al-Mansur returned again to Iberia and defeated Castilian King Alfonso VIII Alfonso's army in the Battle of Alarcos, on 18 July 1195. It was said that Al-Mansur's forces killed 150,000 and took money, valuables and other goods "beyond calculation". It was after this victory that he took the title al-Mansur Billah ("Made Victorious by God").

Internal policy
Architectural patronage
During his reign, Al-Mansur undertook several major construction projects. He added a monumental gate to the Kasbah of the Udayas in Rabat and he may have been responsible for finishing the construction of the current Kutubiyya Mosque in Marrakesh.  He also created a vast royal citadel and palace complex in Marrakesh which subsequently remained the seat of government in the city for centuries afterward. This royal district included the Kasbah Mosque (or El-Mansuriyya Mosque) in Marrakesh and was accessed via the monumental gate of Bab Agnaou, both dating from al-Mansur's time. He also embarked on the construction of an even bigger fortified capital in Rabat, where he attempted to build what would have been the world's largest mosque. However, construction on the mosque and on this new citadel stopped after his death. Only the beginnings of the mosque had been completed, including a large part of its massive minaret now known as the Hassan Tower.
Some of Rabat's historic gates, most notably Bab er-Rouah, also date from this time, one of Al-Mansur's famous works is the Bimaristan of Marrakesh, the first hospital in Morocco to be ever built, Al-Mansur embellished it with luxurious ornaments and sculptures, it had gardens, water canals attached to it and it was Funded personally by Almohad's government, it is said that Averroes worked there for some time.

Philosophy and religion
Al-Mansur protected the philosopher Averroes and kept him as a favorite at court. Like many of the Almohad caliphs, Al-Mansur was religiously learned. He favored the Zahirite or literalist school of Muslim jurisprudence per Almohad doctrine and possessed a relatively extensive education in the Muslim prophetic tradition; he even wrote his own book on the recorded statements and actions of the prophet Muhammad. Mansur's Zahirism was clear when he ordered his judges to exercise judgment only according to the Qur'an, said recorded statements and absolute consensus. Mansur's father Abu Yaqub appointed Cordoban polymath Ibn Maḍāʾ as chief judge, and the two of them oversaw the banning of all non-Zahirite religious books during the Almohad reforms; Mansur was not satisfied, and when he inherited the throne he ordered Ibn Maḍāʾ to actually undertake the burning of such books.

Death and legacy
He died on 23 January 1199 in Marrakech.His victory in Alarcos was remembered for centuries later, when the tide of war turned against the Muslim side. It is recounted by the historian Ibn Abi Zar in his 1326 Rawd al-Qirtas ("History of the Rulers of the Maghreb").The town of Moulay Yacoub, outside of Fez, Morocco, is named after Al-Mansur, and is best known for its therapeutic hot springs.
Passage 3:
Umar of Borno
Umar I ibn Muhammad al-Amin (Arabic: اولعمر ابن محمد لرشيد) or Umar of Borno (died 1881) was Shehu (Sheik) of the Kanem-Bornu Empire and son of Muhammad al-Amin al-Kanemi.

Reign of Umar
Umar came to power at the death of his father in 1837. Umar did not match his father's vitality and gradually allowed the kingdom to be ruled by advisers (wazirs). Umar ruled from 1837 until November 1853 when he was deposed by his brother `Abd ar-Rahman ibn Muhammad al-Amin who became Shehu. The latter only reigned until 1854 when Umar reconquered his throne.Umar ruled as Shehu for a second time from September 1854 to 1880. Borno began to decline, as a result of administrative disorganization, regional particularism, and attacks by the militant Ouaddai Empire to the east. The decline continued under Umar's sons, and in 1894 Rabih az-Zubayr, leading an invading army from eastern Sudan, conquered Borno.

Dynasty
Footnotes
Bibliography
Brenner, Louis, The Shehus of Kukawa: A History of the Al-Kanemi Dynasty of Bornu, Oxford Studies in African Affairs (Oxford, Clarendon Press, 1973).
Cohen, Ronald, The Kanuri of Bornu, Case Studies in Cultural Anthropology (New York: Holt, 1967).
Denham, Dixon  and Captain Clapperton and the Late Doctor Oudney, Narrative of Travels and Discoveries in Northern and Central Africa, (Boston: Cummings, Hilliards and Co., 1826).
Isichei, Elizabeth, A History of African Societies to 1870 (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1997), pp. 318–320, ISBN 0-521-45599-5.
Lange, Dierk, 'The kingdoms and peoples of Chad', in General history of Africa, ed. by Djibril Tamsir Niane, IV (London: Unesco, Heinemann, 1984), pp. 238–265.
Last, Murray, ‘Le Califat De Sokoto Et Borno’, in Histoire Generale De l'Afrique, Rev. ed. (Paris: Presence Africaine, 1986), pp. 599–646.
Lavers, John, "The Al- Kanimiyyin Shehus: a Working Chronology" in Berichte des Sonderforschungsbereichs, 268, Bd. 2, Frankfurt a. M. 1993: 179-186.
Oliver, Roland & Anthony Atmore (2005). Africa Since 1800, Fifth Edition. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-83615-8.
Palmer, Herbert Richmond, The Bornu Sahara and Sudan (London: John Murray, 1936).
Taher, Mohamed (1997). Encyclopedic Survey of Islamic Dynasties A Continuing Series. New Delhi: Anmol Publications PVT. LTD. ISBN 81-261-0403-1.

External links
Kanuri Studies Association
Passage 4:
Muhammad al-Nasir
Muhammad al-Nasir (Arabic: الناصر لدين الله محمد بن المنصور, al-Nāṣir li-dīn Allāh Muḥammad ibn al-Manṣūr, c. 1182 – 1213) was the fourth Almohad Caliph from 1199 until his death. Contemporary Christians referred to him as Miramamolin.          
On 25 January 1199, al-Nasir's father Abu Yusuf Yaqub al-Mansur died; al-Nasir was proclaimed the new caliph that very day. Al-Nasir inherited from his father an empire that was showing signs of instability. Because of his father's victories against the Christians in the Iberian Peninsula (Al-Andalus), he was temporarily relieved from serious threats on that front and able to concentrate on combating and defeating Banu Ghaniya attempts to seize Ifriqiya (Tunisia). Needing, after this, to deal with problems elsewhere in the empire, he appointed Abu Mohammed ibn Abi Hafs as governor of Ifriqiya, so unwittingly inaugurating the rule of the Hafsid dynasty there, which lasted until 1574.

Dynasty and Iberian presence
He now had to turn his attention back to Iberia, to deal with a Crusade proclaimed by Pope Innocent III at the request of King Alfonso VIII of Castile. This resulted in his defeat by a Christian coalition at the Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa (1212). He died the following year, and was succeeded by his young son Yusuf al-Mustansir, born of Christian slave Qamar.

Relationship with King John of England
In the early 13th century, John, King of England was under pressure after a quarrel with Pope Innocent III led to England being placed under an interdict, by which all forms of worship and other religious practices were banned. John himself was excommunicated, parts of the country were in revolt and there were threats of a French invasion.Writing two decades after the events, Matthew Paris, a St Albans chronicler of the early thirteenth century, claims that, in desperation, John sent envoys to al-Nâsir asking for his help. In return John offered to convert to Islam, to make the country at disposal of the caliph and turn England into a Muslim state. Among the delegates was Master Robert, a London cleric. Al-Nâsir was said to be so disgusted by John's grovelling plea that he sent the envoys away. Historians have cast doubt on this story, due to the lack of other contemporary evidence.

Viziers
Abu Zayd bin Yujan (1198–1199)
Abu Mohammed ibn Abi Hafs (1199–1205), the future governor of Ifriqiya (see above)
Abu Sa`id Uthman ibn Jam`i (1205–1214)
Passage 5:
Clare Nasir
Clare Lyn Nasir (born 20 June 1970) is an English meteorologist, author, and TV presenter.

Early life
Born in Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, Nasir's family is musical, with Nasir playing the saxophone, while three of her brothers are professional musicians. Nasir attended Kingsbrook School in South Northamptonshire, where in 1988 she obtained A-levels in Mathematics, Geography and History. She then studied at the University of Plymouth, graduating with an honours degree in Mathematics, continuing on with her master's degree in Applied Marine Sciences.

Career
After university studies, Nasir joined the Met Office, training to become a qualified weather forecaster.Two years later, Nasir joined the Met Office's London Weather Centre, offering weather forecasting and presenting services to London radio stations and media outlets. Subsequently, she took a position as forecaster and presenter for Anglia Television in 1997. She returned to London to work for Carlton Television in 1998.
In 2000 Nasir joined GMTV as maternity leave cover for regular weather forecaster Andrea McLean, however this led to a permanent contract, with her sharing duties with McLean following her return.
In 2001 Nasir was made weather producer and presenter being responsible for all weather output and weather-related features on GMTV. GMTV forecasts include outside broadcasts, the most famous of which involves Nasir reporting from Bridlington seafront. Being lashed by wind and rain, in the middle of the report an enormous wave burst over the harbour wall, completely covering her and sending her flying out of shot. Undeterred, she picked herself up and finished her report, having to speak directly into the boom microphone as she had lost her microphone pack.As well as presenting the weather on GMTV, Nasir has hosted several series, including "Interactive Wedding", the travel series "Great Escapes", and "Extreme Weather", wherein she investigated globally changing weather patterns.
In 2007 Nasir served as one of many panelists on Through the Keyhole.
On 1 August 2010, the Daily Mirror announced Nasir was to quit GMTV prior to the following month, to launch a fitness DVD. On 3 September 2010, on the final broadcast of GMTV, Nasir presented her last weather forecast.
From 20 November 2010 until 27 October 2013, Nasir presented weather forecasts for the ITN produced regional news programme ITV News London on ITV London.
In 2011, Nasir completed a diploma in International Environmental Policy from the Open University.In February 2012, Nasir appeared as a celebrity guest on the Channel 5 TV show, "Live With ..." and spoke of her journey of having achieved her goal of having a baby.Nasir has written a regular weather-related blog column for The Huffington Post (UK).In June 2012 Nasir presented weather forecasts for the ITN produced 5 News on Channel 5 to cover for Sian Welby while she is on holiday or a break.
As of 4 October 2013, Nasir has presented weather forecasts for the BBC North West produced regional news programme BBC North West Tonight as well as Look North for Yorkshire and Look North for Lincolnshire and Yorkshire.
Since 2016, Nasir has hosted the weather bulletins for the Met Office online. Nasir has also written a series of children's books including Colin The Cloud.
On 31 October 2016, Nasir joined as full-time weather forecaster for 5 News on Channel 5.

Filmography
Personal life
Nasir has been married to DJ Chris Hawkins since March 2005. She gave birth to a daughter on 11 November 2009, seven weeks early. Clare took maternity leave from GMTV for 5 months from October 2009 to February 2010.
In 2012, Nasir and Hawkins moved to Wilmslow as Hawkins continues working for BBC Radio 6 Music at MediaCityUK.Nasir's brother Matt plays in Frank Turner's backing band, The Sleeping Souls.

Books
COLIN THE CLOUD. (2014) Rudling House.
STEVE THE STRATUS. (2015) Rudling House.
What Does Rain Smell Like? (2019)
Passage 6:
Muhammad Nasir
Muhammad Nasir (born 28 March 1937) is a Pakistani boxer. He competed in the men's bantamweight event at the 1960 Summer Olympics.
Passage 7:
Mohammad Jibran Nasir
Mohammad Jibran Nasir  (Urdu: محمد جبران ناصر; born 10 February 1987) is a Pakistani civil rights activist, and lawyer.

Early life and education
Nasir was born on 10 February 1987 in Karachi, Pakistan. He completed his O-Levels from Saint Michael's Convent School in Karachi, A-Levels from The Lyceum School in Karachi, and went to the University of London International Programme for Bachelor of Law (LLB Hons.). Later, he completed LLM in International Commercial Law from the University of Northumbria, UK.

Activism
He is a lawyer by profession and is known for criticizing state policies regarding banned organisations in Pakistan and call attention to the need for protection of minorities.Nasir has been a trustee at Elaj Trust and involved in relief work through Elaj Trust. He founded the NGO, Never Forget Pakistan and is also involved in advocacy for marginalised communities through Pakistan For All.Nasir became prominent following the December 2014's Peshawar's school attack which led to 150 dead after he led the procession calling for the arrest of Lal Masjid cleric Abdul Aziz, for which he subsequently received alleged threats from Taliban spokesman.He was noted by Foreign Policy Magazine amongst the three Pakistanis making considerable effort against sectarian violence.In January 2015, Nasir played a key role in organising a new movement to "Reclaim Pakistan" from violent extremism and played a major role in organising demonstrations carrying playcards and candles. Nasir had been leading protests against terrorism in Pakistan, and was arrested on 5 February 2015 for protesting near the Chief Minister's residence along with other Civil Society activists. Later on the same day, Nasir was released by the Karachi Police.  Following his release he addressed protesters gathered and reiterated his 15-day ultimatum to government for taking action against banned organizations.In 2017, Nasir filed a complaint with Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority (PEMRA) alleging Aamir Liaquat Hussain in his TV show of running a defamatory and life-threatening campaign against him. Following which PEMRA banned TV show of Aamir Liaquat. Rawalpindi police also registered a case against Aamir Liaquat for threatening the life of Nasir. Amnesty International  in a letter to Interior Minister of Pakistan called on the government to take action to protect the lives and rights of activists including of Nasir due to harassment and threats by Aamir Liaquat.

Political career
Nasir ran for seat of the National Assembly of Pakistan and Provincial Assembly of Sindh as an independent candidate from Constituency NA-250 (Karachi-XII) and Constituency PS-113 (Karachi-XXV) respectively in 2013 Pakistani general election, but was unsuccessful after securing a meager 259 votes for the NA seat. He lost the National Assembly seat to Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf's candidate Arif Alvi and Sindh Assembly seat to Samar Ali Khan. NA-250 was described as one of the most hotly contested seats for the National Assembly. After the 2018 delimitation, the NA-250 constituency was renamed NA-247.In June 2018, he announced to contest in 2018 Pakistani general election as an independent candidate, for the seat of the National Assembly from Constituency NA-247 and for the seat of the Provincial Assembly of Sindh from Constituency PS-111. His election campaign was titled "Hum Mein Se Aik". Despite numerous publicity campaigns, he lost elections for both the national and provincial assembly seats by substantial margins.
He ran for the seat of the Provincial Assembly of Sindh from Constituency PS-111 as an independent candidate in by-election held on 21 October 2018, but was unsuccessful.
Passage 8:
Shoaib Nasir
Shoaib Nasir (born 26 February 1983) is a Pakistani first-class cricketer who plays for Rawalpindi.
Passage 9:
Uthman ibn Sa'id al-Asadi
Uthman ibn Sa'id al-Asadi al-Amri (Arabic: عُثْمَان ٱبْن سَعِيد ٱلْأَسَدِيّ عَمْرِوْيّ ʿUthmān ibn Saʿīd al-ʾAsadīy al-ʿAmrīy) was the first of the Four Deputies, who are believed by the Twelvers to have successively represented their twelfth Imam, Muhammad al-Mahdi, during his Minor Occultation (874–941 CE). Uthman is also said to have been a trusted representative of the tenth and eleventh Imams, Ali al-Hadi and Hasan al-Askari, respectively. The date of his death is not certain, though it is believed that Uthman did not survive al-Askari for long.

Historical background
Until their deaths, the tenth and eleventh Shia Imams (Ali al-Hadi and Hasan al-Askari, respectively) were held under close surveillance in the garrison town of Samarra by the Abbasids, who are often responsible in Shia sources for poisoning the two Imams. The two Imams witnessed the deterioration of the Abbasid caliphate, as the imperial authority rapidly transitioned into the hands of the Turks, particularly after al-Mutawakkil.Contemporary to the tenth Imam, the Abbasid al-Mutawakkil violently prosecuted the Shia, partly due to the renewed Zaydi opposition. The restrictive policies of al-Mutawakkil towards the tenth Imam were later adopted by his son, al-Mu'tamid, who is reported to have kept the eleventh Imam under house arrest without any visitors. Instead, al-Askari is known to have mainly communicated with his followers through a network of representatives. Among them was Uthman ibn Sa'id, who is said to have disguised himself as a seller of cooking fat to avoid the Abbasid agents, hence his nickname al-Samman. Tabatabai suggests that these restrictions were placed on al-Askari because the caliphate had come to know about traditions among the Shia elite, predicting that the eleventh Imam would father the eschatological Mahdi.

Underground network
The underground network of representatives might date back to Ja'far al-Sadiq, the sixth Imam, in response to the Abbasid restrictions on him. At the time, the main purpose of this network was to collect the Islamic alms, such as khums and zakat. The Abbasid al-Rashid is said to have carried out a campaign of arrests in 179 (795) to decimate this underground network which ultimately led to the arrest of Musa al-Kazim, the seventh Imam, and his death in prison.By the time of Muhammad al-Jawad, the ninth Imam, some of the representatives took administrative and military roles in the caliphate by practicing religious dissimulation (taqiya). The underground network of Ali al-Hadi, the tenth Imam, was highly developed, especially in Samarra, Baghdad, Mada'in, and Sawad. However, a campaign of arrests and the subsequent tortures by the Abbasid al-Mutawakkil (r. 847–861) might have led the caliph to discover that the Imam was behind their activities. Al-Mutawakkil then summoned the Imam to Samarra, where he was kept under close surveillance and possibly house arrest. According to Hussain, restrictions on the later Imams inevitably expanded the role and authority of their representatives, particularly their main agent. By performing certain functions of the Imams, these representatives might have hoped to save the Imams from the political pressure of the Abbasids.

Tenure as an agent of al-Hadi
Uthman was a close associate of the tenth Imam, Ali al-Hadi. It is reported that he was eleven when he first served as an agent for this Imam.

Tenure as an agent of al-Askari
After the death of al-Hadi in 254 (868), his successor, Hasan al-Askari, appointed Uthman as a representative in 256 (869-70). It also seems certain that Uthman became the closest associate of the eleventh Imam. Both al-Hadi and al-Askari are said to have praised Uthman as highly trustworthy. As a representative of the two Imams, Uthman disguised himself as a seller of cooking fat to avoid the Abbasid agents, hence his nickname al-Samman. It is reported that he collected religious donations, hid them in the containers of cooking fat, and delivered them to al-Askari. After the death of al-Askari in 260 (874), Uthman performed the funeral rites of the eleventh Imam, an honor for which he must have received the permission of al-Askari beforehand.

Tenure as an agent of al-Mahdi
Immediately after the death of al-Askari in 260 (874), Uthman claimed that the eleventh Imam had a young son, named Muhammad, who had entered a state of occultation (ghayba) due to the Abbasid threat to his life. As the special agent of al-Askari, Uthman also claimed that he had been appointed to represent the son of the eleventh Imam. Twelver sources detail that Muhammad al-Mahdi made his only public appearance to lead the funeral prayer for his father instead of his uncle, Ja'far.As the closest associate of al-Askari, the local representatives and the Shia community largely recognized Uthman's claim to be the agent of the Hidden Imam. However, there were possibly doubts among the Shia about Uthman's authority to collect and distribute the religious donations. In his new capacity as the caretaker of the office of imamate, Uthman also received petitions and made available their responses, sometimes in writing.The date of his death is not certain, but it is believed that Uthman did not survive al-Askari for long. Klemm holds that Uthman died in 880 CE. Uthman was succeeded by his son, Abu Ja'far Muhammad, as the next agent of the Hidden Imam. Tusi in his Rijal reports that the eleventh Imam had appointed Uthman and his son as agents of his son, Muhammad, in the presence of a group of Yemeni followers.

See also
Abu Ja'far Muhammad ibn Uthman
Abu al-Qasim al-Husayn ibn Ruh al-Nawbakhti
Abu al-Hasan Ali ibn Muhammad al-Samarri
Passage 10:
Nasir (footballer)
Nasir (born 8 October 1995) is an Indonesian professional footballer who plays for Liga 1 club Dewa United, mainly as a left back but also as a left winger.

Club career
Arema FC
At first he was just following his selection at Arema FC, but when Ahmad Nufiandani joined PS TNI, Nasir also got a place to fill the slot for U-23 players. Nasir could follow the selection in Arema FC because it was recommended by former Arema FC players, Andi Robot. He was able to captivate the attention of the coaching team during the selection.

Persebaya Surabaya
He was signed for Persebaya Surabaya to play in the Liga 1 in the 2020 season. This season was suspended on 27 March 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The season was abandoned and was declared void on 20 January 2021.

Persela Lamongan
He was signed for Persela Lamongan to play in 2021 Menpora Cup and Liga 1 in the 2021 season. Nasir made his debut on 4 September 2021 in a match against PSIS Semarang at the Wibawa Mukti Stadium, Cikarang.

Dewa United
Nasir was signed for Dewa United to play in Liga 1 in the 2022–23 season. He made his debut on 1 October 2022 in a match against RANS Nusantara at the Indomilk Arena, Tangerang.

Career statistics
Club
As of match played 8 July 2023

Honours
Club
Arema

Indonesia President's Cup: 2017, 2019Persebaya Surabaya

East Java Governor Cup: 2020