Passage 1:
Fernando Flaínez
Fernando Flaínez (fl. c. 1002  – c. 1049) was a powerful magnate from the Kingdom of León, member of the aristocratic lineage of the Flaínez. His parents were Flaín Muñoz and his wife Justa Fernández, daughter of  count Fernando Bermúdez de Cea. He was the paternal grandfather of Jimena Díaz, wife of Rodrigo Díaz de Vivar El Cid, and the direct ancestor of the important medieval noble lineage of the Osorios.  He married Elvira Peláez, daughter of Pelayo Rodríguez and Gotina Fernández de Cea, with whom he had at least seven children: Flaín, Oveco, Justa, Pedro, Pelayo, Muño and Diego. He was the tenente of Aguilar and documented with the title of count as of 1028.  Jointly with his son, Flaín Fernández, he governed the city of León until 1038 when the kingdom was already under the control of King Sancho III of Pamplona.

Biographical sketch
He first appears in medieval charters in 999 when, jointly with his brother Munio, confirmed a donation by the Bishop of León to the Monastery of Sahagún.  On 26 February 1020, he and his wife accompanied by several of his children founded the Monastery of San Martín de Pereda in Valle de Valdeburón which was subsequently incorporated in the Monastery of Benevívere. In this document, he mentions that he had inherited several of the properties being donated from Fredenando Uermudiz et Flanio Moniz,  his grandfather and father, respectively.
As a loyal vassal of King Alfonso V of León, he appears constantly confirming royal charters and was honored with the title of count at the end of the reign of Alfonso and at least from 1028. After the death of Alfonso V and the succession to the throne by Bermudo III of León, Fernando supported his first cousin King Sancho III of Navarre, although, at first, he accompanied the young monarch as evidenced in a donation made by Bermudo III in November 1028 to the Cathedral of Santiago de Compostela where he appears with other magnates confirming the royal charter. His presence in the curia regis of King Bermudo III was infrequent from 1029 until 1035 and this absence could be attributed to his involvement — active or behind the scenes — in the assassination of García Sánchez, Count of Castile in 1029 when García went to the city of León to meet Sancha, his promised bride and future wife of King Ferdinand I of León.He was back at the court of Bermudo III to whom he remained faithful until the king was killed in the Battle of Tamarón in 1037. Fernando Flaínez did not hand over the capital of the Kingdom of León to Ferdinand I until 1038 and kept all his honors and estates until his death, after 1049, the last year in which he appears in the charters of the Monastery of Sahagún.

Marriage and issue
He married his first cousin, Elvira Peláez, daughter of Count Pelayo Rodríguez and Countess Gotina Fernández, another daughter of Fernando Bermúdez de Cea, and as such, also a sister of Queen Jimena and of Justa Fernández, Fernando's mother. They were the parents of the following children, all except Justa born before February 1020, the date on which they appear confirming the donation made by their parents: 

Flaín Fernández (died before 1065), a count, husband of Toda Fernández and father of Martín Flaínez, ancestors of the Osorio;
Oveco Fernández, married to Onecca Gutiérrez;
Pedro Fernández
Pelayo Fernández (died after June 1049), royal alférez in 1039 and in 1050 and count as from 1043. He could have been the father of Flaín Peláez;
Munio Fernández (died after June 1049), also a count, married Elvira Peláez, daughter of Count Pelayo Froilaz the Deacon and Aldonza Ordóñez, daughter of the infantes Ordoño Ramírez and his wife Cristina Bermúdez. They were the parents of Countess Aldonza Muñoz, the wife of Count Vela Ovéquiz. He last appears in June 1049 with his brother Pelayo;
Diego Fernández, the father of Jimena Díaz, wife of El Cid;
Justa Fernández, named after her paternal grandmother, Justa was the second wife of Count Ansur Díaz and step-mother of powerful count Pedro Ansúrez On 29 September 1047, Justa and her husband founded the Monastery of San Román.

Notes
Passage 2:
Guillermo Fernández de Soto
Guillermo John Roque Fernández de Soto Valderrama (born 27 September 1953) is a Colombian lawyer and diplomat, who has served as Secretary General of the Andean Community of Nations, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Colombia, Ambassador of Colombia to the Kingdom of the Netherlands, and designated-Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotenciary, Permanent Representative of Colombia to the United Nations in New York.

Biography
Ambassador Fernandez de Soto holds a degree in law and economic sciences from Pontificia Universidad Javeriana and a Postgraduate degree in Socio-Economic Sciences from the same institution. He has had extensive experience in the field of international relations, Colombian diplomacy, academia, and in the professional practice in civil, commercial and international law.

Career
Early in his career, he worked as a Senior Specialist of the Organization of American States (OAS) Inter American Commission on Human Rights in Washington DC. He also served as Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs of Colombia (1985 – 1986) He worked in the Secretariat of the United Nations for the Commission of Truth in the peace process of El Salvador. Also, he worked for the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) for the preparation of the Special Economic Cooperation Plan for Central America.
In the commercial field, he was the President of the Chamber of Commerce of Bogotá (CCB) and held other positions such as President of the Ibero-American Association of Chambers of Commerce (AICO), General Director of the Inter-American Commercial Arbitration Commission, President of the Colombian Committee of the International Chamber of Commerce in Paris (ICC), President of the Colombian Committee of the Economic Council of the Pacific Basin (PBEC).
As well, he served as Member and Executive Secretary of the presidential Commission for the Colombo-Venezuelan border integration body 1988-1998.
He served as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Colombia from 1998 to 2002, a period during which he was also President of the Andean Council of Foreign Ministers and President of the United Nations Security Council (August, 2001). Later, he was Secretary General of the Andean Community until 2004.
He also served as Ambassador of Colombia to the Kingdom of the Netherlands (2004-2008), Permanent Representative of Colombia to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), Vice-President of the Tenth Conference of States Parties to the OPCW. In addition, he was the Representative of Colombia before the Administrative Council of the Permanent Court of Arbitration and Representative of Colombia before the Common Fund for Commodities.
Ambassador Fernández de Soto served as International Arbitrator in various disputes from Commercial and Administrative Law matters. He was also Co-agent before the International Court of Justice in the case of Aerial Spraying (Ecuador v. Colombia) and in the case of the Territorialand Maritime Dispute (Nicaragua v. Colombia). He was a member of the Inter-American Judicial Committee of the OAS and its president in 2011- 2012.
He was also President of the Colombian Council of International Relations (CORI). Most recently, he served as Corporate Director for Europe at CAF, the Development Bank of Latin America based in Madrid, Spain (2012-2018).
In the Academy, he served as the Dean of the Faculty of International Relations of the Universidad Jorge Tadeo Lozano in Bogotá, Executive Director of the International Studies Center “Interamerican Forum”. He has also participated in several academic publications as author and editor, and his articles have been published in several newspapers and magazines in Colombia.

Ambassador to the United Nations
He was appointed in September 2018 by the President of the Republic of Colombia as Ambassador to the United Nations. In 2019 he assumed the Presidency of the United Nations Peacebuilding Commission. The Peacebuilding Support Office was established in 2005 as an advisory body to Member States and its role is to contribute to the maintenance of peace through international support for peacebuilding initiatives in different areas and regions of the world.[1]
During his presidency, Fernandez de Soto visited Sierrea Leona, Loberia, Côte d'Ivoire and the African Union where he was able to witness the Commission's progress in peacebuilding. In January 2020 he handed over the presidency to the government of Canada while Colombia continues as vice president.

Decorations
National Order of Merit (Grand Officer) - France
Order of José Cecilio del Valle (Grand Cross) - Honduras
Order of Francisco de Miranda (First Class) - Venezuela
Order of the Liberator (Grand Cordon) - Venezuela
Order of the Liberator General San Martin (Grand Cross) - Argentina
Order of Bernardo O'Higgins (Grand Cross) - Chile
Order of the Merit of Chile (Grand Cross) - Chile
Order of the Sun (Grand Cross) - Peru
Order of Isabella the Catholic (Grand Cross) - Spain
Order of Simón Bolívar (Grand Cross) - Bolivia
Order of Honorato Vásquez (Grand Cross) -Ecuador
Order of the Aztec Eagle (Grand Band) - Mexico
Order of Boyacá (Grand Cross) - Colombia
Order of Vasco Núñez de Balboa (Grand Cross) -Panama
Order of Orange-Nassau (Grand Cross) - Netherlands

External links
Photo of Guillermo Fernández de Soto
Passage 3:
Diego Fernández de Oviedo
Diego Fernández (fl. 1020 – c. 1046), also known as Diego Fernández de Oviedo, was a member of one of the most noble lineages of the Kingdom of León as the son of Fernando Flaínez and Elvira Peláez, daughter of count Pelayo Rodríguez. He was the second cousin of King Ferdinand I since both shared the same great-grandfather, Count Fernando Bermúdez de Cea. Distinguished with the title of Count at an early age, Diego was the father of Jimena Díaz, wife of Rodrigo Díaz de Vivar El Cid.

Marriages and issue
Count Diego first married Elvira Ovéquiz, daughter of Count Oveco Sánchez and Countess Elo, who gave him two daughters: 

Onneca Mayor Díaz the wife of Gundemaro Iohannes (Ibáñez)
Aurovita Díaz, married to Munio Godestéiz,most probably the Muño Gustioz mentioned in the Cantar de Mio Cid who would have been the brother-in-law of Jimena Díaz who fought along with El Cid and accompanied Jimena during her widowhood.His second wife, probably named Cristina, was a daughter of Fernando Gundemáriz and granddaughter of Gundemaro Pinióliz. The documented offspring of this marriage were:

Rodrigo Díaz, count in Asturias, who, according to the charters in the Monastery of San Juan de Corias, could have married a Gontrodo with whom he had two daughters, Sancha a Mayor Rodríguez.
Fernando Díaz,  one of the most powerful magnates of his period, who first married Godo Gonzalez Salvadórez and then Enderquina Muñoz, daughter of Count Munio González.
Jimena Díaz, the wife of El Cid.

Notes
Passage 4:
Mariana Fernández de Córdoba y Ayala
Mariana Fernández de Córdoba y Ayala (c. 1394 – 1431), also known as Mariana de Ayala Córdoba y Toledo, was the fourth Lady of Casarrubios del Monte in the province of Toledo.  She was the daughter of Diego Fernández de Córdoba y Carrillo, first Lord of Baena, and Inés Ayala y Toledo, third Lady of Casarrubios del Monte.

Life
Mariana married Fadrique Enríquez de Mendoza, Admiral of Castile and Lord of Medina de Rioseco around July 1425.  They had one daughter, Juana Enríquez (1425–1468), who married  John II of Aragon.
Passage 5:
Diego Fernández de la Cueva, 1st Viscount of Huelma
Diego Fernández de la Cueva, 1st Viscount of Huelma (died 26 November 1473) was a Spanish nobleman.

Biography
Diego Fernández de la Cueva was born in Úbeda, Andalusia, Crown of Castille. He was a merchant and banker of King Henry IV of Castile, who granted him the title of 1st Viscount of Huelma.
He was related to or perhaps a descendant of Juan Sánchez de la Cueva, a nobleman from Úbeda, Regedor or Veinte y Quatro (24) of Úbeda in 1367, who rose pennant for the usurper Henry, Count of Trastamara, bribed by his generous promises. He was also a relative and a contemporary of another Diego de la Cueva, Alcalde of Caltinovo, married to María Cortés, whose daughter María Cortés married Rodrigo or Ruy Fernández de Monroy, paternal grandparents of Hernán Cortés.
He married Maior Alfonso de Mercado from Úbeda and had two sons. King Enrique IV, in his second year as King, travelled to Úbeda and stayed with Diego. When he left this house, he took Diego's second oldest son, Beltrán, with him to stay at Court to show his gratitude to Diego. (Diego offered Beltrán after Enrique asked for Diego's oldest son, whom Diego wanted to keep close by).

See also
Henry IV of Castile
Beltrán de la Cueva
War of the Castilian Succession

Notes
Passage 6:
Diego Fernández de Cevallos
Diego Fernández de Cevallos Ramos (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈdjeɣo feɾˈnandes ðe seˈβaʝos]; born 16 March 1941) is a Mexican politician affiliated with the conservative National Action Party (PAN). He was a  presidential candidate in the 1994 election and President of the Mexican Senate.

Life and career
Fernández de Cevallos was born in Mexico City, the son of José Fernández de Cevallos Martínez and Beatriz Ramos Íñigo. He received a bachelor's degree in law from the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) and took several courses in economics at the Ibero-American University, where he also worked as a professor of criminal and commercial law.
He joined the conservative National Action Party (PAN) in 1959 and led its parliamentary group in the Chamber of Deputies (during the 55th legislature) and in the Senate (2003–06). In 1994 he ran for president representing his party and lost against the PRI candidate, Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de León.
Outside politics, Fernández de Cevallos runs an influential law firm specialized in criminal, civil and commercial law. He was married only by the religious rite to Claudia Gutiérrez Navarrete. Currently he lives with his partner Liliana de León Maldonado.
At 80 years of age Fernández de Cevallos decided to join social media in order to persuade young people to adopt conservative values. President Andrés Manuel López Obrador (AMLO) responded to Fernández de Cevallos' criticisms of his government by showing a video of a debate they had in 2000.

Abduction
Fernández de Cevallos was abducted from one of his properties, located in Pedro Escobedo, Querétaro, on 14 May 2010. His abandoned vehicle was found nearby, with signs of a violent struggle. Fernandez de Cevallos' kidnappers demanded $100 million in exchange for his release, but decreased the amount. He was released from this abduction on December 20, 2010 in exchange for an amount that hasn't been officially disclosed by him or his family.

See also
List of kidnappings
List of solved missing person cases
Passage 7:
Diego Fernández de Cáceres y Ovando
Diego Fernández de Cáceres y Ovando (– Monleón, aft. February 2, 1487) was a Spanish military and nobleman.

Life
Diego Fernández de Cáceres y Ovando was a son of Fernán Blázquez de Cáceres y Mogollón, who granted a will at Cáceres in 1443, and wife Leonor Alfón de Ovando, daughter of Fernando Alfón de Ovando and wife Teresa Alfón (seventh grandparents in male line of the conqueror of the castle of Brindis, Italian city and sea port in the Adriatic, formerly called Brundisium and currently Brindisi, Francisco José de Ovando, 1st Marquis of Brindisi, and his brother Alonso Pablo de Ovando y Solís Rol de La Cerda, 2nd Marqués de Brindis), and paternal grandson of Fernán Blázquez de Cáceres and wife Juana González.
He was the 1st Lord of the Manor House del Alcázar Viejo, which place was granted de jure by Henry IV of Castile by Royal Cedule of July 16, 1473, famous Captain of the aforementioned King and of the Catholic Monarchs since 1475, Alcalde of Benquerencia and Monleón, where he passed on in 1487, having tested on February 2.
He was firstly married to Isabel Flores de las Varillas, Dame of Queen Isabel I of Castile, daughter of Rodrigo Flores de las Varillas, a distant relative of Hernán Cortés, and wife María Estebán Tejado de Paredes.
He grew up and learned the military art at the house of the Infant Lord King John II of Navarre and his services are historical.
They had at least two sons, first born Diego de Cáceres y Ovando and Nicolás de Ovando y Cáceres.
He was the ascendant of the Marqueses de Leganés (Mesía, on June 22, 1627, Grandees of Spain in 1640), Loriana (Velázquez-Dávila, December 19, 1591) and La Puebla de Ovanda (Velázquez-Dávila, March 10, 1627), Vizcondes de Penapardo, Condes de La Gomera with a Coat of Arms of de Herrera (de Herrera, 1487, also Señores de las Islas Canarias), de Oliva de Gaytan with a Coat of Arms of de Galarza (de Galarza, May 18, 1649), Fuenterubia, etc.
Passage 8:
Diego Fernández de Villalán
Diego Fernández de Villalán (died 7 Jul 1556) was a Roman Catholic prelate who served as the fourth Bishop of Almería (1523–1556).

Biography
Diego Fernández de Villalán was ordained a priest in the Order of Friars Minor. On 17 July 1523, he was selected by the King of Spain and confirmed by Pope Adrian VI as Bishop of Almería. He served as Bishop of Almería until his death on 7 July 1556.
Passage 9:
Diego Fernández de Ovando
Fray Diego Fernández de Ovando was a Spanish military and nobleman.

Life
Diego Fernández de Ovando was a son of Fernando Fernández de Ovando, second son, and wife Francisca de Ulloa, and paternal grandson of Fernando Fernández de Ovando, 1st Count of Torrelaguna and 1st Count of Uceda, and wife Ora Blázquez Trillo, Lady of Talamanca.
He was a Professed Knight of the Habit of Alcántara, Commander of Lares at the time of Master Don Nuno Chamiço elected in 1338.
He had a natural son, Fernando Alfón de Ovando.

Sources
Cunha, Fernando de Castro Pereira Mouzinho de Albuquerque e (1906-1998), Instrumentário Genealógico - Linhagens Milenárias. MCMXCV, p. 401
Passage 10:
Diego Fernández
Diego Fernández (c. 1520 – c. 1581) was a Spanish adventurer and historian of the 16th century.

Biography
Born at Palencia, he was educated for the church, but about 1545 he embarked for Peru, where he served in the royal army under Alonzo de Alvarado. Andres Hurtado de Mendoza, marquess of Cañete, who became viceroy of Peru in 1555, bestowed on Fernandez the office of chronicler of Peru; and in this capacity he wrote a narrative of the insurrection of Francisco Hernandez Giron, of the rebellion of Gonzalo Pizarro, and of the administration of Pedro de la Gasca. The whole work, under the title Primera y segunda parte de la Historia del Piru, was published at Seville in 1571 and was dedicated to King Philip II. It is written in a clear and intelligible style, and with more art than is usual in the compositions of the time. It gives copious details, and, as he had access to the correspondence and official documents of the Spanish leaders, it is, although necessarily possessing bias, the fullest and most authentic record existing of the events it relates.A notice of the work will be found in William H. Prescott's History of the Conquest of Peru (new ed., London, 1902).

See also
Inca Garcilaso de la Vega
Fray Martín de Murúa