Passage 1:
My Little Eye
My Little Eye is a 2002 British horror film directed by Marc Evans about five adults who agree to spend six months together in an isolated mansion while being filmed at all times. The idea for the film came from reality television shows such as Big Brother. The title refers to the guessing game I spy.

Plot
Five contestants, Matt (Sean Cw Johnson), Emma (Laura Regan), Charlie (Jennifer Sky), Danny (Stephen O'Reilly) and Rex (Kris Lemche), agree to take part in a reality webcast, where they must spend six months in a house to win $1 million. If anyone leaves, then no one wins the money. Nearing the end of the six months, tension between the contestants rises after Emma finds strange messages she believes are from a man from her past and the food packages arrive containing a letter that claims Danny's grandfather has died, and a gun with five bullets.
One night, a man named Travis Patterson (Bradley Cooper) arrives, claiming he is lost in the woods and that his GPS has died. Despite claiming to be an internet programmer, he claims to not recognize any of the contestants or ever having heard of the show. Later that night, Travis has sex with Charlie, and then secretly talks directly into a camera, to communicate with whoever is watching them. The next morning, Travis leaves and Danny discovers his backpack outside covered in blood and shredded to pieces. The contestants assume he was attacked by an animal but Rex believes Travis works for the people running their show and that it is all a trick to make them leave the house and forfeit the prize money.
Emma discovers her underwear among Danny’s belongings and confronts him, unaware that Travis planted them there the previous night. Danny denies it and attempts to make peace by giving her a crudely carved wooden cat, which Emma and Charlie ridicule, while Danny overhears.
The next morning, the group finds Danny has committed suicide by hanging himself from the staircase balcony with a rope. The guests finally decide to leave, but after being unable to contact anyone via radio, decide to wait until the next morning. Rex uses the GPS unit from Travis' bag and his laptop to gain access to the internet to find out more about the show but is unable to find any evidence of their show online.
Rex is only able to find a heavily encrypted beta site, that requires a $50,000 fee to access, and displays a web page with their pictures and betting odds. The group decides they will leave the next morning, though Rex and Emma go up to the roof to set off a flare. While Charlie and Matt remain in the house, Matt asks a camera if he should kill her, before suffocating her with a plastic bag.
Later, while Emma is sleeping, Rex comes downstairs and is decapitated with an axe by Matt. Matt awakens Emma and brings her up to the attic, telling her he is being chased and the others are dead. He then makes advances on Emma, who refuses, and attempts to rape her, before she stabs him in the back and runs off.
Emma runs outside and finds a police officer, who handcuffs her inside the car and enters the house. An injured Matt then crawls out, begging the cop to let him kill Emma, since he spent six months in the house with her. Realizing they are working together, Emma escapes the car and tries to run but is shot in the back with a rifle by the cop.
Matt and the cop sit in the kitchen discussing the setup they created with Travis for their high paying clients who want to witness the murders. When the cop says there are always "five suckers" to play the game with, Matt corrects him to four, and is then shot in the head. The cop then leaves, talking to Travis over the radio, while Emma is seen locked in a small room, unable to escape. As she collapses screaming, the cameras filming all shut off, one by one.

Cast
Sean Cw Johnson as Matt
Kris Lemche as Rex
Stephen O'Reilly as Danny
Laura Regan as Emma
Jennifer Sky as Charlie
Nick Mennell as The Cop
Bradley Cooper as Travis Patterson

Home media
My Little Eye is available on DVD from MCA/Universal Home Video with most of the special features available on the Region 2 Special Edition including a filmmakers' commentary and deleted scenes. There is an audio mode "Conversations of the Company (Eavesdropping Audio Track)" which allows the viewer to listen to the radio conversations between the members of the company: Travis and "the cop". However, during this mode, the viewer cannot hear all of the dialogue of the cast in the scene. A UK release contains a 'Special Mode' where viewers see the film from the perspective of an internet subscriber, and more extra features become unlocked as the film goes on. You can watch other things going on in 'the house' in real time to what's happening in the film.

Reception
The film received polarized but positive reviews and holds 67% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 21 reviews, with an average score of 5.2/10.

See also
List of films featuring surveillance
Passage 2:
The PyraMMMid
The PyraMMMid (Russian: ПираМММида, romanized: PiraMMMida) is a 2011 Russian crime drama directed by Eldar Salavatov. The plot is based on the partially biographical story "Pyramid" by Sergei Mavrodi.

Plot
Russia, early 1990s. Sergei Mamontov is looking for where to apply himself and his intellect. And so he orders a mock-up of a security paper with imperial script, rich ornament, watermarks and his own portrait in the center.
An active advertising campaign begins. A little more than two weeks is enough to make people line up for the "mamontovs" ("mamontovki" in Russian). Powerful bankers and state structures are in confusion – no one has a clue how to stop it, and the MMM has already accumulated more than 10 million investors.
Furthermore, Mamontov is concerned that there are no rich people in the country, and all Soviet industry is exposed to privatization. He accumulates "private greeds" and decides to carry out an honest privatization. His way is blocked by the agent of Western imperialism - Belyavsky (an allusion to Boris Berezovsky) with his MegaVAZ-bank (an allusion to LogoVAZ). Belyavsky comes from the top - he makes connections in the Kremlin and is in charge of television. Belyavsky proposes to share Russia. Mamontov refuses: "I do not trade with Russia!", which attracts the financial inspectorate, who, without checking documents, imposes unthinkable demands for paying taxes upon him, which Mamontov executes. There is still enough money to ruin the bank of Belyavsky. In the country by that time are already 20 million investors and every week the number increases by a million, the "mamontov's" goes on par with ruble. Mamontov threatens to seize power with the help of investors who are facing ruin. During a one-minute audience with the President, Mamontov appears as a guardian for the state amid a corrupt environment and asks for a change in the law - to allow foreigners to be involved in their financial system in order to subordinate the Western oligarchy and thereby make Boris Yeltsin's Russia leader of the world. But Belyavsky begins to threaten the life of Mamontov's daughter and he eventually falls into a trap. On the Ostankino Tower, the battered Mamontov again refuses to cooperate with Belyavsky, despite the proposed opportunity to become the "head of state". Mamontov hopes to leave with his daughter, defending himself by having a recording of a conversation with a representative of the FCS (where he offered similar "privileges"), from his assistant Vera, but she, escaping from the people of Belyavsky, drops the recording in a park and on charges of non-payment of taxes, Mamontov gets in prison and comes out after 7 years.

Cast
Aleksei Serebryakov – Sergey Mamontov
Fyodor Bondarchuk – Belyavsky
Pyotr Fyodorov – Anton
Ekaterina Vilkova – Vera
Anastasia Richie – Button
Nikita Salopin – Zotik
Sergey Koltakov – Prime Minister
Yuri Tsurilo – General
Oleksiy Gorbunov – Colonel
Artyom Mikhalkov – major
Igor Yatsko – Rezo
Daniil Spivakovsky – Gutov
Anna Mikhalkova  – wife of Mamontov
Vladimir Permyakov – Lyonya Golubkov (cameo)
Bogdan Titomir – cameo

See also
Sergei Mavrodi
MMM
Passage 3:
The Fabulous Senorita
The Fabulous Senorita is a 1952 American musical comedy film directed by R. G. Springsteen and starring Estelita Rodriguez, Robert Clarke and Nestor Paiva. The film came at the tail-end of a cycle of Latin American-themed films, though it did introduce a new star, Rita Moreno.

Plot
Cast
Estelita Rodriguez as Estelita Rodriguez
Robert Clarke as Jerry Taylor
Nestor Paiva as José Rodriguez
Marvin Kaplan as Clifford Van Kunkle
Rita Moreno as Manuela Rodríguez
Leon Belasco as Señor Gonzales
Tito Renaldo as Pedro Sanchez
Tom Powers as Delaney
Emory Parnell as Dean Bradshaw
Olin Howland as Justice of the Peace
Vito Scotti as Esteban Gonzales
Martin Garralaga as Police Captain Garcia
Nita Del Rey as Felice
Joan Blake as Betty
Frances Dominguez as Amelia
Betty Farrington as Janitress
Norman Field as Dr. Campbell
Clark Howat as Davis
Frank Kreig as Cab Driver
Dorothy Neumann as Mrs. Black
Elizabeth Slifer as Wife of Justice of the Peace
Charles Sullivan as Cab Driver
Arthur Walsh as Pete
Passage 4:
Revolt of Ghent
Revolt of Ghent may refer to:

Revolt of Ghent (1379–1385), a rebellion by the city of Ghent against Louis II, Count of Flanders
Revolt of Ghent (1449–53), a rebellion by the city of Ghent against Charles the Bold, Duke of Burgundy
Revolt of Ghent (1539), an uprising by the citizens of Ghent against Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor
Passage 5:
The Night of Nights
The Night of Nights is a 1939 black-and-white drama film written by Donald Ogden Stewart and directed by Lewis Milestone for Paramount Pictures that starred Pat O'Brien, Olympe Bradna, and Roland Young.The film received positive contemporary reviews from publications such as The New York Times. Director Milestone went on to other successful productions after the film came out, including Ocean's 11 and Pork Chop Hill.

Background
Milestone directed The Night of Nights nine years after winning the 1930 Academy Award for Best Director for All Quiet on the Western Front.

Plot
Dan O'Farrell (Pat O'Brien) is a brilliant Broadway theater playwright, actor, and producer who has left the business.  When he was younger, he and his partner Barry Keith-Trimble (Roland Young) were preparing for the opening night of O'Farell's play Laughter by getting drunk.  When it was time to perform, they were so intoxicated they ended up brawling on stage and fell into the orchestra pit.  The two left the theater and continued drinking, until they learn that they have been suspended. At the same time, O'Farrell learns that his wife, actress Alyce Martelle, is pregnant and has left him for ruining her performance in Laughter as Toni.  Despondent, he in left the business and went into seclusion.
Years later, his daughter Marie (Olympe Bradna) locates him and inspires him to return to Broadway.  He decides to restage Laughter with its original cast, but with Marie substituting for Alyce in the part of Toni.  Hoping to make a glorious return with a show that would be a hit with critics and the public alike, O'Farrell enlists the aid of friends to embark on a full-fledged comeback.

Cast
Reception
Frank S. Nugent wrote for The New York Times that the work of actors Pat O'Brien and Roland Young, had "been a labor of love and the film has profited accordingly." In noting that the plot centered on "the theatre and some of the curious folk who inhabit it", the newspaper's review stated that the film had an acceptable sentimentality and shared that the story was "an uncommonly interesting study of a man's mind, subtly written and directed, presented with honesty and commendable sincerity by Mr. O'Brien, Mr. Young and Olympe Bradna, and well worth any one's attention." The only objection in the review was that the stage play Laughter, the piece being produced within the film by O'Brien's character of Dan O'Farrell, "seemed to be the most awful tripe."
Passage 6:
Revolt of the Barbarians
Revolt of the Barbarians (Italian: La rivolta dei barbari) is a 1964 Italian film directed by Guido Malatesta.

Plot
After several years abroad fighting numerous campaigns in Gaul, Darius, commander of the 10th Legion, is finally able to return to Rome with his men. After discovering an ambushed Roman convoy and shortly meeting First Proconsul Claudius, Darius learns of a theft made on the convoy with gold intended to pay Roman legionnaires for their service. Darius then must track down the thieves and recover the gold before he is allowed to return home with his legion.

Cast
Roland Carey as Darius
Maria Grazia Spina as Lydia
Mario Feliciani
Gabriele Antonini as Domitius
Andrea Aureli
Susan Sullivan
Gaetano Scala
Franco Beltramme
Gilberto Galimberti

External links
Revolt of the Barbarians at IMDb
Revolt of the Barbarians (dubbed in English) is available for free viewing and download at the Internet Archive
Passage 7:
Revolt of the Praetorians
La Rivolta dei Pretoriani (AKA: Revolt of the Praetorians) is a 1964 sword and sandal film about the conspiracy to assassinate the emperor Domitian in the year AD 96, though the historical facts have been heavily fictionized. This film was written by Gian Paolo Callegari, directed by Alfonso Brescia in his directorial debut and starred Richard Harrison, Moira Orfei, Giuliano Gemma and Piero Lulli as Emperor Domitian.

Plot
In Ancient Rome, at about 96 AD, Emperor Domitian has become a highly paranoid and tyrannical despot who keeps the people oppressed in constant fear of a revolt. He has only a few retainers left whom he perceives as loyal: his lover Artamne, a scheming Egyptian priestess of Isis; his diminutive jester, Elpidion; his gladiator bodyguards under the command of Soterus; his palace guards; and his Imperial Praetorian Guard under the command of their centurion, Valerius Rufus. Anyone who dares speak up against the Emperor - and may it be only a minor complaint - or is suspected of treason is either imprisoned or summarily executed.
Although Valerius appears loyal, he secretly harbors resentment against the tyrant, but is careful not to reveal it. He begins fighting Domitian's rule in a masked identity; when he begins to use a red wolf's coat to hide his face, he becomes known as the "Red Wolf". Among his allies are the young senator Nerva and the old patrician Fabius Lucillius and his family, especially Fabius' daughter Lucilla, Valerius' love interest.
One day, Artamne persuades Domitian to hold a sacrificial celebration in the Imperial palace, forcing Lucilla and other patrician daughters to attend and to be subjected to exploitation by the Emperor's lust. Valerius manages to prevent this, but as he hides his mask in a secret cache in the palace garden, he is spotted by Elpidion. The next day, Valerius arranges for Lucilla, the other girls and the fugitives he has rescued to flee to Lucillius' country estate. When he returns to his quarters, he discovers Elpidion, clad in his wolfpelt mask, waiting for him, but the dwarf declares that he, too, hates Domitian and wants to join his cause. He tells of Domitian and Artamne's plan to arrest and execute all patricians suspected of treason, and Valerius, as the Red Wolf, arrives just in time to help his friends escape to Lucillius' estate.
The fugitives finally decide to organize an armed resistance movement, and Valerius kidnaps Artamne as a hostage. But in time, Artamne manages to charm one of her guards into releasing her; she returns to Domitian and reveals the location of the rebels' hideout. Domitian sends out Soterus and his gladiators to eliminate the rebels. Valerius, alerted by Elpidion, fights them, allowing his friends to escape, but is wounded in the arm and Lucilla is captured. While Valerius manages to temporarily hide his secret by putting his mask onto one of his killed friends, Soterus notices the injury and exposes him. Valerius manages to escape, but as he later tries to free Lucilla from captivity, he is captured himself and both are sentenced to death.
In the dungeons, however, Valerius is approached by his loyal friend and subordinate in the guard, Sejanus, who reveals that the Praetorian Guards are also resentful of Domitian's tyranny and wish to overthrow him. Valerius sends him to contact his fugitive friends, and together with a group of disgruntled travelling artists the rebels prepare to free the two and overthrow Domitian when Valerius and Lucilla are to be executed in the palace garden the following night.
With Elpidion's aid, the rebel's main group enters the palace through the dungeons and takes the Emperor and his retinue by surprise. Artamne and Soterus are killed in the struggle, and with the appearance of the Praetorian Guardsmen, the battle is quickly ended. Domitian makes it as far as his throne room with Lucilla as his hostage, but Valerius follows him and kills him in the ensuing duel, ending his tyranny.

Cast
Richard Harrison as Valerius Rufus
Moira Orfei as Artamne
Piero Lulli as Domitian
Giuliano Gemma as Nerva
Paola Pitti as Lucilla
Ivy Holzer as Zusa
Fedele Gentile as Fabius Lucilius
Amedeo Trilli as Il guardiano della cava ("the Cave Guard")
Mirko Ellis as Sejanus
Renato Montalbano as Soterus
Salvatore Furnari as Elpidion
Massimo Carocci
Aldo Cecconi as Soterus

See also
List of historical drama films
Passage 8:
The Revolt of the Slaves
The Revolt of the Slaves (Italian: La rivolta degli schiavi) is a 1960 Italian film directed by Nunzio Malasomma. It is based on the 1854 novel Fabiola by Nicholas Wiseman.

Cast
Rhonda Fleming: Claudia
Lang Jeffries: Vibio
Darío Moreno: Massimiano
Ettore Manni: Sebastiano
Wandisa Guida: Agnese
Gino Cervi: Claudio
Fernando Rey: Valerio
Serge Gainsbourg: Corvino
José Nieto: Sesto, servitore di Claudia
Rainer Penkert: Massimo
Antonio Casas: Tertulio
Dolores Francine: Liubaia

Release
The Revolt of the Slaves was released in Italy on 20 December 1960 with a 100-minute running time and in the United States with a 102-minute running time in June 1961. It was released in West Germany as Die Sklaven Roms on 17 March 1961.

See also
List of Italian films of 1960
Passage 9:
Operation Leopard
La légion saute sur Kolwezi, also known as Operation Leopard, is a French war film directed by Raoul Coutard and filmed in French Guiana. The script is based on the true story of the Battle of Kolwezi that happened in 1978. It was diligently described in a book of the same name by former 1st Foreign Parachute Regiment Captain Pierre Sergent. He published his book in 1979, and the film came out in 1980. Coutard shot the film in a documentary style.

Plot
The film is based on true events. In 1978, approximately 3,000 heavily armed fighters from Katanga crossed the border to the Zaire and marched into Kolwezi, a mining centre for copper and cobalt. They took 3,000 civilians as hostages. Within a few days, between 90 and 280 hostages were killed. The rebels appeared to be unpredictable and are reported to have threatened to annihilate all civilians.
Mobutu Sese Seko, Zaire's head of state, urged Belgium, France and the United States to help. France sent the Foreign Legion's 2nd Foreign Parachute Regiment, which were flown from Corsica to Kolwezi. Following their arrival, they secured the perimeter, in co-operation with Belgian soldiers from Zaire, and then started to evacuate the civilians. Within two days more than 2,000 Europeans and about 3,000 African citizens were saved. The film strives to depict the events in a dramatised form, concentrating on the Europeans' plight.

Production
The late Jean Seberg had filmed scenes on location for the film, but her death caused her to be replaced by another French American actress, Mimsy Farmer, who reshot Seberg's scenes.

Cast
Bruno Cremer: Pierre Delbart
Jacques Perrin:Ambassador Berthier
Laurent Malet: Phillipe Denrémont
Pierre Vaneck: Colonel Grasser
Mimsy Farmer: Annie Devrindt
Giuliano Gemma: Adjudant Fédérico
Robert Etcheverry : Colonel Dubourg
Jean-Claude Bouillon : Maurois
Passage 10:
Army of Lovers or Revolt of the Perverts
Army of Lovers or Revolt of the Perverts (German: Armee der Liebenden oder Aufstand der Perversen)  is a 1979 German documentary film directed by Rosa von Praunheim.For example, the film was shown at the University of California's Berkeley Art Museum and Pacific Film Archive in 1982.

Plot
The film is about the state and development of the LGBT movement in the US after the Stonewall riots of 1969.

Awards
1979: Nomination for the Gold Hugo at the Chicago International Film Festival

Reception
J. Hoberman wrote in the Village Voice: "Army of Lovers has its own moments of sentimental stridency, but it´s a heartfelt, challenging, and often stirring film that deserves the widest possible audience."

Notes