Passage 1:
Frederick Hibbard
Frederick Cleveland Hibbard  (June 15, 1881 – December 12, 1950) was an American sculptor based in Chicago. Hibbard is best remembered for his Civil War memorials, produced to commemorate both the Union and Confederate causes.
Born and raised in Canton, Missouri, he graduated from the University of Missouri before deciding to be a sculptor. He studied with Lorado Taft at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago.Hibbard was a member of the National Sculpture Society and exhibited at their 1923 show held in New York City.

Selected works
Carter H. Harrison, Union Park, Chicago, Illinois, 1907.
Samuel Langhorne Clemens (Mark Twain), Riverview Park, Hannibal, Missouri, 1913.
Volney Rogers Memorial, Mill Creek Park, Youngstown, Ohio, 1920
Bust of John Ross Callahan, Ohio State University College of Dentistry, Columbus, Ohio, 1923.
Relief portrait of Jefferson Davis, bronze, Jefferson Davis Monument State Historic Site, Fairview, Kentucky, 1924.
Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn at the Foot of Cardiff Hill, Cardiff Hill, North & Main Streets, Hannibal, Missouri, 1926.
Jefferson Davis, marble, Kentucky State Capitol, Frankfort, Kentucky, 1936.
Jefferson Davis, bronze, Alabama State Capitol, Montgomery, Alabama,  1940.
Abraham and Mary Todd Lincoln Monument, East Park, Racine, Wisconsin, 1943.

Military monuments and memorials
Statue of bald eagle on Illinois Memorial, Vicksburg National Military Park, 1906.
Confederate Soldier Monument, Monroe County Courthouse, Forsyth, Georgia, 1907–08.
General James Shields, Carroll County Courthouse, Carrollton, Missouri,  1910.
A replica is at the Minnesota State Capitol in Saint Paul.
Artillery, Cavalry, Infantry, Navy, Sedgwick County Soldiers and Sailors Monument, Wichita, Kansas, 1913. E. M. Viquesney designed the monument and modeled the Victory figure atop its dome.
Confederate Memorial, erected by the United Daughters of the Confederacy, Shiloh National Military Park, 1917
Col. Alexander Doniphan, Ray County Courthouse, Richmond, Missouri, 1917–18.
Equestrian Statue of General Ulysses S. Grant, Vicksburg National Military Park, Vicksburg, Mississippi,  1919.
Col. David N. Foster, Swinney Park, Ft. Wayne, Indiana, 1922.
Parade Rest and Lookout, Soldiers and Sailors National Military Museum and Memorial, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 1923.
James Pendergast Memorial, Case Park, Kansas City, MO. 1913.
Fawn fountain, at Promontory Point (Chicago)
Passage 2:
Frederick Cleveland Morgan
Frederick Cleveland Morgan D.C.L. LL. D (also known as F. C. Morgan, F. Cleveland Morgan and informally as Cleve Morgan) (1 December 1881 – 3 October 1962) was a Canadian department store heir, art collector, museum manager, and philanthropist.

Career
F. Cleveland Morgan was the great nephew of Henry Morgan, founder of  Morgan’s Department stores, which were sold to the Hudson's Bay Company in the early sixties. At age 18, he entered Trinity College, Cambridge. He received an M.A. degree in zoology from McGill University in 1904 and then entered the family business Henry Morgan and Company till 1952 when he retired. There, as Vice-President, he was responsible for display, special events and the art and antique departments. Persistent eye problems (he had lost an eye in an accident when he was seven) led to his dedicating his life to building the decorative arts collection that defines the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts.He was made the first curator of Decorative Arts at the Art Association of Montreal, now the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts and held the position from 1916 until his death in 1962. Under his direction, the collection amassed more than 70,000 works (around 150 every year.) Among his acquisitions were the first Inuit artworks acquired by the Museum; he made these acquisitions in 1953.Denys Sutton of the Apollo magazine believed Morgan was one of the most perceptive connoisseurs of his day in North America. Morgan's "outstanding judgement of quality and discernment" is reflected in the objects he gave (896 in his own name, 262 from his family ),, talked family and friends into purchasing and donating or purchased for the collection. His gifts constituted nearly his entire personal collection but there were many more that came to the collection through his astute knowledge of the art field and influence. These gifts are estimated at about a thousand.Another area of interest for him was the breeding of Siberian irises in which he was a pioneer. He was founding member of the American Iris Society. Some of his magnificent cultivars still enhance gardens around the globe.In 1912, he built a country home in Senneville, Quebec, and called it Le Sabot. It was designed by David Shennan and today is considered an important monument of the Arts and Crafts movement in Canada and designated as a Historic Site of Canada. He also is responsible for the establishment of the Morgan Arboretum, given to McGill University in 1985. Frederick Cleveland Morgan died in Senneville on October 3, 1962. He is buried in the Cimetière Mont-Royal
Outremont, Montreal Region, Quebec.

Honours
1954 Doctor of Civil Law degree Bishop's University.
1960 Hon. Doctor of Laws McGill University.
1970 (posthumous) Award of Merit by the Royal Horticultural Society for creating the 'Mount Royal' iris.
2014 Designated a Person of National Historic Interest.
Passage 3:
Leota Morgan
Leota Morgan (sometimes credited as Leota Statten Morgan or Leota Morgan Boehm) was an American screenwriter, playwright, and writer. She was born in Missouri to Samuel Morgan and Della Quinn.

Selected works
Films:

The Phantom of the Turf (1928)
Heroes in Blue (1927)
A Light in the Window (1927)
The Truth About Women (1924)
Gambling Wives (1924)
The Empty Cradle (1923)
Man and Wife (1923)
None So Blind (1923)
The Streets of New York (1922)
White Hell (1922)
Common Sense (1920)Plays:

The 11th Woman
The Streets of New York
Banks of the Hudson
Tiger-DoveNovels:

Cheating Wives
Passage 4:
Nate James (disambiguation)
Nathan, Nate or Nathaniel James may refer to:

USS Nathan James, a fictional ship in The Last Ship
Nate James (born 1979), singer-songwriter
Nate James (American football) (born 1945), American football player
Nate James (basketball) (born 1977), American basketball player and coach

See also
All pages with titles containing Nathan James
All pages with titles containing Nathaniel James
Passage 5:
Hélène Grenier
Hélène Grenier was a Canadian librarian born in 1900 who died in 1992.

Biography
She was director of school libraries for the Catholic School Commission of Montreal from 1933 to 1961. A musician, she published in 1947 a monograph entitled The Symphonic Music of Monteverde to Beethoven. She was the granddaughter of former Quebec premier Félix-Gabriel Marchand.
Grenier's archives are kept in the Montreal archives center of the Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec.
Passage 6:
Nathaniel McLenaghan
Nathaniel McLenaghan (November 11, 1841 – September 26, 1912) was an Ontario merchant and political figure. He represented Lanark South in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1890 to 1893 as a Conservative member.
He was born in Drummond Township, Canada West in 1841, the son of Irish immigrants, and educated in Perth. He taught school for several years before becoming involved in exporting cattle. McLenaghan served on the town council for Perth. He was named deputy customs collector at Perth in 1893 and customs collector in 1897.
He died at Perth in 1912.
Passage 7:
Frances Lasker Brody
Frances Lasker Brody (1916–2009) was an American arts advocate, collector, and philanthropist who influenced the development of Los Angeles' cultural life as a founding benefactor of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and later as a guiding patron of the Huntington Library, Art Collections and Gardens.Mrs. Brody, who died on November 12, 2009, at 93, was the wife of Sidney F. Brody, a real estate developer who died in 1983, and the stepdaughter of Mary Lasker, a philanthropist and champion of medical research who died in 1994. The Brodys lived in a modernist house in the Holmby Hills neighborhood of Los Angeles that was designed by the architect A. Quincy Jones and the decorator William Haines to show off the couple’s collection.

Early life
Frances Lasker was born May 27, 1916, in Chicago to Flora Lasker (née Warner) and Albert Lasker, who built the advertising firm of Lord & Thomas. Albert Lasker was known in the advertising world for campaigns that popularized Kleenex tissues, Lucky Strike cigarettes and Sunkist orange juice. She studied political science, English and history at Vassar College, where she graduated in 1937.After college, she worked briefly as a model and saleswoman at a dress shop near Chicago. During World War II, while serving in a volunteer ambulance corps, she met Sidney Brody, a decorated Army lieutenant colonel who flew missions in Europe. They were married in 1942.After the war, the couple moved to Los Angeles, where he built a fortune as a developer of shopping centers. He died in 1983.

Art collection and auction
At the suggestion of Brody's father and her stepmother, medical philanthropist Mary Lasker, she and Sidney began collecting art. Through her work with the UCLA Art Council, which was founded in the early 1950s, she fell in love with a Henry Moore sculpture. "Sid put it under the Christmas tree. And well, by then I guess we were hooked," she told the Los Angeles Times in 1969.With her late husband, Sidney, she played a major role in the launch of LACMA, which opened in 1965, and for many years was a force on the UCLA Art Council, which she helped found and served as president. Under her leadership, the council mounted an important exhibition on the works of Pablo Picasso for his 80th birthday in 1961. She was the catalyst for a major Matisse retrospective at UCLA in 1966 that, with its unprecedented loans from the Matisse family, was what Los Angeles Times critic Henry J. Seldis called "one of the most ambitious exhibitions ever organized locally."
Brody was a member of the Huntington's board of overseers for 20 years, playing a crucial early role in the development of its Chinese garden.Sotheby's and Christie's competed for four months for the auction with an original estimated value of $150 million. The Brody collection was a huge success, totaling $224.17 million. Because Brody was passionate about gardens, some of the sale’s proceeds were to go to the Huntington Library.A Picasso painting, Nu au Plateau de Sculpteur (Nude, Green Leaves and Bust), was the jewel of the collection and estimated to bring more than $80 million. The painting sold for a $95 million bid, which with the sale charge raised the full price to $106.48 million. Painted in rich blues, pinks and greens, it depicts the artist’s mistress Marie-Thérèse Walter asleep naked; above her, a bust of her head rests on a pedestal. The couple bought the painting from Paul Rosenberg, a New York dealer, who acquired it from Picasso in 1936. Picasso painted several canvases of Marie-Thérèse Walter that year, including Le Rêve, (The Dream), which belongs to the casino owner Stephen A. Wynn.A bust by Alberto Giacometti, Grande tête mince (1954), was expected to sell for $25 million to $35 million. His bronze La main (1948) sold for $25 million. The bronze figure of a cat by Giacometti, cast in 1955, sold for $20.8 million.Georges Braque’s La Treille set a world record for the painter at $10.16 million. A Marino Marini bronze of a rider, Piccolo cavaliere, followed at $2.32 million, also more than the highest estimate. Picasso’s Femme au chat assise dans un fauteuil, painted in 1964, sold for $18 million.In 1951, the Brodys purchased Camille Pissarro’s “Rue Saint-Honoré, dans l’après-midi. Effet de pluie” from the Frank Perls Gallery. The Pissarro is the object of a long-running claim for restitution for Nazi-looted art. The Pissarro had been acquired by the Nazi appraiser Jackob Scheidwimmer from Lilly Cassirer and her husband Otto Neubauer, seized by the Gestapo, and auctioned at a Nazi auction before being smuggled from Germany to California and sold at the Frank Perls Gallery. The Brodys resold the Pissarro via Knoedler in 1952 and, after more transactions it ended up via the Stephen Hahn Gallery in the collection of  Baron Thyssen-Bornemisza.

House
In 1949, the couple commissioned a modernist house in Holmby Hills by architect A. Quincy Jones and interior designer William Haines. The house combined two fashionable contemporary styles: California mid-century Modernist architecture and sophisticated Hollywood Moderne décor. The house became a gathering spot for a cross-section of the city's elite, from old Los Angeles families such as the Chandlers to Hollywood icons Gary Cooper and Joan Crawford and also served as a showcase for a stunning art collection.Shortly after the house was completed, the Brodys commissioned Henri Matisse in 1952 to execute a massive ceramic-tile wall mural, one of few the artist ever made, for their courtyard. In 1953 they traveled to France to review his preliminary maquette. The story of Frances’s polite resistance to Matisse’s first cut-out design and how she persuaded the artist to provide alternatives is now legend. Matisse eventually created a 12-by-11-foot ceramic-tile wall mural for the courtyard. It was later donated to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.The Brody House was listed for sale in May 2010 for $24.95 million, the same week the Brody's art collection hit the auction block at Christie's in New York. The 11,500-square-foot (1,070 m2) home at 360 South Mapleton Drive, next door to the Playboy Mansion, sits on 2.3 acres (9,300 m2) and includes a tennis court and a pool with a guesthouse. It was designed with a modernist décor that includes a floating staircase and floor-to-ceiling glass windows that create an indoor-outdoor living space considered cutting edge at the time.The Brody House was sold for $14.8 million in late December 2010. The investor/owner spent three years working with the Los Angeles Conservancy to restore the house. In 2014, Ellen DeGeneres bought the house for $39.888 million in an off-market deal.
Passage 8:
David Scotus
David Scotus was a Gaelic chronicler who died in 1139.

Biography
His date of birth is unknown. Early in the twelfth century there was at Würzburg an ecclesiastic and teacher known as David. His surname Scotus shows that he was probably a Gael from either Ireland or Scotland, if he is identical with the homonymous  Bishop of Bangor, from Wales (see below).
According to Ekkehard's Chronicon, Emperor Henry V received him, was charmed with his virtue and knowledge, and made him one of the imperial chaplains. With other scholars, David accompanied Henry on his expedition to Italy in 1110, and was appointed royal historiographer for the occasion with the intention, perhaps, of drafting the emperor's relatio, a brief narrative stringing together the documents of the intended treaty and presenting his master's achievements in the best light. The expedition did not go to plan, with the incumbent Pope Pascal II at first refusing to crown Henry and his wife, Matilda, relenting only after two months of imprisonment. The work written by David has been lost, although it was used as authority in the writings of William of Malmesbury and Ordericus Vitalis.He died in 1139.

Writings
His work in three books is now known only from excerpts of it in later historians, especially in Ekkehard and William of Malmesbury. The latter says that David described the expedition with partiality for the king.

Possibly identical homonym
A certain David was consecrated Bishop of Bangor in Wales, 4 April 1120; according to Malmesbury he was none other than the chaplain David Scotus. As bishop he took part in several English synods, and probably died in 1139, since his successor was then consecrated. But it is not easy to reconcile with the foregoing, the statement of the later historian Trithemius, that David became a monk under St. Macharius in the monastery of St. James in Würzburg, as this abbey was not founded until 1140.

See also
Aaron Scotus (died 1052)
Blessed Marianus Scotus (died circa 1088)
Joseph Scottus (died near 800), Irish deacon, scholar, diplomat, poet, and ecclesiastic
Johannes Scotus Eriugena (circa 815–877), Irish theologian
Marianus Scotus (circa 1028–1082), Irish monk
Marianus Scotus (died c. 1088), Irish abbot of St Peter's at Ratisbon (Regensburg)
Sedulius Scottus (9th century), Irish teacher, grammarian and Scriptural commentator

Notes
Sources
 Herbermann, Charles, ed. (1913). "David Scotus". Catholic Encyclopedia. New York: Robert Appleton Company.

 This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Herbermann, Charles, ed. (1913). Catholic Encyclopedia. New York: Robert Appleton Company. {{cite encyclopedia}}: Missing or empty |title= (help)
Passage 9:
Nathanael Salmon
Nathanael (or Nathaniel) Salmon (22 March 1675 – 2 April 1742) was an English antiquary who wrote books on Roman and other antiquities to be found in the south-east of England. He was not well respected as a scholar in his time or subsequently, but he was industrious and well travelled, and he recorded many local customs and much folklore.

Early life
Nathanael Salmon was born on 22 March 1675 at Meppershall Rectory, Bedfordshire, the eldest son of Thomas Salmon, the Rector, and his wife Katherine Bradshaw. He was educated at Corpus Christi College, Cambridge (LLB, 1695).

Career
Salmon was ordained a priest in 1699, but refused to swear allegiance to Queen Anne in 1702 and thereby reject the son of King James II. He resigned as a curate and worked for a time as a physician. He rejected the offer of a parish in Suffolk, although it paid a stipend of £140 a year.Salmon wrote a number of books on local history, collecting folklore and detailing local customs, and he "could turn a pungent phrase." He travelled extensively in England, carefully observing landscape and recording what he was told of the folklore, as well as current life and conditions. His histories are considered inaccurate, but he usefully published much manuscript material.

Death
Salmon died in London on 2 April 1742, leaving three daughters. He was buried at St Dunstan in the West, London 5 April 1742.

Works
The History of Hertfordshire, describing the county and its ancient monuments, particularly the Roman, Richardson, London, 1728.
A New Survey of England, wherein the Defects of Camden are supplied &c, 11 parts, 1728–1729.
The Lives of the English Bishops from the Restauration to the Revolution, 1731–1733.
Antiquities of Surrey, collected from the most ancient records, London, 1736.
The History and Antiquities of Essex, 1740.

See also
Henry Chauncy
Passage 10:
Muiredach Ua hÉnlainge
Muiredach Ua hÉnlainge was a Bishop of Clonfert who died in 1117.