Passage 1:
Rumbi Katedza
Rumbi Katedza is a Zimbabwean Film Producer and Director who was born on 17 January 1974.

Early life and education
She did her Primary and Secondary Education in Harare, Zimbabwe. Katedza graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in English from McGill University, Canada in 1995. In 2008 Katedza received the Chevening Scholarship that enabled her to further her studies in film. She also holds a MA in Filmmaking from Goldsmiths College, London University.

Work and filmography
Katedza has experience in Film and TV Production, Directing, Writing as well as Producing and presenting Radio shows. From 1994 to 2000, She produced and presented radio shows on Women's issues, Arts and Culture, Hip Hop and Acid Jazz for the CKUT (Montreal) and ZBC Radio 3 (Zimbabwe). From 2004 - 2006, she served as the Festival Director of the Zimbabwe International Film Festival. Whilst there, she produced the Postcards from Zimbabwe Series. In 2008, Katedza founded Mai Jai Films and has produced numerous films and television productions under the banner namely

Tariro (2008);
Big House, Small House (2009);
The Axe and the Tree (2011);
The Team (2011)
Playing Warriors (2012)Her early works include:

Danai (2002);
Postcards from Zimbabwe (2006);
Trapped (2006 – Rumbi Katedza, Marcus Korhonen);
Asylum (2007);
Insecurity Guard (2007)Rumbi Katedza is a part-time lecturer at the University of Zimbabwe, in the department of Theatre Arts. She is a judge and monitor at the National Arts Merit Awards, responsible for monitoring new film and TV productions throughout the year on behalf of the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe. She has also lobbied Zimbabwean government to actively support the film industry.
Passage 2:
Sam the Man
Sam the Man is a 2001 American film directed by Gary Winick and starring Fisher Stevens.

Plot
A writer having difficulty completing his second novel goes on a journey of self-discovery.

Cast
External links
Sam the Man at IMDb
Sam the Man at Rotten Tomatoes
Passage 3:
The Man Is Armed
The Man Is Armed is a 1956 film noir crime film directed by Franklin Adreon starring Dane Clark, William Talman, May Wynn and Robert Horton.

Plot
Framed by another man, truck driver Johnny Morrison serves a year in prison. After his release, Johnny confronts the man, Mitch Mitchell, who plunges off a roof to his death.
Johnny then learns that his former employer, Hackett, was the one who set him up as a fall guy. Hackett claims it was a test of loyalty, and since Johnny passed, he now stands to earn $100,000 for helping Hackett pull off the robbery of an armored transport company.
Johnny's old girlfriend, Carol Wayne, still has feelings for him, even though she has been seeing Mike Benning, a young doctor. While the death of Mitchell is investigated by police Lt. Coster as a homicide, Johnny and three other thugs pull off the heist.
Unable to get the loot to Hackett due to roadblocks, Johnny hides out. Hackett, believing he has been double-crossed, shoots Johnny and buries the money on his family farm, but the police catch up to him. A wounded Johnny knocks out Mike and abducts Carol, but collapses and dies after a few steps. Mike leads Carol away as the cops arrive.

Cast
Dane Clark as Johnny Morrison
William Talman as Hackett
May Wynn as Carol Wayne
Robert Horton as Dr. Michael Benning
Barton MacLane as Det. Lt. Dan Coster
Fredd Wayne as Egan
Richard Benedict as Lew 'Mitch' Mitchell
Richard Reeves as Rutberg
Harry Lewis as Cole
Bobby Jordan as Thorne
Larry J. Blake as Ray Perkins
Darlene Fields as Terrycloth
John Mitchum as Officer

See also
List of American films of 1956
Passage 4:
Wolf Warrior
Wolf Warrior (Chinese: 战狼) is a 2015 Chinese war film written and directed by Wu Jing. It stars Wu Jing along with Scott Adkins, Yu Nan and Kevin Lee. It was released on 2 April 2015. A sequel, titled Wolf Warrior 2, was released in China in 2017 and became the all-time highest-grossing film in China.

Plot
In 2008, a combined task group of People's Liberation Army Special Operations Forces and Chinese police raid a drug smuggling operation in an abandoned chemical facility in southern China. The leader of the smuggling operation, Wu Ji, holds one of his own men hostage while taking cover behind a section of the facility's reinforced wall.
Leng Feng, a skilled PLA sniper, ignores orders to stand down and fires three shots at a weak section of the wall, penetrating through on the third shot and killing Wu Ji. Leng Feng is sent to solitary confinement as punishment, but is approached by Long Xiaoyun, the female commander of the legendary 'Wolf Warriors', an elite unit within the PLA tasked with simulating foreign tactics for the PLA to train against. Long Xiaoyun offers Leng Feng a place in the Wolf Warriors. Meanwhile, in the Philippines, crime lord Min Deng, the older brother of Wu Ji, hires ex-US Navy SEAL “Tom Cat” (Scott Adkins) and his group to assassinate Leng Feng and avenge his brother.
The Wolf Warriors participate in a training exercise in a remote and uninhabited forested region on China's southern border. During the exercise, Tom Cat and his mercenaries ambush a Wolf Warrior squad, killing one of Leng Feng's comrades. Subsequently, the PLA and the Wolf Warriors are tasked with hunting down Tom Cat‘s squad to restore their honor. The combined infantry force move into the forest but are delayed by multiple traps set by Tom Cat and pinned down by sniper fire until Leng Feng manages to kill the shooter. Afterwards, the rest of the PLA force engages Tom Cat's other mercenaries, who stage a fighting retreat but are eventually overwhelmed and killed one by one. Meanwhile, Long Xiaoyun and the other PLA commanders deduce that Ming Deng himself is also in the training area to take possession of a smuggled cache of biotechnology, which could allow the creation of a genetic weapon that could target Chinese people exclusively.
Leng Feng eventually catches Tom Cat just before China's southern border. Leng Feng is nearly defeated, but manages to kill Tom Cat with his own knife. Medical personnel from a PLA relief force arrive, but Leng Feng recognises the wrist tattoo of the medic that approaches him and realizes that they are Min Deng's men in PLA uniforms. He attacks them, eventually holding Min Deng himself at bayonet point on the very edge of the Chinese border. Min Deng's paramilitary force approaches from the other side of the border, but so do the rest of the Wolf Warriors and PLA soldiers. Min Deng's force retreats, leaving him to be arrested.

Cast
Wu Jing as Leng Feng, a marksman in the People's Liberation Army who was initially court martialled and reprimanded for failing to obey a direct order during an operation. He is later recruited into a Chinese Special Forces Unit called "War Wolf" after Long Xiaoyun takes an interest in him.
Yu Nan as Lieutenant Colonel Long Xiaoyun, Commander of the Chinese Special Forces Unit "War Wolf"
Ni Dahong as Ming Deng, a drug lord who hires a group of foreign mercenaries to avenge his brother's death at the hands of Leng Feng.
Scott Adkins as "Tom Cat," a former US Navy SEAL turned mercenary, who is hired by Meng Deng to kill Leng Feng
Kevin Lee as "Mad Cow"
Shi Zhaoqi
Zhou Xiaoou
Fang Zibin
Guo Guangping
Ru Ping
Hong Wei
Wang Sen
Zhuang Xiaolong
Chris Collins

Production
The script went through 14 drafts over seven years. In order to portray more realistic combat scenes, the movie used five missiles (each at a value of one million yuan), more than 30,000 rounds of ammunition, and a variety of Chinese active military aircraft, including the Chengdu J-10, Harbin Z-9, and CAIC Z-10. In one large battle scene, 32 active tanks appeared in the same shot, including a Type 96 tank.In order to prepare for the film, with the support of Chinese PLA Nanjing Military Region, Wu Jing trained for 18 months at a camp in Nanjing Military Region. 
On the first day of shooting, it was the hottest summer in Nanjing's history. The temperature was up to 49.8 °C, making 5 extra actors suffer from shock.
Most of the film was made on location in Jiangsu province, at sites including Nanjing and Sun Yat-sen Mausoleum.

Box office
As of 25 May 2015, it has earned US$89.11 million in China.In China, it opened on 2 April 2015, earning US$33.32 million in its 4-day opening weekend topping the Chinese box office. In its second weekend, it fell to number two, earning US$36.19 million (behind Furious 7).

Critical response
The film had an overall rating of 6.8 on the Chinese review site Douban as of August 2017. Variety magazine wrote: "To a layperson's eyes, the military exercise does look authentic, and the cross-country skirmishes are ruggedly watchable on an acrobatic level. Yet it's impossible to overlook the inanity of the plotting".

Awards
International influence
Wolf Warrior and its sequel, Wolf Warrior 2, are the namesake of China's aggressive 'wolf warrior diplomacy' under Xi Jinping's administration.
Passage 5:
Edward Yates
Edward J. Yates (September 16, 1918 – June 2, 2006) was an American television director who was the director of the ABC television program American Bandstand from 1952 until 1969.

Biography
Yates became a still photographer after graduating from high school in 1936. After serving in World War II, he became employed by Philadelphia's WFIL-TV as a boom microphone operator. He was later promoted to cameraman (important as most programming was done live and local during the early years of television) and earned a bachelor's degree in communications in 1950 from the University of Pennsylvania.
In October 1952, Yates volunteered to direct Bandstand, a new concept featuring local teens dancing to the latest hits patterned after the "950 Club" on WPEN-AM. The show debuted with Bob Horn as host and took off after Dick Clark, already a radio veteran at age 26, took over in 1956.
It was broadcast live in its early years, even after it became part of the ABC network's weekday afternoon lineup in 1957 as American Bandstand. Yates pulled records, directed the cameras, queued the commercials and communicated with Clark via a private line telephone located on his podium.
In 1964, Clark moved the show to Los Angeles, taking Yates with him.
Yates retired from American Bandstand in 1969, and moved his family to the Philadelphia suburb of West Chester.
He died in 2006 at a nursing home where he had been for the last two months of his life.

External links
Edward Yates at IMDb
Passage 6:
Arms and the Man (1932 film)
Arms and the Man is a 1932 British film based on the play Arms and the Man by George Bernard Shaw. It was written and directed by Cecil Lewis.
Passage 7:
Wu Jing (actor)
Wu Jing, also known as Jacky Wu, (Chinese: 吴京; pinyin: Wú Jīng; born 3 April 1974) is a Chinese actor, director and martial artist best known for his roles in various martial arts films such as Tai Chi Boxer, Fatal Contact, the Sha Po Lang films, and as Leng Feng in Wolf Warrior, its sequel Wolf Warrior 2, and most recently The Battle at Lake Changjin. Wu Jing is one of the most profitable actors in China and his movies are often the highest grossed films in China and around the world. Wu ranked first on the Forbes China Celebrity 100 list in 2019 and 23rd in 2020.

Career
In April 1995, Wu was spotted by martial arts choreographer Yuen Woo-ping, Wu played Hawkman / Jackie in 1996 film Tai Chi Boxer, his first Hong Kong film debut. Since then Wu has appeared in numerous mainland Chinese wuxia television series. He has also worked with choreographer and director Lau Kar-leung in 2003 film Drunken Monkey. Wu achieved success in Hong Kong action cinema for his role as a vicious assassin in 2005 film SPL: Sha Po Lang.In 2006, Wu was continuing his move into Hong Kong cinema by starring in the film Fatal Contact. Wu is the male lead in 2007 film Twins Mission, starring the Twins duo. He also worked on the police action film Invisible Target which was released in July 2007.In March 2008, Wu made his directorial debut, alongside action choreographer Nicky Li, on his film Legendary Assassin.
Wu played the Assassin in The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor his American film debut.Wu played Jing Neng in 2011 martial arts film Shaolin alongside Nicholas Tse, Andy Lau and Jackie Chan. Wu reprised a different role as Chan Chi-kit in the 2015 Hong Kong action film SPL II: A Time for Consequences.Wu directed and starred in the action war film Wolf Warrior and its 2017 sequel Wolf Warrior 2. The latter film has become a hit at the Chinese summer box office and became the highest grossing film in China.In 2019, Wu starred in hit film The Wandering Earth, based on a novella of the same name by Liu Cixin. When he discovered that the production team lacked funds to complete the film, he invested his own money to make up for the shortfall. The film ended up grossing $700 million worldwide, including $691 million in China but only 9 million for the rest of the world combined. It became China's third highest-grossing film of all time, 2019's third highest-grossing film worldwide, the second highest-grossing non-English film to date, and one of the top 20 highest-grossing science fiction films to date.

Personal life
Wu Jing and Xie Nan's relationship began in 2012 and they got married in 2014. On 25 August 2014, Wu Jing's wife gave birth to a son Wu Suowei (吴所谓) (also named as Wu You (吴滺)). On 24 September 2018, they had a second son Wu Lü (吴律).

Filmography
Film
Television series
Accolades
Passage 8:
Franklin Adreon
Franklin "Pete" Adreon (November 18, 1902 – September 10, 1979) was an American film and television director, producer, screenwriter, and actor.

Early life and career
Born in Gambrills, Maryland, Adreon was a Marine Reservist during the 30s, and served in the United States Marine Corps in World War II.  Serving initially with the 6th Marines in Iceland, Major Adreon was put in charge of the Marine Corps Photographic Unit in Quantico.Adreon, an ex-bond salesman who entered motion pictures in 1935 with no experience, landed some small paying jobs, including as a technical advisor on the serial The Fighting Marines (in which he also appeared in the role of Captain Holmes).  This led to a writing position at Mascot Pictures and its successor Republic Pictures.  Adreon stayed with the serial unit and soon, through hard work and toil, was awarded the title of associate producer. Adreon stayed with the studio for nearly all of its short life. He worked with serial director William Witney at Republic Pictures, who was also in the Marines in the war.
He then worked as a director, producer, and writer on various television series and films.
Adreon died on September 10, 1979, in Thousand Oaks, California, at the age of 76.

Selected filmography
Passage 9:
W. Augustus Barratt
W. Augustus Barratt (3 June 1873 – 12 April 1947) was a Scottish-born, later American, songwriter and musician.

Early life and songs
Walter Augustus Barratt was born 3 June 1873 in Kilmarnock, the son of composer John Barratt; the family later lived in Paisley. In 1893 he won a scholarship for composition to the Royal College of Music.
In his early twenties he contributed to The Scottish Students' Song Book, with three of his own song compositions and numerous arrangements.
By the end of 1897 he had published dozens of songs, such as Sir Patrick Spens, The Death of Cuthullin, an album of his own compositions, and arrangements of ten songs by Samuel Lover.
He then, living in London, turned his attention to staged musical comedy, co-creating, with Adrian Ross, The Tree Dumas Skiteers, a skit, based on Sydney Grundy's The Musketeers that starred Herbert Beerbohm Tree. He co-composed with Howard Talbot the successful Kitty Grey (1900).He continued to write songs and to receive recognition for them. The 1901 and 1902 BBC Promenade Concerts, "The Proms", included four of his compositions, namely Come back, sweet Love, The Mermaid, My Peggy and Private Donald.
His setting of My Ships, a poem by Ella Wheeler Wilcox, was performed by Clara Butt and republished several times. It also appeared four times, with different singers, in the 1913 and 1914 Proms.

America
In September 1904 he went to live in New York City, finding employment with shows on Broadway, including the following roles:

on-stage actor (Sir Benjamin Backbite) in Lady Teazle (1904-1905), a musical version of The School for Scandal;
musical director of The Little Michus (1907), also featuring songs by Barratt;
co-composer of Miss Pocahontas (1907), a musical comedy;
musical director of The Love Cure (1909–1910), a musical romance;
composer of The Girl and the Drummer (1910), a musical romance with book by George Broadhurst. Tried out in Chicago and elsewhere, it did not do well and never reached Broadway;
musical director of The Quaker Girl (1911–1912);
co-composer and musical director of My Best Girl (1912);
musical director of The Sunshine Girl (1913);
musical director of The Girl who Smiles (1915), a musical comedy;
musical director and contributor to music and lyrics of Her Soldier Boy (1916–1917);
composer, lyricist and musical director of Fancy Free (1918), with book by Dorothy Donnelly and Edgar Smith;
contributor of a song to The Passing Show of 1918;
composer and musical director of Little Simplicity (1918), with book and lyrics by Rida Johnson Young;
contributor of lyrics to The Melting of Molly (1918–1919), a musical comedy;
musical director of What's in a Name? (1920), a musical revue

1921 in London
Though domiciled in the US, he made several visits back to England. During an extended stay in 1921 he played a major part in the creation of two shows, both produced by Charles B. Cochran, namely

League of Notions, at the New Oxford Theatre, for which he composed the music and co-wrote, with John Murray Anderson, the lyrics;
Fun of the Fayre, at the London Pavilion, for which similarly he wrote the music and co-wrote the lyrics

Back to Broadway
Back in the US he returned to Broadway, working as
composer and lyricist of Jack and Jill (1923), a musical comedy;
musical director of The Silver Swan (1929), a musical romance

Radio plays
In later years he wrote plays and operettas mostly for radio, such as:

Snapshots: a radioperetta (1929)
Sushannah and the Brush Wielders: a play in 1 act (1929)
The Magic Voice: a radio series (1933)
Men of Action: a series of radio sketches (1933)
Say, Uncle: a radio series (1933)
Sealed Orders: a radio drama (1934)
Sergeant Gabriel (with Hugh Abercrombie) (1945)

Personal
In 1897 in London he married Lizzie May Stoner. They had one son. In 1904 he emigrated to the US and lived in New York City. His first marriage ended in divorce in 1915 and, in 1918, he married Ethel J Moore, who was American. In 1924, he became a naturalized American citizen. He died on 12 April 1947 in New York City.

Note on his first name
The book British Musical Biography by Brown & Stratton (1897) in its entry for John Barratt refers to "his son William Augustus Barratt" with details that make it clear that Walter Augustus Barratt is the same person and that a "William" Augustus Barratt is a mistake. For professional purposes up to about 1900 he appears to have written as "W. Augustus Barratt", and thereafter mostly as simply "Augustus Barratt".
Passage 10:
Hassan Zee
Hassan "Doctor" Zee is a Pakistani-American film director who was born in Chakwal, Pakistan.

Early life
Doctor Zee grew up in Chakwal, a small village in Punjab, Pakistan. as one of seven brothers and sisters  His father was in the military and this fact required the family to move often to different cities. As a child Zee was forbidden from watching cinema because his father believed movies were a bad influence on children.
At age 13, Doctor Zee got his start in the world of entertainment at Radio Pakistan where he wrote and produced radio dramas and musical programs.  It was then that he realized his passion for storytelling At the age of 26, Doctor Zee earned his medical doctorate degree and did his residency in a burn unit at the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences. He cared for women who were victims of  "Bride Burning," the archaic practice used as a form of punishment against women who fail to provide sufficient dowry to their in-laws after marriage or fail to provide offspring.  He also witnessed how his country’s transgender and intersex people, called “hijras”, were banned from having jobs and forced to beg to survive. These experiences inspired Doctor Zee to tackle the issues of women’s empowerment and gender inequality in his films.In 1999, he came to San Francisco to pursue his dream of filmmaking and made San Francisco his home

Education
He received his early education from Jinnah Public School, Chakwal. He got his medical doctor degree at Rawalpindi Medical College, Pakistan.

Film career
Doctor Zee's first film titled Night of Henna was released in 2005. The theme of the film dealt with "the conflict between Old World immigrant customs and modern Western ways..." Night of Henna focused on the problems of Pakistani expatriates who found it hard to adjust in American culture. Many often landed themselves in trouble when it came to marrying off their children.
His second film Bicycle Bride came out in 2010, which was about "the clash between the bonds of family and the weight of tradition." His third film House of Temptation that came out in 2014 was about a family which struggles against the temptations of the Devil. His fourth film “Good Morning Pakistan”, concerned a young American’s journey back to Pakistan where he confronts the contradictory nature of a beautiful and ancient culture that's marred by economic, educational and gender inequality His upcoming fifth film, "Ghost in San Francisco" is a supernatural thriller starring Felissa Rose, Dave Sheridan, and Kyle Lowder where a soldier comes home from Afghanistan to discover that his wife is having an affair with his best friend. While battling with his inner ghosts and demons, he meets a mysterious woman in San Francisco who promises him a ritual for his cure.