Passage 1:
H. H. Hunnewell
Horatio Hollis Hunnewell (July 27, 1810 – May 20, 1902) was an American railroad financier, philanthropist, amateur botanist, and one of the most prominent horticulturists in America in the nineteenth century. Hunnewell was a partner in the private banking firm of Welles & Co. Paris, France controlled by his in-laws, which specialized in trade finance between the two countries. Practicing horticulture for nearly six decades on his estate in Wellesley, Massachusetts, he was perhaps the first person to cultivate and popularize rhododendrons in the United States.

Early life
Hunnewell was born on July 27, 1810 in Watertown, Massachusetts.  He was a son of Susanna (née Cooke) Hunnewell and Dr. Walter Hunnewell, who graduated from Harvard College in 1787, in the same class with John Quincy Adams.His paternal grandparents were Revolutionary War soldier Richard Hunnewell and Eunice (née Thompson) Hunnewell, and his maternal grandparents were Phineas Cooke and Abigail (née Durant) Cooke.

Career
Hunnewell was a director of the Illinois Central Railroad from 1862 to 1871. He was a railroad entrepreneur in Kansas beginning in the 1860s, and president of the Kansas City, Fort Scott and Gulf Railroad and Kansas City, Lawrence and Southern Railroad around 1880.  At the time of his death he was a director of 12 railroads and numerous mining, real estate, and other ventures.

Philanthropy
H. H. Hunnewell made a donation in 1873 that helped Asa Gray revise and complete his Flora of North America. He also funded the conifer collection at Arnold Arboretum, Boston, Massachusetts, and donated the Arboretum's administration building (now Hunnewell Building) in 1892.
Hunnewell was a friend and neighbor of Henry Fowle Durant (1822-1881), who founded Wellesley College on Lake Waban directly across from Hunnewell's estate. Hunnewell made a donation to the College for Eliot Dormitory in 1887, and endowed the College's Chair of Botany in 1901.The town of Wellesley's greatest benefactor, Hunnewell built and donated the Wellesley Town Hall and Free Library building (completed 1885), along with 10 acres of adjoining parkland. The Wellesley Free Library has since moved to a new building. He was also a frequent donor, often anonymously, to many town causes. According to a resident at the time, "When leaving here for his winter home (in Boston), Hunnewell would go to our old Town Clerk, Solomon Flagg, and say to him, 'Be sure and not allow anyone to suffer during cold weather. Send them whatever they need and I will pay the bill.' Hunnewell and Flagg were the only ones that knew whose was the helping hand."

Personal life
In 1835, he was married to Isabella Pratt Welles (1812–1888), a daughter of Samuel Welles. She was the half sister of Samuel Welles de Lavalette
fr Together, they had nine children, including:
Hollis Hunnewell (1836–1884), who married Louisa Bronson (1843–1890), sister of Frederic Bronson.
Francis Welles Hunnewell (1838–1917), who married Gertrude Gouverneur Sturgis (1862–1890), daughter of John Hubbard Sturgis.
Susan Hunnewell (1842–1843), who died in infancy.
Walter W. Hunnewell (1844–1921), who married Jane Appleton Peele (1848–1893), daughter of Jonathan Willard Peele, in 1873.
Isabella Pratt Hunnewell (1849–1934), who married Robert Gould Shaw (1850–1931), cousin of Robert Gould Shaw.
Jane Welles Hunnewell (1851–1936), who married Francis Williams Sargent (1848–1920), grandparents of Governor Francis Sargent.He died at home in Wellesley, Massachusetts on May 20, 1902, at age 91. Hunnewell was buried in Mount Auburn Cemetery in Cambridge, Massachusetts, among his family.

Estate and arboretum
Starting in 1870, Hunnewell built country homes adjoining his own for seven of his nine children. These estates and adjacent farmland, with one exception still owned by his descendants, form the Hunnewell Estates Historic District, which was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1988.
Both the town of Wellesley (founded 1881) and Wellesley College (chartered 1870) are named for Hunnewell's estate, "Wellesley", which he named for the family of his wife. The H. H. Hunnewell estate includes a prominent 1851 house designed by Arthur Gilman with attached conservatory and gate lodges of 1865-1866 designed by Gridley J.F. Bryant, a pinetum of 325 specimen conifers, a complex of specialty greenhouses, and the first topiary garden  - the 'Italian Garden' - in America, all of which are still standing.
The estate is part of the Hunnewell Estates Historic District, which includes the estates of many of his descendants. During the first part of the 20th century there were 20 contiguous estates for him and his family in Wellesley. Among other miscellaneous activities, Hunnewell owned the home in which Horatio Alger's father lived until his death, now called the Horatio Alger House in Natick, Massachusetts. Oliver Bacon had built this house about 1824, and sold it in 1869 to Hunnewell. In 1909, Hunnewell deeded the property to the First Unitarian Church of South Natick as a parsonage.

Legacy
The railroad towns of Hunnewell, Kansas, and Hunnewell, Missouri, were named in his honor. The Wellesley College Botanic Gardens has a distinct Hunnewell Arboretum, named in his honor, across the lake. Rhododendron hunnewellianum also honors him. Along with Nathaniel Thayer, Jr, Hunnewell is credited with bringing the game of Real Tennis (a precursor to modern lawn tennis) to America. The game was thought to have first been played in 1876 when Hunnewell and Thayer, who had played the game in England, brought an English professional, Ted Hunt, home with them from Oxford. They built a court on the corner of Buckingham and Dartmouth Streets in the Back Bay section of Boston and put Hunt in charge of it. When the land the court sat on was acquired by the New York & New Haven Railroad towards the end of the century, Hunnewell reorganized the club in a new building at the corner of Hereford and Boylston streets forming the Tennis and Racquet Club of Boston
Passage 2:
Bob Flanigan (singer)
Robert Lee Flanigan (August 22, 1926 – May 15, 2011) was an American tenor vocalist and founding member of The Four Freshmen, a jazz vocal group.
The Four Freshmen originated in early 1948 when brothers Ross and Don Barbour, then at Butler University's Arthur Jordan Conservatory in Indianapolis, Indiana, formed a barbershop quartet called Hal's Harmonizers. Flanigan was a cousin of the Barbours and joined The Harmonizers beginning on September 20, 1948, becoming their lead vocalist. He also played trombone and double bass.
In 1950, The Four Freshmen got a break when band leader Stan Kenton heard the quartet in Dayton, Ohio, and arranged for an audition with his label, Capitol Records, which signed The Four later that year. In 1952, they released their first hit single "It's a Blue World". Further hits included "Mood Indigo" in 1954, "Day by Day" in 1955, and "Graduation Day" in 1956.
Throughout the 1950s and early 1960s, The Four Freshmen released a number of recordings, made film and television appearances, and performed in concert. The group eventually lost their mainstream following with the advent of the British pop bands of the 1960s. The group continued to perform under the management of Flanigan, who maintained rights to The Four Freshmen name and was responsible for the group's changing cast of performers. Flanigan retired as a performer in 1992, but continued his involvement with the group for several more years.
He died of congestive heart failure at his home in Las Vegas, on May 15, 2011, aged 84.
Passage 3:
Munnawar Masoom
Munnawar Masoom is an Indian singer of qawwali.

Early life
Munnawar Masoom was born in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, India.

Career
Munnawar Masoom is popular for his song Husne Muhabbat ka ada. He is known for his intense, powerful, energetic style and his rendering of pieces of the celebrated Sufi mystic poet Amir Khusrow. He draws the audience closer, with renditions of lyrics by Amir Khusro and Sufi Kalam, explaining the meaning of the poetry behind a devotee's yearning for god.
He performed on Idea Jalsa on Doordarshan, Times festival and Pandit Motiram Pandit Maniram Sangeet Samaroh organised by Pandit Jasraj.Also he has performed with Kailash Kher

Awards and recognition
Munnawar Masoom was given the title, Fakr-e-Madhya Pradesh by Government of Madhya Pradesh.
Passage 4:
Alexander Wesselsky
Alexander "Alexx" Wesselsky (born 18 November 1968) is a German singer. He is the lead vocalist of Neue Deutsche Härte band Eisbrecher and previously performed with Megaherz from 1993 to 2003.

Biography
In 1985, Dale Arden became Wesselsky's first band, where he performed as lead singer and bassist alongside his best friend Bill Parsons in the early 1980s at a local bar.

Megaherz: 1993–2003
Wesselsky joined Megaherz in 1993 as one of the founding members, writing lyrics and composing, as well as singing. Wesselsky has had moderate success during his time with Megaherz, his albums Himmelfahrt, released in 2000 and Herzwerk II, released in 2002, both charted in the Media Control Charts at No. 78. His most successful single during his time with Megaherz, Freiflug, was released in 1999 and hit the German alternative charts at No. 7.
Wesselsky left the band officially on 1 January 2003, and was replaced by Mathias Eisholz. In addition to Megaherz, since 1999 he has been working as a studio singer and lyricist writer for several independent projects (among others, a platinum production).

Eisbrecher: 2003–present
He joined Noel Pix in late 2002 to form Eisbrecher. Success for Wesselsky continued through Eisbrecher with the 2004 album of the same name, released in January, as it hit the alternative charts in Germany at No. 13.
Eisbrecher's 2006 album, Antikörper, was released in October and hit the Media Control Charts at No. 85. Their next single "Kann denn Liebe Sünde sein?", released in July 2008, hit the alternative charts at No. 3. The studio album Sünde was released in August 2008 and entered the Media Control Charts at a high No. 18. On 16 April 2010, Eisbrecher released their next album, Eiszeit, which hit Germany's chart at No. 5. Their following release, Die Hölle muss warten, was released on 3 February 2012 and charted No. 3 on the German main charts. Schock was released on 21 January 2015 and charted at No. 2 on the German main charts.
Both Die Hölle muss warten and Schock achieved gold status in 2016, after both sold more than 100,000 units respectively. His latest effort, Sturmfahrt, became his first album to hit No. 1 on the main German chart.
In addition to his studio musical career, Wesselsky has performed with his bands at many European music festivals, including Hurricane, Nova Rock, Wacken, M'era Luna, Wave-Gotik-Treffen, Hellfest, Graspop Metal Meeting, and Summer Breeze.

Television
Aside from his musical career, Wesselsky has also presented a television show since 2006, on the German TV channel DMAX, where he acts as a used car broker for an applicant. His screen nickname for the show is Der Checker ("The Checker"). Once he has found a suitable vehicle within the applicant's budget, the car is repaired and tuned at co-presenter's Lina van de Mars's workshop, and is then handed over to the new owner. In 2009, Wesselsky hosted a reality TV show called Schrauber-Showdown. In May 2010, he appeared as himself on the German TV talkshow Kölner Treff.

Discography
Studio albums
Singles
Megaherz

1997: "Gott sein" (To Be God)
1998: "Liebestöter" (Passion Killer)
1998: "Rock Me Amadeus"
1999: "Freiflug" (Free Flight) (#7 in German alternative charts)
2000: "Himmelfahrt" (Ascension)Eisbrecher

2003: "Mein Blut" (My Blood)
2003: "Fanatica"
2006: "Leider" (Unfortunately)
2006: "Leider/Vergissmeinnicht" (US limited double-single)
2006: "Vergissmeinnicht" (Forget Me Not)
2008: "Kann denn Liebe Sünde sein?" (Can Love be a Sin?)
2010: "Eiszeit" (Ice Age) (#84 in Germany)
2012: "Verrückt" (Insane) (#46 in Germany)
2012: "Die Hölle muss warten" (Hell Has to Wait)
2012: "Miststück 2012" (Sonofabitch)
2013: "10 Jahre Eisbrecher" (10 Years of Eisbrecher)
2014: "Zwischen uns" (Between Us)
2015: "1000 Narben" (1,000 Scars)
2015: "Rot wie die Liebe" (Red Like Love)
2017: "Was ist hier los?" (What's Going on Here?)
2018: "Das Gesetz" (The Law)

EPs
Megaherz

2007: Freiflug EP: The Early Years (1996–2000)
2008: Mann von Welt EP

Compilation albums
Megaherz

2001: Querschnitt
2009: Totgesagte leben länger (tracks 1–3, 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14)Eisbrecher

2011: Eiskalt (#69 in Germany)
2018: Ewiges Eis (#6 in Germany)
2020: Schicksalsmelodien (#4 in Germany)

Music videos
1999: "Freiflug" (Free Flight)
2004: "Schwarze Witwe" (Black Widow)
2005: "Herz steht still" (Heart Stands Still)
2006: "Willkommen im Nichts" (Welcome to Nothing)
2006: "Vergissmeinnicht" (Forget Me Not)
2010: "Eiszeit" (Ice Age)
2011: "Verrückt" (Insane)
2012: "Die Hölle muss warten" (Hell Has to Wait)
2012: "Miststück 2012" (Sonofabitch 2012)
2014: "Zwischen uns" (Between Us)
2015: "Rot wie die Liebe" (Red Like Love)
2017: "Was ist hier los?" (What's Going on Here?)
2018: "Das Gesetz" (The Law)
2020: "Stossgebet" (Quick Prayer)
2020: "Skandal im Sperrbezirk" (Scandal in Prostitution-free Area)
2020: "Out of the Dark"
2021: "FAKK"
2021: "Im Guten, im Bösen" (The Good, The Bad)

Appearances
IFF (vocals) – Königin der Nacht
2012 – Lord of the Lost (vocals) – Eure Siege
2019 – Hamatom (vocals)
Passage 5:
Ramana Vieira
Ramana Vieira is a contemporary American singer of the traditional Portuguese Fado.

Early life
Vieira was born just east of San Francisco, California in San Leandro.  Her parents had immigrated to the United States from Portugal, where her grandfather was a well-known musician and composer from Madeira. She grew up listening to American pop music and Broadway musicals, along with the traditional Portuguese music from her parents' homeland. She attended local San Leandro schools, then studied the performing arts at the American Conservatory Theater (ACT) in San Francisco. Vieira said that as a young singer she had no interest in performing fado until she visited Portugal when she was 16 years old. In Portugal, Vieira connected with her roots and found that fado ignited her passion.  She began to study intensively with local fado musicians and had the opportunity to perform.

Career
Vieira recorded her debut album, Sem Ti (Without You) in 2000. In 2004, she self-released a CD titled Despi a Alma (I Undressed My Soul). The album included the song Para Amar which was included in a video montage for the 2006 Winter Olympics. Vieira was among the performers who sang at the 2008 MusiCares Person of the Year ceremony. In 2009, she released the album Lagrimas De Rainha (Tears of a Queen), which (according to Vieira's press releases), reached number 43 on the World Music Radio charts. In 2015, Vieira released (Fado da Vida), of which several tracks have been nominated at the International Portuguese Music Awards (IPMA).  In 2015 she had two nominations: Nem As Paredes Confesso was nominated for Best Fado Performance; and Cabo Verde, which Vieira composed herself was nominated for Best World Music Performance. In 2016, the International Portuguese Music Awards nominated Ai Mouraria for Best Fado Performance.

Discography
Sem Ti (Without You), 2000, Simply Smokin' Records
Despi a Alma (I Undressed My Soul), 2004, Ramana Vieira
Lágrimas De Rainha (Tears of a Queen), 2009, Pacific Coast Records
Fado da Vida (Fado/Destiny of Life), 2015, Stillumiounous Productions
Lágrimas de Rainha, 2017, Stillumiounous Productions
Passage 6:
Mandi Perkins
Mandi Perkins is a Canadian songwriter and lead singer of the band of Verona.

Biography
Mandi Perkins was born and raised in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. She attended UC Berkeley where she graduated with a degree in English literature. Following graduation, she moved to Los Angeles to pursue a career in music while attending law school.Perkins toured the country and performed regularly on the Sunset Strip, Silverlake and in Echo Park at such venues as The Roxy, The Viper Room, The Satellite, The Echo and The Troubadour.  She completed her first independent full length album, bleeding the line ..., in 2007 with producer Warren Huart.She then began working with music producer Jeff Rosen, who introduced her to executives at Sony Music, which signed her to a record deal. Mandi immediately began work on her major label debut album, Alice in No Man's Land. All the lyrics on Alice in No Man's Land were written by Perkins and the album was produced by Warren Huart and mixed by Michael Brauer. After the collapse of the RCA Victor label and the firing of her label head, Alice in No Man's Land only saw a limited digital release.
In the first half of 2009, Perkins played the South by Southwest festival and did a club tour in the United States. Perkins asked for a release from her contract with Sony in June 2009 and started a new band named of Verona in July 2011.

Discography
Passage 7:
Teeter Sperber
Teeter Sperber is an American singer-songwriter. She was the lead singer of Ley Royal Scam, and the lead singer of the electropop group Ladybirds. She has also appeared on two Fairmont albums.

Background
In 2005, Sperber fronted the band Ley Royal Scam, a pop-act that included keyboardist Tyler Pursel. That year they played the Bamboozle festival, opening several shows for Taking Back Sunday. Ley Royal Scam self-released two demos, titled Pregnancy Scare and Sophomore Slump. The band separated later that year, leaving Pursel to pursue work touring as keyboardist with rap rock group Gym Class Heroes.After the separation of Ley Royal Scam, Sperber relocated to Oregon for "introspection and recharging", but was contacted in 2006 by former bandmate Pursel who was working on the East Coast of the United States, to appear on an upcoming project. Initially, Sperber was asked to sing for one track, but subsequent work led them to write and record together exclusively for the project, making Sperber the lead singer of Ladybirds. Pursel and Sperber met at a Creep Records basement studio in Pennsylvania to finish the recording of Regional Community Theater in January 2007. It was released by Creep Records on September 18, 2007, and was digitally reissued by Mint 400 Records on July 5, 2011. The album received mixed to positive reviews from critics.
Prior to joining Ley Royal Scam, Sperber worked at a summer snowboard camp. Transitioning into music, she did A&R and publicist work for Virgin Records, and worked for MerchDirect. In 2007, she sang on the Intramural song "Impairment Begins with the First Drink", from the album This Is a Landslide by former Desaparecidos guitarist Denver Dalley. Later that year, Sperber was also a guest vocalist on the Fairmont album Wait & Hope, and again in their 2008 release Transcendence. In 2011, Sperber and Neil Sabatino of Fairmont joined to record as Mergers & Acquisitions, releasing an electro-pop EP, Grape Soda.

Discography
Albums
Regional Community Theater (2007) as Ladybirds
Grape Soda (2011) as Mergers and Acquisitions

EPs
Pregnancy Scare (2005) as Ley Royal Scam
Sophomore Slump (2005) as Ley Royal Scam

Songs
"Impairment Begins with the First Drink" (2007) by Intramural with Denver Dalley
Passage 8:
Timir Biswas
Timir Biswas (Bengali: তিমির বিশ্বাস; born 20 November 1982) is an Indian playback singer of both Bengali and Hindi films . He also the lead singer of the band Fakira. He originates from Sreepally, Asansol, West Bengal and belongs to a Bengali family.

Early life
Timir was born on 20 November 1982 to parents Swapan Biswas and Sukla Biswas. His father Swapan Biswas is a theatre actor and a bank employee. Timir completed his education from Subhas Pally Vidya Niketan and then joined Raghunathpur College, Purulia with economics.
Timir has never taken any formal training in music. When he was four to five years old he used to sing the ad jingles shown on television. On seeing this his mother took him to her Guruji, but Timir's singing was not encouraged. It was said that he could never sing with such a voice.Then on the first day of college, he first sang publicly when he was asked to do so by some of his seniors. Everyone liked it. And then this became a daily routine. From then he started singing. He has learnt music by listening to songs. He used to go to many music persons with his compositions and lyrics but no one encouraged him. Then he got a chance to open a gig for a concert of Nachiketa Chakraborty. His performance was praised by Nachiketa. Then he formed and joined the band Muzik Street. After few small gigs, they got selected for Band-e-mataram. Chandrabindoo's Anindya and Upal were the mentor of Muzik Street in the event. Later Upal called up Timir to sing for the film 033. Since then, he took up music as a profession.

Muzik Street
Timir was one of the founding members of the Asansol-based band Muzik Street. He initially played the keyboard, and later as a vocalist. Later he left the band and shifted to Kolkata. Muzik Street brought the band revolution in Asansol. Timir, for his unique voice got noticed by several music directors. It was during this time that he did his first solo playback under the music direction of Chandrabindoo for the song "Onnyo Kothao Chol" of the movie 033. Later he got his wide fame and popularity when under the music direction of Jeet Ganguly, he along with Rana Mazumdar sang the title track of the movie "Dui Prithibi". Thereafter he got numerous offers for playback.

Fakira
After leaving Muzik Street, Timir shifted to Kolkata owing to the various offers for playback and other solo works as it was difficult for him to continue working from Asansol. There he met with one of his friend from Asansol, guitarist, composer and a member of the band Desh, Chayan Chakraborty. Their alike interest in Folk Music led them into working more with folk songs. Gradually Abhinaba, Kunaal and the famous percussionist, drummer Bunty joined them to form the band Fakira. They are currently working with Bengali folks and has plans to work on root music round the globe.
The current line up is :

Timir Biswas: Vocals and Keyboard
Chayan Chakraborty: Guitar and Backing Vocals
Apurba Das: Guitar
Kunaal Biswas: Bass and Backing Vocals
Avirup Das (Bunty): Drums and PercussionAfter visiting various ashrams and akhras they have started their research in folk songs and have blended them with elements of rock. Some of their folk arrangements has already gained immense popularity online. Some of them are Chander Gaye Chand, Nizamuddin Auliya, Tyangra, Golemale Pirit, Somoy Gele Shadhon, and Bhromor Koyo Giya. They have toured Bangladesh to feature in an Eid Special 4-hour-long episode of Air Wick Phono Live Studio Concert in ETV. Other than this they have performed at various college fests and other notable social events. Timir, Chayan and Abhinaba have also worked for music of the 4th Bell Theaters production 15 Minutes To Fame & Nobel Chor. In 2013 October, Fakira went international and performed at Hartford, Columbus, Tampa and Chicago.In July 2015, Fakira featured in Caller Gaan in Desh TV, a popular TV channel of Bangladesh.

Itorpona
Fakira released their debut album Itorpona on 6 September 2014 at Story, Elgin Road, Kolkata marked by the gracious presence of Sayani Datta, Sujoyprasad Chattopadhyay, Satrajit Sen, Aakash Fakir and Armaan Fakir. The album released under the banner of Inreco and Major 7th consists of 8 tracks written by Lalon Fakir, Radharomon, Hasan and others. The song titled Somoy Gele Shadhon is a tribute to Pink Floyd and is a bridge between Lalon and Pink Floyd. Itorpona has won the Special Jury Award in Mirchi Music Awards Bangla, 2015. The album contains the following tracks:

Bhromor Koyo Giya
Paal Tule De
Itorpona
Somoy Gele Shadhon
Chander Gaye Chand Legeche
Nizammuddin Auliya
Opaar
Sob Loke Koy Lalon

Hare Krishno
The band has recently announced on social media that they have started working on their second album which is to be titled Hare Krishno. Recordings have reportedly begun for the album at Yash Raj Film Studios Mumbai.
Also, the band is coming up with two singles - Krishno Premer Pora Deho and Ami Shudhu Roinu baki which will be releasing soon. As per the band, the recordings have been done. As of now, the post production works are being carried out.

Playback & Television
Timir because of his unique quality of voice, got noted by music directors quite early. Jeet Ganguly in an interview said that Timir is the Bryan Adams of Bengal. After "onnyo kothao chol" from 033, music by Chandrabindoo and "Dui Prithibi" from Dui Prithibi, Music by Jeet Ganguly, Timir has also sung for music directors like Indradeep Dasgupta, Joy Sarkar. He has recently made his Bollywood debut in the film 'Khajoor Pe Atke' directed by Harsh ChhayaTimir Biswas has also been featured in Zee Bangla Cinema Song connection and has been accredited for the maximum number of songs in the show.

Timir Biswas Live (TBL)
On 17 June 2015 Timir for the first time went solo on stage. On the eve of the anniversary celebration of 4th Bell Theaters, the theatre group organized the show Timir Biswas Live (TBL) at Gyan Manch. It was the first time where Timir performed his playback numbers live in a concert. The show witnessed many popular faces of the Bengali film and music industry viz. Chaitali Dasgupta, Ujjaini, Satadal and Gabu. Praises showered in for Timir post the show. 
Henceforth TBL has been immensely popular and has performed in numerous concerts in college fests etc.
Timir Biswas Live features:

Timir Biswas - Vocals & Guitar
Chayan Chakraborty - Lead Guitar
Sagar Chatterjee - Lead Guitar
Mohul Chakraborty (Dodo) - Bass Guitar
Rahul - Keyboard
Appu - Drums

Ondho Premik
Timir, after posting a series of 17 social media posts containing couplets of lyrics, announced that Ondho Premik his first Solo album would be coming soon to the audience. On 3 August, Timir revealed the details about the album on social media. Ondho Premik as  cited by Timir is supposed to contain 6 love stories in form of 6 songs. The lyrics are penned by Rajib Chakraborty. Ashu-Abhishek composed the music for the album.
Ashu-Abhishek (a well known music director duo) and Timir have known each other for four years and have worked on various projects including Zee Bangla Song Connection, but almost all of them were client based. However, all of them had an urge to work on an album independently, with their own understanding and expression of music. However, things kept on getting pushed and nothing was actually taking shape. They had initially arranged many sittings to discuss the same, but little did anything fruitful turn out.
The entire team of Ondho Premik first got together for a show called Poetry on Celluloid hosted by a popular RJ of Kolkata, Raja Das. They created a song titled Bhalobashar Jawr (penned by Rajib Chakraborty) for that show. With this song, they realized that Bhalobashar Jawr was the kind of songs that they actually wanted to work on. With this, the decision to work on an album together, was taken unanimously. They decided to meet at Rajib's place.
As usual, like the earlier meetings, Ashu and Timir were not aware of what was going to take shape from this meeting. Abhishek was out of town when this meeting took place. However, at the meeting they find out that Rajib has already written 8 songs for the album and all of them were production ready content. At this point of time, other members of the team became serious and work on the album began.
Yet Ondho Premik was not progressing ahead as Ashu-Abhishek were stuck in their other projects. Finally one fine night, accompanied by heavy downpour, the duo created the first track of the album Bandhobi Mon. Henceforth, after various sittings, planning etc. the team finally hit the studios on 25 August 2016 and finished recording on 6 September 2016. The Drums have been played by a friend of Ashu, Vinayak Mahadevan and was recorded by Jonathan at The Sound House Studio in California. The album was recorded at Sonic Solutions (vocals) and Post Production (music), Kolkata. The album was mixed by a close friend of Timir, Shubhodeep, in Mumbai.
The album released (first time for a Bengali album to pre-release on digital media) on digital platforms on 15 October 2016 through a Facebook live session. The album (released by Inreco) release will be held at Princeton Club on 27 October accompanied by a special performance by Fakira. The album consists of the following six tracks:
Chole Bole Koushole
Ondho Premik
Bandhobimon
Niruddesh
Bhalobashar Jwor
Ekshow AathOn 19 November 2016 the Music video for Ondho Premik was released on YouTube by Indian Records Video Channel. The video, produced in association with the 4th Bell Theaters, has already garnered more than 50,000 views. The video directed by Aniruddha Dasgupta and edited and colored by Alok Chowdhury, features Timir, Ashu, Abhishek, Rajib, Chayan, Sagar, Prarthita, Mahua, Aritra, Ritwick, Satyaki, Asim, Shreya, Dipanwita and Kallol. The post production activities were carried out by Kolkata Videos.

YouTube Covers
Timir featured in a number of covers which released on YouTube under the banners of Kolkata Videos HD, 12 Keys Studio etc. His first cover of the song Pyar Deewana Hota Hai from film Kati Patang was released in 2014 by Kolkata Videos HD. The video was eventually re-released by Saregama India Ltd. Hindi music channel "Saregama GenY". Other covers include Iktara (12 Keys Studio), O meri Jaan (12 Keys Studio), Ei meghla dine ekla (Kolkata Videos HD), etc.

Director and Story Teller
The knack of story telling lingered within Timir since his childhood days. According to Timir, his inspiration for storytelling is his father. Timir ventured into Direction and Story Telling with the musical short film Kichudin - a  song penned by Soumik Das (who also happens to be the DOP for the film) and sung by Timir. Kichudin talks about love and life in old age homes. Timir's father Swapan Biswas plays a pivotal role in the film.Following the success of Kichudin, Timir directed another music video/ musical short film for a cover version of the Rabinra Sangeet Tumi Robe Nirobe sung by Timir himself with Rahul Sarkar on the Keys. The entire footage for the film was shot on Timir's iPhone while the band was in Jalpaiguri.Timir's third venture is the Musical Short Film for the song Ami Jani Tumi Thik by the band Bad Trip. Timir has written the story and directed film. The film talks about getting over our mistakes and starting out afresh. Timir's father Swapan Biswas has played the role of the protagonists father in the film.

Theater
Timir's father Swapan Biswas has been associated with theater for more than 35 years. He has performed in numerous shows in Asansol and various parts of West Bengal, Delhi etc. Timir, watching his father perform was intrigued by this form of art and had developed a liking for the art as early as his toddler age. Timir too has been associated with theater and stage plays since his childhood. Timir is associated with one of the most famous theater groups of Kolkata, called 4th Bell Theaters for more than 4 years. For numerous plays viz. Noble Chor, 15 Minutes to Fame, Fan staged by the group, Timir has been an active member in producing the music. Timir has also performed on stage for many of the plays.

Discography
DirectorMuzik Street

Fakira (Live)

PlaybackFilms

Television and others

Awards
Special Award for Nabagato Kantho, 91.9 Friends FM Sangeet Samman 2013Special Jury Award for Itorpona, Mirchi Music Awards Bangla, 2015
Passage 9:
Chris Shinn
Chris Shinn (born August 1, 1974) is an American singer, songwriter and musician. From March 2012 to December 2016, he was the lead singer of the band Live. He was previously the lead singer of the band Unified Theory. He is the son of former Charlotte Hornets owner, George Shinn.

Unified Theory
Beginnings
Unified Theory began to form in early 1998. After the initial idea to continue Blind Melon with a new lead vocalist did not work out, Smith and Thorn decided to start a new band. Thorn discovered Shinn on a scouting mission in Los Angeles.

"Chris has an exceptional voice. I was blown away," says Thorn, "You have to like people you're working with. We wanted someone with personality and a voice. He's a fun guy and I was completely floored by his songs."
Unified Theory was originally called Luma, they issued a four-track CD through their website in 1999. After they were signed to Universal Records later that year, they changed their name to Unified Theory after the theory Albert Einstein was working on when he died.

Debut and demise
In August 2000 the band issued their self-titled debut album. While working on tracks for a second album, delays set the band back, and Krusen grew somewhat frustrated and left to join Nickelback's first major North American tour as a touring musician, leading to Unified Theory's eventual breakup.

Brief Reformation & Reunion Show
The band have since announced plans to release a new album consisting of the recorded material for the second album (some of which has never been heard) as well as songs from the Luma period. No timetable has been set for this release. Unified Theory has recently filmed a music video for the song "15 Hits", a song set to be released on their upcoming album. The group played a reunion show on August 4, 2010 at the King King in Hollywood.

Live
On March 12, 2012, it was revealed that Chris would be the new lead singer of the rock band Live. He played the band's dress rehearsal show to a hometown crowd at the Strand-Capitol Theater in York, PA, on March 12, 2012. He toured with the band and performed on the band's 2014 album The Turn.
On December 12, 2016, Live announced that original lead singer Ed Kowalczyk had returned to the band, though no reference was made to Shinn in the announcement. All references to his tenure in the band have been removed from the band's website and The Turn is absent from the discography.

Discography
Singles
Passage 10:
Martin Rolinski
Martin Andrzej Rolinski (born June 23, 1982) is a Swedish singer of Polish origin and was the lead singer of the Swedish synthpop band Bodies Without Organs (now known as BWO).

Popstars
Rolinski started his music career in 2002 when he made a bet with his friends to go on an audition for Popstars, a TV reality show searching for new artists. He made it to the final group, but was eliminated in the middle of the season.

Career
However, after Popstars in 2002, Martin worked with Anders Hansson, who was in contact with Alexander Bard. Through Hansson, Rolinski got in touch with Bard, and Roliński subsequently became the lead singer of Bard's new band Bodies Without Organs together with Marina Schiptjenko and Bard himself.

Melodifestivalen 2013
Martin took part in Melodifestivalen 2013 in a bid to represent Sweden in the Eurovision Song Contest. He sang "In and Out of Love" in the third Semi-final held 16 February 2013. Finishing 3rd/4th, he qualified to the "Second Chance" round on 2 March 2013. He lost his duel against Robin Stjernberg and his song "You", and was eliminated from the contest. Despite this, his song charted the following week in Sverigetopplistan, the official Swedish Singles Chart at number 37.

Personal life
He was raised in Gothenburg, Sweden, with both parents originating from Poland. He is their only child and speaks fluent Polish. Martin studied automation and mechatronics at Chalmers University of Technology in Gothenburg. He married his fiancée, Katarina Jansson, on September 20, 2008. Together they have two daughters, Isabella (born 2009) and Maya (born 2012).

Discography
Singles