Passage 1:
Sam Newfield
Sam Newfield, born Samuel Neufeld (December 6, 1899 – November 10, 1964), also known as Sherman Scott or Peter Stewart, was an American B-movie director, one of the most prolific in American film history—he is credited with directing over 250 feature films in a career which began during the silent era and ended in 1958. In addition to his staggering feature output, he also directed one -and two-reel comedy shorts, training films, industrial films, TV episodes and pretty much anything anyone would pay him for. Because of this massive output—he would sometimes direct more than 20 films in a single year—he has been called the most prolific director of the sound era.Many of Newfield's films were made for PRC Pictures. This was a film production company headed by his brother Sigmund Neufeld. The films PRC produced were low-budget productions, the majority being westerns, with an occasional horror film or crime drama.

Family and education
Newfield completed one year of high school, according to the 1940 US census. Brother Morris Neufeld was a stage actor, according to the 1930 US census.

Pseudonyms
Sam Newfield was credited as Sherman Scott and Peter Stewart on a number of films he made for PRC. He used these names in order to hide the fact that one person was responsible for so many of PRC's films.

Partial filmography
Partial filmography is listed below for the different names he used.

Film statistics
Between 1923 and 1930 Newfield directed over 50 comedies. Feature films statistics per year, starting with 1933, are summarised in the following table.

See also
Fred Olen Ray, another B movie director who has used many of these pseudonyms
Passage 2:
Durango Valley Raiders
Durango Valley Raiders is a 1938 American Western film directed by Sam Newfield and written by George H. Plympton. The film stars Bob Steele, Louise Stanley, Karl Hackett, Ted Adams, Forrest Taylor and Steve Clark. The film was released on August 22, 1938, by Republic Pictures.

Plot
Durango Valley is controlled by Shadow and his gang. The Sheriff while investigating a killing, arrests ranch worker Keene Cordner, with some help Keene gets out of jail and hides out, but will now become an actual bandit, in the hopes of catching Shadow.

Cast
Bob Steele as Keene Cordner
Louise Stanley as Betty McKay
Karl Hackett as John McKay
Ted Adams as Lobo
Forrest Taylor as Sheriff Devlin
Steve Clark as Boone Cordner
Horace Murphy as Matt Tanner
Jack Ingram as Deputy Slade
Passage 3:
W. Augustus Barratt
W. Augustus Barratt (3 June 1873 – 12 April 1947) was a Scottish-born, later American, songwriter and musician.

Early life and songs
Walter Augustus Barratt was born 3 June 1873 in Kilmarnock, the son of composer John Barratt; the family later lived in Paisley. In 1893 he won a scholarship for composition to the Royal College of Music.
In his early twenties he contributed to The Scottish Students' Song Book, with three of his own song compositions and numerous arrangements.
By the end of 1897 he had published dozens of songs, such as Sir Patrick Spens, The Death of Cuthullin, an album of his own compositions, and arrangements of ten songs by Samuel Lover.
He then, living in London, turned his attention to staged musical comedy, co-creating, with Adrian Ross, The Tree Dumas Skiteers, a skit, based on Sydney Grundy's The Musketeers that starred Herbert Beerbohm Tree. He co-composed with Howard Talbot the successful Kitty Grey (1900).He continued to write songs and to receive recognition for them. The 1901 and 1902 BBC Promenade Concerts, "The Proms", included four of his compositions, namely Come back, sweet Love, The Mermaid, My Peggy and Private Donald.
His setting of My Ships, a poem by Ella Wheeler Wilcox, was performed by Clara Butt and republished several times. It also appeared four times, with different singers, in the 1913 and 1914 Proms.

America
In September 1904 he went to live in New York City, finding employment with shows on Broadway, including the following roles:

on-stage actor (Sir Benjamin Backbite) in Lady Teazle (1904-1905), a musical version of The School for Scandal;
musical director of The Little Michus (1907), also featuring songs by Barratt;
co-composer of Miss Pocahontas (1907), a musical comedy;
musical director of The Love Cure (1909–1910), a musical romance;
composer of The Girl and the Drummer (1910), a musical romance with book by George Broadhurst. Tried out in Chicago and elsewhere, it did not do well and never reached Broadway;
musical director of The Quaker Girl (1911–1912);
co-composer and musical director of My Best Girl (1912);
musical director of The Sunshine Girl (1913);
musical director of The Girl who Smiles (1915), a musical comedy;
musical director and contributor to music and lyrics of Her Soldier Boy (1916–1917);
composer, lyricist and musical director of Fancy Free (1918), with book by Dorothy Donnelly and Edgar Smith;
contributor of a song to The Passing Show of 1918;
composer and musical director of Little Simplicity (1918), with book and lyrics by Rida Johnson Young;
contributor of lyrics to The Melting of Molly (1918–1919), a musical comedy;
musical director of What's in a Name? (1920), a musical revue

1921 in London
Though domiciled in the US, he made several visits back to England. During an extended stay in 1921 he played a major part in the creation of two shows, both produced by Charles B. Cochran, namely

League of Notions, at the New Oxford Theatre, for which he composed the music and co-wrote, with John Murray Anderson, the lyrics;
Fun of the Fayre, at the London Pavilion, for which similarly he wrote the music and co-wrote the lyrics

Back to Broadway
Back in the US he returned to Broadway, working as
composer and lyricist of Jack and Jill (1923), a musical comedy;
musical director of The Silver Swan (1929), a musical romance

Radio plays
In later years he wrote plays and operettas mostly for radio, such as:

Snapshots: a radioperetta (1929)
Sushannah and the Brush Wielders: a play in 1 act (1929)
The Magic Voice: a radio series (1933)
Men of Action: a series of radio sketches (1933)
Say, Uncle: a radio series (1933)
Sealed Orders: a radio drama (1934)
Sergeant Gabriel (with Hugh Abercrombie) (1945)

Personal
In 1897 in London he married Lizzie May Stoner. They had one son. In 1904 he emigrated to the US and lived in New York City. His first marriage ended in divorce in 1915 and, in 1918, he married Ethel J Moore, who was American. In 1924, he became a naturalized American citizen. He died on 12 April 1947 in New York City.

Note on his first name
The book British Musical Biography by Brown & Stratton (1897) in its entry for John Barratt refers to "his son William Augustus Barratt" with details that make it clear that Walter Augustus Barratt is the same person and that a "William" Augustus Barratt is a mistake. For professional purposes up to about 1900 he appears to have written as "W. Augustus Barratt", and thereafter mostly as simply "Augustus Barratt".
Passage 4:
Claude Weisz
Claude Weisz is a French film director born in Paris.

Filmography
Feature films
Une saison dans la vie d'Emmanuel (1972) with Germaine Montéro, Lucien Raimbourg, Florence Giorgetti, Jean-François Delacour, Hélène Darche, Manuel Pinto, etc.Festival de Cannes 1973 - Quinzaine des réalisateurs
Jury Prize: Festival Jeune Cinéma 1973

La Chanson du mal aimé (1981) with Rufus, Daniel Mesguich, Christine Boisson, Věra Galatíková, Mark Burns, Philippe Clévenot, Dominique Pinon, Madelon Violla, Paloma Matta, Béatrice Bruno, Catherine Belkhodja, Véronique Leblanc, Philippe Avron, Albert Delpy, etc.Festival de Cannes 1982 - Perspectives du cinéma français
Competition selections: Valencia, Valladolid, Istanbul, Montréal

On l'appelait... le Roi Laid (1987) with Yilmaz Güney (mockumentary)Valencia Festival 1988 - Grand Prix for documentaries "Laurel Wreath"
Competition selections: Rotterdam, Valladolid, Strasbourg, Nyon, Cannes, Lyon, Cairo

Paula et Paulette, ma mère (2005) Documentary - Straight to DVD

Short and mid-length
La Grande Grève (1963 - Co-directed CAS collective, IDHEC)
L'Inconnue (1966 - with Paloma Matta and Gérard Blain - Prix CNC Hyères, Sidney)
Un village au Québec
Montréal
Deux aspects du Canada (1969)
La Hongrie, vers quel socialisme ? (1975 - Nominated for best documentary - Césars 1976)
Tibor Déry, portrait d'un écrivain hongrois (1977)
L'huître boudeuse
Ancienne maison Godin ou le familistère de Guise (1977)
Passementiers et Rubaniers
Le quinzième mois
C'était la dernière année de ma vie (1984 - FIPRESCI Prize- Festival Oberhausen 1985 - Nomination - Césars 1986)
Nous aimons tant le cinéma (Film of the European year of cinema - Delphes 1988)
Participation jusqu'en 1978 à la réalisation de films "militants"

Television
Series of seven dramas in German
Numerous documentary and docu-soap type films (TVS CNDP)
Initiation à la vie économique (TV series - RTS promotion)
Contemplatives... et femmes (TF1 - 1976)
Suzel Sabatier (FR3)
Un autre Or Noir (FR3)
Vivre en Géorgie
Portrait d'une génération pour l'an 2000 (France 5 - 2000)
Femmes de peine, femmes de coeur (FR3 - 2003)

Television documentaries
La porte de Sarp est ouverte (1998)
Une histoire balbynienne (2002)
Tamara, une vie de Moscou à Port-au-Prince (unfinished)
Hana et Khaman (unfinished)
En compagnie d'Albert Memmi (unfinished)
Le Lucernaire, une passion de théâtre
Les quatre saisons de la Taillade ou une ferme l'autre
Histoire du peuple kurde (in development)
Les kurdes de Bourg-Lastic (2008)
Réalisation de films institutionnels et industriels
Passage 5:
Eugenio Alabiso
Eugenio Alabiso (born 30 July 1937) is an Italian film editor.
He edited The Good, the Bad and the Ugly (1966)He edited The Case of the Scorpion's Tail (1971), Silent Action (1975), and The Scorpion with Two Tails (1982), directed by Sergio Martino, and Face to Face (1967), directed by Sergio Sollima. He worked in crime films like Long Lasting Days (1973), Almost Human (1974), Manhunt in the City (1975), and From Corleone to Brooklyn (1979), directed by Umberto Lenzi.

Filmography
Films
Television series
Passage 6:
Jacques Décombe
Jacques Décombe is a French author, actor and director born in 1953.

Biography
After he studied at the Conservatoire national d'art dramatique, he was the director of the shows of Les Inconnus at the request of Didier Bourdon and won the Molière Award for best comedy show. (See fr:Molière du meilleur spectacle comique) in 1991. He also directed shows by Charlotte de Turckheim, Chevallier et Laspalès, Patrick Timsit, Les Chevaliers du fiel...
Passage 7:
Sepideh Farsi
Sepideh Farsi (Persian: سپیده فارسی; born 1965) is an Iranian director.

Early years
Farsi left Iran in 1984 and went to Paris to study mathematics.  However, eventually she was drawn to the visual arts and initially experimented in photography before making her first short films. A main theme of her works is identity. She still visits Tehran each year.

Awards/Recognition
Farsi was a Member of the Jury of the Locarno International Film Festival in Best First Feature in 2009. She won the FIPRESCI Prize (2002), Cinéma du Réel and Traces de Vie prize (2001) for "Homi D. Sethna, filmmaker" and Best documentary prize in Festival dei Popoli (2007) for "HARAT".

Recent News
One of her latest films is called Tehran Bedoune Mojavez (Tehran Without Permission).  The 83-minute documentary shows life in Iran's crowded capital city of Tehran, facing international sanctions over its nuclear ambitions and experiencing civil unrest.  It was shot entirely with a Nokia camera phone because of the government restrictions over shooting a film.  The film shows various aspects of city life including following women at the hairdressers talking of the latest fads, young men speaking of drugs, prostitution and other societal problems, and the Iranian rapper “Hichkas”.  The  dialogue is in Persian with English and Arabic subtitles. In December 2009, Tehran Without Permission was shown at the Dubai International Film Festival.

Filmography
Red Rose (2014)
Cloudy Greece (2013)
Zire Âb / The house under the water (2010)
Tehran bedoune mojavez / Tehran without permission (2009)
If it were Icarus (2008)
Harat (2007)
Negah / The Gaze (2006)
Khab-e khak / Dreams of Dust (2003)
Safar-e Maryam / The journey of Maryam (2002)
Mardan-e Atash / Men of Fire (2001)
Homi D. Sethna, filmmaker (2000)
Donya khaneye man ast / The world is my home (1999)
Khabe Âb / Water dreams (1997)
Bâd-e shomal / Northwind (1993)
Passage 8:
Fred Roy Krug
Fred R. Krug is an American film and television producer-director born in Bern, Switzerland.
Passage 9:
Umberto Lenzi
Umberto Lenzi (6 August 1931 – 19 October 2017) was an Italian film director, screenwriter, and novelist.
A fan of film since young age, Lenzi studied at the Centro Sperimentale di Cinematografia and made his first film in 1958 which went unreleased, while his official debut happened in 1961 with Queen of the Seas. Lenzi's films of the 1960s followed popular trends of the era, which led to him directing several spy and erotic thriller films. He followed in suit in the 1970s making giallo films, crime films and making the first Italian cannibal film with Man from the Deep River. He continued making films up until the 1990s and later worked as a novelist writing a series of murder mysteries.

Biography
Early life
Umberto Lenzi was born on 6 August 1931 in the Massa Marittima province of Italy. Lenzi was a film enthusiast as early as grade school. While studying law, Lenzi also created film fan clubs. Lenzi eventually put off studying law and began pursuing the technical arts of filmmaking.He graduated from Rome's Centro Sperimentale di Cinematografia in 1956 and made I ragazzi di Trastevere as his final exam, a short film influenced by the writings of Pier Paolo Pasolini. Lenzi also worked as a journalist for various newspapers and magazines, including Bianco e Nero and, between 1957 and 1960, penned a number of detective novels and adventure stories using a pseudonym.

1960s
Prior to his officially first credited film as a director, Queen of the Seas, Lenzi directed a film in Greece in 1958 titled Mia Italida stin Ellada, or Vacanze ad Atene, which was never released.Lenzi's films of the 1960s revolved around popular genres of their respective time periods. In the early 1960s, Lenzi directed many adventure films including two features about Robin Hood (The Triumph of Robin Hood and The Invincible Masked Rider) and two films about Sandokan (Sandokan the Great (1963) and Pirates of Malaysia (1964)).By 1965, Lenzi began directing European spy films, such as 008: Operation Exterminate, followed by Super Seven Calling Cairo and The Spy Who Loved Flowers, and even adapted the fumetti neri comic character Kriminal to the screen. Lenzi then turned to making war films such as Desert Commandos and Legion of the Damned and westerns such as Pistol for a Hundred Coffins and All Out (1968).Lenzi had box office success in Italy with his erotic thrillers starring Carroll Baker such as Orgasmo, So Sweet... So Perverse and A Quiet Place to Kill which were influenced by French "film noir" movies drawing from the works of Jacques Deray and René Clément.

1970s
After the commercial success of giallo films by Dario Argento, Lenzi followed the new trend with Seven Bloodstained Orchids, which referenced both Cornell Woolrich and Edgar Wallace novels, while another giallo Knife of Ice was a variation of Robert Siodmak's The Spiral Staircase. Other gialli created by Lenzi in the early 1970s included Spasmo and Eyeball.During the early 1970s, Lenzi also directed the first of the Italian cannibal films, with Man from the Deep River, a genre that he would explore again in the 1980s with Eaten Alive! and Cannibal Ferox. During the late 1970s, Lenzi devoted himself almost exclusively to crime dramas, with the exception of two war films: The Greatest Battle and From Hell to Victory (1979).

1980s
The 1980s marked the release of films that Roberto Curti described as some of Lenzi's "most notorious". These included Nightmare City and the previously mentioned Cannibal Ferox.Lenzi also worked on horror films towards the late 1980s, such as Ghosthouse (1988) under the name Humphrey Humbert and the slasher film Nightmare Beach which was credited to Harry Kirkpatrick as Lenzi refused to sign his name to the film. Other later 1980s work included horror films made for television, such as The House of Witchraft and The House of Lost Souls. Both films were part of a series titled Le case maldette (transl. Houses of Doom) which were set up by Luciano Martino and were related by the theme of haunted houses. The films were shot but the series was not broadcast immediately. Lenzi reflected on these films saying he made them as if they were designed for theatrical release and that  the producers, his colleagues and himself did not consider that television sponsors would not accept horror films. The two television series were eventually released on VHS in 2000 in Italy and later broadcast on Italian satellite TV in 2006. In 1989, Lenzi directed the police action film Cop Target in Miami and Santo Domingo, starring Robert Ginty and Charles Napier.

Post-1980s
In 1990, using his own company and a low amount of funds, Lenzi also shot two films in Brazil in a period of three months: the horror film Black Demons, which in 1996 he considered to be his masterpiece, and the adventure film Hunt for the Golden Scorpion.In 1992, he shot the adventure film Mean Tricks (also known as Hornsby and Rodriguez) starring Charles Napier, David Warbeck and David Brandon. Variety reported in 2006 that Lenzi was shooting a slasher film in Italy titled Horror Baby. The film's story was about a 15-year-old paraplegic girl who becomes a serial killer after viewing a neighbor having sex from her window.Lenzi later embarked on a career as a novelist, writing a series of murder mysteries set in the 1930s and '40s Cinecittà, involving real-life characters of the Italian film industry.

Death
Lenzi died on 19 October 2017. The director was hospitalized in the Ostia district of Rome. The cause of death is unknown.

Personal life
Umberto Lenzi was married to Olga Pehar, who co-wrote some of his films.Lenzi was an anarchist.

Legacy
Roberto Curti referred to Lenzi as "one of the undisputed leading figures in Italian genre cinema" and that he was "a sort of institution in Italian genre cinema." Louis Paul suggested that Lenzi released some "quite enjoyable action films in the 1960s and some good thrillers in the '70s, he never consistently excelled at any one genre" and that Lenzi would "probably be remembered most for his cannibal-themed horror films." Kim Newman discussed Lenzi in 2021, stating that the director "has been rated towards the bottom of the ranks of Italian genre craftsmen by many - me included - because of the greater availability of his pulpier, more gruesome 1980s work" noting Cannibal Ferox and Nightmare City and stated that "though a trailblazer for the little-loved jungle cannibal cycle, contributing its earliest and most gruesome entries, in general Lenzi seemed one of the coat-tail riders, turning to whatever subgenre of exploitation was selling that year...and even in that class, he's less consistently interesting and exciting than Sergio Martino." Newman did note the film Lenzi made with Carroll Baker in the late 1960s, which Newman stated "force a reassessment" on Lenzi's work.

Select filmography
See also
Cannibal boom
Centro Sperimentale di Cinematografia
Poliziotteschi
Spaghetti Nightmares
Passage 10:
From Corleone to Brooklyn
From Corleone to Brooklyn (original title: Da Corleone a Brooklyn) is an Italian poliziotteschi film directed by Umberto Lenzi. The film was released in Italy on 13 April 1979 and stars Maurizio Merli, Mario Merola and Van Johnson.

Plot
Italian police officer Giorgio Berni (Maurizio Merli) is seeking to arrest Michele Barresi (Mario Merola), who is hiding in New York under the name Vito Ferrando, for his role in the murder of Salvetore Santoro. He plans to accomplish this by having a witness to the murder, Salvetore Scalia, testify against Barresi in court as evidence that Barresi was involved in the crime. On their way from Italy to New York Berni and Scalia experience several lethal encounters with Barresi's men trying to prevent them from getting to Barresi.
Assuming that Salvetore Scalia is dead, as a result of a newspaper report put out by the police, Barresi has his sister Liana murdered so as to eliminate all witnesses to the murder of Santoro. While searching Liana's apartment, police find a plane ticket for New York. While leaving Liana's apartment a shootout breaks out between Barresi's men and Berni, resulting in the death of Giuseppe Caruso, and revealing that Salvetore Scalia is alive. In order to secure a safe hiding spot for Scalia, Berni takes him to the house of his ex-wife, Paola. After leaving Paola's house another firefight ensues with Barresi's men. Poala, Berni, and Scalia then stay in a hotel for the night. As they head to the airport the following day, the road is blocked by Barresi's men, where Berni commands Paola to speed through their barrier. From here, Berni and Scalia take a plane to New York.
According to plan Scalia and Berni take refuge in a hotel the evening before they plan to testify against Barresi. After realizing that the man guarding the door is missing, Berni must take Scalia somewhere else to hide. He takes him to Joe's Restaurant and Pizzeria, where the head of the restaurant, Luigi, allows them to hide in his apartment upstairs. Meanwhile, two of Barresi's men enter the restaurant aiming to murder Berni and Scalia. However, a group of robbers enter immediately after, prompting Barresi's men to engage in shootout with the robbers, then flee the scene. Berni and Scalia exit Joe's Restaurant to track down the two men who left the restaurant, but are instead ambushed by a street gang. Police arrive to the scene of the ambush, where they arrest Berni and Scalia after receiving a report of two dangerous men, one armed, in the area. They do not initially believe that Berni is an Italian police officer. After Berni convinces them to take him to Lieutenant Sturges, who is sitting on the court case of Barresi, Berni and Scalia are free to begin their testimony against Barresi. When Scalia takes the stand to testify against Barresi, however, he claims that he does not know the man and has never seen him in his life, causing the judge to order Barresi to be set free.
Outside the court house, Scalia is shot dead by a gunman on the roof, revealed to be a clerk working at the hotel in which Berni and Scalia stayed when they first arrived in New York. The film ends with Berni searching Scalia's jacket pockets and finding a note stating that, if he were to die, let it be known that the man who goes by Vito Ferrando is actually Michele Barresi, providing Berni with the evidence he needs to bring Barresi down.

Cast
Maurizio Merli as Commissioner Giorgio Berni
Mario Merola as Michele Barresi
Biagio Pelligra as  Salvatore Scalia
Laura Belli as Paola
Van Johnson as Lt. Sturges
Venantino Venantini as Commissioner Danova
Sonia Viviani as Liana Scalia
Salvatore Billa as Giuseppe Caruso
Luca Barbareschi as Policeman

Release
From Corleone to Brooklyn was released theatrically in Italy on 13 April 1979, distributed by Variety Film. The film grossed 398.6 million Italian lira.

See also
List of Italian films of 1979