Passage 1:
The Fabulous Senorita
The Fabulous Senorita is a 1952 American musical comedy film directed by R. G. Springsteen and starring Estelita Rodriguez, Robert Clarke and Nestor Paiva. The film came at the tail-end of a cycle of Latin American-themed films, though it did introduce a new star, Rita Moreno.

Plot
Cast
Estelita Rodriguez as Estelita Rodriguez
Robert Clarke as Jerry Taylor
Nestor Paiva as José Rodriguez
Marvin Kaplan as Clifford Van Kunkle
Rita Moreno as Manuela Rodríguez
Leon Belasco as Señor Gonzales
Tito Renaldo as Pedro Sanchez
Tom Powers as Delaney
Emory Parnell as Dean Bradshaw
Olin Howland as Justice of the Peace
Vito Scotti as Esteban Gonzales
Martin Garralaga as Police Captain Garcia
Nita Del Rey as Felice
Joan Blake as Betty
Frances Dominguez as Amelia
Betty Farrington as Janitress
Norman Field as Dr. Campbell
Clark Howat as Davis
Frank Kreig as Cab Driver
Dorothy Neumann as Mrs. Black
Elizabeth Slifer as Wife of Justice of the Peace
Charles Sullivan as Cab Driver
Arthur Walsh as Pete
Passage 2:
Kabani Nadi Chuvannappol
Kabani Nadi Chuvannappol (When the River Kabani Turned Red) is a 1975 Malayalam feature film directed by P. A. Backer, produced by Pavithran, and starring T. V. Chandran, Shalini, Raveendran and J. Siddiqui. This leftist political drama film came out during the Emergency period. It was the directorial debut of P. A. Backer, who won that year's awards for Best Director and Second Best Film at the Kerala State Film Awards. Pavithran, who later directed many critically acclaimed Malayalam films produced the film. T. V. Chandran, who also later went on to direct a bevy of award-winning films in Malayalam and Tamil, played the lead role. After certain post-production controversies, the film debuted in theatres on 16 July 1976.

Cast
Production and release
The principal production started in June 1975. The day when shoot of the film commenced in Bangalore, Emergency was declared in India.The film was screened at several film festivals in 1975. It was not given the censor certificate for the theme it dealt with for more than a year. It released in theatres during the Emergency period itself, on 16 July 1976.The English title of the film is When the River Kabani Turned Red.

Awards
Kerala State Film AwardsSecond Best Film - P. A. Backer (director), Pavithran (producer)
Best Director - P. A. Backer
Passage 3:
The Drover's Wife
The Drover's Wife is a 1945 painting by Australian artist Russell Drysdale. The painting depicts a flat, barren landscape with a woman in a plain dress in the foreground. The drover with his horses and wagon are in the background. The painting has been described as "an allegory of the white Australian people's relationship with this ancient land." Henry Lawson's 1892 short story "The Drover's Wife" is widely seen as an inspiration for the painting, although Drysdale denies that.The painting is now part of the collection of the National Gallery of Australia in Canberra.
Passage 4:
The Drover's Sweetheart
The Drover's Sweetheart is a 1911 film from the team of Agnes and John Gavin.It was the first film they made for their own production company after leaving Stanley Crick and Herbert Finlay on 19 July 1911 and seems to have been made at Gavin's new studios at Waverly.Very little is known about the movie, which is considered a lost film. It is not certain if it was ever even released commercially.The film was supposed to be followed by another from Gavin called The Lubra's Revenge but is unclear if this was made.
Passage 5:
Operation Leopard
La légion saute sur Kolwezi, also known as Operation Leopard, is a French war film directed by Raoul Coutard and filmed in French Guiana. The script is based on the true story of the Battle of Kolwezi that happened in 1978. It was diligently described in a book of the same name by former 1st Foreign Parachute Regiment Captain Pierre Sergent. He published his book in 1979, and the film came out in 1980. Coutard shot the film in a documentary style.

Plot
The film is based on true events. In 1978, approximately 3,000 heavily armed fighters from Katanga crossed the border to the Zaire and marched into Kolwezi, a mining centre for copper and cobalt. They took 3,000 civilians as hostages. Within a few days, between 90 and 280 hostages were killed. The rebels appeared to be unpredictable and are reported to have threatened to annihilate all civilians.
Mobutu Sese Seko, Zaire's head of state, urged Belgium, France and the United States to help. France sent the Foreign Legion's 2nd Foreign Parachute Regiment, which were flown from Corsica to Kolwezi. Following their arrival, they secured the perimeter, in co-operation with Belgian soldiers from Zaire, and then started to evacuate the civilians. Within two days more than 2,000 Europeans and about 3,000 African citizens were saved. The film strives to depict the events in a dramatised form, concentrating on the Europeans' plight.

Production
The late Jean Seberg had filmed scenes on location for the film, but her death caused her to be replaced by another French American actress, Mimsy Farmer, who reshot Seberg's scenes.

Cast
Bruno Cremer: Pierre Delbart
Jacques Perrin:Ambassador Berthier
Laurent Malet: Phillipe Denrémont
Pierre Vaneck: Colonel Grasser
Mimsy Farmer: Annie Devrindt
Giuliano Gemma: Adjudant Fédérico
Robert Etcheverry : Colonel Dubourg
Jean-Claude Bouillon : Maurois
Passage 6:
My Little Eye
My Little Eye is a 2002 British horror film directed by Marc Evans about five adults who agree to spend six months together in an isolated mansion while being filmed at all times. The idea for the film came from reality television shows such as Big Brother. The title refers to the guessing game I spy.

Plot
Five contestants, Matt (Sean Cw Johnson), Emma (Laura Regan), Charlie (Jennifer Sky), Danny (Stephen O'Reilly) and Rex (Kris Lemche), agree to take part in a reality webcast, where they must spend six months in a house to win $1 million. If anyone leaves, then no one wins the money. Nearing the end of the six months, tension between the contestants rises after Emma finds strange messages she believes are from a man from her past and the food packages arrive containing a letter that claims Danny's grandfather has died, and a gun with five bullets.
One night, a man named Travis Patterson (Bradley Cooper) arrives, claiming he is lost in the woods and that his GPS has died. Despite claiming to be an internet programmer, he claims to not recognize any of the contestants or ever having heard of the show. Later that night, Travis has sex with Charlie, and then secretly talks directly into a camera, to communicate with whoever is watching them. The next morning, Travis leaves and Danny discovers his backpack outside covered in blood and shredded to pieces. The contestants assume he was attacked by an animal but Rex believes Travis works for the people running their show and that it is all a trick to make them leave the house and forfeit the prize money.
Emma discovers her underwear among Danny’s belongings and confronts him, unaware that Travis planted them there the previous night. Danny denies it and attempts to make peace by giving her a crudely carved wooden cat, which Emma and Charlie ridicule, while Danny overhears.
The next morning, the group finds Danny has committed suicide by hanging himself from the staircase balcony with a rope. The guests finally decide to leave, but after being unable to contact anyone via radio, decide to wait until the next morning. Rex uses the GPS unit from Travis' bag and his laptop to gain access to the internet to find out more about the show but is unable to find any evidence of their show online.
Rex is only able to find a heavily encrypted beta site, that requires a $50,000 fee to access, and displays a web page with their pictures and betting odds. The group decides they will leave the next morning, though Rex and Emma go up to the roof to set off a flare. While Charlie and Matt remain in the house, Matt asks a camera if he should kill her, before suffocating her with a plastic bag.
Later, while Emma is sleeping, Rex comes downstairs and is decapitated with an axe by Matt. Matt awakens Emma and brings her up to the attic, telling her he is being chased and the others are dead. He then makes advances on Emma, who refuses, and attempts to rape her, before she stabs him in the back and runs off.
Emma runs outside and finds a police officer, who handcuffs her inside the car and enters the house. An injured Matt then crawls out, begging the cop to let him kill Emma, since he spent six months in the house with her. Realizing they are working together, Emma escapes the car and tries to run but is shot in the back with a rifle by the cop.
Matt and the cop sit in the kitchen discussing the setup they created with Travis for their high paying clients who want to witness the murders. When the cop says there are always "five suckers" to play the game with, Matt corrects him to four, and is then shot in the head. The cop then leaves, talking to Travis over the radio, while Emma is seen locked in a small room, unable to escape. As she collapses screaming, the cameras filming all shut off, one by one.

Cast
Sean Cw Johnson as Matt
Kris Lemche as Rex
Stephen O'Reilly as Danny
Laura Regan as Emma
Jennifer Sky as Charlie
Nick Mennell as The Cop
Bradley Cooper as Travis Patterson

Home media
My Little Eye is available on DVD from MCA/Universal Home Video with most of the special features available on the Region 2 Special Edition including a filmmakers' commentary and deleted scenes. There is an audio mode "Conversations of the Company (Eavesdropping Audio Track)" which allows the viewer to listen to the radio conversations between the members of the company: Travis and "the cop". However, during this mode, the viewer cannot hear all of the dialogue of the cast in the scene. A UK release contains a 'Special Mode' where viewers see the film from the perspective of an internet subscriber, and more extra features become unlocked as the film goes on. You can watch other things going on in 'the house' in real time to what's happening in the film.

Reception
The film received polarized but positive reviews and holds 67% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 21 reviews, with an average score of 5.2/10.

See also
List of films featuring surveillance
Passage 7:
Life Is What You Make It (film)
Life Is What You Make It is a 2017 documentary film which explores the life of award-winning Filipino theatre producer Jhett Tolentino from his migration into the United States and his entry into theatre production in New York. The film came with a soundtrack album entitled Life Is What You Make It: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack.

Soundtrack
The song "Life Is What You Make It" served as the documentary's main theme. The song won the Silver Medal at the Global Music Awards in San Diego and was nominated Song of the Year at the Josie Awards in Nashville, Tennessee in 2017.

Accolades
See also
Broadway theatre
Here Lies Love (musical)
National Artist of the Philippines
Musical theatre
Passage 8:
Pigsty (film)
Pigsty (Italian: Porcile) is a 1969 Italian film, written and directed by Pier Paolo Pasolini and starring Jean-Pierre Léaud, Marco Ferreri, Ugo Tognazzi, Pierre Clémenti, Alberto Lionello, Franco Citti and Anne Wiazemsky.

Plot
The film features two parallel stories. The first one is set in an unknown past time and is about a young man (Clémenti) who wanders in a volcanic landscape (shot around Etna) and turns into a cannibal. The man joins forces with a thug (Citti) and ravages the countryside. At the end, he and his gang get arrested and at his execution, he recites the famous tagline of the film: "I killed my father, I ate human flesh and I quiver with joy." The story is about the human capacity of destruction and a rebellion against the social prerequisites implied against it.
The second story is about Herr Klotz (Lionello), a German industrialist and his young son Julian (Léaud) who live in 1960s Germany. Julian, instead of passing time with his radically politicised fiancée Ida (Wiazemsky), prefers to build relationships with pigs. Herr Klotz, on the other hand, with his loyal aide Hans Guenther (Ferreri), tries to solve his rivalry with fellow industrialist Herdhitze (Tognazzi). The two industrialists join forces while Julian gets eaten by pigs in the sty. Herdhitze intends to conceal the event. The story attempts to provide a link between the Third Reich and Wirtschaftswunder Germany.

Reception
On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a rating of 56% based on 9 critics, with an average rating of 5.7/10.
Passage 9:
The Night of Nights
The Night of Nights is a 1939 black-and-white drama film written by Donald Ogden Stewart and directed by Lewis Milestone for Paramount Pictures that starred Pat O'Brien, Olympe Bradna, and Roland Young.The film received positive contemporary reviews from publications such as The New York Times. Director Milestone went on to other successful productions after the film came out, including Ocean's 11 and Pork Chop Hill.

Background
Milestone directed The Night of Nights nine years after winning the 1930 Academy Award for Best Director for All Quiet on the Western Front.

Plot
Dan O'Farrell (Pat O'Brien) is a brilliant Broadway theater playwright, actor, and producer who has left the business.  When he was younger, he and his partner Barry Keith-Trimble (Roland Young) were preparing for the opening night of O'Farell's play Laughter by getting drunk.  When it was time to perform, they were so intoxicated they ended up brawling on stage and fell into the orchestra pit.  The two left the theater and continued drinking, until they learn that they have been suspended. At the same time, O'Farrell learns that his wife, actress Alyce Martelle, is pregnant and has left him for ruining her performance in Laughter as Toni.  Despondent, he in left the business and went into seclusion.
Years later, his daughter Marie (Olympe Bradna) locates him and inspires him to return to Broadway.  He decides to restage Laughter with its original cast, but with Marie substituting for Alyce in the part of Toni.  Hoping to make a glorious return with a show that would be a hit with critics and the public alike, O'Farrell enlists the aid of friends to embark on a full-fledged comeback.

Cast
Reception
Frank S. Nugent wrote for The New York Times that the work of actors Pat O'Brien and Roland Young, had "been a labor of love and the film has profited accordingly." In noting that the plot centered on "the theatre and some of the curious folk who inhabit it", the newspaper's review stated that the film had an acceptable sentimentality and shared that the story was "an uncommonly interesting study of a man's mind, subtly written and directed, presented with honesty and commendable sincerity by Mr. O'Brien, Mr. Young and Olympe Bradna, and well worth any one's attention." The only objection in the review was that the stage play Laughter, the piece being produced within the film by O'Brien's character of Dan O'Farrell, "seemed to be the most awful tripe."
Passage 10:
Jaan-E-Mann
Jaan-E-Mann (transl. Beloved) is a 2006 Indian Hindi-language musical romance film directed by Shirish Kunder and was produced by Sajid Nadiawala. The film stars Salman Khan, Akshay Kumar and Preity Zinta. This was Kunder's debut film as a director. He also edited and wrote the screenplay and dialogues.Jaan-E-Mann released on 20 October 2006 on the festive weekend of Diwali/Eid, clashing with Don – The Chase Begins Again starring Shah Rukh Khan and Priyanka Chopra. The film proved to be a commercial failure at the box office. It received mixed reviews from critics upon release, with praise for its innovative filming techniques, visuals, production design, soundtrack and special effects; however its story, screenplay and dialogues received sharp criticism.
At the 52nd Filmfare Awards, Jaan-E-Mann received 2 nominations – Best Choreography (Farah Khan for "Humko Maloom Hai") and Best Special Effects.
The DVD for the film was released on 15 December 2006.

Plot
The film begins when Suhaan Kapoor (Salman Khan) receives a notice saying his ex-wife Piya Goyal (Preity Zinta), who has settled in New York, wants a divorce settlement of ₹5 million, because he failed to make his alimony payments due to his poor financial condition. Suhaan appeals to his uncle Bonney Kapoor (Anupam Kher), a midget lawyer, for help. While they are trying to figure out a solution, Agastya Rao (Akshay Kumar) lands at their doorstep searching for Piya. He reveals to them that he fell in love with Piya during his college days but could not express his love to her because she was in love with someone else, unaware that the person he lost her to was Suhaan. Piya had ignored Agastya then, a nerd, a nobody, and even broke his heart by blowing him off to be with Suhaan at a concert that Agastya had taken her to. A heartbroken Agastya left the college as a result and eventually wound up in Houston working for NASA.
Suhaan and Piya fall in love in college and elope. However, he kept his marriage a secret to further his career as a movie star and when his career hits a low, he returns home to find out that she has left him. She does not answer his calls or emails, and he soon receives a divorce notice in the mail.
Suhaan and Bonney hatch a plan to get Agastya and Piya together so that Suhaan does not need to pay alimony to Piya and Agastya can get the girl of his dreams. Suhaan accompanies Agastya to New York to help Agastya win Piya over. They rent an apartment opposite Piya's and watch her every move using telescopes, binoculars, and surveillance techniques. Using a headset, Suhaan feeds Agastya lines to woo Piya with and eventually succeeds in getting Piya and Agastya together.
One night, Suhaan finds out Piya has a baby girl, Suhaan's daughter. He realizes that she left him since she did not want her and the baby to ruin Suhaan's film career. Suhaan realizes his mistake and tries to make amends and start a new life with Piya and his daughter, Suhaani. Unfortunately, before he can act, Piya gets engaged to Agastya.
It later emerges that Piya's brother, Vishal (Nawwab Shah), had been hiding letters that Suhaan wrote to her and was responsible for initiating the divorce process. Agastya realizes that Piya is still in love with Suhaan and not him; so, he reveals the truth and tells her to be with Suhaan. Piya flies back to India where Suhaan is trying to find work as a small-time actor. They express their mutual love, reuniting their broken family.
A few years later, Agastya is on a NASA Space Shuttle and initiates a video conference with Suhaan and Piya (on Suhaan's birthday). He introduces them to his new girlfriend who looks strikingly like Piya.

Cast
Salman Khan as Suhaan Kapoor, a former superstar who is married to his college girlfriend Piya. After being fired from his career, he gets a divorce notice from Piya and has to pay for the alimony.
Akshay Kumar as Agastya Rao / Champu, a NASA specialist who used to have a crush on Piya during his years in college but was rejected by her back then. He becomes friends with Suhan and with his help, he tries to get him and Piya together.
Preity Zinta as Piya Goyal Kapoor and Preity Zintacova (dual role)
Aman Verma as Zubin Hornibhoy, Piya's friend
Anupam Kher as Bonney Kapoor / New York Cafe Owner (Dual Role)
Nawwab Shah as Vishal Goyal (Piya's brother)
Soni Razdan as Mrs. Sushma Goyal
Jawed Sheikh as Samrat Goyal
Rajesh Balwani as Daboo Goyal, Piya's cousin brother

Production
Filming started in New York City on 1 September 2005 and then moved to Mumbai.

Soundtrack
The music for the film was released on 6 September 2006. The music is composed by Anu Malik and includes a few playback singers forming the former contestants of Indian Idol. Lyrics are penned by Gulzar. According to the Indian trade website Box Office India, with around 1,250,000 units sold, this film's soundtrack album was the year's eighth highest-selling.

Track listing
Reception
Box office
Jaan-E-Mann opened in nearly 1,200 screens worldwide. The film faced stiff competition from Don – The Chase Begins Again which also released on the same day. The film opened to a 40% response. The second day saw a huge drop in the collections, due to the Diwali celebrations. According to boxofficeindia.com, the collections jumped to 70%, but fell again to 50%. The film has done very well in the smaller centres in India.Pranab Kapadia, the UK distributor of Jaan-E-Mann said "Jaan-E-Mann's figures have picked up dramatically in Britain. Although the film grossed a mere £18,000 on its opening day, the film has experienced a remarkable upswing, grossing £40,000 on Monday and £60,000 on Tuesday. The audience and critics reception has been overwhelming."

Critical reception
On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 44% of 9 critics' reviews are positive.Taran Adarsh of Bollywood Hungama gave the film 3.5 out of 5, saying "On the whole, JAAN-E-MANN balances humor and emotions beautifully. In fact, it's a BIG film in all respects -- right from its cast to the extravagant sets to the lavish making, besides, of course, unadulterated entertainment it has to offer. At the box-office, the Diwali and Idd holidays will prove bountiful for the film and add to the big returns. Business-wise, JAAN-E-MANN should fare best at multiplexes and also at major centres, besides Overseas. But its business at comparatively smaller centres, where masala films dominate, is bound to be affected by DON's presence. However, if the strong word of mouth catches on, the business at smaller centres will add to its booty." Poonam Joshi of BBC.com gave the film 4 out of 5 stars, writing "Jaan-E-mann simultaneously parodies the worst elements of Hindi cinema, while exulting in the best that Bollywood has to offer, making for an unexpectedly original and entertaining film." Raja Sen of Rediff.com gave the film 3 out of 5 stars stating "In the end, what echoes in your ears as you leave is Akki's thick, goofy he-he-he laugh. It's the best thing in the film."Conversely, Namrata Joshi of Outlook India called the film "A mish-mash—a twisted love triangle but even the inventive narrative doesn't take it very far." Vincent Musetto of New York Post gave the film  1 out of 5 stars, writing "We keep waiting for one of those outlandish musical treats to bring some life to the clichd script. Kunder throws in a few breaks, but they're tepid and brief."

Nominations
See also
List of movies set in New York City

Notes