Passage 1:
The Police Serve the Citizens?
La polizia è al servizio del cittadino? (internationally released as The Police Serve the Citizens?) is a 1973 Italian giallo-poliziottesco film directed by Romolo Guerrieri. The film is set in Genova.

Cast
Enrico Maria Salerno: Commissioner Nicola Sironi
Giuseppe Pambieri: Commissioner Marino
John Steiner: Lambro
Venantino Venantini: Mancinelli
Alessandro Momo: Michele Sironi
Memmo Carotenuto: Baron
Marie Sophie Persson: Cristina
Daniel Gélin: Ing. Pier Paolo Brera
Gabriella Giorgelli: Eros, Prostitute
Enzo Liberti: Greengrocer

Release
The film was released on August 25, 1973. It was distributed by P.I.C. in Italy. The film grossed a total of ₤1.033 billion in Italy.
Passage 2:
Bag-in-box
A bag-in-box or BiB is a container for the storage and transportation of liquids.  It consists of a strong bladder (or plastic bag), usually made of several layers of metallised film or other plastics, seated inside a corrugated fiberboard box.

Features
The bag is supplied to the company which will fill it as an empty pre-made bag. The company filling the bag with its product generally removes the tap, fills the bag (with wine, juice or other liquid) and replaces the tap and then the bag is placed in the box. 
The bags are available as singles for semi-automatic machines or as web bags, where the bags have perforations between each one. These are used on automated filling systems where the bag is separated on line either before the bag is automatically filled or after. Depending on the end use, there are a number of options that can be used on the bag instead of the tap. The bags can be filled from chilled product temperatures up to 85 °C (185 °F).
BiB packaging can be made using form seal fill (FSF) technology, where the bags are manufactured on-line from reels of film, then the FlexTap is inserted then filled on an integral rotary head filler. The BiB is currently used to package wine, soda fountain syrup products, milk, liquid chemicals, and water.

History
The first commercial BiB system was invented by American chemist William R. Scholle in 1955 for the safe transportation and dispensing of battery acid. Scholle's invention inspired a "packaging revolution." In 1991, Scholle was inducted into the packaging hall of fame for his invention.

Uses
BiB has many common commercial applications. Among the most common ones are to supply syrup to soft drink fountains and to dispense bulk supplied condiments such as ketchup or mustard in the foodservice industry (especially in fast food outlets). BiB technology is still used for its original application of dispensing sulfuric acid for filling lead-acid batteries in garages and dealerships. As explained further below, BiBs have also been implemented for consumer applications like boxed wine.For commercial syrup applications, the customer opens one end of the box (sometimes via a pre-scored opening) and connects a compatible connector to a built-in port on the bag to pump out its contents. The port itself contains a one-way valve which opens only under pressure from the attached connector and which prevents contamination of the syrup in the bag. For consumer applications like boxed wine, there is a tap already present on the bag which protrudes through a pre-cut hole on the box, so all the consumer has to do is locate the tap on the outside of the box.
Producers like BiB packaging because it is inexpensive. BiB also offers environmental benefits by allowing contents of 1.5–1000 liters, so that less packaging or labeling is required. The material it is made from is lighter than the other plastic alternatives, providing it with a better carbon footprint.

Wine cask
The 'wine cask' was invented by Thomas Angove (1918–2010) of Angove's, a winemaker from Renmark, South Australia, and patented by the company on April 20, 1965. Polyethylene bladders of 1 gallon (4.5 litres) were put into corrugated boxes for sale to consumers. An original design required that the consumer cut the corner off the bladder inside the box, pour out the desired quantity of wine and then reseal it with a special peg.In 1967, Charles Malpas and Penfolds Wines patented a plastic, air-tight tap welded into an aluminised film bladder, making storage much more convenient for consumers. All modern wine casks now utilise some sort of plastic tap, which is exposed by tearing away a perforated panel on the box.
The main advantage of BiB packaging is that it prevents oxidation of the wine during dispensing. Rather than working as a conventional tap, the bladder uses gravity pressure to squeeze the liquid out of the bladder, whereas a conventional barrel tap works by allowing incoming air to displace the contents. After opening wine in a bottle, it is oxidized by air in the bottle which has displaced the wine poured; wine in a bag is not touched by air and thus not subject to oxidation until it is dispensed. Cask wine is not subject to cork taint or spoilage due to slow consumption after opening.Although a promising technology, there have been production and design problems. The impermeable bladders tend to delaminate around the tap and where the two halves are joined. If tap components are deposited in the bladder during assembly, all the bladders must be destroyed to find the components as the bladders are opaque. It has also been difficult to manufacture taps that do not leak air into the bladder since tap parts usually do not join neatly, although there have been significant improvements. Most red wines require breathing before consumption which is not possible with casks, so the wine has air circulated through it before bottling (usually by running through a centrifuge), which reduces shelf life considerably. Most casks will have a best-before date stamped. As a result, it is not intended for cellaring and should be consumed within the prescribed period.

Aseptic packaging
BiB is also used extensively in the packaging of processed fruit and dairy products in aseptic processes. Using aseptic packaging equipment, products can be packed in aseptic packaging. Pasteurized or UHT treated products packed into this format can be "shelf-stable", requiring no refrigeration. Some products can have a shelf life of up to 2 years, depending on the type of bag that is used.
The key to this unique system is that the product being filled is not exposed to the external environment at any stage during the process and as such, there is no possibility of a bacterial load being added to the product during the filling process. To ensure there is no contamination from the packaging, the bag is irradiated after the bag manufacturing process.
These packs are typically from 10 to 1200 liters and offer the advantage of cheap, disposable and transport efficient packaging.

See also
Corrugated box design
Tetra Brik

Notes
Passage 3:
Bagman (disambiguation)
A bagman or bag man is a collector of dirty money for organized crime.
Bagman may also refer to:

Bagman (video game), a 1982 French platform arcade game
Bagman, a biochip containing the personality of a fallen comrade in the 2000AD comic Rogue Trooper
Bagman (film), a 2010 film about Jack Abramoff
Sack Man or Bag Man, a bogeyman-figure
Ludo Bagman, a character in J. K. Rowling's Harry Potter series
The Bag Man, a 2014 film
Bag Man (podcast), a 2018 podcast about Spiro Agnew's 1973 bribery and corruption scandal
"Bagman" (Better Call Saul), an episode of the television series Better Call Saul

See also
Bağban (disambiguation)
Bag boy (disambiguation)
Bag lady (disambiguation)
Passage 4:
Donne con le gonne
Women in Skirts (Italian: Donne con le gonne) is a 1991 Italian romantic comedy film directed by Francesco Nuti. It was the highest-grossing Italian film in Italy in 1992. The film was nominated for two awards, Best Supporting Actress and Best Costume Design.

Cast
Francesco Nuti as Renzo Calabrese
Carole Bouquet as Margherita
Barbara Enrichi as Renzo's mother
Cinzia Leone as Cinzia
Gastone Moschin as lawyer Carabba
Didi Perego as Pubblico Ministero
Daniele Dublino as count Ugolino
Passage 5:
Io piaccio
Io piaccio (also known as La via del successo... con le donne) is a 1955 Italian comedy film directed by Giorgio Bianchi.

Plot
Professor Maldi, a researcher on the company held by Commendatore Tassinetti (Aldo Fabrizi), experiments on various animals, and especially on the capon Gildo, its preparation which should give courage to the men. Pressed by Tassinetti Maldi decides to experiment on himself the latest version of its compound, without waiting to know the reaction of the capon.
Soon, the shy Maldi finds himself desired by every woman he meets: rather than courage, his discovery provides an irresistible fascination for twenty-four hours.

Cast
Walter Chiari: Prof. Roberto Maldi
Aldo Fabrizi: Commendatore Tassinetti
Peppino De Filippo: Nicolino Donati
Dorian Gray: Doriana Paris
Bianca Maria Fusari: Sandra, Maldi's assistant
Tina Pica: Sibilla
Mario Carotenuto: Marassino
Sandra Mondaini:Giovanna
Lina Volonghi: Lucia, Tassinetti's wife
Valeria Fabrizi: Wardrobe supervisor
Enrico Glori: Butler at Caprice nightclub
Riccardo Billi: Husband
Erminio Spalla: Doriana's confidence man
Bruno Corelli: Director
Dina Perbellini: Marassino's wife
Passage 6:
It's in the Bag
It's in the Bag can refer to:

It's in the Bag, a pricing game on The Price Is Right
It's in the Bag (game show), a long-running New Zealand game show
L'affaire est dans le sac (English: It's in the Bag), a 1932 French film
It's in the Bag (1936 film), a British film
It's in the Bag (1944 film), a British film
It's in the Bag! (1945 film), a 1945 American film starring Fred Allen
Passage 7:
The Bag Man
The Bag Man (also known as Motel or The Carrier) is a 2014 neo-noir crime thriller film directed by David Grovic. It is based on an original screenplay by James Russo and a rewrite by David Grovic and Paul Conway and an inspiration of The Cat: A Tale of Feminine Redemption by Marie-Louise von Franz. The film stars John Cusack, Rebecca Da Costa, Crispin Glover, Dominic Purcell, Robert De Niro, and Sticky Fingaz. The film premiered on February 28, 2014, in New York and Los Angeles.

Plot
Brutal gangster Dragna recruits professional killer Jack to pick up a bag and wait for his arrival at a motel.  Dragna stresses that Jack is not to open the bag or allow anyone to view its contents under any circumstances.  Confused as to why Dragna wants him to do such an apparently easy job, Jack presses for more details, but Dragna only reiterates the rules.  When Jack acquires the bag and a henchman of Dragna's shoots him in the hand, Jack kills him and stuffs the body in his car's trunk.  Dragna is unsympathetic when Jack calls him and instructs Jack to stick to the plan.
At the motel, Jack meets several people: Ned, the desk clerk who uses a wheelchair; Rivka, a tall hooker; and Lizard and Guano, a pair of pimps. Jack requests room number thirteen, and Ned cautions him that it is a deathtrap, as it is unconnected.  When two suited men become curious about Jack, he abruptly breaks into their room and kills both. A subsequent search reveals FBI badges and a briefcase. Jack sets the briefcase aside and leaves to dump the corpse stored in his car, but promptly returns upon being spotted, only to discover that Rivka has broken into his room. Fearful that Lizard will kill her, she requests that he allow her to stay.
Jack initially demands that she leave, then detains her when he cannot be sure whether she opened the bag. Rivka points out that the briefcase contains a photo of the bag, and Jack becomes worried that others may attempt to acquire it. When Jack attempts to drive Rivka to a bus station, she spots the corpse in the back of his car. Lizard and Guano first question Jack about Rivka and later, on the road, attack him. On their corpses he finds another photo of the bag. Unsure what to do with Rivka, or of her involvement, he returns to the hotel with her to await Dragna's arrival.
Ned becomes suspicious that Jack has a guest in his room and calls the sheriff when Jack refuses to pay the double occupancy fee. Sheriff Larson briefly questions Jack, and, after Larson leaves, Jack threatens Ned. Increasingly worried about the safety of the bag, Jack buries it near the motel, only to be caught by Ned, who is now out of his wheelchair. Jack kills Ned and returns to the motel, where Larson arrests him under suspicion of Ned's disappearance.
As Larson prepares to torture Jack for information, Rivka shows up. Larson threatens to rape her, but she overpowers a deputy and frees Jack, who then kills Larson. When Rivka demonstrates detailed knowledge of the bag, Jack becomes suspicious of her again, but she points out that she has saved his life.  Somewhat mollified, he retrieves the bag and waits in room fourteen. Dragna finally appears, disappointed in Jack's apparent lack of trust. Nonetheless satisfied that Jack has not looked in the bag, Dragna explains that the whole situation was a test of Jack's skills and character, as he doubted Jack's resolve in the wake of Jack's fiancee's unsolved murder some months earlier. The motel and the local cops are all on Dragna's payroll, and were all (unwittingly) part of the test.
As Dragna prepares to leave, Rivka spontaneously tells Jack that she looked in the bag. Frustrated, Jack points out that Dragna will now kill them both. Jack dutifully reports Rivka's action to Dragna, who orders her killed. Jack instead kills Dragna's bodyguard, who wounds Rivka. Jack hunts down Dragna, and both are wounded. Jack looks in the bag and discovers the head of his fiancee, whom Dragna had killed in order to prevent Jack from quitting the murder-for-hire business. Trying to persuade Jack to surrender, Dragna destroys the hotel (where Rivka supposedly is) with remote-detonated explosives. Moments later, Rivka appears and saves Jack by killing Dragna, but she is shot again. Later, in Dragna's lawyer's office, Rivka reveals herself as Dragna's mistress and personal assassin who was sent to the motel to ensure things went Dragna's way. She collects a five million dollar reward for Jack's assassination, and she and Jack drive off together.

Cast
John Cusack as Jack
Rebecca Da Costa as Rivka
Robert De Niro as Dragna
Crispin Glover as Ned Stensen
Dominic Purcell as Sheriff Larson
Sticky Fingaz as Lizard
Martin Klebba as Guano
Theodus Crane as Goose
David Shumbris as Pike
Mike Mayhall as Deputy Jones
Danny Cosmo as Bishop
David Grovic as Dragna's lawyer

Reception
Rotten Tomatoes, a review aggregator, reports that 10% of 42 surveyed critics gave the film a positive review; the average rating was 3.4/10.  Metacritic rated it 28/100 based on 18 reviews.  Scott Foundas of Variety called it "a tedious, self-consciously quirky postmodern noir".  Stephen Farber of The Hollywood Reporter wrote, "If it weren't for the touches of cruelty, this might have been a passable B-movie, but Bag Man ends up wasting the A-list talent caught up in the lurid exercise."  Stephen Holden of The New York Times described the plot as "a protracted and increasingly tedious cat-and-mouse game" that "pathetically tries to build up expectations about what might be in the bag".  Mike D'Angelo of The A.V. Club called it a Quentin Tarantino knock-off made two decades too late.
Passage 8:
Una prostituta al servizio del pubblico e in regola con le leggi dello stato
Una prostituta al servizio del pubblico e in regola con le leggi dello stato (literally "A prostitute serving the public and complying with the laws of the state", also known as Prostitution Italian Style) is a 1970  Italian comedy-drama film written and directed by Italo Zingarelli.For her performance Giovanna Ralli won the Grolla d'oro for best actress.

Cast
Giovanna Ralli: Oslavia
Giancarlo Giannini: Walter
Jean-Marc Bory: François Coly
Denise Bataille
Paolo Bonacelli
Roberto Chevalier
Passage 9:
The Man with the Bag
"The Man with the Bag" may refer to:

The Sack Man, a mythical figure
"(Everybody's Waitin' for) The Man with the Bag", a Christmas song
"The Man with the Bag", an episode of Ally McBeal
Passage 10:
The Police Serve the Citizens?
La polizia è al servizio del cittadino? (internationally released as The Police Serve the Citizens?) is a 1973 Italian giallo-poliziottesco film directed by Romolo Guerrieri. The film is set in Genova.

Cast
Enrico Maria Salerno: Commissioner Nicola Sironi
Giuseppe Pambieri: Commissioner Marino
John Steiner: Lambro
Venantino Venantini: Mancinelli
Alessandro Momo: Michele Sironi
Memmo Carotenuto: Baron
Marie Sophie Persson: Cristina
Daniel Gélin: Ing. Pier Paolo Brera
Gabriella Giorgelli: Eros, Prostitute
Enzo Liberti: Greengrocer

Release
The film was released on August 25, 1973. It was distributed by P.I.C. in Italy. The film grossed a total of ₤1.033 billion in Italy.