Passage 1:
Dameh
Dameh (Persian: دمه) is a village in Qaleh-ye Khvajeh Rural District, in the Central District of Andika County, Khuzestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 87, in 12 families.
Passage 2:
Rhosgoch
Rhosgoch (Welsh pronunciation; meaning: Red Moor) is a small village in the north of the island of Anglesey, Wales, about 3.5 miles (5.6 km) to the south-west of Amlwch. It is in the community of Rhosybol.
A short distance to the west of the village is the small lake Llyn Hafodol and a mile to the south is Anglesey's largest body of water the reservoir Llyn Alaw (Water Lily Lake).The village once had a station on the Anglesey Central Railway. Although the tracks still exist, no train has run on them since 1993. Also connected to the railway, was a short south-west facing spur that led to an oil terminal. This was linked to a floating dock in the sea off of Amlwch, where super-tankers could dock in all tides and feed oil via Rhosgoch and a pipeline to Stanlow oil refinery. This operation lasted for 16 years between 1974 and 1990.The first tornado of the record-breaking 1981 United Kingdom tornado outbreak, an F1/T2 tornado, touched down close to Rhosgoch at around 10:19 local time on 23 November 1981.
Passage 3:
Khosrow, Andika
Khosrow (Persian: خسرو) is a village in Qaleh-ye Khvajeh Rural District, in the Central District of Andika County, Khuzestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 70, in 13 families.
Passage 4:
Qaleh-ye Sahar
Qaleh-ye Sahar (Persian: قلعه سحر, also Romanized as Qal‘eh-ye Saḩar and Qal‘eh Sahar; also known as Qal‘eh-ye Saḩar Alhā’ī) is a village in Elhayi Rural District, in the Central District of Ahvaz County, Khuzestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 801, in 129 families.
Passage 5:
Qaleh-ye Askar
Qaleh-ye Askar or Qaleh Askar (Persian: قلعه عسكر), also rendered as Qaleh-ye Asgar and Qaleh Asgar may refer to:

Qaleh-ye Askar, Bam
Qaleh Askar, Bardsir
Qaleh Asgar Rural District
Passage 6:
Gohar, Iran
Gohar (Persian: گهر) is a village in Qaleh-ye Khvajeh Rural District, in the Central District of Andika County, Khuzestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 85, in 11 families.
Passage 7:
Qaleh-ye Zaras
Qaleh-ye Zaras (Persian: قلعه زراس, also Romanized as Qal‘eh-ye Zarās, Qal‘eh Zarās, and Qal‘eh Zarrās; also known as Ghal’eh Zaras) is a village in Qaleh-ye Khvajeh Rural District, in the Central District of Andika County, Khuzestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 291, in 49 families.
Passage 8:
Qaleh-ye Pain
Qaleh-ye Pain (Persian: قلعه پائين) may refer to:

Qaleh-ye Pain, Bavanat
Qaleh-ye Pain, Marvdasht
Qaleh-ye Pain Baram
Qaleh-ye Pain Deh Shah
Passage 9:
Qaleh-ye Bakhtiar
Qaleh-ye Bakhtiar or Qaleh-ye Bakhteyar (Persian: قلعه بختيار) may refer to:

Qaleh-ye Bakhtiar, Chaharmahal and Bakhtiari
Qaleh-ye Bakhtiar, Hamadan
Passage 10:
Qaleh-ye Nashin Shahi
Qaleh-ye Nashin Shahi (Persian: قلعه نشين شاهي, also Romanized as Qalʿeh Nashīn Shāhī; also known as Qaleh-ye Shinshahi) is a village in Shurab Rural District, Veysian District, Dowreh County, Lorestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 72, in 14 families.