Passage 1:
Sonic Powered
Sonic Powered Co., Ltd. is a Japanese software development company based in Nagoya, Aichi Prefecture. It mainly focuses on mobile and console games, and software for business purposes.

History
Sonic Powered was first formed in Nagoya on February 14, 1995. Then incorporated on April 1, 1998.
The company was developing games such as Tetris and Space invaders for Sharp Zaurus, a PDA of Japanese brand Sharp.
In 2006, the company started developing simulation games such as I am an Air Traffic Controller Airport Hero (for PSP and later for 3DS) and later Japanese Rail Sim 3D for 3DS. The Japanese Rail Sim series uses real-life footage of Japanese railways.
A few of the Airport Hero and most of the Japanese Rail Sim games are translated and released in North America and Europe. And following the game Waku Waku Sweets: Happy Sweets Making for 3DS being localized and released in 2018, over 4 years after its original release in Japan, it seems fair to assume the company is not focusing solely on the Japanese market anymore.

Video games
Game in all territories:
Actraiser Renaissance (2021, Switch, PS4)
Games only in Japanese:

Games also released in other languages:
Passage 2:
Mobile and Ohio Railroad Depot
Mobile and Ohio Railroad Depot may refer to:

Mobile and Ohio Railroad Depot (Murphysboro, Illinois), listed on the National Register of Historic Places in Jackson County, Illinois
Mobile and Ohio Railroad Depot (Aberdeen, Mississippi), listed on the National Register of Historic Places in Monroe County, Mississippi
Passage 3:
List of Roman Catholic churches in Leicester
This is a list of Catholic churches in greater Leicester, in Leicestershire, England, which corresponds to the area of the Deanery of Leicester in terms of Catholic governance. The Deanery of Leicester falls under the Roman Catholic Diocese of Nottingham and covers the city of Leicester and its surroundings, including several communities within and without the city limits: Braunstone, New Parks, Aylestone, Eyres Monsell, Wigston, Netherhall, Rushey Mead, Beaumont Leys, Knighton, Oadby, Birstall, Rothley, Market Harborough, Husbands Bosworth, Earl Shilton, Hinckley, Market Bosworth, Lutterworth, and Narborough.A deanery is a geographical group of parishes under the oversight of an appointed dean, which as of 2020 is the Rev. Mgr. John Hadley.

Churches
The Roman Catholic church assisted in the creation of a Polish Catholic church located on Wakerley Road in Leicester. Its parish was established in 1948 and celebrated its 70th anniversary in 2018. It was created to serve members of the Polish Armed Forces and their families in nearby military camps, and began with Dominican support by meeting within the Roman Catholic Holy Cross Priory. In the 1960s, with more than 4,000 parishioners, an effort to raise funds and secure a separate facility was undertaken, resulting in the parish assuming use of a former Methodist church on Melbourne Road.

Former churches
The chapel of Rothley Temple, built c.1240, associated with the Knights Templar and the Knights Hospitaller, survives as part of the Rothley Court Hotel in the village of Rothley.
Ruins of the Abbey of Saint Mary de Pratis, more commonly known as Leicester Abbey, survive, and are Grade I listed.  The abbey was an Augustinian religious house, founded in the 12th century by Robert de Beaumont, 2nd Earl of Leicester, and grew to become the wealthiest religious establishment within Leicestershire. Looted and destroyed in 1645 during the English Civil War.
There was a church named St. Michael's, of one of Leicester's oldest parishes, which was demolished by about 1450.  "Very little is known" about the church. It was perhaps located near what is now Vine Street and Elbow Lane.  This was in the northeast part of the medieval walled town, an area which is believed to have largely depopulated after devastation in the siege of 1173.

See also
List of Roman Catholic churches in the United Kingdom
Anglican churches in Leicester
Roman Catholic Diocese of Nottingham
Passage 4:
Open Mobile
Open Mobile was a mobile network operator that offers mobile phone services exclusively in Puerto Rico. The company was established on June 12, 2007, as a relaunch of NewComm Wireless Services (formerly d/b/a Movistar). Its new owners, M/C Partners and Columbia Capital, acquired Movistar's assets for $160 million USD after Movistar filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in December 2006.
Open Mobile's business model is based on the advance payment and unlimited local call services. The company was able to achieve positive EBITDA after 5 months of its relaunch. Since 2015, the company began to offer safelink mobile re-certification procedures.In 2014, Verizon Wireless signed a 2G and 3G roaming agreement with Open Mobile to allow Verizon customers to use Open Mobile's network without charge. This agreement came when Claro shut down the former Verizon CDMA network in Puerto Rico in favor of GSM, UMTS, and LTE.
On February 23, 2017, Sprint and Open Mobile announced an agreement to combine their businesses in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands into a new joint venture. Both companies will continue to operate separately until the transaction closes. The transaction close was subject to review and approval by the Federal Communications Commission, along with other regulatory authorities. The merger was approved in September 2017, with Sprint becoming the majority shareholder.In the summer of 2018, all of the Open Mobile stores were changed to Boost Mobile stores.As part of Sprint's merger with T-Mobile, Open Mobile customers will be transferred to T-Mobile. Customers who choose not to be transferred will be able to find a new carrier.
Passage 5:
Mobile and Ohio Railroad
The Mobile and Ohio Railroad was a railroad in the Southern U.S. The M&O was chartered in January and February 1848 by the states of Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, and Tennessee.  It was planned to span the distance between the seaport of Mobile, Alabama and the Ohio River near Cairo, Illinois.  On September 13, 1940 it was merged with the Gulf, Mobile and Northern Railroad to form the Gulf, Mobile and Ohio Railroad.At the end of 1925 M&O operated 1,161 miles (1,868 km) of road and 1,536 miles (2,472 km) of track; that year it reported 1785 million ton-miles of revenue freight and 49 million passenger-miles.

History
The Mobile and Ohio Railroad was conceived after hard times in Mobile following the Panic of 1837. The port was not generating the business that it had before the panic and businessmen and citizens in the city were inspired with a plan for a railroad to restore commerce to the city.  The first section of track opened for service in 1852 between Mobile and  Citronelle, Alabama and was constructed in 5 ft (1,524 mm) gauge. The line made it to Columbus, Kentucky on April 22, 1861, steamboats were then used to connect with the Illinois Central Railroad at Cairo.
The start of the Civil War shortly after the completion of the line saw it converted to military use and it quickly became a military target for both sides during the war.  Following the conflict the M&O had to be almost entirely rebuilt and was facing near total financial ruin due in part to an unpaid debt of $5,228,562 that had been owed by the Confederate government.  It was placed in receivership in 1875 and did not emerge until eight years later.By 1870 the operators had seen the need to complete the line all the way to Cairo and make it the northern terminus instead of Columbus, but financial problems stood in the way.  Finally on May 1, 1882 the extension to Cairo was opened.  The company then acquired the St. Louis and Cairo Railroad, which was narrow gauge.  They converted it to 4 ft 8+1⁄2 in (1,435 mm) standard gauge and had a line from Mobile to St. Louis, Missouri.In 1896 the company decided to build a line from its Columbus, Mississippi, terminal toward Florida.  On June 30, 1898 the Tuscaloosa to Montgomery line opened in Alabama, along with two short branch lines.  That same year they decided to build a 39-mile (63 km) line from Mobile to Alabama Port and Bayou La Batre, naming it the Mobile and Bay Shore Railway.  It was completed in 1899.The M&O's stockholders and bondholders accepted a stock exchange plan in 1901 from Southern Railway.  A merger of the two was attempted in 1902 but vetoed by Mississippi governor James K. Vardaman.  Thereafter the M&O continued operations under Southern's control. From 1908 the M&O was considered to be a highly prosperous railroad, but net income declined sharply after 1926 and by 1930 the M&O had a net deficit of almost $1,000,000.  On June 3, 1932, the M&O went into receivership again.  Southern was accused of having violated the Clayton Antitrust Act by using the M&O for its own profit at the expense of the M&O, though the case was dropped in 1933.  Southern sold its M&O bonds in 1940 to the Gulf, Mobile and Northern Railroad.  The GM&N was then combined with the M&O to form the Gulf, Mobile and Ohio Railroad.

See also
List of defunct Alabama railroads
List of defunct Illinois railroads
List of defunct Kentucky railroads
List of defunct Mississippi railroads
List of defunct Missouri railroads
List of defunct Tennessee railroads
Passage 6:
Open Mobile (disambiguation)
Open Mobile is a mobile network operator offering mobile phone services exclusively in Puerto Rico
OpenMobile is a mobile network operator offering mobile phone services exclusively in The Netherlands
Open Mobile may also refer to:

Open Mobile Terminal Platform, a former industry forum in the wireless services area
Open Mobile Alliance, a standards body which develops open standards for the mobile phone industry
Passage 7:
Interstate 10 in Alabama
Interstate 10 (I-10) is a part of the Interstate Highway System that runs from Santa Monica, California, to Jacksonville, Florida. In Alabama, the Interstate Highway runs 66.269 miles (106.650 km) from the Mississippi state line near Grand Bay east to the Florida state line at the Perdido River. I-10 is the primary east–west highway of the Gulf Coast region of Alabama. The highway connects Mobile, the largest city in South Alabama, with Pascagoula, Mississippi, to the west and Pensacola, Florida, to the east. Within the state, the highway connects Mobile and Mobile County with the Baldwin County communities of Daphne and Fairhope. I-10 connects Mobile and Baldwin County by crossing the northern end of Mobile Bay and the southern end of the Mobile-Tensaw River Delta via the George Wallace Tunnel in Mobile and the Jubilee Parkway viaduct system between Mobile and Daphne.

Route description
I-10 enters Mobile County from Jackson County, Mississippi, near just north of where US Route 90 (US 90) crosses the state line near Grand Bay. The four-lane freeway has an eastbound welcome center ahead of its first interchange, a diamond interchange with the western end of State Route 188 (SR 188) due north of the center of Grand Bay. I-10 continues east-northeast through a partial cloverleaf interchange with County Road 39 (CR 39) north of Irvington. The highway crosses the Fowl River and curves more northeast through a diamond interchange with CR 30 (Theodore Dawes Road) west of the community of Theodore. I-10 expands to six lanes ahead of a pair of interchanges near Tillmans Corner: a partial cloverleaf interchange with US 90 (Government Boulevard) and a full cloverleaf interchange with SR 193 (Rangeline Road).

I-10 enters the city of Mobile at Halls Mill Creek just east of SR 193. The highway has a directional-T interchange with the southern end of I-65, which serves Montgomery and Birmingham. I-10 continues northeast from I-65 as an eight-lane freeway that parallels CSX's NO&M Subdivision rail line. The highway has a complex interchange with SR 163 (Dauphin Island Parkway) just east of the Dog River; the interchange includes a flyover from southbound SR 163 to eastbound I-10 and a left-ramp flyover from westbound I-10 to southbound SR 163. I-10 and the railroad form the northern margin of Mobile Aeroplex at Brookley (formerly Brookley Air Force Base), along which the freeway has a partial cloverleaf interchange with Michigan Avenue. North of the airport, the interstate has a pair of half-diamond interchanges with Duval Street and Broad Street; the half-interchanges are connected by a one-way pair of frontage roads.I-10 crosses over a Canadian National Railway/Illinois Central Railroad rail line and leaves the CSX rail line as it curves north toward downtown Mobile. The freeway has a four-ramp partial cloverleaf junction with Virginia Street and a pair of half-diamond interchanges with Texas Street (southbound exit, northbound entrance) and Canal Street (northbound exit, southbound exit). North of Canal Street, I-10 has a directional-T interchange with Water Street, which provides access to downtown Mobile. Within that interchange, the freeway reduces to four lanes and curves east and descends into the George Wallace Tunnel to pass under the Mobile River. I-10 resurfaces on Blakeley Island and has an interchange with US 90 and US 98 (Battleship Parkway) west of Battleship Memorial Park.

I-10 leaves Blakeley Island, the city of Mobile, and Mobile County on Jubilee Parkway, a dual-viaduct crossing of several rivers at the northern end of Mobile Bay. The first major segment is a crossing of Polecat Bay, and the confluence of the Spanish River and the Tensaw River, within which the interstate enters Baldwin County. The viaduct continues through a cut in an island, then continues across Chacaloochee Bay, within which the freeway has a diamond interchange with US 90 and US 98 (Battleship Parkway), which mostly follow causeways across the great expanse of water. Beyond the interchange, I-10 continues across the bay and the mouth of the Apalachee River, Bay John, the mouth of the Blakeley River, and D'Olive Bay. The dual viaducts reach the eastern shore just west of a five-ramp partial cloverleaf interchange with US 90 and US 98 south of the center of Spanish Fort and north of Fairhope.

I-10 continues east as a four-lane freeway along the northern edge of the city of Daphne. The freeway has a diverging diamond interchange with SR 181 (Malbis Plantation Parkway) in the northeastern corner of the city near the hamlet of Malbis. I-10 has a four-ramp partial cloverleaf interchange with SR 59 on the northern edge of Loxley. The interstate crosses the Fish River and has a diamond interchange with the Baldwin Beach Express, a new county highway that connects I-10 with the beach communities of Gulf Shores and Orange Beach. I-10 has one more interchange in Alabama, a diamond interchange with CR 64 (Wilcox Road). Beyond CR 64, the freeway parallels and then crosses the Styx River, then the westbound highway has a welcome center just west of the Perdido River, where I-10 leaves Alabama and enters Escambia County, Florida, and Pensacola.

Exit list
See also
U.S. roads portal
Passage 8:
PrimeStar
PrimeStar was a U.S. direct broadcast satellite broadcasting company formed in 1991 by a consortium of cable television system operators (TCI Satellite Entertainment Group, Time Warner Cable, Cox Communications, Comcast and MediaOne) and GE Americom, the satellite arm of General Electric, collectively referred to as the PrimeStar Partners. PrimeStar was the first medium-powered DBS system in the United States but slowly declined in popularity with the arrival of DirecTV in 1994 and Dish Network in 1996.

Technology
PrimeStar was a medium-powered DBS-style system utilizing FSS technology that used a larger 3-foot (91 cm) satellite dish to receive signals.
Broadcast originally in analog, they later converted to digital technology.  The system used the DigiCipher 1 system for conditional access control and video compression.  The video format was MPEG-2. Primestar's satellite receivers were made by General Instrument.
PrimeStar was owned by a consortium of cable television companies who leased equipment to subscribers through the local cable company.
The company was in the process of converting to a high-powered DBS platform when it was purchased and shut down by DirecTV.  The Tempo-1 and Tempo-2 DBS satellites acquired by PrimeStar from the defunct ASkyB were renamed DirecTV-5 and DirecTV-6, respectively.

History
The system initially launched using medium-powered FSS satellites that were facing obsolescence with the onset of high-powered DBS and its much smaller, eighteen-inch satellite dishes.  In a move to convert the platform to DBS, PrimeStar, originally based in Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania before moving to the suburbs of Denver, Colorado in 1997,  bid for the 110-degree satellite location that was eventually awarded to a never-launched direct broadcast satellite service by MCI and News Corporation called ASkyB, or American Sky Broadcasting, named after News Corp's British Sky Broadcasting, also named as a combination of the merged companies British Satellite Broadcasting and Sky Television.
The ASkyB company sold the incomplete Tempo 1 and Tempo 2 DBS satellites to PrimeStar in the process of going out of business.  PrimeStar launched Tempo-2 in 1997 but it was not used for many years. PrimeStar stored the other satellite, Tempo-1, until the company and the two satellites were purchased by DirecTV.  DirecTV eventually launched the Tempo 1 satellite after years of delays as the DirecTV-5 satellite in 2002. Meanwhile, ASkyB's license for the 110-degree satellite location, and an uplink center, was resold to EchoStar, the parent company of Dish Network. The 110-degree satellite is now named EchoStar West 110 and is the most commonly used satellite, along with 119 as both can be received with a single wide-format parabolic dish, providing signal to North America.
PrimeStar Partners sold its assets to DirecTV in 1999 and after briefly being known as PrimeStar by DirecTV all subscribers were converted to the DirecTV platform. The PrimeStar brand and its FSS broadcast platform was shut down. Meanwhile, Tempo 1 and Tempo 2 satellite remained and were renamed DirecTV-5 and DirecTV-6, respectively, and moved to several locations to serve DirecTV customers.

Features
During Primestar's years as a competing satellite television provider, it originally had a 95-channel lineup. However, beginning on April 20, 1997, Primestar announced it would add 65 channels, for a total of 160 channels. However, due to a lack of capacity on the FSS platform, many channels only aired for part of the day or week (e.g., MuchMusic USA aired weekdays from 2:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. ET, and weekends from 12:00 to 5:00 p.m. ET). Primestar, also at this time in 1997, grouped their channels by category, (e.g., "NEWS", "FAMILY", "SPORTS", "MOVIES", etc.), and added a color-coded button on the remote for each category. When pressed, it would bring the user to the beginning of that category, (e.g., pressing the orange "FAMILY" button would bring the user to Nickelodeon which was first in that category). Primestar called this feature "Hyper-Surfing". (Earlier remotes that lacked the buttons could instead use repetitive channel numbers to bring them to the desired category.)

New uses for old equipment
Old PrimeStar satellite dishes are popular among hobbyists for free-to-air (FTA) satellite broadcasts on the Ku band transponders of FSS satellites.
The dishes are also popular for wireless computer networking as high-gain Wi-Fi antennas. The antennas are also used by amateur (ham) radio operators to transmit two-way amateur television.

See also
AlphaStar (satellite broadcasting service), a defunct satellite broadcaster that also used medium-powered FSS satellites and larger dishes.
DirecTV, a direct competitor using high-powered DBS satellites and smaller dishes.
Dish Network, a direct competitor using high-powered DBS satellites and smaller dishes.
Orby TV, a short-lived discount DBS operator that leased service instead of operating their own fleet.
Shaw Direct, a Canadian broadcaster using medium-powered FSS satellites and larger dishes.
Bell Satellite TV, a Canadian broadcaster using high-powered DBS satellites and smaller dishes.
Free-to-air
Passage 9:
Gulf, Mobile and Ohio Passenger Terminal
The Gulf, Mobile and Ohio Passenger Terminal is a historic train station in Mobile, Alabama, United States.  Architect P. Thornton Marye designed the Mission Revival style terminal for the Mobile and Ohio Railroad.  It was completed in 1907 at a total cost of $575,000.  The Mobile and Ohio merged with the Gulf, Mobile and Northern Railroad in 1940 to form the Gulf, Mobile and Ohio Railroad.

Trains in final years
Major trains served:

Gulf, Mobile & Ohio:
Gulf Coast Rebel: St. Louis, Missouri - Mobile
Southern Railway:
Goldenrod: Birmingham, Alabama - Mobile

Demise
The last GM&O passenger trains into Mobile terminal station were the Gulf Coast Rebels, which made their last runs on October 14, 1958.  Louisville & Nashville passenger service in Mobile called at a separate L&N station located about 1 mile distant.  Passenger service in the Amtrak era continued at the former L&N passenger station Mobile station. GM&O Terminal Station continued to serve as railroad offices. It was placed on the National Register of Historic Places on August 15, 1975. It had suffered neglect, extensive interior alteration, and partial removal of the train shed by this time. The Gulf, Mobile and Ohio Railroad vacated the old terminal building in 1986 and for fifteen years it suffered from demolition-by-neglect. The Alabama Historical Commission and the Alabama Trust for Historic Preservation named it as one of their "Places in Peril" in 1996. In 2001 the City of Mobile and a private company invested more than $18 million to restore the local landmark with the developer taking advantage of the Federal Historic Preservation Tax Incentive program. Today the building houses private offices and the city's The Wave Transit System. The renovated facility was extensively damaged by flooding during Hurricane Katrina.

See also
Mobile station (Amtrak)
Passage 10:
Open Mobile Terminal Platform
The Open Mobile Terminal Platform (OMTP) was a forum created by mobile network operators to discuss standards with manufacturers of mobile phones and other mobile devices.  During its lifetime, the OMTP included manufacturers such as Huawei, LG Electronics, Motorola, Nokia, Samsung and Sony Ericsson.

Membership
OMTP was originally set up by leading mobile operators.  At the time it transitioned into the Wholesale Applications Community at the end of June 2010, there were nine full members: AT&T, Deutsche Telekom AG, KT, Orange, Smart Communications, Telecom Italia, Telefónica, Telenor and Vodafone. OMTP also had the support of two sponsors, Ericsson and Nokia.

Activities
OMTP recommendations have hugely helped to standardise mobile operator terminal requirements, and its work has gone towards helping to defragment and deoptionalise operators' recommendations. OMTP's focus was on gathering and driving mobile terminal requirements, and publishing their findings in their Recommendations. OMTP was technology neutral, with its recommendations intended for deployment across the range of technology platforms, operating systems (OS) and middleware layers.
OMTP is perhaps best known for its work in the field of mobile security, but its work encompassed the full range of mobile device capabilities. OMTP published recommendations in 2007 and early 2008 on areas such as Positioning Enablers, Advanced Device Management, IMS and Mobile VoIP. Later, the Advanced Trusted Environment: OMTP TR1 and its supporting document, 'Security Threats on Embedded Consumer Devices' were released, with the endorsement of the UK Home Secretary, Jacqui Smith.OMTP also published requirements document addressing support for advanced SIM cards. This document defines also advanced profiles for Smart Card Web Server, High Speed Protocol, Mobile TV and Contactless.OMTP has also made significant progress in getting support for the use of micro-USB as a standard connector for data and power. A full list of their recommendations can be found at GSMA.com.

BONDI
In 2008, OMTP launched a new initiative called BONDI (named after the Australian beach); the initiative defined new interfaces (JavaScript APIs) and a security framework (based on XACML policy description) to enable the access to mobile phone functionalities (Application Invocation, Application Settings, Camera, Communications Log, Gallery, Location, Messaging, Persistent Data, Personal Information, Phone Status, User Interaction) from browser and widget engine in a secure way. The BONDI initiative also had an open source Reference Implementation at https://web.archive.org/web/20130509121758/https://web.archive.org/web/20130509121758/http://bondi.omtp.org//. An Approved Release 1.0 of BONDI was issued in June 2009.
An open source project for a comprehensive BONDI SDK was started at https://web.archive.org/web/20130528132818/http://bondisdk.org/.

Universal Charging System
In February 2009, OMTP expanded its Local Connectivity specification (based on micro-USB) to describe requirements for a common charger and common connector to enable sharing the same battery charger through different phones. The OMTP Common Charging and Local Data Connectivity was adopted by GSM Association in the Universal Charging System (UCS) initiative. This has been further endorsed by the CTIA and the ITU. In June, 2009 the European Commission reached an agreement with several major mobile phone providers on requirements for a common External Power Supply (EPS) to be compatible with new data-enabled phones sold in the European Union.  The EPS shares most of the key attributes of the UCS charger.

Wholesale Applications Community
In June 2010, the OMTP transitioned itself into the new Wholesale Applications Community. All OMTP activities ceased at that time and were either taken over within the WAC organisation or other standards or industry associations. In turn, in July 2012 WAC itself was closed, with the OMTP standards being transferred to GSMA, and other assets and personnel transferring to Apigee.

See also
Mobile security
TRRS standards