Passage 1:
Agnes of Jesus
Agnes of Jesus, OP (born Agnès Galand and also known as Agnes of Langeac; November 17, 1602 – October 19, 1634) was a French Catholic nun of the Dominican Order. She was prioress of her monastery at Langeac, and is venerated in the Catholic Church, having been beatified by Pope John Paul II on November 20, 1994.

Life
Agnès Galand was born on November 17, 1602, in Le Puy-en-Velay, France, the third of seven children of Pierre Galand, a cutler by trade, and his wife, Guillemette Massiote. When she was five years old, Galand was entrusted to a religious institute for her education. Even from that early age, she showed a strong sense of spiritual maturity. She consecrated herself to the Virgin Mary at the age of seven.
Galand joined the Dominican Monastery of St. Catherine of Siena at Langeac in 1623. At her receiving of the religious habit she took the name Agnes of Jesus. Soon after her own profession, she was assigned to serve as the Mistress of novices for the community. Galand was elected to lead her community as prioress in 1627. She was later deposed from this office, but she accepted her demotion with indifference and grace.She died on October 19, 1634, in Langeac.

Spiritual legacy
Notable visions
Galand was noted even during her lifetime as a mystic. Louis Marie de Montfort records the following anecdote:

I shall simply relate an incident which I read in the life of Mother Agnes of Jesus, a Dominican nun of the convent of Langeac in Auvergne. ... One day the Blessed Virgin appeared to Mother Agnes and put a gold chain around her neck to show her how happy she was that Mother Agnes had become the slave of both her and her Son. And St. Cecilia, who accompanied our Lady, said to her, "Happy are the faithful slaves of the Queen of Heaven, for they will enjoy true freedom."
In 1631, Galand experienced the most famous of her visions, in which the Blessed Virgin Mary urged her to pray for an unknown priest with the command, "Pray to my Son for the Abbé of Prébrac (near Cugnaux)." Jean-Jacques Olier was the current holder of that office, and while at a retreat led by Vincent de Paul, he experienced a vision in which Galand appeared to him, though he was unacquainted with her. He sought out the nun who had appeared to him in the dream. When he met Galand, she told him: "I have received orders from the Holy Virgin to pray for you. God has destined you to open the first seminaries in France." Olier would go on to found the Society of Saint-Sulpice. Before her death, she related to her community her great desire that they pray for priests. She also had visions of both her guardian angel and Satan.

Veneration and beatification
A cause for her beatification was introduced on April 19, 1713. She was declared venerable on March 19, 1808, by Pope Pius VII. Pope John Paul II beatified her on November 20, 1994. At her beatification ceremony, John Paul II called Galand "truly blessed", noting her willingness to submit to God's plan for her, "offering her intellect, will, and freedom to the Son of Man, that he might transform them and harmonize them totally with his own!" Her feast day is October 19.Hyacinthe-Marie Cormier, beatified on the same day as Galand, cited the example of Galand's life as his inspiration for joining the Dominican Order. He would go on to be elected the seventy-sixth Master General of the Dominicans in 1904.
Passage 2:
Agnes of Brandenburg
Agnes of Brandenburg (c. 1257 – 29 September 1304) was a Danish Queen consort by marriage to King Eric V of Denmark. As a widow, she served as the regent of Denmark for her son, King Eric VI, during his minority from 1286 until 1293. She was duchess regnant of Estonia.

Life
She was born to John I, Margrave of Brandenburg (d. 1266) and Brigitte of Saxony, the daughter of Albert I, Duke of Saxony. 
She married King Eric V of Denmark at Schleswig on 11 November 1273. The marriage was probably agreed upon during King Eric's captivity in Brandenburg by Agnes' father from 1261 to 1264. Tradition claims that the King of Denmark was released from captivity on his promise to marry Agnes without a dowry. Denmark and Brandenburg, however, had a long tradition of dynastic marriages between them.

Regency
In 1286, she became a Queen dowager and the Regent of Denmark during the minority of her son. The details of her regency are not known more closely, and it is hard to determine which of the decisions were made by her, and which was made by the council. Peder Nielsen Hoseøl was also very influential in the regency, and she is likely to have received support from her family. In 1290, she financed a granted lime painting in St. Bendt's Church in Ringsted, which depicts her in a dominating way. Her son was declared of legal majority in 1293, thus ending her formal regency.

Later life
Married in 1293 to count Gerhard II of Holstein-Plön (d. 1312) with whom she had the son John III, Count of Holstein-Plön. She often visited Denmark also after her second marriage, and it continued to be a second home. She died on 29 September 1304, and was buried in Denmark.

Gallery
Passage 3:
Agnes of Hohenstaufen
Agnes of Hohenstaufen (1176 – 7 or 9 May 1204) was the daughter and heiress of the Hohenstaufen count palatine Conrad of the Rhine. She was Countess of the Palatinate herself from 1195 until her death, as the wife of the Welf count palatine Henry V.

Life
Agnes' father Conrad of Hohenstaufen was a younger half-brother of Emperor Frederick Barbarossa, who had enfeoffed him with the Electoral Palatinate in 1156. A cautious and thoughtful politician, he aimed for peace and reconciliation in the Empire. Even before 1180, he had betrothed his daughter to Henry V, the eldest son of the rebellious Saxon duke Henry the Lion, in order to defuse the re-emerging conflict between the Hohenstaufen and Welf dynasties.
In 1193, however, Barbarossa's son and successor, Emperor Henry VI, wanted to create a political alliance with King Philip II of France and planned to marry his cousin Agnes to Philip II. When the young Welf scion Henry V heard of this plan, he contacted Agnes' parents. Her father avoided definitive statements on her betrothal, as he preferred a marriage with the French king, but also did not want to offend Henry V, whom Agnes revered fanatically.
Agnes' mother Irmengard (d. 1197), daughter of Count Berthold I of Henneberg, continued to advocate her daughter's marriage with the Welf prince. A little later she took advantage of the absence of her husband, who stayed at Henry VI's court, to thwart the Emperor's plan. She invited the young Welf to Stahleck Castle, where he and Agnes were married in January or February 1194.Furious Emperor Henry VI felt betrayed and demanded that Conrad immediately annul the marriage.  Conrad, however, dropped his initial resistance to the marriage and, seeing as it had already been blessed in Church, chose to convince his nephew Henry VI of the domestic political benefits of this marriage. Conrad's sons had died young and Henry VI could assure the succession in the Electoral Palatinate by enfeoffing Henry the Welf. Additionally, Conrad and Agnes on the occasion of the marital union convinced the emperor to pardon Henry the Lion, who had been deposed and outlawed by Frederick Barbarossa in 1180.
The reconciliation between Emperor Henry VI and Duke Henry the Lion was solemnly held in March 1194 at the Imperial Palace of Tilleda. Agnes and her husband Henry V had done their bit to prepare for this major domestic event with their unscheduled marriage at Stahleck Castle. Moreover, Emperor Henry VI had to settle the conflict with the House of Welf, to ensure peace in the Holy Roman Empire while enforcing his claims on the Kingdom  of Sicily after the death of King Tancred on 20 February 1194.

Issue
Agnes and Henry had a son and two daughters:

Henry, was Count Palatine of the Rhine from 1212 to 1214
Irmengard (1200–1260), married Herman V, Margrave of Baden-Baden
Agnes (1201–1267), married Duke Otto II of Bavaria.  Agnes and Otto became the ancestors of the House of Wittelsbach in Bavaria and the Palatinate. Her daughter Elisabeth was the mother of Conradin. Her son Louis was the father of Emperor Louis IV.

Legacy
During the Romanticism period in the 19th century, the historic picture of Agnes of Hohenstaufen was blissfully idealised. In Christian Dietrich Grabbe's drama entitled Henry VI, published in 1830, she is depicted as a carefree but resolute girl, who even addresses the Imperial Diet to assert her marriage with the man she loves. Fighting for the love and happiness of her reluctant fiancé, she brings about the ultimate reconciliation of the Welf and Hohenstaufen families on the deathbed of her father-in-law, Henry the Lion, who called her "a rose blossoming between to rocks". In fact, it was Agnes' mother Irmengard who had arranged the marriage.
The opera Agnes von Hohenstaufen by the Italian composer Gaspare Spontini, based on the libretto by Ernst Raupach, had its premiere on 12 June 1829 at the Royal Opera Berlin.
Passage 4:
Matilda of Brabant, Countess of Artois
Matilda of Brabant (14 June 1224 – 29 September 1288) was the eldest daughter of Henry II, Duke of Brabant and his first wife Marie of Hohenstaufen.

Marriages and children
On 14 June 1237, which was her 13th birthday, Matilda married her first husband Robert I of Artois. Robert was the son of Louis VIII of France and Blanche of Castile. They had:

Blanche of Artois (1248 – 2 May 1302). Married first Henry I of Navarre and secondly Edmund Crouchback, 1st Earl of Lancaster.
Robert II, Count of Artois (1250 – 11 July 1302 at the Battle of the Golden Spurs).On 8 February 1250, Robert I was killed while participating in the Seventh Crusade.  On 16 January 1255, Matilda married her second husband Guy III, Count of Saint-Pol. He was a younger son of Hugh I, Count of Blois and Mary, Countess of Blois. They had:

Hugh II, Count of Blois (died 1307), Count of Saint Pol and later Count of Blois
Guy IV, Count of Saint-Pol (died 1317), Count of Saint Pol
Jacques I of Leuze-Châtillon (died 11 July 1302 at the Battle of the Golden Spurs), first of the lords of Leuze, married Catherine de Condé and had issue; his descendants brought Condé, Carency, etc. into the House of Bourbon.
Beatrix (died 1304), married John I of Brienne, Count of Eu
Jeanne, married Guillaume III de Chauvigny, Lord of Châteauroux
Gertrude, married Florent, Lord of Mechelen (French: Malines).
Passage 5:
Agnes of the Palatinate
Agnes of the Palatinate (1201–1267) was a daughter of Henry V, Count Palatine of the Rhine and his first wife Agnes of Hohenstaufen, daughter of Conrad, Count Palatine of the Rhine. Agnes was Duchess of Bavaria by her marriage to Otto II Wittelsbach, Duke of Bavaria.

Family
Agnes was the youngest of three children born to her father by both of his marriages. Her father's second wife, also called Agnes, was the daughter of Conrad II, Margrave of Lusatia. Agnes' older sister was Irmgard, wife of Herman V, Margrave of Baden-Baden and her brother was Henry VI, Count Palatine of the Rhine.

Marriage
Agnes married Otto II at Worms when he came of age in 1222. With this marriage, the Wittelsbach family inherited Palatinate and kept it as a Wittelsbach possession until 1918. Since that time also the lion has become a heraldic symbol in the coat-of-arms for Bavaria and the Palatinate.
In 1231 upon the death of Otto's father, Louis I, Duke of Bavaria, Otto and Agnes became Duke and Duchess of Bavaria.
After a dispute with Emperor Frederick II was ended, Otto joined the Hohenstaufen party in 1241. Their daughter, Elizabeth, was married to Frederick's son Conrad IV. Because of this, Otto was excommunicated by the pope.
Within thirty-one years of marriage, the couple had five children:

Louis II, Duke of Bavaria (13 April 1229, Heidelberg – 2 February 1294, Heidelberg).
Henry XIII, Duke of Bavaria (19 November 1235, Landshut – 3 February 1290, Burghausen).
Elisabeth of Bavaria, Queen of Germany (c. 1227, Landshut – 9 October 1273), married to:
1246 in Vohburg to Conrad IV of Germany;
1259 in Munich to Count Meinhard II of Gorizia-Tyrol, Duke of Carinthia.
Sophie (1236, Landshut – 9 August 1289, Castle Hirschberg), married 1258 to Count Gerhard IV of Sulzbach and Hirschberg.
Agnes (c. 1240–c. 1306), a nun.Otto died 29 November 1253. Agnes died fourteen years later in 1267. She is buried at Scheyern.

Ancestry
Passage 6:
Henry V, Count Palatine of the Rhine
Henry V, the Elder of Brunswick (German: Heinrich der Ältere von Braunschweig; c. 1173 – 28 April 1227), a member of the House of Welf, was Count Palatine of the Rhine from 1195 until 1212.

Life
Henry was the eldest son of Henry the Lion, Duke of Saxony and Bavaria and Matilda, the eldest daughter of King Henry II of England and Eleanor of Aquitaine. 
After his father's deposition by the Hohenstaufen emperor Frederick Barbarossa, he grew up in England. When the family returned to Germany in 1189, young Henry distinguished himself by defending the Welf residence of Braunschweig against the forces of the emperor's son King Henry VI. Peace was established the next year, provided that Henry and his younger brother Lothar (d. 1190) were held in hostage by the king. He had to join the German forces led by Henry VI, by then emperor, on the 1191 campaign to the  Kingdom of Sicily and participated in the siege of Naples. Taking advantage of the Emperor falling ill, Henry finally deserted, fled to Marseille, and returned to Germany, where he falsely proclaimed Henry VI's death and tried to underline his own abilities as a possible successor. This partly led to the withdrawal of Henry VI and the captivity of Empress Constance.
Though he was banned, he became heir to the County Palatine of the Rhine through his 1193 marriage to Agnes, a cousin of Emperor Henry VI and daughter of the Hohenstaufen count palatine Conrad. He and the emperor reconciled shortly afterwards, and upon Conrad's death in 1195, Henry was enfeoffed with his County Palatine. A close ally of the emperor, he accompanied him on the conquest of Sicily in 1194/95 and on the Crusade of 1197.After the sudden death of the emperor in 1197, Henry's younger brother Otto IV became one of two rival kings of the Holy Roman Empire. At first he supported him, but switched sides to Philip of Swabia in 1203. Having divided the Welf allodial lands with his brothers Otto and William of Winchester, Henry then ruled over the northern Saxon territories around Stade and Altencelle and also was confirmed as count palatine by King Philip. When the German throne quarrel ended with Philip's assassination in 1208, Henry again sided with Otto IV. In Imperial service, he tried to ward off the territorial claims by the Rhenish Prince-archbishops of Cologne, Trier and Mainz, though to no avail.
After he inherited further significant properties in Saxony from his brother William in 1213, Henry ceded the Palatinate to his son Henry the Younger and moved north. After his son's early death the next year, he left his Welf properties to his nephew, William's son Otto the Child, who became the first Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg in 1235. Henry died in 1227 and is entombed in Brunswick Cathedral.

Marriage and children
In 1193, Henry married Agnes of Hohenstaufen (1177–1204), daughter of Count Palatine Conrad. 
They had the following children:

Henry VI (1197–1214), married Matilda, daughter of Duke Henry I of Brabant
Irmengard (1200–1260), married Margrave Herman V of Baden
Agnes (1201–1267), married Otto II of Wittelsbach, Count palatine of the Rhine from 1214, Duke of Bavaria from 1231.Around 1209, he married Agnes of Landsberg (d. 1248), daughter of the Wettin margrave Conrad II of Lusatia.

Ancestors
Passage 7:
Anna George de Mille
Anna George de Mille (1878–1947) was an American feminist and Georgism advocate. She was the mother of Agnes George de Mille.

Biography
Anna de Mille was born in San Francisco in 1878 to Henry George and Annie Corsina Fox George. Throughout her life, she served as a prominent leader of the single-tax movement, in many leadership roles including vice president of the International Union for Land Value Taxation and Free Trade in London, and a director of the Robert Schalkenbach Foundation. In 1932 she partnered with Oscar H. Geiger to establish the Henry George School of Social Science. She served as the president of the board of trustees of said school. De Mille went on several tours promoting the single-tax movement, and was a large donor to the Henry George Collection at the New York Public Library. She served as an officer in the Henry George Foundation of Pittsburgh.In 1950, she published Henry George, Citizen of the World, a biography of her father, which was published by the University of North Carolina Press after being released in The American Journal of Economics and Sociology. De Mille also helped raise money for the restoration of Henry George's birthplace.
Passage 8:
Agnes of Aquitaine, Queen of Aragon and Navarre
Agnes of  Aquitaine (end of 1072 – 6 June 1097) was a daughter of William VIII, Duke of Aquitaine, and his third wife, Hildegarde of Burgundy.In 1081, Agnes was betrothed to Peter I of Aragon and Navarre. In 1086, the couple married in Jaca; upon Peter's succession, Agnes became queen of Aragon and Navarre. By him, Agnes had two children, both of whom predeceased their father: Peter (died 1103) and Isabella (died 1104).
Agnes died in 1097, and her husband remarried to a woman named Bertha.
Passage 9:
Judith of Hohenstaufen
Judith of Hohenstaufen, also known as Judith of Hohenstaufen or Judith of Swabia (c. 1133/1134 – 7 July 1191), a member of the Hohenstaufen dynasty, was Landgravine of Thuringia from 1150 until 1172 by her marriage with the Ludovingian landgrave Louis II. She was baptized as Judith, but was commonly called Jutta or Guta. Sometimes the Latinate form Clementia was used, or Claritia or Claricia.

Life
Judith was a daughter of Duke Frederick II of Swabia (1090–1147) and his second wife Agnes of Saarbrücken, thereby a younger half-sister of Emperor Frederick Barbarossa (1122–1190). She first appeared in contemporary sources in 1150, upon her marriage with Landgrave Louis II of Thuringia. This wedlock was intended to cement the relationship between the Thuringian Ludovingians and the imperial House of Hohenstaufen, to strengthen Emperor Barbarossa in his fierce conflict with Duke Henry the Lion and the House of Welf.
When in 1168 her husband reconciled with Henry the Lion, Judith began the construction of Runneburg Castle in Weißensee. The neighbouring Counts of Beichlingen objected, and protested to Emperor Barbarossa. However, the emperor sided with his half-sister and rejected the protests. Runneburg Castle was situated halfway between Wartburg Castle and Neuenburg Castle and became the residence of the Landgraves of Thuringia. Later during the conflicts between Germany's most powerful dynasties, the strategically located Runneburg Castle became one of the most important castles in the area.
Judith survived both her husband and her eldest son Landgrave Louis III. She died on 7 July 1191 and was buried in Reinhardsbrunn monastery next to her husband.
Her name is still omnipresent in Weißensee, which shows how highly she was regarded during her lifetime.

Grave stone
Judith's grave stone  was created in the 14th century, well after her death.  It must have been installed after the fire of 1292.  It was moved from Reinhardsbrunn to the choir of the St. George's Church in Eisenach.  
The Landgravine is depicted holding a lap dog in her left arm, while her right hand holds a scepter.  A wide cantilevered canopy, held up by two angels, is extended over her head.  The angels appear to sit on a pillow behind her head.  The inscription reads S. SOROR FRIDERICI INPERATORIS ("the sister of Emperor Frederick").
Due to the canopy, this grave stone was larger than those of the other Landgraves of Thuringia (which are also on display in the St. George church in Eisenach).  It must have made her grave very visible, even when the grave stone was part of the church floor.  The presence of the Emperor's sister in the family tree introduced additional honor, which is why her family background was emphasized in the inscription.

Marriage and issue
In 1150, Judith married Louis II, Landgrave of Thuringia.  They had the following children:

Louis III (1151–1190), succeeded her husband as Landgrave of Thuringia
Herman I (d. 1217), succeeded his brother as Landgrave of Thuringia
Henry Raspe III (c. 1155 – 18 July 1217), Count of Gudensberg
Frederick (c. 1155 – 1229), Count of Ziegenhain
Judith, married Herman II, Count of Ravensberg
Passage 10:
Agnes of Waiblingen
Agnes of Waiblingen (1072/73 – 24 September 1143), also known as Agnes of Germany, Agnes of Poitou and Agnes of Saarbrücken, was a member of the Salian imperial family.  Through her first marriage, she was Duchess of Swabia; through her second marriage, she was Margravine of Austria.

Family
She was the daughter of Henry IV, Holy Roman Emperor, and Bertha of Savoy.

First marriage
In 1079, aged seven, Agnes was betrothed to Frederick, a member of the Hohenstaufen dynasty; at the same time, Henry IV invested Frederick as the new duke of Swabia. The couple married in 1086, when Agnes was fourteen. They had twelve children, eleven of whom were named in a document found in the abbey of Lorsch:

Hedwig-Eilike (1088–1110), married Friedrich, Count of Legenfeld
Bertha-Bertrade (1089–1120), married Adalbert, Count of Elchingen
Frederick II of Swabia
Hildegard
Conrad III of Germany
Gisihild-Gisela
Heinrich (1096–1105)
Beatrix (1098–1130), became an abbess
Kunigunde-Cuniza (1100–1120/1126), wife of Henry X, Duke of Bavaria (1108–1139)
Sophia, married Konrad II, Count of Pfitzingen
Fides-Gertrude, married Hermann III, Count Palatine of the Rhine
Richildis, married Hugh I, Count of Roucy

Second marriage
Following Frederick's death in 1105, Agnes married Leopold III (1073–1136), the Margrave of Austria (1095–1136). According to a legend, a veil lost by Agnes and found by Leopold years later while hunting was the instigation for him to found the Klosterneuburg Monastery.Their children were:
Adalbert
Leopold IV
Henry II of Austria
Berta, married Heinrich of Regensburg
Agnes, "one of the most famous beauties of her time", married Wladyslaw II of Poland
Ernst
Uta, wife of Liutpold von Plain
Otto of Freising, bishop and biographer
Conrad, Bishop of Passau, and Archbishop of Salzburg
Elisabeth, married Hermann, Count of Winzenburg
Judith, m. c. 1133 William V of Montferrat. Their children formed an important Crusading dynasty.
Gertrude, married Vladislav II of BohemiaAccording to the Continuation of the Chronicles of Klosterneuburg, there may have been up to seven other children (possibly from multiple births) stillborn or who died in infancy.
In 2013, documentation regarding the results of DNA testing of the remains of the family buried in Klosterneuburg Abbey strongly favor that Adalbert was the son of Leopold and Agnes.In 1125, Agnes' brother, Henry V, Holy Roman Emperor, died childless, leaving Agnes and her children as heirs to the Salian dynasty's immense allodial estates, including Waiblingen.
In 1127, Agnes' second son, Konrad III, was elected as the rival King of Germany by those opposed to the Saxon party's Lothar III. When Lothar died in 1137, Konrad was elected to the position.