Passage 1:
Randi Monsen
Randi Monsen (18 February 1910 – 24 August 1997) was a Norwegian illustrator. She was born in Hamar; the daughter of politician Fredrik Monsen and a sister of Per Monsen. She worked for the newspaper Arbeiderbladet from 1935 to 1980. She has illustrated several books, and is represented at the National Gallery of Norway.
Passage 2:
Place of birth
The place of birth (POB) or birthplace is the place where a person was born. This place is often used in legal documents, together with name and date of birth, to uniquely identify a person. Practice regarding whether this place should be a country, a territory or a city/town/locality differs in different countries, but often city or territory is used for native-born citizen passports and countries for foreign-born ones.
As a general rule with respect to passports, if the place of birth is to be a country, it's determined to be the country that currently has sovereignty over the actual place of birth, regardless of when the birth actually occurred. The place of birth is not necessarily the place where the parents of the new baby live. If the baby is born in a hospital in another place, that place is the place of birth. In many countries, this also means that the government requires that the birth of the new baby is registered in the place of birth.
Some countries place less or no importance on the place of birth, instead using alternative geographical characteristics for the purpose of identity documents. For example, Sweden has used the concept of födelsehemort ("domicile of birth") since 1947. This means that the domicile of the baby's mother is the registered place of birth. The location of the maternity ward or other physical birthplace is considered unimportant.
Similarly, Switzerland uses the concept of place of origin. A child born to Swiss parents is automatically assigned the place of origin of the parent with the same last name, so the child either gets their mother's or father's place of origin. A child born to one Swiss parent and one foreign parent acquires the place of origin of their Swiss parent. In a Swiss passport and identity card, the holder's place of origin is stated, not their place of birth. In Japan, the registered domicile is a similar concept.
In some countries (primarily in the Americas), the place of birth automatically determines the nationality of the baby, a practice often referred to by the Latin phrase jus soli. Almost all countries outside the Americas instead attribute nationality based on the nationality(-ies) of the baby's parents (referred to as jus sanguinis).
There can be some confusion regarding the place of birth if the birth takes place in an unusual way: when babies are born on an airplane or at sea, difficulties can arise. The place of birth of such a person depends on the law of the countries involved, which include the nationality of the plane or ship, the nationality(-ies) of the parents and/or the location of the plane or ship (if the birth occurs in the territorial waters or airspace of a country).
Some administrative forms may request the applicant's "country of birth". It is important to determine from the requester whether the information requested refers to the applicant's "place of birth" or "nationality at birth". For example, US citizens born abroad who acquire US citizenship at the time of birth, the nationality at birth will be USA (American), while the place of birth would be the country in which the actual birth takes place.

Reference list
8 FAM 403.4 Place of Birth
Passage 3:
Dance of Death (disambiguation)
Dance of Death, also called Danse Macabre, is a late-medieval allegory of the universality of death.
Dance of Death or The Dance of Death may also refer to:

Books
Dance of Death, a 1938 novel by Helen McCloy
Dance of Death (Stine novel), a 1997 novel by R. L. Stine
Dance of Death (novel), a 2005 novel by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child

Theatre and film
The Dance of Death (Strindberg play), a 1900 play by August Strindberg
The Dance of Death, a 1908 play by Frank Wedekind
The Dance of Death (Auden play), a 1933 play by W. H. Auden

Film
The Death Dance, a 1918 drama starring Alice Brady
The Dance of Death (1912 film), a German silent film
The Dance of Death (1919 film), an Austrian silent film
The Dance of Death (1938 film), crime drama starring Vesta Victoria; screenplay by Ralph Dawson
The Dance of Death (1948 film), French-Italian drama based on Strindberg's play, starring Erich von Stroheim
The Dance of Death (1967 film), a West German drama film
Dance of Death or House of Evil, 1968 Mexican horror film starring Boris Karloff
Dance of Death (1969 film), a film based on Strindberg's play, starring Laurence Olivier
Dance of Death (1979 film), a Hong Kong film featuring Paul Chun

Music
Dance of Death (album), a 2003 album by Iron Maiden, or the title song
The Dance of Death & Other Plantation Favorites, a 1964 album by John Fahey
The Dance of Death (Scaramanga Six album)
"Death Dance", a 2016 song by Sevendust

See also
Dance of the Dead (disambiguation)
Danse Macabre (disambiguation)
Bon Odori, a Japanese traditional dance welcoming the spirits of the dead
La danse des morts, an oratorio by Arthur Honegger
Totentanz (disambiguation)
Passage 4:
Beaulieu-sur-Loire
Beaulieu-sur-Loire (French pronunciation: ​[boljø syʁ lwaʁ], literally Beaulieu on Loire) is a commune in the Loiret department in north-central France. It is the place of death of Jacques MacDonald, a French general who served in the Napoleonic Wars.

Population
See also
Communes of the Loiret department
Passage 5:
Valley of Death
Valley of Death may refer to:

Places
Valley of Death (Bydgoszcz), the site of a 1939 Nazi mass murder and mass grave site in northern Poland
Valley of Death (Crimea), the site of the Charge of the Light Brigade in the 1854 Battle of Balaclava
Valley of Death (Gettysburg), the 1863 Gettysburg Battlefield landform of Plum Run
Valley of Death (Dukla Pass), the site of a tank battle during the Battle of the Dukla Pass in 1944 (World War II)
The Valley of Death, an area of poisonous volcanic gas near the Kikhpinych volcano in Russia
The Valley of Death, an area of poisonous volcanic gas near the Tangkuban Perahu volcano in Indonesia
Valley of Death, a nickname for the highly polluted city of Cubatão, Brazil

Other uses
The Valley of Death (audio drama), a Doctor Who audio play
The Valley of Death (film), a 1968 western film
"Valley of Death", the flawed NewsStand: CNN & Time debut program that caused the Operation Tailwind controversy
A literary element of "The Charge of the Light Brigade" by Alfred, Lord Tennyson
A reference to the difficulty of covering negative cash flow in the early stages of a start-up company; see Venture capital
"The Valley of Death", a song by the Swedish heavy metal band Sabaton from the 2022 album The War to End All Wars

See also
All pages with titles containing Valley of Death
Death Valley (disambiguation)
Valley of the Shadow of Death (disambiguation)
Passage 6:
Where Was I
"Where Was I?" may refer to:

Books
"Where Was I?", essay by David Hawley Sanford from The Mind's I
Where Was I?, book by John Haycraft 2006
Where was I?!, book by Terry Wogan 2009

Film and TV
Where Was I? (film), 1925 film directed by William A. Seiter. With Reginald Denny, Marian Nixon, Pauline Garon, Lee Moran.
Where Was I? (2001 film), biography about songwriter Tim Rose
Where Was I? (TV series) 1952–1953 Quiz show with the panelists attempting to guess a location by looking at photos
"Where Was I?" episode of Shoestring (TV series) 1980

Music
"Where was I", song by W. Franke Harling and Al Dubin performed by Ruby Newman and His Orchestra  with vocal chorus by  Larry Taylor and Peggy McCall  1939
"Where Was I", single from Charley Pride discography 1988
"Where Was I" (song), a 1994 song by Ricky Van Shelton
"Where Was I (Donde Estuve Yo)", song by Joe Pass from Simplicity (Joe Pass album)
"Where Was I?", song by Guttermouth from The Album Formerly Known as a Full Length LP (Guttermouth album)
"Where Was I", song by Sawyer Brown (Billy Maddox, Paul Thorn, Anne Graham) from Can You Hear Me Now 2002
"Where Was I?", song  by  Kenny Wayne Shepherd from Live On  1999
"Where Was I", song by Melanie Laine (Victoria Banks, Steve Fox) from Time Flies (Melanie Laine album)
"Where Was I", song by Rosie Thomas from With Love (Rosie Thomas album)
Passage 7:
Motherland (disambiguation)
Motherland is the place of one's birth, the place of one's ancestors, or the place of origin of an ethnic group.
Motherland may also refer to:

Music
"Motherland" (anthem), the national anthem of Mauritius
National Song (Montserrat), also called "Motherland"
Motherland (Natalie Merchant album), 2001
Motherland (Arsonists Get All the Girls album), 2011
Motherland (Daedalus album), 2011
"Motherland" (Crystal Kay song), 2004

Film and television
Motherland (1927 film), a 1927 British silent war film
Motherland (2010 film), a 2010 documentary film
Motherland (2015 film), a 2015 Turkish drama
Motherland (2022 film), a 2022 documentary film about the Second Nagorno-Karabakh War
Motherland (TV series), a 2016 British television series
Motherland: Fort Salem, a 2020 American science fiction drama series

Other uses
Motherland Party (disambiguation), the name of several political groups
Personifications of Russia, including a list of monuments called Motherland

See also
All pages with titles containing Motherland
Mother Country (disambiguation)
Passage 8:
Place of origin
In Switzerland, the place of origin (German: Heimatort or Bürgerort, literally "home place" or "citizen place"; French: Lieu d'origine; Italian: Luogo di attinenza) denotes where a Swiss citizen has their municipal citizenship, usually inherited from previous generations. It is not to be confused with the place of birth or  place of residence, although two or all three of these locations may be identical depending on the person's circumstances.

Acquisition of municipal citizenship
Swiss citizenship has three tiers. For a person applying to naturalise as a Swiss citizen, these tiers are as follows:

Municipal citizenship, granted by the place of residence after fulfilling several preconditions, such as sufficient knowledge of the local language, integration into local society, and a minimum number of years lived in said municipality.
Cantonal (state) citizenship, for which a Swiss municipal citizenship is required. This requires a certain number of years lived in said canton.
Country citizenship, for which both of the above are required, also requires a certain number of years lived in Switzerland (except for people married to a Swiss citizen, who may obtain simplified naturalisation without having to reside in Switzerland), and involves a criminal background check.The last two kinds of citizenship are a mere formality, while municipal citizenship is the most significant step in becoming a Swiss citizen. 
Nowadays the place of residence determines the municipality where citizenship is acquired, for a new applicant, whereas previously there was a historical reason for preserving the municipal citizenship from earlier generations in the family line, namely to specify which municipality held the responsibility of providing social welfare. The law has now been changed, eliminating this form of allocating responsibility to a municipality other than that of the place of residence. Care needs to be taken when translating the term in Swiss documents which list the historical "Heimatort" instead of the usual place of birth and place of residence.
However, any Swiss citizen can apply for a second, a third or even more municipal citizenships for prestige reasons or to show their connection to the place they currently live – and thus have several places of origin. As the legal significance of the place of origin has waned (see below), Swiss citizens can often apply for municipal citizenship for no more than 100 Swiss francs after having lived in the same municipality for one or two years. In the past, it was common to have to pay between 2,000 and 4,000 Swiss francs as a citizenship fee, because of the financial obligations incumbent on the municipality to grant the citizenship.
A child born to two Swiss parents is automatically granted the citizenship of the parent whose last name they hold, so the child gets either the mother's or the father's place of origin. A child born to one Swiss parent and one foreign parent acquires the citizenship, and thus the place of origin, of the Swiss parent.

International confusion
Almost uniquely in the world (with the exception of Japan, which lists one's Registered Domicile; and Sweden, which lists the mother's place of domicile as place of birth), the Swiss identity card, passport and driving licence do not show the holder's birthplace, but only their place of origin. The vast majority of countries show the holder's actual birthplace on identity documents. This can lead to administrative issues for Swiss citizens abroad when asked to demonstrate their actual place of birth, as no such information exists on any official Swiss identification documents. Only a minority of Swiss citizens have a place of origin identical to their birthplace. More confusion comes into play through the fact that people can have more than one place of origin.

Significance and history
A citizen of a municipality does not enjoy a larger set of rights than a non-citizen of the same municipality. To vote in communal, cantonal or national matters, only the current place of residence matters – or in the case of citizens abroad, the last Swiss place of residence.
The law previously required that a citizen's place of origin continued to bear all their social welfare costs for two years after the citizen moved away. In 2012, the National Council voted by 151 to 9 votes to abolish this law. The place of domicile is now the sole payer of welfare costs.In 1923, 1937, 1959 and 1967, more cantons signed treaties that assured that the place of domicile had to pay welfare costs instead of the place of origin, reflecting the fact that fewer and fewer people lived in their place of origin (1860: 59%, in 1910: 34%).In 1681, the Tagsatzung – the then Swiss parliament – decided that beggars should be deported to their place of origin, especially if they were insufficiently cared for by their residential community.In the 19th century, Swiss municipalities even offered free emigration to the United States if the Swiss citizen agreed to renounce municipal citizenship, and with that the right to receive welfare.

See also
Ancestral home (Chinese)
Bon-gwan
Registered domicile


== Notes and references ==
Passage 9:
Fredrik Monsen
Christian Fredrik Monsen (27 April 1878 – 31 January 1954) was a Norwegian politician for the Labour Party and the Communist Party.

History
He was born in Kristiania as a son of Ludvig Monsen (1854–1942) and Josefine Aurora Marcelie Dehn (1852–1942).Monsen edited the newspaper Demokraten from 1913 to 1916 and was a member of Hamar city council from 1907 to 1945, serving as mayor in 1916–1919. He was elected to the Parliament of Norway from the Market towns of Hedmark and Oppland counties in 1922, and was re-elected on six occasions. He represented the Labour Party, except for the term 1925–1927 when he represented the Communist Party. During his last term, from December 10, 1945 to January 10, 1949, he was the President of the Storting. Already before the 1945 election, when the old Parliament was convened, Monsen was installed in the Presidium as the Labour Party dropped their former member of the presidium Magnus Nilssen.Monsen headed the Ministry of Defence during the short-lived Hornsrud's Cabinet in 1928 and then during Nygaardsvold's Cabinet. Unusually for a Minister of Defence, Monsen was an antimilitarist and wrote three anti-militarist pamphlets (Sannheten om militærvesenet, Avvæbning eller militarisme and Militært vanvidd eller civil fornuft).
Passage 10:
Sennedjem
Sennedjem was an Ancient Egyptian artisan who was active during the reigns of Seti I and Ramesses II. He lived in Set Maat (translated as "The Place of Truth"), contemporary Deir el-Medina, on the west bank of the Nile, opposite Thebes. Sennedjem had the title "Servant in the Place of Truth". He was buried along with his wife, Iyneferti, and members of his family in a tomb in the village necropolis. His tomb was discovered January 31, 1886. When Sennedjem's tomb was found, it contained furniture from his home, including a stool and a bed, which he used when he was alive.His titles included Servant in the Place of Truth, meaning that he worked on the excavation and decoration of the nearby royal tombs.

See also

TT1 – (Tomb of Sennedjem, family and wife)