Passage 1:
Thulasi (1987 film)
Thulasi is a 1987 Indian Tamil-language romantic drama film directed by Ameerjan. The film stars Murali and Seetha. It was released on 27 November 1987.

Plot
Thirunavukarasu is considered as a God by his villagers. Nevertheless, his son Sammadham is an atheist and he doesn't believe in his father's power. Sammadham and Ponni, a low caste girl, fall in love with each other. Sammadham's best friend Siva, a low caste boy, passes the Master of Arts degree successfully. Thirunavukarasu's daughter Thulasi then develops a soft corner for Siva.
Thirunavukarasu cannot accept for his son Sammadham's marriage with Ponni due to caste difference. Sammadham then challenges him to marry her. Thirunavukarasu appoints henchmen to kill her and Ponni is found dead the next day in the water. In the meantime, Siva also falls in love with Thulasi. The rest of the story is what happens to Siva and Thulasi.

Cast
Murali as Sivalingam "Siva"
Seetha as Thulasi
Chandrasekhar as Sammadham
Major Sundarrajan as Thirunavukarasu
Senthil
Charle as Khan
Thara as Ponni
Mohanapriya as Sarasu
Vathiyar Raman
A. K. Veerasamy as Kaliyappan

Soundtrack
The music was composed by Sampath Selvam, with lyrics written by Vairamuthu.

Reception
The Indian Express gave a negative review calling it "thwarted love".
Passage 2:
Querelle
Querelle is a 1982 West German-French English-language arthouse film directed by Rainer Werner Fassbinder and starring Brad Davis, adapted from French author Jean Genet's 1947 novel Querelle of Brest. It was Fassbinder's last film, released shortly after his death at the age of 37.

Plot
The plot centers on the handsome Belgian sailor Georges Querelle, who is also a thief and murderer. When his ship, Le Vengeur, arrives in Brest, he visits the Feria, a bar and brothel for sailors run by the Madame Lysiane, whose lover, Robert, is Querelle's brother. Querelle has a love/hate relationship with his brother: when they meet at La Feria, they embrace, but also punch one another slowly and repeatedly in the belly. Lysiane's husband Nono works behind the bar and also manages La Feria's underhanded affairs with the assistance of his friend, the corrupt police captain Mario.
Querelle makes a deal to sell opium to Nono. During the execution of the deal, he murders his accomplice Vic by slitting his throat.  After delivering the drugs, Querelle announces that he wants to sleep with Lysiane.  He knows that this means he will have to throw dice with Nono, who has the privilege of playing a game of chance with all of her prospective lovers. If Nono loses, the suitor is allowed to proceed with his affair. If the suitor loses, however, he must submit to anal sex with Nono first, according to Nono's maxim that "That way, I can say my wife only sleeps with arseholes." Querelle deliberately loses the game, allowing himself to be sodomized by Nono. When Nono gloats about Querelle's "loss" to Robert, who won his dice game, the brothers end up in a violent fight.  Later, Querelle becomes Lysiane's lover, and also has sex with Mario.
Luckily for Querelle, a builder, Gil, murders his work mate Theo, who had been harassing and sexually assaulting him.  Gil hides from the police in an abandoned prison, and Roger, who is in love with Gil, establishes contact between Querelle and Gil in the hopes that Querelle can help Gil flee. Querelle falls in love with Gil, who closely resembles his brother.  Gil returns his affections, but Querelle betrays Gil by tipping off the police. Querelle cleverly arranged it so that the murder of Vic is also blamed on Gil.
Querelle's superior, Lieutenant Seblon, is in love with Querelle, and constantly tries to prove his manliness to him. Seblon is aware that Querelle murdered Vic, but chooses to protect him.  Later, Seblon reveals his love and concern to a drunken Querelle, and they kiss and embrace before returning to Le Vengeur.

Cast
Brad Davis as Querelle
Franco Nero as Lieutenant Seblon
Jeanne Moreau as Lysiane
Laurent Malet as Roger Bataille
Hanno Pöschl as Robert / Gil
Günther Kaufmann as Nono
Burkhard Driest as Mario
Roger Fritz as Marcellin
Dieter Schidor as Vic Rivette
Natja Brunckhorst as Paulette
Werner Asam as Worker
Axel Bauer as Worker
Neil Bell as Theo
Robert van Ackeren as Drunken legionnaire
Wolf Gremm as Drunken legionnaire
Frank Ripploh as Drunken legionnaire

Production
According to Genet's biographer Edmund White, Querelle was originally going to be made by Werner Schroeter, with a scenario by Burkhard Driest, and produced by Dieter Schidor. However, Schidor could not find the money to finance a film by Schroeter, and therefore turned to other directors, including John Schlesinger and Sam Peckinpah, before finally settling on Fassbinder. Driest wrote a radically different script for Fassbinder, who then "took the linear narrative and jumbled it up". White quotes Schidor as saying "Fassbinder did something totally different, he took the words of Genet and tried to meditate on something other than the story. The story became totally unimportant for him. He also said publicly that the story was a sort of third-rate police story that wouldn't be worth making a movie about without putting a particular moral impact into it".Schroeter had wanted to make a black and white film with amateur actors and location shots, but Fassbinder instead shot it with professional actors in a lurid, expressionist color, and on sets in the studio. Edmund White comments that the result is a film in which, "Everything is bathed in an artificial light and the architectural elements are all symbolic."

Soundtrack
Jeanne Moreau – "Each Man Kills the Things He Loves" (music by Peer Raben, lyrics from Oscar Wilde's poem "The Ballad of Reading Gaol")
"Young and Joyful Bandit" (Music by Peer Raben, lyrics by Jeanne Moreau)Both songs were nominated to the 1984 Razzie Awards for "Worst Original Song".

Release
Querelle sold more than 100,000 tickets in the first three weeks after its release in Paris, the first time that a film with a gay theme had achieved such success. On review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, which categorizes reviews as positive or negative only, the film has an approval rating of 57% calculated based on 14 critics comments. By comparison, with the same opinions being calculated using a weighted arithmetic mean, the rating is 6.10/10. Writing for The New York Times critic Vincent Canby noted that Querelle was "a mess...a detour that leads to a dead end."
Penny Ashbrook calls Querelle Fassbinder's "perfect epitaph: an intensely personal statement that is the most uncompromising portrayal of gay male sensibility to come from a major filmmaker." Edmund White considers Querelle the only film based on Genet's book that works, calling it "visually as artificial and menacing as Genet's prose." Genet, in discussion with Schidor, said that he had not seen the film, commenting "You can't smoke at the movies."
Passage 3:
Daughter of the Jungle
Daughter of the Jungle may refer to:

Daughter of the Jungle (1949 film), an American adventure film
Daughter of the Jungle (1982 film), an Italian romantic adventure film
Passage 4:
Bomba, the Jungle Boy (film)
Bomba, the Jungle Boy is a 1949 American adventure film directed by Ford Beebe. It was the first in a 12-film series featuring Bomba, a sort of teenage Tarzan, played by Johnny Sheffield, who as a child had played "Boy" in several previous Tarzan films.

Plot
A photographer and his daughter arrive in Africa hoping to capture the local wildlife on film. Instead, they encounter (and never end up photographing) a killer leopard, a swarm of locusts, deadly lion worshippers, and Bomba the Jungle Boy.
Bomba was raised by an aged naturalist, Cody Casson (since deceased). He now lives beyond the Great Rift. The photographer's daughter, wearing a well-tailored leopard skin, spends most of the film with Bomba, while her father, Commissioner Barnes, and Eli search for her.

Cast
Johnny Sheffield as Bomba
Peggy Ann Garner as Patricia Harlan
Onslow Stevens as George Harland
Charles Irwin as Andy Barnes
Smoki Whitfield as Eli
Martin Wilkins as Mufti

Production
Walter Mirisch had been general manager of Monogram Pictures since 1945. They specialised in low-budget movies, including series of regular characters such as Charlie Chan, Joe Palooka and the Bowery Boys. Mirisch looked at the success of the Tarzan films and remembered the Bomba novels; he thought they might offer material to do a similar type of movie.
In November 1947 Monogram announced they had bought the rights to twenty of the stories. They assigned Walter Mirisch to oversee their production and said they intended to make three Bomba films per year. They were going to be in colour. They were seeking a male actor aged 18 to 20 to star.In September 1948 Monogram's president Steve Broidy announced that the studio would make two Bomba films over the following year. (Other series at the studio included Joe Palooka, Charlie Chan and Bowery Boys.)Mirisch later claimed he was paid $2,500 a film, and the success of the series launched him as a producer.

Reception
The New York Times called it a "dull flavorless picture about a vest pocket Tarzan." However the movie was a large success relative to its budget.
Passage 5:
Le Masque de la Méduse
Le masque de la Méduse (English: The Mask of Medusa) is a 2009 fantasy horror film directed by Jean Rollin. The film is a modern-day telling of the Greek mythological tale of the Gorgon and was inspired by the 1964 classic Hammer Horror film of the same name and the 1981 cult classic Clash of the Titans. It was Rollin's final film, as the director died in 2010.

Cast
Simone Rollin as la Méduse
Sabine Lenoël as Euryale
Marlène Delcambre as Sthéno
Juliette Moreau as Juliette
Delphine Montoban as Cornelius
Jean-Pierre Bouyxou as le gardien
Bernard Charnacé as le collectionneur
Agnès Pierron as la colleuse d'affiche au Grand-Guignol
Gabrielle Rollin as la petite contrebassiste
Jean Rollin as l'homme qui enterre la tête
Thomas Smith as Thomas

Production
It was thought that Rollin's 2007 film La nuit des horloges was the final film of his career, as he had mentioned in the past. However, in 2009, Rollin began preparation foe Le masque de la Méduse. Rollin originally directed the film as a one-hour short, which was screened at the Cinémathèque de Toulouse, but after the release, Rollin decided to add 20 minutes of additional scenes and then cut the film into two distinct parts, as he did with his first feature, Le Viol du Vampire.  The film was shot on location at the Golden Gate Aquarium and Père Lachaise Cemetery, as well as on stage at the Theatre du Grande Guignol, which is where the longest part of the film takes place. It was shot on HD video on a low budget of €150,000. Before the release, it was transferred to 35mm film.

Release
The film was not released theatrically, although it premiered on 19 November 2009 at the 11th edition of the Extreme Cinema Film Festival at the Cinémathèque de Toulouse. As part of "An Evening with Jean Rollin", it was shown as a double feature with Rollin's 2007 film La nuit des horloges.

Home media
No official DVD was released, although for a limited time, a DVD of La masque de la Méduse was included with the first 150 copies of Rollin's book Jean Rollin: Écrits complets Volume 1.
Passage 6:
Sergio Bergonzelli
Sergio Bergonzelli (25 August 1924 – 24 September 2002) was an Italian director, screenwriter, producer and actor.

Life and career
Born in Alba, Cuneo, Bergonzelli graduated in Philosophy, then he started working as an actor with the stage name Siro Carme. After being assistant and second unit director in a number of genre films, in 1960 he made his debut as director and screenwriter with Seven in the Sun. Also a film producer, Bergonzelli was the first to produce Spaghetti Western films entirely shot in Italy. In the 1970s he specialized in the erotic genre.

Selected filmography
Director
'*' denotes he wrote the screenplayActor
Passage 7:
Law of the Jungle (film)
Law of the Jungle is a 1942 American adventure film directed by Jean Yarbrough.

Plot
A singer, Nona Brooks, is stranded at a hotel in Africa because her passport is missing. It turns out enemy agents, in collaboration with hotel owner Simmons, have stolen her papers, then try to use her for their nefarious schemes.
Brooks flees and encounters paleontologist Larry Mason in the jungle. He and his assistant Jefferson Jones give her shelter, then fend off unfriendly natives while Simmons is murdered by the villainous agents. All looks hopeless until the tribal chief turns out to be a reasonable, Oxford-educated man who helps Larry and Nona out of their jam.

Cast
Arline Judge as Nona Brooks
John 'Dusty' King as Larry Mason
Mantan Moreland as Jefferson 'Jeff' Jones
Arthur O'Connell as Simmons
C. Montague Shaw as Sgt. Burke
Guy Kingsford as Constable Whiteside
Laurence Criner as Chief Mojobo - an Oxford Graduate
Victor Kendall as Grozman
Feodor Chaliapin, Jr. as Belts
Martin Wilkins as Bongo

Soundtrack
Arline Judge - "Jungle Moon" (Written by Edward J. Kay as Edward Kay)

External links
Law of the Jungle at IMDb
Law of the Jungle is available for free viewing and download at the Internet Archive
Passage 8:
Bomba and the Jungle Girl
Bomba and the Jungle Girl is a 1952 American adventure film directed by Ford Beebe and starring Johnny Sheffield. It is the eighth film (of 12) in the Bomba, the Jungle Boy film series.

Plot
Bomba decides to find out who his parents were. He starts with Cody Casson's diary and follows the trail to a native village. An ancient blind woman tells him his parents, along the village's true ruler, were murdered by the current chieftain and his daughter. With the aid of an inspector and his daughter, Bomba battles the usurpers in the cave where his parents were buried.

Cast
Johnny Sheffield as Bomba
Karen Sharpe as Linda Ward
Walter Sande as Mr. Ward
Suzette Harbin as Boru
Martin Wilkins as Chief Gamboso
Morris Buchanan as Kokoli
Leonard Mudie as Commissioner Barnes
Don Blackman as Boru's lieutenant
Passage 9:
George Blair (director)
George Blair  (December 6, 1905 – April 19, 1970) was an American film director who worked generally on supporting features including many B-Westerns. Two of his earliest films were British-set thriller films starring C. Aubrey Smith, made for Republic Pictures.

Selected filmography
Director

Secrets of Scotland Yard (1944)
A Sporting Chance (1945)
Scotland Yard Investigator (1945)
Gangs of the Waterfront (1945)
Affairs of Geraldine (1946)
That's My Gal (1947)
The Trespasser (1947)
Exposed (1947)
Madonna of the Desert (1948)
Lightnin' in the Forest (1948)
King of the Gamblers (1948)
Daredevils of the Clouds (1948)
Homicide for Three (1948)
Rose of the Yukon (1949)
Duke of Chicago (1949)
Streets of San Francisco (1949)
Under Mexicali Stars (1950)
Silver City Bonanza (1951)
Secrets of Monte Carlo (1951)
Desert Pursuit (1952)
Perils of the Jungle (1953)
Superman in Scotland Yard (1954)
Sabu and the Magic Ring (1957)
The Hypnotic Eye (1960)

TV series
Adventures of Superman (1953-1958, TV series, 27 episodes
Casey Jones (1957-1958, TV series, 23 episodes)
Highway Patrol (1957, TV series, 2 episodes)
Harbor Command (1958, TV series, 1 episode)
Tales of the Texas Rangers (1958, TV series, 7 episodes)
Death Valley Days (1959, TV series, 1 episode)
Lassie (1959–1960, TV series, 3 episodes)
Bonanza (1960, TV series, 1 episode)
Wanted: Dead or Alive (1960, TV series, 10 episodes)
Stagecoach West (1961, TV series, 2 episodes)
The Littlest Hobo (1963, TV series, 1 episode)
The Adventures of Superboy (1996, TV series)

TV shorts
Beach Patrol (1959, TV short)
The Adventures of Superboy (1961, TV short)

Bibliography
Richards, Jeffrey. Visions of Yesterday. Routledge, 1973.

External links
George Blair at IMDb
Passage 10:
Seven in the Sun
Seven in the Sun (Italian: Gli avventurieri dei Tropici) is a 1960 Italian adventure film written and directed  by Sergio Bergonzelli and starring Frank Latimore and Gianna Maria Canale.

Plot
Cast
Frank Latimore as Frank
Gianna Maria Canale as Libertà
Saro Urzì as  Fernand
John Kitzmiller as  Salvador
Marisa Belli as Jana
Marco Guglielmi
Eduardo Passarelli