Passage 1:
John Westley
Rev. John Wesley (1636–78) was an English nonconformist minister. He was the grandfather of John Wesley (founder of Methodism).

Life
John Wesly (his own spelling), Westley, or Wesley was probably born at Bridport, Dorset, although some authorities claim he was born in Devon, the son of the Rev. Bartholomew Westley and Ann Colley, daughter of Sir Henry Colley of Carbery Castle in County Kildare, Ireland. He was educated at Dorchester Grammar School and as a student of New Inn Hall, Oxford, where he matriculated on 23 April 1651, and graduated B.A. on 23 January 1655, and M.A. on 4 July 1657. After his appointment as an evangelist, he preached at Melcombe Regis, Radipole, and other areas in Dorset. Never episcopally ordained, he was approved by Oliver Cromwell's Commission of Triers in 1658 and appointed Vicar of Winterborne Whitechurch.The report of his interview in 1661 with Gilbert Ironside the elder, his diocesan, according to Alexander Gordon writing in the Dictionary of National Biography, shows him to have been an Independent. He was imprisoned for not using the Book of Common Prayer, imprisoned again and ejected in 1662. After the Conventicle Act 1664 he continued to preach in small gatherings at Preston and then Poole, until his death at Preston in 1678.

Family
He married a daughter of John White, who was related also to Thomas Fuller. White, the "Patriarch of Dorchester", married a sister of Cornelius Burges. Westley's eldest son was Timothy (born 1659). Their second son was Rev. Samuel Wesley, a High Church Anglican vicar and the father of John and Charles Wesley. A younger son, Matthew Wesley, remained a nonconformist, became a London apothecary, and died on 10 June 1737, leaving a son, Matthew, in India; he provided for some of his brother Samuel's daughters.

Notes
Additional sources
Matthews, A. G., "Calamy Revised", Oxford University Press, 1934, page 521. This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: "Wesley, Samuel (1662-1735)". Dictionary of National Biography. London: Smith, Elder & Co. 1885–1900.
Passage 2:
Guillaume Wittouck
Guillaume Wittouck (1749 - 1829) was a Belgian lawyer and High Magistrate. He was the Grandfather of industrialist Paul Wittouck and of Belgian navigator Guillaume Delcourt.

Biography
Guillaume Wittouck, born in Drogenbos on 30 October 1749 and died in Brussels on 12 June 1829, lawyer at the Brabant Council, became Counselor at the Supreme Court of Brabant in 1791. During the Brabant Revolution, he sided with the Vonckists, who were in favor of new ideas. When Belgium joined France, he became substitute for the commissioner of the Directory at the Civil Court of the Department of the Dyle, then under the consulate, in 1800, judge at the Brussels Court of Appeal, then from 1804 to 1814, under the Empire, counselor at the Court of Appeal of Brussels, then advisor to the Superior Court of Brussels. He married in Brussels (Church of Saint Nicolas) on 29 June 1778, Anne Marie Cools, born in Gooik on 25 January 1754, died in Brussels on 11 April 1824, daughter of Jean Cools and Adrienne Galmaert descendants of the Seven Noble Houses of Brussels.Guillaume Wittouck acquired on 28th Floreal of the year VIII (18 May 1800) the castle of Petit-Bigard in Leeuw-Saint-Pierre with a field of one hundred hectares. Petit-Bigard will remain the home of the elder branch until its sale in 1941.
Passage 3:
Kaya Alp
Kaya Alp (Ottoman Turkish: قایا الپ, lit. 'Brave Rock') was, according to Ottoman tradition, the son of Kızıl Buğa or Basuk and the father of Suleyman Shah. He was the grandfather of Ertuğrul Ghazi, the father of the founder of the Ottoman Empire, Osman I. He was also famously known for being the successing name of Ertokus Bey’s son Kaya Alp. He was a descendant of the ancestor of his tribe, Kayı son of Gun son of Oghuz Khagan, the legendary progenitor of the Oghuz Turks.
Passage 4:
Rathold Rátót
Rathold (I) from the kindred Rátót (Hungarian: Rátót nembeli (I.) Rátót (Ratolt)) was a Hungarian distinguished nobleman from the gens Rátót, who served as ispán (comes) of Somogy County in 1203.He was the eldest son of voivode Leustach Rátót. As his brother, Julius I Rátót had no successors, Rathold was the ancestor of the Gyulafi branch of the Rátót clan.
Passage 5:
Fujiwara no Nagara
This is about the 9th-century Japanese statesman.  For the 10th-century Japanese poet also known as Nagayoshi, see Fujiwara no Nagatō.
Fujiwara no Nagara (藤原長良, 802 – 6 August 856), also known as Fujiwara no Nagayoshi, was a Japanese statesman, courtier and politician of the early Heian period. He was the grandfather of Emperor Yōzei.

Life
Nagara was born as the eldest son of the sadaijin Fujiwara no Fuyutsugu, a powerful figure in the court of Emperor Saga. He was also a descendant of the early Japanese emperors and was well trusted by Emperor Ninmyō since his time as crown prince, and attended on him frequently. However, after Ninmyō took the throne, Nagara's advancement was overtaken by his younger brother Fujiwara no Yoshifusa. He served as director of the kurōdo-dokoro (蔵人所) and division chief (督) in the imperial guard before finally making sangi and joining the kugyō in 844, ten years after his younger brother.
In 850, Nagara's nephew Emperor Montoku took the throne, and Nagara was promoted to shō shi-i no ge (正四位下) and then ju san-mi (従三位), and in 851 to shō san-mi (正三位). In the same year, though, Nagara was overtaken once more as his brother Fujiwara no Yoshimi, more than ten years his junior, was promoted to chūnagon. In 854, when Yoshimi was promoted to dainagon, Nagara was promoted to fill his old position of chūnagon. In 856 he was promoted to 従二位 (ju ni-i), but died shortly thereafter at the age of 55.

Legacy
After Nagara's death, his daughter Takaiko became a court lady of Emperor Seiwa. In 877, after her son Prince Sadaakira took the throne as Emperor Yōzei, Nagara was posthumously promoted to shō ichi-i (正一位) and sadaijin, and again in 879 to daijō-daijin.
Nagara was overtaken in life by his brother Yoshifusa and Yoshimi, but he had more children, and his descendants thrived. His third son Fujiwara no Mototsune was adopted by Yoshifusa, and his line branched into various powerful clans, including the five regent houses.
Before the Middle Ages, there may have been a tendency to view Mototsune's biological father Nagara rather than his adoptive father Yoshifusa as his parent, making Nagara out as the ancestor of the regent family. This may have impacted the Ōkagami, leading it to depict Nagara as the head of the Hokke instead of Yoshifusa.

Personality
Nagara had a noble disposition, both tender-hearted and magnanimous. Despite being overtaken by his brothers, he continued to love them deeply. He was treated his subordinates with tolerance, and was loved by people of all ranks. When Emperor Ninmyō died, Fuyutsugu is said to have mourned him like a parent, even abstaining from food as he prayed for the happiness of the Emperor's spirit.
When he served Emperor Montoku in his youth, the Emperor treated him as an equal, but Nagara did not abandon formal dress or display an overly familiar attitude.

Genealogy
Father: Fujiwara no Fuyutsugu
Mother: Fujiwara no Mitsuko (藤原美都子), daughter of Fujiwara no Matsukuri (藤原真作)
Wife: Nanba no Fuchiko (難波渕子)
Eldest son: Fujiwara no Kunitsune (藤原国経, 828–908)
Second son: Fujiwara no Tōtsune (藤原遠経, 835–888)
Wife: Fujiwara no Otoharu (藤原乙春), daughter of Fujiwara no Fusatsugu (藤原総継)
Third son: Fujiwara no Mototsune (藤原基経, 836–891), adopted by Fujiwara no Yoshifusa
Fourth son: Fujiwara no Takatsune (藤原高経, ?–893)
Fifth son: Fujiwara no Hirotsune (藤原弘経, 838–883)
Sixth son: Fujiwara no Kiyotsune (藤原清経, 846–915)
Daughter: Fujiwara no Takaiko (藤原高子, 842–910), court lady of Emperor Seiwa, mother of Emperor Yōzei
Unknown wife (possibly Nanba no Fuchiko (難波渕子))
Daughter: Fujiwara no Shukushi (藤原淑子, 838–906), wife of Fujiwara no Ujimune, adoptive mother of Emperor Uda, Naishi-no-kami (尚侍)
Daughter: Fujiwara no Ariko (藤原有子, ?–866), wife of Taira no Takamune, Naishi-no-suke (典侍)

Notes
Passage 6:
Prithvipati Shah
Prithvipati Shah (Nepali: पृथ्वीपति शाह) was the king of the Gorkha Kingdom in the South Asian subcontinent, present-day Nepal. He was the grandfather of Nara Bhupal Shah and reigned from 1673–1716.King Prithvipati Shah ascended to the throne after the demise of his father. He was the longest serving king of the Gorkha Kingdom but his reign saw a lot of struggles.
Passage 7:
Baldwin I Rátót
Baldwin (I) from the kindred Rátót (Hungarian: Rátót nembeli (I.) Balduin; died after 1255) was a Hungarian distinguished nobleman from the gens Rátót, who served as master of the cupbearers three times. His father was Rathold Rátót, ispán (comes) of Somogy County in 1203. His older brother was Dominic I Rátót.He served as master of the cupbearers between 1233 and 1234. After that he functioned as ispán of Moson County in 1235. He was appointed master of the cupbearers for the second time in 1235, a position which he held until 1238. He was ispán of Vas County from 1240 to 1244. After that he functioned as ispán of Nyitra County in 1244. He served as master of the cupbearers for the third time between 1247 and 1254, besides that he held the office of ispán of Bánya from 1247 to 1251. He finished his career as ispán of Vas County in 1255.
Passage 8:
Baldwin II Rátót
Baldwin (II) from the kindred Rátót (Hungarian: Rátót nembeli (II.) Balduin; died after 1283) was a Hungarian distinguished nobleman from the gens Rátót as the son of Baldwin I Rátót, who served as ispán (comes) of Zala County from 1275 to 1276 and in 1276.His older brother was Julius II Rátót. Baldwin's only son, Lawrence was the ancestor of the Rátóti and Gyulaffy de Rátót noble families.
Passage 9:
Lyon Cohen
Lyon Cohen (born Yehuda Leib Cohen; May 11, 1868 – August 17, 1937) was a Polish-born Canadian businessman and a philanthropist. He was the grandfather of singer/poet Leonard Cohen.

Biography
Cohen was born in Congress Poland, part of the Russian Empire, to a Jewish family on May 11, 1868. He immigrated to Canada with his parents in 1871. He was educated at the McGill Model School and the Catholic Commercial Academy in Montreal. In 1888, he entered the firm of Lee & Cohen in Montreal; later became partner with his father in the firm of L. Cohen & Son; in 1895, he established W. R. Cuthbert & Co; in 1900, he organized the Canadian Improvement Co., a dredging contractor; in 1906, he founded The Freedman Co. in Montreal; and in May 1919, he organized and became President of Canadian Export Clothiers, Ltd.  The Freedman Company went on to become one of Montreal’s largest clothing companies.In 1897, Cohen and Samuel William Jacobs founded the Canadian Jewish Times, the first English-language Jewish newspaper in Canada. The newspaper promoted the Canadianization of recent East European Jewish immigrants and encouraged their acceptance of Canadian customs as Cohen felt that the old world customs of immigrant Jews were one of the main causes of anti-Semitism. In 1914, the paper was purchased by Hirsch Wolofsky, owner of the Yiddish-language Keneder Adler, who transformed it into the Canadian Jewish Chronicle.He died on August 17, 1937, at the age of 69.

Philanthropy
Cohen was elected the first president of the Canadian Jewish Congress in 1919 and organized the Jewish Immigrant Aid Services of Canada. Cohen was also a leader of the Young Men’s Hebrew Benevolent Society (later the Baron de Hirsch Institute) and the United Talmud Torahs, a Jewish day school in Montreal. He also served as president of Congregation Shaar Hashomayim and president of the Jewish Colonization Association in Canada.

Personal life
Cohen married Rachel Friedman of Montreal on February 17, 1891. She was the founder and President of Jewish Endeavour Sewing School. They had three sons and one daughter:

Nathan Bernard Cohen, who served as a lieutenant in the World War; he married Lithuanian Jewish immigrant Masha Klonitsky and they had one daughter and one son:
Esther Cohen and
singer/poet Leonard Cohen.
Horace Rives Cohen, who was a captain and quartermaster of his battalion in World War I;
Lawrence Zebulun Cohen, student at McGill University, and
Sylvia Lillian Cohen.
Passage 10:
Abd al-Muttalib
Shayba ibn Hāshim (Arabic: شَيْبَة إبْن هَاشِم; c. 497–578), better known as ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib, (Arabic: عَبْد ٱلْمُطَّلِب, lit. 'Servant of Muttalib') was the fourth chief of the Quraysh tribal confederation. He was the grandfather of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.

Early life
His father was Hashim ibn 'Abd Manaf,: 81  the progenitor of the distinguished Banu Hashim, a clan of the Quraysh tribe of Mecca. They claimed descent from Ismā'īl and Ibrāhīm. His mother was Salma bint Amr, from the Banu Najjar, a clan of the Khazraj tribe in Yathrib (later called Madinah). Hashim died while doing business in Gaza, before Abd al-Muttalib was born.: 81 His real name was "Shaiba" meaning 'the ancient one' or 'white-haired' because of the streak of white through his jet-black hair, and is sometimes also called Shaybah al-Ḥamd ("The white streak of praise").: 81–82  After his father's death he was raised in Yathrib with his mother and her family until about the age of eight, when his uncle Muttalib ibn Abd Manaf went to see him and asked his mother Salmah to entrust Shaybah to his care. Salmah was unwilling to let her son go and Shaiba refused to leave his mother without her consent. Muṭṭalib then pointed out that the possibilities Yathrib had to offer were incomparable to Mecca. Salmah was impressed with his arguments, so she agreed to let him go. Upon first arriving in Mecca, the people assumed the unknown child was Muttalib's servant and started calling him 'Abd al-Muttalib ("servant of Muttalib").: 85–86

Chieftain of Hashim clan
When Muṭṭalib died, Shaiba succeeded him as the chief of the Hāshim clan. Following his uncle Al-Muṭṭalib, he took over the duties of providing the pilgrims with food and water, and carried on the practices of his forefathers with his people. He attained such eminence as none of his forefathers enjoyed; his people loved him and his reputation was great among them.: 61 
'Umar ibn Al-Khaṭṭāb's grandfather Nufayl ibn Abdul Uzza arbitrated in a dispute between 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib and Ḥarb ibn Umayyah, Abu Sufyan's father, over the custodianship of the Kaaba. Nufayl gave his verdict in favour of 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib. Addressing Ḥarb ibn Umayyah, he said:
Why do you pick a quarrel with a person who is taller than you in stature; more imposing than you in appearance; more refined than you in intellect; whose progeny outnumbers yours and whose generosity outshines yours in lustre? Do not, however, construe this into any disparagement of your good qualities which I highly appreciate. You are as gentle as a lamb, you are renowned throughout Arabia for the stentorian tones of your voice, and you are an asset to your tribe.

Discovery of Zam Zam Well
'Abdul-Muṭṭalib said that while sleeping in the sacred enclosure, he had dreamed he was ordered to dig at the worship place of the Quraysh between the two deities Isāf and Nā'ila. There he would find the Zamzam Well, which the Jurhum tribe had filled in when they left Mecca. The Quraysh tried to stop him digging in that spot, but his son Al-Ḥārith stood guard until they gave up their protests. After three days of digging, 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib found traces of an ancient religious well and exclaimed, "Allahuakbar!" Some of the Quraysh disputed his claim to sole rights over water, then one of them suggested that they go to a female shaman who lived afar. It was said that she could summon jinns and that she could help them decide who was the owner of the well. So, 11 people from the 11 tribes went on the expedition. They had to cross the desert to meet the priestess but then they got lost. There was a lack of food and water and people started to lose hope of ever getting out. One of them suggested that they dig their own graves and if they died, the last person standing would bury the others. So all began digging their own graves and just as Abdul-Muṭṭalib started digging, water spewed out from the hole he dug and everyone became overjoyed. It was then and there decided that Abdul-Muttalib was the owner of the Zam Zam well. Thereafter he supplied pilgrims to the Kaaba with Zam Zam water, which soon eclipsed all the other wells in Mecca because it was considered sacred.: 86–89 : 62–65

The Year of the Elephant
According to Muslim tradition, the Ethiopian governor of Yemen, Abrahah al-Ashram, envied the Kaaba's reverence among the Arabs and, being a Christian, he built a cathedral on Sana'a and ordered pilgrimage be made there.: 21  The order was ignored and someone desecrated (some saying in the form of defecation: 696 note 35 ) the cathedral. Abrahah decided to avenge this act by demolishing the Kaaba and he advanced with an army towards Mecca.: 22–23 There were thirteen elephants in Abrahah's army: 99 : 26  and the year came to be known as 'Ām al-Fīl (the Year of the Elephant), beginning a trend for reckoning the years in Arabia which was used until 'Umar ibn Al-Khaṭṭāb replaced it with the Islamic Calendar in 638 CE (17 AH), with the first year of the Islamic Calendar being 622 CE.
When news of the advance of Abrahah's army came, the Arab tribes of Quraysh, Kinānah, Khuzā'ah and Hudhayl united in defence of the Kaaba. A man from the Ḥimyar tribe was sent by Abrahah to advise them that he only wished to demolish the Kaaba and if they resisted, they would be crushed. "Abdul-Muṭṭalib told the Meccans to seek refuge in the nearest high hills while he, with some leading members of Quraysh, remained within the precincts of the Kaaba. Abrahah sent a dispatch inviting 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib to meet him and discuss matters. When 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib left the meeting he was heard saying, "The Owner of this House is its Defender, and I am sure He will save it from the attack of the adversaries and will not dishonour the servants of His House.": 24–26 It is recorded that when Abrahah's forces neared the Kaaba, Allah commanded small birds (abābīl) to destroy Abrahah's army, raining down pebbles on it from their beaks. Abrahah was seriously wounded and retreated towards Yemen but died on the way.: 26–27  This event is referred to in the following Qur'anic chapter:

Have you not seen how your Lord dealt with the owners of the Elephant?
Did He not make their treacherous plan go astray?

And He sent against them birds in flocks, striking them with stones of baked clay, so He rendered them like straw eaten up.
Most Islamic sources place the event around the year that Muhammad was born, 570 CE, though other scholars place it one or two decades earlier. A tradition attributed to Ibn Shihab al-Zuhri in the musannaf of ʽAbd al-Razzaq al-Sanʽani places it before the birth of Muhammad's father.

Sacrificing his son Abdullah
Al-Harith was 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib's only son at the time he dug the Zamzam Well.: 64  When the Quraysh tried to help him in the digging, he vowed that if he were to have ten sons to protect him, he would sacrifice one of them to Allah at the Kaaba. Later, after nine more sons had been born to him, he told them he must keep the vow. The divination arrows fell upon his favourite son Abdullah. The Quraysh protested 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib's intention to sacrifice his son and demanded that he sacrifice something else instead. 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib agreed to consult a "sorceress with a familiar spirit". She told him to cast lots between Abdullah and ten camels. If Abdullah were chosen, he had to add ten more camels, and keep on doing the same until his Lord accepted the camels in Abdullah's place. When the number of camels reached 100, the lot fell on the camels. 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib confirmed this by repeating the test three times. Then the camels were sacrificed, and Abdullah was spared.: 66–68

Family
Wives
Abd al-Muttalib had six known wives.

Sumra bint Jundab of the Hawazin tribe.
Lubnā bint Hājar of the Khuza'a tribe.
Fatima bint Amr of the Makhzum clan of the Quraysh tribe.
Halah bint Wuhayb of the Zuhrah clan of the Quraysh tribe.
Natīla bint Janab of the Namir tribe.
Mumanna'a bint Amr of the Khuza'a tribe.

Children
According to Ibn Hisham, ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib had ten sons and six daughters.: 707–708 note 97  However, Ibn Sa'd lists twelve sons.: 99–101 By Sumra bint Jundab:

Al-Ḥārith.: 708  He was the firstborn and he died before his father.: 99 
Quthum.: 100  He is not listed by Ibn Hisham.By Fatima bint Amr:

Al-Zubayr.: 707  He was a poet and a chief; his father made a will in his favour.: 99  He died before Islam, leaving two sons and daughters.: 101 : 34–35 
Abu Talib, born as Abd Manaf,: 99 : 707  father of the future Caliph Ali. He later became chief of the Hashim clan.
Abdullah, the father of Muhammad.: 99 : 707 
Umm Hakim al-Bayda,: 100 : 707  the maternal grandmother of the third Caliph Uthman.: 32 
Barra,: 100 : 707  the mother of Abu Salama.: 33 
Arwa.: 100 : 707 
Atika,: 100 : 707  a wife of Abu Umayya ibn al-Mughira.: 31 
Umayma,: 100 : 707  the mother of Zaynab bint Jahsh and Abd Allah ibn Jahsh.: 33 By Lubnā bint Hājar:

Abd al-'Uzzā, better known as Abū Lahab.: 100 : 708 By Halah bint Wuhayb:

Ḥamza,: 707  the first big leader of Islam. He killed many leaders of the kufar and was considered as the strongest man of the quraysh. He was martyred at Uhud.: 100 
Ṣafīyya.: 100 : 707 
Al-Muqawwim.: 707  He married Qilaba bint Amr ibn Ju'ana ibn Sa'd al-Sahmia, and had children named Abd Allah, Bakr, Hind, Arwa, and Umm Amr (Qutayla or Amra).
Hajl.: 707  He married Umm Murra bint Abi Qays ibn Abd Wud, and had two sons, named Abd Allah, Ubayd Allah, and three daughters named Murra, Rabi'a, and Fakhita.By Natīlah bint Khubāb:

al-'Abbas,: 100 : 707  ancestor of the Abbasid caliphs.
Ḍirār,: 707  who died before Islam.: 100 
Jahl, died before Islam
Imran, died before IslamBy Mumanna'a bint 'Amr:

Mus'ab, who, according to Ibn Saad, was the one known as al-Ghaydāq.: 100  He is not listed by Ibn Hisham.
Al-Ghaydaq, died before Islam.
Abd al-Ka'ba, died before Islam.: 100 
Al-Mughira,: 100  who had the byname al-Ghaydaq.

The family tree and some of his important descendants
Death
Abdul Muttalib's son 'Abdullāh died four months before Muḥammad's birth, after which Abdul Muttalib took care of his daughter-in-law Āminah. One day Muhammad's mother, Amina, wanted to go to Yathrib, where her husband, Abdullah, died. So, Muhammad, Amina, Abd al-Muttalib and their caretaker, Umm Ayman started their journey to Medina, which is around 500 kilometres away from Makkah. They stayed there for three weeks, then, started their journey back to Mecca. But, when they reached halfway, at Al-Abwa', Amina became very sick and died six years after her husband's death. She was buried over there. From then, Muhammad became an orphan. Abd al-Muttalib became very sad for Muhammad because he loved him so much. Abd al-Muttalib took care of Muhammad. But when Muhammad was eight years old, the very old Abd al-Muttalib became very sick and died at age 81-82 in 578-579 CE.
Shaybah ibn Hāshim's grave can be found in the Jannat al-Mu'allā cemetery in Makkah, Saudi Arabia.

See also
Family tree of Muhammad
Family tree of Shaiba ibn Hashim
Sahaba