Passage 1:
The Ballad of Uhlans
The Ballad of Uhlans (Уланская баллада) is a 2012 Russian historical adventure film directed by Oleg Fesenko, and stars Sergei Bezrukov, Anna Chipovskaya, Anton Sokolov and Vladimir Gostyukhin.
The Ballad of Uhlans was released on 1 November 2012 in Russia.

Plot
In 1812, on the eve of the decisive Battle of Borodino, a French secret agent steals a battle plan of the Russian troops. This fact is known to General Kutuzov, thanks to a young nobleman named Alexey Tarusov. Tarusov joins a regiment of Russian lancers, and finds new friends and together they have many adventures...

Cast
Sergei Bezrukov - (Go) Rzhevskiy
Anna Chipovskaya - Panna Beata
Anton Sokolov - Alexey Tarusov
Vladimir Gostyukhin - Turusov Sr.
Anatoliy Beliy - Knyaz Kiknadze
Stanislav Duzhkinov - Ptukha
Valery Nikolaev - De Vitt
Olga Kabo - Martha
Sergei Juravel - Mikhail Kutuzov
Boris Klyuyev - Arkacheev
Eric Fratichelli - Napoleon
Dimitri Isayev - Alexander I
Gedininas Adomaitis - Armand de Kolencour
Paweł Deląg - Ledokhovskiy
Alexei Makarov - Troitskiy
Egor Pazenko - Uvarov
Svetlana Metkina - Maria Valevskaya

Home Media
The Ballad of Uhlans was released on DVD and Blu-ray Disc in the Russian Federation in January 2013.

External links
Official website
The Ballad of Uhlans at IMDb
information in Kino-Teatr.Ru
Passage 2:
The Ballad of Uhlans
The Ballad of Uhlans (Уланская баллада) is a 2012 Russian historical adventure film directed by Oleg Fesenko, and stars Sergei Bezrukov, Anna Chipovskaya, Anton Sokolov and Vladimir Gostyukhin.
The Ballad of Uhlans was released on 1 November 2012 in Russia.

Plot
In 1812, on the eve of the decisive Battle of Borodino, a French secret agent steals a battle plan of the Russian troops. This fact is known to General Kutuzov, thanks to a young nobleman named Alexey Tarusov. Tarusov joins a regiment of Russian lancers, and finds new friends and together they have many adventures...

Cast
Sergei Bezrukov - (Go) Rzhevskiy
Anna Chipovskaya - Panna Beata
Anton Sokolov - Alexey Tarusov
Vladimir Gostyukhin - Turusov Sr.
Anatoliy Beliy - Knyaz Kiknadze
Stanislav Duzhkinov - Ptukha
Valery Nikolaev - De Vitt
Olga Kabo - Martha
Sergei Juravel - Mikhail Kutuzov
Boris Klyuyev - Arkacheev
Eric Fratichelli - Napoleon
Dimitri Isayev - Alexander I
Gedininas Adomaitis - Armand de Kolencour
Paweł Deląg - Ledokhovskiy
Alexei Makarov - Troitskiy
Egor Pazenko - Uvarov
Svetlana Metkina - Maria Valevskaya

Home Media
The Ballad of Uhlans was released on DVD and Blu-ray Disc in the Russian Federation in January 2013.

External links
Official website
The Ballad of Uhlans at IMDb
information in Kino-Teatr.Ru
Passage 3:
Moment of Truth
Moment of Truth or The Moment of Truth may refer to:

Music
Album
Moment of Truth (Gerald Wilson album), 1962
Moment of Truth (Terri Nunn album), 1991
Moment of Truth, a 2004 album by Da' T.R.U.T.H.
The Moment of Truth (compilation album), a 1999 album in The Emo Diaries series
Moment of Truth (ELO Part II album), 1994
Moment of Truth (Gang Starr album), 1998, or its title track
The Moment of Truth (The Real Milli Vanilli album), 1990
Moment of Truth (Suzy Bogguss album), 1990
Moment of Truth (Man with No Name album), 1996
Moment of Truth, a 2013 album by Glenn Lewis
Moment of Truth (Tinsley Ellis album), 2007
The Moment of Truth (Crow Mother album), 2017

Songs
"The Moment of Truth" (Survivor song), 1984, part of the soundtrack for The Karate Kid
"Moment of Truth", a 2004 song by Damageplan from New Found Power
"Moment of Truth", a 1971 song by Earth, Wind & Fire from Earth, Wind & Fire
"Moment of Truth", a 1993 song by Jeff Watson from Around the Sun
"Moment of Truth", a 2023 song by Lil Durk from Almost Healed
"Moment of Truth", a 2001 song by Timothy B. Schmit from Feed the Fire

Film and television
Moment of Truth (Canadian TV series), a Canadian serial drama television series which aired on CBC Television from 1964 to 1969
Moment of Truth (2021 TV series), an American true crime documentary about the unsolved murder of James R. Jordan Sr. in 1993.
The Moment of Truth (American game show), an American game show
The Moment of Truth (British game show), a British game show
Moment of Truth (film series), a series of made-for-television movies from the Lifetime cable channel
"The Moment of Truth" (Merlin), an episode of Merlin
The Moment of Truth (1952 film), a French film
The Moment of Truth (1965 film), an Italian film
In August of 1944, or The Moment of Truth, a 2001 Russian-Belarusian action film

Other
Moment of truth (marketing), when a customer interacts with a product that changes an impression about that particular product
The Moment of Truth (novel), a 2003 novel based on the Star Wars franchise
The Moment of Truth (play), a 1951 satire comedy drama play by Peter Ustinov

See also
Epiphany (disambiguation)
Passage 4:
The Ballad of Josie
The Ballad of Josie is a 1967 Technicolor American comedy Western film directed by Andrew V. McLaglen and starring Doris Day, Peter Graves, and George Kennedy. It humorously tackles 1960s themes of feminism in a traditional Western setting.
The film featured the last acting role for William Talman. It was filmed on two locations in Thousand Oaks, California: North Ranch and Wildwood Regional Park.

Plot
Josie (Doris Day) is a young woman living in (fictional) Arapahoe County, Wyoming. She accidentally kills her abusive alcoholic husband when she opens the bedroom door and knocks him backward down the stairs. She is put on trial for his death, but is acquitted. Her father-in-law gets custody of her young son (since he was better able to provide for his care) and takes him to Cheyenne to live while she tries to build a life as a rancher (including wearing Levi's pants, boots, etc.). Josie then incurs the annoyance of her male cattle rancher neighbors by farming sheep north of the Wyoming deadline), and setting up a women's suffrage movement.

Cast
Doris Day as Josie Minick
Peter Graves as Jason Meredith
George Kennedy as Arch Ogden
Andy Devine as Judge Tatum
William Talman as District Attorney Charlie Lord
David Hartman as Sheriff Fonse Pruitt
Guy Raymond as Doc
Audrey Christie as Annabelle Pettijohn
Karen Jensen as Deborah Wilkes
Elisabeth Fraser as Widow Renfrew
Linda Meiklejohn as Jenny McCardle
Shirley O'Hara as Elizabeth
Timothy Scott as Klugg The Sheepherder
Don Stroud as Bratsch The Sheepherder
Paul Fix as Alpheus Minick
Harry Carey as Mooney, Meredith's Foreman
John Fiedler as Simpson, general store owner
Robert Lowery as Whit Minick, town drunk
Teddy Quinn as Luther Minick, Josie's son
Edward Faulkner as Juror/Liveryman

See also
List of American films of 1967
Passage 5:
The Ballad of Narayama
The Ballad of Narayama may refer to:

The Ballad of Narayama (novel), a 1956 novel by Shichirō Fukazawa
The Ballad of Narayama (1958 film)
The Ballad of Narayama (1983 film)
Passage 6:
Point Danger
Point Danger or Danger Point may refer:

Places
AustraliaPoint Danger (Tweed Heads), on the border of New South Wales and Queensland
Point Danger (Portland), south-western Victoria
Point Danger (Torquay), south-western VictoriaOther placesDanger Point (County Devon), England, UK

Facilities and structures
Danger Point Lighthouse, Walker Bay, South Africa
Point Danger Light, located at Point Danger (Tweed Heads) on the border of New South Wales and Queensland, Australia

See also
Danger (disambiguation)
Point (disambiguation)
Passage 7:
The Ballad of Cossack Golota
The Ballad of Cossack Golota (Russian: Дума про казака Голоту) is a 1937 Soviet action drama film directed by Igor Savchenko.

Plot
The film is based on the novel R.V.S. by Arkady Gaidar. The film takes place in 1920 during the Civil War. All the men of Olkhovka village went to war. A young man Zhigan visits his grandfather and meets the son of a soldier of the Red Army - Sashko, who becomes his friend. Sashko receives information that the bandits want to kill the red commissar who must visit the village. Guys want to warn him.  The characters get mixed up with a wounded commissar and a marauding White Russian officer. They find themselves in all sorts of predicaments before the Reds arrive to save the day, and become the mascots of a troop of Bolshevik cavalry.

Starring
Konstantin Nassonov as Commissar
Leonid Shekhtman as Zhigan
Konstantin Tyrtov as Sashko
Nina Rusinova as Mother
Nikolai Sokolov as Grandfather
Viktor Seleznyov as (as Vitya Seleznyov)
Nikolay Gorlov as Ataman Levka
Faina Ranevskaya as priest's wife
Aleksandr Grechanyy as Goloven (as A. Grechanyj)
Konstantin Starostin as Ataman Kozolup (as K. Starostin)
Aleksandr Zhutaev as Vassili (as A. Zhutayev)
Y. Martsinchik as Polish Officer
Passage 8:
The Ballad of Little Joe
This is a list of VHS and DVD releases of the animated children's television series VeggieTales.

Videos
Original videos (1993–2015)
Theatrical films
Compilation videos
Collections
Lessons From The Sock Drawer (May 6, 2008): Includes various "Veggie Vault" Silly Songs, shorts, and briefs including Binky the Opera Singer, Dr. Jiggle & Mr. Sly, The Story of St. Patrick, Paco and The Singing Aardvark,  Gated Community, Paco and the Chicken, The Englishman Who Went Up The Hill, Larry's High Silk Hat, Larry's Lagoon, Modern Major General, Forgive-O-Matic, Larry's Blues, Going Up, Omelet, and Lunch
The Bumblyburg Super-Hero Value Pack: Includes Larry-Boy! And the Fib from Outer Space!, Larry-Boy and the Rumor Weed, Dave and the Giant Pickle (first Larry-Boy Appearance), and all four episodes of Larryboy: The Cartoon Adventures.
LarryBoy Superhero Power Pack: Includes Larry-Boy! And the Fib from Outer Space!, Larry-Boy and the Rumor Weed, LarryBoy and the Bad Apple, the 16 Feature Songs of LarryBoy: The New Soundtrack! CD and all four episodes of Larryboy: The Cartoon Adventures.
The Ultimate Christmas Collection: Includes The Toy That Saved Christmas, The Star of Christmas, Saint Nicholas: A Story of Joyful Giving, the 25 Favorite Christmas Songs! CD, Christmas Sing-Along Songs!, It's a Meaningful Life, and The Little Drummer Boy.
A Very Veggie Easter Collection: Includes An Easter Carol, Twas The Night Before Easter, and the songs from CD collections "A Very Veggie Easter" and "Hosanna!".
The Complete Silly Song Collection: Includes Very Silly Songs!, The End of Silliness? and The Ultimate Silly Song Countdown.
VeggieTales: 30 Episodes DVD Set: Includes Where's God When I'm S-Scared?, God Wants Me to Forgive Them!?!, Are You My Neighbor?, Larry-Boy! And the Fib from Outer Space!, Larry-Boy and the Rumor Weed, LarryBoy and the Bad Apple, The Toy That Saved Christmas, The Star of Christmas, Saint Nicholas: A Story of Joyful Giving, King George and the Ducky, Esther... The Girl Who Became Queen, Duke and the Great Pie War, Minnesota Cuke and the Search for Samson's Hairbrush, Minnesota Cuke and the Search for Noah's Umbrella, Sheerluck Holmes and the Golden Ruler, Rack, Shack and Benny, Dave and the Giant Pickle, Josh and the Big Wall!, The Ballad of Little Joe, Moe and the Big Exit, Tomato Sawyer and Huckleberry Larry's Big River Rescue, It's a Meaningful Life, Sweetpea Beauty: A Girl After God's Own Heart, The Wonderful Wizard of Ha's, Sumo of the Opera, Gideon: Tuba Warrior, Abe and the Amazing Promise, Lyle the Kindly Viking, A Snoodle's Tale and Pistachio - The Little Boy That Woodn't.
All the Shows Volume 1 1993–2000: Includes "Where's God When I'm S-Scared", "God Wants Me to Forgive Them!?!", "Are You My Neighbor?", "Rack, Shack and Benny", "Dave and the Giant Pickle", "The Toy That Saved Christmas", "Larry-Boy! And the Fib from Outer Space!", "Josh and the Big Wall", "Madame Blueberry" and "Larry-Boy and the Rumor Weed".
All the Shows Volume 2 2000–2005: Includes "King George and the Ducky", "Esther: The Girl Who Became Queen", "Lyle the Kindly Viking", "The Star of Christmas", "The Ballad of Little Joe", "An Easter Carol", "A Snoodle's Tale", "Sumo of the Opera", "Duke and the Great Pie War" and "Minnesota Cuke and the Search for Samson's Hairbrush".
All the Shows Volume 3 2006–2010: Includes "Sheerluck Holmes and the Golden Ruler", "LarryBoy and the Bad Apple", "Gideon: Tuba Warrior", "Moe and the Big Exit", "Tomato Sawyer and Huckleberry Larry's Big River Rescue", "Abe and the Amazing Promise", "Minnesota Cuke and the Search for Noah's Umbrella", "Saint Nicholas", "Pistachio" and "Sweetpea Beauty".
25th Anniversary 10-Movie Collection: Includes Jonah: A VeggieTales Movie, The Pirates Who Don't Do Anything: A VeggieTales Movie, A Snoodle's Tale, Lyle the Kindly Viking, Pistachio - The Little Boy That Woodn't, Sweetpea Beauty, Sumo of the Opera, Sheerluck Holmes and the Golden Ruler, Robin Good and His Not So Merry Men and The Penniless Princess.
The VeggieTales Christmas Classics: Includes The Toy That Saved Christmas, The Star of Christmas, Saint Nicholas: A Story of Joyful Giving, Christmas Sing-Along Songs!, It's a Meaningful Life, The Little Drummer Boy and Merry Larry and the True Light of Christmas.
LarryBoy Ultimate Superhero Collection: Includes Larry-Boy! And the Fib from Outer Space!, Larry-Boy and the Rumor Weed, LarryBoy and the Bad Apple, The League of Incredible Vegetables, and all four episodes of Larryboy: The Cartoon Adventures.

Double features
Holiday Double Feature: Includes The Toy that Saved Christmas and The Star of Christmas.
Lessons in Telling the Truth and The Power of Words Double Feature: Includes Larry-Boy! And the Fib from Outer Space! and Larry-Boy and the Rumor Weed.
Lessons in Thankfulness and Courage Double Feature: Includes Madame Blueberry and Esther... The Girl Who Became Queen.
Lessons in Obedience and Selfishness Double Feature: Includes Josh and the Big Wall and King George and the Ducky.
Halloween Double Feature: Includes Where's God When I'm S-Scared? and Rack, Shack & Benny.
Heroic Legends Double Feature: Includes The League of Incredible Vegetables and Esther... The Girl Who Became Queen.
Lessons in Friendship and Facing Hardship Double Feature: Includes Sheerluck Holmes and the Golden Ruler and The Ballad of Little Joe.
Silly Songs! Double Feature: Includes Very Silly Songs! and The Ultimate Silly Song Countdown.
Good Friends! Double Feature: Includes Rack, Shack & Benny and Tomato Sawyer and Huckleberry Larry's Big River Rescue .
Growing Generous Kids!: Includes Lyle the Kindly Viking and King George and the Ducky.
Growing Patient Kids!: Includes Abe and the Amazing Promise and Sumo of the Opera.
Growing Faithful Kids!: Includes "The Grapes Of Wrath" (from God Wants Me To Forgive Them!?!) and 'Gideon: Tuba Warrior'.
Growing Kindhearted Kids!: Includes  Tomato Sawyer and Huckleberry Larry's Big River Rescue and Babysitter in De Nile" (from Duke and the Great Pie War)
Growing Courageous Kids!: Includes The Ballad of Little Joe and "Bully Trouble" (from Minnesota Cuke and the Search for Samson's Hairbrush).
Growing Confident Kids!: Includes Rack, Shack and Benny and A Snoodle's Tale.
Movie Time!: Includes Jonah: A VeggieTales Movie &  The Pirates Who Don't Do Anything.

Triple features
Bob and Larry's Favorite Stories! (March 31, 1998): Includes Where's God When I'm S-Scared?, God Wants Me to Forgive Them!?!, and Are You My Neighbor?.
More of Bob and Larry's Favorite Stories (August 25, 1998): Includes Rack, Shack and Benny, Dave and the Giant Pickle, and Larry-Boy! And the Fib from Outer Space!.
Junior's Favorite Stories (November 9, 1999): Includes Josh and the Big Wall!, Very Silly Songs!, and Madame Blueberry.
Larry's Favorite Stories (May 23, 2000): Includes Larry-Boy and the Rumor Weed, The End of Silliness, and King George and the Ducky.
Classics from the Crisper (September 18, 2001): Includes Esther: The Girl Who Became Queen, Lyle the Kindly Viking, and The Ultimate Silly Song Countdown.
"Lions, Shepherds and Queens (Oh My!)" Includes "Daniel and the Lions' Den", "Dave and the Giant Pickle" and "Esther... The Girl Who Became Queen".
"Stand Up, Stand Tall, Stand Strong!" Includes "The Story of Flibber-o-Loo", "Rack, Shack and Benny" and "Josh and the Big Wall!"
Multi-Feature: Includes Minnesota Cuke and the Search for Samson's Hairbrush, Sumo of the Opera, and Dave and the Giant Pickle.
Girl Power! A VeggieTriple Feature: Includes Madame Blueberry, Duke and the Great Pie War, and Esther: The Girl Who Became Queen.
Superhero! A VeggieTriple Feature: Includes Larry-Boy! And the Fib from Outer Space!, Larry-Boy and the Rumor Weed, and LarryBoy and the Bad Apple.
Lessons for a Lifetime! A VeggieTriple Feature: Includes Jonah: A VeggieTales Movie, Lyle the Kindly Viking, and Gideon: Tuba Warrior.
God Made You Special! (August 11, 2007): Includes "Dave and the Giant Pickle", "The Gourds Must Be Crazy", and "A Snoodle's Tale". Also includes a new short, "Bob's Vacation"
"A Baby, A Quest and the Wild Wild West!": Includes "The Ballad of Little Joe", "Babysitter in DeNile" and "Mo and the Big Exit".
God Loves You Very Much! A VeggieTriple Feature: Includes "The Ballad of Little Joe", "Gideon, Tuba Warrior", and "Rack, Shack and Benny".
"A Silly Little Thing Called Love" A VeggieTale Triple Feature : Includes "The Story of Flibber -o-Loo", "Duke and the Great Pie War", and "Madame Blueberry".
"Happy Together": Includes "Sherlock Holmes and the Golden Ruler", "The Grapes of Wrath" and "Esther... The Girl Who Became Queen".
Veggie Classics! A VeggieTriple Feature: Includes Where's God When I'm S-Scared?, God Wants Me to Forgive Them!?!, and Are You My Neighbor?.
Bible Heroes! A VeggieTriple Feature: Includes Josh and the Big Wall!, Esther... The Girl Who Became Queen, and Moe and the Big Exit.
Royalty Collection! A Queen, A King and a Very Blue Berry: Includes Madame Blueberry, King George and the Ducky, and Esther: The Girl Who Became Queen.
Adventure Pack! The Search and Rescue Edition!: Includes Minnesota Cuke and the Search for Samson's Hairbrush, Sheerluck Holmes and the Golden Ruler, and Tomato Sawyer and Huckleberry Larry's Big River Rescue.
Good Guys! Triple Feature: Includes Dave and the Giant Pickle, Josh and the Big Wall!, and Tomato Sawyer and Huckleberry Larry's Big River Rescue.

Quadruple features
Funtastic Four!: Includes Robin Good, Big River Rescue, Minnesota Cuke and the Search for Noah's Umbrella, and Sheerluck Holmes.
Bible Story Collection: Includes King George and the Ducky, Dave and the Giant Pickle, Rack, Shack and Benny and Josh and the Big Wall!
Princess Story Collection: Includes Sweetpea Beauty, Esther... The Girl Who Became Queen, The Penniless Princess, and Princess and the Popstar.
Bible Heroes - 4 Movie Collection: Includes Noah's Ark, Gideon: Tuba Warrior, Josh and the Big Wall! and King George and the Ducky.
Bible Heroes - 4 Movie Collection 2: Includes Moe and the Big Exit, The Ballad of Little Joe, Esther... The Girl Who Became Queen and Dave and the Giant Pickle.
Superhero! - 4 Movie Collection: Includes Larry-Boy! And the Fib from Outer Space!, Larry-Boy and the Rumor Weed, LarryBoy and the Bad Apple and The League of Incredible Vegetables.
Passage 9:
Eskimo Nell (film)
Eskimo Nell, also known as The Ballad of Eskimo Nell and as The Sexy Saga of Naughty Nell and Big Dick, is a 1975 British sex comedy film directed by Martin Campbell and produced by Stanley Long. Though inspired by "The Ballad of Eskimo Nell", the movie owes little to the original bawdy song.
Long called it "my definitive statement about the sex films".

Plot
Budding film director Dennis Morrison (Michael Armstrong), producer Clive Potter (Terence Edmond), and screenwriter Harris Tweedle (Christopher Timothy) are hired by seedy erotic film producer Benny U. Murdoch (Roy Kinnear) to make a dirty movie based on the poem "The Ballad of Eskimo Nell". However they run into difficulty when each of the production's backers want a completely different style of film made. Then Murdoch makes off with the money and the three have to produce four different versions of the movie to keep everybody happy - a gay Western, a hardcore porno, a Kung Fu-style musical, and a wholesome family production.

Cast
Background
Many of the film's characters are based on real personalities of the time. Lady Longhorn and Lord Coltwind — the backers of the wholesome family version — are thinly veiled caricatures of Mary Whitehouse and Lord Longford. Benny U. Murdoch is loosely based on Tony Tenser, head of Tigon films. A more obscure figure the film ridicules is Louis "Deke" M. Heyward, the London representative of AIP (American International Pictures), who had previously clashed with the film's writer Michael Armstrong in 1969 during the making of Armstrong's directing debut, The Haunted House of Horror. In Eskimo Nell Heyward is parodied as "Big Dick", a crass, foul-mouthed American producer from "A.W.P Films", and the backer of the hardcore porno version. A similar character had previously appeared in Armstrong's script for The Sex Thief in 1973.
A pre-fame Mary Millington, then just a jobbing actress and model using her married name Mary Maxted, has a small role in the film as a stripping traffic warden who auditions for a part in the film within a film.  Although Millington appears only fleetingly (with her audition speeded up for comic effect), stills from her scene were used to publicize the film in magazines including Titbits and Cinema X.
The film is not to be confused with Richard Franklin's 1975 film The True Story of Eskimo Nell which was released in the UK as Dick Down Under. Campbell's film was re-titled The Sexy Saga of Naughty Nell and Big Dick in Australia.
Long half financed with Eagle films. He was a director by then but let Martin Campbell direct because he "thought he was very talented". Long says the film is loosely based on fact and real people who were in the film industry.

Home media
Eskimo Nell was released in a 'special edition' DVD and Blu-ray on 16 February 2015, to celebrate its 40th anniversary (the film was originally released in London in January 1975). The new edition has been digitally re-mastered at Pinewood Studios and comes with several extra features including the original theatrical trailer (unseen since 1975), an audio commentary by the film's actor-writer Michael Armstrong and film historian Simon Sheridan, an 8-page booklet, plus an extensive stills gallery and a newly re-mastered version of Mary Millington's short 1974 film Wild Lovers.
Passage 10:
Moment of Danger
Moment of Danger (also known as Malaga) is a 1960 British crime drama film starring Trevor Howard, Dorothy Dandridge and Edmund Purdom. It was filmed in Europe in the late months of 1959.
The film is based on the novel by Donald MacKenzie, and it was brought to the screen by David D. Osborn. The film proved to be the final completed film for Dorothy Dandridge.

Plot
Starting with a wordless jewel heist pulled-off by thief Peter Curran and locksmith John Bain, Curran then double-crosses his accomplice, dumps his lover Gianna and escapes with his ill-gotten gains.  In the aftermath Gianna teams up with Bain and the two of them decide to even the score with Curran, developing feelings for each other along the way.

Cast
Trevor Howard as John Bain
Dorothy Dandridge as Gianna
Edmund Purdom as Peter Carran
Michael Hordern as Inspector Farrell
Paul Stassino as Juan Montoya
John Bailey as Cecil
Alfred Burke as Shapley
Peter Illing as Pawnbroker
Martin Boddey as Sir John Middleburgh

Background
Before the film's release, Jet magazine said it "concerns a girl ... and a man ... who, broke and stranded, are on the run from the law...(at one point) the girl goes out and gets money as a prostitute."  One author describes Michael Hordern's appearance in the movie as a "sympathetic copper who knows that Trevor Howard is a jewel thief – thanks to Howard's double-crossing partner Edmond Purdom – but lacks the evidence to make an arrest."In the film Dorothy Dandridge was cast as a woman of colour of European descent with the Italian name of Gianna.  In some pre-release publicity, one magazine article made a point of saying that when Trevor Howard's character kissed Dorothy, it was the first time in her career that she had received an on-screen kiss from a white man. This was not so as the actors barely touched throughout, but director László Benedek created some strongly understated sexual tension. The actress' first screen kiss so described occurred when starring with German actor Curd Jürgens in the 1958 Italian production Tamango.