Passage 1:
August Underground's Mordum
August Underground's Mordum is a 2003 direct-to-video horror exploitation film  created and distributed by Toetag Pictures. It is the sequel to 2001's August Underground, and was followed by August Underground's Penance in 2007. The film is purposely shot in an amateur way to pass off the film as a faux snuff film.

Plot
Mordum is a home movie shot by serial killers Peter Mountain, his sadomasochistic girlfriend, Crusty, and her depraved man-child brother, Maggot. After Peter walks in on Crusty and Maggot having sex, an argument erupts between him and Crusty. It is quelled when Crusty sexually arouses Peter and herself via self-mutilation with a piece of glass. The two then break into a crack house, where Peter beats the owner to death with a hammer.
Crusty films the filth-encrusted building and the decaying corpse of an overdosed addict. When Peter starts stripping the body of the house's owner, claiming it will be easier to dispose of without clothes, another fight breaks out between him and Crusty when she questions his motive for undressing the body, accusing him of being "a faggot."
Crusty demonstrates her love of self-harm to Maggot and a friend, cutting her scarred arm with a knife. Crusty and Maggot remove a bound and masked woman from a box they have been keeping her in for "a long time." Maggot rapes the woman while Crusty cheers him on and taunts the victim. When Maggot is finished, he then lets a male captive out of another box, and he and Crusty force him to perform a penectomy on himself with a pair of cuticle scissors, then seal him back up. Crusty mimics oral sex with it, then uses it to violate the female victim.
The trio of killers go to town, where they torment a shopkeeper, eat fast food, and wander around. Maggot and Peter then watch and masturbate to Crusty torturing two women, sexually abusing and repeatedly vomiting on them while a male corpse rots in the corner of the room.  Eventually, the women are killed. Maggot disembowels one, chewing on her spilled innards and masturbating with them, while the other is beaten to death by Crusty and Peter, the latter dragging the body away to presumably have sex with it. They get drunk, and afterward, Maggot is found in the bathroom by Crusty, shaving and cutting himself to "look beautiful" for her.
The trio are next shown playing in the snow, attending a concert, meeting up with friends, raping a woman, and going to a piercing shop, where Maggot receives a nose ring and gets into a fight with Peter over his relationship with Crusty. The group then visit another serial killer, who shows them the contents of his shed; mutilated bodies, dying victims, and a headless and maggot-covered toddler, which Maggot eats a chunk of. Later, while the others are asleep, the new killer borrows their camera, and films himself taunting and slitting the throat of one of his female captives.
The trio attacks a family, killing the father first by hanging him. While Peter tortures the mother, Crusty watches Maggot have sex with the corpse of the young daughter in a bathtub. The three get into a fight, which escalates to Peter slitting the throat of the wife, while abusing Maggot with her blood, followed by the film cutting to static. Later, a cat is shown killing and eating a mouse.

Cast
Cristie Whiles as Crusty
Fred Vogel as Peter Mountain
Michael Todd Schneider as Maggot
Jerami Cruise as Man Shown Having Sex in Window
Killjoy as Fourth Killer
M. Kadath
Erika Schultz
E. Jay
Midian Crosby as Brunette Vomit Torture Victim
Elmo Painter as Blonde Vomit Torture Victim
Dave Brown as Dead Man in Vomit Torture Sequence
Art Ettinger as Male Friend
Rick Kundrach as Jonesy
Tim Grubjesik as Dead Junkie
Allana Sleeth as Female Friend
Shelby Vogel as Fourth Killer's Victim/Dead Mother
Shannon Thames
Chris Shaw as Dead Father
Daisy as Daisy
Superkollider

Release
Schneider left the crew shortly after the wrap of production on Mordum. He released his own cut of the film, subtitled "The Maggot Cut", through Maggot Films, and the official cut of the film was released on DVD in 2003.

Reception
The exploitation film database The Worldwide Celluloid Massacre has Mordum ranked as the fourth most "vile" film viewed by the website, below Salò, or the 120 Days of Sodom, The Angel's Melancholy and Carcinoma. The review of the film (which is categorized as "worthless") referred to it as "pointless hardcore depravity".

Controversy
While traveling to Canada to attend the Rue Morgue Festival of Fear in Toronto, co-director and writer Fred Vogel was arrested, pending charges of transporting obscene materials into Canada, when copies of Mordum and its predecessor were found by customs officials among the merchandise he had intended to bring to the convention. The charges were dropped, after Vogel had spent roughly ten hours in customs prison, and his films were sent to Ottawa for further observation.Copies of Mordum were confiscated by Australian customs officials in 2004, the reason given for the seizure of the DVDs being that "they offend against the standards of morality, decency and propriety generally accepted by reasonable adults to the extent that they should not be imported".
Passage 2:
Coney Island Baby (film)
Coney Island Baby is a 2003 comedy-drama in which film producer Amy Hobby made her directorial debut. Karl Geary wrote the film and Tanya Ryno was the film's producer. The music was composed by Ryan Shore. The film was shot in Sligo, Ireland, which is known locally as "Coney Island".
The film was screened at the Newport International Film Festival. Hobby won the Jury Award for "Best First Time Director".
The film made its premiere television broadcast on the Sundance Channel.

Plot
After spending time in New York City, Billy Hayes returns to his hometown. He wants to get back together with his ex-girlfriend and take her back to America in hopes of opening up a gas station. But everything isn't going Billy's way - the townspeople aren't happy to see him, and his ex-girlfriend is engaged and pregnant. Then, Billy runs into his old friends who are planning a scam.

Cast
Karl Geary - Billy Hayes
Laura Fraser - Bridget
Hugh O'Conor - Satchmo
Andy Nyman - Franko
Patrick Fitzgerald - The Duke
Tom Hickey - Mr. Hayes
Conor McDermottroe - Gerry
David McEvoy - Joe
Thor McVeigh - Magician
Sinead Dolan - Julia

Music
The film's original score was composed by Ryan Shore.

External links
Coney Island Baby (2006) at IMDb
MSN - Movies: Coney Island Baby
Passage 3:
August Underground
August Underground is a 2001 American exploitation horror film directed by Fred Vogel, and written by Vogel and Allen Peters. The film stars Vogel as a serial killer named Peter, who kidnaps and kills several innocent people, while his unnamed accomplice, played by Peters, films and documents the murders.
Filmed in an intentionally amateurish found footage style, August Underground was met with mixed reviews. The film was followed by two sequels, August Underground's Mordum in 2003, and August Underground's Penance in 2007.

Plot
Peter, a serial killer, invites his camera-wielding friend into his basement, where he is holding a woman named Laura captive. Peter and his accomplice torture her at their leisure, committing sadistic acts such as slicing one of her nipples off and covering her in feces and urine.
Next, the two pick up a female hitchhiker. After Peter coerces her into performing oral sex, he beats and leaves her for dead on the side of the road. After the duo are kicked out of a concert for rowdy behavior, Peter and his accomplice return to the house to find that Laura has died.
Peter murders an old woman in her home, then terrorizes a convenience store with his accomplice. They abandon their plans to kidnap the clerk or a shopper when they hear police sirens approaching. The two then proceed to tour Roadside America, and visit a tattoo parlor. When the tattoo artist finishes giving Peter a tattoo, he and his twin brother are captured by Peter and the cameraman. They cut a leg off of the tattoo artist then bludgeon him and his brother to death.
The two hire prostitutes for a drug-fueled orgy. Peter sodomizes one prostitute while beating her with a hammer. The remaining prostitute tries to escape. In the chaotic chase that ensues, the accomplice drops the camera, leading to silence in the room.

Cast
Fred Vogel as Peter
Allen Peters as Man Behind the Camera
Kyle Dealman
Dan Friedman
Alexa Iris as Hitchhiker
Victoria Jones as Old Woman
Aaron LaBonte as Younger Twin
Ben LaBonte as Older Twin
Andrew Lauer
Peter Mountain
AnnMarie Reveruzzi as Laura (Girl in Cellar)
Erika Risovich as Erika (Blond Prostitute)
Russel A. Sagona
Randi Stubbs as Black Prostitute
Stephen Vogel as Boy in Supermarket
John A. Wisniewski as Michael (Dead Man in Bathtub)
Nick Yatso as Bouncer at Concert

Production
August Underground was produced, and directed by Fred Vogel in his directorial debut, with Vogel also co-writing, and starring in the film's lead role. Initially, Vogel had wanted to make a "big-budget zombie film", but felt that his inexperience at making a feature film would turn away any potential financiers. With this in mind, Vogel decided to make another film that would help him gain awareness of his work and potential financing for the film. The idea for the film came from Vogel's frustration with the serial killer genre, which he felt "didn't show you what was really going on". Taking inspiration from John McNaughton's Henry: Portrait of a Serial Killer, Vogel wanted to make a film that was both "ugly" and realistic while also being unique and original. Principal photography began in August 2000, under the working title Peter.Vogel initially hoped to conduct a guerrilla marketing campaign for the film, in which VHS tapes of the film would be placed in random locations around the United States, such as parks and playgrounds, for passersby to discover. However this plan was abandoned following the September 11 attacks and subsequent anthrax attacks.

Release
Critical response
Gregory S. Burkart of Bloody Disgusting included August Underground on his list "20 Landmarks of Found-Footage Horror!", writing: "I'm not a big fan of this series, but I admire Vogel's fearless audacity in serving up the ultimate in onscreen sadism". Jay Alan from HorrorNews.net gave the film a positive review, praising the film's performances, gore effects, and realistic quality. Chris Mayo of Severed Cinema offered similar praise: "August Underground is a true testament of what horror should be; nasty, nihilistic, raw and real". Robert Firsching from Allmovie wrote in his review on the film: "A grueling but important antidote to the plethora of films glamorizing serial killers, August Underground is not likely to find a wide audience, but will not leave those who manage to find a copy unaffected".The film was later ranked at #14 in Complex's Most Disturbing Movies of All Time, with the entry on the film noting its realistic quality, and "sadistically natural vibe".

Controversy
In 2005, while traveling to Canada to attend the Rue Morgue Festival of Fear in Toronto, director and co-writer Fred Vogel was arrested, pending charges of transporting obscene materials into Canada, when copies of August Underground and its sequel were found by customs officials among the merchandise he had intended to bring to the convention. The charges were eventually dropped, after Vogel had spent roughly ten hours in customs custody, and his films were sent to Ottawa for further observation.
Passage 4:
Vasantha Raagam
Vasantha Raagam (transl. Tune of spring) is a 1986 Indian Tamil-language romantic drama film, directed by S. A. Chandrasekhar and produced by his wife Shoba who wrote the story. The film stars Vijayakanth, Rahman and Sudha Chandran. It was released on 1 August 1986.

Plot
A young journalist Raghu falls in love with Vasantha. As advised by a senior journalist colleague Chandrasekhar, Raghu eventually confesses his feelings to his lady love. Vasantha is revealed to be a widow. Raghu and Vasantha eventually marry, with the approval of Vasantha's mother, who was initially hesitant. It is revealed through flashback that Vasantha was deeply in love and about to be married to Vijay but he dies in an accident. In sadness, and in attempting to move forward, Vasantha and Vasantha's mother (Vijay's older sister) shift base to Madras.
In a strange twist of fate, Vijay is shown to have mistakenly been declared deceased. He is alive and now a famous stage singer. Vasantha and Raghu meet Vijay as audience members at one of his shows.
Vasantha hides her shock not to make Raghu suspicious. Raghu remains clueless about his wife's past with Vijay. Raghu is only aware that Vasantha was a widow before him marrying her and asks nothing further. Raghu is impressed with Vijay's musical abilities and looks up to him as an elder brother figure.
Vijay's older sister is alerted to Vijay's presence by her daughter Vasantha and goes to Vijay's hotel room to meet him. She is emotional and shocked that Vijay is indeed alive. She is distraught that she got Vasantha married to Raghu, while Vijay was active. She apologises to her younger brother Vijay and says she got her daughter Vasantha married as everyone thought Vijay had died.
She requests her younger brother to leave Madras not to interfere or cause problems to her daughter Vasantha's marriage. Vijay is overwhelmed and begs his sister to let him remain in Madras. He promises never to be seen by them but that he will merely admire his beloved Vasantha from a distance.
Vasantha's mother is still not happy with this and feels that Vijay should leave Madras in everyone's best interests.
Vijay gets a cab to Madras Airport to leave the city, but the cab driver is intoxicated, and they both meet with a non-fatal car accident.
Vijay is taken to hospital, and Raghu is informed as he is listed as Vijay's contact person. Raghu brings Vijay back to his house to recuperate.
Raghu hosts a house party to commemorate his first wedding anniversary with Vasantha. Vijay is requested to sing a song and entertain the guests. After the guests leave, it is inadvertently revealed to Raghu that Vasantha was meant to be married to Vijay, but everyone assumed Vijay had died.
On discovering this hidden truth, Raghu feels he has come between the true love of Vijay and Vasantha and decides to leave town so they can unite.
Vasantha and Vasantha's mother assures Raghu that Vasantha is committed to her marriage to Raghu and that despite Vijay being alive, he has been considered long dead and they have moved on with their lives.
Vijay leaves Raghu's house and returns to his hotel room.
Vijay writes a heartfelt letter to Raghu and Vasantha wishing them all the best for their future and that they belong to each other as rightful husband and wife.
Raghu, Vasantha and Vasantha's mother arrive at Vijay's hotel room to read Vijay's letter.
Vijay, tragically, commits suicide by shooting himself in the head.
Unable to bear the pain of living a life without his Vasantha, he chooses to escape the problem forever.

Cast
Soundtrack
The music was composed by M. S. Viswanathan.

Reception
Jayamanmadhan (a duo) of Kalki appreciated the music but criticised the story, though they complemented Chandrasekhar for trying to deviate from his usual revenge-themed films.
Passage 5:
Rakka (film)
Rakka is a 2017 American-Canadian military science fiction short film made by Oats Studios and  directed by Neill Blomkamp. It was released on YouTube and Steam on 14 June 2017.

Plot
Chapter 1: World
In the near future, Earth will be attacked by technologically superior and highly aggressive reptilian aliens called the Klum (pronounced "klume"). Humanity is nearing extinction with millions dead or enslaved. The Klum transform the Earth in favor of their own ideal living conditions. They do this at first by burning forests and destroying cities. Then they build megastructures that alter the atmosphere by pumping out methane. The gas makes it progressively harder for terrestrial life to breathe. And it warms the climate, which leads to flooding of coastal cities.
The story begins in 2020, from the viewpoint of resistance fighters in Texas, a group of US Army soldiers and many others who have banded together. Most human survivors live underground or among ruins. They have barely enough provisions, weapons, and ammunition. The humans fight by using whatever they can against the primary Klum weapon: an omnipresent nanite in their weaponry, and telepathic control over any human that makes direct eye contact with them.
The resistance makes "brain-barriers" that block this
mind control. The Klum know, however, that a scarcity of materials means a scarcity of brain barriers. They hope, therefore, to win a war of attrition against the human survivors.
Some prisoners are living incubators for the Klum's young, which inevitably kills the victims. Others are dissected. Still other humans are converted into human loudspeakers that urge humans to surrender into "conservatories". Very few humans ever escape.
After the Klum destroy a militia convoy with an airstrike, one of the surviving soldiers witnesses an angel-like being materialize from thin air. The narration describes ″them″ as mankind's saviours.

Chapter 2: Amir & Nosh
Nosh is a tech-savvy pyromaniac and bomb-maker, eking out a living in a scrapyard far from the resistance. The resistance despises Nosh for his murderous glee and demands - giving the sick or suicidal over as bait during his many IED ambushes. They must, however, give in to Nosh's demands to
secure the IEDs and the brain-barriers he makes.
The resistance stumble across Amir, a mute who has escaped from the Klum. He has extensive cybernetics across his head and shoulders. Amid opposition from her lieutenants, the resistance leader, Jasper, releases Amir from her custody into the care of a resistance fighter named Sarah.
Sarah, having lost her daughter to the Klum's experiments, takes a liking to him. She gives Amir food and drink while trying to persuade him to help the resistance fight the Klum by using the precognitive abilities he acquired via the aliens' experiments.

Chapter 3: Siege
Amir recovers physically and mentally. Then, because of his implant, he has a premonition involving a wounded Klum on the run from militia forces.
Sarah pleads with Amir to help the militia officers to stop the genocide. The more she talks to him, the more his eyes change, seeing the premonition of the impending attack more clearly. Amir, still mute, foresees the militia successfully shooting down an alien aircraft, and the pilot is the alien on the run.
Sarah asks Amir if they will be able to learn how to hunt the Klum and teach them how to fear. Unable to answer, he foresees the Klum telekinetically bashing one of the militia soldiers, disconnecting his brain barrier and causing him to be mind-controlled, turning on his comrades, who are forced to kill him.
Sarah tells Amir that he now has the abilities the aliens have and that he is to use them for humanity. Back in the vision, the militia surround the Klum; Jasper orders the militia to cut off its head. The film ends with Sarah urging Amir to use his abilities because he is humanity's last hope.

Cast
Sigourney Weaver as Jasper
Eugene Khumbanyiwa as Amir
Robert Hobbs as Carl
Carly Pope as Sarah
Brandon Auret as Nosh
Mike Huff as Policeman
Owen McCrae as Klum
Connor Page as Child
Jay Anstey as A suicide bomber
Justin Shaw as Man in medical device
Carla Marais as eight-year-old girl
Ryan Angilley as Martinez
Alec Gillis as Militia officer 1
Ruan Coetzee as Militia officer 2
Paul Davies as Militia officer 3
Pieter Jacobz as Militia officer 4
Passage 6:
Royal Tramp II
Royal Tramp II is a 1992 Hong Kong film based on Louis Cha's novel The Deer and the Cauldron. The film is a sequel to Royal Tramp, which was released earlier in the same year.

Plot
Having been revealed as the false Empress Dowager, Lung-er returns to the Dragon Sect camp. There, the sect leader reminds her of their mission to support Ng Sam-kwai's, a military general, campaign for the throne before abdicating her title to Lung-er.
Siu-bo lounges at the brothel where he once worked but is then attacked by disciples of the One Arm Nun, an anti-Qing revolutionary figure, before being quickly subdued. When Siu-bo tries to take advantage of them, Ng Ying-hung, Ng Sam-kwai's son, exposes his lies. Scorned and unaware of the stranger's title, Siu-bo sends his men after Ying-Hung, but Lung-er, now disguised as Ying-hung's male bodyguard, easily fends them off.
At the palace, The Emperor, wary of Ng Sam-kwai's intentions, marries off the Princess to Ying-hung and assigns Siu-bo to be the Imperial Inspector General of the wedding march, so that he can keep his eyes on the general's activities. This complicates Siu-bo's relationship with Princess when she tells Siu-bo she's pregnant with his child.
The One Arm Nun and her disciple, Ah Ko, later ambushes the procession. Fighting to a standstill with Lung-er, the assailants escape with Ying-hung and Siu-bo. However, Siu-bo garners some respect from her when he reveals his dual identity as a Heaven and Earth Society commander. Lung-er finally catches up to them with reinforcements at an inn but only manages to rescue Siu-bo. Having been saved by Ying-hung before, Ah Ko elopes with him amid the confusion.
At the Dragon Sect camp, Ying-hung and Fung Sek-fan secretly poisons Lung-er and turn the followers against her. She escapes with Siu-bo but must have sex with a man before dawn, otherwise she will die. However, this will transfer 4/5th of her martial arts' power to whomever she sleeps with. Despite Siu-bo's lecherous personality, Lung-er accepts his blunt honesty as a sign of virtue and chooses to sacrifice her virginity to Siu-bo and becomes his third wife.
When Siu-bo gets back to the Princess, they execute a plan to castrate Ying-hung. With her betrothed no longer able to produce heirs, the Princess is taken by Siu-bo as his fourth wife. Enraged by the end of his family line, Ng Ying-hung prematurely gathers his troops and sets out to wage war with the Emperor. He tasks Fung Sek-fan with killing the Princess and Siu-bo. Though Chan Kan-nam manages to intervene and lets his disciple escape.
Later, the One Arm Nun captures the elopers, Ying-hung and Ah Ko, and offers them to Siu-bo. Siu-bo pardons them and even takes Ah Ko as his fifth wife. Afterward, Fung Sek-fan is promoted when he surrenders Ng Sam-kwai's battle plans and Chan Kan-nam to the Emperor. Given Siu-bo's muddied history with the Heaven and Earth Society, the Emperor tasks him with Chan's execution. Siu-bo's newfound power is difficult for him to control, and Chan helps him master it in time for him to use it against Fung. Siu-bo also uncovers the secret of the 42 Chapters books after burning them in frustration, revealing hidden stones that are left unburned, revealing map coordinates to the location of the treasure all major parties have been attempting to locate.
In order to save his master, Siu-bo defeats Fung with his newly acquired martial arts power after both falling into a hidden cave wherein the treasure is found, and swaps Feng's body with Chan's before the execution to save his master. And just as he was about to escape with his wives and Chan, the Emperor arrives with his troops, having been sold out by Siu-bo's opportunistic friend To-lung who is now involved romantically with Siu-bo's sister. But seeing that they are friends, his sister is in love with Siu-bo, and with Siu-bo bluffing that he's strong enough to demolish the Emperor and his entire army if he wanted, the Emperor lets them go, declaring that Siu-bo has died and no longer exists as far as he's concerned. Siu-bo laughs afterward that the Emperor fell for his bluff.

Cast
Stephen Chow as Wai Siu-bo
Brigitte Lin as Lung-er
Chingmy Yau as Princess Kin-ning
Michelle Reis as Ah Ko/Li Ming-ko
Natalis Chan as To-lung
Damian Lau as Chan Kan-nam
Deric Wan as Hong-hei Emperor
Kent Tong as Ng Ying-hung, Sam-kwai's son
Paul Chun as Ng Sam-kwai
Sandra Ng as Wai Chun-fa
Fennie Yuen as Seung-yee twin
Vivian Chan as Seung-yee twin
Yen Shi-kwan as Fung Sek-fan
Helen Ma as Kau-nan/one-armed Divine nun
Sharla Cheung as Mo Tung-chu / Empress Dowager
Law Lan as founder of Divine Dragon Sect
Tam Suk-moi as Ah Nong
Hoh Choi-chow as Palace guard Wen Shan Lun
Yeung Jing-jing
Wan Seung-lam
Lee Fai
Cheng Ka-sang
Ho Wing-cheung
Kwan Yung
To Wai-wo
Passage 7:
The Redsin Tower
The Redsin Tower is a 2006 indie low-budget horror film directed by  Fred Vogel and written by Fred and Shelby Lyn Vogel. This is the third film produced and distributed by TOETAG INC, and the first film in their filmography to be a traditional three-act narrative. The Redsin Tower is noteworthy for its use of excessive gore, violence, and psychological horror. The plot centers around Kim, a girl trying to get over her ex-boyfriend by taking a trip with her friends to the Redsin tower, where the partying quickly becomes a fight for their lives. The film was distributed and released on DVD on October 10, 2007 by TOETAG INC.

Plot
Cast
Bethany Newell as Kim Abrahams
Perry Tiberio as Mitch Allen
Jessica Kennedy as Becky Adams
Meghan O'Halloran as Emily Dickson
Peter Schmidt as Phil Pepper
Billy D. Martin as Carl Hinze
A.C. Earing as Steve Jacobs
Fred Vogel as Curtis Pepper
Shelby Jackson as Sandy
Kathie McDermitt as Smoking Woman
Nathaniel DeMarco as Big Ed
Cristie Whiles as Redsin's Wife
Jerami Cruise as Mateo Redsin

Release
The Redsin Tower  initially premiered at Pioneer Theater in Manhattan on October 29, 2006. The film went on to be played at Fantasia 2007 and Freak Show Horror Film Festival 2007 in Orlando.

Awards
Reception
Horror society says “The Redsin Tower is a surprisingly well-shot horror film” in comparison to TOETAG Inc's previous August Underground series, giving the film a rating of 3.5/5. Jay Alan from Horror News wrote that “There are guts pouring, heads rolling, maggots and blood squirting, grotesque vomiting and the absolute best ax murder I’ve ever seen. “
Johnny Butane of Dead Central writes, "The horrible things that happen to these kids [are] spaced out in such a way that the actions fit into the overall narrative quite nicely, which makes the film as a whole even more enjoyable."
Passage 8:
The Wonderful World of Captain Kuhio
The Wonderful World of Captain Kuhio (クヒオ大佐, Kuhio Taisa, lit. "Captain Kuhio") is a 2009 Japanese comedy-crime film, directed by Daihachi Yoshida, based on Kazumasa Yoshida's 2006 biographical novel, Kekkon Sagishi Kuhio Taisa (lit. "Marriage swindler Captain Kuhio"), that focuses on a real-life marriage swindler, who conned over 100 million yen (US$1.2 million) from a number of women between the 1970s and the 1990s.The film was released in Japan on 10 October 2009.

Cast
Masato Sakai - Captain Kuhio
Yasuko Matsuyuki - Shinobu Nagano
Hikari Mitsushima - Haru Yasuoka
Yuko Nakamura - Michiko Sudo
Hirofumi Arai - Tatsuya Nagano
Kazuya Kojima - Koichi Takahashi
Sakura Ando - Rika Kinoshita
Masaaki Uchino - Chief Fujiwara
Kanji Furutachi - Shigeru Kuroda
Reila Aphrodite
Sei Ando

Awards
At the 31st Yokohama Film Festival
Best Actor – Masato Sakai
Best Supporting Actress – Sakura Ando
Passage 9:
August Underground's Penance
August Underground's Penance is a 2007 horror film written and directed by Fred Vogel, and co-written by Cristie Whiles. It is the sequel to 2003's August Underground's Mordum, and the final installment in the August Underground series, which began in 2001.

Plot
August Underground's Penance continues the series' narrative mode of showing the lives of serial killers (now just Peter, and his girlfriend Crusty) through their camera, though this installment abandons the "degraded footage" aspect employed by the first two films, being shot in high-definition.
After killing a man who breaks free of his restraints and tries to escape them, Peter and Crusty visit various locations in town and enjoy some fireworks at a celebration. Peter is then shown in his basement, taunting a semi-conscious man who has had nails hammered into various parts of his body. Next, Peter and Crusty go on a hike, assault a vagrant they find sleeping under a bridge, and cut a man open so they can pull his gurgling intestines out. The two then attend a party, where Peter does drugs, Crusty flirts with other women, and a live rat is fed to a pet alligator.
Around Christmas, Peter and Crusty break into a family's home. Peter bludgeons the father with a hammer and suffocates the mother, whom he is unsuccessful in trying to rape due to being unable to attain an erection. When the dead couple's young daughter stumbles onto the two intruders, Crusty strangles her. While Peter goes to shower, Crusty opens some of the family's presents, then falls asleep beside the corpses of the little girl and her mother. Later, while watching a band perform, Crusty goes to an empty room with a man, with whom she has rough anal sex. Back in the basement, Peter and Crusty torture and murder several people they have imprisoned. Afterward, they take apart a dead deer, and with a friend's help, feed pieces of it to a lion. The two then enjoy several recreational activities, like shooting on a makeshift firing range, and racing ATVs.
As Peter beats a man to death with a hammer, Crusty drinks some of the spilled blood, then helps Peter dismember a female body. When Peter wakes up from a nap, he and Crusty get into an argument. Peter is then shown cutting the fetus out of a pregnant woman, an act which causes Crusty to break down. When his attempts at comforting Crusty fail, Peter rapes her, then goes into hysterics himself. Peter gets drunk and proceeds to take his frustrations out on a woman in the cellar while screaming insults at Crusty, who is still sobbing hysterically upstairs. When Peter passes out, Crusty throws alcohol and other fluids onto his body, while ranting about how much she hates him.
After beating and tying up a woman, Peter masturbates and smears his semen on her. When Crusty walks in on this, she gets into a physical fight with Peter; he beats her while she screams insults and profanities at him. When Peter falls asleep, Crusty spits on him, and strangles his captive to death. With the woman dead, Crusty breaks down again, and begins begging for forgiveness and rambling about how she "wants out". The film ends with Crusty going to the bathroom and committing suicide via self-asphyxiation.

Cast
Fred Vogel as Peter Mountain
Cristie Whiles as Crusty
Merle Allin as himself
J. B. Beverley as himself
Dino Sex as himself

Reception
A four out of five was awarded by Dread Central, which wrote: "I felt uncomfortable, disturbed and a little sick for watching it. I also can't help but feel like I had just watched art. Sick, fucked up art, but art nonetheless" and concluded that by viewing the film "you'll feel dirty, sickened and a little fucked up for watching it, and to me, that's what's great about it". Digital Retribution gave Penance a three out of five, and found that the film was much more professional than its predecessors, and that it is "certainly not for everyone, not even for some who consider themselves lovers of hardcore horror, August Underground's Penance is a hard-hitting, faux-snuff fest. It is also a suitably fitting end to the series with actors Fred Vogel and Cristie Whiles delving into levels of intense paranoia, showcasing a decline in mental and psychical  [sic] stability while torturing and butchering nameless individuals. It strives to achieve a point of expressing the mind of a modern serial killer and although this may be lost or unappreciated by those expecting a Mordum 2, it awards the film a credibility that was certainly missing in August Underground's Mordum".The Worldwide Celluloid Massacre stated that while the leads "have to act in this installment" it was still "the same boring sickness" and "the same pointless realistic snuff trash".
Passage 10:
Invasion of the Neptune Men
Invasion of the Neptune Men (宇宙快速船, Uchū Kaisokusen) is a 1961 superhero film produced by Toei Company Ltd. The film stars Sonny Chiba as Iron Sharp (called Space Chief in the U.S. version).The film was released in 1961 in Japan and was later released in 1964 direct to television in the United States. In 1998, the film was featured on an episode of Mystery Science Theater 3000.

Plot
Astronomer Shinichi Tachibana has a secret identity as superhero "Iron Sharp" and has many children as friends. When they are attacked by a group of metallic aliens ("Neptune Men" in English), Iron Sharp drives the aliens away. The resourceful Tachibana helps develop an electric barrier to block the aliens from coming to the Earth.  After several losses by the aliens, they announce that they will invade the Earth, throwing the world into a state of panic. The aliens destroy entire cities with their mothership and smaller fighters. After Iron Sharp destroys multiple enemy ships, Japan fires nuclear missiles at the mothership, destroying it.

Cast
Sonny Chiba as scientist Shinichi Tachibana / Iron Sharp
Kappei Matsumoto as Dr. Tanigawa
Ryuko Minakami as Yōko (Tanigawa's daughter)
Shinjirō Ehara as scientist Yanagida
Mitsue Komiya as scientist Saitō

Style
Invasion of the Neptune Men is part of Japan's tokusatsu genre, which involves science fiction and/or superhero films that feature heavy use of special effects.

Production
Invasion of the Neptune Men was an early film for Sonny Chiba. Chiba started working in Japanese television where he starred in superhero television series in 1960. Chiba continued working back and forth between television and film until the late 1960s when he became a more popular star.

Release
Uchū Kaisokusen was released in Japan on 19 July 1961. The film was not released theatrically in the United States, but it was released directly to American television by Walter Manley on March 20, 1964, dubbed in English and retitled Invasion of the Neptune Men.The film was also released as Space Chief, Space Greyhound and Invasion from a Planet.

Reception and legacy
In later reviews of the film, Bruce Eder gave the film a one-star rating out of five, stating that the film was "the kind of movie that gave Japanese science fiction films a bad name. The low-quality special effects, the non-existent acting, the bad dubbing, and the chaotic plotting and pacing were all of a piece with what critics had been saying, erroneously, about the Godzilla movies for years." The review referred to the film's "cheesy special effects and ridiculous dialogue taking on a sort of so-bad-they're-good charm", and described the film as a "thoroughly memorable (if not necessarily enjoyable, outside of the MST3K continuum) specimen of bad cinema."On October 11, 1997 the film was shown on the movie-mocking television show Mystery Science Theater 3000. In his review of the film, Bruce Eder of AllMovie described the episode as a memorable one, specifically the cast watching the repetitive aerial dogfights between spaceships, and one of the hosts remarking that "Independence Day seems a richly nuanced movie". Criticism of the film included excessive use of WWII stock footage in the action scenes (especially the obviously noticeable shot featuring a picture of Adolf Hitler in one building).In his book Japanese Science Fiction, Fantasy and Horror Films, Stuart Galbraith IV stated that the film "had a few surprises" despite a "woefully familiar script". Galbraith noted that the film was not as over-the-top as Prince of Space and that the opticals in the film were as strong as anything Toho had produced at the time. Galbraith suggested the effects may have been lifted from Toei's The Final War (aka World War III Breaks Out) from 1961.

See also
List of Japanese films of 1961
List of Mystery Science Theater 3000 episodes
List of science fiction films of the 1960s

Notes