Passage 1:
Taking his Chance
Taking his Chance is a 1914 film from director Raymond Longford based on a poem by Henry Lawson.It is considered a lost film.
Passage 2:
Mutiny in the Big House
Mutiny in the Big House is a 1939 American film directed by William Nigh.

Plot
Father Joe Collins is a kindly but realistic prison chaplain who tries to bring some humanity behind the grim walls of a major penitentiary. One of his success stories is "Dad" Schultz, a kindly convict who was released after 20 years but found the outside world so overwhelming that he had a nervous breakdown. Father Collins convinces the prison officials to take him back as a civilian employee/gardener, so he will "feel at home".
Father Collins also takes an interest in Johnny Davis, an educated inmate who received an overly stiff sentence for
forging a $10.00 check. Hardened lifer Red Manson does his best to lessen the influence of Father Collins among the inmates, while planning a mass breakout.
When the break begins, Davis wildly fires a rifle to keep Father Collins from being taken hostage. The distraction
enables the guards to regain control of the prison.
His actions gain Davis an early release, meanwhile Manson, who killed two guards during the riot, is headed for death row.

Cast
Charles Bickford as Father Joe Collins
Barton MacLane as Red Manson
Pat Moriarity as Pat, the Warden
Dennis Moore as Johnny Davis
William Royle as Captain of Guards Ed Samson
Charley Foy as Convict Bitsy
George Cleveland as Convict "Dad" Schultz
Nigel De Brulier as Convict Mike Faleri
Eddie Foster as Convict Del
Richard Austin as Singing Jim
Russell Hopton as Convict Frankie

External links
Mutiny in the Big House at IMDb
Mutiny in the Big House is available for free viewing and download at the Internet Archive
Passage 3:
Road to the Big House
Road to the Big House is a 1947 American crime drama film directed by Walter Colmes. It was based on a script by Aubrey Wisberg.
It was also known as The Dark Road.

Plot
Cast
John Shelton as Eddie Clark
Ann Doran as Agnes Clark
Guinn "Big Boy" Williams as Butch McQuinn

Production
The film was made by a new company, Somerset Pictures, established in 1947 by Walter Combes, Solly Levenstn and Jake Milstein. It followed their first film The Burning Cross.Somerset announced their third film would be about teachers' salaries. But it appears to have not been made.
Passage 4:
Mabel's Latest Prank
Mabel's Latest Prank is a 1914 film both starring and co-directed by Mabel Normand and Mack Sennett.

Cast
Mabel Normand
Mack Sennett
Hank Mann
Slim Summerville

External links
Mabel's Latest Prank at IMDb
Passage 5:
A Kind of America
A Kind of America (Hungarian: Valami Amerika) is a Hungarian comedy film from 2002.

Plot
The film is situated in Budapest, where the brothers Ákos, András, and Tamás live. Tamás is a director of video clips and commercials, but dreams of directing a feature film. He has written a script with the title 'The Guilty City', but has trouble financing the project. At his surprise, he receives an email from an American film producer named Alex Brubeck, who writes that he likes the script. Offering to pay half the budget, he wants to meet Tamás personally in Budapest to talk things through. With the help of his brothers Ákos, a successful manager and sex addict, and András, a failed poet, he does everything to impress the American producer.

External links
A Kind of America at IMDb
Passage 6:
The Fugitive (1914 film)
The Fugitive (Russian: Беглец) is a 1914 Russian-French short film directed by Alexandre Volkoff.

Plot
The film is based on a poem by Mikhail Lermontov.
Part 1. There are folk festivals in the village. Russian troops are approaching. Harun goes to war. During the battle, Harun's father and two brothers are killed, and he flees the battlefield out of fear.
Part 2 (not preserved). Harun wanders, returns to the aul, tries to justify himself to his relatives and dies.

Starring
Asho Shakhatuni
Alesandr Rusteikis
Passage 7:
Shima (film)
Shima is a 2007 film from Uzbekistan.

Plot
At the end of the Second World War, imperial Japanese fanaticism seals the fate of an island's inhabitants and its garrison, through a massacre, interrupting the love between a soldier and a fisherman's daughter. The daughter survives, but the other survivor Taro- a soldier cut off from all communication- continues to serve the emperor for another thirty years. Tormented in his dreams by memories and his secret aspiration for eternal peace.
Taro is regularly 'inspected' by his former military inspector Yamada, who exploits the situation to entertain former Japanese officers, nostalgic of Imperial Japan, by luring visitors to the island through his War Veterans Association. The visitors are held captive and enrolled by Taro to serve in the army of the Great Emperor. For the sadistic pleasure of the former Japanese officers, Yamada organises "inspections" during which the new recruits must prove their devotion to the emperor by sacrificing their lives.
Many years later Shintaro, the son of the fisherman's daughter, finds himself on the island after searching for his father. He learns his father disappeared on the island just before the massacre. He contacts Yamada through the War Veterans Association, who agrees to take him and others to the island. But once they arrive he abandons them and puts Taro in charge. For Shintaro and his comrades this means forced enrolment, military drills and suffering. After months of torture Shintaro and the other captives start to accept Taro's twisted sense of reality. The training intensifies as Taro prepares the recruits to fight a mysterious enemy.

Cast
Seidula Moldakhanov as Taro
Mikhail Vodzumi as Shintaro
Anvar Kenjaev as Yamada

Influences
Based on the true story of Lieutenant Hiroo Onoda, a Japanese holdout who did not surrender until 1974. During his service, it has been estimated that he killed about thirty people, including American soldiers and local police militia.
Passage 8:
Revolt in the Big House
Revolt in the Big House is a 1958 American film noir directed by R. G. Springsteen and starring Gene Evans, Robert Blake and Timothy Carey.Portions of the film were shot on location at Folsom State Prison in California.Blacklisted screenwriter Daniel Lewis James was listed in the onscreen credits as Daniel Hyatt. In 1998 his credit was reinstated under his real name as the film's cowriter by the Writers Guild of America.

Plot
Cast
Gene Evans as Lou Gannon
Robert Blake as Rudy Hernandez
Timothy Carey as Ed 'Bugsy' Kyle
John Qualen as Doc
Sam Edwards as Al Carey
John Dennis as Red
Walter Barnes as Guard Capt. Starkey
Frank Richards as Jake
Emile Meyer as Warden
Arline Hunter as Girl (as Arlene Hunter)
Passage 9:
Big House Blues
Big House Blues is a 1947 Flippy short film.

External links
Big House Blues (1947) at IMDB
Big House Blues at the Big Cartoon Database
Passage 10:
The Boer War (film)
The Boer War is a 1914 film, directed by George Melford about the Second Boer War.

Cast
Edward Clisbee as General Lambert, retired
Jane Wolfe	as Mrs. Lambert
Marin Sais as Jane Lambert, their daughter
William Brunton as Lt. Jack Lambert, their son
Lawrence Peyton as Captain Doane
William H. West as Jaubert, a Boer general