Passage 1:
Toi et moi (Charles Aznavour song)
"Toi et Moi" (English translation: You and Me) is a song written in 1994 by Charles Aznavour, Jean-Pierre Bourtayre, and Jacques Revaux. It was originally released on Aznavour's highly successful 1994 CD, aptly titled Toi et Moi. In 1995, the English version titled You and Me, as well as the Spanish version Tú y Yo were released. In 2018 Charles Aznavour sang new version duo with russian singer Polina Gagarina.
Passage 2:
L'enfer et moi
France participated in the Eurovision Song Contest 2013 with the song "L'enfer et moi" written by Boris Bergman and David Salkin. The song was performed by Amandine Bourgeois. The French broadcaster France Télévisions in collaboration with the television channel France 3 internally selected the French entry for the 2013 contest in Malmö, Sweden. "L'enfer et moi" was officially announced by France 3 as the French entry on 22 January 2013 and later the song was presented to the public as the contest entry on 13 March 2013.
As a member of the "Big Five", France automatically qualified to compete in the final of the Eurovision Song Contest. Performing as the opening entry during the show in position 1, France placed twenty-third out of the 26 participating countries with 14 points.

Background
Prior to the 2013 Contest, France had participated in the Eurovision Song Contest fifty-five times since its debut as one of seven countries to take part in 1956. France first won the contest in 1958 with "Dors, mon amour" performed by André Claveau. In the 1960s, they won three times, with "Tom Pillibi" performed by Jacqueline Boyer in 1960, "Un premier amour" performed by Isabelle Aubret in 1962 and "Un jour, un enfant" performed by Frida Boccara, who won in 1969 in a four-way tie with the Netherlands, Spain and the United Kingdom. France's fifth victory came in 1977, when Marie Myriam won with the song "L'oiseau et l'enfant". France have also finished second four times, with Paule Desjardins in 1957, Catherine Ferry in 1976, Joëlle Ursull in 1990 and Amina in 1991, who lost out to Sweden's Carola in a tie-break. In the 21st century, France has had less success, only making the top ten three times, with Natasha St-Pier finishing fourth in 2001, Sandrine François finishing fifth in 2002 and Patricia Kaas finishing eighth in 2009. In 2012, the nation finished in twenty-second place with the song "Echo (You and I)" performed by Anggun.
The French national broadcaster, France Télévisions, broadcasts the event within France and delegates the selection of the nation's entry to the television channel France 3. France 3 confirmed that France would participate in the 2013 Eurovision Song Contest on 6 November 2012. The French broadcaster had used both national finals and internal selection to choose the French entry in the past. From 2008 to 2012, the broadcaster opted to internally select the French entry, a procedure that was continued in order to select the 2013 entry.

Before Eurovision
Internal selection
France 3 announced in late 2012 that the French entry for the 2013 Eurovision Song Contest would be selected internally. The organisation of the internal selection was headed by the newly appointed French Head of Delegation for the Eurovision Song Contest Frédéric Valencak. The French broadcaster requested proposals from record companies, music publishers, artist managers and artists themselves and shortlisted 18 entries from the received submissions to advance to the next stage, which involved a fourteen-member selection committee consisting of representatives of France Télévisions and music industry professionals. The selection committee consisted of:

On 22 January 2013, France 3 announced that the French entry for the Eurovision Song Contest 2013 would be "L'enfer et moi" performed by Amandine Bourgeois. The song was written by Boris Bergman and David Salkin. The selection committee considered five entries following a blind audio listening before finalising their decision internally in early 2013. The entry was released on 13 March 2013 via the streaming service Spotify, and was formally presented to the public on 14 March 2013 during the France 5 programme C à vous, hosted by Alessandra Sublet.

At Eurovision
According to Eurovision rules, all nations with the exceptions of the host country and the "Big Five" (France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom) are required to qualify from one of two semi-finals in order to compete for the final; the top ten countries from each semi-final progress to the final. As a member of the "Big 5", France automatically qualified to compete in the final on 18 May 2013. In addition to their participation in the final, France is also required to broadcast and vote in one of the two semi-finals. During the semi-final allocation draw on 17 January 2013, France was assigned to broadcast and vote in the second semi-final on 16 May 2013.In France, the two semi-finals was broadcast on France Ô with commentary by Audrey Chauveau and Bruno Berberes, while the final was broadcast on France 3 with commentary by Cyril Féraud and Mireille Dumas. The French spokesperson, who announced the French votes during the final, was Marine Vignes.

Final
Amandine Bourgeois took part in technical rehearsals on 12 and 15 May, followed by dress rehearsals on 17 and 18 May. This included the jury final on 17 May where the professional juries of each country watched and voted on the competing entries. After technical rehearsals were held on 15 May, the "Big 5" countries and host nation Denmark held a press conference. As part of this press conference, the artists took part in a draw to determine which half of the grand final they would subsequently participate in. France was drawn to compete in the first half. Following the conclusion of the second semi-final, the shows' producers decided upon the running order of the final. The running order for the semi-finals and final was decided by the shows' producers rather than through another draw, so that similar songs were not placed next to each other. France was subsequently placed to open the show and perform in position 1, before the entry from Lithuania.The French performance featured Amandine Bourgeois on stage wearing a grey dress and black high heels designed by French designer Jean-Claude Jitrois and performing the song at a microphone stand. The stage colours were predominately red with red, yellow and orange lighting and the stage projections displayed flames and steam on a black background. About the performance and song, France 3 entertainment director Marie Claire Mezerette stated: "In this case simplicity is the key. It is a simple, but still powerful rock love song. We don't need to make it complicated. She wants to express how angry she is with what happened in that love story, Amandine is singing about." Amandine Bourgeois was joined on stage by three backing vocalists: Fanny Llado, Guillaume Eyango and Judith Flessel-Toto. France placed twenty-third in the final, scoring 23 points.

Voting
Voting during the three shows consisted of 50 percent public televoting and 50 percent from a jury deliberation. The jury consisted of five music industry professionals who were citizens of the country they represent, with their names published before the contest to ensure transparency. This jury was asked to judge each contestant based on: vocal capacity; the stage performance; the song's composition and originality; and the overall impression by the act. In addition, no member of a national jury could be related in any way to any of the competing acts in such a way that they cannot vote impartially and independently. The individual rankings of each jury member were released shortly after the grand final.
Following the release of the full split voting by the EBU after the conclusion of the competition, it was revealed that France had placed twenty-fifth with the public televote and twelfth with the jury vote. In the public vote, France received an average rank of 21.68 and in the jury vote the nation received an average rank of 10.95.
Below is a breakdown of points awarded to France and awarded by France in the second semi-final and grand final of the contest, and the breakdown of the jury voting and televoting conducted during the two shows:

Points awarded to France
Points awarded by France
Passage 3:
Et moi, et moi, et moi
"Et moi, et moi, et moi" is the debut single by French singer-songwriter Jacques Dutronc, released in 1966. It is featured on his self-titled debut album.

Composition
The record came about as the result of rivalry between the two artistic directors at Disques Vogue, Christian Fechner and Jacques Wolfsohn. According to legend, Wolfsohn, who had previously promoted Françoise Hardy, used to amuse himself by taking pot-shots at Fechner's Revox tape-machine with a rifle from his office window. Wolfsohn wanted to better Fechner's success with the hippy-influenced singer-songwriter Antoine. He asked Jacques Dutronc, at that time his assistant and a songwriter at Vogue, and the novelist Jacques Lanzmann to work on songs for a rival act, a singer called Benjamin. Benjamin released an EP in 1966, featuring songs written with Dutronc and a Lanzmann-Dutronc composition, "Cheveux longs" (Long Hair). However, Wolfsohn was disappointed by Benjamin's recording of "Et moi, et moi, moi". A second version was recorded, with Dutronc's former bandmate Hadi Kalafate on vocals. Wolfsohn then asked Dutronc if he would be interested in recording his own version.The words to "Et moi, et moi et moi" have been described as sending up the socially conscious but "self-involved" lyrical style of Antoine, with Lanzmann and Dutronc perhaps suggesting doubt as to its sincerity. In the song, Dutronc alternates between thinking about people in different places around the world and thinking about himself. The opening of the song is Sept cent millions de chinois/Et moi, et moi, et moi ("Seven hundred million Chinese people/And then there's me"). According to Lanzmann, the song is "about complete selfishness...all the terrible things that go on a stone's-throw away, that touch us but that, nevertheless, do not prevent us from continuing to live and enjoy the evening's barbecue". Musically, the song's fuzzy, choppy guitar line bears the influence of the Pretty Things and the Kinks.

Release and promotion
"Et moi, et moi, et moi" was released as the lead track on a four-track EP (EPL. 8461) by Vogue in France in August 1966. In the UK and The Netherlands, it was released as a 2-track 7" single, with "Mini, mini, mini" as the b-side. In Germany, "Mini, mini, mini" was released as an a-side, backed with "Et moi, et moi, et moi". For the Italian market, an Italian-language version titled "Il Mundo Va Cosi" was recorded. A version in Japanese was also attempted but was not released.Dutronc performed "Et moi, et moi, et moi" on the French television show Le palmarès des chansons, broadcast on Channel One by the Office de Radiodiffusion Télévision Française on 29 September 1966. He also toured to promote the single.

Reception
"Et moi, et moi, et moi" reached number 2 in the French singles chart in September 1966 and number 7 in the Swiss chart the following month. It also gained popularity on the British mod scene where, despite the language barrier, it was appreciated as satirising the folk revival movement.Cultural historian Larry Portis describes the arrival of Dutronc on the French music scene, along with that of Michel Polnareff at around the same time, as representing "the first French rock music that can be considered a musically competent and non-imitative incorporation of African-American and African-American-British influences". For Portis, Dutronc marks a break with the literary tradition of French chanson in his creative use of the sounds, rather than just the syntax, of the language."Et moi, et moi, et moi" is featured in the coffee table book 1001 Songs You Must Hear Before You Die, published in 2010. In 2011, it was included in a series of 41 articles on songs that "define France", published in Le Figaro.

Cover versions
The British band Mungo Jerry reached number 3 in the UK singles chart in 1973 with an English-language reinterpretation of "Et moi, et moi, et moi" titled "Alright, Alright, Alright". This version is credited to Lanzmann, Dutronc and Joe Strange. It features on Mungo Jerry's 1974 album Long Legged Woman Dressed In Black.
The original version of the song was covered in 1988 by the Spanish synth-pop artist Captain B Hardt. A recording of the song also appears on the 1989 compilation I Can't Come by punk band the Snivelling Shits. Yo La Tengo bassist James McNew, under his solo moniker Dump, released a cover of the song on his 1997 album A Plea for Tenderness. In 2002, Bruno Blum included a parody of the song, titled "Et moi, et moi etc", on his album Think Différent (sic). In July 2013, the French singer-songwriter -M- performed a version of "Et moi, et moi, et moi" for the website of Le Figaro.Israeli singer-songwriter Ariel Zilber recorded a Hebrew version of the song, entitled Milyard Sinim ("One Billion Chinese") in 1988. Translated by Yehonatan Gefen, the Hebrew text is a fairly accurate reflection of the French, and the chorus is exact. Loosely retranslated into English: "One billion Chinese are alive / And me, who am I, what am I? / With my private life / And my tooth that's been loose for four days / I think about it and then I forget / Because that's how life is" ("J'y pense et puis j'oublie / C'est la vie c'est la vie").

Track listing
Words by Jacques Lanzmann and music by Jacques Dutronc.

Side A
"Et moi, et moi, et moi" – 2:52
"J'ai mis un tigre dans ma guitare" – 2:21

Side B
"Mini, mini, mini" – 1:54
"Les gens sont fous, les temps sont flous" – 3:03

Personnel
Jacques Dutronc : voice, guitar, percussion
Hadi Kalafate : bass, percussion
Alain Le Govic (alias Alain Chamfort) : piano, organ
Jean-Pierre Alarcen : guitar
Jacques Pasut : rhythm guitar
Michel Pelay : drums
Passage 4:
Juan Carlos Lecompte
Juan Carlos Lecompte Pérez is a Colombian author who was married to Ingrid Betancourt, a politician kidnapped by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC). After her public release in Operation Jaque they divorced. In January 2010 he published a book about their break-up, it is called "Ingrid et moi".
Passage 5:
L'Amour et moi
"L'Amour et moi" is Jenifer Bartoli's second single from her fifth album L'Amour et moi on which it is the fifth track. It was released on September 29, 2012 in Francophone countries and achieved success in France and Belgium (Wallonia).

Charts
Passage 6:
Jacques Dutronc
Jacques Dutronc (born 28 April 1943) is a French singer, songwriter, guitarist, composer, and actor. Some of Dutronc's best-known hits include "Il est cinq heures, Paris s'éveille" (which AllMusic has called "his finest hour"), "Le Responsable", and "Les Cactus".
Dutronc played guitar in the rock group El Toro et les Cyclones. He wrote successful songs for singer Françoise Hardy in the 1960s before moving on to pursue a successful solo career. His music incorporated traditional French pop and French rock as well as styles such as psychedelic and garage rock. He was also very important in the Yéyé music movement and has been a longtime songwriting collaborator with Jacques Lanzmann. According to AllMusic, Dutronc is "one of the most popular performers in the French-speaking world", although he "remains little known in English speaking territories" aside from a cult following in the UK.He later branched out into film acting, starting in 1973. He earned a César Award for Best Actor for the leading role in Van Gogh, which was directed by Maurice Pialat. He married Hardy in 1981 and together they have a son, guitarist Thomas Dutronc (born 1973); the couple separated in 1988.

Early life
Jacques Dutronc was born on 28 April 1943 at 67 Rue de Provence in the 9th arrondissement of Paris, the home of his parents, Pierre and Madeleine. His father was a manager for the state-run Office of Coal Distribution. Jacques was educated at Rocroy-Saint-Léon elementary school (now a Lycée), the École de la Rue Blanche (now a drama school) and then at the École Professionnelle de Dessin Industriel, where he studied graphic design from 1959.

Career
1960s
In 1960, Dutronc formed a band with himself as guitarist, schoolfriend Hadi Kalafate as bassist, Charlot Bénaroch as drummer (later replaced with André Crudot) and Daniel Dray as singer. They auditioned in 1961 for Jacques Wolfsohn, an artistic director at Disques Vogue, who signed them and gave them the name El Toro et les Cyclones. The group released two singles, "L'Oncle John" and "Le Vagabond", but disbanded when Dutronc was obliged to undertake military service.After being discharged from the army in 1963, Dutronc briefly played guitar in Eddy Mitchell's backing band and was also given a job at Vogue as Jacques Wolfsohn's assistant. In this capacity, he co-wrote songs for artists such as ZouZou, Cléo and Françoise Hardy.
Wolfsohn asked Dutronc to work with Jacques Lanzmann, a novelist and editor of Lui magazine, to create songs for a beatnik singer called Benjamin. Benjamin released an EP in 1966, featuring songs written with Dutronc and a Lanzmann-Dutronc composition, "Cheveux longs" (Long Hair). However, Wolfsohn was disappointed by Benjamin's recording of a song titled "Et moi, et moi, et moi". A second version was recorded, with Dutronc's former bandmate Hadi Kalafate on vocals. Wolfsohn then asked Dutronc if he would be interested in recording his own version. The single reached number 2 in the French charts in September 1966.Cultural historian Larry Portis describes the arrival of Dutronc on the French music scene, along with that of Michel Polnareff at around the same time, as representing "the first French rock music that can be considered a musically competent and non-imitative incorporation of African-American and African-American-British influences". For Portis, Dutronc marks a break with the literary tradition of French chanson in his creative use of the sounds, rather than just the syntax, of the language.Dutronc's self-titled debut album, released at the end of 1966, sold over a million copies and was awarded a special Grand Prix du Disque by the Académie Charles Cros, in memoriam of one of its founders. A second single, "Les play boys", spent six weeks at number one and sold 600,000 copies.Dutronc was one of the most commercially successful French music stars of the late 1960s and early 1970s. During that period, he released seven hit albums and more than 20 singles, including two further number ones: "J'aime les filles" in 1967 and "Il est cinq heures, Paris s'éveille" in 1968.According to music critic Mark Deming: "Dutronc's early hits were rough but clever exercises in European garage rock...like Dutronc's role models Bob Dylan and Ray Davies, he could write melodies strong enough to work even without their excellent lyrics, and his band had more than enough energy to make them fly (and the imagination to move with the musical times as psychedelia and hard rock entered the picture at the end of the decade)".

1970s
Most of Dutronc's songs up to 1975 were written with Jacques Lanzmann, with only two written solely by Dutronc. Lanzmann's wife Anne Ségalen is also credited on some songs. Dutronc wrote three songs with comic-book writer Fred, whose stories he also narrated for commercial release in 1970. Two songs were written in 1971 by Lanzmann, Franck Harvel and the composer Jean-Pierre Bourtayre, for a TV adaptation of Arsène Lupin. Co-writing credits on Dutronc's self-titled 1975 album are split between Lanzmann, Serge Gainsbourg and Jean-Loup Dabadie.
In 1973, "Et moi, et moi, et moi" was adapted with English lyrics as "Alright Alright Alright" and became a UK No. 3 hit for the group Mungo Jerry.
Also in 1973, Dutronc began a second career as an actor in the film Antoine et Sébastien, directed by Jean-Marie Périer. Dutronc's second film, That Most Important Thing: Love, directed by Andrzej Zulawski, was a major box-office hit in France. In the following years, Dutronc devoted most of his energies toward his acting career, appearing in films directed by Jean-Luc Godard, Claude Lelouch and Maurice Pialat. In 1977, he was nominated for the César Award for best supporting actor, for his role in Claude Sautet's Mado. Steven Spielberg reportedly considered Dutronc to be the best French actor of his generation, and had the role of René Belloq in Raiders of the Lost Ark written with him in mind. Dutronc was not given the role, however, because it transpired that his English was not adequate.

1980s
In 1980, Dutronc began work on a new album under the direction of Jacques Wolfsohn, now an executive at Gaumont Musique. Wolfsohn proposed that Dutronc write with both Jacques Lanzmann and Serge Gainsbourg. During recording, Wolfsohn proposed to Lanzmann and Gainsbourg that they each work on alternative lyrics to go with one of Dutronc's instrumental demos. Lanzmann objected to being placed in competition against another writer, and dropped out of the project. The resulting album, Guerre et pets ("War and Farts" - a play on the title of Tolstoy's novel), consequently only includes two Lanzmann-Dutronc compositions, and is mainly written by Dutronc and Gainsbourg. The album's lead single, "L'hymne à l'amour", received little airplay because its lyric consists primarily of racial epithets (the opening line, roughly translated, is "gook, wog, towel-head, yid"), and the album was only a moderate commercial success. The follow-up, 1982's C'est pas du bronze, was written with Anne Ségalen, by now divorced from Jacques Lanzmann, and was released to a frosty critical reception.Dutronc's acting career continued during the 1980s, and he appeared in films such as Malevil and Barbet Schroeder's Tricheurs. In 1987, he released a further album, C.Q.F.Dutronc. Most of the songs were written by Dutronc without a partner, although he collaborated with Etienne Daho on one track and with Jean-François Bernardini of the Corsican folk group I Muvrini on another.

1990s
In 1992, Dutronc was awarded the César for Best Actor for the title role in Maurice Pialat's biopic Van Gogh. Critic Christopher Null commented that Dutronc "manages to embody the obvious manic depression from Van Gogh's later years, all exuding from his scraggly face, sunken eyes, and bony frame... the searing Dutronc is the real reason to sit through the film".In November 1992, Dutronc played three comeback concerts at the Casino de Paris, highlights from which were released as a film, directed by Jean-Marie Périer and as a live album, Dutronc au Casino. At around this time, Dutronc began work on a new studio album, Brèves rencontres, but work progressed slowly and it was not released until 1995.During the 1990s, Dutronc appeared in two films by Patrick Grandperret and was nominated for a César Award for best supporting actor in 1999, for his role in Nicole Garcia's Place Vendôme.

21st century
Dutronc starred in Claude Chabrol's 2000 film Merci pour le chocolat. He was awarded the Best Actor prize at the 2001 Marrakech International Film Festival and was nominated for the César Award for best actor for his role in Jean-Pierre Améris' C'est la vie. In 2002, he starred in Michel Blanc's Summer Things.
In 2003, Dutronc reunited with Jacques Lanzmann for Madame l'existence, an album described by rock critic Christophe Conte as "surpassing, without much apparent effort, everything that [Dutronc] has created in the last two decades".In 2005, Dutronc was awarded an Honorary César. Since then, he has appeared in films by directors including Gabriel Aghion and Alain Corneau.
In 2010, Dutronc toured for the first time in 17 years, and released recordings from the tour as a live album and DVD, Et vous, et vous, et vous.Dutronc's 41st film, Les Francis, was released in 2014.In November 2014, Dutronc performed a series of concerts with Eddy Mitchell and Johnny Hallyday at Paris Bercy, under the name "Les vieilles canailles" ("The Old Gits"). It was reported that, following these performances, Dutronc intended to begin recording a new album with his son Thomas.
Said album, Dutronc and Dutronc, was released November 4th 2022 and features 13 songs originally released by Jacques Dutronc during his early career. Father and son rearranged the songs and both sing on the album.

Reputation and influence
According to a 1979 editorial in the French magazine Rock & Folk, Dutronc is "the one singer who is so closely identified with the 1960s that it has become impossible to talk about them without talking about him". In 1991, "Il est cinq heures, Paris s'éveille" was voted the best French-language single of all time in a poll of music critics organised by Le Nouvel Observateur for a TV special broadcast on Antenne 2, beating Jacques Brel's "Ne me quitte pas" into second place.Dutronc's songs have been covered by Matthieu Chedid, Vanessa Paradis, Mungo Jerry, Etienne Daho, Sylvie Vartan, Miles Kane, the Divine Comedy, Serge Gainsbourg, Black Lips, Zine, the Last Shadow Puppets among others. Dutronc is also mentioned in the lyrics of the Cornershop song "Brimful of Asha".In 2015, a tribute album was released by Columbia Records with various artists interpreting songs by Jacques Dutronc. The 13-track album titled Joyeux anniversaire M'sieur Dutronc contained performances by artists Julien Doré, Gaëtan Roussel, Zaz, Joeystarr, Nathy (Tüxo), BAGARRE, Thomas Dutronc, Annie Cordy, the duo Brigitte, Miossec, Francis Cabrel, Francine Massiani, Tété and Camélia Jordana in addition to "L'opportuniste" sung by Jacques Dutronc with Nicola Sirkis. The album charted in France and Belgium.

Personal life
Dutronc began a relationship with Vogue label-mate Françoise Hardy in 1967. In 1973, they had a son, Thomas, who grew up to become a successful jazz and pop musician. In 1981, they were married, "for tax reasons", according to Hardy. In 1998, Jacques began a relationship with a stylist whom he had met on the set of the film Place Vendôme. Dutronc and Hardy are now separated, but remain married and see each other regularly.He currently lives near the town of Monticello, Corsica.In 2015, Dutronc revealed he had a brief relationship with Romy Schneider that lasted as long as they were shooting the film That Most Important Thing: Love.

Discography
Studio albums
Other notable singles
Live albums
Selected filmography
See also
French pop
French rock
Yé-yé
Jacques Lanzmann

Bibliography
Michel Leydier (2010). Jacques Dutronc: La Bio. Paris: Seuil. ISBN 978-2-02-101287-3
Passage 7:
Sébastien Schuller
Sébastien Schuller (born 26 August 1970) is a French singer, songwriter and film score composer living in Philadelphia. His film scores include Toi et Moi , Notre univers impitoyable, Un Jour d'Été, One O One, High Society,The Night Eats the World .

Discography
1999: Londres (EP, Warner Music France)
2002: Weeping Willow (EP, EMI Music France/Capitol Records)
2005: Happiness (LP, Catalogue Records/Wagram Music)
2005: Harmony (EP, Catalogue Records/Wagram Music)
2009: Evenfall (LP, PIAS France)
2014: Heat Wave (LP, self-produced)
2023: Introspection (LP, self-produced)

External links
Official website 
Sébastien Schuller at IMDb
Sébastien Schuller discography at MusicBrainz
Sébastien Schuller discography at Discogs
Passage 8:
Alexis Martin (actor)
Alexis Martin (born June 9, 1964, in Montreal, Quebec) is a Canadian actor and writer. A 1986 graduate of the Conservatoire d'art dramatique de Montréal, he has acted in film, television and stage productions, and has written both theatrical plays and film screenplays.He was a Genie Award nominee for Best Supporting Actor at the 31st Genie Awards in 2010 for Route 132, and for Best Adapted Screenplay at the 20th Genie Awards in 1999 for Matroni et moi. His play Bureaux was shortlisted for the Governor General's Award for French-language drama at the 2004 Governor General's Awards.

Filmography
Film
Cordélia - 1980
The Party (Le Party) - 1990
Cosmos - 1996
Karmina - 1996
The Revenge of the Woman in Black (La vengeance de la femme en noir) - 1997
Nô - 1998
August 32nd on Earth (Un 32 août sur terre) - 1998
Matroni and Me (Matroni et moi) - 1999
Les Boys III - 2001
The Collector (Le Collectionneur) - 2002
CQ2 (Seek You Too) - 2004
Audition (L'Audition) - 2005
Saint Martyrs of the Damned (Saints-Martyrs-des-Damnés) - 2005
A Sunday in Kigali (Un dimanche à Kigali) - 2006
Bluff - 2007
Le Banquet - 2008
Babine - 2008
Route 132 - 2010
Before My Heart Falls (Avant que mon cœur bascule) - 2012
My Internship in Canada (Guibord s'en va-t-en guerre) - 2015
Bad Seeds (Les mauvaises herbes) - 2016
9 (9, le film) - 2016
Hochelaga, Land of Souls (Hochelaga, Terre des âmes) - 2017
We Are Gold (Nous sommes Gold) - 2019
There Are No False Undertakings (Il n'y a pas de faux métier) - 2020

Television
L'Amour avec un Grand A
Radio Enfer
Sous le signe du lion
Fortier
Trauma
Les Parent

Plays
Oreille, tigre et bruit
Matroni et moi
L'An de Grâce
Bureaux
L'Apprentissage des marais
Révolutions
Passage 9:
Mary Christy
Marie Ruggeri (born Maria Christina Ruggeri, 21 July 1952 in Déifferdeng), professionally known as Mary Christy, frequently credited as Mary Cristy, is a Luxembourgish singer and actress.
Ruggeri grew up in Mamer, where her father worked as an entrepreneur. In the 1960s she was a child singer in Luxembourg and Germany where she appeared under the pseudonyms Marie Tina and Marie Christina.
In the early 1970s, she moved to Paris where she performed under the name Mary Christy, and participated in the rock opera La Révolution Française by Schönberg at the Palais des Sports in Paris.
She is best known for representing Monaco in the Eurovision Song Contest 1976 with the song "Toi, la musique et moi". Her entry ranked 3rd out of 18 participants, receiving 93 points, including maximum 12 points from her native Luxembourg.
Passage 10:
Gertrude of Bavaria
Gertrude of Bavaria (Danish and German: Gertrud; 1152/55–1197) was Duchess of Swabia as the spouse of Duke Frederick IV, and Queen of Denmark as the spouse of King Canute VI.
Gertrude was born to Henry the Lion of Bavaria and Saxony and Clementia of Zähringen in either 1152 or 1155. She was married to Frederick IV, Duke of Swabia, in 1166, and became a widow in 1167. In 1171 she was engaged and in February 1177 married to Canute of Denmark in Lund. The couple lived the first years in Skåne. On 12 May 1182, they became king and queen. She did not have any children. During her second marriage, she chose to live in chastity and celibacy with her husband. Arnold of Lübeck remarked of their marriage, that her spouse was: "The most chaste one, living thus his days with his chaste spouse" in eternal chastity.