Passage 1:
Marie of Évreux
Marie d'Évreux (1303 – October 31, 1335) was the eldest child of Louis d'Évreux and his wife Margaret of Artois. She was a member of the House of Capet.
She was Duchess of Brabant by her marriage to John III, Duke of Brabant. Her paternal grandmother being Marie of Brabant, she was a great-granddaughter of Henry III, Duke of Brabant and so, her husband's second cousin.
Marie was the eldest of five children born to her parents. Marie's younger siblings included: Charles d'Évreux; Lord of Étampes, Philip III of Navarre; husband of Joan II of Navarre, and Jeanne d'Évreux; Queen of France by her marriage to Charles IV of France.

Marriage
In 1311, Marie married John III, Duke of Brabant as his father's gesture of rapprochement with France.
They had six children:

Joanna, Duchess of Brabant (1322–1406)
Margaret of Brabant (February 9, 1323 – 1368), married at Saint-Quentin on June 6, 1347 Louis II of Flanders
Marie of Brabant (1325 – March 1, 1399), Lady of Turnhout, married at Tervuren on July 1, 1347 Reginald III of Guelders
John (1327–1335/36)
Henri (d. October 29, 1349)
Godfrey (d. aft. February 3, 1352)Marie's daughter Joanna was the first woman to be Duchess of Brabant in her own right.
Marie died October 31, 1335, aged thirty-one or thirty-two.

Genealogy
Passage 2:
Hannah Arnold
Hannah Arnold may refer to:

Hannah Arnold (née Waterman) (c.1705–1758), mother of Benedict Arnold
Hannah Arnold (beauty queen) (born 1996), Filipino-Australian model and beauty pageant titleholder
Passage 3:
Beatrice of Luxembourg
Beatrice of Luxembourg (Hungarian: Luxemburgi Beatrix; 1305 – 11 November 1319), was by birth member of the House of Luxembourg and by marriage Queen of Hungary.
She was the youngest child of Henry VII, Holy Roman Emperor and his wife, Margaret of Brabant. Her two siblings were John of Luxembourg and Marie of Luxembourg, Queen of France.

Life
At the time of his death (1313), Emperor Henry VII initiated the negotiations for a marriage between Beatrice and Charles, Duke of Calabria, son and heir of King Robert of Naples, and also planned to marry again (his wife was already dead in 1311) with Catherine of Habsburg. Beatrice was called by her father to Italy, where she arrived with her paternal grandmother, Beatrice d'Avesnes. The marriage plans with the Duke of Calabria failed, and the Emperor began negotiations for a marriage with Prince Peter of Sicily, eldest son and heir of King Frederick III; however, the current political conflicts between the Holy Roman Empire and the Kingdom of Sicily soon ended this planned betrothal too.
When King Charles I of Hungary (whose first wife Maria of Bytom, had died in 1317) decided to marry again, he sent to the Kingdom of Bohemia two representants, Thomas Szécsényi and Simon Kacsics, in addition to an interpreter, a bourgeois from Szoprońskim called Stephen, in order to find a bride. King John called his two sisters to his court; at that moment, Marie resided in St. Marienthal Abbey and Beatrice remained in Italy. Both princesses arrived to Prague on 20 June 1318, and three days later, the Hungarian envoys met both girls at the monastery of Zbraslav, where the Bohemian king gave them the opportunity to choose between them their future queen. After a calculated assessment of both personal and physical attitudes, they chose Beatrice. Soon after, the formal engagement took place, and the young bride parted with the Hungarian entourage to her new home. On the border of the Kingdom of Hungary she was officially welcomed by Charles I's messengers. Beatrice and Charles I married at the Octave of Saint Martin (between 12 and 17 November) and she was crowned Queen of Hungary in the ceremony.
Beatrice became pregnant in 1319. In November, she went into labour but died while giving birth. The child was stillborn. She was buried at Nagyvárad Cathedral.
Passage 4:
Matilda of Brabant, Countess of Artois
Matilda of Brabant (14 June 1224 – 29 September 1288) was the eldest daughter of Henry II, Duke of Brabant and his first wife Marie of Hohenstaufen.

Marriages and children
On 14 June 1237, which was her 13th birthday, Matilda married her first husband Robert I of Artois. Robert was the son of Louis VIII of France and Blanche of Castile. They had:

Blanche of Artois (1248 – 2 May 1302). Married first Henry I of Navarre and secondly Edmund Crouchback, 1st Earl of Lancaster.
Robert II, Count of Artois (1250 – 11 July 1302 at the Battle of the Golden Spurs).On 8 February 1250, Robert I was killed while participating in the Seventh Crusade.  On 16 January 1255, Matilda married her second husband Guy III, Count of Saint-Pol. He was a younger son of Hugh I, Count of Blois and Mary, Countess of Blois. They had:

Hugh II, Count of Blois (died 1307), Count of Saint Pol and later Count of Blois
Guy IV, Count of Saint-Pol (died 1317), Count of Saint Pol
Jacques I of Leuze-Châtillon (died 11 July 1302 at the Battle of the Golden Spurs), first of the lords of Leuze, married Catherine de Condé and had issue; his descendants brought Condé, Carency, etc. into the House of Bourbon.
Beatrix (died 1304), married John I of Brienne, Count of Eu
Jeanne, married Guillaume III de Chauvigny, Lord of Châteauroux
Gertrude, married Florent, Lord of Mechelen (French: Malines).
Passage 5:
Marie of Brabant, Countess of Savoy
Marie of Brabant (1277/80–1338), was a Countess Consort of Savoy by marriage to Amadeus V, Count of Savoy. She was the daughter of John I, Duke of Brabant and Margaret of Flanders.

Life
She was engaged to Amadeus after the death of her father. The marriage was arranged when Savoy joined Brabant in an alliance with France against England. A Papal dispensation was obtained in October 1297. The wedding took place at the Château de Chambéry in 1298. 
As countess of Savoy, Marie of Brabant appears to have brought with her a certain cultural influence from Brabant, and brought with her several artisans which influenced the court of Savoy, such as her tailor Colin de Brabant. The marriage resulted in close ties between Savoy and Brabant, and gave Brabant closer access to Italy. Marie appears to have had some influence at court, playing a role as diplomat and political adviser.In 1308, her brother-in-law was elected King in Germany. When her sister and brother-in-law travelled to Italy in 1310, they visited Maria at the court of Savoy in Geneva on their way to Rome. 
In 1323, she became a widow. Her spouse was succeeded by Maria's stepson. The exact date of her death is unknown.

Issue
Maria of Savoy
Catherine of Savoy, d. 1336, married to Leopold I (duke of Austria and Styria)
Anna of Savoy, d. 1359, married to Byzantine Emperor Andronikos III Palaiologos
Beatrice of Savoy (1310–1331), married in 1327 to Henry VI, Duke of Carinthia, count of Tirol
Passage 6:
Hubba bint Hulail
Hubba bint Hulail (Arabic: حبة بنت هليل) was the grandmother of Hashim ibn 'Abd Manaf, thus the great-great-great-grandmother of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.

Biography
Hubbah was the daughter of Hulail ibn Hubshiyyah ibn Salul ibn Ka’b ibn Amr al-Khuza’i of Banu Khuza'a who was the trustee and guardian of the Ka‘bah (Arabic: كَـعْـبَـة, 'Cube'). She married Qusai ibn Kilab and after her father died, the keys of the Kaaba were committed to her. Qusai, according to Hulail's will, had the trusteeship of the Kaaba after him.
Hubbah never gave up ambitious hopes for the line of her favourite son Abd Manaf. Her two favourite grandsons were the twin sons Amr and Abd Shams, of ‘Ātikah bint Murrah. Hubbah hoped that the opportunities missed by Abd Manaf would be made up for in these grandsons, especially Amr, who seemed much more suitable for the role than any of the sons of Abd al-Dar. He was dear to the ‘ayn (Arabic: عـيـن, eye) of his grandmother Hubbah.

Family
Qusai ibn Kilab had four sons by Hubbah: Abd-al-Dar ibn Qusai dedicated to his house, Abdu’l Qusayy dedicated to himself, Abd-al-Uzza ibn Qusai to his goddess (Al-‘Uzzá) and Abd Manaf ibn Qusai to the idol revered by Hubbah. They also had two daughters, Takhmur and Barrah. Abd Manaf's real name was 'Mughirah', and he also had the nickname 'al-Qamar' (the Moon) because he was handsome.
Hubbah was related to Muhammad in more than one way. Firstly, she was the great-great-grandmother of his father Abdullah. She was also the great-grandmother of Umm Habib and Abdul-Uzza, respectively the maternal grandmother and grandfather of Muhammad's mother Aminah.

Family tree
* indicates that the marriage order is disputed
Note that direct lineage is marked in bold.

See also
Family tree of Muhammad
List of notable Hijazis
Passage 7:
Margaret of France, Queen of England
Margaret of France (c. 1279 – 14 February 1318) was Queen of England as the second wife of King Edward I. She was a daughter of Philip III of France and Maria of Brabant.

Childhood
Margaret was the daughter of King Philip III of France and his second wife, Maria of Brabant. Margaret was only six years old when her father died. She grew up under guidance of her mother, and also of Queen Joan I of Navarre, the wife of her half-brother, King Philip IV.

Marriage negotiations
The death of his beloved first wife, Eleanor of Castile, in 1290, left King Edward I of England grief-stricken. He was at the time at war with France and Scotland. He and Eleanor had only one surviving son, Edward, and so the king was anxious to remarry to have more sons. In summer of 1291, Edward betrothed his son to Blanche, half-sister to Margaret and Philip IV, in order to achieve peace with France. However, having been told of Blanche's renowned beauty, Edward decided to have his son's bride for his own and sent emissaries to France. Philip IV agreed to have Blanche marry Edward on the conditions that a truce would be concluded between the two countries, and that Edward would give up the province of Gascony.
Edward agreed, and sent his brother Edmund Crouchback, Earl of Lancaster, to fetch the new bride. Edward had been deceived, for Blanche was to be married to Rudolph, the eldest son of King Albert I of Germany. Instead, Philip IV offered her younger sister Margaret to marry Edward (then 55). Upon hearing this, Edward declared war on France, refusing to marry Margaret. After five years, a truce was agreed upon under the influence of Pope Boniface VIII. A series of treaties in the first half of 1299 provided terms for a double marriage: Edward I would marry Margaret and his son would marry Isabella, Philip IV's only surviving daughter. Additionally, the English monarchy would regain the key territory of Guyenne and receive £15,000 owed to Margaret as well as the return of Eleanor of Castile's lands in Ponthieu and Montreuil as a dower first for Margaret and then Isabella.

Queenship
Edward was then 60 years old, at least 40 years older than his bride. The wedding took place at Canterbury on 10 September 1299. Margaret was never crowned due to financial constraints, being the first uncrowned queen since the Conquest. This in no way lessened her dignity as the king's wife, however, for she used the royal title in her letters and documents, and appeared publicly wearing a crown even though she had not received one during a formal rite of investiture.Edward soon returned to the Scottish border to continue his campaigns and left Margaret in London, but she had become pregnant quickly after the wedding. After several months, bored and lonely, the young queen decided to join her husband. Nothing could have pleased the king more, for Margaret's actions reminded him of his first wife Eleanor, who had had two of her sixteen children abroad. In less than a year Margaret gave birth to a son, Thomas, who was named after Thomas Becket, since she had prayed to him during her pregnancy. The next year she gave birth to another son, Edmund.
Many who fell under the king's wrath were saved from too stern a punishment by the queen's influence over her husband, and the statement, Pardoned solely on the intercession of our dearest consort, queen Margaret of England, appears. In 1305, the young queen acted as a mediator between her step-son and husband, reconciling the heir apparent to his aging father, and calming her husband's wrath. She and her stepson, who was only two years younger than she, also became fond of each other: he once made her a gift of an expensive ruby and gold ring, and she on one occasion rescued many of the prince's friends from the wrath of the king.
Margaret favoured the Franciscan order and was a benefactress of a new foundation at Newgate. She employed the minstrel Guy de Psaltery and both she and her husband liked to play chess. The mismatched couple were blissfully happy. When her sister Blanche died in 1305, Edward ordered full court mourning to please his wife. He had realised the wife he had gained was "a pearl of great price" as Margaret was respected for her beauty, virtue, and piety. The same year Margaret gave birth to a girl, Eleanor, named in honour of Edward's first wife, a choice which surprised many, and showed Margaret's unjealous nature.
In 1307, when Edward went on summer campaign to Scotland, Margaret accompanied him. Edward died in Burgh by Sands.

Widowhood
Margaret never remarried after Edward's death in 1307, despite being only 26 when widowed. She was alleged to have stated that, "when Edward died, all men died for me".
Margaret was not pleased when Edward II elevated Piers Gaveston to become Earl of Cornwall upon his father's death, since the title had been meant for one of her own sons. She attended the new king's wedding to her half-niece Isabella, and a silver casket was made with both their arms. After Isabella's coronation, Margaret retired to Marlborough Castle (which was by this time a dower house), but she stayed in touch with the new queen and with her half-brother Philip IV by letter during the confusing times leading up to Gaveston's death in 1312. Margaret, too, was a victim of Gaveston's influence over her stepson. Edward II gave several of her dower lands to the favourite, including Berkhamsted Castle. In May 1308, an anonymous informer reported that Margaret had provided £40,000 along with Philip IV to support the English barons against Gaveston. Due to this action, Gaveston was briefly exiled and Margaret remained fairly unmolested by the upstart until his death in June 1312.
She was present at the birth of Edward III in November 1312.
On 14 February 1318 she died in her castle at Marlborough. Dressed in a Franciscan habit, she was buried at Christ Church Greyfriars in London, a church she had generously endowed. Her tomb was destroyed during the Reformation.

Issue
In all, Margaret gave birth to three children:
Thomas of Brotherton, 1st Earl of Norfolk (1 June 1300 – 4 August 1338)
Edmund of Woodstock, 1st Earl of Kent (5 August 1301 – 19 March 1330)
Eleanor (4 May 1306 – 1311) Died at Amesbury Abbey, buried at Beaulieu Abbey.

Genealogical table
Passage 8:
Henry III, Duke of Brabant
Henry III of Brabant (c. 1230 – February 28, 1261, Leuven) was Duke of Brabant between 1248 and his death. He was the son of Henry II of Brabant and Marie of Hohenstaufen. He was also a trouvère.
The disputed territory of Lothier, the former Duchy of Lower Lorraine, was assigned to him by the King Alfonso X of Castile, a claimant to the German throne. Alfonso also appointed him imperial vicar to advance his claims on the Holy Roman Empire.
In 1251, he married Adelaide of Burgundy (c. 1233 – October 23, 1273), daughter of Hugh IV, Duke of Burgundy and Yolande de Dreux, by whom he had four children:

Henry IV, Duke of Brabant (c. 1251 – aft. 1272) Mentally disabled, and made to abdicate in favor of his brother John on 24 May 1267.
John I, Duke of Brabant (1253–1294) Married first to Marguerite of France, daughter of King Louis IX of France (Saint Louis) and his wife Margaret of Provence, and later to Margaret of Flanders, daughter of Guy, Count of Flanders and his first wife Mathilda of Béthune.
Godfrey of Brabant, Lord of Aarschot (d. July 11, 1302, Kortrijk), killed at the Battle of the Golden Spurs, married 1277 Jeanne Isabeau de Vierzon (d. aft. 1296)
Maria of Brabant (1256, Leuven – January 12, 1321, Murel), married at Vincennes on August 27, 1274 to King Philip III of France.On February 26, 1261, Henry III signed his will, which included a clause threatening to banish Jewish people from Brabant unless they ceased the practice of usury, albeit only after his death. He died two days later. His wife Adelaide, acting as regent since Henry IV was incapable of ruling, never enforced this policy laid out in the will, and the Jews were able to stay.

See also
Dukes of Brabant family tree
Passage 9:
Marie of Brabant, Queen of France
Marie of Brabant (13 May 1254 – 12 January 1322) was Queen of France from 1274 until 1285 as the second wife of King Philip III. Born in Leuven, Brabant, she was a daughter of Henry III, Duke of Brabant, and Adelaide of Burgundy.

Queen
Marie married the widowed Philip III of France on 21 August 1274. His first wife, Isabella of Aragon, had already given birth to three surviving sons: Louis, Philip and Charles.
Philip was under the strong influence of his mother, Margaret of Provence, and his minion, surgeon and chamberlain (Chambellan) Pierre de la Broce. Not being French, Marie stood out at the French court. In 1276, Marie's stepson Louis died under suspicious circumstances. Marie was suspected of ordering him to be poisoned. La Broce, who was also suspected, was imprisoned and later executed for the murder.

Queen dowager
After the death of Philip III in 1285, Marie lost some of her political influence, and dedicated her life to their three children: Louis (May 1276 – 19 May 1319), Blanche (1278 – 19 March 1305) and Margaret (died in 1318). Her stepson Philip IV was crowned king of France on 6 January 1286 in Reims.
Together with Joan I of Navarre and Blanche of Artois, she negotiated peace in 1294 between England and France with Edmund Crouchback, the younger brother of Edward I of England.Marie lived through Philip IV's reign and she outlived her children. She died in 1322, aged 67, in the monastery at Les Mureaux, near Meulan, where she had withdrawn to in 1316. Marie was not buried in the royal necropolis of Basilica of Saint-Denis, but in the Cordeliers Convent, in Paris. Destroyed in a fire in 1580, the church was rebuilt in the following years.

See also
Marie of Brabant (disambiguation)

Notes
Sources
Bradbury, Jim (2007). The Capetians, Kings of France 987–1328. Hambledon Continuum.
Dunbabin, Jean (2011). The French in the Kingdom of Sicily, 1266–1305. Cambridge University Press.
Gaude-Ferragu, Murielle (2016). Queenship in Medieval France, 1300-1500. Palgrave Macmillan.
Jordan, William Chester (2009). A Tale of Two Monasteries: Westminster and Saint-Denis in the Thirteenth Century. Princeton University Press.
Morris, Marc (2008). Edward I and the Forging of Britain. Windmill Books.
Stanton, Anne Rudloff (2001). The Queen Mary Psalter: A Study of Affect and Audience. Vol. 91 Part 6. American Philosophical Society.
Viard, Jules Marie Édouard (1930). Grandes Chroniques de France. Librairie Ancienne Honoré Champion.
Passage 10:
Marie of Luxembourg, Queen of France
Marie of Luxembourg (1304 – 26 March 1324) was Queen of France and Navarre as the second wife of King Charles IV and I.
She was the daughter of Henry VII, Holy Roman Emperor and Margaret of Brabant. Her two siblings were John of Luxembourg and Beatrice of Luxembourg, Queen of Hungary.

Life
Marie was betrothed in 1308 to Louis of Bavaria, son and heir to Rudolf I, Duke of Bavaria. The engagement was agreed on soon after Marie's father Henry became King of the Romans; Rudolf had been a supporter of her father during the struggle for power. It ended due to the death of Louis around 1311. During the same year, Marie's mother Queen Margaret died whilst travelling with Henry in Genoa.
On 21 September 1322 in either Paris or Provins Marie married to Charles IV of France following the annulment of his first marriage to the adulterous Blanche of Burgundy. Blanche had given birth to two children, Philip and Joan, but both of them died young and Charles needed a son and heir to carry on the House of Capet.
On 15 May 1323 Marie was consecrated Queen of France at Sainte-Chapelle by Guillaume de Melum, Archbishop of Sens. In the same year she became pregnant but she later miscarried a girl. Whilst pregnant again in March 1324, Marie travelling to Avignon with King Charles to visit the pope when Marie fell out of the bottom of the coach. As a result, she went into labour and her child, a boy (Louis), was born prematurely, and died several hours later; Queen Marie died on 26 March 1324 and was buried at Montargis in the Dominican church. Following her death Charles married Jeanne d'Évreux, but failed to father a son, so the direct House of Capet was succeeded by its branch, the House of Valois.

Ancestors