Passage 1:
Shystie
Chanelle Scot Calica (born 25 December 1983), better known by her stage name Shystie, is an English rapper, songwriter and actress. 
She grew up in Hackney, East London. Shystie became famous in 2003 with her white label response to Dizzee Rascal's "I Luv U" and a tour with Basement Jaxx, The Streets and 50 Cent, which led to her being signed by major label Polydor. She is also the leading actress in the television series Dubplate Drama.

Debut album - Diamond in the Dirt
Shystie's debut studio album, Diamond in the Dirt was released in the UK only in 2004 by Polydor Records.
Her debut single was "One Wish", which peaked on its first week on the UK Singles Chart at number 40, having no mainstream radio or music channels' support besides Channel U and MTV Base. The B-side was "One Wish Remix", featuring Kano and produced by Terror Danja. Her second single was "Make It Easy" and the B-side was "Juiced"; it charted at number 57. Shystie's debut album went on to sell 60,000 copies across the UK, the same year she was nominated for 'Best Newcomer' at the MOBO Awards.In 2004, Shystie featured in the computer game with her own character, Juiced, albeit only in the Acclaim beta version. She also recorded an accompanying song and video entitled "Juiced", which was featured on the game's beta soundtrack and her album as a bonus track. In the final version, Shystie is replaced by Sue Yen. This version of her song does not appear.

Dubplate Drama
Dubplate Drama is a British television series that aired on Channel 4 between 11 November 2005 and 3 July 2009. The show was created by Luke Hyamms, Shystie and her manager. The premise of the series involved a group of young musicians, with the leading role by Shystie, who was attempting to make it big by securing a record deal. Three series of the show were broadcast. The first series contained six fifteen-minute episodes, the second contained six thirty-minute episodes, and the third contained two feature-length specials of sixty minutes each. The show was described as "the world's first interactive drama series", as it allowed viewers to vote on the outcome of each episode. The first two series were released on DVD, with the third remaining unreleased. The show was notable for its well-known British talent, including roles played by Shystie, Noel Clarke, Adam Deacon, N-Dubz and Tim Westwood.

Kidulthood
In March 2006, Shystie had two songs, "One Wish" and "Woman’s World", featured in the film Kidulthood.

Adulthood
In June 2008, Shystie played the role of Lisa in the film Adulthood, the sequel to Kidulthood. She wrote the theme song "Arms Open Wide" which featured on the Adulthood soundtrack.

Sket
In September 2011, Shystie wrote the theme song for the feature film Sket along with writing four other songs which were used for the film.

Illegal Activity
In March 2012, Shystie played the role of Toya in the short film Illegal Activity, which premiered at the Bafta HQs.

Recent activity
In April and July 2011, Shystie released two mixtapes entitled You're Welcome and Blue Magic.
In September, Shystie modelled for English designer Nasir Mazhar at the London Fashion Week and was featured in Vogue for her performance.
In March 2012, Shystie released a promotional single and video for "Bad Gyal" and, in August, released her second promotional single and video for "Feel It", both from her EP Pink Mist, which was produced by LzBeatz.
In February 2013, Shystie modelled and performed at London Fashion Week again, and was featured in Vogue for the second time. The next month Shystie and Azealia Banks went from being friends to enemies after Banks posted on Twitter that Shystie and Azealia's "Control It" video was "bogus" and "not Azalea". Shystie released a diss track directed at Banks called "Doppelganger". The track replaced "Control It" as the third track on Pink Mist.
On 28 April 2013, Shystie released her EP independently through her in-house team Starwork Music, entitled Pink Mist via iTunes. It debuted at number 4 in the charts.

Filmography
Discography
Studio albums/EPs
Mixtapes
Singles
Promotional singles
Singles as featured artist
Soundtrack appearances
Music videos
Featured music videos
Awards and nominations
MOBO Awards 2004 - Best Newcomer - nominated
Broadcasting Press Guild Awards 2006 - Best Television Series [Dubplate Drama] - nominated
OMA Awards 2012 - Best Female for 2011 - nominated
OMA Awards 2012 - Best Video for a Mixtape for 2011 - nominated
OMA Awards 2012 - Best Grime Mixtape for 2011 - nominated
Passage 2:
Nathaniel Gist
Nathaniel Gist (15 October 1733 – 1812) was born in Maryland and fought during the French and Indian War and the American Revolutionary War. He was reputed to be the father of Sequoyah the famous Cherokee by Wurteh Watts. Like his father Christopher Gist (1706–1759), he served in Braddock's Expedition in 1755 and the Forbes Expedition in 1758. The outbreak of the American Revolution found him on the frontier. At first suspected of sympathizing with the British, he convinced the Americans of his loyalty.
George Washington, a close friend of his father, authorized him to form Gist's Additional Continental Regiment in January 1777. Gist probably participated in Light Horse Harry Lee's Paulus Hook Raid in 1779. He and his regiment were captured at the Siege of Charleston in May 1780. After the war, he took an American wife Judith Cary Bell (1750–1833) and the couple had four daughters, one of whom married Francis P. Blair. He is variously said to have died in 1796, 1812, or at the end of the War of 1812. He is confused with his uncle Nathaniel Gist (1707–1780). He was a first cousin of Mordecai Gist.

French and Indian War
Born on 15 October 1733 in Baltimore, Province of Maryland, Gist's parents were Christopher Gist (1706–1759) and Sarah Howard (b. 1711). The surname was sometimes rendered Guest. In 1753 his father made a remarkable trek through the wilderness with George Washington. By this time the 20-year-old Nathaniel Gist was a trader living with the Overhill Cherokee near Echota. He and a partner Richard Pearis sold his father's goods to the Native Americans. Both men coveted the land at Long Island in the Holston River (now Kingsport, Tennessee) and soon fell out.  Governor Robert Dinwiddie blamed the quarrel for the failure of the Cherokees to aid the British against the French. In 1755 Gist accompanied Braddock's Expedition in 1755, serving as a lieutenant in his father's ranger company in Washington's colonial regiment. He continued his military service in 1756, protecting the frontier against raids by pro-French Indians.In 1757, Gist received promotion to captain and was given responsibility for 200 Cherokees living in Virginia. He was credited with leading these native peoples as an auxiliary force during the successful Forbes Expedition of 1758. In 1760, Gist accompanied Daniel Boone and other hunters on a trek to Abingdon, Virginia, then called Wolf Hill. The two then split up, with Boone going on to Long Island and Gist traveling to Cumberland Gap. He was said to have sired Sequoyah in 1760 or 1761, but this is unlikely because the Anglo-Cherokee War was raging and Gist was serving in Adam Stephen's colonial Virginia regiment against the Cherokees. This unit advanced as far as Long Island before peace was made between the two sides.

American Revolutionary War
Samuel C. Williams believed that Gist fathered Sequoyah around 1775 by his mother Wurteh Watts. Of a prominent clan, she was related to Old Tassel. Williams dismissed the story that Sequoyah's father was an itinerant German peddler by the name of Guess. He noted that Sequoyah went by George Guess, Guest, and Gist, and that he finished the Cherokee alphabet in 1821 when he was about 40. This was much too young for a man born in 1761. Williams noted that a letter showed that in 1828, Sequoyah visited Gist relatives in Kentucky and was acknowledged as a family member.The year 1775 found Gist living with the Overhill Cherokees. After a trip to West Florida, he returned to Cherokee country with Henry Stuart, the brother of John Stuart, the British agent to the southern tribes. At this time, the Stuarts and another agent Alexander Cameron were trying to get the white settlers on the Nolichucky and Watauga Rivers to move to West Florida. When the American Revolution broke out, the British agents desired to separate the American loyalist settlers from the rebels, so that the Indians could attack the rebels. They apparently hoped to enlist Gist in the effort. Jarret Williams, a settler got back to Virginia with the news that Gist was working with the British. In fact, Gist was in the pay of Cameron at the time. For his part, Gist warned the Cherokees not to start a war, but they began attacking the settlements anyway.

In 1776, Virginia sent an expedition under William Christian against the Cherokees. He was enjoined to capture the Stuarts, Cameron, and Gist as enemies. When the column reached the French Broad River, Gist came into the Virginian camp under a flag of truce. On 15 October 1776, Christian reported to Governor Patrick Henry that some of the Virginia troops recalled Gist's exploits on the frontier in a good light, while most of the soldiers wanted to lynch him as a British spy. Christian thought Gist was remorseful for becoming involved with the British agents, but did not entirely trust him. Nevertheless, he kept him from harm and Gist later regained his popularity. Gist maintained that it was impossible for him to escape so he appeared to go along with the enemy purpose, a story that was accepted by Governor Henry and the Virginia council in December.Washington appointed Gist colonel in command of Gist's Additional Continental Regiment on 11 January 1777. The regiment was intended to be a light infantry unit. Four companies of southern frontier rangers would be enrolled. In addition, Gist was to recruit 500 natives from the Cherokee and other tribes to serve as scouts. Aside from the military purpose, it was believed that enlisting the braves would bind the tribes in an alliance with the American cause. Only three companies were formed from Virginians and Marylanders. The regiment did not fight as a whole. Instead, the companies of Captains John Gist and Joseph Smith were attached to the 3rd Maryland Regiment while the company of Captain Samuel Lapsley served with the 12th Virginia Regiment. The three companies that comprised the regiment fought with the main army in the Philadelphia Campaign in the summer and fall of 1777 and at the Battle of Monmouth in June 1778.On 22 April 1779, Gist's Regiment absorbed Grayson's Additional Continental Regiment and Thruston's Additional Continental Regiment. The consolidated regiment reformed in the strength of eight companies. The unit was assigned to the 1st Virginia Brigade on 12 May. Gist preferred charges against Light Horse Harry Lee after the latter's capture of British prisoners at the Battle of Paulus Hook on 19 August 1779. Brigadier General George Weedon, who evidently disagreed with the charges, called Gist "the head of the Wrongheads". On 4 December, the regiment was ordered to march to Charleston, South Carolina. On 6 April 1780, William Woodford's contingent of 750 Virginia Continentals arrived, having marched 500 miles (805 km). Gist and his regiment were captured on 12 May 1780 at the Siege of Charleston. He retired from the army on 1 January 1783.Gist received 7,000 acres in Kentucky for his services in the war. He moved there in 1793 and built an estate called Canewood. At that time he was described as six feet tall and "stout-framed", with a dark complexion. Williams believed that he died around the end of the War of 1812. Historian Francis B. Heitman asserted that Gist died in 1796.

Family
Nathaniel had two brothers, Richard Gist, who was born on 2 September 1729 and died at the Battle of King's Mountain in 1780, and Thomas Gist, who moved to Kentucky after the American Revolutionary War. Heitman states that it was Nathaniel Gist Jr., an ensign in his father's regiment, who died at King's Mountain. His father had two brothers. Nathaniel is sometimes confused with his uncle Nathaniel. In 1783, Gist married Judith Cary Bell and the couple had four daughters, Eliza Violet, Sarah Howard, Anne Cary, and Maria. Eliza married Francis Preston Blair and was the mother of Montgomery Blair who served in Abraham Lincoln's cabinet and Francis Preston Blair Jr. a Union general and US Senator. Sarah married Jesse Bledsoe who became a US Senator, Anne wed Dr. Joseph Boswell, and Maria married Benjamin Gratz. The noted Maryland officer Mordecai Gist was his first cousin.

Notes
Footnotes

Citations
Passage 3:
Erik Watts
Erik Watts (born December 19, 1967) is an American semi-retired professional wrestler. He is best known for his appearances with World Championship Wrestling and the World Wrestling Federation in the 1990s. He is the son of wrestler Bill Watts.

Early life
Watts attended the University of Louisville, where he was a quarterback for the Louisville Cardinals.

Professional wrestling career
World Championship Wrestling (1992–1994)
Watts trained as a wrestler under his father, Bill Watts, and after wrestling for three months, he was hired by World Championship Wrestling. He debuted on August 27, 1992 in McMinnville, TN, and began a house show series against Buddy Lee Parker and Mark Canterbury. Still undefeated three months later, Watts would defeat Scotty Flamingo (later known as Raven), Vinnie Vegas, and a rookie Diamond Dallas Page. On November 2 Watts defeated Michael Hayes on WCW Saturday Night, and went on to score multiple victories against Mike Thor and Tex Slazenger. On November 8 he achieved a time-limit draw with Steve Austin on a live event in Winston-Salem, NC. In late November he entered his first feud, facing members of The Dangerous Alliance. On November 25 he upset Bobby Eaton in Baltimore, MD, winning by submission with an STF. The following month Watts took WCW US Champion Rick Rude to several time limit draws, and he gained his first pinfall victory over Steve Austin on December 5 in St Paul, MN. On December 7th at WCW Saturday Night his undefeated streak was ended by Rude. His constant pushes were controversial in that his father was WCW's booker at the time, leading to accusations of nepotism. On December 28, at Starrcade, Watts teamed with Jushin Thunder Liger, in a Lethal Lottery tag team match, losing to "Dr. Death" Steve Williams and Sting.
In January 1993 Watts gained victories over The Barbarian, Tony Atlas, and a returning Paul Orndorff. In February Watts teamed with Buff Bagwell and to take on Hollywood Blonds in a tag team match at SuperBrawl III, which Watts and Bagwell lost. Later in February, he was entered into a tournament to crown a new WCW TV Champion after previous titleholder Scott Steiner had departed four months earlier for the WWF. After defeating Johnny Gunn in the opening round, Watts beat Maxx Payne by disqualification in the quarter-finals. The last two rounds of the tournament were held on March 2 in Macon, GA. Watts pinned Vinnie Vegas in the semifinals, but was defeated by Paul Orndorff in the finals. Following his father's departure from WCW, Erik was targeted by Arn Anderson and began a house show series with The Enforcer as the Four Horsemen began the reformation. Watts continued to perform strongly against lower level competition, but was defeated by Steve Regal on July 18, 1993 at Beach Blast. In August, he began a house show series with Chris Benoit and came out victorious in each encounter. A month later however he began his first losing streak, dropping matches to WCW TV Champion Steve Regal on multiple occasions.On November 30, 1993 he was involved in a major angle on WCW Saturday Night. After defeating Paul Orndorff, Paul Roma came out to ringside and attacked Watts. This would lead to the formation of eventual tag-team champions Pretty Wonderful. Meanwhile, Watts continued to be victorious in 1994 against lower level competition, but was unable to break through against more experienced competition like Regal or Orndorff. His final match was on August 1, 1994 against Jean Paul Levesque in Ft Pierce, FL.

World Wrestling Federation (1995–1996)
In 1995, Watts followed his father to the World Wrestling Federation. In the WWF, Watts was renamed "Troy" and, together with Chad Fortune as "Travis", formed Tekno Team 2000. Wearing silver smocks and tight zubaz, their gimmick was that they represented the cutting edge of cyberculture. Their tag team made its debut on the May 27, 1995 episode of Superstars in a victorious effort against The Brooklyn Brawler and Barry Horowitz. They wrestled two more matches on TV the following month, but disappeared from television until reappearing at In Your House 2 pay-per-view, acting as lumberjacks for the main event. After being absent from TV for a year, they resurfaced in 1996, but still failed to achieve any success and both men were released from the WWF.

Return to WCW (1998–1999)
On the April 16, 1998 edition of Thunder, Watts returned to WCW for a match against Yuji Nagata. Eight months later Watts made a full-time return, and would win his first 2 matches back out of the gate. Before mainly being used as enhancement talent working on Saturday Night, WorldWide and on rare occasions on Monday Nitro. He would receive a shot at the WCW Television Championship on the March 30 edition of WCW Saturday Night, but would fall short at the hands of Booker T. His last TV appearance was on November 13 as he lost a match against Disco Inferno on Saturday Night.

Extreme Championship Wrestling (2000)
Watts joined the Philadelphia-based Extreme Championship Wrestling promotion in 2000, losing to Spike Dudley in his ECW Arena debut. He remained with the promotion for two months before departing.

All Japan Pro Wrestling (2000)
In late 2000, Watts worked for All Japan Pro Wrestling.

Turnbuckle Championship Wrestling (2001)
In 2001, Watts worked for Dusty Rhodes's Turnbuckle Championship Wrestling in Philadelphia where he won the TCW Tag Team titles with Scotty Riggs.

NWA Total Nonstop Action (2002–2005)
In 2002, Watts joined NWA Total Nonstop Action. He eventually formed a heel stable with David Flair and Brian Lawler (two other second generation wrestlers whose careers were overshadowed by those of their famous fathers, Ric and Jerry) known as "The Next Generation". After the faction disbanded, Watts turned face. He acted as the TNA Director of Authority from July 23, 2003 to January 28, 2004, before being ousted from his position by Don Callis. Watts then feuded with his on-screen girlfriend, Goldy Locks, throughout 2004. In late 2004, he feuded with Raven, defeating him at Final Resolution on January 16, 2005 before leaving the promotion in February.

Retirement (2005–present)
After leaving TNA, Watts began working primarily for the Georgia-based Great Championship Wrestling promotion. He also appeared with AWA Superstars of Wrestling, defeating Diamond Dallas Page for the vacant International Heavyweight Championship on February 4, 2005 in Tucson, Arizona in a match refereed by Mick Foley. The title was retired by the AWA Board of Directors later that year. In November 2009, Watts returned to Great Championship Wrestling, now based in Phenix City, Alabama, to be the promotion's booker. He is also playing an authority role on their weekly live events.

Championships and accomplishments
AWA Superstars of Wrestling
AWA Superstars of Wrestling International Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
Great Championship Wrestling
GCW Heavyweight Championship (2 times)
GCW Tag Team Championship (1 time) – with John Bogie
NWA Spinebuster
NWA Spinebuster Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
Pro Wrestling Illustrated
Rookie of the Year (1992)
Ranked No. 37 of the top 500 singles wrestlers in the PWI 500 in 1998
Turnbuckle Championship Wrestling
TCW Tag Team Championship (1 time) – with Scotty Anton
Wrestling Observer Newsletter
Most Overrated Wrestler (1992)
Readers' Least Favorite Wrestler (1992)
Most Disgusting Promotional Tactic (1992) Being pushed by WCW
Passage 4:
TCW Tag Team Championship
The TCW Tag Team Championship was the primary professional wrestling tag team title of Turnbuckle Championship Wrestling. It was originally won by Scott Anton and Erik Watts who defeated Glacier and Jorge Estrada, coincidentally opponents for the TCW Heavyweight Championship, in Dothan, Alabama on March 3, 2001. Unlike the singles titles, the tag team titles changed hands very often when the promotion toured outside the state of Georgia, as far away as Alabama and Tennessee.

Title history
Passage 5:
Ockelbo-Lundgren
Ockelbo-Lundgren was the nickname of Erik Lundgren (19 February 1919 – 16 September 1967), a Swedish racing driver that produced replica cars and boats under the name Ockelbo.He first became known during the 1940s as "Trollkarlen från Ockelbo" (The Wizard from Ockelbo) when he participated in several races in a Ford 38 powered by a V8 engine with eight carburettors producing 280 hp – at speeds up to 220 km/h.Lundgren built and sold tuning items and in the mid-1950s he heard about a burned-out Alfa Romeo Giulietta Sprint and got the idea to make his own bodywork for it. He made a fibreglass mould using Uffe Norinder's Ferrari 500 Mondial and then started making his own bodies. They were considered very good (according to some better than the original) and could take many different donors for chassis and drive line, like VW Beetle, Saab, DKW, MG, Simca, Porsche, etc. As of 2014, the Ockelbo-Ferrari was still made (under the Pagano brand).Later Lundgren also made fibreglass boats, from the company Ockelbo-Båtar AB that was in business until 1979.

Formula One World Championship results
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position; Races in italics indicate fastest lap)
Passage 6:
Bill Watts
William F. Watts Jr. (born May 5, 1939) is a retired American professional wrestler, promoter and former American football player. Watts garnered fame under his "Cowboy" gimmick in his wrestling career, and then as a promoter in the Mid-South United States, which grew to become the Universal Wrestling Federation (UWF).
In 1992, Watts was the Executive Vice President of World Championship Wrestling (WCW) but after clashes with management over a number of issues, as well as feeling pressure from Hank Aaron over a racially insensitive interview, he resigned. He was subsequently replaced by Ole Anderson.In 1995, Watts briefly worked as a booker for the World Wrestling Federation (WWF). In 2009, he was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame.

Football career
Watts played as a linebacker for his high school football team, the Putnam City Pirates. Bud Wilkinson recruited him to play for the Oklahoma Sooners, where he played as a guard during his sophomore and junior years. However, his junior year was marred by a near fatal car accident involving him and his mother, resulting in him going into a coma. When he came out, he had lost a significant amount of weight, and had to put it back on, despite the coaches at the time preferring their players to be small and quick, which Watts had struggled with before the accident. Former Sooners teammate Wahoo McDaniel (then of the Houston Oilers of the AFL), introduced him to professional wrestling for the first time, something McDaniel did in the off-season. Watts turned professional in 1961 and joined the Oilers, but did not last long there, and according to a shoot interview, he left after knocking out a coach.Through McDaniel's friendship with defensive coach Bob Griffin, Watts played for the Indianapolis Warriors of the United Football League, while also being able to wrestle for NWA Indianapolis. Watts then had a try-out with the Minnesota Vikings of the National Football League (NFL), but after a discussion with general manager Jim Finks, who wanted him to quit his wrestling career, Watts left the Vikings having decided he could make more money back in Oklahoma.

Professional wrestling career
Wrestling career (1962–1979)
As a professional wrestler, he famously feuded with WWWF Champion Bruno Sammartino, but was unable to win the title. In the 1960s, he wrestled in many areas, such as San Francisco, Chicago, St. Louis, and even Japan for All Japan Pro Wrestling (AJPW). During these periods, Watts challenged for both the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) and American Wrestling Association (AWA) versions of the World Title.

Booking career (1979-1995)
Mid-South Wrestling / Universal Wrestling Federation (1979–1987)
Watts is perhaps even more famous for being a pioneering promoter in the Mid-South area of the United States, with his base of operation being in the Shreveport, Louisiana area. His promotion was known as Mid-South Wrestling. He is often credited with creating the current and popular "episodic" style of TV wrestling, building solid creative storylines week-on-week, with an emphasis on solid in-ring action with dependable wrestlers like "Dr. Death" Steve Williams, The Junkyard Dog, Ted DiBiase and Jim Duggan. He is an outspoken critic on breaking kayfabe and "smart" wrestling fans. A Watts-run promotion always had face and heel wrestlers dress in different locker rooms and to have faces and heels not meet publicly. He has also been known to revamp his booking plans in order to protect the business from such fans.
After losing over half a million dollars, Watts sold the UWF to NWA Mid-Atlantic's Jim Crockett Promotions, who kept many of their stars, such as Sting. Instead of having UWF as a separate organization, Crockett sent his mid-card wrestlers to the UWF and had them quickly win their titles. Eventually, the UWF folded, and Crockett would be bought out by Ted Turner in 1988. In April 1989, after firing George Scott, WCW offered Watts the chance to book, but he declined the offer and WCW instead decided to go with a booking committee, which included Ric Flair and Kevin Sullivan. It is said that Flair would seek advice on booking or how to formulate a document correctly from Jim Cornette, who is often miscredited as a member of the actual committee.

World Championship Wrestling (1992–1993)
Watts became Executive Vice President of World Championship Wrestling (succeeding Kip Frey) in 1992. He took many of his old-school values with him, such as banning moves from the top rope and the babyfaces and heels separation. His tenure was not long, nor were his ideas overly embraced. According to his autobiography, Controversy Creates Ca$h, Eric Bischoff (who worked under Watts at the time) felt Watts would intimidate anyone he was talking to and was only interested in taking the WCW product back to 1970s standards, with poorly lit arenas and house shows in remote rural towns.
The circumstances of Watts' departure in 1993 are controversial. Prior to 1992, he had given an interview to a wrestling newsletter. Most notably, Watts had commented on Lester Maddox, a restaurant owner (and future Governor of Georgia) who was told he had to serve black people but instead closed down his business. Watts felt Maddox stood up for what he believed in and acted accordingly. He also made several other controversial statements pertaining to race and sexual orientation. When he was hired by WCW, Watts had explained the situation to Turner president Bill Shaw, apparently to his satisfaction. However, a year later wrestling journalist Mark Madden brought the interview to the attention of Hank Aaron, himself a vice president in the Turner organization with the Atlanta Braves, who then pushed for Watts' removal. While Madden takes credit for Watts getting fired, Watts himself disputes this account, saying he was not fired for the comments but quit his position out of frustration over "backstabbing" by Shaw and (unbeknownst to Shaw) had already resigned by the time Aaron got the newsletter. Watts was replaced by Ole Anderson.

World Wrestling Federation (1995)
Watts later went on to a position of booking power in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF). His tenure there was short, as he stated in later interviews that he was only there on a three-month contract and had no interest in staying long-term. On April 4, 2009, Watts was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame as a part of the Class of 2009.

Personal life
Watts has five children. From his first marriage, he has a son, William III (nicknamed Biff), and from his second marriage, he has three sons, Joel, Erik, Micah and a daughter, Ene. In March 2006, Watts released his autobiography The Cowboy and the Cross: The Bill Watts Story: Rebellion, Wrestling and Redemption through ECW Press. The book chronicles his upbringing, his career as first a wrestler, then a promoter, along with events in his personal life. The book also details his becoming a born-again Christian.
Watts is a Republican, and in an ROH shoot interview with Jim Cornette, filmed in 2006, he criticised Bill Clinton and the Democrats numerous times. He also said, "All men are equal, but some men are more talented than others, and worth more."
Watts served as co-host of a sports talk radio show on The Sports Animal in Tulsa, Oklahoma until late 2008. He was a longtime resident of Bixby, a Tulsa suburb.

Championships and accomplishments
American Wrestling Alliance
AWA United States Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
Cauliflower Alley Club
Other honoree (2001)
Championship Wrestling from Florida
NWA Florida Heavyweight Championship (3 times)
NWA Southern Heavyweight Championship (Florida version) (1 time)
George Tragos/Lou Thesz Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame
Class of 2013
Gulf Coast Championship Wrestling
NWA Gulf Coast Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
Japan Wrestling Association
NWA International Tag Team Championship (1 time) – with Tarzan Tyler
Mid-South Sports
NWA Georgia Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
NWA Tri-State / Mid-South Wrestling Association
Mid-South North American Heavyweight Championship (2 times)
Mid-South Tag Team Championship (1 time) – with Buck Robley
NWA Louisiana Tag Team Championship (1 time) – with Buck Robley
NWA North American Heavyweight Championship (Tri-State version) (7 times)
NWA Tri-State Brass Knuckles Championship (2 times)
NWA Tri-State Tag Team Championship (5 times) – with Jerry Kozak (1), Billy Red Lyons (1), Greg Valentine (1), Billy Robinson (1) and Buck Robley (1)
Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame
Class of 2013
Southwest Sports, Inc.
NWA Texas Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
World Wide Wrestling Federation / World Wrestling Entertainment
WWWF United States Tag Team Championship (1 time) – with Gorilla Monsoon
WWE Hall of Fame (Class of 2009)
Wrestling Observer Newsletter awards
Most Obnoxious (1992)
Wrestling Observer Newsletter Hall of Fame (Class of 1996)
Passage 7:
Vicki Fowler
Vicki Fowler is a fictional character from the BBC soap opera EastEnders, played by Emma Herry from the character's birth in 1986 to 1988, Samantha Leigh Martin from 1988 to 1995, and Scarlett Alice Johnson from 2003 to 2004. She is the daughter of Michelle Fowler (Susan Tully) and Den Watts (Leslie Grantham). The character is born in the serial, conceived in a controversial storyline about teenage pregnancy. Exploiting a whodunnit angle, at the time of the first showing, viewers were not initially told who was the father, and press interest in the fledgling show escalated as journalists attempted to guess. The audience finally discovered his identity in October 1985 in episode 66. Written by series co-creator/script-editor Tony Holland and directed by co-creator/producer Julia Smith, it was considered a landmark episode in the show's history. Early suspects were Ian Beale (Adam Woodyatt) and Kelvin Carpenter (Paul J. Medford), but then four possible suspects are seen leaving the Square early in the episode: Tony Carpenter (Oscar James), Ali Osman (Nejdet Salih), Andy O'Brien (Ross Davidson), and Den Watts. As Michelle waits by their rendezvous point, a car pulls up and the fluffy white legs of the soap landlord's poodle Roly leap out of a car to give it all away: Den Watts is the father of Michelle's baby. After this storyline the programme started to appear in newspaper cartoons as it moved more and more into the public mainstream.Vicki's character was written out in 1995, after Susan Tully, who played Vicki's mother Michelle, decided to leave the soap. After an eight-year absence, she was reintroduced by Executive Producer Louise Berridge in 2003 as a rebellious teenager. Her reintroduction was part of the soap's attempt to rebuild the Watts clan, a successful family headed by Den, which had featured prominently in the 1980s. Johnson quit the role in 2004. The media was generally critical about the character upon her return, due to her American accent and its sudden disappearance. During the character's original stint, a storyline featuring Vicki being kidnapped was criticised due to its coincidental airing alongside the real-life abduction and murder of toddler James Bulger.

Storylines
1986–1995
16-year-old Michelle Fowler gets pregnant in 1985 after a one-night stand with her best friend Sharon's (Letitia Dean) father, Den Watts (Leslie Grantham). Her family decide Michelle should have an abortion but she refuses, keeping the baby but keeping the father's name a secret. Vicki, named in honour of her great-grandparents Lou Beale (Anna Wing) and Lou's late husband Albert, is born in 1986 and Den is allowed to hold her but he and Michelle agree that he should keep his distance so nobody guesses he is her father. Michelle raises Vicki with her fiancé, Lofty Holloway (Tom Watt), who she marries after jilting him at the altar, although Den provides for Vicki secretly. After Sue Osman (Sandy Ratcliff) realises that she has had a phantom pregnancy, she is devastated and suggests to Michelle that she lets her and Ali Osman (Nejdet Salih) adopt Vicki, which infuriates Michelle. Vicki's grandmother, Pauline Fowler (Wendy Richard), realises Den is Vicki's father when she sees him give money to Michelle and slaps him. Lofty begins to pressure Michelle to let him adopt Vicki and have another child, but their marriage soon breaks down after Michelle has an abortion and Michelle refuses to name Vicki's father upon Lofty's departure. When Den is shot and presumed dead, Michelle tells Sharon that Vicki is her half-sister and Sharon is devastated whilst Arthur is furious. Vicki survives meningitis but Dr Legg (Leonard Fenton) fails to diagnose it, reuniting Michelle and Sharon.
Michelle decides to go on the run with Clyde Tavernier (Steven Woodcock) after he is accused of murdering Eddie Royle (Michael Melia), taking Vicki and Kofi Tavernier (Marcel Smith), Clyde's son, with them. Michelle and Clyde are caught by the police when trying to flee the country and Vicki and Kofi are sent to a children's home, but are later collected by their grandmothers. Vicki is kidnapped when an old woman, Audrey Whittingham (Shirley Dixon), takes her from outside her school. A national police investigation is launched and Vicki is returned home safely. When Michelle is shot by Dougie Briggs (Max Gold), Vicki discovers she is Sharon's half-sister when she stays with Sharon and her husband, Grant Mitchell (Ross Kemp) and the following day, Sharon tells Vicki about her father, which infuriates Michelle. The truth about Vicki's paternity spreads and Michelle's aunt, Kathy Beale (Gillian Taylforth), is upset about not being told by Michelle herself, finding out from Mandy Salter (Nicola Stapleton). In October 1995, Michelle and 9-year-old Vicki leave Walford for Birmingham, Alabama, in the United States.

2003–2004
A teenage Vicki returns to Walford in February 2003 when she runs away from home. She has been arguing regularly with Michelle and it is decided that she can stay in Walford. After clashing with her grandmother Pauline, Vicki moves in with Sharon. Manipulative and mischievous, Vicki does as she pleases. Just weeks later, she discovers that she and Sharon have a half-brother, Dennis Rickman (Nigel Harman) – and persuades him to move to Walford. When she becomes pregnant by Spencer Moon (Christopher Parker), Sharon, who believes she is infertile, offers Vicki £10,000 to give her the baby to bring up as her own. Spencer wants to be a father but Vicki terminates the pregnancy.
Dennis soon tells Vicki that Den, who had supposedly died in 1989, is alive and living in Spain, and she brings him back to the Square to reunite with his family. She's horrified to discover that Sharon and Dennis have started a romantic relationship. Although they aren't biologically related, Vicki cannot accept it and rebels by dating Ash Ferreira (Raji James), which ends when he realizes that she is using him to get at her siblings. Eventually, Vicki and Den's objections take their toll on Sharon and Dennis and they end the relationship.
In 2004, an 18-year-old Vicki starts a relationship with her 46-year-old college lecturer, Tommy Grant (Robert Cavanah); her family, particularly stepmother Chrissie Watts (Tracy-Ann Oberman), are outraged. Tommy feigns love for Vicki and they talk about leaving Walford to go travelling. Knowing that Tommy is untrustworthy, Chrissie attempts to seduce him. After a brief kiss, Chrissie strips him naked in the toilets of The Queen Victoria public house, on the promise that she will soon join him. She steals his clothes and forces Vicki to see him for the lying cheat he is. Vicki is devastated and initially furious with Chrissie but eventually realizes she had her best interests at heart.
During a family meal on Christmas Day 2004, Sharon and Dennis announce that they have resumed their romantic relationship, only for Dennis's girlfriend Zoe Slater (Michelle Ryan) to announce that she is pregnant. Sharon decides to go to America alone and persuades Dennis to stay with Zoe and their baby. Den talks to Sharon alone, trying to persuade her to stay. Vicki overhears him say he does not love Vicki as much as he loves Sharon. Deciding she cannot live with such a father, Vicki decides to return to her mother in America. It is later revealed that she has moved to Australia and reunited with Spencer.
In January 2014, Sharon tells Spencer's brother, Alfie Moon (Shane Richie), that they need someone to help them open a bar in Sydney, so Alfie goes there for a few weeks to work with them. Vicki and Spencer are unable to attend Sharon's wedding to Phil Mitchell (Steve McFadden) in September 2014, nor are they able to attend the wedding of Vicki's relative Ian Beale (Adam Woodyatt) to Jane Beale (Laurie Brett) in February 2015. When Lofty returns to Walford in 2019, he gives Sharon  a £20,000 cheque to give to Vicki. In 2022, Vicki is revealed to be back in the USA when Sharon flies over to be with her whilst Vicki undergoes emergency surgery.

Creation and development
Conception and childhood characterisation
The conception of Vicki Fowler in 1985 was one of the first controversial storylines featured in EastEnders since its inception that February, as it involved the pregnancy of a schoolgirl, Michelle Fowler (Susan Tully). Exploiting a Whodunit angle, viewers were not initially told who was the father, and press interest in the fledgling show escalated as journalists attempted to guess. The audience finally discovered his identity in October 1985 on episode 66. Written by series co-creator/script-editor Tony Holland and directed by co-creator/producer Julia Smith, it was considered a landmark episode in the show's history. Four possible suspects were seen leaving the Square early in the episode: Tony Carpenter (Oscar James), Ali Osman (Nejdet Salih), Andy O'Brien (Ross Davidson), and Den Watts (Leslie Grantham). As Michelle waited by their rendezvous point, a car pulled up and the fluffy white legs of the soap landlord's poodle Roly leapt out of a car and gave it all away: Den Watts had fathered Michelle's baby. After this storyline the programme started to appear in newspaper cartoons as it moved more and more into the public mainstream.Baby Emma Henry originated the role and played Vicki until 1988, when her parents moved to Scotland. The role was recast to Samantha Leigh Martin, who learned to call Susan Tully "Mummy Shell" and referred to Letitia Dean who played her mum's best friend, "Daddy Sharon". Tully has commented, "What's lovely about working with Samantha is that she's always happy. When it comes to work, she knows it's playing a pretend game, she knows my real name but she knows to call me 'Mummy Shell' when the cameras are running. If she isn't involved for a couple of weeks, I like to visit her at home, so she's always relaxed with me." Tully worried about this when it came to filming scenes in 1989 where Vicki contracted meningitis and was hospitalised and placed in an incubator with tubes attached to her body. Tully said, "[Samantha] has seen me in all kinds of situations but I didn't know how she'd cope if I cried over her". At Tully's suggestion, the BBC built a hospital room with minimal equipment and a consultant was present to make sure the BBC had the details correct and that neither the viewers or Samantha would be too distressed. Tully insisted that the child was not present when she had to film scenes of Michelle sobbing over the incubator.In 1995, after 9 years onscreen being featured in various plot lines such as kidnapping, Vicki was written out of EastEnders, moving to America with Michelle.

Recast (2003)
In 2002, executive producer Louise Berridge decided to reintroduce the character 8 years after she had last appeared. Auditions were held to cast the role to a professional actor; however, auditionees were not informed which character they were auditioning for. The first audition was a group workshop of 30 auditionees, who were asked to perform improvisations. After whittling down potential actors from 500 to 4, the second stage of the audition process was an interview with EastEnders' Casting Director. The auditionees were asked to perform a monologue in front of a camera and do a screen test with one of the actors already in the show, Christopher Parker, who played Spencer Moon.17-year-old actress Scarlett Alice Johnson was cast: "At the second audition they gave me a monologue to read, but they'd been really careful about it. They hadn't said what the character's name was, they didn't give away anything in the monologue that might tell me who I was auditioning for. So I didn't know until I got the part who I was going to be playing—I'd been guessing for ages!" Asked how she felt when she knew she was playing Vicki Fowler, a character linked to the show's early history who is the daughter of 2 prominent original characters, Johnson said: "I felt very honoured, but it was quite scary. I knew there'd be a lot of people out there with expectations of what she'd be like. But it's good fun actually. It means you don't have to introduce yourself to everyone. You can really play with that [...] My family are EastEnders addicts, we've watched it our whole lives. I remember the first Vicki, I remember Michelle and I definitely remember Dirty Den! My knowledge of the show really helped a lot, because I didn't have to do any research into the character. When I joined the show, I felt like I was meeting the actors for a second time. I'd already met them in my home on TV, then I had to actually meet them in real life!" The character made her reappearance in January 2003, turning up unexpectedly at her grandmother Pauline's (Wendy Richard) house.To signify the character's eight years living in America, Johnson was required to use an American accent while playing Vicki. She was given a voice coach and a sheet of American phrases to practice weekly. She commented, "It is hard work, but it's becoming second nature now. As soon as I know that I'm Vicki, the accent just comes with it." After 6 months in the role, Vicki dropped the American accent. Johnson explained the reason for the change in 2004: "The producers knew that I had to have an American accent when I came into the show because my character had been living in America but it's not the kind of accent that you'd want to have for a long time on a show like EastEnders. It's not something that's going to fit in for a long period of time. What would have been perfect would have been to have it gradually fade out, but as you film 8 episodes at a time, this would be nigh on impossible. The decision was made that in the story Vicki was coming to terms with the fact that she wanted to live in London so therefore she was going to make a conscious effort to fit in with everyone around her and blend in with London life."The reintroduction of Vicki was part of the producers' plan to reform the Watts family, including the resurrection of Vicki's father Den, who had been presumed dead for 14 years. Discussing working with Leslie Grantham, who played Vicki's "iconic" father Den, Johnson said, "I was 2 when he left EastEnders [in 1989] so I never witnessed the hype surrounding him. I'm very aware of the legend. How could I not be? My only concern was that he should take me seriously [and] It's been fabulous. I can't wait for our scenes to be shown. They're really edgy and no one does edgy better than Leslie. It's been a massive challenge but I think the results are incredibly hard-hitting. EastEnders is becoming more like a serial drama than a soap. It's so well-written."

Personality
Vicki has been described as a "little madam" and a rebel.  An EastEnders source commented, "Vicki has inherited a lot of her dad Den's traits – she is going to be a right handful". Johnson has said, "Everyone loves to hate her, but I rather like that. I'd be more upset if she was nondescript. At least I provoke a passionate response in people. It's great being a bad girl."

Departure (2004)
In August 2004, the BBC announced that Johnson had decided to quit her role as Vicki. She commented, "I've had a really good two years, enjoyed all the experiences but it's time to move on". Johnson filmed her final scenes in October and her departure coincided with that of Vicki's half-sister, Sharon (Letitia Dean).  Vicki departed on the Christmas Day episode of 2004. 12.3 million viewers watched the episodes that involved the Watts family's disbandment. Media reports claimed that there were plans to bring Vicki back the following year, played by a new actress; this proved to be false. Her character was notably absent at the funerals of Vicki's father Den in September 2005, her brother Dennis in January 2006, and her grandmother Pauline in January 2007.
Following her departure from EastEnders, Johnson was more candid in her reasons for leaving: "I've had a great time but it got to the point where I was sat in bed at night thinking: 'Tomorrow will my character be crying, getting drunk or having an argument?'. It soon became physically exhausting and draining [...] I don't think the producers were very happy when I said I wanted to leave. I was still very new and they had just set up the new Watts dynasty but no-one could have made me change my mind. When I said to the producers I wanted to go they told me they might have to recast Vicki. I don't mind. Life goes on and EastEnders goes on. I wouldn't want to go back at the moment – but never say never."

Reception
According to author Hilary Kingsley, the scenes in EastEnders' early years that showed toddler Vicki  "chattering happily" with the baby actor who played her uncle Martin (Jon Peyton Price) were viewer favourites. EastEnders was criticised in 1993 for featuring a storyline about child abduction at an inappropriate time. In the storyline, six-year old Vicki was abducted, leaving Michelle frantic with worry. In what has been described as a "coincidence of ill-timing", the storyline was screened at the same time as the real-life abduction and murder of two-year-old James Bulger. The BBC was forced to transmit a health warning prior to the airing of the episodes, announcing that the storyline would be "resolved positively".In the book, Social Issues in Television, a senior, nameless script editor opined that the abduction storyline sought to engage the audience at the expense of any parent's realistic concerns: "We get it wrong when we take the easy route like the kidnap snatch with Vicki. My argument about this was that I am a father but have never had my kids snatched. If I'm just sitting at home and my children are out late at night and they say they're going to be back at midnight and they don't come back, you immediately think they're dead and you start to worry. If they'd actually been snatched, it would have affected my entire life forever. I would never have recovered from it. I would have been frightened every time one of them left my side. Therefore the consequence of running a storyline like that is immense. If we were being totally responsible about it the fallout on Michelle would have been, well I just don't think she would have been the same person again."
The character received media criticism due to her American accent upon her reintroduction in 2003. Johnson said, "I knew that would happen because I'm the only character who speaks differently. I haven't taken any of that to heart." However, when the accent was altered from American to British, this received criticism too with Ian Hyland from the Daily Mirror describing it as "hilarious" and branding the character "Go Away Again Vicki".  He added, "Presumably the producers decided the reason viewers found her so annoying was her whiny American voice. Try again, guys." Upon her departure in 2004, Johnson was also critical about her character's alternating accent: "When I took the job they weren't sure what accent they wanted Vicki to have and about a week before they told me it should be American. I did that for a few months and then one day out of the blue I arrived on set and they told me they wanted me to change to Cockney. It was the producer's decision. I was as stunned as everyone else – all the criticism was perfectly justified. It's probably the most stupid decision they could have made. People assumed I was slipping out of the accent – but it was nothing to do with me. I've taken a lot of stick. But it doesn't bother me because I know the truth."A proportion of viewers responded negatively when Vicki was shown to have an abortion. Johnson claims she received abusive letters from fans of the show and that she was stopped in the street twice by older women who told her "it was quite wrong [...] to have got rid of the baby. I found that awkward at the time. But, gradually, I came to realise it was rather flattering. Those women believed in my character so completely they forgot she wasn't real. So now I think I must have been doing a good job." Johnson has since been critical of the storylines given to her character describing them as weak.
Passage 8:
James Prinsep Beadle
James Prinsep Beadle (22 September 1863 – 13 August 1947) was an English painter of historical and military scenes.

early life
Born in Calcutta on 22 September 1863, his father was Major-General James Pattle Beadle. For three years, he studied with Legros at the Slade School in London and at the Ecole des Beaux Arts in Paris under Alexandre Cabanel; his final studies were back in London with G. F. Watts.

Painting career
Beadle first exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1884 and also at the Paris Salon. Five years later, he was awarded a bronze medal at the Paris Exposition Universelle. Growing up in a military family, the artist was particularly attracted to military subjects and one of his earliest pieces depicted the inspection of the Duke of Yorks Own Loyal Suffolk Hussars at Bury St. Edmonds in 1893. From then on, he was a frequent exhibitor of 'battle' paintings at the RA, the New Gallery and elsewhere. In a review published in the Illustrated London News on 19 May 1894, Beadle's military pieces were singled-out for praise: "He does not go out of his way to flatter 'Tommy Atkins', but he shows him to the public under many forms and in many becoming uniforms. He has studied him at home and abroad, at peace and at war, on horseback and on foot..."
While many of his scenes represented contemporary events such as the Franco-Prussian War, the Boer War and the First World War, Beadle found the subject of the Peninsular War, particularly interesting and visited Spain and Portugal in 1912 to sketch the battlefields. As late as 1924, the artist was still paintings scenes from the Peninsular War, but the events of 1914-1918 were also occupying his mind, and several notable paintings were produced including Neuve Chapelle, 10 March 1915, Dawn: Waiting to go over, and Breaking the Hindenburg Line. In his final years, he lived in Kensington and died at his home on Eldon Road on 13 August 1947, leaving his widow, A.M.G. Beadle.

Paintings
George II knighting Trooper Brown (Queen's Royal Hussars)
The Rearguard (Retreat to Corunna) (The Rifles)
Sahagun, December 1808 (The Light Dragoons)
Vitoria, 21 June 1813: The Village of Gamara Mayor carried by the 4th, 47th and 59th Regiments of General Robinson's Brigade (Nuneaton Art Gallery)
St. Sebastian, August 1813 (Regimental Museum, King's Own Royal Regiment, Lancaster)
Salamanca (Regimental Museum, King's Own Royal Regiment, Lancaster)
The Passage of the Bidassoa by Wellington's Army, 7 October 1813 (1908 - Queen's Royal Hussars)
Napoleon's last inspection at Waterloo
"1815." The Captive Eagle. Corporal Styles of the Royal Dragoons, etc (1892 - Norfolk Museums Service)
Saving the Guns at Maiwand (1893 - National Army Museum)
The Victors of Paardeberg
The Empty Saddle: South Africa, 1900 (Queen's Royal Lancers)
Bergendal, South Africa: Charge of the 2nd Battalion Rifle Brigade (1914 - The Rifles)
Battle of Gheluveldt, 31 October 1914 (1920 - Worcester Museum and Art Gallery)
Dawn: Waiting to go over (Imperial War Museum)
Neuve Chapelle, 10 March 1915: 2nd Rifle Brigade and 39th Garwal Rifles clearing the village (Maidstone Museum & Art Gallery)
Battle of the Somme: Attack of the Ulster Division, 1 July 1916 (Belfast City Hall)
Breaking the Hindenburg Line (Imperial War Museum)
The Lost Patrol (East Riding Yeomanry in Palestine, 1917 (Queen's Own Yeomanry, York)
The Action of the 6th Mounted Brigade (The Bucks, Berks and Dorset Yeomanry) at El Mughar (1922 - Crown Commissioners, Institute of Directors, Pall Mall)
Charge of the Bucks, Berks, and Dorset Yeomanry at El Mughar, Palestine Campaign, 13 November 1917 (1936 - Staff College, Camberley)
Passage 9:
The Watts Prophets
The Watts Prophets were an American political poetry group from Watts, California, United States. Like their contemporaries The Last Poets, the group combined elements of jazz music and spoken-word performance, making the trio one that is often seen as a forerunner of contemporary hip-hop music. 
Formed in 1967, the group comprised Richard Dedeaux, Fr Amde Hamilton (born Anthony Hamilton), and Otis O'Solomon (also billed as Otis O'Solomon Smith) (O'Solomon removed the "Smith" from his name in the 1970s). Hamilton is the last surviving member as of March 2022.

History
Hamilton, O'Solomon, and Dedeaux first met and collaborated at the Watts Writers Workshop, an organization created by Budd Schulberg in the wake of the Watts Riots, as the Civil Rights Movement was beginning to take a new cultural turn. Fusing music with jazz and funk roots, and rapid-fire, spoken-word poetry, they created a sound that gave them a considerable local following. They released two albums, 1969's The Black Voices: On the Streets in Watts and 1971's Rappin' Black in a White World, which established a strong tendency toward social commentary and a reputation for militancy. The group was unable to secure another record deal; a promising deal with Bob Marley's Tuff Gong label famously fell through. Unable to sustain success, the group has performed only sporadically since the mid-1970s.
In recent years, the group's profile has improved somewhat. The 1997 recording, When the 90's Came, found them in the studio with pianist Horace Tapscott, and a European tour reunited the trio with former collaborator DeeDee McNeil. In 2005, Things Gonna Get Greater: The Watts Prophets 1969-1971 combined the group's first two efforts, bringing them back into print for the first time in more than a decade.
Amde Hamilton, who is now a priest of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, can be seen performing a spoken-word piece at the 1981 funeral service of Bob Marley in Jamaica in the 1982 film Land of Look Behind. He also claims to have baptized Nina Simone (who was later funeralized in a Catholic church—the faith in which Hamilton was raised).
In 1994, the group appeared on the Red Hot Organization's compilation CD, Stolen Moments: Red Hot + Cool, appearing on a track entitled "Apprehension" alongside Don Cherry (trumpeter). The album, meant to raise awareness of the AIDS epidemic in African-American society was named "Album of the Year" by Time Magazine.Richard Dedeaux died in December 2013. O'Solomon died in March 2022.

Discography
1969 - The Black Voices: On the Streets in Watts
1971 - Rappin' Black in a White World
1997 - When the 90's Came
2005 - Things Gonna Get Greater: The Watts Prophets 1969-1971 (compilation)

See also
The Last Poets
Gil Scott-Heron
Passage 10:
Angela Lonsdale
Angela Lonsdale (née Smith; 13 October 1967) is an English actress.

Biography
Born to a policeman father, Lonsdale trained at Brewery Youth Theatre at the Brewery Arts Centre, Kendal. She took part in a large number of amateur productions, including plays by local playwrights John Newman-Holden and Tim Bull. After initial rejection, Lonsdale then graduated from the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama. Lonsdale is best known for playing police officer Emma Taylor on Coronation Street, later the wife of Curly Watts. Both characters left the programme in 2003.
She then took a regular part in the long-running television series The Bill. Lonsdale appeared as DI Eva Moore in the daytime BBC series Doctors. She left in October 2008, after her character was shot and presumed dead. She made a brief return to Doctors in September 2011. In 2012 and 2013 Lonsdale played the role of the mother in a family of wolves in children's TV drama Wolfblood.

Personal life
In 2005 Lonsdale married actor Perry Fenwick, who plays Billy Mitchell in EastEnders. They separated in 2010.

Filmography