Passage 1:
Cass Corridor
The Cass Corridor is the name of the neighborhoods on the west end of Midtown Detroit. It includes the Cass Park Historic District, the Cass-Davenport Historic District and Old Chinatown. The corridor's main street, Cass Avenue, runs parallel with M-1 (Woodward Avenue), a main Detroit artery running north toward New Center. Though Cass runs from Congress Street, ending a few miles farther north at West Grand Boulevard, the Cass Corridor generally is defined as between Interstate 75 (I-75) at its southern end and Interstate 94 (I-94) to the north, and stretches from Woodward to the east and to the west: John C. Lodge (M-10 service drive) north of Temple, and Grand River Avenue south of Temple.

History
Significant landmarks of the area include the Detroit Masonic Temple (the world's largest building of its kind), Cass Technical High School, and the Metropolitan Center for High Technology are all located along Cass. Little Caesars Arena, open since September 5, 2017, as the new home of the NHL's Detroit Red Wings and the NBA's Detroit Pistons, is on the west side of Woodward Avenue near I-75.
In the 1960s and '70s, the Cass Corridor became an area of cultural significance. Artists began renting cheap studio space in the Cass Corridor, which was near Detroit's Cultural Center Historic District. Artists associated with or influenced by the Cass Corridor artist movement include Brenda Goodman, Gary Grimshaw, Tyree Guyton, Charles McGee, Ann Mikolowski, Jim Pallas, Ellen Phelan, Gilda Snowden, Robert Wilbert, and Theo Wujcik.In the 1970s, the Cass Corridor was a poor neighborhood known for drugs, prostitution and sex crimes against children. The area was of significance in the Oakland County Child Killer case.Creem, which billed itself as "America's Only Rock 'n' Roll Magazine," had its headquarters in the area. The student population contributes to the bohemian atmosphere in Cass Corridor. The artistic community has produced a number of significant artists, including Sixto Rodriguez, Negative Approach and The White Stripes, who played their first show at the Gold Dollar.
Cass Corridor is also the location of the annual Dally in the Alley arts festival.Since the 2000s, Joel Landy, president of the Cass Avenue Development construction company, has renovated and remodelled several buildings in the Cass Corridor. Landy was also featured in the television series American Pickers (season 3 episode "Motor City", September 19, 2011). Since 1997, Avalon International Breads has been located in the Cass Corridor. In 2015, Jack White of the White Stripes, opened a retail store for his Record Label, Third Man Records at the Corner of Canfield and Cass.From 2009, Dr. Alesia Montgomery of Michigan State University conducted a 5-year study visualizing a reinvented Detroit as a green city, with a particular emphasis on the Cass Corridor.

See also
Chinatown Detroit
List of places named for Lewis Cass
Passage 2:
Possessed (roller coaster)
Possessed is an Inverted Impulse launched roller coaster located at Dorney Park & Wildwater Kingdom in Allentown, Pennsylvania. Manufactured by Intamin and designed by Werner Stengel, the roller coaster originally debuted at Six Flags Ohio amusement park as Superman: Ultimate Escape on May 5, 2000. After Cedar Fair purchased the park and renamed it back to Geauga Lake in early 2004, the coaster was immediately renamed Steel Venom. The ride closed in 2006 and was moved to Dorney Park. It reopened in 2008 briefly under the name Voodoo, and was renamed Possessed for the 2009 season. The model is identical to five other impulse coaster installations at other amusement parks. A larger version called Wicked Twister was located at Cedar Point until its closure in September 2021.

History
Geauga Lake era (2000–2006)
The ride opened on May 5, 2000 at Six Flags Ohio as Superman: Ultimate Escape. It was based on the DC Comics character Superman. Following Cedar Fair's acquisition of the park in 2004, in which the original Geauga Lake name was reinstituted to the park, all Looney Tunes and DC Comics branding owned by Six Flags was removed. In the process, the coaster was renamed Steel Venom, while receiving a new logo with a black background featuring a silver and purple snake. Even though Cedar Fair removed any mentions of Superman from the ride, the original blue, red, and yellow color scheme remained intact.The coaster was dismantled after the 2006 season and put into storage. At the end of the 2007 season, Cedar Fair announced the amusement park section of the park would close and the park would operate exclusively as Wildwater Kingdom. Many rides at the park were relocated to other parks in the Cedar Fair chain.

Dorney Park era (2007–present)
Steel Venom was relocated to Dorney Park, where it reopened as Voodoo several weeks into the 2008 season on May 17, 2008. Prior to opening at Dorney Park, it was repainted to its current color scheme, as shown in the picture above, the supports were repainted teal and the track was repainted yellow. In 2009, the name was changed to Possessed after Six Flags expressed concerns over the name Voodoo, which it had recently trademarked for another ride. Instead of challenging, Cedar Fair opted to appease Six Flags and rename the coaster. Cedar Fair turned the incident into a marketing opportunity, which focused on a story that the ride was overtaken by evil spirits, fitting in line with the ride's original theme.Possessed was closed for the entire 2020 season due to the COVID-19 pandemic. It reopened in 2021.

Design
The coaster's layout consists of two vertical spikes, one twisted and the other straight vertical with a holding brake, connected by a launch and station tract to form a basic "U" layout. The original ride began with riders being launched forward by the use of linear induction motors. After the initial launch, the train heads up the twisted vertical spike that twists the train 180 degrees. The train then falls and is launched backwards up the vertical spike. It shuttles back and forth three times. During the ride's initial years, the holding brake at the top of the vertical rear spike would engage on the final launch, locking the train in place for a very brief moment. This holding brake is no longer operational. Valleyfair's Steel Venom is currently the only Intamin impulse coaster in the United States still operating with its holding brake.
The maximum G-force of the ride is 3.7 Gs, expectantly low for a twisted impulse coaster.

Gallery
Passage 3:
Georgia Depression
The Georgia Depression is a depression in the Pacific Northwest region of western North America. The depression includes the lowland regions of southwestern British Columbia and northwestern Washington along the shores of the Salish Sea.

Formation
The Georgia Depression was formed out of the collision of continental plates about 150 million years ago. During this period, the depression manifested as a broad valley with various rivers flowing down into it to reach the Pacific Ocean where the mouth of the Strait of Juan de Fuca lies.Much of the current topography was formed through the erosion of the depression by the Cordilleran Ice Sheet during the Vashon Glaciation, which lasted from about 19,000 – 16,000 BP. The retreat of the ice sheet revealed a scarred landscape that filled in with sea water once it had retreated beyond what is now the Strait of Juan de Fuca, forming the Salish Sea.

Geography
The Georgia Depression is encompassed by the Pacific Ranges to the north, Vancouver Island Ranges and Olympic Mountains to the west, and North Cascades to the east. The depression includes the Fraser Lowland, Nanaimo and Nahwitti lowlands of Vancouver Island, Puget Sound basin, and all the islands and adjoining waterways of the Salish Sea.The majority of the population of British Columbia and Washington reside within this depression.

Geology
The landscape features glacially striated tablelands and rolling hills underlain by sedimentary rocks. The majority of soils in the depression are formed from glacial till, glacial outwash, and Lacustrine deposits.

Ecology
Much of the Georgia Depression is dry, flat, and at low elevation relative to the surrounding highlands. As such, a wide diversity of flora and fauna thrive within the depression.Human activity has greatly altered much of the natural environment here through industrialization, agriculture, forestry, urbanization, and suburban sprawl.

See also
List of physiogeographic regions of British Columbia
Royal eponyms in Canada
Passage 4:
Steel Venom (Valleyfair)
Steel Venom is an inverted launched roller coaster located at Valleyfair amusement park in Shakopee, Minnesota, United States. The Impulse Coaster model from Intamin, which opened in 2003, reaches a height of 185 feet (56 m) and a maximum speed of 68 mph (109 km/h).

History
Valleyfair unveiled Steel Venom in September 2002, a new roller coaster for the 2003 season manufactured by Intamin. It is an Impulse Coaster model, compact by design, and is also both Valleyfair’s and Minnesota’s first and only launch coaster. Steel Venom opened to the public on May 17, 2003.

Ride description
The coaster's single seven-car (28-passenger) train runs along a 200 m (656 ft) U-shaped track, incorporating two 185-foot (56 m) vertical spikes.  The forward spike incorporates a twisted spiral, and the rearward spike provides a straight freefall.  The 20 m (65 ft) train, propelled by linear induction motors (LIMs,) is accelerated in less than four seconds to 68 mph (109 km/h) toward the forward tower before dropping back down through the station house and up the rearward tower.  A holding brake is incorporated on the rear straight tower and is able to suspend the train momentarily (usually on the final ascent during each ride) before dropping it back down to the station house.
Passage 5:
Alouette Lake
Alouette Lake, originally Lillooet Lake and not to be confused with the lake of that name farther north, is a lake and reservoir in Maple Ridge, British Columbia, Canada. It is located at the southeast foot of the mountain group known as the Golden Ears and is about 16 km in length on a northeast–southwest axis.  It and the Alouette River, formerly the Lillooet River, were renamed in 1914 to avoid confusion with the larger river and lake farther north, with "Alouette", the French word for "lark", being chosen as being melodious and reminiscent of the original name in tone.
Most of the basin of Alouette Lake has never been logged and its north flank is protected as part of Golden Ears Provincial Park (formerly part of Garibaldi Provincial Park until that park's division). A small portion of the lake and its largely inaccessible northwestern shore, near its narrows, are actually part of the District of Mission due to the rectangular shape of that district's boundary.  North of the portion of the lake that is in Mission, the rest of its northern end is not in either municipality.

Alouette Dam
Originally only 2 km in length, the lake was considerably expanded by the 1928 construction of the Alouette Dam at 49°17′10″N 122°29′12″W, which is 11.5 km (7 mi) along the upper reaches of the South Alouette River. A 1,067 m (3,501 ft) long tunnel connects Alouette Lake and Stave Lake. At the end of the tunnel is a penstock which feeds the small Alouette Powerhouse, an 8 MW power station operated by BC Hydro, which lies midway along the west shore of Stave Lake.49°22′16″N 122°18′47″W There is no powerhouse at the dam, however, as the point of the reservoir is to feed the tunnel through the flank of the ridge between Mounts Crickmer and Robie Reid. A former railway grade leading to the dam along the river was also used as a logging railway.

Facilities
A large public beach, picnic site and campground that are part of the provincial park are located on the lake's western shore.
Passage 6:
Excalibur (Valleyfair)
Excalibur  is a steel roller coaster with a wooden structure located at Valleyfair in Shakopee, Minnesota. It was built in 1989 by Arrow Dynamics, for the cost of $3,000,000. The ride is 105 feet (32 m) tall with a top speed of 54.5 mph (87.7 km/h) and has a minimum height requirement of 48 inches. It follows a customized figure-eight track layout and is rather short for a major roller coaster, with a total ride duration of two minutes and thirteen seconds.A few years after the ride was built, trim brakes were added at the top of the first hill. The bottom and first half of the turn were re-profiled in an attempt to reduce roughness. The photo spot and the "Excalibur Photos" booth were also removed. The photo booth was replaced with a Refreshment stand, which has also been removed.

Potential closure
Valleyfair has applied for a permit with the US Army Corps of Engineers that includes the removal of Excalibur to be replaced by a road and parking lot.
"APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO discharge dredged and fill material into 4.52 acres of wetland for the purpose of constructing a new road around the park for employee access and for the construction of a new parking lot. The Valleyfair expansion project includes a proposed road relocation that will be used by park guests and primarily park employees to access nonpublic areas of the park and two parking areas, one for guests and one for staff."
Passage 7:
Bobo people
The Bobo are a Mande ethnic group living primarily in Burkina Faso, with some living north in Mali. Bobo is also a shortened name of the second-largest city in Burkina Faso, Bobo-Dioulasso.

Background
In much of the literature on African art, the group that lives in the area of Bobo-Dioulasso is called Bobo-Fing, literally "black Bobo". These people call themselves Bobo and speak the Bobo language, a Mande language. The Bambara people also call another ethnic group "Bobo", the Bobo-Oule/Wule, more precisely called the Bwa. While the Bwa (Bobo-Oule) are a Gur people, speaking Gur languages (the Bwa languages), the true Bobo (Bobo Madare, Bobo Fing) are a Mande people.

Demographics
The Bobo number about 110,000 people, with the great majority in Burkina Faso. The major Bobo community in the south is Bobo-Dioulasso, the second-largest city of Burkina Faso and the old French colonial capital. Further north are large towns, including Fô and Kouka, with Boura in the extreme north in Mali.
The Bobo are far from homogeneous. They are an ancient aggregation of several peoples who have assembled around a number of core clans that do not preserve any oral traditions of immigration into the area. Their language and culture are more closely related to those of their Mandé neighbours to the north and west, the Bamana (as well as the Minianka, also known as Mamara Senoufo, and a Gur people) than to their Voltaic neighbours the Gurunsi and Mossi, but they should be thought of as a southern extension of the Mandé people who live in what is now Burkina Faso, rather than an intrusive Mandé group that has recently penetrated the region. Although over 41% of Bobo lineages claim a foreign origin, they also say that they are autochthonous.

Economy
Farming among the Bobo is of primary importance. Agricultural activity is not merely a way of providing for subsistence among the Bobo, it is the essential component of their day-to-day existence. The major food crops are red sorghum, pearl millet, yams, and maize. They also cultivate cotton, which is sold to textile mills in Koudougou. The imposition of colonial rule and the construction of these mills led to the disintegration of the local co-operative labor systems, which had served to bond the members of Bobo society together.

Political system
The Bobo lineage is the fundamental social building-block. The Bobo are an inherently decentralized group of people. The concept of placing political power in the hands of an individual is foreign to the Bobo. Each village is organized according to the relationship among individual patriline. The lineage unites all descendants of a common ancestor, called the wakoma, a word whose stem, wa-, is a contraction of the Bobo word for house wasa. The Bobo lineage comprises the people who live in a common house. The head of a lineage is called the wakoma or father of the lineage. He may also be called the sapro, which is the term for ancestors. As among other peoples in Burkina, each clan has a totem, so that when a Bobo introduces himself he gives his given name, then his clan name, followed by the totem that he respects.

Religion
The creator god is called Wuro. He cannot be described and is not represented by sculptures. Bobo cosmogony describes the creation of the world by Wuro and the ordering of his creations. He is responsible for the ordering of all things in the world into opposing pairs: man/spirits, male/female, village/bush, culture/nature and so on.
The balances between forces as they were created by Wuro are precarious, and it is easy for men to throw the forces out of balance. Farming, for instance, can unbalance the precarious equilibrium between culture/nature and village/bush when the crops are gathered in the bush and brought into the village.
For the Bobo people there are two important epochs. The time of Wuro, when the universe was created and the historical time, when Wuro gave man his son Dwo.

Sources
Christopher Roy: Art of the Upper Volta Rivers. Traduction et adaptation en francais F.Chaffin. Alain et Françoise Chaffin, Meudon, 1987
Guy Le Moal : Les Bobo. Nature et fonction des masques. Musée royale de l'Afrique centrale, Tervuren, 1999.

External links

The Art of Burkina Faso by Christopher D. Roy
Passage 8:
Eureka, Nunavut
Eureka is a small research base on Fosheim Peninsula, Ellesmere Island, Qikiqtaaluk Region, in the Canadian territory of Nunavut. It is located on the north side of Slidre Fiord, which enters Eureka Sound farther west. It is the third-northernmost permanent research community in the world.  The only two farther north are Alert, which is also on Ellesmere Island, and Nord, in Greenland.  Eureka has the lowest average annual temperature and the lowest amount of precipitation of any weather station in Canada.
Eureka's postal code is X0A 0G0 and the area code is 867.

Divisions
The base consists of three areas:

the Eureka Aerodrome which includes "Fort Eureka" (the quarters for military personnel maintaining the island's communications equipment)
the Environment and Climate Change Canada Weather Station
the Polar Environment Atmospheric Research Laboratory (PEARL), formerly the Arctic Stratospheric Ozone Observatory (AStrO)PEARL is operated by a consortium of Canadian university researchers and government agencies known as the Canadian Network for Detection of Atmospheric Change. PEARL announced it would cease full-time year-round operation as of April 30, 2012, due to lack of funding, but this decision was reversed in May 2013 with the announcement of new funds.

History
Eureka was founded on April 7, 1947, as part of an initiative to set up a network of Arctic weather stations. On this date, 100 t (98 long tons; 110 short tons) of supplies were airlifted to a promising spot on Ellesmere Island, and five prefabricated Jamesway huts were constructed. Regular weather observations began on January 1, 1948. The station has expanded over the years. At its peak, in the 1970s, at least fifteen staff were on site; in 2005, it reported a permanent population of zero with at least 8 staff on a continuous rotational basis.Several generations of buildings have been developed. The latest operations centre, with work areas and staff quarters in one large structure, was completed in 2005.

Location and accessibility
The complex is powered by diesel generators. The station is supplied once every six weeks with fresh food and mail by air, and annually in the late summer, a supply ship from Montreal brings heavy supplies. On July 3, 2009, a Danish Challenger 604 MMA jet landed at Eureka's aerodrome.
The jet is a military observation aircraft based on the Challenger executive jet. This jet visited Eureka on a familiarization trip, in order to prepare for the possibility of Danish aircraft assisting in search and rescue missions over Canadian territory. The Canadian American Strategic Review noted critically that the first jet to fly a mission to Eureka was not Canadian.At Eureka's latitude, a geosynchronous communications satellite, if due south, would require an antenna to be pointed nearly horizontally; satellites farther east or west along that orbit would be below the horizon. Telephone access and television broadcasts arrived in 1982 when Operation Hurricane resulted in the establishment of a satellite receiving station at nearby Skull Point, which has an open view to the south. The low-power Channel 9 TV transmitter at Skull Point was the world's most northern TV station at the time. In the 1980s, TV audio was often connected to the telephone to feed CBC-TV news to CHAR-FM in isolated CFS Alert. More recently, CANDAC has installed what is likely the world's most northerly geosynchronous satellite ground-station to provide Internet-based communications to PEARL.Other inhabited places on Ellesmere Island include Alert and Grise Fiord.

Flora and fauna
Eureka has been described as "The Garden Spot of the Arctic" due to the flora and fauna abundant around the Eureka area, more so than anywhere else in the High Arctic. Fauna include muskox, Arctic wolves, Arctic foxes, Arctic hares, and lemmings. In addition, summer nesting geese, ducks, owls, loons, ravens, gulls and many other smaller birds nest, raise their young, and return south in August.

Climate
Eureka experiences a polar climate (ET). The settlement sees the midnight sun between April 10 and August 29, with no sunlight at all between mid-October and late February. Eureka has the lowest average annual temperature and least precipitation of any weather station in Canada with an annual mean temperature of −18.8 °C (−1.8 °F). Average winter temperatures are almost comparable to those found in northeastern Siberia. However, summers are slightly warmer than other places in the Canadian Arctic because Eureka is somewhat landlocked, being near the centre of Ellesmere Island. Even so, since record keeping began, the temperature has never exceeded 20.9 °C (69.6 °F), first reached on July 14, 2009. Although a polar desert, evaporation is also very low, which allows the limited moisture to be made available for plants and wildlife. Its frost-free  season averages 56 days, much longer than many other places nearby.

See also
List of research stations in the Arctic
Passage 9:
Battle of White Plains
The Battle of White Plains was a battle in the New York and New Jersey campaign of the American Revolutionary War, fought on October 28, 1776, near White Plains, New York.  Following the retreat of George Washington's Continental Army northward from New York City, British General William Howe landed troops in Westchester County, intending to cut off Washington's escape route.  Alerted to this move, Washington retreated farther, establishing a position in the village of White Plains but failed to establish firm control over local high ground.  Howe's troops drove Washington's troops from a hill near the village; following this loss, Washington ordered the Americans to retreat farther north.
Later British movements chased Washington across New Jersey and into Pennsylvania.  Washington then crossed the Delaware and surprised a brigade of Hessian troops in the December 26 Battle of Trenton.

Background
British General William Howe, after evacuating Boston in March 1776, regrouped in Halifax, Nova Scotia, and embarked in June on a campaign to gain control of New York City.  The campaign began with an unopposed landing on Staten Island in early July. British troops made another unopposed landing on Long Island on August 22, south of the areas where General George Washington's Continental Army had organized significant defenses around Brooklyn Heights.After losing the Battle of Long Island on August 27, General Washington and his army of 9,000 troops escaped on the night of August 29–30 to York Island (as Manhattan was then called).  General Howe followed up with a landing on Manhattan on September 15, but his advance was checked the next day at Harlem Heights.  After an abortive landing at Throg's Neck, he landed troops with some resistance at Pell's Point on October 18 to begin an encircling maneuver that was intended to trap Washington's army between that force, his troops in Manhattan, and the Hudson River, which was dominated by warships of the Royal Navy.  Howe established a camp at New Rochelle, but advance elements of his army were near Mamaroneck, only 7 miles (11 km) from White Plains, where there was a lightly defended Continental Army supply depot.

Prelude
On October 20, General Washington sent Colonel Rufus Putnam out on a reconnaissance mission from his camp at Harlem Heights.  Putnam discovered the general placement of the British troop locations and recognized the danger to the army and its supplies.  When he reported this to Washington that evening, Washington immediately dispatched Putnam with orders to Lord Stirling, whose troops were furthest north, to immediately march to White Plains.  They arrived at White Plains at 9 am on October 21, and were followed by other units of the army as the day progressed.  Washington decided to withdraw most of the army to White Plains, leaving a garrison of 1,200 men under Nathanael Greene to defend Fort Washington on Manhattan.  General Howe's army advanced slowly, with troops from his center and right moving along the road from New Rochelle to White Plains, while a unit of Loyalists occupied Mamaroneck.  The latter was attacked that night by a detachment of Lord Stirling's troops under John Haslet, who took more than thirty prisoners as well as supplies, but suffered several killed and 15 wounded.  As a result, Howe moved elements of his right wing to occupy Mamaroneck.  On October 22, Howe was reinforced by the landing at New Rochelle of an additional 8,000 troops under the command of Wilhelm von Knyphausen.
Washington established his headquarters at the Elijah Miller House in North White Plains on October 23, and chose a defensive position that he fortified with two lines of entrenchments. The trenches were situated on raised terrain, protected on the right by the swampy ground near the Bronx River, with steeper hills further back as a place of retreat. The American defenses were 3 miles (4.8 km) long. Beyond that, on the right, was Chatterton's Hill, which commanded the plain over which the British would have to advance. The hill was initially occupied by militia companies numbering several hundred, probably including John Brooks' Massachusetts militia company.On October 24 and 25, Howe's army moved from New Rochelle to Scarsdale, where they established a camp covering the eastern bank of the Bronx River.  This move was apparently made in the hopes of catching Charles Lee's column, which had to alter its route toward White Plains and execute a forced march at night to avoid them.  Howe remained at Scarsdale until the morning of October 28, when his forces marched toward White Plains, with British troops on the right under General Henry Clinton, and primarily Hessian troops on the left under General von Heister.

Composition of forces
British & Hessians
British
British troops involved included:
16th Regiment of (Light) Dragoons
17th Regiment of (Light) Dragoons
1st Battalion, Guards Brigade
2nd Battalion, Guards Brigade
5th Regiment of Foot (Northumberland Fusiliers)
23rd Regiment of Foot (Royal Welsh Fusiliers)
27th Regiment of Foot
28th Regiment of Foot
35th Regiment of Foot
42nd (Royal Highland, The Black Watch) Regiment of Foot
49th Regiment of Foot
52nd Regiment of Foot
No.1 Company, 4th Battalion, Royal Artillery
No.2 Company, 4th Battalion, Royal Artillery
No.4 Company, 4th Battalion, Royal Artillery (Specially thanked in General Orders)
No.5 Company, 4th Battalion, Royal Artillery (Thanked in General Orders)
No.8 Company, 4th Battalion, Royal Artillery (Thanked in General Orders)Hessians

Grenadier Regiment von Rahl
Fusilier Regiment von Knyphausen

Americans
American (continental) forces in the battle included:
Spencer's Division
Parson's Brigade under Brigadier General Samuel Holden Parsons
10th Continental Regiment (6th Connecticut)
20th Continental Regiment (20th Connecticut)
21st Continental Regiment (Ward's Militia)
Wadsworth's Brigade under Brigadier General James Wadsworth
Gay's Battalion
Douglas' Battalion
Delaware Regiment
1st New York Regiment
3rd New York Regiment
Maryland Regiment
Connecticut Regiment
Brook's New York Militia
Graham's Massachusetts Militia

Battle
While Washington was inspecting the terrain to determine where it was best to station his troops, messengers alerted him that the British were advancing. Returning to his headquarters, he ordered the 2nd Connecticut Regiment under Joseph Spencer out to slow the British advance, and sent Haslet and the 1st Delaware Regiment, along with Alexander McDougall's brigade (Rudolphus Ritzema's 3rd New York Regiment, Charles Webb's 19th Continental Regiment, William Smallwood's 1st Maryland Regiment, and the 1st New York Regiment and 2nd New York Regiments) to reinforce Chatterton Hill.Spencer's force advanced to a position on the old York road at Hart's corners (Hartsdale, New York) and there exchanged fire with the Hessians led by Colonel Johann Rall that were at the head of the British left column.  When Clinton's column threatened their flank, these companies were forced into a retreat across the Bronx River that was initially orderly with pauses to fire from behind stone walls while fire from the troops on Chatterton Hill covered their move, but turned into a rout with the appearance of dragoons.  Rall's troops attempted to gain the hill, but were repelled by fire from Haslet's troops and the militia, and retreated to a nearby hilltop on the same side of the river.  This concerted defense brought the entire British Army, which was maneuvering as if to attack the entire American line, to a stop.While Howe and his command conferred, the Hessian artillery on the left opened fire on the hilltop position, where they succeeded in driving the militia into a panicked retreat.  The arrival of McDougall and his brigade helped to rally them, and a defensive line was established, with the militia on the right and the Continentals arrayed along the top of the hill.  Howe finally issued orders, and while most of his army waited, a detachment of British and Hessian troops was sent to take the hill.The British attack was organized with Hessian regiments leading the assault.  Rall was to charge the American right, while a Hessian battalion under Colonel Carl von Donop (consisting of the Linsing, Mingerode, Lengereck, and Kochler grenadiers, and Donop's own chasseur regiment) was to attack the center. A British column under General Alexander Leslie (consisting of the 5th, 28th, 35th, and 49th Foot) was to attack the right.  Donop's force either had difficulty crossing the river, or was reluctant to do so, and elements of the British force were the first to cross the river.  Rall's charge scattered the militia on the American right, leaving the flank of the Maryland and New York regiments exposed as they poured musket fire onto the British attackers, which temporarily halted the British advance.  The exposure of their flank caused them to begin a fighting retreat, which progressively forced the remainder of the American line, which had engaged with the other segments of the British force, to give way and retreat.  Haslet's Delaware regiment, which anchored the American left, provided covering fire while the remaining troops retreated to the north, and were the last to leave the hill.  The fighting was intense, and both sides suffered significant casualties before the Continentals made a disciplined retreat.

Casualties
John Fortescue's History of the British Army says that Howe's casualties numbered 214 British and 99 Hessians. However, Rodney Atwood points out that Fortescue's figure for the Hessians includes the entire Hessian casualties from 19–28 October and that in fact only 53 of these casualties were incurred at the Battle of White Plains. This revised figure would give a total of 267 British and Hessians killed, wounded or missing at White Plains. Henry Dawson, on the other hand, gives Howe's loss as 47 killed, 182 wounded and 4 missing.
The American loss is uncertain. Theodore Savas and J. David Dameron give a range of 150–500 killed, wounded and captured. Samuel Roads numbers the casualties of 47 killed and 70 wounded. Henry Dawson estimates 50 killed, 150 wounded and 17 missing for McDougall's and Spencer's commands but has no information on the losses in Haslet's regiment.

Aftermath
The two generals remained where they were for two days, while Howe reinforced the position on Chatterton Hill, and Washington organized his army for retreat into the hills.  With the arrival of additional Hessian and Waldeck troops under Lord Percy on October 30, Howe planned to act against the Americans the following day.  However, a heavy rain fell the whole next day, and when Howe was finally prepared to act, he awoke to find that Washington had again eluded his grasp.Washington withdrew his army into the hills to the north on the night of October 31, establishing a camp near North Castle.  Howe chose not to follow, instead attempting without success to draw Washington out.  On November 5, he turned his army south to finish evicting Continental Army troops from Manhattan, a task he accomplished with the November 16 Battle of Fort Washington.Washington eventually crossed the Hudson River at Peekskill with most of his army, leaving New England regiments behind to guard supply stores and important river crossings.  Later, British movements chased him across New Jersey and into Pennsylvania, and the British established a chain of outposts across New Jersey. Washington, seeing an opportunity for a victory to boost the nation's morale,  crossed the Delaware and surprised Rall's troops in the December 26 Battle of Trenton.

Legacy
Each year on or near the anniversary date, the White Plains Historical Society hosts a commemoration of the event at the Jacob Purdy House in White Plains, New York.  Two ships in the United States Navy were named for the Battle of White Plains. CVE-66 was an escort carrier in World War II. AFS-4 was a combat stores ship that was decommissioned in 1995.According to some historians, the Headless Horseman depicted in Washington Irving's short story "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" was inspired by a real-life Hessian soldier who lost his head by cannon fire during this battle.

See also
List of American Revolutionary War battles
American Revolutionary War §British New York counter-offensive. The 'Battle of White Plains' placed in overall sequence and strategic context.

Notes
Bibliography
Major Francis Duncan, History of the Royal Regiment of Artillery, Volume II, 1873 London John Murray.
Fischer, David Hackett (2004). Washington's Crossing. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-517034-4. OCLC 186017328.
Digby Smith, Kevin E. Kiley, and Jeremy Black, An Illustrated Encyclopedia of Uniforms of the American War of Independence, 2017 Lorenz Books, London, United Kingdom. ISBN 978-0-7548-1761-1.

External links

The Battle of White Plains
White Plains Historical Society
Passage 10:
Wicked Twister
Wicked Twister was an inverted roller coaster located at Cedar Point amusement park in Sandusky, Ohio, United States. Designed by Werner Stengel, it was a second-generation, double-twisting Impulse model manufactured by Intamin. Wicked Twister opened as the tallest and fastest inverted coaster in the world on May 5, 2002. It was retired by the park on September 6, 2021, closed on September 7, and gave over 16 million rides during its lifetime.

History
Construction on Wicked Twister began on October 15, 2001, shortly after Stadium Games, formerly known as the Aquarium, was razed. The new coaster was officially announced the following month, and its media day was held on May 2, 2002.Billed as the tallest and fastest double-twisting impulse coaster ever built, Wicked Twister actually opened as the tallest and fastest inverted coaster in the world on May 5, 2002. It held both records until the opening of Legendary Twin Dragon at Chongqing Sunac Land in China in 2021. Additional supports were added to the ride's structure for the 2003 season. Two yellow supports were added to each spike to connect the track to the top of the main support structure.

In May 2021, park official Tony Clark implied in a series of tweets that Wicked Twister was going to be retired. This was confirmed on August 6, 2021, when Cedar Point officially announced the closure of Wicked Twister, scheduled for September 6, 2021. The ride then closed September 7, and on its last day of operation, park employees handed out "last launch" buttons to riders, sold limited-edition commemorative t-shirts, and gave away 16 "golden tickets" granting winners a spot on the last public train. Wicked Twister had accumulated over 16 million rides in 20 seasons of operation.On November 3, 2021, Cedar Point announced that Wicked Twister would be demolished. Demolition and removal was completed on February 8, 2022.

Ride details
Wicked Twister consisted of two 215 feet (66 m) tall spikes. Both ends of the track were designed with 450-degree vertical twists, referred to as the front and rear towers, which differentiated Wicked Twister from other Impulse Coaster models from Intamin. The loading platform and linear induction motor (LIM) propulsion system sat between the two towers along a horizontal track section. The ride was built directly on Cedar Point Beach, and its entrance plaza was located in the former Aquarium location. The track was painted yellow with teal supports.The ride featured one train that consisted of eight cars. Riders were arranged two across in two rows for a total of 32 riders. Wicked Twister's theme song was "The Winner" by the Crystal Method.

Layout
Linear induction motors propelled the train forward out of the station at 50 mph (80 km/h) during the first launch, which carried the train approximately halfway up the front tower. After coming to a stop, the train then fell and returned through the station, re-entering the LIM section and accelerating for a second launch to 63 mph (101 km/h) in the opposite direction. After climbing to its peak approximately halfway up the rear tower, the process would repeat a third time accelerating to 69 mph (111 km/h) and climbing to its highest point on the front tower.
A fourth and final LIM launch on the train's return through the station accelerated the train to its maximum speed of 72 mph (116 km/h), reaching a maximum height of 206 ft (63 m) up the rear tower. The train then made one more final pass through the station without any interaction from the LIM launch section and up the front spike. Subsequent passes through the station were met with the brakes being applied to slow the train slightly more each time until finally coming to rest.

See also
The Flash: Vertical Velocity – similar coaster located at Six Flags Great America
Possessed – similar coaster located at Dorney Park & Wildwater Kingdom
Steel Venom – similar coaster located at Valleyfair