Passage 1:
Anacardiaceae
The Anacardiaceae, commonly known as the cashew family or sumac family, are a family of flowering plants, including about 83 genera with about 860 known species. Members of the Anacardiaceae bear fruits that are drupes and in some cases produce urushiol, an irritant. The Anacardiaceae include numerous genera, several of which are economically important, notably cashew (in the type genus Anacardium), mango, Chinese lacquer tree,  yellow mombin, Peruvian pepper, poison ivy, poison oak, sumac, smoke tree, marula and cuachalalate.  The genus Pistacia (which includes the pistachio and mastic tree) is now included, but was previously placed in its own family, the Pistaciaceae.

Description
Trees or shrubs, each has inconspicuous flowers and resinous or milky sap that may be highly poisonous, as in black poisonwood and sometimes foul-smelling.Resin canals located in the inner fibrous bark of the fibrovascular system found in the plant's stems, roots, and leaves are characteristic of all members of this family; resin canals located in the pith are characteristic of many of the cashew family species and several species have them located in the primary cortex or the regular bark.  Tannin sacs are also widespread among the family.The wood of the Anacardiaceae has the frequent occurrence of simple small holes in the vessels, occasionally in some species side by side with scalariform holes (in Campnosperma, Micronychia, and Heeria argentea (Anaphrenium argenteum).  The simple pits are located along the vessel wall and in contact with the parenchyma.Leaves are deciduous or evergreen, usually alternate (rarely opposite), estipulate (without stipule) and imparipinnate (rarely paripinnate or bipinnate), usually with opposite leaflets (rarely alternate), while others are trifoliolate or simple or unifoliolate (very rarely simple leaves are palmate). Leaf architecture is very diverse. Primary venation is pinnate (rarely palmate). Secondary venation is eucamptodromous, brochidodromous, craspedodromous or cladodromous (rarely reticulodromous) Cladodromous venation, if present is considered diagnostic for Anacardiaceae.Flowers grow at the end of a branch or stem or at an angle from where the leaf joins the stem and have bracts.
Often with this family, bisexual and male flowers occur on some plants, and bisexual and female flowers are on others, or flowers have both stamens and pistils (perfect).  A calyx with three to seven cleft sepals and the same number of petals, occasionally no petals, overlap each other in the bud.  Stamens are twice as many or equal to the number of petals, inserted at the base of the fleshy ring or cup-shaped disk, and inserted below the pistil(s).
Stamen stalks are separate, and anthers are able to move.
Flowers have the ovary free, but the petals and stamen are borne on the calyx.
In the stamenate flowers, ovaries are single-celled.  In the pistillate flowers, ovaries are single or sometimes quadri- or quinticelled.  One to three styles and one ovule occur in each cavity.Fruits rarely open at maturity
and are most often drupes.Seed coats are very thin or are crust-like. Little or no endosperm is present.   Cotyledons are fleshy.
Seeds are solitary with no albumen around the embryo.

Taxonomy
History
In 1759, Bernard de Jussieu arranged the plants in the royal garden of the Trianon at Versailles, according to his own scheme. That classification included a description of an order called the Terebintaceæ, which contained a suborder that included Cassuvium (Anacardium), Anacardium (Semecarpus), Mangifera, Connarus, Rhus, and Rourea.  In 1789, Antoine Laurent de Jussieu, nephew of Bernard de Jussieu, published that classification scheme.Robert Brown described a subset of the Terebintaceae called Cassuvlæ or Anacardeæ in 1818, using the herbarium that was collected by Christen Smith during a fated expedition headed by James Hingston Tuckey to explore the River Congo.  The name and genera were based on the order with the same name that had been described by de Jussieu in 1759.  The herbarium from that expedition contained only one genus from the family, Rhus.Augustin Pyramus de Candolle in 1824, used Robert Brown's name Cassuvlæ or Anacardeæ, wrote another description of the group, and filled it with the genera Anacardium, Semecarpus, Holigarna, Mangifera, Buchanania, Pistacia, Astronium, Comocladia, and Picramnia.John Lindley described the "essential character" of the Anacardiaceæ, the "Cashew Tribe" in 1831, adopting the order that was described by de Jussieu, but abandoning the name Terebintaceæ.  He includes the genera that were found in de Candolle's Anacardieæ and Sumachineæ: Anacardium, Holigarna, Mangifera, Rhus, and Mauria.

Phylogeny
The genus Pistacia has sometimes been separated into its own family, the Pistaciaceae, based on the reduced flower structure, differences in pollen, and the feathery style of the flowers.The nature of its ovary, though,  does suggest it belongs in the Anacardiaceae, a position supported by morphological and molecular studies, and recent classifications have included Pistacia in the Anacardiaceae. The genus Abrahamia was separated from Protorhus in 2004.(Pell 2004)

Subdivision
The family has been treated as a series of five tribes by Engler, and later into subfamilies by Takhtajan, as Anacardioideae (including tribes Anacardieae, Dobineae, Rhoideae, and Semecarpeae) and Spondiadoideae (including tribe Spondiadeae). Pell's (2008) molecular analysis reinstated the two subfamilies without further division into tribes (Pell 2004). Later, Min and Barfod, in the Flora of China (2008) reinstated the five tribes (four in Anacardioideae), and the single tribe Spondiadeae as Spondiadoideae.

Selected genera
Ecology
The cashew family is more abundant in warm or tropical regions with only a few species living in the temperate zones. Mostly native to tropical Americas, Africa and India.  Pistacia and some species of Rhus can be found in southern Europe,  Rhus species can be found in much of North America and Schinus inhabits South America exclusively.

Uses
Members of this family produce cashew and pistachio nuts, and mango and marula fruits.Some members produce a viscous or adhesive fluid which turns black and is used as a varnish or for tanning and even as a mordant for red dyes. The sap of Toxicodendron vernicifluum is used to make lacquer for lacquerware and similar products.

Etymology
The name Anacardium, originally from the Greek, refers to the nut, core or heart of the fruit, which is outwardly located: ana means "upward" and -cardium means "heart").
Passage 2:
Commiphora gileadensis
Commiphora gileadensis, the Arabian balsam tree, is a shrub species in the genus Commiphora growing in Saudi Arabia, Yemen, southern Oman, Sudan and in southeast Egypt where it may have been introduced. Other common names for the plant include balm of Gilead and Mecca myrrh, but this is due to historical confusion between several plants and the historically important expensive perfumes and drugs obtained from them.

True balm of Gilead was very rare, and appears to have been produced from the unrelated tree Pistacia lentiscus. The Commiphora gileadensis species also used to include Commiphora foliacea, however it was identified and described as a separate species

Use
Historical
The plant was renowned for the expensive perfume that was thought to be produced from it, as well as for exceptional medicinal properties that were attributed to its sap, wood, bark, and seeds. Commiphora gileadensis is instantly recognisable by the pleasant smell given out when a twig is broken or a leaf crushed.

Modern
The bark of the balsam tree is cut to cause the sap to flow out. This soon hardens, and has a sweet smell that quickly evaporates. The hardened resinous gum is chewed, is said to taste either like a lemon or like pine resin, and it is also burned as incense.

Description
Depending on where Commiphora gileadensis is growing, it can vary in size, ranging from a small-leaved shrub to a large-leaved tree usually up to 4m tall.  It is rarely spiny, bark peeling or flaking when cut and exuding a pleasant smelling resin. Its leaves alternate on short condensed side shoots, pinnate with 3-5 leaflets.  The leaflets are oblong, 5-40mm long x 3-35mm across with acute tips and are thinly hairy.  The flowers are red, sub-sessile and the plant has 1-5 of them on short condensed side shoots amongst the leaves. The fruits are dull red and marked with four longitudinal white stripes, one-seeded and splitting into 2-4 valves.
Passage 3:
Pistacia
Pistacia is a genus of flowering plants in the cashew family, Anacardiaceae. It contains 10 to 20 species that are native to Africa and Eurasia from the Canary Islands, all of Africa, and southern Europe, warm and semidesert areas across Asia, and North America from Mexico to warm and semidesert United States, such as Texas or California.

Description
Pistacia plants are shrubs and small trees growing to 5–15 m (16–49 ft) tall. The leaves are alternate, pinnately compound, and can be either evergreen or deciduous depending on species. All species are dioecious, but monoecious individuals of Pistacia atlantica have been noted. The genus is estimated to be about 80 million years old.It is a genus of flowering plants belonging to the family Anacardiaceae. The plants are dioecious, and have male and female trees independently; a viable population should have both sexes.Well-known species in the genus Pistacia include P. vera, the pistachio, grown for its edible seeds; P. terebinthus, from which terebinth resin, a turpentine, is produced; P. lentiscus, source of the plant resin mastic; and P. chinensis, the Chinese pistache, cultivated as an ornamental tree.

P. vera genome
Scientists from Iran and China assembled a draft genome of pistachio and resequenced 107 whole genomes, including 93 domestic and 14 wild individuals of P. vera and 35 other genomes from different wild Pistacia species. Integrating genomic and transcriptomic analyses revealed expanded gene families (e.g., cytochrome P450 and chitinase) and the jasmonic acid (JA) biosynthetic pathway that are likely involved in stress adaptation. Comparative population genomic analyses revealed that pistachio was domesticated about 8000 years ago, and that likely key genes for domestication are those involved in tree and seed size, which experienced artificial selection.

Species
Bursera simaruba (L.) Sarg. was formerly classified as P. simaruba L.

Ecology
The Pistacia species are vicarious Anacardiaceae with few species outside the Old World, and are mostly more adapted to water shortage and alkaline soil.Many plant species are adapted to desert or summer drought typical of Mediterranean climate, so have a high tolerance to saline soil. They grow well in water containing up to 3.0 to 4.0% of soluble salts. They are quite resilient in their ecological requirements, and can survive in temperatures ranging from −10 °C in winter to 45 °C in summer. They prefer places oriented toward the sun and well-drained soil, but grow well in the bottom of ravines. Though very hardy and drought resistant, Pistacia species grow slowly and only begin to bear fruit after about 7-10 years from planting, obtaining full development only after 15-20 years. The fruit ripens in the Mediterranean from August; only female trees have fruit.Although some species prefer moderate humidity, they do not grow well in high-humidity conditions. They are susceptible to root rot, molds, and fungi, and parasites attack if they receive too much water and the soil has insufficient drainage. They require a period of drought each year for proper development.
Their leaves are intensely bright green and leathery, with three to nine leaflets. The leaves are alternate, compound, and paripinnate.
The flowers are unisexual, apetalous, and grouped in clusters. The flowers range from purple to green. The fruit is a drupe, generally unpalatable to humans, the size of a pea, and red to brown in color, depending on the degree of maturation. The seeds do not have endosperm.
The seeds are eaten and dispersed by birds, for which they are a valuable resource because of the scarcity of food in some important times of year, as the time of breeding, migration, or the dry season. The commercial species of pistachio has larger fruits and is edible.The plants emit a bitter, resinous, or medicative smell, which in some species is very intense and aromatic. Some species develop "galls" that occur in the leaves and leaflets after the bite of insects. Although marred by the presence of galls, they are very vigorous and resistant plants that survive in degraded areas where other species have been eliminated. They multiply by seeds, stolons, and root shoots. Various species hybridize easily between them, and hybrid plants are difficult to identify.Some tree species (e.g. Pistacia aethiopica, Pistacia atlantica) can exist as small bushes and shrubs due to the extremes of their habitat, adverse conditions, or the excessive consumption by wildlife or livestock that hinders growth.Pistacia lentiscus is a very common plant related to P. terebinthus with which it hybridizes. P. terebinthus is more abundant in the mountains and inland in the Iberian Peninsula, and mastic is usually found more frequently in areas where the Mediterranean influence of the sea prevents or moderates frost. Some species with very small ranges cover only one or a group of islands in the Mediterranean. P. terebinthus is also found on the east coast of the Mediterranean, Syria, Lebanon, and Israel, filling the same ecological niche of these species. On the west coast of the Mediterranean, the Canary Islands, and the Middle East, it can be confused with Pistacia atlantica.Pistacia species are used as food plants by the larvae (caterpillars) of some species of Lepidoptera including the emperor moth.

Cultivation and uses
Best known as the pistachio, P. vera is a small tree native to Iran, grown for its edible seeds. The seeds of the other species were also eaten in prehistory, but are too small to have commercial value today.  Records of Pistacia from preclassical archaeological sites, and mentions in preclassical texts, always refer to one of these other species (often P. terebinthus).P. terebinthus (the terebinth), also a native of Iran, and the western Mediterranean countries, is tapped for turpentine. It is also common in the eastern Mediterranean countries.  Because terebinths have the ability to kill certain bacteria, terebinth resin was widely used as a preservative in ancient wine.  In the Zagros Mountains of Iran, in one of the earliest examples of winemaking, archaeologists discovered terebinth resin deposits from 5400 to 5000 BC in jars that also contained grape-juice residue.P. lentiscus, an evergreen shrub or small tree of the Mediterranean region, supplies a resin called mastic.P. chinensis (Chinese pistache), the most frost-tolerant species in the genus, is grown as an ornamental tree, valued for its bright red autumn leaf colour.
Passage 4:
Akbesia
Akbesia is a monotypic moth genus in the family Sphingidae erected by Walter Rothschild and Karl Jordan in 1903. Its only species, Akbesia davidi, the pistacia hawkmoth, was first described by Charles Oberthür in 1884. It is known from southern Turkey, northern Syria, northern Israel, western Jordan, south-eastern Turkey, north-eastern Iraq, south-eastern Georgia, northern Iran, eastern Afghanistan and Iranian Beluchistan. It may also occur across Azerbaijan, the Alborz Mountains of northern Iran, the Zagros Mountains of western and southern Iran, and northern Afghanistan. It often occurs in large numbers at certain sites in rocky, hilly areas supporting scattered trees and shrubs of Quercus, Olea, Ceratonia and Pistacia.
The wingspan is 60–70 mm. Although the adults do not feed, they will drink water if offered. There are two generations per year in Iran with adults on wing in April and from late July to August. In northern Iraq, adults are on from May to June and in August.
The larvae have been recorded feeding on Pistacia atlantica and terebinth (Pistacia terebinthus). Larvae have also been reared on Cotinus coggygria and Rhus coriaria.

Etymology
The genus is named after the town of Akbez (near Hassa) in Turkey.

Subspecies
Akbesia davidi davidi
Akbesia davidi gandhara de Freina & Geck, 2003 (Afghanistan)
Passage 5:
Dracula wallisii
Dracula wallisii is a species of orchid belonging to the genus Dracula. The species is found at altitudes of 1,600 to 2,600 m (5,200 to 8,500 ft) in Cordillera Central, Colombia. It is a common species, with large flowers that are often highly variable in form.The species was first discovered near Frontino, Antioquia, Colombia by the German plant collector Gustav Wallis in 1871. It was formally described in 1875 by the German orchidologist Heinrich Gustav Reichenbach who named it after Wallis.
Passage 6:
Terebinth
Pistacia terebinthus also called the terebinth  and the turpentine tree, is a deciduous tree species of the genus Pistacia, native to the Mediterranean region from the western regions of Morocco and Portugal to Greece and western and southeastern Turkey. At one time terebinths growing on the eastern shores of the Mediterranean Sea (in Syria, Lebanon and Israel) were regarded as a separate species, Pistacia palaestina, but these are now considered to be a synonym of P. terebinthus.

Description
The terebinth is a deciduous flowering plant belonging to the cashew family, Anacardiaceae; a small tree or large shrub, it grows to 10 m (33 ft) tall. The leaves are compound, 10–20 cm (3.9–7.9 in) long, odd pinnate with five to eleven opposite glossy oval leaflets, the leaflets 2–6 cm (0.79–2.36 in) long and 1–3 cm (0.39–1.18 in) broad. The flowers are reddish-purple, appearing with the new leaves in early spring. The fruit consists of small, globular drupes 5–7 mm (0.20–0.28 in) long, red to black when ripe. All parts of the plant have a strong resinous smell.The terebinth is a dioecious tree, i.e. it exists as male and female specimens. For a viable population both sexes must be present. The oblong leaf is bright green, leathery, with 10 cm (3.9 in) long or more with three to nine leaflets. Leaves alternate, leathery and compound paripinnate (no terminal leaflet) with three or six deep green leaflets. They are generally larger and rounder than the leaves of the mastic, reminiscent of the leaves of carob tree. The flowers range from purple to green, the fruit is the size of a pea and turns from red to brown, depending on the degree of maturation. The whole plant emits a strong smell: bitter, resinous, or medicinal. In the vegetative period they develop "galls" shaped like a goat's horn (from which the plant gets the name "cornicabra", the common name in Spanish), that occur on the leaves and leaflets which have been bitten by insects. The species propagates by seeds and shoots. Although marred by the presence of galls, it is a very strong and resistant tree which survives in degraded areas where other species have been eliminated. Pistacia terebinthus is related to Pistacia lentiscus, with which it hybridizes frequently in contact zones. Pistacia terebinthus is more abundant in the mountains and inland and the mastic is usually found more frequently in areas where the Mediterranean influence of the sea moderates the climate. The mastic tree does not reach the size of the Pistacia terebinthus, but the hybrids are very difficult to distinguish. The mastic has winged stalks to its leaflets, i.e., the stalks are flattened and with side fins, whereas these stems in Pistacia terebinthus are simple. On the west coast of the Mediterranean, Canary Islands and Middle East, P. terebinthus can be confused with P. atlantica.

Habitat
The terebinth prefers relatively moist areas, up to 600 m (2,000 ft) in elevation. It tolerates Mediterranean summer drought and frost more intense than mastic does. The plant is common in the garrigue and maquis. It appears in deciduous oak wood. It has a gray trunk that is very aromatic, and may have multiple trunks or stems when grown as a shrub. Usually reaching 5 m (16 ft) in height, although in rare cases can reach 10 m (33 ft). P. terebinthus is one of the European species of Anacardiaceae, a family of about 600 mostly tropical species. It can be found to 1,500 m (4,900 ft) above sea level. P. terebinthus is more moisture demanding than the mastic and more resistant to cold. It requires a sunny exposure and average soils, tolerating lime and some salt, often grows near the sea, deep ravines and near salt-lakes and streams.

History
Historian of Mycenae John Chadwick believes that the terebinth is the plant called ki-ta-no in some of the Linear B tablets. He cites the work of a Spanish scholar, J.L. Melena, who had found "an ancient lexicon which showed that kritanos was another name for the turpentine tree, and that the Mycenaean spelling could represent a variant form of this word."The Latin name is underlain by the Ancient Greek name τερέβινθος which, in turn, is underlain by a pre-Greek Pelasgian word, marked by the characteristic consonant complex νθ.
Terebinth from Oricum is referred to in Virgil's Aeneid, Book 10, line 136, where Ascanius in battle is compared to "ivory skilfully inlaid in [...] Orician terebinth" ("inclusum[...] Oricia terebintho [...] ebur").
Terebinth is referred to by Robin Lane Fox in Alexander the Great: "When a Persian king took the throne, he attended Pasargadae, site of King Cyrus's tomb, and dressed in a rough leather uniform to eat a ritual meal of figs, sour milk and leaves of terebinth."The terebinth is mentioned in the Hebrew Scriptures (or Old Testament), where the Hebrew word elah (plural elot) is used, although the word is sometimes translated as 'oak'. It is clear that the translators are uncertain which translation is correct, [...], yet the two are very different trees to any but the most superficial observation. (The Hebrew word alon means 'oak', and the words may be related.) 
The word terebinth is found in three successive chapters of Genesis (12:6, 13:18, 14:13, 18:1) in reference to the places where Abram (later Abraham) camped called "Terebinths of Mam're the Amorite". Here, the traditional rendering in English is "oaks of Mamre."
It is also found in Genesis chapter 35, where Jacob commands his family to remove idols that were taken as booty from the battle in Shechem before travelling to Bethel.
Terebinths are also found in Isaiah in possible reference to idolatry associated with the trees, although in the Septuagint and Vulgate the word is translated 'idols', as the plural of el.)

For you will be ashamed of the terebinths that you have taken pleasure in.
The best known clear reference to a terebinth (elah) in the Hebrew Scriptures is that of the Valley of Elah or 'Valley of the Terebinth' (עמק האלה), where David fought Goliath (1 Samuel 17:2, 17:19).
Later in 2 Samuel 18:9 David's rebellious son Absalom is caught in the terebinth tree and is killed by Joab's men, David's army.
At least a few references occur in Judges: chapter 4 (in reference to Heber, the Kenite, of the children of Hobab), chapter 6 (in reference to an angel of the Lord who came to visit Gideon—most versions use 'oak'), and Ch 9 (in reference to the crowning of Abimelech, by the terebinth of the pillar that was in Shechem—again most versions use 'oak'). This reference of Abimelech's crowning by an oak is actually referring to the Palestine oak, closely related to the Kermes oak (Quercus coccifera). The Hebrew distinguishes the Palestine oak and the terebinth. It is also mentioned in Hosea 4:13 when Hosea is talking about Israel's spiritual adultery by sacrificing to false gods and how to repent and be forgiven in Hosea 14.

Uses
The word "turpentine" was originally used for the exudate of terebinth trees (P. terebinthus and related species such as P. atlantica), now called Chian, Chios, or Cyprian turpentine, and it was later transferred to the crude turpentine (oleoresin) and the oil of turpentine (essential oil) of conifer trees. The word turpentine derives (via Old French and Latin) from the Greek word τερεβινθίνη (terebinthínē), the feminine form (to go with the feminine Greek word for resin) of an adjective τερεβίνθινος (terebínthinos), derived from the Greek noun τερέβινθος (terébinthos), the name for the terebinth tree. However, the main source of the terebinth turpentine is P. atlantica which produces abundant resin instead of P. terebinthus of which the amount of resin is limited.The fruits are used in Cyprus for baking of a specialty village bread. In Crete, where the plant is called tsikoudia, it is used to flavor the local variety of pomace brandy, also called tsikoudia. In the Northern Sporades the shoots are used as a vegetable (called tsitsíravla). The plant is rich in tannins and resinous substances and was used for its aromatic and medicinal properties in classical Greece. A mild sweet scented gum can be produced from the bark, and galls often found on the plant are used for tanning leather. A triterpene has been extracted from these galls. In Turkey, it is known as menengiç or bıttım. A coffee-like beverage, Kurdish coffee or menengiç kahvesi, is made from the roasted fruit, and a soap is made from the oil. Terebinth resin was used as a wine preservative in the entire ancient Near East, as proven by many findings in areas such as the foot of the Zagros Mountains and Middle Bronze Age Galilee.

Gallery
See also
Pistacia lentiscus
Mastic (plant resin)
Balm of Gilead
Passage 7:
Pistacia aethiopica
Pistacia aethiopica is an African and Arabia coast peninsula species of plant in the family Anacardiaceae. It is a dioecious evergreen shrub or tree of the pistacio genus, growing up to 20 m (66 ft) tall, adapted to the dry environment. It is found in Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, Somaliland, Tanzania, Uganda, and Yemen.

Description
It is an evergreen slow-growing tree that emits a  very intense smell: bitter, resinous or similar to medication. The tree reaches 5–15 m tall, and rarely is a shrub, often with multiple stems, the trunk of 0.6 m in diameter, and its bark color is brown-black and fissured. It has glabrous leathery leaves, with a thick cuticle. The leaves are aromatic, 4-16-18 foliolate, and glossy bright green. The leaves have rachis 10 cm long.
The tree is dioecious, with male and female trees producing different sex flowers. Both types of flowers are small and greenish. It grows slowly, becoming 1000 years old.

Ecology
It is found in dry evergreen forest (often with Juniperus and Olea - Euclea) and associated shrubs or wooded grassland, thickets of Buxus, deciduous with Combretum, Acacia and Barkey in soils of limestone, sandstone, or basalt, to an altitude of 900–2550 m. P. aethiopica have many adaptations to aridity, such as an advanced development of palisade tissue and extensive root growth. These adaptive traits allow species to grow in very harsh and dry areas with low rainfall. In the main part of its range in North and East Africa, the species is fairly common because is used for a variety of purposes, including timber, dye, fodder, agriculture and livestock food. An outlying subpopulation in Arabia is restricted to Jebel Iraf on the old North Yemen-South Yemen border. The species is thought to be extinct in Eritrea.
Passage 8:
Pistacia chinensis
Pistacia chinensis, the Chinese pistache (Chinese: 黄連木; pinyin: huángliánmù), is a small to medium-sized tree in the genus Pistacia in the cashew family Anacardiaceae, native to central and western China. This species is planted as a street tree in temperate areas worldwide due to its attractive fruit and autumn foliage.

Description
It is hardy, can withstand harsh conditions and poor quality soils, and grows up to 20 m (66 ft). The leaves are deciduous, alternate, pinnate, 20–25 cm long, with 10 or 12 leaflets, the terminal leaflet usually absent. The flowers are produced in panicles 15–20 cm (5.9–7.9 in) long at the ends of the branches; it is dioecious, with separate male and female plants.The fruit is a small red drupe, turning blue when ripe, containing a single seed.

Taxonomy
Synonyms include: Pistacia formosana Matsumura; P. philippinensis Merrill & Rolfe; Rhus argyi H. Léveillé; R. gummifera H. Léveillé.Some botanists merge Pistacia integerrima into this species as the subspecies P. chinensis ssp. integerrima, with the plants considered here then becoming the subspecies P. chinensis ssp. chinensis.

Distribution and habitat
Its native range is on hill and mountain forests on rocky soils at 100–3,600 m (330–11,810 ft) above sea level. It is found in Mainland China (excluding the far north and the far west) and Taiwan.

Ecology
Chinese pistache grows best in full sun, being intolerant of shade; it is the most frost-tolerant species of Pistacia, tolerating temperatures down to about -25 °C, yet it is most highly regarded in warm climates. It is planted for its impressive fall colors, which develop at least as far south as Orlando, Florida. In the low-elevation deserts of Arizona, it is the only tree whose leaves turn scarlet in fall.

Uses
It is a popular choice for street trees in urban settings because it is very drought tolerant and can survive harsh environments. It is also used as an understock for Pistacia vera. In China, the oil from the seeds is used for biodiesel production. The wood is used for production of furniture, and yields a yellow dye.It is also used in classical Chinese garden design.

Gallery
Passage 9:
Dracula (plant)
The orchid genus Dracula, abbreviated as Drac in horticultural trade, consists of 118 species native to Mexico, Central America, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. The name Dracula literally means "little dragon", an allusion to the mythical Count Dracula, a lead character in numerous vampire novels and films. The name was applied to the orchid because of the blood-red color of several of the species, and the strange aspect of the long spurs of the sepals.
The plants were once included in the genus Masdevallia, but became a separate genus in 1978. This genus has been placed in the subtribe Pleurothallidinae.

Description
They are epiphytic and terrestrial species distributed in Central America and the northwest Andes. Almost half the species are found in Ecuador. They prefer shade and rather cool temperatures.
These caespitose orchids grow in tufts from a short rhizome, with a dense pack of stems. They lack pseudobulbs. On each stem grows one large, thin, plicate leaf with a sharply defined midrib. These glabrous, light to dark green  leaves may be spongy, taking over the function of the missing pseudobulb. They are tipped with a mucro (a short tip).
The flower stalks grow either horizontally from the base of the plant or descend, often for great distances.  A few species grow upright flower stalks.  The long-tailed terminal flowers are basically triangular. The flowers are borne singly or successively. Three species (sodiroi, decussata/neisseniae, and papillosa) may have up to three simultaneously open flowers on a single stalk. In general, though, if there is more than one flower bud on the raceme, they open up with long intervals. These flowers have a weird aspect, due to the long tails on each sepal. The petals are small and somewhat thickened. Quite commonly, various species of Dracula are known for blooms resembling the faces of primates, a notable example being Dracula simia. However, this likeness to monkeys’ faces seems to be purely a natural coincidence to the primates living in the same forests. In fact, these flowers are pollinated by the common fungus gnat; the bloom’s lip is often quite large (for a Pleurothallid), and from the fungus gnat’s perspective, resembles an irresistible mushroom or fungus. Research by biologists at the University of Oregon indicates that D. lafleurii also possesses a uniquely volatile chemistry, similar to localized species of mushrooms. This mimicry attracts mushroom-associated flies which play a role in pollination. The basal part of the lip (hypochile) is cleft. The terminal part (epichile) is rounded and concave. The margins of the perianth are often fringed. There is a well-developed column with two pollinia.

Taxonomy
The species of Dracula have tentatively been divided into three subgenera, with sections and subsections within one of the subgenera.

Subgenus Dracula : This subgenus contains all the species of the genus except two exceptional species (D. sodiroi and D. xenos)
Section Andreettaea : Monotypic: Dracula andreettae
Section Chestertonia : two species: Dracula chestertonii, D. cutis-bufonis
Section Cochliopsia : Monotypic: Dracula cochliops
Section Dodsonia : Four species: Dracula dodsonii, D. insolita, D. iricolor, D. portillae
Section Dracula : largest section
Subsection Costatae : e.g. Dracula bella, D. vespertilio
Subsection Dracula :
Series Dracula : e.g. Dracula chimaera, D. tubeana, D. vampira
Series Grandiflorae-Parvilabiatae : e.g. Dracula gigas, D. platycrater
Series Parviflorae : e.g. Dracula houtteana, D. lotax
Subgenus Sodiroa : Two Dracula sodiroi, D. erythrocodon
Subgenus Xenosia : Monotypic : Dracula xenosDracula adrianae (Colombia)
Dracula alcithoe (SW. Colombia to NE. Ecuador)
Dracula amaliae (W. Colombia)
Dracula andreettae (W. Colombia to NE. Ecuador)
Dracula anthracina (NW. Colombia)
Dracula antonii (Colombia)
Dracula aphrodes (W. Colombia)
Dracula astuta (Costa Rica)
Dracula barrowii (Peru)
Dracula bella (WC. Colombia)
Dracula bellerophon (W. Colombia)
Dracula benedictii (WC. Colombia)
Dracula berthae (Colombia)
Dracula brangeri (C. Colombia)
Dracula callithrix  (Colombia)
Dracula carcinopsis (W. Colombia)
Dracula carlueri (Costa Rica)
Dracula chestertonii (W. Colombia)
Dracula chimaera (W. Colombia)
Dracula chiroptera (SW. Colombia to NE. Ecuador)
Dracula christineana (Ecuador)
Dracula circe (Colombia)
Dracula citrina (Colombia)
Dracula cochliops (SW. Colombia)
Dracula cordobae (SW. Ecuador)
Dracula cutis-bufonis (NW. Colombia)
Dracula dalessandroi (SE. Ecuador)
Dracula dalstroemii (NW. Ecuador)
Dracula decussata (Colombia)
Dracula deltoidea (SE. Ecuador)
Dracula deniseana (Peru)
Dracula diabola (Colombia)
Dracula diana (W. Colombia)
Dracula dodsonii (Colombia to NC. Ecuador)
Dracula erythrochaete (Costa Rica to W. Panama)
Dracula erythrocodon (Ecuador)
Dracula exasperata ( SW. Colombia)
Dracula fafnir (SE. Ecuador)
Dracula felix (SW. Colombia to NW. Ecuador)
Dracula fuligifera (C. Ecuador)
Dracula gastrophora (Ecuador)
Dracula gigas (W. Colombia to NW. Ecuador)
Dracula gorgona (W. Colombia)
Dracula gorgonella (Colombia)
Dracula hawleyi (NW. Ecuador)
Dracula hirsuta (SE. Ecuador)
Dracula hirtzii (SW. Colombia to NW. Ecuador)
Dracula houtteana (Colombia)
Dracula immunda (Panama)
Dracula inaequalis (W. Colombia)
Dracula incognita (Colombia)
Dracula inexperata (Costa Rica)
Dracula insolita (W. Colombia)
Dracula janetiae (C. Peru)
Dracula kareniae (Ecuador)
Dracula lafleurii (NW. Ecuador)
Dracula lehmanniana (SW. Colombia)
Dracula lemurella (Colombia)
Dracula leonum (Peru)
Dracula levii (SW. Colombia to NW. Ecuador)
Dracula ligiae (Colombia)
Dracula lindstroemii (NW. Ecuador)
Dracula lotax (Ecuador)
Dracula mantissa (SW. Colombia to NW. Ecuador)
Dracula marsupialis (NW. Ecuador)
Dracula mendozae Luer & V.N.M.Rao (Ecuador)
Dracula minax (Colombia)
Dracula mopsus (Ecuador)
Dracula morleyi (NW. Ecuador)
Dracula navarrorum (Ecuador)
Dracula nigritella (Ecuador)
Dracula nosferatu (Colombia)
Dracula nycterina (Colombia)
Dracula octavioi (SW. Colombia)
Dracula olmosii (Panama)
Dracula ophioceps (SW. Colombia)
Dracula orientalis (NE. Colombia)
Dracula ortiziana (W. Colombia)
Dracula papillosa (NW. Ecuador)
Dracula pholeodytes (NE. Colombia)
Dracula pileus (W. Colombia)
Dracula platycrater (Colombia)
Dracula polyphemus (NW. Ecuador)
Dracula portillae (SE. Ecuador)
Dracula posadarum (Colombia)
Dracula presbys (Colombia)
Dracula psittacina (Colombia)
Dracula psyche (NW. Ecuador)
Dracula pubescens (Ecuador)
Dracula pusilla (SE. Mexico to C. America)
Dracula radiella (NW. Ecuador)
Dracula radiosa (E. Colombia to NW. Ecuador)
Dracula rezekiana (Ecuador)
Dracula ripleyana (Costa Rica)
Dracula robledorum (Colombia)
Dracula rojasii (Colombia)
Dracula roezlii (W. Colombia)
Dracula saulii (Peru)
Dracula schudelii (Ecuador)
Dracula senex-furens(Colombia)
Dracula sergioi (Colombia)
Dracula severa (NW. Colombia)
Dracula sibundoyensis (SW. Colombia to NW. Ecuador)
Dracula sijmii (Ecuador)
Dracula simia (SE. Ecuador)
Dracula sodiroi (Ecuador)
Dracula syndactyla (SW. Colombia)
Dracula terborchii (Ecuador)
Dracula trichroma (W. Colombia to NW. Ecuador)
Dracula trinympharum (NW. Ecuador)
Dracula tsubotae (Colombia)
Dracula tubeana (Ecuador)
Dracula ubangina (Ecuador)
Dracula vampira (Ecuador)
Dracula veliziana (Colombia)
Dracula velutina (NW. Colombia)
Dracula venefica (W. Colombia)
Dracula venosa (W. Colombia to NW. Ecuador)
Dracula verticulosa (W. Colombia)
Dracula vespertilio (Nicaragua to NW. Ecuador)
Dracula villegasii (Colombia)
Dracula vinacea (NE. Colombia)
Dracula vlad-tepes (NE. Colombia)
Dracula wallisii (W. Colombia)
Dracula woolwardiae (Ecuador)
Dracula xenos (Colombia)

Hybrids
Dracula × anicula (D. cutis-bufonis × D. wallisii) (Colombia).
Dracula × radiosyndactyla (D. radiosa × D. syndactyla) (SW. Colombia).

Footnote
Passage 10:
Pistacia khinjuk
Pistacia khinjuk is a species of plant in the family Anacardiaceae native to Egypt, western Asia and parts of the Himalayas. The tree grows up to 10 metres. The epithet comes from the name for the plant in Balochistan, khinjuk (خنجک).