Passage 1:
Redwood City Daily News
The Redwood City Daily News was a free daily newspaper in Redwood City, California, United States, published 6 days a week with an average daily circulation of 8,000. The newspaper was founded August 9, 2000 by Dave Price and Jim Pavelich, who also published the Palo Alto Daily News. The Redwood City Daily News was adjudicated as a newspaper of general circulation by the San Mateo County Superior Court in 2001, enabling it to publish legal notices. Both the Palo Alto and Redwood City Daily News editions were distributed in large red newspaper racks and in stores, coffee shops, restaurants, schools and major workplaces. The Redwood City Daily News, along with five other Daily News editions, was sold to Knight Ridder on Feb. 15, 2005. After McClatchy's acquisition of Knight Ridder in early 2006, all six Daily News editions, including the Redwood City Daily News, were bundled with the San Jose Mercury News and sold to MediaNews Group of Denver, Colorado.
On November 12, 2004, the Redwood City Daily News became one of the first print media outlets in the United States to report late-breaking news of national interest. The trial of Scott Peterson for the murder of his wife Laci Peterson and their unborn son had taken place at the Redwood City courthouse, and less than an hour after the jury read their verdict the Daily News began circulation of an "extra" edition which announced the result.The surviving Daily News papers merged on April 7, 2009.
Passage 2:
Sawin Millett
Howard Sawin Millett Jr. (born October 8, 1937) is a Maine politician. A Republican, Millett served as the Commissioner of Administrative and Financial Services in the administration of Governor Paul LePage from 2011 to 2014. In January 2011, Millett was unanimously approved as Commissioner by the Maine Senate, with key Democrats also endorsing his appointment. In December 2011, a poll of policymakers by the Bangor Daily News ranked Millett as the ninth most influential person in Maine politics.

Government career
Millett served in the administrations of four separate governors (Longley, McKernan, King and LePage) with two different political affiliations (two Independents and two Republicans). Millett advanced in the field of education until he became commissioner of education for Maine's first independent governor, James Longley. He was appointed to the position in 1975 at the age of 37 and served until 1979. In 1979, Republican Governor John McKernan appointed Millett Commissioner of the state finance department. During his time in the McKernan administration, the government was shut down due to the inability to agree on a budget. He also served from 1995 to 2000 as Associate Commissioner of the Department of Mental Health/Mental Retardation and Substance Abuse Services for Independent Angus King. In 2011, Millett was unanimously confirmed as Commissioner of Administrative and Financial Services by the Maine Senate after being selected by Republican Paul LePage.
Millett announced his retirement on April 3, 2014, to be effective on May 30. He stated he wanted to spend more time with his family and in his hometown.  Governor LePage praised his service and knowledge of state budgeting. Millett retired in May 2014 and was replaced by Richard Rosen.

Legislative career
Millett first served in the legislature from 1969 to 1972. In 2002, Millett won a seat in the Maine House of Representatives. Unable to run for his seat again in 2010, he challenged John Patrick for Senate District 14 and was defeated. In 2018, he won election to the Maine House of Representatives from District 71.

Personal
Millett was born in Waterford, Maine in Oxford County, Maine and his family settled on a farm in Dixmont in Penobscot County when he was in fourth grade. Millett's father was a superintendent of schools and his mother was primarily a homemaker. He was one of five boys in his family. Millett, despite being an avid baseball fan and having lived his entire life in Maine, became a supporter of the St. Louis Cardinals during the 1946 World Series in which the Cardinals beat the Boston Red Sox. He graduated from Carmel High School in Carmel, Maine in 1955 and attended the same college as his father, Bates College. After graduating, he returned to Penobscot County and began teaching at Hermon High School. He continued teaching in the district until 1971.In 1977, while serving as Commissioner of Education, Millett and his wife bought a home in Manchester, Maine to cut down on his daily commute for work in Augusta, but the couple disliked living in a subdivision so much that he and his wife bought 25 acres of land next to his parents farm in Waterford and built a house to live in.  He could barely stand to address the Maine Senate during his 2011 confirmation hearing due to an infection after knee replacement surgery. Shortly after being appointed commissioner, Millett had to miss work due to a second infection in his knee; he was temporarily replaced by Ryan Low, who had served as Commissioner of Finance under Democrat John Baldacci. Low said of Millett "I would do just about anything for him...There's no one more of an expert on budgeting and legislative process; but even more than that, he's a genuinely nice person."
Passage 3:
Burlingame Daily News
The Burlingame Daily News was a free daily newspaper in Burlingame, California published six days a week with an average daily circulation of 7,000. The newspaper was founded August 9, 2000 by Dave Price (journalist) and Jim Pavelich, who also published the Palo Alto Daily News.

Distribution
Both papers were distributed in large red newspaper racks and in stores, coffee shops, restaurants, schools and major workplaces. 
Burlingame Daily News, along with five other Daily News editions, was sold to Knight Ridder in 2005. 
After McClatchy's acquisition of Knight Ridder in early 2006, all six Daily News editions, including the Burlingame Daily News, were bundled with the San Jose Mercury News and sold to MediaNews Group of Denver, Colorado. The surviving Daily News papers merged on April 7, 2009.

External links
Official site
Knight Ridder buys Daily News
Daily News publishers ride into sunset
Passage 4:
East Bay Daily News
The East Bay Daily News was a free daily newspaper in Berkeley, California published 5 days a week with an average daily circulation of 10,000. The newspaper was founded May 20, 2005 by journalist Dave Price and Jim Pavelich, who also published the Palo Alto Daily News. The East Bay Daily News was distributed in large red newspaper racks and in stores, coffee shops, restaurants, schools and major workplaces in Berkeley, Albany, Piedmont and Oakland. After McClatchy's acquisition of the paper's previous owner Knight Ridder in early 2006, the Palo Alto Daily News group, including the East Bay Daily News, was bundled with the San Jose Mercury News and sold to MediaNews Group of Denver, Colorado.

External links
East Bay Daily News Official Website
Passage 5:
Bangor Daily News
The Bangor Daily News is an American newspaper covering a large portion of central and eastern Maine, published six days per week in Bangor, Maine.
The Bangor Daily News was founded on June 18, 1889; it merged with the Bangor Whig and Courier in 1900. Also known as the News or the BDN, the paper is published by Bangor Publishing Company, a local family-owned company.
It has been owned by the Towle-Warren family for four generations; current publisher Richard J. Warren is the great-grandson of J. Norman Towle, who bought the paper in 1895. Since 2018, it has been the only independently owned daily newspaper in the state.

History
The Bangor Daily News's first issue was June 18, 1889; the main stockholder in the publishing company was Bangor shipping and logging businessman Thomas J. Stewart. Upon Stewart's death in 1890, his sons took control of the paper, which was originally a tabloid with "some news, but also plenty of gossip, lurid stories and scandals." In 1895, J. Norman Towle purchased the newspaper. Ownership of the paper remained in the family, and Towle's great-grandson Richard J. Warren remains the publisher today.The Bangor Daily News merged with the Bangor Whig & Courier in 1900, leaving two newspapers in the city: BDN and the Bangor Daily Commercial (which ceased publication in 1949). Towle's son-in-law Fred Jordan took control of the paper in 1929. Forty-six BDN staff members served in the U.S. forces during World War II, and the paper's managing editor John M. O'Connell was sent to Europe as a war correspondent. After Fred Jordan's death in 1947, his widow Lillis Towle Jordan became publisher. Richard K. Warren became publisher in 1955 and remained in that role until 1984, a time when the newspaper's circulation dramatically increased. It has only missed one day of delivery in its entire history. On New Year's Eve 1962, a massive blizzard dumped over three feet of snow on Bangor, with 20-foot snowdrifts that made it impossible for the delivery trucks to move.The newspaper's peak came in the mid-1980s, when Bangor Daily News had 150 reporters and editors and 150 other employees.  At the time, published seven regional editions of the newspaper throughout Maine, and in addition to its main office on Main Street in Bangor had news bureaus at Madawaska, Presque Isle, Houlton, Pittsfield, Calais, Machias, Rockland, Augusta and Ellsworth.In 1982, a reporter for the Bangor Daily News, Beurmond Banville, who ran a one-person news bureau for the paper in Madawaska, Maine, on the U.S.-Canada border, wrote about a pretrial hearing in a murder case in New Brunswick, Canada. After publishing an account of the restricted proceeding in BDN, Banville was convicted in a Canadian court for violating a publication ban, and was fined $160; in 1983, the Court of Appeal of New Brunswick upheld the conviction, but gave Banville an absolute discharge, meaning that he does not have any Canadian criminal record. Banville and the newspaper considered the Canadian court's ruling to be a prior restraint on freedom of the press, but decided not to further appeal considering the cost. The ruling appears in a textbook on Canadian media law.Richard J. Warren succeeded his father as editor in 1984; five years later, the newspaper moved its printing plant from Bangor to a new printing plant in Hampden (which was closed in 2013 and sold in 2015).The newspaper was an early adopter of a policy prohibiting tobacco advertising. As of 1993, the Bangor Daily News was one of fewer than twenty American newspapers that declined to accept ads for tobacco products.The newspaper launched its Web presence in 1997 at bangornews.com, later moving to bangordailynews.com in the 2000s. From 1997 to 2001, BDN acted as an Internet service provider in addition to a newspaper, working with two local, small telecommunications companies to provide dial-up Internet access to a few thousand people in Maine.BDN adopted an aggressive "digital-first" publishing strategy, and became the most-read online news source in the state; in 2011, the Portland Press Herald outsold BDN in print copies by a few thousand papers on an average weekday, but BDN's website had more than 100,000 unique visitors than the Press Herald's website.In 2008, the paper's editorial page director, Todd Benoit, was appointed BDN's director of new media; he later became  BDN's president and chief operating officer. In 2014, Richard J. Warren became publisher of the newspaper.  The company that owns and operates the newspaper, Bangor Publishing Co., expanded through acquisitions of Bangor Metro magazine (2014), Madawaska's St. John Valley Times (2015), and Fort Kent's Fiddlehead Focus (2016). The company also owns several weekly newspapers in Maine: the Presque Isle Star-Herald, Caribou Aroostook Republican and News, Dover-Foxcroft Piscataquis Observer, Houlton Pioneer Times, and Greater Bangor The Weekly.In 2011 and 2012, BDN established the partnerships The Maine Campus (the independent student newspaper at the University of Maine) and The Free Press (the student newspaper at the University of Southern Maine) through the BDN media partners program. The program involves a content-sharing agreement as well as training and Web hosting services provided by BDN to the student newspapers.In 2011, BDN hired an additional reporter to cover Greater Portland and reassigned another reporter to cover the southern mid-coast of Maine. Editor-in-chief Mike Dowd also named editorial-page editor Susan Young as "managing editor for investigative reporting and new initiatives" and appointed Tom Groening as editorial-page editor.The Bangor Daily News and The Quoddy Tides sought records under the Maine Freedom of Access Act of closed-door tribal councils of the Passamaquoddy Tribe relating to a proposed $500 million liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminal on tribal land at the Pleasant Point Reservation. A Maine court decided that the newspapers were not entitled to the records because the tribal officials' negotiations with the Oklahoma-based LNG developer were undertaken in the reservation's capacity as "a profit-making business rather than municipal governance" and were therefore not subjected to the Freedom of Access Act. The Maine Supreme Judicial Court unanimously affirmed the ruling in 2006. In 2013, Bangor Daily News reporters submitted a public records request to Maine's state government for public information that included the names and addresses of the holders of concealed-weapon permits. The request, made in furtherance of newsgathering, prompted a fierce uproar, and the newspaper dropped the request.In 2018, Bangor Daily News became the state's only independently owned daily newspaper in the state, after MaineToday Media, owned by Reade Brower, acquired additional newspapers in Maine. MaineToday now owns  seven of Maine's eight daily newspapers: the Portland Press Herald and Maine Sunday Telegram, the Times Record of Brunswick, the Journal Tribune of Biddeford, the Kennebec Journal in Augusta, the Morning Sentinel in Waterville, and the Coastal Journal in Bath. Although Brower's company does not own BDN, it does provide printing services for BDN.As of 2020, about half of BDN's journalists were based in Bangor, with the other half spread across Maine.In May 2022, the newsroom staff unionized with the Maine NewsGuild and won recognition from management.

Editorial stance
The Bangor Daily News's editorial stance has traditionally leaned toward conservatism and the Republican Party, in contrast to the Portland Press Herald, which was regarded as having a more liberal, pro-Democratic editorial stance. It historically endorsed Republican candidates for office, such as Barry Goldwater in the 1964 presidential election, but has also sometimes endorsed Democratic candidates. In the 1974 Maine gubernatorial election, the Bangor Daily News endorsed independent candidate James B. Longley: "The newspaper had always endorsed Republicans, so backing an independent was stunning." The endorsement was a major boost to Longley's candidacy. The paper also backed independent candidate Herman "Buddy" Frankland and Republican Susan Collins.BDN's editorial board endorsed Republican George W. Bush in the 2000 presidential election, but endorsed Democrat John Kerry over Bush in the 2004 presidential election. In 2008, BDN endorsed Democrat Barack Obama for president, Republican Susan Collins for Senate, and Democrats Mike Michaud and Chellie Pingree for Maine's congressional seats. The paper's editorial board endorsed Obama for re-election in 2012 over Republican challenger Mitt Romney.
Passage 6:
Lawrence Lockman
Lawrence E. Lockman is an American lumber worker, lobbyist and political activist from Amherst, Maine, who has served as a Republican member of the Maine House of Representatives since 2012. In 2020, Lockman ran for the Maine State Senate, challenging incumbent state Senator Kimberly Rosen in the Republican primary.

Background
Lockman is a 1967 graduate of Philadelphia-Montgomery Christian Academy in Jenkintown, Pennsylvania. He studied liberal arts at Covenant College in Lookout Mountain, Georgia and Pasadena City College in California. Around 1976, he began working at a sawmill in Passadumkeag, Maine.

Controversies
In 1975, Lockman stopped paying federal and state income taxes and founded a group called Maine Patriots which put forth various tax protester arguments and urged other Mainers to follow his example.In the mid-to-late 1980s, Lockman switched his emphasis to activism about HIV, the AIDS epidemic, and homosexuality. In a letter to the Lewiston Daily Sun, Lockman wrote "Clearly the practice of sodomy is learned behavior, and those addicted to this form of biologically-insane sex are at high risk for all manner of serious medical problems."In 1986 and 1988, Lockman ran in District 143 of the Maine House of Representatives against the incumbent Democrat Michael Michaud. He lost both, finishing with 639 votes to Michaud's 2,438.
In 1991, Lockman became one of the directors of the Pro Life Education Association, a Maine-based anti abortion organization.In a 1995 op-ed, Lockman warned of a "secret gay affirmative action plan," claiming "You can bet the rent money they will demand that employers set up goals and timetables to achieve 10 percent homosexual representation in the workforce and in government contracts."In a 1995 letter in the Sun Journal in Lewiston, a reader quoted a press statement by Lockman, then part of the Pro Life Education Association, saying, “If a woman has (the right to an abortion), why shouldn’t a man be free to use his superior strength to force himself on a woman? At least the rapist’s pursuit of sexual freedom doesn’t (in most cases) result in anyone’s death.” In 2012, Lockman was elected to the House's District 30, which included portions of Hancock and Washington counties, with 2188 votes to 2082 for Democrat Dennis Mahar. He was a strong supporter of Maine's governor Paul LePage, who was challenged for re-election in the 2014 race by Lockman's previous opponent, Michael Michaud (who in 2013 came out as gay) LePage was succeeded by Democrat Janet Mills in 2018.

Response to controversy
Lockman has released a statement saying "I have always been passionate about my beliefs, and years ago I said things that I regret. I hold no animosity toward anyone by virtue of their gender or sexual orientation, and today I am focused on ensuring freedom and economic prosperity for all Mainers."

Personal life
In 1990, Lockman was part of a group seeking to break the union at the Passadumkeag Stud Mill where he worked, a drive which was defeated by an 81 to 18 vote. He had worked there for sixteen years before leaving in 1992 to work as a territory manager in eastern Maine for the National Federation of Independent Business, a position he held until 2010. He now works as a territory manager in eastern and central Maine for National Write Your Congressman.
Lockman and his wife Debbie were married in 1974. They have four adult children and five grandchildren.
Passage 7:
Ralph W. 'Bud' Leavitt Jr.
Ralph W. "Bud" Leavitt Jr. (January 13, 1917 – December 20, 1994) was a Maine newspaperman who was executive sports editor of the Bangor Daily News, and a longtime outdoor columnist recognized statewide. In addition to his writing, Leavitt hosted one of Maine's earliest television shows, which was devoted to fishing, hunting and the out-of-doors. Leavitt's stature within the state  was such that columnist Roy Blount Jr. wrote of the Maine sportswriter that he "fishes with Ted Williams and Red Smith – or, rather, they trout-fish with him." An early conservationist and son of a paper mill union leader, Leavitt urged the state of Maine to acquire lands for public use; one such preserve is today named for the sportswriter and television personality.

Early life and career beginnings
Ralph W. Leavitt Jr. was born in Old Town, Maine, on January 13, 1917, to Ralph W. Leavitt Sr., union manager at Penobscot Chemical Fiber Company, and his wife Elise. Following graduation from Old Town High School, Leavitt went to work in the plant where his father was manager of the union – and quit the next day. "He didn't like getting all covered with dirt and sweat anywhere but on the athletic field", said Leavitt's cousin Alden Leavitt.
Following his one-day career in the industrial world, Leavitt went looking for other employment. He landed his first newspaper job at age 17 when he began writing for The Bangor Daily Commercial in 1934. At the outbreak of World War II, Leavitt joined the Army Air Corps as a civilian employee. Following the War, in 1946 Leavitt took a job as general sportswriter at the Bangor Daily News, with which he associated as sportswriter, sports editor and outdoor columnist for the next 48 years. Leavitt's retirement from his Maine newspaper duties was considered noteworthy enough that Maine Senator George J. Mitchell issued a statement about it.During his tenure as sports editor and outdoor columnist, Leavitt also occasionally filed stories to national publications, including Time magazine. High school graduate Leavitt's prose on sporting topics even turned up occasionally in the highbrow The New Yorker magazine. In its issue of June 25, 1979, The New Yorker quoted at length from sportswriter Leavitt's essay on fishing in Maine. "He wrote when the fog shuts out the land, it is like a pussy-footing cat laying down a paw", wrote the magazine, paraphrasing Leavitt's prose. Even Leavitt's admirers concede the columnist and sportswriter wasn't known for his adept turns of phrase. Some observers attributed his popularity in Maine to his no-nonsense, somewhat gruff style, in which he delivered the facts without embroidery.
Leavitt also frequently hunted and fished with his friend Nelson Bryant, outdoor columnist for The New York Times, who wrote about their jaunts in his newspaper. During this time, Leavitt began to make himself indispensable to the Bangor newspaper, where the owners noted that his presence on the sports pages came to embody for many readers the newspaper itself.In 1948 Leavitt began writing a daily outdoor column for the newspaper in addition to his sportswriter duties. The column, in which Leavitt discussed hunting and fishing and life in Maine, ran in the Bangor Daily News until November 30, 1994, – six years after Leavitt had retired as the paper's sports editor, and only weeks before the columnist's death from cancer.

The columnist and the television host
Leavitt hosted one of the first outdoor shows on national television. In 1953 Maine's first TV station went on the air, and asked Leavitt to anchor a show on the themes he wrote about in his column. The Bud Leavitt Show debuted that year as one of the first local programs on the air in Maine. For the next 20 years Leavitt appeared every Saturday night to talk about the pressing issues of a Maine outdoorsman: how to remove a fishhook; the death of a favorite dog; snoeshowing and moose hunting and salmon fishing. There was little that Bud Leavitt wouldn't fish for. When the salmon runs on the rivers of Maine and New Brunswick tapered off, Leavitt often took to the rips off Maine's Petit Manan Light, where he cast a fly to schools of 25-pound pollock.
That Leavitt's newspaper permitted him to appear on a competing news outlet startled no one. "They had to have him", said Bangor Daily News managing editor Mike Dowd of the demand for the popular columnist. "He had to have it. So [Leavitt] became multimedia before the term was invented."Leavitt's last show on local Maine television was taped in 1973, but in 1978 the Maine Public Broadcasting Network asked the sportswriter to host a new show. Leavitt's early broadcasts on Maine's TV airwaves were marked by the times. The balding, avuncular Leavitt closed each show with the homily, "Remember, the family that plays together stays together." And the show's trademark music jingle is still the subject of Mainers posting to internet message boards, recalling Saturday night with beans and biscuits, watching Bud Leavitt. That show, called Woods and Waters, went on to become a public TV sensation. Within a year it was broadcast nationally. The Outdoor Writers of America later rated it the nation's best outdoor-oriented program. The show's success launched the local Maine sportswriter into the national consciousness: Leavitt was featured as a guest several times on the ABC show American Sportsman, and was a frequent guest on national radio programs.
Sometimes Leavitt was joined on his Maine TV show by friends like broadcaster Curt Gowdy, or baseball players Brooks Robinson or Ted Williams. "He was to outdoor journalism what Norman Rockwell was to art", wrote longtime Bangor Daily News sports columnist Larry Mahoney. The comparison was apt. Leavitt was not known for his eloquent turns-of-phrase, but for his directness and lack of artifice—what some might call his "Maine-ness".
Thanks to his notoriety, Leavitt kept a running correspondence with people that he might never have met. His friendship with Albany, New York mayor Erastus Corning 2nd, for instance, lasted decades, and the pair's letters about angling are among the papers collected in Corning's archives.Leavitt's friendship with baseball player Ted Williams spanned decades, and the two were frequent fishing buddies. Leavitt had been sent to Boston's Fenway Park in 1939 to write about the Boston Red Sox, where he met Williams, then a first-year rookie already making a name for himself as a slugger. Overhearing that the cub sportswriter was from Maine, Williams asked about the fishing up north. A lifelong friendship ensued.
"One journalist with whom Williams had a genuine friendship was the late Bud Leavitt, former sports editor and outdoor writer for the Bangor Daily News", wrote Tony Chamberlain of The Boston Globe. "Leavitt fished often with Williams in the lakes and streams of Maine and Canada. Most of their fishing up north was for salmon, and Williams fished with Leavitt near the writer's home along the Penobscot River."

Recognition in Maine and later years
Leavitt's stature as a writer on some of Maine's favorite topics, and his weekly television presence made him one of the state's celebrities – in the days when the words "Maine" and "celebrity" were oxymorons. Once, on a bird hunting drive in northern Maine with his friends Curt Gowdy and Brooks Robinson, Leavitt got lost. He stopped at a local home where he saw several men talking in the driveway. After inquiring after directions, Leavitt gestured at his car. Did the local Mainers know either of the two men in his automobile, Leavitt asked the group."No, we don't", answered one man, "but we sure know who you are. You're Bud Leavitt!"
Even Maine Senator Edmund Muskie tested the limits of political muscle when he brushed against Leavitt's following. It was arranged for Muskie to go ice-fishing with Leavitt—or as Muskie adviser Clyde MacDonald Jr. put it, "possibly the greatest political event that could be arranged at that time." MacDonald lived next to columnist Leavitt, whom the Muskie aide inveigled to accompany Muskie on a fishing trip to an Ellsworth, Maine, lake. Muskie landed the prize-winning fish, headlined in the next day's Bangor newspaper. As Muskie recalled, his fishing trip with Leavitt made a deeper impression than most of his electoral efforts. "Muskie throughout the rest of his career would say, 'You know, I fought for Dickey-Lincoln [Dam], and I prevented them from closing Loring, but the thing that people talk about is that fish.'"Leavitt died on December 20, 1994, and his funeral mass was held in Bangor, not far from his home in Hampden, Maine, on December 26, 1994. His wife Barbara had predeceased him, dying five years prior in 1989. During his career, Leavitt wrote 13,104 columns for Maine newspapers, and a book called, simply, Twelve Months in Maine. Leavitt's essay most often collected in outdoor writing anthologies is "Hunting for Grouse and Woodcock" from his book Twelve Months in Maine. Following his death, the State of Maine named the Bud Leavitt Wildlife Management Area, 6,500 acres (26 km2) of upland forest 25 miles (40 km) northwest of Bangor, in honor of the sportswriter, a longtime advocate for conservation and public lands. In 2000, six years after Leavitt's death, the Maine Press Association posthumously inducted Leavitt into its Hall of Fame.Leavitt is interred, alongside his wife Barbara, at Lakeview Cemetery in Hampden, Maine.

Works
Bud Leavitt and Senator William S. Cohen, Bangor: The Twentieth Century, Vol. II, Images of America, Richard R. Shaw, Arcadia Publishing, 1997 ISBN 0-7385-3703-9
Twelve Months in Maine, Bud Leavitt, Bangor Publishing Company, Bangor, Maine, 1977
Passage 8:
The Daily News (Palo Alto)
The Daily News, originally the Palo Alto Daily News, is a free newspaper owned by MediaNews Group and located in Menlo Park. Founded in 1995, it was formerly published seven days a week and at one point had a circulation of 67,000 (a figure that included five zoned editions which no longer exist). The Daily News is distributed in red newspaper racks and in stores, coffee shops, restaurants, schools and major workplaces.  As of April 7, 2009 the paper ceased to be published as The Palo Alto Daily News and was consolidated with other San Francisco Peninsula Daily News titles; it published five days a week, Tuesday through Saturday. Weekday editions were delivered to selected homes. While continuing to publish daily online, The Daily News cut its print edition back to three days a week in 2013, and one day a week in 2015.

Format and content
Originally, the Daily News had a distinctive format with pages that were 16 inches long and 10.75 inches wide, dimensions which were thought to make the Daily News easier to hold than traditional broadsheet papers, but allow more stories to be published per page than a typical tabloid.
On May 5, 2009, the paper went to a smaller page size (11-1/4 by 11-3/8 inches) to save money. "The change also brands our newspaper as different than the local competition, and makes it easier for our on-the-go readers to carry around," an announcement to readers said. They now have a larger version than their original one, with different sections, like add-ins or inserts.
The newspaper prints a combination of local stories and news from a number of wire services including The Associated Press, Bay City News, The New York Times and McClatchy-Tribune (the former Knight-Ridder Tribune). Local columnists include John Angell Grant, Larry Magid and John Reid. Syndicated opinion columns include those by Bob Herbert, Thomas Friedman and Maureen Dowd.

History
The Palo Alto Daily News debuted on December 7, 1995, with an initial circulation of 3,000. Within nine months, the paper was in the black. The paper generates all of its revenue from advertising. The original publishers, Jim Pavelich and Dave Price, understood that the advertising would reach more potential customers if the paper were free and thus widely available.
The newspaper's press run is determined by consumer demand; by 1997, the circulation had nearly tripled to 10,000 copies a day.
On August 9, 2000, the newspaper expanded into San Mateo County by opening three dailies, the San Mateo Daily News, Redwood City Daily News and Burlingame Daily News. These became the first free daily newspapers in San Mateo County, although within two years, other free dailies started in that area, replicating the format of the Daily News.
On May 15, 2002, the Daily News launched the Los Gatos Daily News. In addition to Los Gatos, it served Saratoga, Campbell, Cupertino and western San Jose.
In the first quarter of 2003, the combined circulation of the Daily News reached 55,000 per day, and on March 23 a home-delivered Sunday edition was added.
On November 12, 2004, the Daily News beat the competition by putting out an "extra" minutes after a jury in Redwood City convicted Scott Peterson of murdering his wife Laci and their unborn son. Editors put the "Redwood City Daily News" flag at the top of the Extra because the trial was taking place in that city, but it was distributed in all of the communities served by the Daily News, including Palo Alto.
On February 15, 2005, Knight Ridder, then the nation's second-largest newspaper publisher, bought the Palo Alto Daily News and its four sister papers for $25 million. Price and Pavelich, the publishers, were asked to stay on during the transition, but they left by the end of the year.
In May 2005, the Daily News launched the East Bay Daily News, which served Berkeley, Emeryville, Piedmont, Albany and the Oakland neighborhood of Rockridge.
In January 2006, Shareef Dajani, formerly general manager of the Knight Ridder-owned Hills Newspapers, a group of weeklies in Alameda County, was named publisher. In March, Dajani fired editor Diana Diamond, a long-time Palo Altan who was also a columnist. Her dismissal triggered numerous letters-to-the-editor and the competing Palo Alto Weekly picked up her column. Dajani replaced Diamond with Lucinda Ryan, who had worked with him at the Hills Newspapers.
In March 2006, Knight Ridder agreed to be purchased by The McClatchy Company, owner of the Sacramento Bee among other papers. McClatchy later announced it would sell 12 of the 32 Knight Ridder dailies, including the San Jose Mercury News and two other regional papers, The Monterey County Herald and the Contra Costa Times. The Palo Alto Daily News, along with other papers, was included in the Mercury News' 'bundle,' to be sold as one entity. MediaNews Group, which already owned several area papers, agreed to acquire The Mercury News, Contra Costa Times, Monterey County Herald and the St. Paul Pioneer Press of Minnesota for $1 billion, with $263 million of that coming from the Hearst Corporation, owner of the San Francisco Chronicle. The two deals — the sale of Knight Ridder to McClatchy, and McClatchy's sale to MediaNews — closed in August 2006. However, a lawsuit filed by San Francisco real estate developer Clint Reilly challenged the sale on anti-trust grounds. The suit was settled with Hearst and MediaNews agreeing not to work together on national advertising or distribution.
In January 2007, Dajani was replaced by Carole Leigh Hutton, former editor and publisher of the Detroit Free Press when it was owned by Knight Ridder. When Knight Ridder sold the Free Press to Gannett on August 3, 2005, Hutton was named Knight Ridder's vice president of news, a position she held until the company folded in 2006.
In March 2007, former Oakland Tribune editor Mario Dianda replaced Lucinda Ryan as executive editor.
In May 2008, Daily News founders Dave Price and Jim Pavelich announced that they were reviving the original paper, in its original headquarters at 324 High St., under the name Palo Alto Daily Post.In June 2008, the Daily News laid off five newsroom workers and eliminated its Monday edition in Palo Alto and its Tuesday edition in San Mateo, Redwood City and Burlingame. Those three cities had lost their Monday edition two years earlier.In August 2008, it came to light that the Daily News had hired a company in India to manage writing, copy-editing and design of a weekly real-estate product.In April 2009, the Daily News dropped its Sunday edition and editions for San Mateo, Burlingame and Redwood City.
Passage 9:
Mildred Brown Schrumpf
Mildred Brown "Brownie" Schrumpf (January 24, 1903 – March 2, 2001) was an American home economist, food educator, and author. Named the "Unofficial Ambassador of Good Eating" by the Maine Department of Agriculture, she wrote a weekly food column for the Bangor Daily News from 1951 to 1994 promoting traditional Maine recipes. She was the main proponent of the claim that the chocolate brownie was invented in Bangor. She was inducted into the Maine Women's Hall of Fame in 1997.

Early life and education
Schrumpf was born Mildred Greely Brown on a farm in Readfield Depot, Maine, to Fred Brown and Nellie Mabel Gordon Brown. She was a member of the Kennebec County 4-H club and won a canning contest in her teens. After graduating from Winthrop High School in 1921, Schrumpfh attended the University of Maine – the first person in her family to go to college – and earned a bachelor's degree in home economics in 1925.

Career
Schrumpf began her career as a tester for home gas stoves for the Bangor Gas Company. She next worked as an assistant leader in 4-H clubs statewide and as the Penobscot County 4-H club agent through the 1930s, updating home demonstrators on "food preservation, kitchen design and farm life". In the 1940s, Schrumpf worked for the United States Department of Agriculture Extension Service, giving demonstrations and classes and also teaching "camp cookery to forestry students". She also taught home economics classes at the University of Maine.In the 1950s and 1960s, Schrumpf became the Maine Food Products Promoter for the Maine Department of Agriculture, and also did cooking demonstrations on television.

Food columnist
Schrumpf began writing a weekly food column called "Brownie's Kitchen" for the Bangor Daily News on August 31, 1951. Each column opened with remembrances of life in 20th-century Maine and featured traditional recipes, using simple ingredients that could be found in any Maine grocery. Although she initially eschewed the use of ready-made ingredients, Schrumpf later printed recipes using convenience foods, which were included in her second cookbook collection, Memories from Brownie's Kitchen (1989). She continued producing her column until April 4, 1994.

"Bangor Brownies"
Schrumpf received widespread publicity for her claim that the chocolate brownie was invented in Bangor, Maine. In its first edition (2007), The Oxford Companion to American Food and Drink refuted her premise that "Bangor housewives" had created the brownie. The Oxford Companion noted that while Schrumpf cited the inclusion of the recipe in the Girl's Welfare Cook Book published in Bangor in 1912 as proof of the brownie's origins, a Fannie Farmer cookbook published in 1905 already contained a recipe for the chewy chocolate treat. However, in its second edition (2013), The Oxford Encyclopedia of Food and Drink in America said it had discovered evidence to support Schrumpf's claim, in the form of several 1904 cookbooks that listed a recipe for "Bangor Brownies".

Other activities
Schrumpf served as a judge for the Bangor State Fair and the national Pillsbury Bake-Off. She chaired the Maine Boiler Festival Chicken Barbecues and Luncheons, and headed delegations of Maine food demonstrators to the Eastern States Exposition in West Springfield, Massachusetts.She maintained a lifelong association with the University of Maine and its alumni association, serving as class secretary for 40 years. She provided many artifacts for the "Brownie's Kitchen" exhibit, a replica of an early 20th-century farmhouse kitchen, at the Page Farm & Home Museum on the university campus.

Honors and awards
The University of Maine alumni association awarded her its Black Bear Award in 1957 and Pine Tree Alumni Service Emblem in 1974. She was named Woman of the Year by the Maine Press, Radio and TV Women in 1968 and "Unofficial Ambassador of Good Eating" by the Maine Department of Agriculture in 1970. She received a Kiwanis Recognition in Service Award from the Orono-Old Town Kiwanis chapter in 1976 and an Achievement Citation Award from the Maine chapter of the American Association of University Women in 1989. She was inducted into the Maine Women's Hall of Fame in 1997.

Personal
Known for her lively and energetic personality, she was always happy to answer cooking questions and share recipe advice. As she advanced in years, her birthday celebrations were well-attended affairs that were said to "require traffic control"; for one "birthday bash", a 20-person committee coordinated the event.She married William E. Schrumpf, an agricultural economist at the University of Maine Agricultural Experimental Station, in 1932; he predeceased her in 1976. In her final years, she resided in a nursing home in Orono, where she died on March 2, 2001, at the age of 98.The Brownie and William E. Schrumpf Papers, including her extensive collection of Maine community cookbooks and recipe pamphlets, are housed in the special collections department of the Raymond H. Fogler Library at the University of Maine.

Works
Memories from Brownie's Kitchen: A collection of recipes compiled over thirty-seven years (2nd ed.). Bangor Publishing Company. 1989. ISBN 0962389005.
The Flavor of Maine: Recipes in honor of the bicentennial. Bangor Daily News. 1976.
"Maine's Own: Baked Bean Recipes". Maine Department of Agriculture. 1951.

Notes
Passage 10:
San Mateo Daily News
The San Mateo Daily News was a free daily newspaper in San Mateo, California published 6 days a week with an average daily circulation of 22,000. The newspaper was founded August 9, 2000 by Dave Price (journalist) and Jim Pavelich, who also published the Palo Alto Daily News. Both papers were distributed in large red newspaper racks and inside stores, coffee shops, restaurants, schools, and major workplaces. The San Mateo Daily News, along with five other Daily News editions, was sold to Knight Ridder on February 15, 2005. After McClatchy's acquisition of Knight Ridder in 2006, all six Daily News editions, including the San Mateo Daily News were bundled with the San Jose Mercury News and sold to MediaNews Group of Denver, Colorado. The surviving Daily News, papers merged on April 7, 2009.

External links
Knight Ridder buys Daily News
Daily News publishers ride into sunset