Passage 1:
François Englert
François, Baron Englert (French: [ɑ̃ɡlɛʁ]; born 6 November 1932) is a Belgian theoretical physicist and 2013 Nobel Prize laureate.
Englert is professor emeritus at the Université libre de Bruxelles (ULB), where he is a member of the Service de Physique Théorique. He is also a Sackler Professor by Special Appointment in the School of Physics and Astronomy at Tel Aviv University and a member of the Institute for Quantum Studies at Chapman University in California. He was awarded the 2010 J. J. Sakurai Prize for Theoretical Particle Physics (with Gerry Guralnik, C. R. Hagen, Tom Kibble, Peter Higgs, and Robert Brout), the Wolf Prize in Physics in 2004 (with Brout and Higgs) and the High Energy and Particle Prize of the European Physical Society (with Brout and Higgs) in 1997 for the mechanism which unifies short and long range interactions by generating massive gauge vector bosons.
Englert has made contributions in statistical physics, quantum field theory, cosmology, string theory and supergravity. He is the recipient of the 2013 Prince of Asturias Award in technical and scientific research, together with Peter Higgs and the CERN.
Englert was awarded the 2013 Nobel Prize in Physics, together with Peter Higgs for the discovery of the Brout-Englert-Higgs mechanism.

Early life
François Englert is a Holocaust survivor. He was born in a Belgian Jewish family. During the German occupation of Belgium in World War II, he had to conceal his Jewish identity and live in orphanages and children's homes in the towns of Dinant, Lustin, Stoumont and, finally, Annevoie-Rouillon.  These towns were eventually liberated by the US Army.

Academic career
He graduated as an electromechanical engineer in 1955 from the Free University of Brussels (ULB) where he received his PhD in physical sciences in 1959. From 1959 until 1961, he worked at Cornell University, first as a research associate of Robert Brout and then as assistant professor. He then returned to the ULB, where he became a university professor and was joined there by Robert Brout who, in 1980, with Englert coheaded the theoretical physics group. In 1998 Englert became professor emeritus. In 1984 Englert was first appointed as a Sackler Professor by Special Appointment in the School of Physics and Astronomy at Tel-Aviv University. Englert joined Chapman University's Institute for Quantum Studies in 2011, where he serves as a distinguished visiting professor.

The Brout–Englert–Higgs–Guralnik–Hagen–Kibble mechanism
Brout and Englert showed in 1964 that gauge vector fields, abelian and non-abelian, could acquire mass if empty space were endowed with a particular type of structure that one encounters in material systems. Focusing on the failure of the Goldstone theorem for gauge fields, Higgs reached essentially the same result. A third paper on the subject was written later in the same year by Gerald Guralnik, C. R. Hagen, and Tom Kibble. The three papers written on this boson discovery by Higgs, Englert and Brout, and Guralnik, Hagen, Kibble were each recognized as milestone papers for this discovery by Physical Review Letters 50th anniversary celebration. While each of these famous papers took similar approaches, the contributions and differences between the 1964 PRL symmetry breaking papers is noteworthy.
To illustrate the structure, consider a ferromagnet which is composed of atoms each equipped with a tiny magnet. When these magnets are lined up, the inside of the ferromagnet bears a strong analogy to the way empty space can be structured. Gauge vector fields that are sensitive to this structure of empty space can only propagate over a finite distance. Thus, they mediate short range interactions and acquire mass. Those fields that are not sensitive to the structure propagate unhindered. They remain massless and are responsible for the long range interactions. In this way, the mechanism accommodates within a single unified theory both short and long-range interactions.
Brout and Englert, Higgs, and Gerald Guralnik, C. R. Hagen, and Tom Kibble introduced as agent of the vacuum structure a scalar field (most often called the Higgs field) which many physicists view as the agent responsible for the masses of fundamental particles. Brout and Englert also showed that the mechanism may remain valid if the scalar field is replaced by a more structured agent such as a fermion condensate. Their approach led them to conjecture that the theory is renormalizable. The eventual proof of renormalizability, a major achievement of twentieth century physics, is due to Gerardus 't Hooft and Martinus Veltman who were awarded the 1999 Nobel Prize for this work. The Brout–Englert–Higgs–Guralnik–Hagen–Kibble mechanism is the building stone of the electroweak theory of elementary particles and laid the foundation of a unified view of the basic laws of nature.

Major awards
1978 First Prize in the International Gravity Contest (with R. Brout and E. Gunzig), awarded by the Gravity Research Foundation for the essay "The Causal Universe".
1982 Francqui Prize, awarded by the Francqui Foundation once every four years in exact sciences "For his contribution to the theoretical understanding of spontaneous symmetry breaking in the physics of fundamental interactions, where, with Robert Brout, he was the first to show that spontaneous symmetry breaking in gauge theories gives mass to the gauge particles, for his extensive contributions in other domains, such as solid state physics, statistical mechanics, quantum field theory, general relativity and cosmology, for the originality and the fundamental importance of these achievements".
1997 High Energy and Particle Physics Prize (with R. Brout and P.W. Higgs), awarded by the European Physical Society "For formulating for the first time a self-consistent theory of charged massive vector bosons which became the foundation of the electroweak theory of elementary particles".
2004 Wolf Prize in Physics (with R. Brout and P.W. Higgs), awarded by the Wolf Foundation "For pioneering work that has led to the insight of mass generation, whenever a local gauge symmetry is realized asymmetrically in the world of sub-atomic particles".
2010 J. J. Sakurai Prize for Theoretical Particle Physics (with Guralnik, Hagen, Kibble, Higgs, and Brout) awarded by The American Physical Society "For elucidation of the properties of spontaneous symmetry breaking in four-dimensional relativistic gauge theory and of the mechanism for the consistent generation of vector boson masses".
By Royal Decree of 8 July 2013 François Englert was ennobled a baron by King Albert II of Belgium.
2013 Nobel Prize in Physics, shared with Peter Higgs  "for the theoretical discovery of a mechanism that contributes to our understanding of the origin of mass of subatomic particles, and which recently was confirmed through the discovery of the predicted fundamental particle, by the ATLAS and CMS experiments at CERN’s Large Hadron Collider".
2013 Prince of Asturias Award for Technical and Scientific Research (with Peter Higgs and CERN) "for the theoretical prediction and experimental detection of the Higgs boson".

See also
List of Jewish Nobel laureates
Passage 2:
Paul D. Boyer
Paul Delos Boyer (July 31, 1918 – June 2, 2018) was an American biochemist, analytical chemist, and a professor of chemistry at University of California Los Angeles (UCLA). He shared the 1997 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for research on the "enzymatic mechanism underlying the biosynthesis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP)" (ATP synthase) with John E. Walker, making Boyer the first Utah-born Nobel laureate; the remainder of the Prize in that year was awarded to Danish chemist Jens Christian Skou for his discovery of the Na+/K+-ATPase.

Birth and education
Boyer was born in Provo, Utah. He grew up in a nonpracticing Mormon family. He attended Provo High School, where he was active in student government and the debating team. He was also his high schools valedictorian and played intramural basketball in high school and college. He received a B.S. in chemistry from Brigham Young University in 1939 and obtained a Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation Scholarship for graduate studies. Five days before leaving for Wisconsin, Paul married Lyda Whicker in 1939, and they remained married for nearly eighty years until his death in 2018, making him the longest-married Nobel laureate. The Boyers had three children.
Though the Boyers connected with the Mormon community in Wisconsin, they considered themselves "on the wayward fringe" and doubted the doctrinal claims of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church).  After experimenting with Unitarianism, Boyer eventually became an atheist. In 2003 he was one of 22 Nobel laureates who signed the Humanist Manifesto.

Academic career
After Boyer received his Ph.D. degree in biochemistry from the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1943, he spent years at Stanford University on a war-related research project dedicated to stabilization of serum albumin for transfusions. He began his independent research career at the University of Minnesota and introduced kinetic, isotopic, and chemical methods for investigating enzyme mechanisms. In 1955, he received a Guggenheim Fellowship and worked with Professor Hugo Theorell on the mechanism of alcohol dehydrogenase. In 1956, he accepted a Hill Foundation Professorship and moved to the medical campus of the University of Minnesota. In 1959–1960, he served as Chairman of the Biochemistry Section of the American Chemical Society (ACS) and in 1969-1970 as President of the American Society of Biological Chemists.
Since 1963, he had been a professor in the department of chemistry and biochemistry at University of California, Los Angeles. In 1965, he became the founding director of the Molecular Biology Institute and spearheaded the construction of the building and the organization of an interdepartmental Ph.D. program. This institutional service did not diminish the creativity and originality of his research program, which led to three postulates for the binding mechanism for ATP synthesis—that energy input was not used primarily to form ATP but to promote the binding of phosphate and mostly the release of tightly bound ATP; that three identical catalytic sites went through compulsory, sequential binding changes; and that the binding changes of the catalytic subunits, circularly arranged on the periphery of the enzyme, were driven by the rotation of a smaller internal subunit.
Paul Boyer was editor or associate editor of the Annual Review of Biochemistry from 1963 to 1989. He was editor of the classic series, "The Enzymes". When he worked on the series "The Enzymes", he was helped by his wife Lyda as she was a professional editor at UCLA. In 1981, he was faculty research lecturer at UCLA. In that same year, he was awarded the prestigious Tolman Medal by the Southern California Section of the American Chemical Society.

Death
Boyer died of respiratory failure on June 2, 2018, at the age of 99, less than two months shy of his 100th birthday at his Los Angeles home.

Publications
Dahms, A. S. & P. D. Boyer. "Occurrence and Characteristics of 18O-exchange Reactions Catalyzed By Sodium- and Potassium-dependent Adenosine Triphosphatases", University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), United States Department of Energy (through predecessor agency the Atomic Energy Commission), (1972).
Kanazawa, T. & P. D. Boyer. "Occurrence and Characteristics of a Rapid Exchange of Phosphate Oxygens Catalyzed by Sarcoplasmic Reticulum Vesicles", University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), United States Department of Energy (through predecessor agency the Atomic Energy Commission), (1972).
Boyer, P. D. "Isotopic Studies on Structure-function Relationships of Nucleic Acids and Enzymes. Three Year Progress Report, May 1972 — October 1975", University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), United States Department of Energy (through predecessor agency the Energy Research and Development Administration), (1975).
Boyer, P. D. "Energy Capture and Use in Plants and Bacteria. Final Technical Report", University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), United States Department of Energy, (December 31, 1993).

Awards and honors
Passage 3:
Vernon L. Smith
Vernon Lomax Smith (born January 1, 1927) is an American economist and professor of business economics and law at Chapman University. He was formerly a professor of economics at the University of Arizona, professor of economics and law at George Mason University, and a board member of the Mercatus Center. Along with Daniel Kahneman, Smith shared the 2002 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his contributions to behavioral economics and his work in the field of experimental economics. He worked to establish 'laboratory experiments as a tool in empirical economic analysis, especially in the study of alternative market mechanisms'.Smith is the founder and president of the International Foundation for Research in Experimental Economics, a Member of the Board of Advisors for The Independent Institute, a Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute in Washington D.C. In 2004 Smith was honored with an honorary doctoral degree at Universidad Francisco Marroquín, the institution that named the Vernon Smith Center for Experimental Economics Research after him. He was also a founding board member of the Center for Growth and Opportunity at Utah State University. As of 2023, Smith also sits on the Advisory Board for Florida Atlantic University's Madden Center for Value Creation.

Early life and education
Smith was born in Wichita, Kansas, where he attended Wichita North High School and Friends University. Grover Bougher, Vernon's mother's first husband, who worked as a fireman on the Santa Fe railroad, died in a tragic accident which proved to be pivotal. The life insurance money provided by the Santa Fe railroad was invested in a farm which became the sole means of survival for Vernon's family during the tough years of the Great Depression. While the farm brought hard work and hard times for Vernon's parents, Vernon liked the adventurous experiences. His life-long interest in learning how things work was kindled by his childhood at the farm.Smith received his bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from Caltech in 1949, an M.A. in economics from the University of Kansas in 1952, and his Ph.D. in economics from Harvard University in 1955.

Academic career
Smith's first teaching post was at the Krannert School of Management, Purdue University, which he held from 1955 until 1967, attaining the rank of full professor.Smith also taught as a visiting associate professor at Stanford University (1961–1962) and there made contact with Sidney Siegel, who was also doing work in experimental economics. Smith moved with his family to Massachusetts and got a position first at Brown University (1967–1968) and then at the University of Massachusetts (1968–1972). Smith also received appointments at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences (1972–1973) and Caltech (1973–1975).Much of the research that earned Smith the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences was conducted at the University of Arizona between 1976 and 2001. In 2001, Smith left Arizona for George Mason University. From 2003 to 2006, he held the Rasmuson Chair of Economics at the University of Alaska Anchorage. In 2008, Smith founded the Economic Science Institute at Chapman University in Orange, California.Smith has served on the board of editors of the American Economic Review, the Cato Journal, Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization, Science, Economic Theory, Economic Design, and the Journal of Economic Methodology. He also served as an expert for the Copenhagen Consensus.

Academic work
It was at Purdue that Smith's work in experimental economics began. As Smith describes it:

In the Autumn semester, 1955, I taught Principles of Economics, and found it a challenge to convey basic microeconomic theory to students. Why/how could any market approximate a competitive equilibrium? I resolved that on the first day of class the following semester, I would try running a market experiment that would give the students an opportunity to experience an actual market, and me the opportunity to observe one in which I knew, but they did not know what were the alleged driving conditions of supply and demand in that market.
In framing the experiment, Smith varied certain institutional parameters seen in the first classroom economics experiments as conducted by Edward Chamberlin: in particular, he ran the experiments for several trading periods, to give the student subjects time to train.At Caltech, Charles Plott encouraged Smith to formalize the methodology of experimental economics, which he did in two articles. In 1976, "Experimental Economics: Induced Value Theory" was published in the American Economic Review (AER). It was the first articulation of the principle behind economic experiments. Six years later, these principles were expanded in "Microeconomic Systems as an Experimental Science," also in the AER. This paper adapts the principles of mechanism design, a microeconomic system developed by Leonid Hurwicz, to the development of economic experiments. In Hurwicz's formulation, a microeconomic system consists of an economic environment, an economic institution (or economic mechanism), and an economic outcome. The economic environment is simply the preferences of the people in the economy and the production capabilities of the firms in the economy. The key insight in this formulation is that the economic outcome can be affected by the economic institution. The mechanism design provides a formal means for tests of the performance of an economic institution, and experimental economics, as developed by Smith, provided a means for formal empirical assessment of the performance of economic institutions. The second main contribution of the paper is to the technique of induced values, the method used in controlled laboratory experiments in economics, political science, and psychology, which allows experimental economists to create a replica of a market in a laboratory. Subjects in an experiment are told that they can produce a "commodity" at a cost and then sell it to buyers. The seller earns the difference between the price received and its cost. Buyers are told that the commodity has a value to them when they consume it, and they earn the difference between the value of the commodity to them and its price. Using the technique, Smith and his coauthors have examined the performance of alternative trading mechanisms in resource allocation.In February 2011, Smith participated in the "Visiting Scholars Series" at the Nicholas Academic Centers in Santa Ana, California, conducted in collaboration with Chapman University. Smith and his colleague Bart Wilson conducted experiments designed to expose high school students from underserved neighborhoods to market dynamics and how concepts such as altruism influence economic behavior.Smith has authored or coauthored articles and books on capital theory, finance, natural resource economics and experimental economics. He was also one of the first to propose the combinatorial auction design, with Stephen J. Rassenti and Robert L. Bulfin in 1982.In January 2009, Smith signed a public petition opposing the passage of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. In a 2010 Econ Journal Watch study, Smith was found to be one of the most active petition-signers among US economists.The Vernon Smith Prize for the Advancement of Austrian Economics is named after him and is sponsored by the European Center of Austrian Economics.

Personal life
In February 2005, Smith publicly attributed features of his personality to Asperger's syndrome after a process of self-diagnosis.

Works
Gjerstad, Steven D.; Smith, Vernon L. (2014). Rethinking Housing Bubbles. New York: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521198097.
Gjerstad, Steven; Smith, Vernon L. (2012). "At Home in the Great Recession".  In Miniter, Brendan (ed.). The 4% Solution: Unleashing the Economic Growth America Needs. New York: Crown Business. pp. 345–377. ISBN 9780307986146.
Gjerstad, Steven D.; Smith, Vernon L. (2013). "Balance Sheet Crises: Causes, Consequences, and Responses" (PDF). Cato Journal. 33 (3): 437–470. Retrieved 2017-10-21.
Plott, Charles R., and Vernon L. Smith, ed. (2008). Handbook of Experimental Economics Results, v. 1, Elsevier. Description and preview.
Rassenti, Stephen J.; Smith, Vernon L.; Bulfin, Robert L. (1982). "A Combinatorial Auction Mechanism for Airport Time Slot Allocation" (PDF). The Bell Journal of Economics. 13 (2): 402–417. doi:10.2307/3003463. JSTOR 3003463.
Smith, Vernon L. (1962). "An Experimental Study of Competitive Market Behavior". Journal of Political Economy. 70 (2): 111–137. doi:10.1086/258609. JSTOR 1861810. S2CID 54718519.
_____ (1976). "Experimental Economics: Induced Value Theory" (PDF). American Economic Review. 66 (2): 274–279.
Smith, Vernon L. (1980). "Relevance of Laboratory Experiments to Testing Resource Allocation Theory" (PDF).  In Kmenta, Jan; Ramsey, James B. (eds.). Evaluation of Econometric Models. Academic Press. pp. 345–377. ISBN 978-0-12-416550-2.
_____ (1982). "Microeconomic Systems as an Experimental Science" (PDF). American Economic Review. 72 (5): 923–955.
_____ (1991). Papers in Experimental Economics [1962–88],  Cambridge. Description and chapter-preview links.
_____ (2000). Bargaining and Market Behavior: Essays in Experimental Economics [1990–98], Cambridge. Description and chapter-preview links.
_____ (2003). Smith, Vernon L. (2003). "Constructivist and Ecological Rationality in Economics". American Economic Review. 93 (3): 465–508. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.501.5291. doi:10.1257/000282803322156954. S2CID 16505135.
_____ ([1987] 2008a). "experimental methods in economics." The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics, 2nd Edition, Abstract.
_____ (2008b). "experimental economics," The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics, 2nd Edition, Abstract.
Williams, Arlington W.; Ledyard, John O.; Gjerstad, Steven; Smith, Vernon L. (2000). "Concurrent Trading in Two Experimental Markets with Demand Interdependence". Economic Theory. 16 (3): 511–528. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.22.1763. doi:10.1007/s001990050002. JSTOR 25055346. S2CID 195227181. Reprinted in Timothy N. Cason and Charles Noussair, ed. (2001), Advances in Experimental Markets, pp. 15– 32.

See also
List of economists

Notes
External links
Dr. Vernon L Smith at Chapman University School of Law
Member of the Board of Advisors at The Independent Institute
Senior Fellow at Cato Institute
"Vernon L. Smith (1927– )". The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics. Library of Economics and Liberty (2nd ed.). Liberty Fund. 2008.
Roberts, Russ. "Vernon Smith Podcasts". EconTalk. Library of Economics and Liberty.
"Vernon L. Smith Papers, 1938–2007 and undated". Rubenstein Library, Duke University. Retrieved 2017-10-21.
Vernon L. Smith publications indexed by Google Scholar
Vernon L. Smith on Nobelprize.org

Articles
"Default is not the end of the world" Interview with Vernon Smith by Luis Martin (Winter 2011)
Reflections On Human Action After 50 Years by Vernon L. Smith, Cato Journal, Fall 1999
"Using Experiments to Inform the Privatization/Deregulation Movement in Electricity," by Stephen J.Rassenti, Vernon L. Smith, and Bart J.Wilson, Cato Journal, Winter 2002
The Clinton Housing Bubble, Vernon L. Smith, The Wall Street Journal, December 18, 2007
From Bubble to Depression?, Steven Gjerstad and Vernon L. Smith, The Wall Street Journal, April 6, 2009
Passage 4:
Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge
The Yusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry is the University of Cambridge's chemistry department. It was formed from a merger in the early 1980s of two separate departments that had moved into the Lensfield Road building decades earlier: the Department of Physical Chemistry (originally led by Professor Ronald Norrish FRS, Nobel Laureate; the department was previously located near the Old Cavendish in Free School Lane - see photo) and the Department of Chemistry (that included theoretical chemistry and which was led by Lord (Alexander) Todd FRS, Nobel Laureate) respectively. Research interests in the department cover a broad of chemistry ranging from molecular biology to geophysics. The department is located on the Lensfield Road, next to the Panton Arms on the South side of Cambridge. In December 2020, it was renamed for 30 years in recognition of a donation from Dr Yusuf Hamied, an alumnus of the department.

Research
The Department's research is organised around five Research Interest Groups (RIGs):
Biological Chemistry
Materials Chemistry
Physical and Atmospheric Chemistry
Synthetic Chemistry
TheoryIn addition, the Chemistry of Health Building houses the Centre for Misfolding Diseases, the Chemistry of Health Incubator and the Molecular Production and Characterisation Centre (MPACC).
Passage 5:
Chapman University
Chapman University is a private research university in Orange, California. It encompasses eleven schools and colleges and is classified among "R2: Doctoral Universities – High research activity".

History
Founded in Woodland, California, as Hesperian College, the school began classes on March 4, 1861. Its opening was timed to coincide with the hour of Abraham Lincoln's first inauguration. Hesperian admitted students regardless of sex or race.During its first decades of existence, the school relocated and changed names several times. The school initially relocated to Berkeley, California in 1896, merging with the Pierce Christian College (a school previously established in College City, California in 1874) to form the Berkeley Bible Seminary. Soon after, the school relocated to San Francisco and took on the name California Bible College. 
In 1920, the school moved again, this time to southern California, after its assets were acquired by the California Christian College,, a school that had been established by the  Southern California Convention in Long Beach, California in 1918. The two schools had been merged into a new institution called the California School of Christianity, located in Los Angeles. Three years later, in 1923, the school changed names yet again, back to the California Christian College.In 1934, the school was renamed to Chapman College after the chairman of its board of trustees (and primary benefactor), C. C. Chapman. In 1954, it moved to its present campus in the city of Orange on the site formerly occupied by Orange High School, which had relocated.Chapman established a Residence Education Center Program to serve military personnel in 1958. This evolved into Brandman University.
Chapman College became Chapman University in 1991. In that year, Dr. James L. Doti became president of Chapman University. Also in 1991, the Department of Education became the School of Education, now known as the Donna Ford Attallah College of Educational Studies, and the establishment of what is now known as Wilkinson College of Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences.The School of Film and Television, now Dodge College of Film and Media Arts opened in 1996. Between 2000 and 2010, Chapman University expanded to include the Rodgers Center for Holocaust Education, Leatherby Libraries, Fish Interfaith Center, Marion Knott Studios (The home of Dodge College of Film and Media Arts), the creation of the Argyros School's Economic Science Institute – led by Dr. Vernon L. Smith (2002 Nobel Prize winner in Economic Sciences, the Erin J. Anderson Athletics Complex and the Schmid College of Science and Technology. The Rinker Health Science Campus opened in Irvine, CA. in 2013, becoming the home for the School of Pharmacy. Mathematician Daniele C. Struppa became President in 2016, taking over for Dr. James L. Doti. In the same year, Musco Center for the Arts opened. The 1,110 seat concert hall draws more than 30,000 visitors per year and hosts both professional and student performances.Chapman opened the Keck Center for Science and engineering in 2018 with the Dale E. and Sarah Ann Fowler School of Engineering opening shortly after. Between 2018 and 2022, Chapman University earned a Carnegie Classification of R2: Doctoral University – High Research Activity, had its first Rhodes Scholar, Vidal Arroyo '19, and became nationally ranked by U.S. News & World Report.

Colleges and programs
Argyros School of Business and Economics
The George L. Argyros School of Business and Economics is located in the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Business and Technology Hall. Founded in 1977, the school is named after George L. Argyros, a Chapman alumnus and former U.S. Ambassador to Spain. Argyros has chaired the board of trustees of Chapman University since 1976, and has donated significant resources towards establishing Chapman as a leading national business school. The business school was renamed in Argyros' honor in 1999. In 2019 the Argyros School celebrated the 20th Anniversary of the naming of the school, capped off with a special fundraiser dinner on October 9, featuring special guest President George W. Bush. The event raised approximately $15 million for the school's endowment, $10 million of which was a surprise announcement by the Argyros family. The $15 million raised is believed to be the largest 1-day fundraising event in Orange County's history.The Argyros School offers undergraduate and graduate degrees in business, including the Master of Business Administration and Master of Science. In 2023 Argyros was ranked the #60 business school in the country by U.S. News & World Report.The Argyros School of Business and Economics was officially nationally ranked as the 60th Best Undergraduate Bloomberg BusinessWeek Business School in 2014. In 2016, the Argyros School of Business and Economics rose to 34th in the same Bloomberg rankings.
The Argyros School is home to several research centers and institutes, including the A. Gary Anderson Center for Economic Research, the C. Larry Hoag Center for Real Estate and Finance, the Ralph W. Leatherby Center for Entrepreneurship and Ethics, the Walter Schmid Center for International Business, the Economic Science Institute (founded by Nobel Prize winner Vernon L. Smith and others in 2008), the Institute for the Study of Religion, Economics and Society (founded by Dr. Laurence Iannaccone in September 2009), and the Smith Institute for Political Economy and Philosophy.The Leatherby Center for Entrepreneurship and Business Ethics is a program whose scope includes original research, scholarship, and the publication of several scholarly journals.

Donna Ford Attallah College of Educational Studies
Chapman University's Donna Ford Attallah College of Educational Studies offers an undergraduate Integrated Educational Studies (IES) degree; teaching, school counseling, and school psychology credentials; and graduate degrees in teaching, special education, school counseling, school psychology, and leadership, including a Ph.D. in education. The college is also home to various centers and programs for community engagement and research, including the Centro Comunitario de Educación, Paulo Freire Democratic Project (PFDP), and Thompson Policy Institute on Disability and Autism.The School of Education at Chapman University became the College of Educational Studies in August 2008. In 2017, the college was named in honor of Donna Ford Attallah. The current home of the Attallah College is Chapman's Reeves Hall, which was one of the first buildings constructed for Orange Union High School on the site in 1913, added to the National Register for Historic Places in 1975, and renovated and reopened to the public in February 2018.The Attallah College or its programs are accredited by the Council Accreditation of Educator Preparation, Commission on Teacher Credentialing, National Association of School Psychologists, and International School Psychology Association.

Dodge College of Film and Media Arts
The college has been recognized as one of the top ten film schools in the world and ranked #4 by The Hollywood Reporter among American film schools.

Crean College of Health and Behavioral Sciences
Formerly part of Chapman University's Schmid College of Science and Technology, the Crean College of Health and Behavioral Sciences officially became its own independent college at Chapman University on June 1, 2014.Undergraduate programs in Crean College of Health and Behavioral Sciences include B.S. Applied Human Physiology, B.S. Health Sciences, and B.A. Psychology. Graduate and post-baccalaureate programs include M.A. Marriage and Family Therapy (MFT), M.S. Communication Sciences & Disorders, a MMS Physician Assistant (set to open in 2015), a Doctor of Physical Therapy (PT) (accredited since 1928, making it one of the oldest such programs in the United States), and a Transitional Doctor of Physical Therapy.
The physical therapy, communication sciences & disorders, and physician assistant programs are housed on Chapman University's Harry and Diane Rinker Health Science Campus in Irvine, California.

Wilkinson College of Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences
Wilkinson College of Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences is the largest college at Chapman University and is composed of the departments of art, English, history, world languages and cultures, peace studies, philosophy, political science, religious studies, and sociology.

Dale E. Fowler School of Law
The Chapman University School of Law is located in Kennedy Hall. Law degrees offered include the Juris Doctor (J.D.) and Master of Laws (LL.M.) degrees in various specialties.  In 2022, John Eastman retired as Dean after more than 160 faculty members signed a letter calling for the university to take action against him for concocted a baseless theory and made false claims of fraud in an attempt to overturn the 2020 election.  Eastman is currently (June 2023) undergoing a hearing of disbarment in the State of California.

Dale E. and Sarah Ann Fowler School of Engineering
Since opening in fall 2019, the Chapman University school has grown to include undergraduate programs in computer science, data analytics, software engineering and game development programming. A minor in computer engineering is also available. The university launched a bachelor's degree program in computer engineering in fall 2020, electrical engineering in fall 2021, and a master's degree program in computer science in fall 2022. Further expansion targets programs in biomedical and environmental engineering.

College of Performing Arts
Chapman University's College of Performing Arts, founded in 2007, operates in divisions: the Hall-Musco Conservatory of Music, the Department of Dance, and the Department of Theatre. The Conservatory of Music offers a Bachelor of Music (B.M.), the Dance Department offers a Bachelor of Fine Arts (B.F.A) and a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.), and the Theatre Department offers the Bachelor of Arts (B.A.). The Theatre Department also offer two Bachelor of Fine Arts (B.F.A.) programs—Theatre Performance and Screen Acting—taught in conjunction with the Dodge Film School.

Schmid College of Science and Technology
Chapman University's Schmid College of Science and Technology was founded in 2008 when science-related degree programs (then housed in the Wilkinson School of Humanities and Social Sciences) were migrated to the new college. In 2014, the Schmid College underwent a reorganization to create the Crean College of Health and Behavioral Sciences. In 2019, the undergraduate programs computer science, data analytics, software engineering, and game development programming transferred out of Schmid College to start the new Fowler School of Engineering.
In addition to its undergraduate and graduate programs, Schmid College is home to various centers for research. Among them are the Center of Excellence in Computation, Algebra and Topology (CECAT), the Center of Excellence in Complex and Hyper-complex Analysis (CECHA) and the Center of Excellence in Earth Systems Modeling and Observations (CEESMO). Schmid College is also affiliated with the Institute for Quantum Studies, whose list of physicists, includes a 2013 Nobel Prize recipient and a 2010 Presidential Medal of Honor winner.Schmid College of Science and Technology recently expanded and moved into the new 140,000 sq. ft. Keck Center for Science and engineering on Chapman's main campus in Orange, California. The research facility contains 45 research and teaching labs, 50 faculty offices, seven student-collaboration spaces, and an outdoor amphitheater. The aesthetic of the building was inspired by the work of American architect, Frank Lloyd Wright.

School of Pharmacy
The Chapman University School of Pharmacy (CUSP) is located at the Rinker Campus in Irvine. Pharmacy degrees include the Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D.), a Master of Science in Pharmaceutical Science (MSPS), and a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Pharmaceutical Sciences. The Chapman School of Pharmacy also offers an accelerated five-year Doctor of Pharmacy program to qualified high school seniors.

School of Communication
The School of Communication is located on the university's main campus and housed within Doti Hall. The school currently consists of three undergraduate majors for students to choose from, including: BA in Communication Studies, BA in Strategic & Corporate Communication, and BA in Global Communication and World Languages (which allows students to study communication while also emphasizing in a particular language). The school also offers some graduate programs, including an MS in Health and Strategic Communication as well as a PhD program.

Fowler School of Engineering
The Fowler School of Engineering is the newest school within Chapman University. Majors within the school include a BS in Computer Engineering, BS in Computer Science, BS in Data Science, BS in Electrical Engineering, and BS in Software Engineering. Several other minors, such as Game Development Programming, are also housed within the school as well as several graduate programs. The school is housed in Chapman's new Swenson Hall of Engineering, which comprises various lab and maker spaces.

Rankings and admissions
In U.S. News & World Report's 2020 rankings of the best colleges in America, the university was moved from the master's-level universities in the Western region to the National Universities group, with a debut ranking of tied at 125th. The reclassification was due to Chapman's elevation to R2 status by Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education in recognition of its high research activity. U.S. News uses the Carnegie Classifications for its categorization of universities.
For U.S. News & World Report's 2021 rankings, Chapman University was ranked tied for 124th overall among national universities, tied for 39th among 73 national universities evaluated for "Best Undergraduate Teaching", tied for 68th out of 83 for "Most Innovative Schools", tied for 86th of 142 for "Best Colleges for Veterans", and tied at 224th of 389 schools for "Top Performers on Social Mobility". The business school was ranked tied for 74th, and the law school tied for 111th, in the U.S. for 2021For the Class of 2022 (enrolling fall 2018), Chapman received 14,198 applications, accepted 7,605 (53.6%), and enrolled 1,660. For the freshmen who enrolled, the average SAT score was 640 for reading and writing and 638 for math, while the average ACT composite score was 27.9. The average high school GPA was 3.75 (unweighted) on a 4.0 scale.

Holocaust education
The Barry and Phyllis Rodgers Center for Holocaust Education was founded by Marilyn Harran, Ph.D., in February 2000. It sponsors an annual Holocaust remembrance writing competition and hosts a regular Distinguished lecture series.The Sala and Aron Samueli Holocaust Memorial Library, funded by Henry Samueli, is located on the fourth floor of the university's Leatherby Libraries. On April 11, 2005, sixty years after he was liberated from the Buchenwald concentration camp, Elie Wiesel dedicated the Samueli Holocaust Memorial Library, and a large bust of Wiesel stands at the entrance to the facility.
The collection includes a first edition of The Diary of Anne Frank in Dutch.

Athletics
Chapman athletic teams are the Panthers. The university is a member of the Division III (non-scholarship) level of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), primarily competing in the Southern California Intercollegiate Athletic Conference (SCIAC) since the 2011–12 academic year; which they were a member on a previous stint from 1950–51 to 1951–52. The Panthers previously competed in the California Collegiate Athletic Association (CCAA) of the NCAA Division II ranks from to 1978–79 to 1992–93, and as an NCAA D-III Independent from 1993–94 to 2010–11.
Chapman competes in 21 intercollegiate varsity sports (10 men's and 11 women's): Men's sports include baseball, basketball, cross country, football, golf, soccer, swimming & diving, tennis, track & field and water polo; while women's sports include basketball, cross country, golf, lacrosse, soccer, softball, swimming & diving, tennis, track & field, volleyball and water polo.
Chapman University has won seven NCAA national titles. As a member of the NCAA Division II, the Panthers won one baseball title (1968) and three men's tennis titles (1985, 1987, 1988). After moving to NCAA Division III, the Panthers won the 1995 Division III softball championship and later the 2003 and 2019 Division III baseball championships.

Accomplishments
The Chapman softball team appeared in one Women's College World Series in 1979.In 2011, the women's lacrosse team won the WCLL National Championships in Arizona. In 2016, the men's lacrosse team won the MCLA National Championship.
In the 2014, 2017, and 2019 seasons, the Chapman University Panther football team ended their season undefeated in their conference and won the SCIAC championship.The 2019 men's baseball team defeated Birmingham-Southern College to become the DIII NCAA National Champions.In 2022, the men's soccer team won their first SCIAC championship. 
The football and basketball teams are broadcast by the Chapman Sports Broadcast Network (CSBN) to local Channel 6 in Orange and on Chapman's athletic website. CSBN is a student-run, student-produced independent sports network created by students at Chapman University's Dodge College of Film and Media arts.

Notable people
Current and former faculty
Yakir Aharonov – Professor, James J. Farley Professorship in Natural Philosophy; Wolf Prize and National Medal of Science recipient
Brian Alters – Professor and director, Evolution Education Research Center
Richard Bausch – Professor in Department of English
Andrew Carroll – Presidential Fellow in American War Letters; Founding Director of the Center for American War Letters
Martha Coolidge – Professor, Lawrence and Kristina Dodge College of Film and Media Arts; Emmy nominated film director; elected in 2001 as the first and only female president of the Directors Guild of America
George Csicsery – 2017–2019 Presidential Fellow
Grace Fong D.M.A. – director of Keyboard Studies at Conservatory of Music; winner of such honors as the 2006 Leeds International Piano Competition
Carolyn Forché – Presidential Fellow in Creative Writing; American poet
Kyle Harrison – Men's lacrosse assistant coach and professional lacrosse player
Hugh Hewitt – Professor, Dale E. Fowler School of Law; He served for six years in the Reagan Administration in a variety of posts including Assistant Counsel in the White House and Special Assistant to the Attorney General of the United States
Jack Horner – Presidential Fellow; technical adviser for all Jurassic Park movies and was Michael Crichton's basis for the Alan Grant character
Laurence Iannaccone – director, Institute for the Study of Religion, Economics, and Society; Professor of Economics
Cheryl Boone Isaacs – Lecturer, Lawrence and Kristina Dodge College of Film and Media Arts; serving third term as President of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences by the organization's Board of Governors; inducted into the NAACP Hall of Fame in 2014
Bill Kroyer – Professor, Director, Digital Arts Program; one of the first animators to make the leap to computer animation as computer image choreographer on Disney's ground-breaking 1982 feature, Tron.
Tibor Machan (1939–2016) – held the R. C. Hoiles Chair of Business Ethics and Free Enterprise, Argyros School of Business & Economics
Peter McLaren – Distinguished Professor in Critical Studies, Attallah College of Educational Studies
Prexy Nesbitt – Presidential Fellow in Peace Studies
Dimitar Ouzounov - Research professor of geophysics at Institute for Earth, Computing, Human and Observing (Institute for ECHO).
Michael Shermer – Presidential Fellow in General Education, author of numerous books and founder of The Skeptics Society
Rebecca Skloot – Presidential Fellow in Creative Science Writing
Mark Skousen – Professor, Mark Skousen, Ph.D., editor of Forecasts & Strategies, is a nationally known investment expert, economist, university professor and author of more than 25 books. In 2018, he was awarded the Triple Crown in Economics for his work in economic theory, history and education, and has been identified as one of the 20 most influential living economists
Vernon L. Smith – Nobel Laureate in Economic Science (2002); founder of Economic Science Institute and Smith Institute for Political Economy and Philosophy
Joel Stern – chairman and chief executive officer of Stern Value Management, formerly Stern Stewart & Co, and the creator and developer of Economic Value Added "EVA"
Bart Wilson – Donald P. Kennedy Endowed Chair of Economics and Law in the Argyros School of Business & Economics

Alumni
Paul Anderson – member, Nevada State Assembly
Anastasia Baranova – Russian-American actress
Gustavo Arellano ('01) – former publisher and editor of OC Weekly and author of the column ¡Ask a Mexican!
George Argyros ('59) – business executive, former U.S. Ambassador to Spain, former owner of Seattle Mariners of Major League Baseball
Emmett Ashford ('41) – first African American umpire in Major League Baseball
David E. Bonior (MA '72) – U.S. Congressman from Michigan (1977–2003), House Minority Whip (1995–2002), House Majority Whip (1991–95)
Stephen "tWitch" Boss – DJ and dancer
Tiquette Bramlett - first black woman to lead a winery in the United States
Sabrina Bryan - dancer, choreographer, actress and singer. Member of The Cheetah Girls
Amy Sterling Casil - science fiction writer (and later writing instructor at Chapman)
Matt and Ross Duffer ('07) – co-creators of the television series Stranger Things
Hannah Einbinder – stand-up comedian and actor, known for Hacks
Bob Einstein – film and television actor
Tim Flannery ('79) – Major League Baseball player for 11 seasons, coach for San Francisco Giants
Colin Hanks (did not graduate, left in 1997) – film and television actor
Cooper Hefner ('15) – chief creative officer of Playboy Enterprises
Jelena Jensen ('03) – adult film actress, nude model, webcam model, radio personality
Ben York Jones ('06) – screenwriter and actor, co-creator of the television series Everything Sucks!
Leslie Jones (did not graduate, left in 1986) – comedian, former Saturday Night Live cast member
Randy Jones – former professional baseball player, San Diego Padres, New York Mets; 1976 Cy Young Award Winner
Tyler Patrick Jones - actor
Harshvardhan Kapoor – Bollywood actor
Wayne W. Lambert – Brig. Gen. (USAF) (Ret.) (MBA '76), commanded Strategic Air Command forces in Europe (7th Air Division) 1983–1986
Steve Lavin – former head coach of St. John's men's basketball team (2010–2015), former head coach of UCLA men's basketball team (1996–2002)
Chris Lee (MBA '97) – U.S. Congressman (January 6, 2009 – February 9, 2011)
Paul Le Mat ('63) - Movie Actor
Jeff Levering ('03) – Milwaukee Brewers play-by-play announcer
Stephen Nelson ('11) - MLB/NHL Network television personality, co-host of Intentional Talk, and play-by-play announcer for the MLB Network-produced Friday Night Baseball on Apple TV+.
Jeff Lewis ('93) – real estate speculator, interior designer, and television personality on Flipping Out
Kevin Kwan Loucks (EMBA '17) - CEO of Chamber Music America; co-founder of Chamber Music OC; member of classical music ensemble Trio Céleste
Kellan Lutz – fashion model and actor
Joanna Rosholm ('07) – press secretary to First Lady Michelle Obama
Jim Saia – college basketball head coach
Loretta Sanchez ('82) – Congresswoman, California's 46th Congressional District
Utkarsh Sharma – Indian actor
Jim Silva (MA) – member, California State Assembly
Justin Simien ('05) – filmmaker, actor, and author; director of Dear White People
Jodie Sweetin ('05) – actress, star of television series Full House and Fuller House
Jason Thornberry, writer
Carles Torrens (BFA 2008) – film director
Laura Yeager – U.S. Army general, first woman to command an Army infantry division

Notes
Passage 6:
Tom Campbell (California politician)
Thomas John Campbell (born August 14, 1952) is an American academic, educator, and politician. He is a Professor of Law at the Dale E. Fowler School of Law, and a professor of economics at the George Argyros School of Business and Economics, at Chapman University, in Orange, California.
He was Dean of Chapman University School of Law from 2011–16, Director of Finance for the State of California from 2004 to 2005, a former five-term Republican United States Congressman from California's 12th and 15th districts, a former member of the California State Senate, a former professor at Stanford Law School, former dean of the Haas School of Business, and former professor of business administration at the University of California, Berkeley.
In 2000 he retired from his House seat to run for the U.S. Senate but lost decisively to incumbent Dianne Feinstein. On June 8, 2010, he lost his third bid for the United States Senate, campaigning once again for the seat held by Democrat Barbara Boxer but losing the Republican nomination to Carly Fiorina.
Campbell is a member of the ReFormers Caucus of Issue One.

Early life
Born in Chicago, Campbell was the valedictorian of Chicago's St. Ignatius College Prep, Class of 1969. He went on to obtain his B.A. and M.A. degrees from the University of Chicago (1973), a J.D. from Harvard Law School (1976) and then a subsequent Ph.D. in economics from the University of Chicago (1980). He served as a clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Byron White from 1977 to 1978 and, the year before that, for U.S. Court of Appeals Judge George E. MacKinnon. His mentor was Milton Friedman. Tom Campbell's father was the late Hon. William Joseph Campbell, a former  Chief Judge of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. While Tom Campbell was raised in a Democratic family, he joined the Republican Party in 1980.Campbell was admitted to the Illinois bar in 1976 and went into private practice in Chicago. He was a White House Fellow in the offices of the Chief of Staff and Counsel (1980–1981). He then served in the Reagan Administration as Director of the Bureau of Competition in the Federal Trade Commission from 1981-1983, the youngest person ever to serve in that position.

Law professor
Campbell became a law professor at Stanford Law School in 1983, receiving tenure as a full professor in 1987.

Congressional and State Senate career
Campbell ran for the Republican nomination in California's 12th Congressional District, which included his home in Campbell and the campus of Stanford University.  The 12th had traditionally been a moderate Republican bastion, but had grown increasingly friendly to Democrats over the years. Campbell soundly defeated first-term incumbent Ernie Konnyu in the Republican primary and narrowly defeated his Democratic opponent, San Mateo County Supervisor Anna Eshoo. He served two terms before making an unsuccessful bid for the Republican nomination for the Senate seat being vacated by Alan Cranston. He lost the Republican primary to a considerably more conservative Republican, Bruce Herschensohn, who in turn was defeated by Democratic Congresswoman Barbara Boxer. His political career might have been in jeopardy in any case; his district had been renumbered as the 14th District and had been made considerably more Democratic than its predecessor. Eshoo won the seat and still holds it today; no Republican running in this district (now numbered as the 18th District) has won more than 39 percent of the vote since Campbell left office.
In 1993, California State Senator Becky Morgan stepped down mid-term, and Campbell won a special election to succeed her; the state Senate district overlapped significantly with his old congressional district. In the California state Senate, Campbell was Chairman of the Housing Committee, Vice Chairman of the Education Committee, and served on the Budget Committee. California Journal rated him the Best Problem Solver in the State Senate, the Most Ethical State Senator, and the overall Best State Senator.
In 1995, 15th District Democratic Congressman Norman Mineta, later the Secretary of Commerce under President Bill Clinton and Secretary of Transportation under George W. Bush, unexpectedly resigned. Campbell's home had been re-drawn into this San Jose-based district, and he ran in the special election. Mineta had held the seat since 1975, and it was widely considered a safe Democratic district.  Despite the considerable disadvantage in voter registration and Democratic attempts to tie him to Speaker Newt Gingrich, Campbell won the December special election easily. He won a full term almost as easily in 1996 and was handily re-elected in 1998.
During both of his stints in Congress, Campbell was regarded as one of the most moderate House Republicans. Though conservative on fiscal matters, he is socially liberal, being pro-choice on abortion and in favor of gay rights. This was not surprising, as Bay Area Republicans tend to be more moderate on social and environmental matters than their counterparts in the rest of California. He has a decided libertarian streak, and remains popular with libertarian-leaning Republicans. As a fiscal conservative, he was the only Republican in the House to vote against the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997.Campbell led a group of 17 bipartisan members of Congress who filed a lawsuit against President Clinton in 1999 over his conduct of the war in Kosovo. In the filing, they accused Clinton of not reporting to Congress within 48 hours on the status of the action as required by the 1973 War Powers Resolution and not first obtaining a declaration of war from Congress as required in the Constitution. Congress had voted 427 to 2 against a declaration of war with Yugoslavia and had voted to deny support for the air campaign. A federal judge dismissed the lawsuit, ruling that since Congress had voted for funding after the U.S. was actively engaged in the war with Kosovo, legislators had sent a confusing message about whether they approved of the war. Campbell said afterwards that this was a sidestepping of the law, and lawmakers who disagree with a war should not be forced to cut off funding for troops who are in the midst of it in order to get a judge to order an end to it.In 2000, Campbell won the Republican nomination to take on Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein. Although he touted his service as a moderate Republican representing a strongly Democratic district, he was considered a decided underdog. Campbell was badly defeated, losing by over 19 points. He even lost his own district by almost 15 points. Democratic State Assemblyman Mike Honda, a Mineta protege, won Campbell's House seat by 12 points over Republican State Assemblyman Jim Cunneen, a former aide to Campbell. As of 2020, Campbell is the last elected Republican to have represented a significant portion of San Jose above the county level.In 2008, Campbell wrote in Reason that he would be voting no on Proposition 8, the proposed ballot measure banning same-sex marriage in the state, per his Republican beliefs that "government should be limited. Government has no business making distinctions between people based on their personal lives." Proposition 8 eventually passed by a margin of 52-48%.Campbell is a supporter of the National Popular Vote Interstate Compact.

Return to legal scholarship
In 2000, Campbell returned to Stanford.  He remained there until his appointment at the Haas School of Business at UC Berkeley in 2002. In the intervening years, he began to assemble the material, out of his professional political experiences, for his book The Separation of Powers in Practice  with Stanford University Press.As Dean of the Haas School, Campbell stressed the study of corporate social responsibility and business ethics amid an era of corporate scandals. A full-fledged Center for Responsible Business was established. In September 2004, Campbell was named by California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger to his newly formed Council of Economic Advisors.  From 2004 to 2005, Campbell took a leave of absence from his Berkeley post to serve as director of the California Department of Finance in the Schwarzenegger administration.
On August 27, 2007, Campbell announced that he would step down from his position at Haas in the summer of 2008.
In mid-2008, Campbell joined the Palo Alto office of Los Angeles-based Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP. Campbell joined the Chapman School of Law for a 2-year visiting appointment which began January 2009, serving as the Fletcher Jones Distinguished Visiting Professor at Chapman University School of Law.  In February 2011, Chapman announced that Campbell would be its new Dean.  Campbell replaced interim Dean Scott Howe, who replaced Dean John C. Eastman, who stepped down to seek the 2010 Republican nomination for Attorney General of California (Campbell had filed paperwork to seek the 2010 Republican nomination for Governor of California the day after stepping down as Dean of Haas before going on to seek the 2010 Republican nomination for U.S. Senator from California; neither Eastman and Campbell won the Republican nomination in their respective races).

Return to politics
In July 2008, Tom Campbell filed the necessary paperwork in order to establish a committee with the intent to raise funds for a prospective race for the Republican nomination to be Governor of California in 2010.On January 13, 2010, the Wall Street Journal reported that Campbell would run for the United States Senate, instead of for Governor of California.
Campbell's Web Site confirmed it. In the primary on June 8, Campbell finished a distant second to former Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina, in a race that also included State Assemblyman Chuck DeVore.  The primary election received national attention, in part due to a campaign ad released by Carly Fiorina, depicting Campbell as a "Demon Sheep."

2016 U.S. presidential election
In August 2016, Campbell published an op-ed in The Mercury News calling on the Republican National Committee to replace Donald Trump as the nominee for President, and saying Campbell would withdraw from the Republican Party if that did not happen. Campbell wrote:

On Aug. 9, Trump said, "If she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. ... Although the Second Amendment people -- maybe there is, I don't know." Trump's campaign explained this meant Second Amendment supporters would defeat Clinton at the ballot box. That, however, is not a logical interpretation of the remark. The context was what can be done if Clinton becomes president; not what can be done to stop her from becoming president. As such, this is a statement of great recklessness, made all the more so by our present environment of violence used to advance extremism.
Trump's words were similar to other calls he has made to ignore the rule of law. He has proposed ordering members of the U.S. military to violate American law regarding torture, assuring us that his orders, rather than the law, would be obeyed. He has encouraged physical violence by individuals against protesters at his rallies, assuring anyone doing so that he would cover their legal costs. He has threatened to use the antitrust laws against a company and an individual because the newspaper that individual owns has criticized him.
Campbell also said he could not support the Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton, either, due to her involvement in the email controversy. Campbell officially changed his registration to independent shortly thereafter.In 2016, Campbell wrote a column for the Orange County Register, which, while not endorsing Gary Johnson for president, suggested libertarian-leaning Republicans should consider him. Campbell was later one of 30 former Republican members of Congress who wrote an open letter denouncing Trump's candidacy. Campbell was also included on a list of potential Supreme Court nominees issued by Libertarian Party nominee Gary Johnson. Campbell was speculated to be a possible candidate for the Libertarian nomination in 2020, but instead he endorsed former Judge Jim Gray for the nomination. Campbell proceeded to co-found the centrist Common Sense Party due to what he perceived as a want for such a party among California residents.

Personal life
Campbell married Susanne Martin in 1978.

Awards
2016 Anti-Defamation League Orange County/Long Beach Marcus Kaufman Jurisprudence Award
1998 University of Chicago Alumni Professional Achievement Award

Books
Separation of Powers in Practice (2004) ISBN 0-8047-5027-0

See also
List of law clerks of the Supreme Court of the United States (Seat 6)
Passage 7:
Journal of Behavioral Finance
The Journal of Behavioral Finance is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal that covers research related to the field of behavioral finance. It was established in 2000 as The Journal of Psychology and Financial Markets. The founding Board of Editors were Brian Bruce, David Dreman, Paul Slovic, Nobel Laureate Vernon Smith and Arnold Wood. The editor-in-chief was Gunduz Caginalp (2000-2005), Brian Bruce (Hillcrest Asset Management) is the current editor. Taylor and Francis is the journal's publisher (2023).

Abstracting and indexing
The journal is abstracted and indexed in:

According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal  has a 2022 impact factor of 1.8. In a 2010 ranking it was 71st out of 76 journals in the category "Business, Finance", and 256th out of 305 journals in the category "Economics". The Journal is ranked number 30 out of 80 established finance program journals, as per the Author Affiliation Index methodology, which is an affiliation based network approach to journal rankings. The rankings are published in the Journal of Corporate Finance.  It has a 7% acceptance rate. The Australian Business School Deans list it as a selective A ranked journal.

See also
Prospect theory
Technical analysis
Passage 8:
Chapman University School of Law
Chapman University's Dale E. Fowler School of Law, commonly referred to as Chapman University School of Law or Fowler School of Law, is a private, non-profit law school located in Orange, California. The school offers the Juris Doctor degree (JD), combined programs offering a JD/MBA and JD/MFA in Film & Television Producing. The school also offers emphasis options in Business Law, Criminal Law, Entertainment Law, Environmental Law, Entrepreneurial Law, International Law, Trial Advocacy, and Taxation. Currently, the school has 74 full- and part-time faculty members and a law library with holdings in excess of 290,000 volumes and volume equivalents.

Accreditation history
Established in 1995 as part of Chapman University, Chapman Law gained provisional accreditation from the American Bar Association (ABA) in 1998 and received full ABA accreditation in 2002. In addition to its ABA membership, the Association of American Law Schools admitted Chapman Law as one of its members in 2006. In 2019, the ABA again fully accredited the school until 2027, the standard seven-year accreditation term.

Rankings
Chapman University School of Law is currently ranked 118th by the U.S. News & World Report's annual law school rankings, and 43rd in part-time law schools.

Bar passage rate
For July, 2021, the first-time bar passage rate for Chapman School of Law was 79%. The overall first-time pass rate for ABA-accredited California law schools was 81%.

Costs and average student indebtedness
The cost of tuition for full-time JD students at Chapman for the 2021–2022 academic year was $57,873, which does not include living expenses and fees; and for part-time students was: $46,183 . Accordingly, of 2022 graduates, 74% incurred debt to attend Chapman, with an average indebtedness of $150,534.

Post-graduation employment
According to Chapman's official 2021 ABA-required disclosures, 89% of the Class of 2021 obtained bar passage required employment 10 months or less after graduation, 11% were employed in JD advantage jobs where bar passage was a desired qualification, but not required, and 12% reported they were unemployed.

Scholarships
Chapman, like some other law schools, uses merit based scholarships in order to entice competitive students who might otherwise pass over the school for higher ranked competitors and to enhance its own ranking.

Dean
Paul D. Paton was named dean of Chapman University's Dale E. Fowler School of Law and the Donald P. Kennedy Chair in Law in March, 2023. He assumes the role from interim Dean Marisa Cianciarulo who served as interim-dean from December 1, 2021 through June 30, 2023. Prior deans include Matthew J. Parlow who served as dean from July 1, 2016 to December 1, 2021 who, in turn, succeeded Tom Campbell, dean of Fowler School of Law from 2011-2016.  From 2007-2010, John Eastman was the dean.

Notable faculty
Tom Campbell, Member of the United States Congress, 1989–1993 and 1995–2001, member of the California State Senate 1993–1995, and director of the California Department of Finance from 2004–2005.
John C. Eastman, who represented Donald Trump in disputes over the 2020 US presidential election.  On January 13, 2021, Eastman retired from the Chapman University faculty after he had created controversy by speaking at a Trump rally that preceded the violent storming of the United States Capitol.
Hugh Hewitt, radio host and co-panelist in several of the 2016 presidential debates.
Celestine McConville, Constitutional law and death penalty scholar
Vernon L. Smith, co-winner of the Nobel Prize in economics

Law journals
Chapman's Fowler School of Law publishes the Chapman Law Review, a student-run scholarly journal. In addition to publishing the scholarly journal, the Chapman Law Review hosts a symposium at the start of the spring semester each year.
Passage 9:
Center for American War Letters
The Center for American War Letters is a center established in 2013 after historian Andrew Carroll donated more than 100,000 war letters to Chapman University.

Background
The Center for American War Letters (CAWL) is housed in the Leatherby Libraries building at Chapman University in Orange, California.  Every American conflict is represented in the collections at CAWL, including more than 40 linear feet of correspondence from World War II. Scholars and the public can visit the Center and browse its holdings by visiting the Center during business hours. There are also regular exhibits at CAWL featuring the letters and other war ephemera.

Collection
Notable holdings include a letter by a soldier writing on stationery discovered in Adolf Hitler's office and a Civil War letter from General William T. Sherman. The National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) recently awarded a Foundations-level grant for the digitization of the letters held in this archive, so they may be available to researchers online.  This award was made through the Standing Together Initiative sponsored by the NEH. Some parts of the holdings are already available in the Online Archive of California and in Chapman University's Digital Commons repository.

Published works based on collection
War letters: extraordinary correspondence from American wars. New York: Scribner. 2001. OCLC 46402061.
Behind the lines: powerful and revealing American and foreign war letters--and one man's search to find them. New York: Scribner. 2005. ISBN 0-7432-5616-6. OCLC 58648073.
Operation homecoming: Iraq, Afghanistan, and the Home Front, in the words of U.S. troops and their families. New York: Random House. 2006. OCLC 70114649.
My Fellow Soldiers: General John Pershing and the Americans Who Helped Win the Great War. Penguin Press. 2017. ISBN 978-1594206481.