Passage 1:
Lewiston Maineiacs
The Lewiston Maineiacs were a junior ice hockey team of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League based in Lewiston, Maine, United States. The team played its home games at the Androscoggin Bank Colisée.  They were the second QMJHL team in the United States, and the only one to play a full season. They won the President's Cup in 2007, becoming the only American based franchise to accomplish the feat.
On May 31, 2011, the QMJHL decided to fold the team following eight years of financial losses.

History
Their franchise was granted for the 1969–70 season. They played in Trois-Rivières, Quebec, from 1969 to 1992. They were known as the Ducs from 1969 to 1973, and as the Draveurs from 1973 to 1992. They moved to Sherbrooke, Quebec, in 1992 to become the Faucons (1992–1998) and the Castors (1998–2003). The Castors moved to Lewiston, Maine, in 2003.
The MAINEiacs clinched the Jean Rougeau Trophy for first overall in the regular season for 2006–07. During the same season, Lewiston increased its annual attendance totals to 94,903 tickets sold. In the playoffs that year, Lewiston went 16–1 to cruise to their first President's Cup.

2007 Memorial Cup
After winning the 2007 President's Cup, the MAINEiacs won eligibility to play in the 2007 Memorial Cup in Vancouver, British Columbia. Following an opening win over the Medicine Hat Tigers, the MAINEiacs suffered a huge loss with the injury of their captain, Marc-André Cliche, and never really found their scoring touch. They crashed out of the tournament in fourth place after losing consecutive games to the Vancouver Giants, Plymouth Whalers, and the Whalers again in the tie-breaker, scoring only three goals in three games in the process.

ScoresSaturday, May 19: Lewiston 3, Medicine Hat Tigers 1
Sunday, May 20: Vancouver Giants 2, Lewiston 1
Tuesday, May 22: Plymouth Whalers 2, Lewiston 1 (OT)
Thursday, May 24: Plymouth Whalers 5, Lewiston 1

Sale and aborted relocation
On January 25, 2009, it was announced that the MAINEiacs were negotiating with the city of Boisbriand, Quebec (a suburb of Montreal), in hopes of relocating the franchise for the 2009–10 season. Under the plan, Mark Just would remain majority owner with 51% of the shares, with former NHL defenseman Joel Bouchard owning the rest. On January 31, the team announced that they had filed their intent to relocate, and had submitted papers to do so to the QMJHL.
In a January 31 media release announcing the move of the MAINEiacs franchise, owner Mark Just said that community support for the team was a major consideration. During the six seasons since the team moved from Sherbrooke, Quebec, to Lewiston, the MAINEiacs never managed to break even. However, on February 2, Farrel Miller, owner of the QMJHL's Montreal Junior Hockey Club, issued a statement that his team would fight the MAINEiacs move to Boisbriand on territorial grounds.

The Montreal Junior Hockey Club has communicated to the QMJHL that it will retain, without modification, its exclusive geographic territory that it acquired in connection with its 2008 Franchise Agreement with the QMJHL. On January 21, 2009, the Montreal Junior Hockey Club communicated to the Governors of the QMJHL that (i) it has chosen to retain its exclusive territory without modification and (ii) that it is not seeking any financial compensation in connection with this issue.After several weeks of negotiations with a number of Canadian cities (most notably Fredericton, New Brunswick), MAINEiacs Head Coach Don Macadam announced on March 24, 2009, that the MAINEiacs would be remaining in Lewiston. In June 2010, Lewiston businessman Paul Spellman became minority owner of the team, and in early August 2010, former Moncton Wildcats General Manager Bill Schurman was named as the team's Sports Management Consultant.  However, relocation rumors continued to follow the team, with Summerside, Prince Edward Island (where Schurman, a native of that town, had recently been the municipality's Director of Community Services), and St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador, named as a potential destinations in January 2011.
Schurman's denials of the team looking into a Summerside relocation proved unconvincing, and the rumours had a negative effect on attendance. However, Schurman's dream of moving the MAINEiacs to his home city ultimately failed, as a preliminary exploration to gauge support for a move to Summerside found little traction. The team then began to look at other possibilities, but found that few other relocation options existed.
The Lewiston franchise was disbanded by the QMJHL in the summer of 2011. To replace the defunct MAINEiacs club, the Sherbrooke Phoenix were scheduled to begin play for the 2012–13 season, the 3rd franchise to call Sherbrooke home in 25 years.

Takeover by league and disbanding
On May 31, 2011, the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League held a conference call to prepare an offer to purchase the team from Mark Just for 3.5 million dollars. Under the league's plan, the MAINEiacs would then be disbanded, with players being selected by other clubs in a dispersal draft. Late on May 31, the league issued a press release confirming the sale of the MAINEiacs to the league, and the subsequent disbanding / dispersal draft occurred the following week. Colisee stated they would search for a replacement team from outside of the QMJHL to take the MAINEiacs place.The City of Lewiston and the Androscoggin Bank Colisee would end up getting the American Hockey League's Portland Pirates to move to the Colisee for the 2013-14 season after disputing their lease with the Cumberland County Civic Center in Portland. Starting in 2019, the NAHL Maine Nordiques and their partner organization, the NA3HL Lewiston-Auburn Nordiques, began play at the Colisee.

Coaches
Mario Durocher: 2003–04
Clément Jodoin: 2004–2007
Ed Harding: 2007 – January 12, 2009
Don MacAdam: January 13, 2009 – December 10, 2009 [1]
Jeff Guay: interim: December 10, 2009 – December 27, 2009 (then moved to assistant coach).
Jean-François Houle: December 27, 2009 – May 31, 2011

Players
QMJHL award winners
Mike Bossy Trophy — best pro prospect: Alexandre Picard, 2004
Paul Dumont Trophy — personality of the year: Clement Jodoin, 2006
Ron Lapointe Trophy — Coach of the Year: Clement Jodoin, 2007
Guy Carbonneau Trophy — Best Defensive forward: Marc-André Cliche, 2007.
Guy Lafleur Trophy — QMJHL playoff's Most Valuable Player: Jonathan Bernier, 2007

All-stars
Jonathan Paiement: 1st team (defense) 2003–04
Alexandre Picard: 1st team (right wing) 2003–04,
Alex Bourret: 2nd team (right wing) 2004–05
Jonathan Bernier: 2nd team (goaltender) 2006–07
Peter Delmas: all-rookie team (goaltender) 2006–07
Stefano Giliati: 2nd team (left wing) 2007–08
Kevin Marshall: 2nd team (defense) 2007–08

Captains
2003–04: Francis Trudel
2004–05: No captain
2005 – January 2006: Brandon Roach
January 2006 – May 2007: Marc-André Cliche
September 2007 – March 2008: Marc-André Daneau
September 2008 – June 2009: Danick Paquette
September 2009 – May 2010: Billy Lacasse
September 2010 – 2011: Cameron Critchlow

NHL alumni
Nine MAINEiacs to date have played in the NHL:

Jonathan Bernier
Antoine Bibeau
Michael Chaput
Marc-André Cliche
Éric Gélinas
Jaroslav Halák
Kevin Marshall
David Perron
Alexandre Picard

NHL draftees
In addition, the MAINEiacs have had several players drafted by National Hockey League teams. They are:

2004 NHL Draft
Alexandre Picard (2004 1st round, #8 overall by Columbus Blue Jackets)
Jonathan Paiement (2004 8th round, #247 overall by New York Rangers)2005 NHL Draft
Alex Bourret (2005 1st round, #16 overall by Atlanta Thrashers)
Chad Denny (2005 2nd round, #49 overall by Atlanta Thrashers)
Marc-André Cliche (2005 2nd round, #56 overall by New York Rangers)
Olivier Legault (2005 4th round, #93 overall by Florida Panthers)
Mathieu Aubin (2005 5th round, #130 overall by Montreal Canadiens)2006 NHL Draft
Jonathan Bernier (2006 1st round, #11 overall by Los Angeles Kings)
Stefan Chaput (2006 5th round, #153 overall, by Carolina Hurricanes)2007 NHL Draft
David Perron (2007 1st round, #26 overall by St. Louis Blues)
Kevin Marshall (2007 2nd round #41 overall by Philadelphia Flyers)
Michael Ward (2007 7th round #197 overall by Tampa Bay Lightning)2008 NHL Draft
Peter Delmas (2008 2nd round, #61 overall by Colorado Avalanche)
Danick Paquette (2008 3rd round #64 overall by Atlanta Thrashers)2009 NHL Draft
Éric Gélinas (2009 2nd round, #54 overall by New Jersey Devils)2010 NHL Draft
Michael Chaput (2010 3rd round, #89 overall by Philadelphia Flyers)
Samuel Carrier (2010 6th round, #176 overall by Washington Capitals)

Yearly results
Regular season
Legend: OTL = Overtime loss, SL = Shootout loss

Playoffs
2003–04 – Lost to Rouyn-Noranda Huskies 4–3 in first round.
2004–05 – Defeated Shawinigan Cataractes 4–0 in first round. – Lost to Rimouski Océanic 4–0 in quarterfinals.
2005–06 – Lost to Halifax Mooseheads 4–2 in conference quarterfinals.
2006–07 – Defeated Shawinigan Cataractes 4–0 in conference first roundfinals.  – Defeated Halifax Mooseheads 4–1 in conference quarterfinals. – Defeated Rouyn-Noranda Huskies 4–0 in league semifinals. – Defeated Val-d'Or Foreurs 4–0 in QMJHL finals. QMJHL CHAMPIONS – Finished Memorial Cup round-robin tied for third.  – Lost to Plymouth Whalers 5–1 in the tiebreaker game.
2007–08 – Lost to Cape Breton Screaming Eagles 4–2 in conference quarterfinals.
2008–09 – Lost to Drummondville Voltigeurs 4–0 in conference quarterfinals.
2009–10 – Lost to Drummondville Voltigeurs 4–0 in conference quarterfinals.
2010–11 – Defeated Moncton Wildcats 4–1 in the round of 16.  – Defeated Montreal Junior 4–2 in league quarterfinals.  – Lost to Saint John Sea Dogs 4–0 in league semifinals.
Passage 2:
Billings Bulls
The Billings Bulls were a junior ice hockey organization based in Billings, Montana. They most recently played home games at the 550-seat Centennial Ice Arena and due to the arena's small size, the Bulls frequently sold out games. They previously played their home games in the Metrapark which had a max capacity of 9,000 for hockey games. However, a negotiating dispute with arena officials and local county commissioners resulted in the team losing its lease.

History
The Bulls joined the American Frontier Hockey League in 1993 which became the America West Hockey League (AWHL) in 1998. The Bulls joined the Tier II Jr. A North American Hockey League in 2003 when the AWHL merged with the NAHL (keeping the NAHL name). The team played in the NAHL from 2003 to 2006 until the team and their rivals, the Bozeman Icedogs and Helena Bighorns, left to join the Northern Pacific Hockey League (NorPac), a regional league in the Pacific Northwest of the United States. When they joined the NorPac, the league was Tier III Junior B but promoted to Tier III Junior A by USA Hockey in 2007. In 2011, the Montana teams in the NorPac left the league to form the new regional American West Hockey League, made up of teams in Montana and Wyoming, including the Bulls. In March 2014, the new AWHL joined the North American 3 Hockey League (NA3HL) as the Frontier Division.On the opening weekend of the 2017–18 NA3HL season, the Bulls announced they would be going dormant due to lack of players. At the time, the Bulls were the second-oldest organization in the NA3HL, behind only the St. Louis Jr. Blues.

Previous leagues
1993–1998 American Frontier Hockey League
1998–2003 America West Hockey League
2003–2006 North American Hockey League
2006–2011 Northern Pacific Hockey League
2011–2014 American West Hockey League
2014–2017 North American 3 Hockey League

Season-by-season records
NHL alumni
The franchise developed a number of collegiate and professional players, but only two have played in the NHL
Chris Holt, G (University of Nebraska-Omaha, last with Braehead Clan of the EIHL), formerly of the New York Rangers and St. Louis Blues.
Brian Lee, D retired, formerly of the Tampa Bay Lightning and Ottawa Senators.

Other notable alumni with professional or major college/junior experience
Jon Booras, F (Lake Superior State University, last with MAC Budapest of the MOL Liga)
Jacob Doty, F (currently with Braehead Clan of the EIHL)
Brad Gorham, D (University of Alaska Anchorage, last with the Alaska Aces of the ECHL)
Trevor Hammer, D (University of North Dakota, last played for Florida Seals)
Jeff Hazelwood, F (last played for Las Vegas Wranglers)
Jordan Hines, F (University of Findlay, last played for Fort Worth Fire)
Dan Knapp, D (University of Nebraska-Omaha, last played for Ontario Reign)
Mathias Lange, G (last played for the Iserlohn Roosters of the Deutsche Eishockey Liga)
Tom Reimann, D (University of Maine, last played for Colorado Eagles)
Cam Strong, F (currently with Dartmouth, NCAA Division 1)
Zach Tarkir, D (Northern Michigan University, last played for IF Troja/Ljungby of the HockeyAllsvenskan)
Kevin Ulanski, C (University of Denver, last played for the Bentley Generals)Stormy Knight, LW last played for Seattle Totems of the NPHL (current commisioner of The Mad House fantasy football league)
Passage 3:
Case Gym
Case Gym is a 1,800-seat multi-purpose arena at Boston University in Boston, Massachusetts. It opened in 1972 as part of the Harold Case Physical Education Center, which is named after the university's fifth president, Harold C. Case.
The gym is referred to as "The Roof" because it is located on the top level of the building, above Walter Brown Arena. It is home to the Boston University Terriers men's and women's basketball teams, as well as the men's wrestling team.   Basketball games are also played in Agganis Arena, and on occasion Walter Brown Arena. When Boston University left the America East Conference for the Patriot League in July 2013, they announced that all home men's basketball conference games would be played at Agganis Arena, with the non-conference games to be played at Case.Case Gym hosted the championship games of the 1997 and 2002 America East Conference men's basketball tournament as well as the championship game of the 2011 America East Conference women's basketball tournament. It has also hosted Ring Of Honor Wrestling Shows through wrestling promoter and Boston University alumnus Mike "Mongoose" Coughlin.The center, whose recreational use has declined since the opening of the Fitness and Recreation Center adjacent to Agganis Arena, is approximately located where the left field "pavilion" seats at Braves Field were before the Boston Braves, a Major League Baseball club, were relocated to Milwaukee in 1953.

See also
List of NCAA Division I basketball arenas
Passage 4:
Robins Center
The Robins Center is a 7,201-seat multi-purpose arena in Richmond, Virginia. Opened in 1972, the arena is home to the University of Richmond Spiders basketball. It hosted the ECAC South (now known as the Colonial Athletic Association) men's basketball tournament in 1983.  It is named for E. Claiborne Robins Sr, class of 1931, who, along with his family, have been leading benefactors for the school.  The opening of the Robins Center returning Spider basketball to an on-campus facility for the first time since the mid-1940s when it outgrew Millhiser Gymnasium.  In the intervening decades, the Spiders played home games in numerous locations around the Richmond area, including the Richmond Coliseum (1971–1972), the Richmond Arena (1954–1971), the Benedictine High School gymnasium (1951–1954), Grays' Armory (1950–1951) and Blues' Armory (1947–1950). The Robins Center arena serves as the location of the University of Richmond's commencement exercises and hosted a 1992 Presidential debate involving Bill Clinton, George H. W. Bush, and Ross Perot.
The Robins Center saw a number of upgrades in the 2000s, including a new maple floor in 2003 and renovated locker rooms and offices in 2004. A new scoreboard and sound system was installed for the 2006–2007 season.  A $17 million renovation started in March 2013, which added four corner video boards, a repainted ceiling and new floor, and the seat capacity decreased from 9,071 to around 7,201 once renovations were completed in January 2014. 
In 2015, the playing surface was renamed "Dick Tarrant Court" in honor of Dick Tarrant, the school's all-time winningest coach.In addition to the basketball arena, the Robins Center also serves as the home of many of the other athletic programs at the University of Richmond. The Robins Center Natatorium serves as the home of the women's swimming and diving team, while most of the other programs have their coaches' offices in the building. An addition to the Robins Center, known as the Weinstein Center for Fitness and Recreation, opened in January 2007 and provides expanded facilities for recreational use.

See also
List of NCAA Division I basketball arenas
Passage 5:
2007 Memorial Cup
The 2007 MasterCard Memorial Cup was played in May 2007 in Vancouver, British Columbia, at the Pacific Coliseum. It was the 89th annual Memorial Cup competition and determined the major junior ice hockey champion of the Canadian Hockey League (CHL).  The tournament was competed between the WHL champion, the Medicine Hat Tigers; the OHL champion, the Plymouth Whalers; the QMJHL champion, the Lewiston Maineiacs; and the host team and tournament champion, Vancouver Giants, who were competing in their second consecutive national junior championship. The Memorial Cup tournament was a four team tournament with a round-robin format. The Giants won their first Memorial Cup, defeating Medicine Hat 3–1 in the second all-WHL final in tournament history (the first was in 1989).  The tournament set a new Memorial Cup attendance record with 121,561 fans attending the nine games.  The previous record of 84,686 was set at the 2003 tournament in Quebec City.
The tournament was the first to feature two league champions based in the United States, from Lewiston, Maine and Plymouth, Michigan, respectively. The only previous Memorial Cup to feature two American teams was the 1998 Memorial Cup, featuring the WHL champion, the Portland Winter Hawks and the host, the Spokane Chiefs. The 2007 MasterCard Memorial Cup was also the first to feature the two-referee system.
The Memorial Cup trophy's ties to Canadian military were evident when Canadian Forces units delivered it to the championship by sea, aboard HMCS Vancouver; by air, hoisted aboard a CH-149 Cormorant helicopter; and by land, via the armoured 39th Canadian Brigade Group Convoy.

Round-robin standings
Rosters
Schedule
Round robin
Playoff round
Tie breaker
Semi-final
Championship game
Leading scorers
Leading goaltenders
Goalies Have To Play A Minimum Of 60 Minutes To Be Listed.

Award winners
Stafford Smythe Memorial Trophy (MVP): Milan Lucic, Vancouver
George Parsons Trophy (Sportsmanship): Brennan Bosch, Medicine Hat
Hap Emms Memorial Trophy (Goaltender): Matt Keetley, Medicine Hat
Ed Chynoweth Trophy (Leading Scorer): Michal Repik, VancouverAll-star team

Goal: Matt Keetley, Medicine Hat
Defence: Brendan Mikkelson, Vancouver; Cody Franson, Vancouver
Forwards: Darren Helm, Medicine Hat; Michal Repik, Vancouver; Milan Lucic, Vancouver

Road to the cup
OHL playoffs
QMJHL playoffs
†Shawinigan seeded 8th in Eastern division.

WHL playoffs
Passage 6:
Dwyer Arena
The Robert and Concetta Dwyer Arena houses two ice surfaces, both 200 x 85 ft., and pro shop on Niagara University's campus in Lewiston, New York, United States. The main rink can seat up to 1,400 people and is the home to the Niagara Purple Eagles men's ice hockey team, which plays in Atlantic Hockey. The arena was formerly home to the women's ice hockey team, which played in College Hockey America. 
The building was built in 1996. Prior to the 1999–2000 season, major renovation took place as a result of a gift by Bob and Connie Dwyer, both 1965 graduates, who contributed $3 million for facilities upgrades. Locker and training rooms, players' lounge, and lobby were upgraded, while separate entrances for the main and auxiliary rinks, new pro shop, and new ticket office were arranged. In the summer of 2007 a premium seating section was added in the area formerly occupied by the Party Deck, and as a result, capacity was increased from 1,600 to 2,100. The current seating capacity is 1,400.
It hosted the College Hockey America 2002, 2008, and 2010 men's conference tournaments and the 2004 and 2008 women's conference tournaments.  Dwyer was home of the Buffalo Sabres Summer Development Camp in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 which featured young prospects and draft picks in the Sabres organization.  The arena co-hosted the 2011 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships.

External links
Official website
Passage 7:
2006–07 QMJHL season
The 2006–07 QMJHL season was the 38th season in the history of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League. The regular season ran from September 14, 2006 to March 18, 2007. Eighteen teams played 70 games each in the schedule. The Lewiston Maineiacs finished first overall in the regular season winning their first Jean Rougeau Trophy. Lewiston won 16 playoff games, losing only one, en route to their first President's Cup, defeating the Val-d'Or Foreurs in the finals.

Final standings
Note: GP = Games played; W = Wins; L = Losses; OTL = Overtime loss; SL = Shootout loss; PTS = Points; GF = Goals for; GA = Goals against

complete list of standings.

Scoring leaders
Note: GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points; PIM = Penalty minutes

complete scoring statistics

Goaltending leaders
Note: GP = Games played; Mins = Minutes Played; W = Wins; L = Losses: OTL = Overtime losses; SL = Shootout losses; GA = Goals allowed; SO = Shutouts; GAA = Goals against average

Canada-Russia Challenge
The 2006 ADT Canada-Russia Challenge was hosted by the Rouyn-Noranda Huskies and the Val-d'Or Foreurs. On November 20, 2006, the QMJHL All-stars defeated the Russian Selects 6–2 at the Aréna Dave Keon. On November 21, 2006, the QMJHL All-stars defeated the Russian Selects 4–3 at the Centre Air Creebec. Since the tournament began in 2003, the QMJHL All-stars have won five games, the Russian Selects have three wins.

Playoffs
The top nine teams from the Telus division, and top seven teams from the Eastern division qualified for the playoffs. The ninth place team in the Telus division qualified in the Eastern division, and ranked by regular season points. All series were best-of-seven. Divisions crossed over in the semifinals.
Brad Marchand was the leading scorer of the playoffs with 40 points (16 goals, 24 assists).

†Shawinigan seeded 8th in Eastern division.

All-star teams
First teamGoaltender - Ondrej Pavelec, Cape Breton Screaming Eagles
Left defence - Andrew MacDonald, Moncton Wildcats
Right defence - Kris Letang, Val-d'Or Foreurs
Left winger - Vyacheslav Trukhno, Gatineau Olympiques
Centreman - Mathieu Perreault, Acadie-Bathurst Titan
Right winger - Thomas Beauregard, Acadie-Bathurst TitanSecond teamGoaltender - Jonathan Bernier, Lewiston Maineiacs
Left defence - Oskars Bartulis, Cape Breton Screaming Eagles
Right defence - Jean-Claude Sawyer, Cape Breton Screaming Eagles
Left winger - Benoît Doucet, Victoriaville Tigres
Centreman - James Sheppard, Cape Breton Screaming Eagles
Right winger - François Bouchard, Baie-Comeau DrakkarRookie teamGoaltender - Peter Delmas, Lewiston Maineiacs
Left defence - Mark Barberio, Cape Breton Screaming Eagles / Moncton Wildcats
Right defence - Simon Lacroix, Shawinigan Cataractes
Left winger - Michael Frolik, Rimouski Océanic
Centreman - Christopher DiDomenico, Saint John Sea Dogs
Right winger - Jakub Voracek, Halifax Mooseheads
List of First/Second/Rookie team all-stars.

Trophies and awards
TeamPresident's Cup - Playoff Champions, Lewiston Maineiacs
Jean Rougeau Trophy - Regular Season Champions, Lewiston Maineiacs
Luc Robitaille Trophy - Team that scored the most goals, Cape Breton Screaming Eagles
Robert Lebel Trophy - Team with best GAA, Lewiston MaineiacsPlayerMichel Brière Memorial Trophy - Most Valuable Player, Mathieu Perreault, Acadie-Bathurst Titan
Jean Béliveau Trophy - Top Scorer, François Bouchard, Baie-Comeau Drakkar
Guy Lafleur Trophy - Playoff MVP, Jonathan Bernier, Lewiston Maineiacs
Telus Cup – Offensive - Offensive Player of the Year
Telus Cup – Defensive - Defensive Player of the Year
Jacques Plante Memorial Trophy - Best GAA, Ondrej Pavelec, Cape Breton Screaming Eagles
Guy Carbonneau Trophy - Best Defensive Forward, Marc-André Cliche - Lewiston Maineiacs
Emile Bouchard Trophy - Defenceman of the Year, Kris Letang, Val-d'Or Foreurs
Kevin Lowe Trophy - Best Defensive Defenceman, Kris Letang, Val-d'Or Foreurs
Mike Bossy Trophy - Best Pro Prospect, Angelo Esposito, Quebec Remparts
RDS Cup - Rookie of the Year, Jakub Voracek, Halifax Mooseheads
Michel Bergeron Trophy - Offensive Rookie of the Year, Jakub Voracek, Halifax Mooseheads
Raymond Lagacé Trophy - Defensive Rookie of the Year, T. J. Brennan, St. John's Fog Devils
Frank J. Selke Memorial Trophy - Most sportsmanlike player, David Desharnais, Chicoutimi Saguenéens
QMJHL Humanitarian of the Year - Humanitarian of the Year, Roger Kennedy, Halifax Mooseheads
Marcel Robert Trophy - Best Scholastic Player, Alexandre Picard-Hooper, Baie-Comeau Drakkar
Paul Dumont Trophy - Personality of the Year, Kris Letang, Val-d'Or ForeursExecutiveRon Lapointe Trophy - Coach of the Year, Clément Jodoin, Lewiston Maineiacs
Maurice Filion Trophy - General Manager of the Year, Pascal Vincent, Cape Breton Screaming Eagles
John Horman Trophy - Executive of the Year, Pierre Dufour, Val D'Or Foreurs
Jean Sawyer Trophy - Marketing Director of the Year, Nadia Lacasse & Mélanie Allard, Rouyn-Noranda Huskies

See also
2007 Memorial Cup
2007 NHL Entry Draft
2006–07 OHL season
2006–07 WHL season
Passage 8:
Androscoggin Bank Colisée
The Colisée (formerly Androscoggin Bank Colisée, Central Maine Youth Center, Central Maine Civic Center and Lewiston Colisee) is a 4,000 capacity (3,677 seated) multi-purpose arena, in Lewiston, Maine, that opened in 1958. The Colisée was built to replace St. Dominics Regional High School Arena, and initially constructed and operated by the Catholic parish of SS. Peter and Paul. Currently, it is the home of the Maine Nordiques of the North American Hockey League. The Colisee is also used for concerts, conventions and trade shows. There is 17,000 square feet (1600 m2) of exhibit space. For conventions, the Colisee can accommodate up to 4,800 patrons.

History
The Maine Nordiques of the former professional North American Hockey League were the primary tenant at the Civic Center from 1973 to 1977. The Boston Celtics of the National Basketball Association played exhibition games at the Civic Center.
In 2003, the Lewiston Maineiacs came to the Central Maine Civic Center. The Central Maine Civic Center was renamed to the Lewiston Colisée (from the French word for colosseum, similar to the Colisée de Québec) to distinguish it from the Cumberland County Civic Center, the Augusta Civic Center, and the Bangor Civic Center. In 2007, the Maineiacs won the Presidents Cup, the QMJHL league championship. They remain the only U.S.-based QMJHL team to win the Presidents Cup. The Maineiacs folded at the end of the 2010–11 QMJHL season and the Sherbrooke Phoenix was created in its place.The Federal Hockey League held five home games at the arena in 2011 and 2012. Due to renovations to the Cumberland County Civic Center, the Portland Pirates played at the Colisee during the 2012–13 AHL season for all but one of their home games.On December 16, 2014, it was announced the New Hampshire Fighting Spirit from the North American 3 Eastern Hockey League, a Tier III junior league, would relocate to Lewiston and play home games at the Colisee as the L/A Fighting Spirit (with the L/A standing for Lewiston-Auburn) beginning with the 2015–16 season. In 2016, the Fighting Spirit joined the North American 3 Hockey League.
Firland Management, which had acquired the Colisee from the City of Lewiston in 2008, bought the Fighting Spirit in 2017 and rebranded the team as the Lewiston/Auburn Nordiques after the former professional team. In 2019, Cain, Darryl Antonacci, and Nolan Howe were granted an expansion team in the Tier II junior North American Hockey League and named the team the Maine Nordiques. In March 2020, Antonacci agreed to purchase the Colisée and the Tier III Nordiques from Cain. Antonacci folded the Tier III junior team and replaced it with Tier I youth teams.The naming rights to the venue were sold to Androscoggin Bank in 2006. In 2020, the rights expired, and the bank's name was removed from the venue the following year.

Other uses
Ali vs. Liston fight
On May 25, 1965, the Youth Center was the venue for the WBC heavyweight boxing championship rematch between 34-year old former champ Sonny Liston and 23-year-old reigning champion Muhammad Ali. It was at this fight that Sports Illustrated photographer Neil Leifer took what Time magazine has called the "perhaps the greatest sports photo of the century."

Concerts
On March 19, 1977, Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band played at the venue. Bob Dylan performed at the venue on November 13, 2000, May 17, 2008 and on April 10, 2013.

Mixed martial arts
Bellator MMA held their first event in Maine on March 21, 2013, Bellator 93.

Ring of Honor/New Japan Pro-Wrestling
On November 7, 2018, Ring of Honor made its Maine debut at the Coliseé. As a co-promoted Global Wars show with New Japan Pro-Wrestling, it also marked the Japanese promotion's first event in New England.
Passage 9:
2011–12 QMJHL season
The 2011–12 QMJHL season was the 43rd season of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League (QMJHL). The regular season, which consisted of 17 teams playing 68 games each, began in September 2011 and ended in March 2012. This season was Blainville-Boisbriand Armada's first season in the league, as the team relocated to Boisbriand from Verdun where they played as the Montreal Junior Hockey Club from 2008 to 2011. The league lost one of his charter teams when the Lewiston Maineiacs folded during after the previous season, the QMJHL later announce an expansion team to  Sherbrooke for the 2012–13 season. In the playoffs, the Saint John Sea Dogs became the seventh team in league history to capture consecutive President's Cup championships.

Regular season
Division standings
Note: GP = Games played; W = Wins; L = Losses; OTL = Overtime losses ; SL - Shootout losses ; GF = Goals for ; GA = Goals against; Pts = Points

x - team has clinched playoff spot
y - team is division leader
z - team has clinched division
e - team is eliminated from playoff contention

Scoring leaders
Note: GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points; PIM = Penalty minutes

Leading goaltenders
Note: GP = Games played; TOI = Total ice time; W = Wins; L = Losses ; GA = Goals against; SO = Total shutouts; SV% = Save percentage; GAA = Goals against average

2012 President's Cup playoffs
First round
(1) Saint John Sea Dogs vs. (16) Cape Breton Screaming Eagles
(2) Shawinigan Cataractes vs. (15) Rouyn-Noranda Huskies
(3) Blainville-Boisbriand Armada vs. (14) Gatineau Olympiques
(4) Victoriaville Tigres vs. (13) Baie-Comeau Drakkar
(5) Quebec Remparts vs. (12) Drummondville Voltigeurs
(6) Halifax Mooseheads vs. (11) Moncton Wildcats
(7) Rimouski Océanic vs. (10) Val-d'Or Foreurs
(8) Chicoutimi Saguenéens vs. (9) Acadie–Bathurst Titan
Quarter-finals
(1) Saint John Sea Dogs vs. (13) Baie-Comeau Drakkar
(2) Shawinigan Cataractes vs. (8) Chicoutimi Saguenéens
(3) Blainville-Boisbriand Armada vs. (7) Rimouski Océanic
(5) Quebec Remparts vs. (6) Halifax Mooseheads
Semi-finals
(1) Saint John Sea Dogs vs. (8) Chicoutimi Saguenéens
(6) Halifax Mooseheads vs. (7) Rimouski Océanic
QMJHL Championship
(1) Saint John Sea Dogs vs. (7) Rimouski Océanic
Playoff scoring leaders
Note: GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points; PIM = Penalty minutes

Playoff leading goaltenders
Note: GP = Games played; Mins = Minutes played; W = Wins; L = Losses; GA = Goals Allowed; SO = Shutouts; SV& = Save percentage; GAA = Goals against average

Memorial Cup
Trophies and awards
TeamPresident's Cup: Saint John Sea Dogs
Jean Rougeau Trophy - Regular Season Champions: Saint John Sea Dogs
Luc Robitaille Trophy - Team that scored the most goals: Victoriaville Tigres
Robert Lebel Trophy - Team with best GAA: Shawinigan CataractesPlayerMichel Brière Memorial Trophy - Most Valuable Player: Yanni Gourde, Victoriaville Tigres
Jean Béliveau Trophy - Top Scorer: Yanni Gourde, Victoriaville Tigres
Guy Lafleur Trophy - Playoff MVP: Charlie Coyle, Saint John Sea Dogs
Jacques Plante Memorial Trophy - Top Goaltender: Mathieu Corbeil-Thériault, Saint John Sea Dogs
Guy Carbonneau Trophy - Best Defensive Forward: Frederick Roy, Quebec Remparts
Emile Bouchard Trophy - Defenceman of the Year: Jérôme Gauthier-Leduc, Rimouski Océanic
Kevin Lowe Trophy - Best Defensive Defenceman: Morgan Ellis, Shawinigan Cataractes
Mike Bossy Trophy - Top Prospect: Mikhail Grigorenko, Quebec Remparts
RDS Cup - Rookie of the Year: Mikhail Grigorenko, Quebec Remparts
Michel Bergeron Trophy - Offensive Rookie of the Year: Mikhail Grigorenko, Quebec Remparts
Raymond Lagacé Trophy - Defensive Rookie of the Year: Zachary Fucale, Halifax Mooseheads
Frank J. Selke Memorial Trophy - Most sportsmanlike player: Zach O'Brien, Acadie–Bathurst Titan
QMJHL Humanitarian of the Year - Humanitarian of the Year:
Marcel Robert Trophy - Best Scholastic Player: Jonathan Brunelle, Cape Breton Screaming Eagles
Paul Dumont Trophy - Personality of the Year: Jonathan Huberdeau, Saint John Sea DogsExecutiveRon Lapointe Trophy - Coach of the Year: Jean-François Houle, Blainville-Boisbriand Armada
Maurice Filion Trophy - General Manager of the Year: Joël Bouchard, Blainville-Boisbriand Armada
John Horman Trophy - Executive of the Year:
Jean Sawyer Trophy - Marketing Director of the Year:All-Star TeamsFirst All-Star Team:

Roman Will, Goaltender, Moncton Wildcats
Jérôme Gauthier-Leduc, Defenceman, Rimouski Océanic
Xavier Ouellet, Defenceman, Blainville-Boisbriand Armada
Mikhail Grigorenko, Centre, Quebec Remparts
Yanni Gourde, Left Wing, Victoriaville Tigres
Frederick Roy, Right Wing, Quebec RempartsSecond All-Star Team:

Mathieu Corbeil-Thériault, Goaltender, Saint John Sea Dogs
Morgan Ellis, Defenceman, Cape Breton Screaming Eagles/Shawinigan Cataractes
Nathan Beaulieu, Defenceman, Saint John Sea Dogs
Zach O'Brien, Centre, Acadie–Bathurst Titan
Jonathan Huberdeau, Left Wing, Saint John Sea Dogs
Sébastien Trudeau, Right Wing, Acadie–Bathurst TitanAll-Rookie Team:

Zachary Fucale, Goaltender, Halifax Mooseheads
Nikolas Brouillard, Defenceman, Drummondville Voltigeurs
Samuel Morin, Defenceman, Rimouski Océanic
Mikhail Grigorenko, Centre, Quebec Remparts
Anthony Duclair, Left Wing, Quebec Remparts
Sven Andrighetto, Right Wing, Rouyn-Noranda Huskies

See also
2012 Memorial Cup
List of QMJHL seasons
2011–12 OHL season
2011–12 WHL season
2011 in ice hockey
2012 in ice hockey
Passage 10:
Loan modification in the United States
Loan modification is the systematic alteration of mortgage loan agreements that help those having problems making the payments by reducing interest rates, monthly payments or principal balances. Lending institutions could make one or more of these changes to relieve financial pressure on borrowers to prevent the condition of foreclosure. Loan modifications have been practiced in the United States since the 1930s. During the Great Depression, loan modification programs took place at the state level in an effort to reduce levels of loan foreclosures.
During the Subprime mortgage crisis, loan modification became a matter of national policy, with various actions taken to alter mortgage loan terms to prevent further economic destabilization.

United States 1930s
During the Great Depression in the United States a number of mortgage modification programs were enacted by the states to limit foreclosure sales and subsequent homelessness and its economic impact.  Because of the shrinkage of the economy, many borrowers lost their jobs and income and were unable to maintain their mortgage payments. In 1933, the Minnesota Mortgage Moratorium Act was challenged by a bank which argued before the United States Supreme Court that it was a violation of the contract clause of the Constitution. In Home Building & Loan Association v. Blaisdell, the court upheld the law imposing a mandatory mortgage modification.

United States 2000s
According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) chairman, Sheila C. Bair, looking back as far as the 1980s, "the FDIC applied workout procedures for troubled loans out of bank failures, modifying loans to make them affordable and to turn nonperforming into performing loans by offering refinances, loan assumptions, and family loan transfers."The U.S. housing boom of the first few years of the 21st century ended abruptly in 2006. Housing starts, which peaked at more than 2 million units in 2005, plummeted to just over half that level. Home prices, which were increasing at double-digit rates nationally in 2004 and 2005, have fallen dramatically since (see Chart 1). As home prices decline, the number of problem mortgages, particularly in sub-prime and Alt-A portfolios, is rising. As of third quarter 2007, the percentage of sub-prime adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs) that were seriously delinquent or in foreclosure reached 15.6 percent, more than double the level of a year ago (see Chart 2). The deterioration in credit performance began in the industrial Midwest, where economic conditions have been the weakest, but has now (2006–2007) spread to the former boom markets of Florida, California, and other coastal states.
Chart 1

Chart 2

During 2007, investors and ratings agencies have repeatedly downgraded assumptions about sub-prime credit performance. A Merrill Lynch study published in July estimated that if U.S. home prices fell only 5 percent, subprime credit losses to investors would total just under $150 billion, and Alt-A credit losses would total $25 billion. On the heels of this report came news that the S&P/Case-Shiller Composite Home Price Index for 10 large U.S. cities had fallen in August to a level that was already 5 percent lower than a year ago, with the likelihood of a similar decline over the coming year.
The complexity of many mortgage-backed securitization structures has heightened the overall risk aversion of investors, resulting in what has become a broader illiquidity in global credit markets. These disruptions have led to a precipitous decline in sub-prime lending, a significant reduction in the availability of Alt-A loans, and higher interest rates on jumbo loans (see Chart 3). The tightening in mortgage credit has placed further downward pressure on home sales and home prices, a situation that now could derail the U.S. economic expansion.Chart 3

Residential mortgage credit quality continues to weaken, with both delinquencies and charge-offs on the rise at FDIC-insured institutions.This trend, in tandem with upward pricing of hybrid adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) loans, falling home prices, and fewer refinancing options, underscores the urgency of finding a workable solution to current problems in the sub-prime mortgage market. Legislators, regulators, bankers, mortgage servicers, and consumer groups have been debating the merits of strategies that may help preserve home ownership, minimize foreclosures, and restore some stability to local housing markets.On December 6, 2007, an industry-led plan was announced to help avert foreclosure for certain sub-prime homeowners who face unaffordable payments when their interest rates reset. This plan provides for a streamlined process to extend the starter rates on sub-prime ARMs for at least five years in cases where borrowers remain current on their loans but cannot refinance or afford the higher payments after reset. An important component of the industry-led plan is detailed reporting of loan modification activity. Working with the United States Treasury Department and other bank regulators, the FDIC will monitor loan modification levels and seek adjustments to the protocols if warranted.

Loss Mitigation Mediation (LMM) Program
Mediation is usually a great way for a plaintiff and defendant to sit down with a neutral arbiter to hash out their differences and come to a resolution that is usually better than continued litigation. Mediation is successful in all types of disputes including personal injury cases, contract disputes and even divorces. However, in these cases, circuit court judges will readily punish a party who fails to attend mediation or who attends but fails to comply with the mediation order.
In 2009, the Florida Supreme Court forced every Florida Circuit Court (the courts in which Foreclosure Lawsuits are heard), to implement a mediation program for homeowners facing Foreclosure. This program was called the “Residential Mortgage Foreclosure Mediation” (RMFM) Program. The idea was for lenders to provide an in-person or telephonic meeting with the Homeowner/Defendant in the presence of an impartial mediator to discuss the Foreclosure Lawsuit and possible alternatives (including Loan Modification, Deed in Lieu of Foreclosure, and Short Sale).The RMFM Program was cancelled in 2011 following widespread criticism of the program. The RMFM failed because it had no teeth, because judges were reluctant to punish the mortgage companies for failing to mediate in good faith, and because borrowers were not receiving the cooperation they needed from the banks. In short, the RMFM was a complete waste of time, not because mediation is a bad idea but because of the limited loss mitigation options and because most state court judges could not or would not enforce the program.In 2012, the Bankruptcy Court in the Middle District of Florida implemented its own version of the failed RMFM, but unlike the state court version, it has seen a much higher success rate. One Orlando bankruptcy attorney reported a 90% success rate, with 18% of his modifications involving principal reduction. Similar programs have also been instituted by Bankruptcy courts in New York and Rhode Island.Following the lead of the Middle District, the Southern District of Florida Bankruptcy Court has initiated its own loss mitigation mediation (“LMM”) program. The LMM Program kicked off on April 1, 2013 and unlike the Middle District, the Southern District's program has more requirements for all parties and includes debtors in all chapters, not just Chapter 13. Chapter 7 debtors may use LMM to request a surrender of the property (a real surrender that provides for a transfer of title). LMM may be used by Chapter 13 debtors to request and apply for modification through mediation or surrender of any property they no longer want to own.
The Southern District's program also includes the utilization of a document processing program called the DMM Portal. Participants in the LMM program will use this secure online portal for the exchange of documents and communication. This program will help ensure that documents sent between the lender and the borrower and not lost or misplaced. Instant uploads and verification of transmissions are a hallmark of the portal.
Election to participate in the LMM program will suspend any pending motions for relief from stay (“MFR”). However, while an LMM is pending, debtors will be required to pay 31% of their gross monthly income through the Chapter 13 plan as an “adequate protection” payment. The fees a debtor will have to pay to participate in the program will typically include an $1,800 fee to their bankruptcy attorney for handling the modification through their Chapter 13 plan and an approximately $300 fee to the mediator.While the bankruptcy mediation program does not guarantee a residential loan modification, it does make it much harder for a mortgage servicer to reject a modification because of the stringent requirement to act in good faith. For instance, if a servicer rejects a HAMP application, it will have to explain why. Often, a rejection is based upon a miscalculation, a misinterpretation, or an oversight. In this program, the debtor's attorney can demand that the servicer's representative explain his calculations. Often, the mistakes are found and corrected, resulting in the modification being accepted.
While mortgage modification and bankruptcy may not be the solution to all distressed mortgage problems, it will certainly provide an additional venue for homeowners in need. Applying for a modification through bankruptcy may provide relief from the dischargeable debts that are keeping the debtor from being able to make the mortgage payments and provide the lenders a guarantee that the borrower is no longer obligated by those burdens.

Streamlined modification process
The adoption of this streamlined modification framework is an additional tool that servicers will now have to help avoid preventable foreclosures. This framework will not only help homeowners who receive a streamlined modification, but will also further address servicer capacity concerns by freeing up resources, helping ensure that borrowers do not fall through the cracks because servicers aren't able to get to them.This is the first time the industry has agreed on an industry standard. The benchmark ratio for calculating the affordable payment is 38 percent of monthly gross household income. Once the affordable payment is determined, there are several steps the servicer can take to create that payment – extending the term, reducing the interest rate, and forbearing interest. In the event that the affordable payment is still beyond the borrower's means, the borrower's situation will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis using a cash flow budget. This program resulted from a unified effort among the Enterprises, Hope Now and its 27 servicer partners, Treasury, the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). In addition, we’ve drawn on the FDIC's experience and assistance from developing the IndyMac streamlined approach and have greatly benefited from the FDIC's input and example. To accommodate the need for more flexibility among a larger number of servicers, the Streamlined Modification Program does differ from the IndyMac model in a few areas. However, it uses the same fundamental tools to achieve the same affordability target.The Streamlined Modification Program (SMP) was developed in collaboration with the FHFA, the Department of Treasury, Freddie Mac, and members of the HOPE NOW Alliance.

SMP eligibility criteria
The SMP eligibility criteria include:

Conforming conventional or jumbo conforming mortgage loans originated on or before January 1, 2008;
At least three payments past due;
The loan is secured by a one-unit property that is the borrower's primary residence;
Current mark-to-market loan to value (LTV) of 90 percent or more; and
Property is not abandoned, vacant, condemned, or in a serious state of disrepair.
SMP is designed to reduce distressed borrowers' monthly mortgage payments to an amount equal to 38 percent of their monthly gross income. To do so, servicers may, in the following order:
Capitalize accrued interest, escrow advances and costs, if allowed by state law;
Extend the term of the mortgage loan by up to 480 months;
Reduce the mortgage loan interest rate in increments of .125% to a fixed rate that is not less than 3% (if this exercise results in a below market rate, it will, after 5 years, step up in annual increments to a market rate);
As a last resort, provide for principal forbearance, which will result in a balloon payment fully due and payable upon borrower's sale of the property or payoff or maturity of the loan.Borrowers meeting the SMP eligibility requirements enter into a trial period in which they must make monthly loan payments equal to the proposed modified payment. Timely payments must be made for three consecutive months before a borrower's loan can be modified under the SMP.The "Streamlined Modification Plan," or SMP, which is an expansion of what many lenders are already doing, was implemented starting December 15, 2008.

IndyMAC plan
With the George W. Bush administration refusing to enact FDIC Chairwoman Sheila Bair's controversial loan modification plan, lawmakers are taking matters into their own hands.
Offer proactive workout solutions designed to address borrowers who have the willingness but limited capacity to pay.Return the loan to a current status.
Capitalize delinquent interest and escrow.
Modify the loan terms based on waterfalls, starting at a front-end 38 percent HTI ratio down to a 31 percent HTI ratio subject to a formal net present value (NPV) floor.
Reduce interest rate to as low as 3 percent.
Extend, if necessary, the amortization and/or term of the loan to 40 years.
Forbear principal if necessary.Provide borrowers the opportunity to stay in their home while making an affordable payment for the life of the loan.Require the borrower to make one payment at the time of the modification.
Cap the interest rate at the Freddie Mac Weekly Survey rate effective as required to meet the target HTI ratio, fixing the adjusted rate and monthly payment amount for 5 years.
Step up the initial interest rate gradually starting in year 6 by increasing it one percentage point each year until reaching the Freddie Mac Weekly Survey rate cap.Use a financial model with supportable assumptions to ensure investor interests are protected.Input borrower specific income information into the NPV Tool, which provides a real-time workout solution.
Perform automated loan level underwriting across large segments of the portfolio to support pre-approved bulk mailings.
Verify income information the borrower provided via check stubs, tax returns, and/or bank statements.
Compare the cost of foreclosure to mitigate losses.
Mandate that the cost of the modification must be less than the estimated foreclosure loss.Borrower eligibilityThe loan is at least 60 days delinquent where the loan is considered one day delinquent on the day following the next payment due date. Many servicing contracts often contain a standard clause allowing the servicer to modify seriously delinquent or defaulted mortgages, or mortgages where default is “reasonably foreseeable”.
Foreclosure sale is not imminent and the borrower is currently not in bankruptcy, or has not been discharged from Chapter 7 bankruptcy since the loan was originated.
The loan was not originated as a second home or an investment property."We (IndyMac Bank) commend FDIC Chairman Sheila Bair for her leadership in developing a systematic loan modification protocol. FHFA, the GSEs and HOPE NOW relied heavily on the IndyMac model in developing this new protocol".  
As history unfolds on the U.S. Housing and Finance crisis that caused the persistent recession, the (IndyMac Bank) bankruptcy and ensuing scandal are important to understand.  A dynamic interplay between social good, capital ownership and the rule of law is ongoing in the U.S. experiment with the democratic process.  Much of the business models of IndyMac and also the government backed FrannieMae and FreddieMac quasi-banks were based on concentrated debt.  This model became very high risk as it was based on the faulty assumption that housing values would increase.  In fact, the prevalence of their mortgages greatly fed the housing bubble with significant crossfunding and possible corruption to the government regulatory function through dramatic campaign funding contributions from these organizations.  In the less regulated business climate of the late 1800s, speculative bubbles were corrected by painful financial panics.  True understanding is yet to be documented for the speculative housing bubble of 2008, but federal government management has seemingly replaced the severity of a financial panic with a persistent yet less severe correction.  This correction is becoming known at the Great Recession.

Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac Plan
In the task at hand to make headway against foreclosures and the depressed housing market. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac entered a new phase on December 9, 2008 for a fast-track program meant to make "hundreds of thousands of mortgages affordable to people who can't currently meet their monthly payments."Through the SMP, servicers may change the terms of a loan to reduce a borrower's first lien monthly mortgage payment, including taxes, insurance and homeowners association payments, to an amount equal to 38 percent of gross monthly income. The changes in terms may include one or more of the following:
Adding the accrued interest, escrow advances and costs to the principal balance of the loan, if allowed by state law;
Extending the length of the mortgage loan as appropriate;
Reducing the mortgage loan interest rate in increments of 0.125 percent to an interest rate that is not less than 3 percent. If the new rate is set below the market interest rate, after five years it  will step up in annual increments to either the original loan interest rate or the market interest rate at the time of the modification, whichever is lower;
Forbearing on a portion of the principal, which will require the borrower to make a balloon payment when the loan matures, is paid off, or is refinanced.

Eligibility requirements
Conforming conventional and jumbo conforming mortgage loans originated on or before January 1, 2009;
Borrowers who are at least three or more payments past due and are not currently in bankruptcy;
Only one-unit, owner-occupied, primary residences; and
Current mark-to-market loan-to-value ratio of 90 percent or more.

New servicer guidance
Fannie Mae's foreclosure prevention efforts have generally been made available to a borrower only after a delinquency occurs. Under Fannie Mae's new guidance, loan servicers can use foreclosure prevention tools to assist distressed borrowers when a borrower demonstrates the need. As noted above, these guidelines apply to borrowers who are still current in their payments, but whose default is reasonably foreseeable. This new guideline is effective immediately, and borrowers may obtain information on eligibility at MakingHomeAffordable.gov.

Hope for Homeowners Plan (HUD)/FHA
The HOPE for Homeowners Act (H4H) Program is effective for endorsements on or after October 1, 2008, through September 30, 2011.
Affordability versus value:  lenders will take a loss on the difference between the existing obligations and the new loan, which is set at 96.5 percent of current appraised value.  The lender may choose to provide homeowners with an affordable monthly mortgage payment through a loan modification rather than accepting the losses associated with declining property values.
Borrower eligibility:  Lenders that determine the H4H program is a feasible and effective option for mitigating losses will assess the homeowner's eligibility for the program:The existing mortgage was originated on or before January 1, 2008;
Existing mortgage payment(s) as of March 1, 2008 exceeds 31 percent of the borrowers gross monthly income for fixed-rate mortgages; For ARMs, the existing mortgage payment(s) exceeds 31 percent of the borrowers gross monthly income as of March 1, 2008 OR the date of the new loan application.
The homeowner did not intentionally default, does not have an ownership interest in other residential real estate and has not been convicted of fraud in the last 10 years under Federal and state law; and
The homeowner did not provide materially false information (e.g., lied about income) to obtain the mortgage that is being refinanced into the H4H mortgage.

Original cost
3 percent upfront mortgage insurance premium and a 1.5 percent annual premium,
Equity and appreciation sharing with the Federal government, and
Prohibition against new junior liens against the property unless they are directly related to property maintenance.The HUDS fact sheet gives full details.

Updated Hope for Homeowners improvements
Eliminates 3% upfront premium
Reduces 1.5% annual premium to a range between .55% and .75%, based on risk-based pricing (also makes technical fix to permit discontinuation of fees when loan balance drops below certain levels, consistent with normal FHA policy)
Raises maximum loan to value (LTV) from 90% to 93% for borrowers above a 31% mortgage debt to income (DTI) ratio or above a 43% ratio
Eliminates government profit sharing of appreciation over market value of home at time of refi. Retains government declining share (from 100% to 50% after five years) of equity created by the refi, to be paid at time of sale or refi as an exit fee
Authorizes payments to servicers participating in successful refis
Administrative simplification:
eliminates borrower certifications regarding not intentionally defaulting on any debt,
eliminates special requirement to collect two years of tax returns,
eliminates originator liability for first payment default,
eliminates March 1, 2008 31% debt-to-income ratio (DTI) test,
eliminates prohibition against taking out future second loans,
requires Board to make documents, forms, and procedures conform to those under normal FHA loans to the maximum extent possible consistent with statutory requirements.

Troubled Assets Relief Program
The Troubled Assets Relief Program is a systematic foreclosure prevention and mortgage modification program established by the Secretary, in consultation with the Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the FDIC and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, that—

Provides lenders and loan servicers with certain compensation to cover administrative costs for each loan modified according to the required standards; and
Provides loss sharing or guarantees for certain losses incurred if a modified loan should subsequently re-default.

Commitment of resources
The comprehensive plan established pursuant to subsection (a) shall require the commitment of funds made available to the Secretary under title I of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 in an amount up to $100,000,000,000 but in no case less than $40,000,000,000.In a press conference Tuesday, Federal Housing Finance Agency director James Lockhart said the program would target high-risk borrowers — those 90 or more days delinquent on their mortgages — and employ various modification strategies to get borrowers down to an “affordable” mortgage payment, defined as 38 percent of a household's monthly gross income on a first mortgage payment.

Analysis of the results of the government-sponsored programs
The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of Thrift Supervision reported on 2009-04-03

"Nearly one in four loan modifications in the fourth quarter actually resulted in increased monthly payments".  This can occur when late fees or past-due interest are added to the monthly payment.
The redefault rate was about 50 percent where the monthly payment was unchanged or increased, and 26 percent where the payment was decreased.

Home Affordable Modification Program
Program Formed
Purpose
The Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) was established on February 18, 2009 to help up from 7 to 8 million struggling homeowners at risk of foreclosure by working with their lenders to lower monthly mortgage payments. The Program is part of the Making Home Affordable Program which was created by the Financial Stability Act of 2009. The program was built as collaboration with banks, services, credit unions, the FHA, the VA, the USDA and the Federal Housing Finance Agency, to create standard loan modification guidelines for lenders to take into consideration when evaluating a borrower for a potential loan modification.  Over 110 major lenders have already signed onto the program.  The Program is now looked upon as the industry standard practice for lenders to analyze potential modification applicants.Early 2012 the Treasury redesigned the HAMP as Tier 1 for the original first-lien modification process and on June 1, 2012 Tier 2 became available. Tier 2 is for either owner-occupied properties or rental properties. For mortgages secured by rental properties, only those that are two or more payments delinquent are eligible.

Eligibility requirements
The program abides by the following eligibility and verification criteria: 

Loans originated on or before January 1, 2009
First-lien loans on owner-occupied properties with unpaid principal balance up to $729,750
Higher limits allowed for owner-occupied properties with 2-4 units
All borrowers must fully document income, including signed IRS 4506-T, proof of income (i.e. paystubs or tax returns), and must sign an affidavit of financial hardship
Property owner occupancy status will be verified through borrower credit report and other documentation; no investor-owned, vacant, or condemned properties
Incentives to lenders and servicers to modify at risk borrowers who have not yet missed payments when the servicer determines that the borrower is at imminent risk of default
Modifications can start from now until December 31, 2016; loans can be modified only once under the program

Loan modification terms and procedures
Participating servicers are required to service all eligible loans under the rules of the program unless explicitly prohibited by contract; servicers are required to use reasonable efforts to obtain waivers of limits on participation.
Participating loan servicers will be required to use a net present value (NPV) test on each loan that is at risk of imminent default or at least 60 days delinquent. The NPV test will compare the net present value of cash flows with modification and without modification. If the test is positive: meaning that the net present value of expected cash flow is greater in the modification scenario: the servicer must modify absent fraud or a contract prohibition.
Parameters of the NPV test are spelled out in the guidelines, including acceptable discount rates, property valuation methodologies, home price appreciation assumptions, foreclosure costs and timelines, and borrower cure and redefault rate assumptions.
Servicers will follow a specified sequence of steps in order to reduce the monthly payment to no more than 31% of gross monthly income (DTI).
The modification sequence requires first reducing the interest rate for trial period of 3–9 months(subject to a rate floor of 2%), then if necessary extending the term or amortization of the loan up to a maximum of 40 years, and then if necessary forbearing principal. Principal forgiveness or a Hope for Homeowners refinancing are acceptable alternatives.
It is noteworthy that this interest rate is not fixed, and will generally increase 1%/year until it reaches what ever the current rate is 5 years after the modification. Often it includes a balloon payment at the end of the first 5 years.  This practice has been found controversial by many in the financial world as it is expected to bring about a slurry of new foreclosures in 5 years when homeowners will once again not be able to pay their mortgage due to the interest rate hike, or the balloon payment.
The monthly payment includes principal, interest, taxes, insurance, flood insurance, homeowner's association and/or condominium fees. Monthly income includes wages, salary, overtime, fees, commissions, tips, social security, pensions, and all other income.
Servicers must enter into the program agreements with Treasury's financial agent on or before December 31, 2009.

Payments to servicers, lenders, and responsible borrowers
The Program will share with the lender/investor the cost of reductions in monthly payments from 38% DTI to 31% DTI.
Servicers that modify loans according to the guidelines will receive an up-front fee of $1,000 for each modification, plus “pay for success” fees on still-performing loans of $1,000 per year.
Homeowners who make their payments on time are eligible for up to $1,000 of principal reduction payments each year for up to five years.
The program will provide one-time bonus incentive payments of $1,500 to lender/investors and $500 to servicers for modifications made while a borrower is still current on mortgage payments.
The program will include incentives for extinguishing second liens on loans modified under this program.
No payments will be made under the program to the lender/investor, servicer, or borrower unless and until the servicer has first entered into the program agreements with Treasury's financial agent.
Similar incentives will be paid for Hope for Homeowner refinances.

Transparency and accountability
Measures to prevent and detect fraud, such as documentation and audit requirements, will be central to the program.
Servicers will be required to collect, maintain and transmit records for verification and compliance review, including borrower eligibility, underwriting, incentive payments, property verification, and other documentation.
Freddie Mac is appointed the compliance officer of the program.

Warnings to people looking to apply for program
Foreclosure rescue and mortgage modification scams are a growing problem. Homeowners must protect themselves so they do not lose money or their home.  Scammers make promises that they cannot keep, such as guarantees to “save” your home or lower your mortgage, often for a fee. Scammers may pretend that they have direct contact with your mortgage servicer when they do not.Even amongst reputable refinance organizations, the fundamental education of the house owner is not stressed.  Some may even request struggling homeowners to pledge their time to become politically active.  The controversy exists between personal integrity and the concept of a 'right to homeownership'.  Many euphemisms are used to implicitly stress the concept that homeownership is not the result of a lifetime of effort but a government-given right.  These euphemisms like "HOPE, relief and Save-the-Dream" as used above in naming or implementing the loan modification programs.  The origins of the word 'mortgage' is a death pledge—a concept that perhaps even exceeds the common view of personal integrity.  At the foundation of homeownership should be a personal long-term commitment to pay the terms of the mortgage.  On the bankers side of the contract, their business model is regulated by the 'social good' which are implemented by government by chartering banks.  If the banks implement policies that lead to financial bubbles and panics, a democratic government is equipped with the tools to uncharter and redistribute a banks assets.Bank crisis in the united states

Free resources for potential applicants
There are free resources available for potential applicants.  

Homeowners can call the Homeowner's HOPE Hotline at 1-888-995-HOPE (4673) for information about the Making Home Affordable Program and to speak with a HUD approved housing counselor. Assistance is available in English and Spanish, and other languages by appointment.
HUD.org helps applicants find a local counselor. HUD.gov
MakingHomeAffordable.gov computes estimated payments and has other resources. Making Home Affordable
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac allow applicants see if their loan is owned by one of them and thus potentially eligible for the program Fannie Mae Loan Look Up Freddie Mac Loan Look Up

Lender participants
A list of lenders signed on is on the Making Home Affordable website  List of HAMP Lenders

See also
Escrow
Neighborhood Assistance Corporation of America (NACA)
Mortgage assumption
Predatory lending