Passage 1:
Harbor Square
Harbor Square, formerly Shore Mall, is a shopping plaza (formerly a shopping mall) in Egg Harbor Township, New Jersey in the United States on U.S. Route 40/U.S. Route 322 originally known as "Searstown". The plaza is accessible from Exit 36 off the Garden State Parkway. The plaza is owned by Aetna Realty. The plaza has a gross leasable area of 337,423 ft², formerly 620,000 ft² when it was a mall, located on 73 acres (300,000 m2) of land. The plaza's anchor stores include Boscov's, Restaurant Depot and Proshot Pickleball.

History
1968-1988
Shore Mall originally opened in 1968 as an open-air mall called Searstown. Original anchor stores included Sears, Grant City and a Pantry Pride supermarket. Between 1971 and 1974, the mall was enclosed and expanded, with regional up-market department store Steinbach being added as a fourth anchor store. A time capsule was buried next to the Steinbach store to be opened 100 years later on March 20, 2074. Grant City was  shuttered in 1976 when the chain declared bankruptcy; by the end of the year, JCPenney opened in the former Grant City space. Pantry Pride was subsequently replaced with Foodtown, and the mall was renamed Shore Mall.
In 1987, Developer Kravco Company (Kravco Company LLC) and JCP Realty, the development arm of JCPenney, opened the new Hamilton Mall about 5 miles west on the Black Horse Pike (U.S. Route 40 and U.S. Route 322).  This caused problems with the Shore Mall, because the Sears and JCPenney anchors moved to the Hamilton Mall. With the two anchors gone, Shore Mall underwent a fair sized renovation enclosing the still open-air portion between the two anchors (pictured to the right in December 2012) as well as re-tiling the mall to its current blue and white color scheme.
In 1988 Clover, a discount chain owned by the Strawbridge's chain (now Macy's), soon opened in the former JCPenney/Grant City space, while Boscov's replaced the former Sears.  Circuit City opened in the former Foodtown, which closed in the early 1990s. Steinbach went out of business in 1995 but was replaced in 1996 with Value City Department Store. Clover closed in 1997 when that chain also faced closure by its parent company, becoming Burlington Coat Factory a year later.

2004-2010
In 2004, Circuit City moved to a strip mall called Hamilton Commons near the Hamilton Mall. The Circuit City's location at the mall was replaced with a K&G Fashion Superstore in 2006 (which has since closed). Since then it has remained vacant but in 2012 it was rented by The Spirit Halloween Costume Store as a seasonal tenant. In January 2006, the Shore Mall was sold Cedar Realty Trust (Formally Cedar Shopping Centers) for $36.5 million.  Their initial plan was to "de-mall" the mall converting it into an open-air plaza.
In 2008, the Value City store at Shore Mall was among 24 locations sold by Value City's parent company to Burlington Coat Factory. The store closed on September 21, 2008 and remained vacant until it was occupied temporarily by The Community Food Bank of New Jersey in 2011-2012 while their permanent location was torn down and reconstructed.
Construction began in 2010 on a Golden Corral restaurant near the main entrance to the mall (where the former Dairy Queen stood, before moving into the outer building where the AT&T store and Wells Fargo bank are located) and opened in 2011.
In August 2010, Cedar Shopping Centers applied for a state Economic Redevelopment and Growth(ERG) grant in the amount of $3 million to $41 million. The grant would be used to help finance an $87 million revamp of the mall. The plan called for demolishing most of the mall (except Boscov's, Burlington Coat Factory, and all everything else that can be seen from the Black Horse Pike), then converting the site to a strip mall with four additional large stores. It also includes $23 million for transportation upgrades such as a reconfiguration of Exit 36 of the Garden State Parkway, an intersection between West Jersey Avenue and the Black Horse Pike, and a boulevard style road network.

2012-present
In July 2012, Cedar Realty Trust stated that they will be razing 1/3 (over 250,000 square feet) of the mall including the former Value City location.  Most tenants will have to relocate as the space will be torn down. After demolition, Cedar Realty Trust plans to do some improvements to the location such as a new south entrance to what is remained of the main shopping center, new landscaping, parking lot improvements, and fencing off the excess land in the rear part of the property to put up for sale as vacant commercial land unless phases of new development occur under the owner.On January 28, 2013,  the Steinbach Time Capsule was dug up in a small ceremony due to demolition process needing it to be moved. The plaque and contents of the capsule were given to the Egg Harbor Township Historical Society who will create a display in remembrance of the mall at their location. Demolition continued through early-mid 2013, including the former Value City store.
The Motor Vehicle Commission office closed on August 23 and August 24, 2013, due to demolition of the back of the mall and the relocation to behind Boscov's which opened on August 26The center was renamed Harbor Square in October 2013. In February 2014, Cedar Realty Trust sold Harbor Square to Aetna Realty for $25 million.In early 2017 the Carrabba's was closed abruptly along with 13 others due to under performance, in Fall 2019, Burlington Coat Factory moved to Consumer Square in Mays Landing.
In May 2023 Restaurant Depot opened in the old Burlington Coat Factory along with Proshot Pickleball and Umi Sushi & Seafood Buffet.

Gallery
Passage 2:
Smith Road, Chennai
Smith Road in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India branches off from Anna Salai, Chennai's arterial road near Spencer Plaza from the TVS Junction to join Whites Road near Hobart Muslim Girls Higher Secondary School.Major companies and organizations located at this road includes

TVS Motors
Data Software Research Company
Passage 3:
Ashley Landing
Ashley Landing (originally opened as Ashley Plaza and later known as Ashley Plaza Mall) is a shopping mall in Charleston, South Carolina, United States. It was the first indoor shopping mall in the West Ashley area of Charleston when the complex was fully completed in 1972. The center, located at 1401 Sam Rittenberg Boulevard (S.C. Highway 7) at the fork of Old Towne Road (S.C. Highway 171) was developed by Gate City Realty Company of Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Ground was broken for the complex in 1962 with Ashley Plaza opening on April 16, 1964.  At its opening the shopping center consisted of J.M. Fields Department Stores joined to a Pantry Pride supermarket, built at a cost of $1.75 million and owned by Sumar Corporation of South Carolina. The locally owned Condon's Department Store, constructed adjacent to Pantry Pride as a freestanding building, became the third tenant when it opened in 1970. The center, originally known as "Ashley Plaza" was noted for its large red and white neon pylon "Ashley Plaza" sign in the center of the parking lot that remained until 1989 when it was destroyed by Hurricane Hugo.

Expansion and mall addition
In April 1972 an indoor shopping mall that was created by adding on to the shopping plaza and enclosing the area between Pantry Pride and Condon's Department Store opened. The mall featured a number of local retailers as well as nationally known retailers and specialty shops and a dual screen General Cinemas (which was later expanded to three screens). A third department store, the locally owned Edward's was also added at this time. With the completion of the enclosed mall came a new name, Ashley Plaza Mall.

Turbulent 1970s and 1980s
The mall thrived for many years during the 1970s, but was dealt several blows beginning in the late 1970s. Perhaps the most devastating was the bankruptcy and subsequent closure of J.M. Fields and Pantry Pride leaving one entire wing of the shopping complex vacant. Locally owned Edward's, on the opposite end of the mall, was purchased by the Kuhn's-Big K Corporation who renamed the store "Big K-Edwards."  The changes were in name only as the merchandise mix was not altered with the sale. Big K was subsequently sold to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. who closed the Big K-Edwards store as it was not large enough to operate as a Wal-Mart. This left another large vacancy on the other end of the shopping center.
The mall's owners worked diligently to secure replacement anchor tenants for the vacant buildings and were successful in leasing the vacant J.M. Fields building to the F.W. Woolworth Company which opened a Woolco Department Store in the building. The Pantry Pride store was leased to a local businessman who opened Jameson's Red & White Supermarket in the vacated space. The former Edward's store remained vacant for a number of years before finally being subdivided and leased to a mattress shop and an unfinished furniture store. While all appeared to be on the upswing for the newly invigorated mall, change was again in store and would deal another devastating blow to the mall.

Woolco closure and Citadel Mall opening
The early 1980s brought a surprising announcement when the F.W. Woolworth Company announced that it was closing all Woolco stores in the United States in 1983. The 87,000-square-foot (8,100 m2) big box store would again be left vacant which made a tremendous impact on traffic at the mall. Two years before Woolco closed, the new 100-store Citadel Mall opened less than three miles (5 km) away from Ashley Plaza Mall. Many of the major national retailers pulled out of Ashley Plaza Mall and opened new locations in the much larger, more modern Citadel Mall. The mall struggled to survive as occupancy rates fell significantly. The supermarket space that formerly housed Pantry Pride and later Jameson's Red & White was leased to another locally based supermarket retailer known as The Big W Food Warehouse and ultimately closed. This space would later temporarily become a locally operated fruit and vegetable retailer for a short time.
A large portion of the mall, including the space formerly occupied by Edward's, was closed in the late 1980s and vacant stores were combined and reconfigured for a Burlington Coat Factory store leaving only one small wing of the indoor mall operating with a handful of merchants.

Hurricane Hugo
On September 22, 1989, the mall was dealt another tremendous blow with the arrival of Hurricane Hugo which caused severe roof and water damage to many of the stores and destroyed some of the exterior facades. It would be several months before the majority of the stores could be repaired and reopened. The exterior was given a fresh new look with synthetic stucco and paint and redesigned storefronts and the remaining interior mall wing was updated with lighter floors and decor. The mall was renamed Ashley Landing (complete with new signage) to honor its close proximity to the nearby Charles Towne Landing state historic site, and "mall" was officially dropped from the name. The remaining indoor mall wing was closed within a short period of time and the individual store spaces combined and converted into space for another discount retailer, 50-Off Stores, which also ultimately closed, thus ending the mall's classification as a true indoor mall.

Conversion to a strip shopping center
With the mall's two concourses now combined to make space for big box retailers, the shopping center returned to its original roots as a strip shopping center. The former Woolco space had been subdivided into two smaller spaces and a portion was leased to Brendle's Catalog Showroom and the remaining space to a regionally owned clothing store, United Clothing Company. The clothing store closed within a year of opening although Brendle's, which had opened in the late 1980s, was rebuilt after Hurricane Hugo and reopened a newly designed store. The store remained at Ashley Landing until the company's subsequent bankruptcy in the mid-1990s. Discount retailer Big Lots leased the former grocery store space and remains there today. Upon Brendle's departure, the subdivided space that originally housed J.M. Fields and later Woolco was once again converted back into a single 87,000-square-foot (8,100 m2) building and leased in 1997 to Carolina Pottery, a large regionally based importer of pottery, housewares and china.
Carolina Pottery remained at the center until 2001 when they suddenly broke their lease and departed resulting in a lawsuit filed by the center's owner, Ashley Plaza Mall Associates. The Carolina Pottery space was once again subdivided - this time into 3 separate buildings, with portions being leased to Dollar Tree and Pivotal Fitness, with a remaining 24,500-square-foot (2,280 m2) space leased to NAPA Auto Parts.
Another dispute emerged between original anchor, Condon's Department Stores, and Ashley Plaza Mall Associates over the center's construction of a new Publix Super Market addition that left large piles of dirt in the parking area, which Condon's claimed blocked customer access to their store and created a dangerous situation for customers. The dispute ultimately led to the Condon's store closing after their lease was not renewed.

Ashley Landing today
The center still suffered from an identity crisis in 2000 when the City of Charleston, in conjunction with the adjoining residential neighborhoods conducted a design charrette for the Ashley Landing site and recommended a number of improvements to the shopping center's owners for revitalization. The city proposed an extensive overhaul of the property in an attempt to make it a neighborhood gathering place, complete with redesigned buildings that would include retail, offices and residences. Design elements such as new store facades, extensive landscaping and brick pedestrian crosswalks were proposed. Representatives from The Cordish Company indicated that they were interested in the city's plans but could not commit to any revitalization efforts due to existing store leases.
It was announced on February 5, 2014, that Faison Enterprises Inc. of Charlotte, NC acquired Ashley Landing for $19.2 million.  Faison is currently undertaking an extensive renovation, revitalization and expansion of the property and adding new tenants that are better suited to the area.  While initial and substantial improvements are underway, Faison has indicated that this is a long-term redevelopment project.  In conjunction with the redevelopment plans, Faison also acquired the adjacent vacant former Piggly Wiggly building and adjoining property located on Sumar Street, which was later sold to the City of Charleston.  Faison Enterprises spun off a majority of its retail holdings in 2017, including Ashley Landing, to a newly formed sister company, Wintergreen Capital.
Passage 4:
Desert Fashion Plaza
Desert Fashion Plaza, formerly known as Desert Inn Fashion Plaza, was an enclosed shopping mall located in Palm Springs, California. The mall was originally developed by Home Savings and Loan Association, which sold the shopping center to Desert Plaza Partnership. In the early 1980s, Desert Plaza Partnership sold the property to DeBartolo Corporation which expanded and revamped the mall to accommodate more shops. Subsequently, sales declined prompting major retailers to close down business at the Desert Fashion Plaza. In 2002, John Wessman of Wessman Development bought the property and proposed a significant redevelopment on the whole site. Demolition began to take place in 2013, and shops, restaurants, and a six-story hotel have opened on part of the site with more planned.
Former anchor tenants in the mall were Saks Fifth Avenue, I. Magnin, and Bank of America.The mall was used as the set for the fictional S'wallow Valley Mall in the 2012 comedy film, Tim and Eric's Billion Dollar Movie.

History
The site of the Desert Fashion Plaza was formerly a resort hotel named the Desert Inn opened and operated by Nellie Coffman, an early settler of Palm Springs. After Nellie's death in the 1950s, sons George Roberson and Earl Coffman, who had continuously assisted Nellie in the operation of the Inn, sold it in 1955 to actress Marion Davies.By April 1956, there were plans for a $4.5 million, five story hotel and shopping center on the site. The project would have originally included a swimming pool, a Las Vegas-style restaurant, and a theater for both Broadway plays and cinema films during the winter and summer seasons, respectively. The hotel itself would accommodate 200 rooms and suites, along with a parking space for 1,000 cars. Victor Gruen and Associates were to be the architects to design the project, with Joseph Bliti of New York being contracted for the proposed construction. The proposed center was scheduled for completion by November 1957. However, the plans never came to fruition due to Davies's health deteriorating at the time.
Davies eventually sold the land for $2.5 million to developers Samuel Firks and George Alexander in 1960. Alexander and Firks originally envisioned an eight-story hotel that would accommodate 300 rooms and a 1,600 parking space facility for a proposed $4 million. Plans for redeveloping the Desert Inn fell, which prompted the Alexander Construction Company to focus more of using the property for commercial use instead.On November 14, 1965, Alexander and his spouse Mildred, along with their son Robert and his wife Helene, were all killed when their plane impacted shortly after taking off from Palm Springs International Airport. The plane was expected to reach Hollywood-Lockheed Air Terminal, but the plane lost control while in flight and collided into the Chocolate Mountains region near Indio, California. All plans for redeveloping the old site were dropped.

Operation
After Alexander's death, Home Savings and Loan Association obtained the Desert Inn property in 1966. That same year, developer Joseph K. Eichenbaum released a statement on plans of constructing a multi-million dollar commercial center on the old site. Architect Charles Luckman was commissioned to design the new shopping mall. Demolition of the Desert Inn began in August 1966.The Desert Inn Fashion Plaza was officially opened to the public on October 16, 1967, with the grand opening of a 20,000 square-foot I. Magnin, which represented the retailer's return to Palm Springs after its 1933–1942 presence with a resort shop at the El Mirador Hotel. A month before the mall opened, Luckman and Leonard R. Lockhart, first vice president of Home Savings and Loan Associates, were both honored by Southern California Edison for the all-electrical design.In 1969, Joseph Magnin Co. broke ground on a 26,000 square foot department store in the mall. The new store would anchor at the corner of North Palm Canyon Drive and Andreas Road, and was set to open in September the same year. San Francisco-based architects, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, would design the store, along with contractors Diversified Builders, Inc.
In addition, 12 other major establishments also opened up in the new mall, including: Bank of America, Belmont Savings & Loan, P'iddlers Three Restaurant, Stuard's Sahara, Silverwoods, Islamania, Michael's, Robert Sands Hairstyling, Master's Candies, Village Card & Gift Shop and Orange Julius.In 1978, Home Savings and Loan Associates sold the Desert Inn Fashion Plaza to Desert Plaza Partnership. The group compromised Arthur Gilbert, David Blum and Gerson Fox; three partners that were based in Los Angeles.

Expansion
During the 1980s, major shopping destinations such as Palm Desert Town Center and the El Paseo Shopping District were growing rapidly in Palm Desert, California. National chains also opened up businesses throughout the Palm Desert area. Because of this, most local shops that were in the central hub of Palm Springs began to shift away into other areas that were also seeing growth. This situation prompted Desert Plaza Partnership to focus on plans of expanding the mall.
In 1983, Edward J. DeBartolo Corp. announced an agreement with Desert Plaza Partnership to renovate the Desert Inn Fashion Plaza for $42 million. The Ohio-based corporation planned to enlarge the mall to accommodate more tenants, a six-story hotel, and underground parking. Meanwhile, the local redevelopment agency was authorized to help developers acquire the additional property needed for the potential project.In 1984, redevelopment took place by first razing historic-period buildings on the site, and setting up the new section on top. At the same time, Joseph Magnin announced that they would close their remaining 24 stores, including the one in Palm Springs due to bankruptcy.
The mall was officially opened on November 16, 1985, under the new name of Desert Fashion Plaza. I. Magnin and Saks Fifth Avenue would serve as the main anchors of the newly redeveloped mall, as well as a hotel called Maxim's Paris Suite Hotel.

Decline
Despite the new stores that were opened, mall traffic did not increase considerably. In the years to come, retail sales declined and by 1991, Silverwoods men's clothing and Marie Callender's moved out of the still partially vacant Desert Fashion Plaza. Hyatt Regency Suites bought the hotel management and renamed it as Hyatt Palm Springs.
In 1992, R.H. Macy & Co. closed the Palm Springs location of I. Magnin after several years in operation citing that their store was not a “suitable location" at the Desert Fashion Plaza.In 1995, developer Mark Bragg, a former adviser to Ronald Reagan, and the ever-present Eddie DeBartolo Jr. teamed up to pass a measure which approved card clubs at three sites: two controlled by Bragg, and the third at DeBartolo's Desert Fashion Plaza mall. Palm Springs voted a ballot by a 2-to-1 margin for the gambling establishment.
At a cost of $13.5 million, Phoenix-based Arizona Partners became the new owners of Desert Fashion Plaza. Arizona Partners planned on expanding the Desert Fashion Plaza to over 350,000 square feet and removing the roof to make the mall open-air. The main entrance was to be an open air plaza with outdoor dining, shops, and gather places, plus a 3,000-seat cinema and a 2,400 seat live theater; the project would have been renamed The Promenade. The first phase of the project would begin in mid-1998 and be completed sometime at the end of the year.
By the beginning of 1999, about 75% of the tenants inside the mall were closed down. At the same time, San Diego-based Excel Legacy Corporation scrapped Arizona Partners's concepts and proposed its own project. Developer MBK Southern California Ltd. would design the center. Their decision was to bulldoze the whole mall and replace it with an open air plaza. Proposed tenants included Saks, a two-story multiplex theater, a food court, gourmet market, restaurants and various specialty shops. However, the concept was never realized, and the owners decided to sell the mall for an asking price of $25 million.
In 2000, the Agua Caliente Development Authority, a subsidiary of the Agua Caliente Band of Cahuilla Indians, considered the  purchase and redevelopment of Desert Fashion Plaza, and were in discussions with Palm Springs city officials and the director of the Palm Springs Desert Museum. Agua Caliente ultimately made the decision to not to buy the property.
Developer John Wessman purchased the Desert Fashion Plaza and initially planned a Spanish-Mediterranean plaza on the site. Simultaneously, Saks Fifth Avenue closed down their location and moved to a new store in the El Paseo shopping district down in Palm Desert. At the same time, the attacks on September 11, 2001 caused the project to slow down.

Demolition and Redevelopment
In 2011, it was announced that workers were to begin the process of removing the large tent behind the mall, which removed in several phrases with the first stage.After more than a decade since the mall sat empty, redevelopment finally moved forward on February 7, 2013, with the demolition of the mall. The large, vacant property would be turned into an outdoor shopping center with new shops, restaurants, and a six-story hotel. Wessman pledged that demolition of the plaza would take just four months, and that 90% of the materials would be recycled.Before construction commenced in the middle of the same year, a lawsuit was filed by Frank Tysen, a member of the Citizens for a Sustainable Palm Springs, and owner of Casa Cody Bed & Breakfast. Tysen and his group were suing because it believes the city did not follow the proper protocol when it came to a petition that was submitted. The petition asked the city to place a portion of the concept on a ticket. However, the city of Palm Springs opted out of the deal saying that the redevelopment action was considered as administrative, and not legislative action. In April 2014, the court denied the halt of the project.
The mall was demolished in 2014. A Kimpton Hotel (Rowan) opened in 2017 on the southeast portion of the site. Other shops on or near the former mall property include H&M and Free People, as well as several smaller shops and restaurants.
Passage 5:
L. L. Berger
L. L. Berger was a high-end department store based in Buffalo, New York. The family owned store was started by Louis L. Berger in 1905, at 500 Main Street. The company grew through the next two decades and opened its flagship store at 514 Main Street on February 4, 1929. The first suburban branch opened in 1953, at Thruway Plaza (later Thruway Mall) in Cheektowaga, New York, followed in 1960, with a location at Sheridan Plaza, in Tonawanda (Town), New York. At the death of its founder in 1967, the L. L. Berger company was "compared in fashion retailing to Saks Fifth Avenue and Lord and Taylor in New York, I. Magnin in San Francisco, and Neiman Marcus in Dallas." Expansion continued with stores opening in 1969, at the Seneca Mall, in West Seneca, New York and 1970, at the Northtown Plaza in Amherst, New York. Additional stores opened in 1975, at the Lockport Mall, in Lockport, New York; in 1982 at the Transitown Plaza in Clarence, New York; in 1988 at the McKinley Mall, in Hamburg, New York; and in 1989 at the Walden Galleria in Cheektowaga, New York. A second Buffalo location opened at 510 Elmwood Avenue in the early 1980s. The company filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 1991. In the early 2000s the flagship store was renovated to be upscale apartments and commercial space.
Passage 6:
The Plaza (mall)
The Plaza, formerly known as Evergreen Plaza, was a shopping mall in Evergreen Park, Illinois, United States. It was legally organized by Arthur Rubloff, who is also credited with coining the phrase "Magnificent Mile" describing the upscale section of Michigan Avenue north of the Chicago River to Oak Street.  Rubloff secured the funding for the Evergreen Plaza from the Walgreen family who lived nearby in Beverly, Chicago.  The Evergreen Plaza operated from 1952 to 2013. It featured over 120 stores, as well as a food court. The mall closed in 2013 and became an outdoor shopping center. Anchors include Whole Foods Market, and Burlington Coat Factory.

History
In 1936, developer Arthur Rubloff conceived a shopping mall in the Evergreen Park area located between the corners of W 95th Street and Western Ave, 98th Street and Western Ave., 98th Street slightly west of Campbell Ave., 96th Street and Campbell Ave., and 95th and Campbell Ave. Opened to the public in August 1952, the mall was originally an 500,000-square-foot (46,000 m2) open-air shopping center anchored by The Fair Store, Lytton's, Barnett's, and Walgreens. The center also contained a Jewel supermarket, which featured a conveyor belt that carried groceries from the store to a parking lot kiosk. The mall's Walgreens was the second self-service Walgreen pharmacy in the chain; it was also the chain's first location in a shopping center.
Evergreen Plaza was regarded by some sources as the first regional mall in the United States. Chas. A. Stevens added a store in 1962, Carson Pirie Scott was added as another anchor. Also, The Fair Store was converted to Montgomery Ward in April, 1964. In 1966, the mall was enclosed, becoming an indoor mall.Circuit City came in the early 1990s, replacing a Silo electronics store that was formerly in this space.Montgomery Ward closed its four-story store in 2001 as the chain declared bankruptcy. Shortly afterward, Village of Evergreen Park officials submitted proposals for Target to open in the former Wards; however, these deals fell through. Discount chain National Wholesale Liquidators opened in 2005, occupying two levels of the four-level anchor slot once occupied by Montgomery Ward until it closed in 2008. Walgreens closed in 2005, moving to a newer store about a mile away, and was replaced with an Office Depot. Circuit City also closed in mid-2005.
The movie theater, which had been converted to a triplex in 1977 and quadplex in 1983, closed in 1999. Office Depot closed its Evergreen Park location in 2008, along with many other small retail shops over the last few years. Following 2008, the mall began to gradually diminish as patronage numbers decreased, leading to the chronic closure of many of the original stores. Many businesses that had opened in more recent years had shorter longevity. Planet Fitness signed a 10-year lease to reside in the Plaza in 2011 in the original Walgreens space and began operation in January 2012.
The mall was scheduled for demolition in July 2013, to be replaced by an outdoor shopping center (which the Plaza once was during its first 14 years). However, the building was not demolished and more proposals and rumors started floating around. Two development companies, Debartolo LLC, based in Tampa, and Lormax Stern, a developer from a Detroit suburb, came together to reach a deal to demolish the existing property to build a new outdoor mall that will feature 30-40 brand new stores including Burlington and Whole Foods. Applebee's and Planet Fitness are staying, while Enterprise Rent-A-Car left. Demolition began in May 2015 and continued until the fall of 2017. Carson's opened a brand-new store in September 2016, replacing the older store that was later demolished. The shopping center opened in Fall of 2017. On April 18, 2018, Carson's parent company The Bon-Ton Stores, announced that they will close all Carson's locations, including the Evergreen Plaza location following their bankruptcy. However, on Black Friday 2018, CSC Generation, Carson's new owner, reopened the location. On August 11, 2020, it was announced that Carson's would be closing again in October 2020. On June 16, 2022, it was announced that Macy's would be opening in the former Carson's space. The first floor will hold Market by Macy's and the second floor will hold Macy's Backstage.

Evergreen Theater
On June 26, 1964, Evergreen Theater was added in a separate building, located on the mall's south end. It first opened with two screens and sat upon the parking lot by 98th Street and Western Ave.  Later, two more screens were added. Even later, two more screens were added, bringing the total up to six.  In 1973, the manager was shot and killed during a robbery; other incidents occurred which led to its closure in July 1999. In 2003 the venue was torn down, along with the parking garage, on the west corner of the mall for landscaped parking, and parking entrances were widened. That same year, an Applebee's opened on an outparcel.
Passage 7:
The Crossings at Northwest
The Crossings at Northwest is a mixed-use commercial center containing 400,000 SF of retail and 500,000 SF of office uses located in St. Ann, a suburb of St. Louis, Missouri, United States. It was redeveloped from the old Northwest Plaza. The former mall comprised nearly 1,770,000 square feet (164,438.4 m2) of gross leasable area, making it the 27th largest mall in the United States according to the International Council of Shopping Centers prior to its closure. With a total of 1.9 million square feet (180,000 m2) of enclosed space, it was the largest enclosed mall in the state of Missouri. The mall featured nine anchor stores and more than 210 stores at its peak.

History
Beginning
Northwest Plaza opened in 1965 as an open-air shopping center comprising 1,600,000 square feet of retail space. The developers were Louis Zorensky, Milton Zorensky and Saul Brodsky.  At the time the mall opened, it was the largest mall in the world. It was anchored by Famous-Barr, JCPenney, and Sears. Junior anchors included local department stores Vandervoort's (opened in 1965) and Boyd's (an upscale apparel store), a Walgreens pharmacy, and a two-story Woolworth dime store. The Famous-Barr (later Macy's) store also featured a rotunda. In 1969, a 12-story 194,000 sq ft (18,000 m2) adjacent office tower was added to the mall. Stix Baer & Fuller later joined the center between 1971 and 1983. When Vandervoort's closed, its building was leased by Famous-Barr to use as its home fashions store while the basement was leased to Venture Stores for office space. Dillard's acquired and re-branded all Stix, Baer & Fuller stores in 1984 including the River Roads Mall location in North St. Louis County.

Paramount
Paramount enclosed and expanded the mall in 1989, adding more than 200,000 square feet (18,580.6 m2) of retail space in the process. The enclosed space contained nearly 2 million square feet (190,000 m2), making it one of the largest malls in the country. The biggest change was remodeling the Famous-Barr home store/Venture office space into a mixed-use complex. A 40,000 square foot (3,716.1 m2) Tilt! arcade, including an 18-hole miniature golf course, was opened in the basement, the main level became a 12-bay food court, and a 9-screen movie theater was added on the upper level, replacing a freestanding cinema complex in the mall's parking lot. Kids "R" Us was also added shortly after the mall's enclosure, and the large Woolworth store was shuttered in early 1989 when the mall terminated its lease. Phar-Mor and Oshman's Sporting Goods were added in the early 1990s. In 1993 Phar-Mor closed due to a corporate scandal that threw the company into bankruptcy. After a mid-1990s lull with occupancy dropping to 86%, an unorthodox approach revived the struggling mall increasing occupancy to 96%. Office supply store chain OfficeMax opened one of its first mall-based location at Northwest Plaza in 1997. Also, opening in 1997 was the area's first Dick Clark's American Bandstand Grill.

Westfield
Northwest Plaza was acquired in late 1997 by the Westfield Group for $111 million, who renamed the mall "Westfield Shoppingtown Northwest" (later shortened to "Westfield Northwest" in June 2005) to match the nomenclature of other malls in their portfolio. Under Westfield's tenure, the mall opened many new stores. Burlington Coat Factory moved into the former Oshman's, Schweig Engel Furniture moved into the old Phar-Mor, and many other stores: American Eagle Outfitters, and Bath & Body Works opened. Gap, which had closed in 1996, returned to the mall. By 1999, the occupancy rate had increased to 98%. Additional plans for renovation were made by Westfield Corporation, but these plans never got beyond the addition of family restroom and a children's play area.  Around this time, Westfield instead focused more on driving customer business to other area malls such as West County Center in Des Peres and Mid Rivers Mall in St. Peters, in turn neglecting Northwest Plaza, along with its redevelopment and upkeep. The first major vacancy at Northwest Plaza was JCPenney in 2002. Northwest Plaza had the second lowest occupancy rate of a Westfield mall, which was just 79% at year-end 2004.

Somera
After years of continued decline, Westfield Corporation sold the mall in June 2006 to Somera Capital Management, LLC. After having bought the mall for $45 million, with General Growth Properties acting as third-party leasing and management agent, the mall's name reverted to Northwest Plaza. As per the Federated Stores/May Co. merger, Famous-Barr was re-branded as Macy's. Later in 2007, the Tilt closed for good.Somera unveiled a redevelopment plan in which the mall would become Lindbergh Town Center. In the plan, a small part of the Macy's hallway plus the former Kids "R" Us would be turned into a lifestyle center. The Dillard's and the hallway between it and Sears would become a new anchor, plus the old food court/theater/Tilt would revert to an anchor. The remaining mall was to be renovated to feature a new "picnic inspired" food court (on the upper level of the former Woolworth's), new flooring, new paint, new skylights, a "Secret Garden" themed play area, and a feature coffee kiosk. After the foreclosure of Northwest Plaza in September 2009, Somera was no longer associated with the property.

Crime
After the expansion of Northwest Plaza, the mall developed a reputation for crime. Part of this was because of multiple fatal shootings that occurred at the mall. The first fatality was in 1990. There was a second shooting in 1994 inside the Famous-Barr store, which resulted in the death of a teenager. In 2006, the third shooting involved an off-duty police officer who fatally shot a man inside the mall.

Damage
The mall suffered from a leaking roof. Also, crumbling floor tiles in the north court caused by the leaking roof between the former Sears and Dillard’s required it to be blocked off from foot traffic. The Tilt! arcade's 18-hole miniature golf course left behind after it closed was damaged beyond repair by vandalism, and subsequently the basement area was walled off. The food court which used to contain a 12-bay court, as well as the 9-screen cinema were also both walled off due to the extensive water damage.

Decline
The anchor stores once included (even as of 2008) Famous-Barr (later Macy's), Steve & Barry's, Dillard's and Sears. Other anchors at one time included JCPenney and Burlington Coat Factory. Junior anchors included the Wehrenburg Northwest Plaza 9 screen cinema, Tilt! arcade, Office Max as well as Schweig Engel Furniture and Toys "R" Us (built on part of the mall's massive parking lot).
Northwest Plaza's highest grossing sales year was 2001. The early 2000s recession caused a small decline in the number of stores occupying Northwest Plaza. A rapid decline began in 2004, due to the increased competition from St. Louis Mills mall, which opened only 4 miles (6.4 km) away from Northwest Plaza. At the same time, the mall was suffering from lack of upkeep by then current owner Westfield. The mall's roof was examined under their ownership, and determined it needed to be replaced, among other things. Rather than the expensive rehabilitation of the mall, Westfield concluded it would not be cost effective, and decided to sell the mall entirely. When it was sold in 2006, Northwest Plaza had an occupancy rate of just 64%. Business continued to decline and when the late 2000s recession hit, most of the remaining stores vacated the mall. It was considered a dead mall by 2009.JCPenney was the first anchor store to close in 2002. OfficeMax was the second to leave the mall, and remaining vacant for eighteen months before being replaced by 24 Hour Fitness. Burlington Coat Factory then left to move to St. Louis Mills mall, but it was soon rented out to Ford Motor Company. Schweig Engel Furniture closed in July 2004 when the company went bankrupt but it was briefly replaced with discount retailer US Factory Outlets the following spring before becoming vacant again. Furniture retailer IKEA had also planned to open a store at the mall, but later withdrew its plans. Also in 2004 there was the addition of a Retail Skills Center, which offered training and placement facilities for people seeking careers in retail, the first such center in the Midwest, and discount clothing retailer Steve & Barry's in the former JCPenney. At the time Steve & Barry's opened, it was the largest in the chain. The mall's movie theater complex closed for good in September 2005. Toys "R" Us left the mall in early 2006. The Tilt! arcade closed in the summer of 2007, moving most of their arcades to other stores, namely their newest location in St. Louis Mills, despite being rated as one of the top 3 arcades in the St Louis area in 2003. Steve & Barry's closed in 2008, a year before the company became defunct. In early 2009, Dillard's left.Northwest Plaza entered foreclosure and was auctioned on September 1, 2009. The shopping center was purchased by the only bidder at foreclosure, St. Ann Shopping Center LLC, for $29.95 million. The Macy's store closed in March 2010 and the Sears store closed in July 2010, the final anchor stores to leave. The final store left in November 2010. This left the mall with no internal stores. As of January 1, 2011, Northwest Plaza's doors have been permanently locked. Public access to the building is no longer allowed, as the only stores remaining are contained in the mall's outer ring (with external entrances only) and parking lot. The office tower remains open, but with entrances to the mall blocked. The future of the mall is unknown, with the idea of a total demolition, and the entire lot renovated into an office complex is one of the main proposals.

Redevelopment efforts
In March 2010, the St. Ann Board of Aldermen voted to select G.J. Grewe Development Co. of Crestwood, Missouri as the preferred re-developer of the mall. It is expected that the bulk of the mall will be torn down (although the current office tower could remain) and its 122-acre (0.49 km2) site remade as a mixed-use development with offices and some retail. The developer was expected to work with Sears, the only remaining anchor at the time, to keep its store on the site, but not necessarily at the same location. In light of the closing of the Sears store, it is unclear how this will affect the redevelopment effort. The city of St. Ann holds a purchase option on Northwest Plaza that was set to expire on December 31, 2010.There have been a number of people in the area who are calling for the redevelopment of the site, rather than having a very large empty building. Demolition of the mall is anticipated, as efforts to revive the mall have failed. The new plans call for a completely new complex. The only part of the mall expected to remain is the office tower. It is expected this new complex will contain both office buildings as well as condos.As reported by the St. Louis Post-Dispatch on July 6, 2011, the distressed Northwest Plaza, with no internal stores which has an 8% overall occupancy, with the office tower less than 50%, was put up for auction online by current owner, a division of Wells Fargo for $1.25 million in an attempt to spark interest in the property. The property failed to meet expectations though, as the bidding fell short of the minimum price.

Crossings at Northwest
Northwest Plaza was purchased by NWP LLC from St Ann Shopping Center LLC for $10 million in 2012. An approval of $33 million in TIF allowed for redevelopment of the center. The $106 million redevelopment of the 122 acre site began in 2012 with demolition of 1,000,000 square feet of the 1.8 million square foot mall, renovation of the office tower, and building big box stores, restaurants, and other outlot development. The demolition and completion of the project occurred in spring 2015.The redeveloped property is named The Crossings At Northwest. Menards, a chain of home improvement stores in the Midwest, was announced as the first large retail tenant.  The conceptual site plan calls for an additional 89,600 SF second anchor, two 30,000 SF Jr. anchors 26,000 SF of small shop retail and 10 outlots. Menards opened in August 2015.  The former Macy's Department Store has been renovated and Charter Communications opened a $16 million call center in January 2016 occupying 135,000 SF.  Tenet Conifer has leased an additional 48,000 SF in the renovated office tower. Ruler Foods has opened a 10,000SF location in the development.  An 80,000 SF retail strip center opened in early 2017. Current tenants include Bob's Furniture, Edge Fitness Club, and Value City Furniture.  Starbucks also opened an outlot location on site in 2017.  Save-A-Lot food stores announced that they would be moving their corporate headquarters to the site from Earth City.  Some 450 existing jobs along with 65 new positions will occupy 162,000 SF of space.  Additionally, American Family Insurance  leased 81,000 SF of space, relocating from an existing office in the Riverport area of Maryland Heights. St. Louis County leased 155,000 square feet in 2016 for a 20-year term for use as its Government Center Northwest. As of 2019, the redevelopment was home to about 4,000 jobs. In fall 2021, Discount Tire opened on the final outlot of the redevelopment. Other outlots were previosuly developed into Freddy's Frozen Custard & Steakburgers, Popeye's Panda Express, Sherwin Williams, Raising Cane's, QT, the previously mentioned Starbucks, two retail strip centers containing First Watch, Sprint, Jersey Mike's Subs, GNC, and Cricket Wireless. One outlot containing a freestanding Jack-In-The-Box dates has been in operation since prior to the closure of the original mall.
Passage 8:
Farmers Plaza
Farmers Plaza is a shopping mall located at the Araneta City in Cubao, Quezon City. Renovated and expanded in 1999 and in 2014, the five-level complex is the first ever fully first enclosed, air-conditioned mall in the Philippines, making it one of the oldest commercial buildings in the country. The mall is owned by the ACI, Inc. and offers 60,400 m2 (650,000 sq ft) of retail space, occupied mostly by various merchandise and lifestyle outlets.

History
Originally named the "Coliseum Farmers Market and Shopping Center", the mall was constructed in 1968, and opened its doors in 1969, nine years after the opening of the Araneta Coliseum. The mall was designed by Filipino architect Antonio Sevilla Sindiong. Sindiong, along with Fernando Hizon Ocampo (Sindiong/Ocampo), were also responsible for the architectural designs of Ali Mall, located along P. Tuazon Boulevard. The mall is known as the first air-conditioned mall in the country and hosted numerous commercial establishments, including the Farmers Market, as one of the original tenants of the building. The market occupied the building's lower ground floor since its opening, until in 1975, when the market was moved to its new site, located across the mall. Due to the mall's location to various entertainment facilities and department stores, the mall also complemented with various buildings such as Ali Mall, located two blocks away, and made Cubao a bustling shopping hub throughout its time, and entered stiff competition to malls such as Harrison Plaza, the first mall in the country to include a department store within the building; Greenhills Shopping Center, and other shopping districts such as the Makati Central Business District and the areas of Binondo and Quiapo in Manila.In 1985, the mall encountered a fire that destroyed many parts of the building. Three years later, the mall was rebranded and renamed as the "New Farmers Plaza Shopping Center", also known as "New Farmers Plaza", after being delayed within the construction phase following the political uncertainties within the 1986 People Power Revolution and the coups made by Reform the Armed Forces Movement and Marcos Loyalists in the following months after the revolution. The mall also faced its second renovation project in 1990 and was completed in 1991. In early 1991, a stampede in Cinema 2 was caused by a 31-year-old shouting "fire" during a screening of My Pretty Baby, injuring 20 people.Following the construction of the Araneta Center-Cubao MRT Station located adjacent to the mall, the mall entered its third renovation in 1999 and was completed in 2001, where the western portions of the mall were renovated, and connect the mall to the adjacent MRT Station. The mall became the first property within the Araneta Center to be renovated as part of the Araneta Center Master Plan. The mall entered its fourth renovation project in 2012, and was completed in 2014, featuring a new and modernized facade and interiors, upgraded facilities and amenities, and enhanced security systems.

Location and transportation
The mall is directly linked to the Line 3 Araneta Center-Cubao station, and is located along one of Metro Manila’s busiest thoroughfare, EDSA. The mall is also directly connected to the Smart Araneta Coliseum, the Gateway Mall, the Gateway Tower, and the upcoming New Gateway Mall and the Ibis Styles Araneta City. The mall is also located close to the Araneta Center–Cubao LRT Station, the New Frontier Theater, the Manhattan Gardens complex, the Araneta City Cyberpark, the Aurora Tower, the SM Cubao, and Ali Mall. The mall is also used as a terminal for UV Express vehicles.

Features
The mall consists of 5-levels and has 60,400 m2 (650,000 sq ft) of retail spaces, and is occupied by a mix of international and local shops; lifestyle, electronic, and merchandising shops; dining outlets and entertainment facilities. The mall also has 100 outdoor parking slots, and features 193 stores anchored by Robinsons Easymart (formerly Wellcome), Handyman, Mercury Drug, Bench, National Book Store, Penshoppe and other shops. The mall also features a Food Court (Food Plaza) and an activity area atrium, where public events, sales and concerts were held, both located at the Lower Ground Floor; and the Farmers Plaza Bazaar, an indoor bazaar, featuring fashion, electronics, and food stores, located at the 4th floor.

Gallery
Passage 9:
Alsa Mall
Alsa Mall is a shopping mall on Montieth Road in the neighbourhood of Egmore in Chennai, India. Established in the mid-1980s, along with the Spencer Plaza, it is one of the oldest surviving malls in the city. Alsa Mall has a variety of shops in and around it. It is also considered to be a hangout location for youngsters during evening owing to the variety of street food vendors who hold business in the mall.

History
Alsa Mall was a private property before it was converted into a mall. Along with the Spencer Plaza, it remained one of the premier shopping malls in the city until the 2000s, when numerous malls began to appear across the city. In 2013, the mall became the first mall to host the state-owned Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation's (Tasmac) first premium alcoholic beverages outlet.

See also
Shopping in Chennai
Passage 10:
Spencer Plaza
Spencer Plaza (Tamil: ஸ்பென்சர் பிளாசா) is a shopping mall located on Anna Salai in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India, and is one of the  modern landmarks of the city. Originally built during the period of the British Raj and reconstructed in 1985 on the site of the original Spencer's department store, it is the oldest shopping mall in India and was one of the biggest shopping malls in South Asia when it was built. It is one of the earliest Grade A commercial projects of the city, which were developed in the second half of the 1990s. As of March 2010, it is the 11th largest mall in the country, with a gross leasable (retail) area of 530,000 sq ft.

History
Spencer Plaza was built in 1863–1864, established by Charles Durant and J. W. Spencer in Anna Salai, then known as Mount Road, in the Madras Presidency. The property originally belonged to Spencer & Co Ltd. Spencer & Co opened the first department store in the Indian subcontinent in 1895. It had over 80 individual departments. After a few years, Eugene Oakshott, owner of Spencer's, shifted the department store to a new building, which was an example of Indo-Saracenic style of architecture. The building was designed by W. N. Pogson. In 1983, the original building was destroyed in a fire.
The present Spencer Plaza was constructed on the same site, measuring about 10 acres, and was opened in 1991. Spread across a million square feet built in three phases with parking space for 800 cars, the plaza is a major hangout for the people of Chennai. The mall was developed by Mangal Tirth Estate Limited in January 1993.

Building
The plaza is an eight-storey shopping-cum-office complex of approximately 1.068 million sq ft, consisting of nearly 600,000 square feet (56,000 m2) of air-conditioned shopping units and 400,000 square feet (37,000 m2) of office units. The shopping arcade is located on the ground, first and second floors in all three phases, and the office units are spread between the fourth and the seventh floors. The car parks are spread over the basement, ground, second and third floors, in addition to double basement parking lots in the third phase of the building.The first phase of the building consists of about 300,000 sq ft, including about 125,000 sq ft of centrally air-conditioned shopping space and 100,000 sq ft of office units together with about 75,000 sq ft of service areas. The second phase consists of about 400,000 sq ft, with a provision for about 600 cars at the basement, with shops with various sizes ranging from 300 sq ft to 2,000 sq ft. The third phase covers another 300,000 sq ft. The theme of the third phase is based on colonnaded structure recreating the old Spencer's around a full-height atrium.There are over 700 shops in the plaza and over 22,000 people visit the plaza every day, with the number increasing to 40,000 on weekends and to 60,000 on festival days. The complex has three counters to keep track of footfalls. Over 20,000 two-wheelers check into the parking lot on weekends.

Technical and safety aspects
Being a high-rise building, the complex has a wet riser system and electronic fire alarm system installed. The underground sump has a storage capacity of 100,000 litres (22,000 imp gal; 26,000 US gal). A ring main surrounds the building from the pump room. Five wet risers run from basement to the second floor and three run from the fourth floor to the seventh floor. These risers are located at strategic points in each floor. The pump room has three pumps, one jockey pump, one main pump with an electric motor and one main pump connected with a diesel engine. The electronic fire detection system comprises smoke detectors and manual call points located in various points in common areas in all floors, sub-stations, electrical rooms, A/C plant and so forth, which are connected to a centralised computer located at the enclosures of the chief security officer. There are also many portable fire extinguishers at each floor in different locations. The rear periphery of the building has fire escape stairs, with fire escape routes displayed with signboards at various points of the building. The car ramps can also be used as fire escape routes. The building has two entrances, one from Binny Road and another from Anna Salai, for fire engines.Fire safety includes a water capacity of 1.2 million litres, fire sprinklers, smoke and heat detection systems and fire extinguishers. The in-house fire department has six firemen per shift.

Shops
The mall hosts major anchor stores such as Westside (spread across 20,000 sq ft) and Landmark (40,000 sq ft), and several local and international brands such as Nike, Adidas, Bata, Regal, Health & Glow, Vummidiars, Van Heusen, Proline, Allen Solly, Florshaim shoes, Lipton, Louis Philippe, Titan, Levi's, Casio, V.I.P. Luggage, Spencer & Co (40,000 sq ft on the ground, first and second floors), Timex Watch Showroom, Swatch, Cookie Man, BPL (Profx), Color Plus, Navigator, Witco, Pantaloons (26,000 sq ft), Arrow, Lee, Music World (now closed), Food World, HSBC, ABN AMRO, American Express, Citibank (65,000 sq ft in second and third phases), First Flight and Du Bowl (16,000 sq ft). McDonald's, the world's largest fast food chain, has established an outlet.

On 26 February 2004, the Sri Lanka Export Development Board (SLEDB) established a trade centre at the complex at a cost of ₹17 million. The Sri Lanka Trade Centre is spread over 20,000 sq ft on the first floor at the third phase of the building. Seventeen frontline Sri Lankan companies display apparel, artificial flowers, confectionaries, footwear and leather products, gems and jewellery, herbal products, light engineering products, porcelain, tableware, Ceylon tea and toys.

Incidents
On 4 September 2008, a fire erupted on the first floor of the building's first phase around 10:20 p.m. local time, perhaps due to a short circuit. A garment shop was burned in the incident. With the help of 12 water tenders and 9 fire tenders, the fire was extinguished within 30 minutes, and no casualties were reported. The firemen had easy access to the spot, mainly due to the setback space available inside the building.