Passage 1:
Salsa (1988 film)
Salsa is a 1988 romance film directed by Boaz Davidson and starring Robby Rosa, Rodney Harvey, Angela Alvarado and Miranda Garrison. The film, about a Puerto Rican dancer who decides to enter a salsa dancing contest, earned a Razzie Award nomination for Rosa as Worst New Star.

Plot
In a nightly escape from his day job as a mechanic, Rico (Robby Rosa) enters his true element: the wild exuberance of "La Luna" , a salsa club located in East Los Angeles, California. Dreaming of making himself and Vicky (Angela Alvarado), his girlfriend the "King and Queen of Salsa", Rico pours all his energy into winning La Luna's Grand Salsa Competition. But when Luna (Miranda Garrison), the club's gorgeous owner sets her sights on making Rico her dance partner, Rico must decide what drives him, his ambition or his heart.

Cast
As themselves

Reception
On review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a 20% approval rating based on five reviews.

Soundtrack
"Margarita" - H. Wilkins
"Chicos y chicas" - Mavis Vegas Davis
"Cali Pachanguero" - Grupo Niche
"Your Love" - Laura Branigan
"Good Lovin'" - Kenny Ortega, Chain Reaction, The Edwin Hawkins Singers
"Under My Skin" - Robby Rosa
"Oye Como Va" - Tito Puente
"I Know" - Marisela Esqueda, The Edwin Hawkins Singers
"Spanish Harlem" - Ben E. King
"Puerto Rico" - Bobby Caldwell, Marisela Esqueda, Michael Sembello, H. Wilkins, Mongo Santamaría, Charlie Palmieri, The Edwin Hawkins Singers
Passage 2:
2014 St Helens RLFC season
The 2014 St Helens R.F.C. season is the club's 140th in its history; its 119th in rugby league. The Saints will be looking to end a 6-year silverware drought this season by competing for the Super League XIX title as well as the 113th edition of the Challenge Cup. This season marks Australian Nathan Brown's second season as head coach of the club, continuing from his first season in 2013 which ended in a 5th-place finish and an early playoff exit courtesy of an 11–10 defeat at Leeds Rhinos. They began their season by taking on last seasons runner-up Warrington Wolves at the Halliwell Jones Stadium, which ended in an 8–38 win for Saints. This win sent Saints on a win streak that lasted for eight Super League games before being defeated on 18 April 2014 by arch-rivals Wigan Warriors at Langtree Park in the annual Good Friday derby match. Easter was a period to forget for the Saints as they were beaten by Widnes Vikings for their second league defeat in a row, following the Good Friday defeat to bitter rivals Wigan, and then by Leeds Rhinos in Round 5 of the Challenge Cup meaning the Saints will miss out on the trophy for a sixth year. The Saints bounced back however on 1 May with a 48–18 win over the London Broncos. Saints suffered another Magic Weekend to the Warrington Wolves on 18 May with the game ending 41–24 to the Wolves. Results picked up after the Magic Weekend with two straight wins at home against Huddersfield & Salford however the Saints then traveled to Perpignan where they suffered a humiliating 42–0 loss to the Catalans Dragons. Once again, the Saints bounced back with an impressive win over Castleford Tigers at Langtree Park and with another outstanding performance in a pulsating game at the DW Stadium against arch-rivals Wigan Warriors that ended 12–16 in favour of the Saints; the win avenging the Good Friday defeat at Langtree Park. Following this win, Saints suffered a shock 40–10 defeat to Hull Kingston Rovers but bounced back with three straight wins before losing to Hull KR's cross-town rivals, Hull FC, 19–12. However, a 40–16 win over Wakefield Trinity Wildcats & an extremely tight 12–13 win over Leeds Rhinos at Headingley put the Saints in a position where a win against Warrington on 4 September would hand them their first League Leaders' Shield since the 2008 season; with Castleford Tigers being the only other team in contention for the top spot. Despite losing their last two games of the regular season, Saints acquired the League Leaders' Shield following Castleford's failure to beat Catalans Dragons in their last game of the season; meaning that the Saints took their first piece of silverware since 2008. The unlikely success of the 2014 season culminated in a 14–6 win over arch-rivals Wigan Warriors in the 2014 Super League Grand Final at Old Trafford making Saints the Super League champions for the first time since 2006 in an extremely lively, well-fought contest that saw Wigan player Ben Flower sent off for a sucker punch on a defenceless Lance Hohaia in the 2nd minute of the game.

2014 transfers
Players In

Players Out

2014 squad
* Announced on 15 November 2013:

Other staff
Technical staff
Boardroom staff
Pre Season
Saints began their pre-season by taking on Batley Bulldogs in January 2014; taking a 20–0 victory at home. Following this victory, Saints then took on bitter rivals Wigan Warriors in a 'friendly game', again at Langtree Park, for James Roby's testimonial match, sinking to a disappointing 16–28 defeat. They bounced back however for their last pre-season game before the season began with a 6–62 win away at Rochdale Hornets with a St Helens Select XIII team.

Super League XIX Fixtures/Results/Table
Super League XIX – Play-Off Series
Even without key players Luke Walsh, Jon Wilkin & Jonny Lomax for the majority of the second half of the season, Saints managed to battle through the play-offs to reach an unprecedented 10th Grand Final. Even though they also lost Lance Hohaia in the second minute of the game via a disgraceful punch from Ben Flower, Saints overcame the solid defence of Wigans remaining 12 men to claim their 5th Super League title.

2014 Tetley's Challenge Cup Fixtures\Results
Passage 3:
Showmatch
Showmatch was an Argentine television program, broadcast by eltrece. It replaced the comedy show Videomatch in 2004, and from 2006 has produced the dancing contest Bailando por un Sueño ("Dancing for a Dream"), along with similar contests such as Cantando por un Sueño ("Singing for a Dream"), Patinando por un Sueño ("Skating for a Dream"), and El Musical de tus Sueños ("The Musical of your Dreams"). In 2009, it presented "Gran Cuñado" ("Big Brother-in-Law"), a parody of the reality show Big Brother, a segment carried over from Videomatch.
Showmatch is one of Argentina's most-watched programs, and scored as the country's highest-rated TV show in 2010 and 2011.It has played host to a number of celebrity guests from around the world, including former boxer Mike Tyson and footballer Ronaldinho.

History
Showmatch is the new name of the program presented by Marcelo Tinelli, succeeding Videomatch, a sports and comedy show.
On September 2, 2005, Tinelli signed a major contract with Artear, operator of eltrece, thus opting to move to the channel of the solcito (little sun), where he eventually would set the program since 19 September 2005. The negotiations between the two companies had begun in April, at the initiative of Adrian Suar, director of programming of the station. As background, Suar and Tinelli already had preliminary negotiations in an attempt to moving during 1997.
"This is a bet that transcends economics, I feel it is a long-term path that tends to insert the program into a broader platform, which will open more possibilities to Argentine production and international expansion," Tinelli said when closing the contract. Meanwhile, Federico Hoppe and Pablo Prada became the main producers of the program. Since its inception, the program's eight seasons remained to be issued consecutively until the end of the cycle in 2012, where the program stopped being broadcast until 2014, the year in which the program retakes its emissions.
In its first season (2005) and half of Season 2 (2006) the program continued the format of its predecessor Videomatch, with the famous hidden cameras, music, skits with guest artists, humorous sketches, among others, but due to the popularity of the segment Bailando por un Sueño (Dancing for a dream), since 2007, it became an annual competition and the program was entirely based upon this, as well as Cantando por un Sueño (Singing for a dream) and Patinando por un Sueño (Skating for a dream).
In 2009 upon celebrating 20 years, it returned to the original format during the first half of the year, also incorporating the segments Gran Cuñado (Big Brother-in-Law) and Bailando Kids. As of August it began airing the contest El Musical de tus Sueños (The musical of your dreams).
In 2010, a new segment called Baila Argentina was incorporated, in which cities across the country competed through dances with massive people calling, but after some emissions, it stopped airing in Showmatch because of time, and it became part of Sábado Show (a show broadcast by the same channel and hosted by cast member José María Listorti).
In 2011, the show only aired Bailando por un sueño, and in the last 7 seasons (2012, 2014-2019), in addition to this classic contest, there were parodies of celebrities, politicians and people from the show business appearing to interact with the host and the judges.

Production
Performances
An important feature of the show are televised performances made for the start of each season, which dubs of movies or series with a humorous tone are shown, parodies of several films, and large shows of presentation, in which different musical pieces are mixed accompanied by several choreography parts, carried out by the show's team of dancers and artists from different acrobatic disciplines. These stagings are prepared months in advance to be presented to the season premiere.
Within the format Bailando por un Sueño, there were other outstanding artistic productions: the so-called "special rhythms" which usually consist of acrobatic discipline performances, full of visual effects. For example, the productions known as:

"Bailando bajo la lluvia" (Dancing under the rain): where participants must dance under water in a scenery set to simulate a city street. Such show is that each couple occupies this space to develop different storylines with dancing. The climatic effect is achieved using more than 25 sprinklers that spew water steadily toward the track. For this, the studio is fitted with a drain system to support the flow of water. Producers were based on the film Singin' in the Rain for the realization of the "rhythm".
"Cuarto giratorio" (Rotating room): which was incorporated during the seventh season, based on a cubic element of about three meters and a half edge, similar to a room with bare front, where a camera is put only inside the cube. There is where couples must develop the choreography, while this is driven by a hydraulic mechanism which in turn is controlled with a command joystick, by the coach of the couple, who imbues speed to the unidirectional room (right-left). While transmitted by television, the effect of seeing the participants as if they walked through the roof and side is shown. The construction of the cube is done in a steel structure, in which a wooden room is decorated differently, according to the theme of the choreography.
"Bioesfera" (Biosphere) is another example of these assemblies, which is an orbit built with the same material as the pole dance pole, whose pendulous movement depends on a ball bearing that rotates over its own axis. It is hung in the middle of the studio, and there, the participants must perform their stunts while the music plays.
"Aquadance", to this day, is the production with most technical requirement. It is a "rhythm" created in the third season, after the idea of finding and preparing new choreography to capture the attention of the audience. With this, the producers decided to make a big show of aquatic acrobatics, similar to those made in Las Vegas. This discipline was adapted and presented in the program as one of the dance rhythms. In the routine, the program's couples were immersed in acrylic fountains, making figures to the beat of a music track. It was so successful that since then, the show was held every year, having been modified three times. The second time it was done, there were three fountains used with a dancing water system that worked with the progression of the performance, fireworks combined with music and projection effects. Finally, since 2011, the three acrylic fountains mounted in one piece, with two slides and iron supports holding a fourth fountain, located more than 2 meters high, are used. From there the scenery is mounted in a fiberglass pool, covering the dance floor, with two waterfalls and 22 peaks of dancing waters. For all three occasions, the pools were filled with more than 10,000 liters of warm water, and counted with a new recycling system.

Controversy
The show has also been an ongoing source of controversy, and has been accused of sexual discrimination and objectification of women.

Awards
Passage 4:
Sean Tully
Sean Tully is a fictional character from the British soap opera Coronation Street, played by Antony Cotton. He made his first appearance during the episode broadcast on 13 July 2003. Following that appearance, the character returned full-time on 12 April 2004.

Storylines
Sean is introduced as a gay colleague of Martin Platt (Sean Wilson) and Karl Foster (Chris Finch). Some months after his first appearance Sean comes to Coronation Street, desperately looking for somewhere to live. Karl's ex-boyfriend Todd Grimshaw (Bruno Langley) recognises Sean and takes him for a drink at The Rovers. When Todd's mother Eileen Grimshaw (Sue Cleaver) meets Sean she likes him and offers him a place to stay. Her other son, Jason Grimshaw (Ryan Thomas), is not pleased but later warms to the idea. Sean gets a job at Underworld, where he makes friends with Fiz Brown (Jennie McAlpine) and Kelly Crabtree (Tupele Dorgu).
Violet Wilson (Jenny Platt), Sean's close friend, moves to the Street and begins dating Jamie Baldwin (Rupert Hill), who Sean also becomes close to. When Jamie seems to be losing interest in Violet she fears he is secretly gay, she asks Sean to spend time with him to see if he can find out — unaware that Sean has fallen for Jamie himself. However, Sean is shocked to discover that Jamie is actually in love with his stepmother, Frankie Baldwin (Debra Stephenson). Sean supports both Violet and Jamie when Violet ends their relationship.
When Violet suffers an ectopic pregnancy, she is told her chances of conceiving have been reduced. Violet then becomes desperate to have a baby and suggests she and Sean should consider having a child together. Sean agrees and, despite her fertility issues, Violet becomes pregnant via self-administered artificial insemination (after the two try and fail to have sex). Sean accompanies Violet to her 12-week scan, where he becomes attracted to the sonographer, Marcus Dent (Charlie Condou). Violet matchmakes between the two and they begin dating, although they hit a rough patch when Sean tricks Marcus into telling him Violet is expecting a baby boy when she had wanted the gender to be a surprise.
When Violet gets back together with Jamie, she begins to find Sean's presence during the pregnancy stifling, especially after he lends her and Jamie money for a flat deposit and begins coming and going as he pleases. When Violet realises she is in labour at the Rovers' it is Sean, not Jamie, at her side as Jamie is in London. Sean is delighted that he was the first person that his son saw and bonds with Dylan while Violet is in hospital, upsetting both her and Jamie. Sean suggests calling him "Dylan Wilson-Tully" and asks Violet to put his name on the birth certificate. Violet ignores both suggestions, naming her son "Dylan James Wilson" and putting Jamie's name on the birth certificate. Fed up with Sean being a third wheel, Jamie and Violet move to London with Dylan, devastating Sean when Violet throws her mobile away so he can't contact her.
Sean becomes close friends with Tom Kerrigan (Philip McGinley), a business partner of his boss, Carla Connor (Alison King) and begins to develop feelings for him. When Sean tries to kiss Tom, he tells him that he is straight and actually interested in Sean's friend Kelly. Realising things are awkward between Sean and Tom, Marcus questions Sean, who lies and says Tom made a pass at him rather than the other way around. Marcus angrily punches Tom but is furious to then discover Sean was the one in the wrong. With Sean having already been jealous of Marcus's friendships with other gay men, Marcus realises there is no trust left in their relationship and departs for London.
After joining a gym with Jason, Sean becomes attracted to fellow member Leon (Andrew Langtree). When Leon mistakenly thinks Jason is Sean's ex-boyfriend Sean doesn't correct him, and is pleased that Leon seems happy to hear he is single. However, Sean is left disappointed when it turns out that Leon is actually interested in Jason and "doesn't fancy camp men".
Sean decides that he wants to track down Violet and Dylan, as his son would now be two years old. He finds Violet via a social networking site and sets up a page using Liz McDonald's (Beverley Callard) identity. However, the scheme backfires when Liz finds out what Sean has done and she fires him from the Rovers. She later softens towards him and reinstates him, and also has a word with Violet on Sean's behalf. Violet agrees to Sean visiting Dylan in London. However, on one of his visits, Sean is surprised to see Marcus at Violet's house, unaware that they were still in touch. The two realise they still have feelings for one another and reunite. When Violet and Jamie split, Sean begins looking after Dylan more often, with Dylan living with the pair for several weeks after Violet has a car accident. Marcus enjoys being part of Dylan's life and suggest they adopt a child of their own; however, Sean doesn't feel the need to have another child. The issue eventually drives the pair apart, with Sean later horrified to discover Marcus has begun a relationship with his close friend Maria Connor (Samia Ghadie), despite having shown no interest in women before. Sean accuses Marcus of only dating Maria to become a father to her son, Liam and the two fall out.
When Todd returns to Manchester after several years in London, Sean wonders if there is a chance for romance between them. However, Todd is only interested in getting Sean to spend money on him, turning his romantic attention towards Marcus instead. Sean is shocked when he catches Marcus cheating on Maria with Todd and encourages him to be honest with both Maria and himself.
Depressed at being alone, Sean goes on a night out to Manchester's gay village with his colleague Sinead Tinker (Katie McGlynn) and meets Billy Mayhew (Daniel Brocklebank). The two exchange phone numbers and meet again, but Sean is shocked when Emily Bishop (Eileen Derbyshire) introduces Billy as the new local vicar a few days later. Although Sean struggles with Billy's job, the two begin dating, with Sean even trying to become involved with the church. However, when Emily seems distant from Billy and unwilling to involve herself with his new ideas for the church, Sean accuses her of homophobia. Emily is upset and denies this, telling Sean that she simply prefers more traditional church activities. Billy is angry with Sean and makes him apologise, telling Sean that he has to put his parishioners first and that being gay in the church involves some discretion. The pair briefly split, but Emily matchmakes to bring them back together.
Sean later accompanies the Underworld staff to an awards ceremony, but events take a nasty turn when a group of racers cause the minibus driver, Steve McDonald (Simon Gregson), to swerve and crash the vehicle, which is now narrowly balancing on the edge of a quarry. Sean is one of the first people to awaken from unconsciousness and he, Steve and Julie Carp (Katy Cavanagh) escape the wreckage. Steve flees as he comes to terms with the events, while Julie re-enters the vehicle to retrieve the trapped passengers. Sean looks after the staff once they are out, but he soon suffers a panic attack as the reality of the minibus crash dawns on him. Once everybody is out, Sean is the first person to realise that Carla is still trapped in the front seat of the minibus. Tracy Barlow (Kate Ford) risks her life to save Carla and nearly falls to her own death when the wreckage begins to slide off the edge of the quarry, but she leaps out just in time. At the hospital, Sean is met by Billy, who reveals how proud he is of him.

Characterisation
Antony Cotton said that playing Sean is easy because he just has to act like himself. Speaking to The People, Cotton said that Sean looks and he sounds like him. Cotton later admitted that not all of the reviews about him are positive. Some of the gay press have accused Cotton of making Sean a stereotype. Of this he said, "You've got people like Blanche Hunt, Emily Bishop and Norris Cole and there were the classic characters like Bet Lynch and Annie Walker. They're all more camp than Sean — I'm Grant Mitchell compared to them."

Development
In an interview with Digital Spy, Cotton was asked why Sean has always been so unlucky in love. He answered; "When I first came into the show, a lot of the old-school writers that are no longer here had never written a gay character. At that time, Raquel had just gone so they basically wrote Sean as Raquel. Hilda and Raquel are my favourite ever Corrie characters and one of the reasons that I've always loved Raquel is that she was unlucky in love. Even when she was in the gutter battered and bruised, she was always looking up at the stars thinking that the next one was around the corner. I thought that was an interesting way to play Sean, so he's always unlucky in love because Raquel was, is the short answer! That's just the way it worked out — but I like playing that."In January 2011, it was confirmed that Charlie Condou who played Sean's ex-boyfriend Marcus Dent between 2007 and 2008 would return to the serial. A Coronation Street spokesperson teased the upcoming reunion saying; "There are eventful times ahead for Sean as his old flame Marcus Dent returns to the cobbles. Marcus arrives back in Weatherfield and the relationship between him and Sean is rekindled."In September 2014, it was revealed that Sean would begin a relationship with a vicar named Billy portrayed by Daniel Brocklebank. Producer Stuart Blackburn said: "It's about time Sean had a romance, he's been unlucky in love for a long time. Billy is a great guy who is sincere about his feelings for Sean, but his first love is and always will be God and the Church. We will be exploring this very modern relationship in the coming months and are delighted to have Daniel on board to play Billy." Cotton added: "I am thrilled that Sean is to find love again especially with this unique and exciting storyline. I'm sure it'll have its ups and downs, but that's what makes Coronation Street great. Hopefully it will be tender, funny and honest. Heaven!" In January 2015, Cotton revealed in an interview that he was surprised by the positive response to Sean's relationship with Billy storyline.

Reception
Antony Cotton has won a number of awards since the character's first appearance, including a prestigious National Television Award. In 2006 he won an award for Funniest Character at the Inside Soap Awards. along with Best Actor at the British Soap Awards in 2007.
Passage 5:
Mira quién baila
Mira quién baila may refer to:

Mira quién baila (Spanish TV series)
Mira quién baila (American TV series), a 2010 American game show
Mira quién baila (season 1)
Mira quién baila (season 2)
Mira quién baila (season 3)
Mira quién baila (season 4)
Mira quién baila (season 5)
Passage 6:
Antony Cotton
Antony Cotton  (born Antony Dunn; 5 August 1975) is an English actor and comedian, known for portraying the role of Sean Tully in Coronation Street, as well as portraying Alexander Perry in the original Queer as Folk series. In 2007, Cotton hosted his own talk show titled That Antony Cotton Show, which was cancelled after one series. In March 2013, he won Let's Dance for Comic Relief.

Early and personal life
Cotton was born Antony Dunn in Bury, Greater Manchester, the son of actress Enid Dunn. He attended Woodhey High School at Holcombe Brook, Ramsbottom, and the Oldham Theatre Workshop. He has an elder brother, Andrew. Cotton supports the Terrence Higgins Trust and is a patron of the LGF The Albert Kennedy Trust and the 'Queer Up North' festival.
In August 2009, it was reported in Digital Spy that Cotton is "openly gay". In March 2010, it was reported that Cotton had exchanged rings with his partner, Peter Eccleston. In January 2012, footballer Michael Ball was fined by the Football Association for a homophobic rant on Twitter about Cotton.

Career
Cotton currently plays barman and factory worker Sean Tully on Coronation Street, a role which he has continuously played since 2003. His Mother, Enid Dunn, also played several parts in Coronation Street between 2002 and 2014. Cotton played "Alexander" in the original UK version of Queer as Folk. He has also appeared in episodes of Absolutely Fabulous as "Damon". In 2007, Cotton won the second series of ITV's Soapstar Superstar. He donated his winning money, £200,000, to the Elton John Aids Foundation.In July 2007, it was announced that Cotton would be fronting his own teatime chat show on ITV. The show, That Antony Cotton Show, was filmed with a live studio audience at Granada Television studios in Manchester, and combined celebrity chat with topical humour. It was first broadcast on 13 August 2007. Following the end of the first series, ITV announced that the show was axed and would not return for a second series. He appeared on Family Fortunes on 20 September 2008 winning £10,000 for his chosen charity. In December 2008, he appeared with co-star Suranne Jones on Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?.He also took part in the eleventh series of I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here! which began airing on 13 November 2011. He left on 2 December 2011, after 21 days in the jungle, placing fourth. Cotton also starred in an episode of Mad Mad World on ITV1 in Spring 2012. He won first place in a series of Let's Dance for Comic Relief in March 2013. Cotton was a contestant for the 2018 revamp of Dancing on Ice.
Cotton made his film debut opposite Daniel Craig and Derek Jacobi in the 1998 film Love Is the Devil: Study for a Portrait of Francis Bacon. He also appeared in the 1998 film, The Wisdom of Crocodiles. Cotton has appeared in several shows at the Oldham Coliseum, including The Fifteen Streets and The Hobbit at Manchester's Palace Theatre and Opera House. He appeared in Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs at the Middlesbrough Theatre.

Honours, awards and recognition
In 2005, Cotton won the Most Popular Newcomer category at the National Television Awards for his role in Coronation Street. Cotton won the 2005 Inside Soap Awards for Best Newcomer and Funniest Performance. In 2006, he won the award for Funniest Performance. At the 2007 British Soap Awards, Cotton was awarded the Best Actor award, which was voted for by the public. Also in 2007 he won Best Actor at the Inside Soap Awards.Cotton was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2022 Birthday Honours for services to the British Army, personnel and veterans.

Filmography
FilmTelevision

See also
List of Dancing on Ice contestants
List of I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here! (British TV series) contestants
Passage 7:
Motofuji Akiko
Akiko Motofuji (1928–2003) was born in Tokyo. From her childhood she studied ballet and modern dance. In 1947, Nobutoshi Tsuda dancing principal, and she established Asbestos Studio in 1950. In 1955, in the International Dancing Contest held in Vienna, she won 4th prize in the individual performance section. She met Tatsumi Hijikata in 1956, and they started to perform on stage together, searching for a new way of expression using ballet and Neue Tanz techniques. This was the basis of Butoh, an original expression which gazes at body and soul severely. Later they got married. She went back to the stage in 1992, performing the piece "Together with Tatsumi Hijikata", and after that made great works, one after another. Her original world showed such colorful features as charm, overflowing humor, and severely shaved form, but always with the theme "repeated life and death" at the bottom. At big halls, in small spaces, outdoors, and so on, her inspiration spread out in three dimensions and caught and kept the audience interested. She also tackled collaboration with artists of other genres: direction with engravers, improvisation with musicians, joint production with Magdalena Abakanowicz, etc., and continued searching for the possibility of new expression. She died from hemopericardium on October 19, 2003.

Quotes
One of her famous quotes is:

"When viewing life, the blossoming of youth is beautiful, certainly. But in contrast, when something is withering, there's a beauty in that as well... is there not beauty within ugliness?"
Passage 8:
Nach Baliye
Nach Baliye (transl. Dance partner) is an Indian Hindi-language celebrity dance reality television series that airs on Star Plus. It is loosely based on Dancing With The Stars.

Production
Concept
The show is a competition wherein 10 television celebrity couples compete against each other. Contestants dance to a different tune, different theme and different styles every week and scores are given by the judges. Each week one couple is eliminated based on public voting and their scores.
In Season 9, the contestant ratings were changed to be on a scale from 1 to 100.

Reception
In 2012, when season 5 premiered the show did very well throughout the season. The grand premiere has gained 4.1 TRP.

Series
Season 1
Nach Baliye 1 is the first season of the dance reality show, Nach Baliye.
It started on 17 October 2005 and ended on 19 December 2005 with Sachin Pilgaonkar and Supriya Pilgaonkar as the winners. The judges were Saroj Khan, Malaika Arora Khan and Farhan Akhtar with Sangeeta Ghosh and Shabbir Ahluwalia serving as the hosts. The series was produced by SOL Productions.

Contestants
Supriya Pilgaonkar and Sachin Pilgaonkar, winners
Poonam Narula and Manish Goel, runners-up
Rajeshwari Sachdev and Varun Badola, 3rd position
Delnaaz Irani and Rajeev Paul, 4th position
Archana Puran Singh and Parmeet Sethi, 5th position
Shilpa Saklani and Apurva Agnihotri, 6th position
Neeru Bajwa and Amit Sadh, 7th position
Sai Deodhar and Shakti Anand, 8th position
Manini Mishra and Mihir Mishra, 9th position
Manasi Joshi Roy and Rohit Roy, 10th position

Season 2
Nach Baliye 2 is the second season of the dance reality show, Nach Baliye.
It started on 25 September 2006 and ended on 18 December 2006 with Hussain Kuwajerwala and Tina Kuwajerwala as the winners. Saroj Khan, Malaika Arora Khan and Kunal Kohli were the judges.  Sangeeta Ghosh and Shabbir Ahluwalia hosted the season. SOL Productions produced the second season as well.

Contestants
Hussain Kuwajerwala and Tina Kuwajerwala, winners
Yash Tonk and Gauri Tonk, runners-up
Tannaz Irani and Bakhtiyaar Irani, 3rd position
Gauri Pradhan and Hiten Tejwani, 4th position
Shweta Kawatra and Manav Gohil, 5th position
Shweta Tiwari and Raja Choudhary, 6th position
Gurdeep Kohli and Arjun Punj, 7th position
Keerti Gaekwad Kelkar and Sharad Kelkar, 8th position
Narayani Shastri and Gaurav Chopra, 9th position
Ketki Dave and Rasik Dave, 10th position

Season 3
Nach Baliye 3 is the third season of the dance reality show, Nach Baliye.
It started on 21 September 2007 and ended on 22 December 2007 with Sanjeeda Sheikh and Aamir Ali as the winners. The judges were Vaibhavi Merchant, Isha Koppikar and David Dhawan. The winners of the second season, Hussain Kuwajerwala and Tina Kuwajerwala, hosted the show. It was produced by Diamond Pictures and moved from Star One to Star Plus. It was created by Anil Jha who was also the Showrunner for Season 3,4, and later 9.

Contestants
Sanjeeda Sheikh and Aamir Ali, winners
Rakhi Sawant and Abhishek Avasthi, runners-up
Kashmera Shah and Krushna Abhishek, 3rd position
Karan Patel and Amita Chandekar, 4th position
Indraneil Sengupta and Barkha Sengupta, 5th position
Sweta Keswani and Alexx O'Nell, 6th position
Pooja Bedi and Hanif Hilal, 7th position
Karan Grover and Kavita Kaushik, 8th position
Vikas Sethi and Amita Sethi, 9th position
Shakti Kapoor and Shivangi Kapoor, 10th position; quit
Kiran Janjani and Ritu Janjani, 11th position

Season 4
Nach Baliye 4 is the fourth season of the dance reality show, Nach Baliye.
It started on 17 October 2008 and ended on 1 February 2009 with Shalin Bhanot and Dalljiet Kaur as the winners.Sanjeeda Sheikh and Aamir Ali were the initial hosts but Sara Khan and Ali Merchant hosted in Week 5 and Hiten Tejwani and Gauri Pradhan Tejwani hosted in Week 8.
Farah Khan, Karisma Kapoor, and Arjun Rampal were the judges.

Contestants
Shalin Bhanot and Dalljiet Kaur, winners
Naman Shaw and Megha Gupta, runners-up
Kapil Nirmal and Anjali Abrol, semi-finalists
Yash Tonk and Gauri Tonk, wildcards; semi-finalists
Vineet Raina and Tanushree Kaushal, eliminated
Reshmi Ghosh and Amit Gupta, eliminated
Karanvir Bohra and Teejay Sidhu, quit
Mohit Malik and Addite Shirwaikar , eliminated
Sudeep Sahir and Anantika Sahir, eliminated
Mazher Sayed and Mouli Ganguly, eliminated
Jaspal Bhatti and Savita Bhatti, eliminated
Jatin Shah and Priya Bathija, eliminated
Abhijeet Sawant and Shilpa Sawant, eliminated
Chetan Hansraj and Lavinia Pereira, wildcards; eliminated

Season 5
Nach Baliye 5 is the fifth season of the dance reality show -  Nach Baliye.
It started on 29 December 2012 and ended on 23 March 2013 with Mahhi Vij and Jay Bhanushali as the winners.
Karan Wahi and Gautam Rode hosted the season. The judges were Shilpa Shetty, Sajid Khan and Terrence Lewis.

Contestants
Jay Bhanushali and Mahi Vij, winners
Sargun Mehta and Ravi Dubey, first runners-up
Neelu Vaghela and Arvind Kumar, second runners-up
Suhasi Dhami and Jaisheel Dhami, third runners-up
Karan Mehra and Nisha Rawal, eliminated on 16 March 2013
Charlie Chauhan and Kunwar Amarjeet Singh, eliminated on 9 March 2013
Shefali Jariwala and Parag Tyagi, eliminated on 2 March 2013
Dimpy Mahajan and Rahul Mahajan, eliminated on 23 February 2013
Elena Boeva and Kushal Tandon, eliminated on 3 February 2013
Smita Bansal and Ankush Mohla, eliminated on 27 January 2013
Deepshikha Nagpal and Keshav Arora, eliminated on 13 January 2013

Guests
Drashti Dhami

Shriman V/s Shrimati
Nach Baliye Shriman V/s Shrimati is an extension of the Nach Baliye series, and ran in April 2013. In Shriman V/s Shrimati, the celebrity couples did not dance together but instead competed against each other. The series ended in a tie.Gurmeet Choudhary was declared the Best Performer of the series.

Season 6
Nach Baliye 6 is the sixth season of the dance reality show, Nach Baliye.
It premiered on 9 November 2013 on Star Plus. Shilpa Shetty, Sajid Khan and Terrence Lewis were the judges and Gautam Rode and Karan Wahi hosted the season.
Rithvik Dhanjani and Asha Negi were declared as the winners of Nach Baliye Season 6 on 1 February 2014. Gurmeet Choudhary and Debina Bonnerjee were declared the runners-up.Sara Khan did a cameo dance performance in the wild card special episode along with Paras Chhabra.
Writing for Rediff.com, Paloma Sharma gave the show 2.5 stars out of 5 in its first week, stating "perhaps the hosts and the judges could keep their clothes on and refrain from excessive flirting since Nach Baliye does happen to be a 'family show'."

Contestants
Rithvik Dhanjani and Asha Negi, winners on 1 February 2014
Gurmeet Chaudhary and Debina Bonnerjee, first runners-up on 1 February 2014
Ripudaman Handa and Shivangi Verma, second runners-up on 1 February 2014
Vinod Thakur and Raksha Thakur, third runners-up on 1 February 2014
Kiku Sharda and Priyanka Sharda (5th position), eliminated on 25 January 2014
Raqesh Bapat  and Ridhi Dogra (6th position), eliminated
Kanika Maheshwari and Ankur Ghai (7th position), quit on 11 January 2014
Bruna Abdullah and Omar Herror (8th position), eliminated on 8 December 2013; re-entered as wild card entrants, eliminated on 4 January 2014
Raju Srivastav and Shikha Raju (9th position), eliminated on 15 December 2013
Amrapali Gupta and Yash Sinha (10th position), eliminated on 1 December 2013
Sanjeev Seth and Lata Sabharwal (11th position), eliminated on 24 November 2013

Guests
Hina Khan
Barun Sobti
Deepika Singh
Rucha Hasabnis
Vishal Singh
Ishita Dutta
Mouni Roy
Mahek Chahal
Dharmesh Yelande
Sayantani Ghosh
Rashami Desai

Scoring chart
In this season, the scores per judge are out of 10 with the highest possible score of 30.
Red number indicates the lowest score.
Green number indicates the highest score.
  indicates the couple eliminated that week.
  indicates the returning couple that finished in the bottom three.
  indicates the returning couple that finished in the bottom two.
  indicates the winning couple.
  indicates the runner-up couple.
  indicates the third-place couple.

Season 7
Nach Baliye 7 is the seventh season of the dance reality show, Nach Baliye.
It premiered on 26 April 2015 on Star Plus. The series was produced by Ekta Kapoor and Shobha Kapoor under their banner Balaji Telefilms. The series aired from Monday to Saturday nights and on Sunday evenings. The season ended on 19 July 2015.
It was hosted by Rithvik Dhanjani and Karan Patel. Marzi Pestonji, Preity Zinta  and Chetan Bhagat were the judges.Kunwar Amar, Karanvir Bohra, Mukti Mohan, Sargun Mehta and Salman Yusuf Khan also appeared in a special episode.

Contestants
Scoring chart
In this season, the scores per judge are out of 10 with the highest possible score of 30.
Red number indicates the lowest score.
Green number indicates the highest score.
  Eliminated
  Bottom three
  Bottom two
  Winning couple
  Runner-up couple
  Second runner-up couple

Season 8
Nach Baliye 8 is the eighth season of the dance reality show, Nach Baliye.
It premiered on 2 April 2017 on Star Plus. The show was produced by BBC Worldwide. Sonakshi Sinha, Terence Lewis and Mohit Suri were the judges. Karan Tacker and Upasana Singh were the hosts for the show. Divyanka Tripathi Dahiya and Vivek Dahiya were declared as the winners.

Contestants
Guests
Salman Khan and Sohail Khan
Ranbir Kapoor
Arjun Kapoor and Shraddha Kapoor
Arjun Kapoor and Anil Kapoor
Sridevi
Hrithik Roshan
Diljit Dosanjh
Parineeti Chopra
Remo D'souza
Karan Patel

Scoring chart
Red number Lowest score
Green number Highest score
  Eliminated
  Bottom two
  Winning couple
  Runner-up couple
  Second runner-upThe scores per judge were out of 10 with the highest possible score of 30.
The elimination was based on public votes plus the score given by judges in the previous week.

Notes
Season 9
Nach Baliye 9 is the ninth season of the dance reality show, Nach Baliye.
It premiered on 19 July 2019. Produced by Salman Khan, it was judged by Raveena Tandon & Ahmed Khan and hosted by Manish Paul & Waluscha De Sousa.
Vighnesh Pande and his puppet character 'Anna' appeared as a comic relief for episodes featuring South Indian Megastar Prabhas and another with the Bollywood celebrity Sanjay Dutt.
The season was won by Prince Narula and Yuvika Chaudhary on 3 November 2019.

Contestants
Scoring chart
Current Couple
  Former CoupleRed number Lowest score
Green number Highest score
  Eliminated
  Bottom Two
  Winners
  Runner-ups
  Second runner-ups
  Hi5
  UnwellThe scores per judge were out of 100. Then the average score is calculated from the scores of both judges.
The elimination was based on public votes and the score given by judges.
In Week 2, Rohit and Anita did not perform as Rohit was down with Jaundice so the doctor had advised rest to him. Ahmed and Raveena saved them and they advanced to the next week without nomination.
In Week 7, Faisal & Muskaan had to quit the show as Faisal got injured.
In Week 9, Pooja & Sandeep had to quit the show as Pooja got injured.
In Week 11, The couples had to perform solo. Ridhima, Prince, Anuj, Shraddha and Vishal got a High 5, however both the partners had to score 50/50 to receive a High 5.
In week 12, every couple has to perform twice. In the first round they are getting marks out of 90. And the second round is battle between two couple. Whoever wins will get 10 marks & other get zero.
In Quarter Finale (Week 13) also, the couples had to perform twice. In first round, they performed with different  dance groups and got marks out of 100. The couples who received a High 5 were RoNita, NiShaan and ShAlam. In second round, they performed their usual performances (Theme-Retro )and got marks out of 100.The average of both the rounds was taken as their final score.
In Semi Finale (Week 14) also, the couples had to perform twice.
Passage 9:
Christian Clarke
Christian Clarke is a fictional character from the BBC soap opera EastEnders, portrayed by John Partridge. He first appeared in the show's 3,509th episode, originally broadcast in the United Kingdom on 17 January 2008, and was introduced as the brother of established character Jane Beale (Laurie Brett). He was introduced as a new homosexual character for the show, following the popularity of Coronation Street's Sean Tully (Antony Cotton). Christian and Partridge's casting were announced on 20 November 2007.Christian's storylines have mostly revolved around his relationship with Syed Masood (Marc Elliott), but his other storylines have included a friendship with Roxy Mitchell (Rita Simons) and being involved in the coming out storylines of  Ben Mitchell (Joshua Pascoe). On 17 September 2012, it was announced that Partridge would be leaving his role, following Elliott's decision to leave the show. They left together in the 4,532nd episode, originally broadcast on 15 November 2012.Partridge returned to the show for two episodes in May 2014 which saw Christian attend the funeral of Lucy Beale (Hetti Bywater). Christian appeared in two episodes on 19 and 20 May 2014.  In January 2015, it was confirmed that Partridge would be returning for the show's 30th anniversary celebrations in February 2015. Partridge appeared in four episodes between 17 and 20 February 2015, including a fully live episode, which saw Christian attend Jane's wedding to Ian Beale (Adam Woodyatt). On 8 April 2016, it was reported that Partridge would reprise the role again in "early summer" 2016. Christian returned on 26 May 2016 and departed again on 30 May.

Storylines
2008–2012
Christian is first mentioned when his older sister Jane Beale (Laurie Brett) receives an invitation to his civil ceremony with partner Ashley Jennings (Tony Boncza). Jane throws the invitation away but it is later found by Jane's husband Ian (Adam Woodyatt). Jane refuses to tell Ian why she does not want to go to the ceremony but Ian wants to meet Christian, and invites him and Ashley to dinner at Fargo's Restaurant. Christian reveals that he was once in love with Jane's first husband David Collins (Dan Milne). Ashley storms out of the restaurant and the couple end their relationship. Christian is tricked by Ian's daughter Lucy (Melissa Suffield) into letting her use his flat so she can spend some "quality time" with her boyfriend, Olly Greenwood (Bart Edwards). Christian walks in on them about to have sex and stops them. Ian punches Christian over what happened with Lucy and Olly, but when he catches Lucy attempting to leave with Olly, he insists she move in with Christian again.
Christian is surprised to see his mother Linda (Lynda Baron) after having lost contact with her for nearly 20 years. At first, Christian dislikes her because she still disapproves of his sexuality, but when Ian's son Peter (Thomas Law) tells him how he lost his mother Cindy (Michelle Collins), Christian makes amends with her. Roxy unexpectedly goes into premature labour, and Christian offers to help raise the baby, Amy, as her marriage to Sean Slater (Robert Kazinsky) has ended. However, Roxy leaves Christian heartbroken when she gets back with Sean. She later tells Christian that he is to be Amy's godfather. Roxy gives her daughter the middle name Christina, after Christian. Christian's colleague at Masala Queen, Syed Masood (Marc Elliott), argues with him over his sexuality, saying that homosexuality goes against his God's will, but then unexpectedly kisses and has sex with Christian. Syed tries to avoid Christian, although Christian wants to begin a relationship with him. Syed refuses him although they continue with their affair, Syed eventually denies that he is gay and proposes to his girlfriend Amira Shah (Preeya Kalidas). On the day of Syed and Amira's engagement party, Christian takes a man called Luke back to his flat, but Luke beats Christian up after revealing he is not gay and hates gay men cottaging in public places. Following this, Christian becomes agoraphobic, but Syed helps Christian return to a normal life. Christian's friend James Mackie (Paul Keating) turns up, and Syed sees them together and is jealous. After James admits that he has feelings for Christian, Syed tries to put him off. Christian finds out and tells Syed that he will be with him but he must break up with Amira, but Syed cannot go through with it, so Christian starts a relationship with James. However, one day Christian takes Syed down an alleyway and kisses him, not realising they have been seen. Christian then breaks off his romance with James and restarts his secret affair with Syed. Christian and Syed are photographed looking cosy in an alleyway. Syed is blackmailed and Christian discovers it is Lucy. Syed soon breaks off the affair, and Christian tells Syed he cannot help arrange his wedding any more.
On the wedding day, Syed admits to Christian that he is gay but cannot come out because he is not just gay, but a son, a brother and a Muslim. When he runs away, distressed, Syed's mother Zainab (Nina Wadia) sees and confronts Christian who tells her everything, but she does not believe him and attacks him verbally and physically. She then goes to the wedding and confronts Syed who eventually confesses, and she tells him to marry Amira. When Syed and Amira return from their honeymoon, Christian introduces a man called Leyton (Daniel Crowder) as his boyfriend to make Syed jealous, which works as Syed is clearly upset. However, after Syed and Amira consummate their marriage, Syed tells Christian that they are planning a baby, and says he and Christian can both move on as Christian has Leyton and Syed has Amira. However, Christian tells Syed he has broken up with Leyton and was only with him to make Syed jealous. At Syed's and Amira's flat, Christian and Syed argue, but are then seen kissing on floor of the flat by Syed's father, Masood (Nitin Ganatra). This leads to the exposure of their affair, and Syed comes out to his family and friends, and Amira leaves Walford. However Syed rejects Christian again. Amira's father Qadim (Ramon Tikaram) and his associates track down Christian, wanting to know where Syed is. Christian says he does not know, so they beat him and leave him outside on the pavement. When Syed returns, he apologises to Christian but Christian calls him a coward, saying he never wants to see him again. Syed has therapy to attempt to cure his same-sex attraction, and he tells Christian he no longer feels anything for him. However, Syed soon admits to Christian that his therapy has not worked and he wants to admit his true feelings. Christian pushes him away, but the next day he accepts Syed when he says he chooses Christian and turns his back on his family. The pair then move in with each other. On New Year's Eve, Christian attends a party at The Queen Victoria pub, and shares a kiss with a man. Christian tells Syed, and Syed is angry, but later forgives him. They decide they would like a child and a drunken Roxy offers to be the surrogate mother. However, despite their attempt, she does not become pregnant. Syed and Christian decide to adopt, and Christian later proposes to Syed, and Syed agrees. They continue with their plans to adopt and Christian finds a new flat for them. However, Syed almost changes his mind and the couple split up until Syed realises that he does want children.
Christian starts working at the local boxing club, and whilst there, 15-year-old Ben Mitchell (Joshua Pascoe) confides to him that he is gay. Christian gives advice to the teenager, but Ben develops a crush on Christian, which he discourages. Amira returns to Walford with hers and Syed's baby, Yasmin. She promptly tells Syed that she wants him to be a part of their baby's life but bans Christian from seeing her. Syed starts to secretly see Amira and Yasmin, and Ben reports this to Christian. Christian confronts Syed and declares that Syed has to choose between him and the baby. However, he relents and gives Syed his blessing to see his child. However, Yusef Khan (Ace Bhatti) suggests to Christian that Yasmin may not be Syed's child, casting doubt in Christian's mind. Christian then asks Yusef to perform a secret paternity test on Yasmin. The results of the test state that Syed is not the father of Yasmin, and Christian reveals this to Syed and Amira. Syed is devastated, but Amira continues to claim that he is the father. Syed doubts Christian, believing that he may have falsified the test. However, it emerges that it was Yusef who falsified the paternity test. Christian feels hurt that Syed suspected him of lying, but he reluctantly agrees to let Amira and Yasmin stay with him and Syed as they have nowhere else to go. Christian is annoyed to discover that Syed is helping Amira get a home in Walford. When Christian and Ben watch a film together, they talk about Christian and Syed's relationship and Ben misreads the signals, and tries to kiss Christian. Christian is horrified and Ben runs out of the flat, seen by Zainab and Yusef. Ben later lies to Yusef that Christian touched him inappropriately, and Yusef takes Ben to tell his father, Phil Mitchell (Steve McFadden). Phil confronts Christian in the pub, and Christian punches Phil when he calls him a "nonce". Phil leaves but later turns up at Christian's flat, smashing it up and hitting Christian with a baseball bat. Ben is forced to tell the truth so Phil leaves. However, Christian is upset with Syed for not trusting him, and when Amira tells Christian that he will be judged by the community, Christian decides to break up with Syed and leave Walford. Christian returns to Albert Square to spend Christmas with Jane. When he sees Syed and Amira, he mocks them for behaving like a couple. Syed is determined to win Christian back and asks Amira for a divorce. Christian and Syed reunite, but Amira vows to stay around. Amira later teases Christian that he will never be invited to Masood family occasions, and he tells her that her business with Syed is a smokescreen and she really wants him back.  However, Amira soon tires of Walford without a husband, and leaves her daughter Yasmin in the care of Syed and Christian.
During a Masood family crisis, Christian is asked to look after Zainab on her own, and they talk. She tells him about how she lied to Yusef so that he would be killed (Zainab told him that his daughter Afia (Meryl Fernandes) was trapped in a burning building). She wonders who will forgive her, and Christian tells her that he does. He explains that they never chose to be the people they are, and she asks if he loves Syed. He says that he does and she realises that when he said it before, she never really listened. They make amends and Zainab invites Christian to a family dinner and to the mosque. When Christian decides to enter Yasmin into a "beautiful baby" competition, Syed is angry, and refers to Yasmin as his daughter, not his and Christian's, leading to an argument between them. Before their wedding, Syed reveals to Christian that he kissed Danny Pennant (Gary Lucy), but Christian says it was just a kiss and they marry. However, Syed is in debt to Danny, who texts him. Christian sees the texts and meets Danny, who reveals that he had sex with Syed. Christian punches Danny and Syed then finds Christian badly beaten. Christian lies that he was the victim of a homophobic attack, and refuses to give Syed any details. Syed calls the police to report the assault. However, Christian is arrested for the assault on Danny. Danny tells Syed he will only retract his police statement if Syed returns £500 he owes. However, Masood threatens to tell the police about Danny's dodgy investments, so Danny withdraws the allegations. Christian asks Syed for his reassurance of their love and marriage or he will end their relationship. Syed cannot give it, so Christian moves out. Amira returns, wanting to take Yasmin to live with her and her new fiancé in Birmingham. Syed allows Amira to take her, not telling Christian, who is angry when he finds out. He plans to move to America to live with Jane. Syed discovers this through Masood, and brands Christian a hypocrite. Zainab and Lucy lock the pair in the Masoods' restaurant where they reunite. Refusing to leave without Syed, Christian has Jane book them both tickets and they leave together to go to America, planning to live closer to Amira and Yasmin once they return to the UK.

2014–2016
In May 2014, Ian visits Christian at his home in Birmingham following Lucy's death, where Jane is also staying. Christian comforts Ian and expresses his condolences. Ian asks after his son Bobby (Rory Stroud/Eliot Carrington), who is also staying with them and meets Yasmin, who Christian is babysitting whilst Syed is at work. Christian promises to attend the funeral and after Ian has left, Jane returns home and tells Christian that she won't be attending the funeral. Christian is disappointed by her behaviour. The following day, Christian returns to Walford with Bobby to attend the funeral, travelling in the family car to the church with Ian, Peter and Bobby. Following the service, Christian catches up with Roxy and asks after Amy. He then returns to Birmingham with Jane and Bobby. In February 2015, Christian returns for Jane's wedding. He calls Jane pretending that he has to work, but he arrives in the salon where Jane is getting ready moments later to surprise her.
In May 2016, Christian returns after Jane is attacked by Bobby with a hockey stick. While Jane is comatose, Ian tells Christian that Bobby killed Lucy and Jane covered it up.  The next day, Linda reveals that Christian has gone back to Birmingham.

Creation
In November 2007, it was announced that a new gay character was to join the cast of EastEnders, as the show's bosses had seen how popular Antony Cotton was in the role of Sean Tully in Coronation Street. However, Partridge's character is not as camp as Cotton's, and is described as "very suave and a real charmer" and a "savvy, bright character [who is] very fun." Partridge commented that it would be "stupid" to copy Cotton's character, adding that "it's about time EastEnders had a gay character in the show." He later told Attitude that Cotton's character in Coronation Street is the reason Christian is in EastEnders due to his popularity, and that Christian was created to be the opposite of Sean. Partridge said of his character, "I think he's going to upset the apple cart at the Beales'" and "Christian, like me, is an openly proud gay man and he is certainly going to ruffle a few feathers when he arrives."
Christian 'kiss-my-guns' Clarke has the biceps of a god, and an innate inability to live a quiet life. It’s no surprise that he's Roxy Mitchell’s best mate, then. His put-downs are legendary, but Christian's brash exterior is very much that. The Christian that his friends and family know is sensitive, generous and fiercely loyal. If you're feeling down, he'll take you out for the best night of your life and provide a shoulder to cry on in the taxi home.
Talking about his casting in the role of Christian, Partridge has disclosed: "I'm slightly terrified when I come into work every day. It's an enormous machine. Plus, the actors I work with the most, Adam Woodyatt (Ian) and Laurie Brett (Jane), are such consummate professionals that I don't want to weaken the Beale family or bring anyone down.  I want to stand up there with them and be seen as a good team player."

Development
Partridge has commented that one aspect of his character he most enjoys is "that he weaves in and out of lots of characters' stories, so I have interaction with loads of different people.  Take his friendship with Roxy, for example — I absolutely love it, and working with Rita Simons, who plays her, is such a pleasure.  We're very natural in that set-up." In turn, Simons has commented that her own character, Roxy, would be "really lost without (Christian). He's her rock". Partridge has also denied that Christian is a stereotypical gay man, saying "Christian wears slightly brighter colours than I would normally wear but you know it is a BBC show and we have to show that I am gay you know? I don't think it's stereotypical at all because there are what I call seven shades of gay and that goes from real straight acting to camp and I like to think that Christian has all of those elements as I do as a gay man."In June 2009, Christian begins an affair with Muslim character Syed Masood, played by Marc Elliott. The storyline is said to be controversial, as homosexuality is strictly forbidden according to mainstream interpretations of Islam. However, the show's executive producer Diederick Santer explained that the storyline will not be a moral tale, but one of human interest, adding: "[Syed] struggles with his sexuality when he finds himself drawn to Christian and he believes this goes against his faith. This is not a story about Syed and Christian's physical relationship — we don't see anything beyond one kiss." Santer also said that EastEnders always tries to "reflect modern life in multicultural Britain and [tell] social issue stories relevant to [its] diverse audience." Partridge commented on the storyline, saying: "I'm thrilled this storyline is being done. People fall in love in impossible circumstances all the time. Why are Christian and Syed any different?"Partridge told entertainment website Digital Spy that lessons were learnt after a kiss between Christian and his then-boyfriend Lee Thompson in 2008 prompted 145 complaints from viewers, saying: "Even after [the gay kiss] story, Diederick [Santer, executive producer], Dominic Treadwell-Collins, series story producer] and the BBC were brave enough to push forward with this current storyline. Everybody learned lessons from that [gay kiss] as to how to tell this story... so as not to offend people, not to be gratuitous and not to let something like a kiss be something that overshadows the story we're trying to tell. I'm immensely proud of that and immensely proud of this storyline. I'm honoured that they've allowed me to be a face for it."In December 2009, Santer was asked what his favourite storyline of the year had been. He replied "I'm really pleased with the Christian/Syed storyline. It's bold and we thought long and hard before we did it to make sure we got it right and I'm really proud with what we've done. Marc [Elliott] and John [Partridge] have absolutely stepped up to the plate and like all good EastEnders stories, we're not even half done with it yet. There's miles to go."In 2010, Christian will get a beating once his and Syed's secret is revealed. A source explained: "It seems that Christian is going to take the brunt of Syed's problems. Syed and Amira's wedding achieved one of the highest ratings of the year, so we're expecting viewers to again be gripped when this storyline reaches its dramatic climax. "There will be lots of twists and turns along the way. And sadly for poor Christian, he'll be the one who ends up taking a battering. There will also be lots of complaints." Tahir Shah from the Muslim Public Affairs Committee criticised the storyline as soon as it was reported for portraying Muslims in a negative light."EastEnders is known for its gritty and realistic storylines but we cannot condone such violence from a Muslim character," he explained. However, gay rights campaigner Peter Tatchell described the plot as "groundbreaking", adding: "No storyline in any drama will ever reflect the totality of the many diverse gay lifestyles and experiences. Full credit to the BBC for having a gay Muslim character. The lives of gay Muslims are very rarely in the media."

Departure (2012)
On 7 September 2012, it was announced that Syed and Christian would be departing in November 2012 in an explosive storyline that bosses did not reveal at the time. Executive producer, Lorraine Newman said: "Marc and John have been a fantastic part of the show and their characters have been a huge success. Their storylines have broken boundaries that have not been seen in a soap before and the love for them by the viewers can be seen in their 'Chryed' fans. When Marc announced he had decided to move on, we had a tough decision to make. After numerous conversations, which included John, it was decided that there is only one outcome for Syed and Christian. We wish them both all the best for the future." Syed and Christian left together on 15 November 2012.

Returns (2014–2016)
On 7 April 2014, it was announced that Christian would be returning in May 2014 for the funeral of Lucy Beale (Hetti Bywater), who was to be killed as part of a new storyline (see Who Killed Lucy Beale?).  It was revealed on 11 May 2014 that Christian would return when Jane's ex-husband, Ian Beale (Adam Woodyatt) visited him "in search of Jane". Christian returned for two episodes on 19 and 20 May 2014. On 17 January 2015, it was announced that Partridge would be returning again, this time for the show's thirtieth anniversary which would see Christian return for Ian and Jane's wedding. Of his return, Partridge said, "I am honoured to be returning to EastEnders at this most exciting time to celebrate 30 years of the show, and more importantly to find out who killed Lucy!" The show's executive producer, Dominic Treadwell-Collins, joked that Jane could not get married without having her brother at the occasion and said that the EastEnders team were "thrilled to have him [Partridge] back" for the anniversary. Treadwell-Collins then promised that Partridge's "extensive theatre experience" would be utilised as he "is plunged into EastEnders' live week." Spoiler images released on 10 February 2015 teased Partridge's return to the show, revealing that Christian would surprise Jane by initially telling her that he is unable to attend the wedding, before revealing himself to her. Partridge later teased another return to the show, saying, "I can always be lured back!"On 8 April 2016, it was announced that Partridge would be "briefly" returning for a third guest stint in "early summer" 2016, alongside Lynda Baron who plays his on-screen mother, Linda Clarke. Their return storyline was billed as "explosive" for the Beale family, "unmissable", and something that would see "change in the Beale family forever". Partridge was confirmed to be filming EastEnders as well as touring with the production of Chicago The Musical. Of his return, Partridge said, "I am thrilled to be able to return to EastEnders whilst touring the UK with Chicago. Christian is never far from my mind – I turn my back for five minutes and look what happens." Partridge returned to filming on 14 April 2016, filming scenes which he believed would air "around June". He described returning to filming as "wonderful" and compared to "putting on a nice, comfortable pair of shoes." He also praised the EastEnders team for being "very welcoming", adding that it "seemed so natural to be back" and felt like he had "never been away". Partridge confirmed that he would feature in a lot of scenes with Brett as Christian will return to "look after Jane Beale". He teased that his return may involve the 'Who Killed Lucy Beale?' storyline and would be part of a "big year" for the Beale family.

Reception
The character's introduction to EastEnders was welcomed by critics, with the Pink News deeming him to be "a realistic portrayal of a London-based, slightly older gay man." Gareth McLean of The Guardian praised the character, saying "he brings EastEnders a step closer to more accurately resembling London."In October 2008, a kiss between Christian and new love interest Lee prompted 145 complaints from viewers who were displeased that homosexual kissing had been broadcast before the 9pm watershed. The BBC released a statement defending the incident, stating: "EastEnders aims to reflect real life, and this means including and telling stories about characters from many different backgrounds, faiths, religions and sexualities. We approach our portrayal of homosexual relationships in the same way as we do heterosexual relationships. In this instance, Christian is enjoying the first flush of romance and we've shown him being affectionate with his new boyfriend in the same way any couple would. We also aim to ensure that depictions of affection or sexuality between couples are suitable for pre-watershed viewing. We believe that the general tone and content of EastEnders is now widely recognised, meaning that parents can make an informed decision as to whether they want their children to watch."

See also
List of EastEnders characters (2008)
List of LGBT characters in television and radio
List of soap operas with LGBT characters