Passage 1:
John Franks (judge)
Sir John Franks (1770–1852), was an Indian judge.
Franks was the second son of Thomas Franks (1729–1787), of Ballymagooly, County Cork, by Catherine, daughter of Rev. John Day. He was born in 1770, and graduated at Trinity College, Dublin, B.A. 1788, LL.B. 1791. He was called to the Irish Bar 1792. He went on the Munster circuit, and had a good practice as chamber counsel. He became King's Counsel in 1823. In 1825 the Board of Control, on the recommendation of his friend William Plunket, then Attorney General for Ireland, appointed him a judge of the Supreme Court at Calcutta. He received, as was customary, the honour of knighthood before his departure for India. He held this office until the effect of the climate on his health brought about his resignation in 1834. On his return, he resided at Roebuck, near Dublin. He died on 11 January 1852. He married three times. By his first wife, Catherine, daughter of his cousin Thomas Franks of Carrig, Cork, he had two sons and three daughters. His second marriage was to Jane Marshall, and his third to Sarah O'Regan. His eldest son and heir was John Franks of Ballyscaddan, County Limerick; his younger son, Matthew, was an army officer, as were many of his later descendants.
Franks was popular, both as advocate and judge. He was an intimate friend of John Philpot Curran, and one of his executors.  W. H. Curran, J.P. Curran's son, commemorates his ‘peculiar aboriginal wit, quiet, keen, and natural to the occasion, and, best of all, never malignant’.

Arms
Passage 2:
Henry Archer
Henry Archer (1799 – 2 March 1863) was the son of an Irish landowner. He attended Trinity College, Dublin. He was called to the Irish Bar and spent most of his time between North Wales and London.

Ffestiniog Railway
In railway circles, Archer is known mostly for the Ffestiniog Railway, which was the major work of his life, a fiery temper, a large frame and an even larger personality. A few recall his long running but fruitless championship of the various Porth Dinllaen railway and harbour projects.
The Ffestiniog slate industry should be grateful to Henry Archer for being in the right place at the right time. It was at the Penygroes Inn in 1829 that Archer met Samuel Holland Jnr., of Rhiwbryfdir slate mine at Blaenau Ffestiniog who was returning from Caernarfon where he banked with Williams and Co. He had travelled between Caernarfon and Penygroes as a passenger on the horse drawn Nantlle Tramway and had called at the Inn for a cup of tea before collecting his horse and riding home.
In conversation, Archer expressed an interest in the Nantlle Railway that was apparently quietly seeking a purchaser. Holland, it is said, suggested that Archer should leave Nantlle to its fate and turn his energies to building a proper railway from Ffestiniog to Porthmadog. A detailed discussion followed and Archer became involved with Holland in the promotion of the Ffestiniog Railway Company.
It was left to Archer as the Managing Director designate to raise the initial capital of £24,185 largely on the Dublin Stock Exchange (including £11,905 of his own money). He was the driving force also in steering the bill through Parliament and in managing the company during construction and through its early years when Archer had to persuade a suspicious slate industry to entrust its slate transport to a railway. Archer quarrelled with his fellow directors, with the Oakeley Estate and with James Spooner and was less active in FR company affairs after the railway opened. In 1836 he sued the FR company for his salary and received a substantial settlement. Nominally he remained as Managing Director until 1856 and as a director until 1860, when the FR Co. gave him a pension of £100 per annum as the originator of the FR and for devoting many years to its service.

Philately
Philatelists know Henry Archer as the inventor of the first postage stamp perforating machine, which he patented in 1848, to facilitate stamp separation. Following the successful Prince Consort Essay trials in 1853, he sold his copyright and patents to the Postmaster General for £4,000. In early trials, his alternative Archer Roulette machines failed to work well.
Archer died at Pau, Pyrénées-Atlantiques, France on 2 March 1863.
Passage 3:
Fenmore Baldwin
Fenmore Baldwin is a fictional character from The Young and the Restless, an American soap opera on the CBS network. Created by former head writers Lynn Marie Latham and Kay Alden as the son of Michael Baldwin (Christian LeBlanc) and Lauren Fenmore (Tracey Bregman), the character was born during the episode airing on October 13, 2006. Initially portrayed by various child actors, including Robbie Tucker, the character was rapidly aged to a teenager in 2012, with Max Ehrich assuming the role through 2015. In 2018, the role was recast with Zach Tinker.
As a teenager, the character's storylines have included a romance with Summer Newman (Hunter King), as well as a cyberbullying plot with Jamie Vernon (Daniel Polo), which was generally well received by the actors and public. Fenmore has also developed a "dark side", coinciding with teenage angst. Ehrich characterized the character as being at a "vulnerable age", while "trying to find his place in the world". Ehrich's portrayal has received a positive response; Michael Fairman of On-Air On-Soaps described the actor as talented, as well as Luke Kerr of Zap2it praising Ehrich for "mastering the crazy behind-the-eyes element" of the character's relatives. Ehrich's portrayal garnered him four consecutive Daytime Emmy Award nominations between 2013 and 2016.

Casting
The role was first portrayed by three sets of twins, including Avital and Amiel Weiss, Matthew and Riley Esham, and Aiden and Andrew Gonzales over the course of 2006 to 2009. The role was then rapidly aged for the first time when Tucker assumed the role in October 2009. In May 2012, it was announced that the character had been rapidly aged again to a teenager, with Ehrich scheduled to join the cast. He made his debut on June 11, 2012. In an interview with Soap Opera Digest, Ehrich stated that he had gone through a "long audition process", saying: "I got a callback and did a chemistry read with someone, then came back to read with Christian LeBlanc. By the end of that audition, I knew something felt right and that he could be my father." When asked about signing a contract with the series, Ehrich stated: "I'm still on recurring right now. I think it's all relevant to your character and either way, in my book, it's awesome. I would sign, yes, but it'll happen when the time is right." Ehrich last aired on May 18, 2015.In November 2018, Ehrich announced on Instagram that he'd been asked to reprise the role, however, due to a string of stalking incidents, he could not return; as a result, Zach Tinker was announced as a recast. Tinker debuted in the role on December 3, 2018. Tinker was written out on February 11, 2019. In November 2019, it was reported that Tinker will be returning to the show; airing the week of December 23. On January 13, 2023, it was announced Tinker would reprise the role beginning January 25.

Development
Characterization
When Ehrich first stepped into the role, he stated: "There [are] so many places where they can go with this role. I have just gotten back into Genoa City. It's such a vulnerable age, so really there [are] so many different paths I can go down. And there's so much that can happen. I’m very, very curious to see where they go with it." When asked how he would describe Fenmore, Ehrich said: "He is definitely figuring himself out. You’re on the brink of adulthood. You have to start taking a bit of responsibility. [And] your hormones start kicking in hardcore. So he's definitely going through some stuff." In another interview, he described Fenmore as "trying to find his place in the world", saying: "When Fen first came back, I think he was at a very vulnerable age and was trying to find his place in the world; just really figure out who he is. He has such a strict dad, who just became D.A., so of course his morals are so strong and everything is black and white, right or wrong." Luke Kerr of Zap2it wrote that the character had become "creepy" during his angst and acting out.

Teenage angst
When Fenmore and female character Summer Newman (Hunter King) were rapidly aged to teenagers at the same time, Deanna Barnert of MSN Entertainment previewed: "These two kids may learn about some of the insane things their parents have done – as fans know, that says a lot!" She also wrote that given who their parents are, "that can only mean trouble". Fenmore has dated Summer, to which Ehrich stated: "Everything he does is for his love for Summer. He has this obsession with her. Every action he does stems from that." In another interview, he stated of their relationship: "I think Fen’s first love is Summer; he falls in love; he’s infatuated with her. She plays games with him, and where it’s going is – will Fen get into her ways, or will he stand his ground? Everything Fenmore does is coming from his love for Summer, so he’s still the same kid, it’s just sometimes love makes you do some crazy thing Fenmore later began to enter a rebellious phase." Tracey Bregman (who portrays his mother Lauren) stated that she "was always hoping they would show the dark side of our child, because both Lauren and Michael have dark sides. That is something they both work hard on to suppress, that comes out now and them." Christian LeBlanc (who portrays his father Michael) stated Michael has "troubled youth to deal with", saying: "It’s the first time on Y&R that such a young storyline has pulled such focus. It’s going to be really fascinating. The whole family gets drawn in. The trouble with Fenmore affects Lauren and Michael. [There’s a] rippling effect, like every good story." The character was later involved in a cyberbullying storyline with Summer and Jamie Vernon (Daniel Polo). Michael Logan of TV Guide previewed the storyline, writing: "Adding fuel to the fire is young Fen Baldwin (Max Ehrich), who is so infatuated with Summer that he becomes her partner in crime — in fact, he takes things a few dangerous steps further once he sees Summer's growing fondness for Jamie." Ehrich liked the plot as he was bullied as a child, stating: "Kids do it out of their own sadness or insecurity, but needless to say that doesn’t matter when you’re a victim of it – you feel so isolated and so alone. To have a storyline that addresses it, it’s like, "This is real; this is what happens". People need to know the truth of what is going on out there."In another interview, Ehrich expressed more of his opinions on the storyline, stating: "It’s so relevant now and it’s such an epidemic. Just for it to be out there to show that it happens. This is a real issue that needs to be addressed. To be a part of that, and to spread awareness feels so nice because I’ve personally experience bullying and I know many friends who have. Whether people’s reason behind it are good or bad, nonetheless, it affects kids to such an extent especially young, vulnerable kids." Of the character's "dark side", Ehrich stated: "I love playing dark, but justifiably dark. It's never coming from a psychopathic place. First, he got obsessed with Summer, and that caused the bullying storyline, and now he's dealing with his parents' problems and possible divorce. Fenmore's issues come from a place that makes sense. It's interesting, because everyone around him is pretty much lying, and Fen is supposed to be the crazy one. Yet he's actually the truthful one." He also stated that "as an actor, it's fun to go out of control", saying: "As an actor, it’s fun when you’re out of control, and you don’t even know you’re acting. Like, literally, you just escape. And I got to feel that. And I’ve had numerous times on this show where I’ve gotten to be out of control, and it’s a really nice feeling. It’s exhilarating." He also revealed that he had been listening to the music of John Mayer and Bruno Mars to get into Fenmore's head space. Ehrich also conceded that he didn't want Fenmore to go "too far", saying: "He's a really troubled kid who is just trying to find his way in life. He's not evil. I don't think he's asking for too much except for some love and trust. He's on a journey—a long, long journey to find some peace."

Storylines
Lauren Fenmore Baldwin (Tracey E. Bregman) gave birth to Fenmore prematurely, and he was forced to remain in the hospital for a short time. Shortly after his birth, he was kidnapped, along with Phyllis Summers Newman (Michelle Stafford) and her daughter, Summer Newman, by Sheila Carter, who had had cosmetic surgery to look like Phyllis. All are rescued when Lauren tracked down Sheila and shot her. In 2012, Fenmore was sent to stay with his half-brother, Scotty Grainger, in Canada due to Lauren's fear that Daisy Carter (Yvonne Zima), Sheila's daughter, would end up harming him. Months later, Fenmore returns a moody teenager, kindling a friendship with a teenaged Summer. They became close and later began a relationship. When Summer began harassing a boy named Jamie Vernon (Daniel Polo) online, Fenmore was against the idea, but when his father, Michael Baldwin (Christian LeBlanc), began looking out for Jamie, he became jealous and took over the bullying by sending him harassing text messages from a disposable cell phone. Fenmore's jealously continued when Michael and Lauren had Jamie move in with them temporarily. He attempted to frame Jamie for stealing his mother's expensive decoration, and attempted to take pictures of him with the decoration on a rooftop. The boys struggled and Jamie was found face down in the snow below. He accused Fenmore of pushing him, Michael believed Jamie over his own son and he was arrested. However, Jamie later confessed that Fenmore did not push him and he was exonerated. Michael and Lauren's marriage suffered due to the bullying ordeal.
Fenmore was befriended by Carmine Basco (Marco Dapper), the man whom Lauren was having an affair with, while also trying to win over Summer again, who was crushing on Kyle Abbott (Hartley Sawyer). Fenmore asked Summer to their senior prom, and instead of going, Summer threw a party at her mother's penthouse. During a game of truth or dare, Fenmore was dared to kiss Summer, who had text messaged Kyle that she was in trouble. Kyle later punched Fenmore in the face; footage was caught on video and uploaded online, weakening Fenmore's social status. Afterward, he is befriended by Raven (Amanda Leighton); they go to a graduation party, do drugs and talk about their social struggles. When Fenmore discovers Carmine's affair with his mother, he isolates himself from his family and continues to do drugs. Afterward, he asks Carmine to help him obtain more drugs, and while he refuses, he finds Fenmore unconscious in the back of the local restaurant. When he awakens in the hospital, he tells his parents that Carmine gave him the drugs that he overdosed on, but he later confesses that this was a lie. After stealing drugs from the hospital and getting caught, Michael and Lauren send Fenmore to rehab. After being released for an event in which Lauren would be crowned businesswoman of the year, Carmine is shot to death in an alleyway. Fenmore is convinced he murdered Carmine but admits to being high on drugs at the time and can't remember clearly. Michael decides to confess to the murder to protect his family, and he is sent to prison. Knowing that his father did not kill Carmine, Fenmore steals drugs and purposely gets caught so he can be put in prison as well. While in prison, Fenmore tries to make deals with other prisoners to get his father's sentence reduced, as Paul Williams (Doug Davidson) and Christine Blair (Lauralee Bell) try to uncover the truth behind Carmine's death. Michael is later released after Fen confesses to killing Carmine, worrying his parents.
As Paul, Christine and Michael continue to hit dead ends on solving Carmine's murder, Fen announces he wants to confess to a judge and be sentenced prison time; Christine and Lauren however are strongly against it. Just as Fen decides he is going to confess to the judge, Michael discovers that Carmine is in fact alive. He reveals that he was in fact being transported into witness protection the day of the banquet for giving the FBI evidence against another criminal, but he wanted to see Lauren one last time. Fen shot him that night but doctors and medical examiners secretly revived him and sent him into witness protection. He refuses to return to Genoa City to exonerate Fen because of his own safety, so instead Michael films him confessing that he is alive. Michael arrives with the video before Fen can confess, and he is exonerated. After being reunited with his family, Michael and Lauren later mention that Fen had gone to Arizona to visit potential colleges.

Reception
Jillian Bowe of Zap2it was surprised by the decision to age both Fenmore and Summer Newman (Hunter King) at the same time. Omar White-Nobles of TVSource wrote, "Don't they grow up fast?", referring to Soap Opera Rapid Aging Syndrome. Michael Fairman of On-Air On-Soaps wrote that aging the characters would help to "beef up" the soap opera's summer storylines. Roger Newcomb of the website We Love Soaps wondered if the character would "have issues with his parents the way other aged kids on the show have of late". Fairman later stated of Ehrich's portrayal: "Recently, the powers-that-be at Y&R chose to age Lauren and Michael’s tot of a son, Fenmore, to a teenager (another victim of Soap Opera Rapid Aging Syndrome) and with that comes new complex problems for the Baldwins, and as it appears “Fen” may be a chip off the old block ... sort to speak.  The talented Max Ehrich was cast as the new Fen, and since he has begun to air in the part he has received high marks, not only from his scene partners, but daytime fans, too." He also called Fenmore's family "one of the most fascinating TV families". Luke Kerr, also of Zap2it, wrote that he "really likes" Ehrich as Fenmore, stating: "He has totally mastered the Baldwin/Fisher crazy behind-the-eyes element of early Michael and Kevin (Greg Rikaart)." Jamey Giddens also wrote of the character's family storyline, saying: "A father hellbent on preventing his son from going down the same unspeakable path he once traveled; a mother who refuses to believe her child could be guilty of the heinous crime he's being accused of committing. No, this isn't the back page copy for Jodi Picoult's next best-selling novel, it's the saga of the Baldwins on The Young and the Restless!"In 2013, Ehrich received a Daytime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Younger Actor in a Drama Series for his portrayal of Fenmore. On the day the actor was informed of his nomination, Ehrich stated: "I’ve been in daydream all day. I feel like I was hit by an electric current." He admitted that it was a "pretty easy choice" choosing which scene to submit for consideration; Ehrich chose a scene where Fenmore tells Jamie that Summer is the one cyberbullying him. He stated that he chose that episode "because that day, I felt this outer body experience. I was not in control at all". Of his nomination, Ehrich stated: "It’s an honor, and it’s something I hope will hit me really soon, because it doesn’t feel real at all!" However, Ehrich lost the award to Days of Our Lives star Chandler Massey for his portrayal of Will Horton.
Passage 4:
George Allman (natural historian)
George James Allman FRS FRSE (1812 – 24 November 1898) was an Irish ecologist, botanist and zoologist who served as Emeritus Professor of Natural History at Edinburgh University in Scotland.

Life
Allman was born in Cork, Ireland, the son of James C. Allman of Bandon, and received his early education at the Royal Academical Institution, Belfast. For some time he studied for the Irish Bar, but ultimately gave up law in favour of natural science. In 1843, he graduated in medicine at Trinity College, Dublin, and in the following year was appointed professor of botany in that university, succeeding the botanist William Allman (1776–1846), who was the father of George Johnston Allman (distant relations of George). 
This position he held for about twelve years until he moved to Edinburgh as Regius Professor of natural history. There he remained until 1870, when considerations of health induced him to resign his professorship and retire to Dorset, where he devoted himself to his favourite pastime of horticulture.The scientific papers which came from his pen are very numerous. His most important work was upon the gymnoblast group of the hydrozoa, on which he published in 1871-1872, through the Ray Society, an exhaustive monograph, based largely on his own researches and illustrated with drawings of remarkable excellence from his own hand. Biological science is also indebted to him for several convenient terms which have come into daily use, e.g. endoderm and ectoderm for the two cellular layers of the body-wall in Coelenterata. He contributed articles to the Irish Naturalist.He became a fellow of the Royal Society in 1854, and received a Royal medal in 1873. He received the Cunningham Medal of the Royal Irish Academy in 1878.In 1859–60, he was President of the Botanical Society of Edinburgh, for  several years (1874–1881) President of the Linnaean Society, and in 1879 presided over the Sheffield meeting of the British Association.He died in Ardmore, Parkstone in Dorset and is buried in Poole Cemetery.

Family
Allman married Hannah Louisa Shaen. They had no children. George Allman's family ran  Allman's Bandon Distillery, his brother, the Liberal MP Richard Allman, was a partner in the Distillery.

Select bibliography
Allman G. J. 1843. On a new genus of terrestrial gasteropod. The Athenaeum 1843 (829): 851. London.
Passage 5:
J. J. Clancy (North County Dublin MP)
John Joseph Clancy (15 July 1847 – 25 November 1928), usually known as J. J. Clancy, was an Irish nationalist politician and Member of Parliament (MP) in the House of Commons for North Dublin from 1885 to 1918. He was one of the leaders of the later Irish Home Rule movement and promoter of the Housing of the Working Classes (Ireland) Act 1908, known as the Clancy Act. Called to the Irish Bar in 1887, he became a King's Counsel in 1906.

Origins
Son of a farmer, William Clancy of Carraghy, J. J. Clancy was born at the height of the Great Irish Famine in the parish of Annaghdown, Co. Galway, which was one of the worst affected areas.  He was educated at the College of the Immaculate Conception, Athlone, and at the recently founded non-sectarian Queen's College, Galway, obtaining an MA in Ancient Classics in 1868. At both institutions he was a contemporary of his later parliamentary colleague, T. P. O'Connor.
Clancy spent three years as a Classics teacher at Holy Cross School, Tralee, where he married Margaret Louise Hickie (d. 1912) of Newcastle West, County Limerick, in 1868. She was from a strongly Nationalist family and one of her nephews was the Irish revolutionary and author Piaras Béaslaí, who had close relations with the Clancy family.

Early political life
In 1870, J. J. Clancy took up the post of assistant editor of the leading Nationalist weekly The Nation, acting as editor in 1880–85. During this time he was active in the Land League, Home Rule League, Young Ireland Society and Irish Labour and Industrial Union, and was elected to the Organising Committee of the Irish National League on its foundation in 1882.  He organised a vigorous voter registration campaign in County Dublin after the Nationalist defeat at a by-election in 1883, and was elected MP for the North seat in the Nationalist landslide December 1885 general election.
Clancy was appointed by the Irish Party in 1886 as editor of the Irish Press Agency in London, whose purpose was to win support for Irish Home Rule in Great Britain.  In this role he wrote or edited dozens of pamphlets, many of them attacking the regime of coercion introduced by Arthur Balfour as Chief Secretary for Ireland after the Conservative Party returned to power in 1886.

Parnell split
Clancy had long been a strong supporter of the Irish leader Charles Stewart Parnell. When a majority of the Irish Parliamentary Party turned against Parnell in November 1890, following what amounted to a demand by the Liberal leader, Gladstone, that Parnell should stand down over his involvement with Katharine O'Shea, Clancy rapidly emerged as one of Parnell's key defenders. On the third day of the Irish Party's week-long debate on Parnell's leadership in Committee Room 15 of the House of Commons, Clancy proposed an amendment that attempted to compromise by seeking further views from Gladstone and the other British Liberal Party leaders. Although this move held off a decision for another three days, it was ultimately unsuccessful. Clancy was among the minority who stayed with Parnell when the party split on 6 December 1890 into the pro-Parnellite Irish National League (INL) and the anti-Parnellite Irish National Federation (INF). He later joined the editorial staff of the Irish Daily Independent, founded to support the Parnellite cause.
After Parnell's death in October 1891, the Parnellites were in an isolated position. At the July 1892 general election they faced vigorous opposition from the Catholic Church and Clancy was one of only nine INL Parnellites elected. Thereafter he worked closely with John Redmond, who led the small Parnellite group and after the 1900 general election the re-united Irish Parliamentary Party. Together with fellow Parnellites Willie Redmond and Pat O'Brien, Clancy was one of the small core of Redmond's confidants, and until Redmond's death in March 1918 was his most trusted adviser on legal draftsmanship and constitutional law. After the retirement of Thomas Sexton, Clancy was seen as the Irish Party's financial expert.

Reforming legislation
Following the overwhelming rejection of the second Irish Home Rule Bill by the House of Lords in 1893 and the Conservatives' return to power in 1895 general election, immediate prospects for Home Rule were abandoned.  Over the next 15 years, Clancy focused on making the most of opportunities for reform.  He helped in the framing of the various Land Acts, which settled the land question by enabling tenant farmers to buy their holdings, publishing a guide to the Land Act of 1896. He supported the introduction of democratic local government in Ireland following the Local Government (Ireland) Act 1898 by publishing a guide to the Act and editing the County Councils Gazette. He acted as spokesman for the Irish Party in support of the Trade Disputes Bills of 1904 and 1906 that restored the effective right to strike—which had been undermined by the Taff Vale Case of 1901.
After the Liberals' return to office in the 1906 general election, Clancy helped get inscribed on the Statute Book Acts of considerable importance. He played a major role in promoting the Town Tenants (Ireland) Act of 1906, which gave rights to urban tenants to retain the value of their improvements parallel to those the Land Acts extended to farmers. Housing conditions in Ireland at the time were very poor, and Clancy's 1908 Housing Act, known as the Clancy Act made various financial and administrative changes with the aim of speeding up the building of council housing. The Clancy Act created a boom in urban social housing in Ireland. Clancy also contributed to the resolution of the Catholic University question, via the Act of 1908 that established the present National University of Ireland, which removed barriers that had held back participation in higher education by Ireland's Catholic majority.

Third Home Rule Bill
Attaining Home Rule for Ireland by constitutional means required overcoming opposition from the House of Lords.  This opportunity arose as a result of David Lloyd George's 1909 budget, which the Lords attempted to veto, leading the Liberals to fight a general election in 1910 on a platform of limiting the power of the Lords.   But the 1909 budget was also unpopular in Ireland, because of changes to alcohol taxes and death duties, the latter affecting the very farmers whom the Irish Party itself had successfully campaigned to make owners of their farms.  A delicate balance needed to be trodden and it fell to Clancy, by now the Irish Party's finance spokesman, to deal with the problem.
The Government of Ireland Act 1914, creating a settlement for Ireland similar to the later devolution arrangements for Scotland of 1998, eventually received the royal assent on 18 September 1914. But this was after earlier vehement Unionist opposition had become apparent in Ulster, featuring the Larne gun-running and near-mutiny in the British army. Implementation of the Act was postponed until after the First World War, which began on 4 August.

Rise of Sinn Féin
Following the Easter Rising of 1916, misjudgments by the British government bolstered support for Sinn Féin, the broad movement campaigning for an independent Republic, and events slipped out of the Irish Parliamentary leaders' control. The younger generation had been brought up in a greatly intensified atmosphere of cultural nationalism focusing particularly on militant separatism.
Clancy was one of five Irish Parliamentary Party representatives in the Irish Convention of 1917–18 who tried to get an agreed settlement of the Ulster question. In this capacity he took the majority Nationalist line, compromising over the question of customs and excise and safeguards for Protestant interests for the sake of agreement with the Southern Unionists, and rejecting the more assertive Nationalist line of a group led by the Bishop of Raphoe. Although the Convention produced a majority report, the consensus did not include the Northern Protestants and Lloyd George subsequently went ahead with legislation for partition under the Fourth Home Rule Act.  Following Redmond's death in March 1918, Clancy was seen as the leader of the remnants of the Redmondite wing of the Party.  He was one of the committee of six who drafted the Irish Parliamentary Party manifesto for the 1918 general election. In that election he was defeated by more than two to one by the Sinn Féin candidate, Frank Lawless, the Parliamentary Party swept aside and only winning a disproportionate six contested seats, on 21.7% of the national vote in Ireland.
J. J. Clancy died in Dublin on 25 November 1928.

Notes
Selected writings
Essays and Speeches on the Irish Question:  Vol. 1, edited by J. J. Clancy, London, Irish Press Agency, 1888
‘The Position of the Irish Tenant’, Contemporary Review, Vol.LVI, July 1889
Short Lessons on the Irish Question;  or, The leaflets of the Irish Press Agency, Vol.1, Nos.1–102, edited by J. J. Clancy,  London, Irish Press Agency, 1890
‘The Question of the Irish Leadership’, Contemporary Review, Vol.LIX, March 1891
‘The Financial Aspects of Home Rule’, Contemporary Review, Vol.LXIII, January 1893
‘The Housing Problem:  How to Solve It’,  Speech delivered at the meeting of the Central branch of the United Irish League on 6 Nov 1907,  Dublin, United Irish League, 1907
The Irish Party and the Budget:  A Vindication, Dublin, Sealy, Bryers and Walker, 1910
The Home Rule Act:  A Statement of its Provisions, Dublin, United Irish League, 1917
Passage 6:
Charles Johnstone
Charles Johnstone (c. 1719–1800) was an Irish novelist. Prevented by deafness from practising at the Irish Bar, he went to India, where he was proprietor of a newspaper. He wrote one successful book, Chrysal, or the Adventures of a Guinea, a somewhat sombre satire.

Life
Born at Carrigogunnell, County Limerick about 1719, he was educated at Trinity College, Dublin, but is not known to have taken a degree. He was called to the bar, but extreme deafness prevented his practice except as a chamber lawyer, where he did not succeed. He began to write as a living.In May 1782, Johnstone sailed for India, with a dangerous shipwreck on the voyage. He found employment in writing for the Bengal newspaper press, under the signature of "Oneiropolos". He became in time joint proprietor of a journal, and prospered. He died at Calcutta about 1800.

Works
Johnstone's major work, entitled Chrysal, or the Adventures of a Guinea, and frequently reprinted, appeared in 4 vols., London, 1760–65. The first and second volumes had been written during a visit to George Edgcumbe, 3rd Baron Edgcumbe in Devon. The book, a succès de scandale, claimed to reveal political secrets, and to expose the profligacy of well-known public characters.Johnstone was also the author of:
The Reverie, or a Flight to the Paradise of Fools, 2 vols. London, 1762.
The History of Arsaces, Prince of Betlis, 2 vols. 1774.
The Pilgrim, or a Picture of Life, 2 vols. 1775.
History of John Juniper, Esq., alias Juniper Jack, 3 vols. 1781.

See also
Hellfire Club
Passage 7:
Thomas O'Shaughnessy
Sir Thomas Lopdell O'Shaughnessy, KC (22 December 1850 – 7 March 1933) was the last Recorder of Dublin in Ireland.

Early life
O'Shaughnessy was born on 22 December 1850 in Dublin, son of Thomas O'Shaughnessy and Mary Lopdell. He married Catherine Trueman in 1879 and they had four children. He died at his home in Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin on 7 March 1933. Educated at Queens College Galway, he was called to the Irish Bar in 1874 and to the English Bar by Middle Temple in 1894.

Legal career
O'Shaughnessy carried out his practice on the Connaught and North Eastern Circuit. He served as counsel to the plaintiffs in relation to the disastrous rail accident during a school outing from Armagh to Newry. O'Shaughnessy won a great reputation from this trial, and took silk (an informal term for Queen's Counsel) soon after. For fifteen years, he was one of the most influential, effective and well-paid barristers of the Dublin Four Courts, and was regarded as a mentor to younger barristers.Maurice Healy remarked that there was a rather unfriendly rivalry between himself and William Huston Dodd as to which of them was entitled to be called "Leader of the Bar". He was sworn in as Recorder of Dublin in 1905. He would be the last to hold this position, a role which stretched back to James Stanihurst in 1564. The Recordership was abolished in 1924 and O'Shaughnessy became a judge in the High Court of the Irish Free State. He resigned in 1925 and received a knighthood in 1927. He was a Bencher of the King's Inns and was sworn in as a member of the Irish Privy Council in 1912. He was a member of the Reform Club.
Passage 8:
Robbie Tucker
Robbie Tucker (born April 5, 2001) is an American actor. His best known role to date is that of Fenmore Baldwin on the CBS soap opera The Young and the Restless. Tucker has also starred on other series, such as Criminal Minds, FlashForward and It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia. He has also appeared in the films Prom and Little Fockers.
In 2012, Tucker was nominated at the 33rd Young Artist Awards for his performance in Prom and won for his role in The Young and the Restless.He is also the brother of actress Jillian Rose Reed.

Filmography
Passage 9:
It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia
It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia is an American sitcom created by Rob McElhenney and developed with Glenn Howerton for FX. It premiered on August 4, 2005, and was moved to FXX beginning with the ninth season in 2013. It stars Charlie Day, Howerton, McElhenney, Kaitlin Olson, and Danny DeVito. The series follows the exploits of "The Gang", a group of narcissistic and sociopathic friends who run the Irish dive bar Paddy's Pub in South Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, but spend most of their free time drinking, scheming, arguing amongst themselves, and plotting elaborate cons against others, and at times each other, for personal benefit, financial gain, revenge, or simply out of boredom.
With its 15th season, the series became the longest-running live-action American comedy series, replacing The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet, which ran for 14 seasons (435 episodes) between 1952 and 1966. In December 2020, the series was renewed for a total of four additional seasons, bringing it to 18 seasons. The 16th season premiered on June 7, 2023.The show has received critical acclaim, with many lauding the cast performances and dark humor. It has amassed a large cult following.

Plot
The series follows a group of misfit, narcissistic sociopaths, referred to as "The Gang", who run a meager, unsuccessful Irish bar called Paddy's Pub in the neighborhood of South Philadelphia. The Gang originally consists of janitor Charlie Kelly (Charlie Day), bouncer Mac (Rob McElhenney), and bartender Dennis Reynolds (Glenn Howerton), the three of whom also own Paddy's Pub, in addition to Dennis' twin sister Dee Reynolds (Kaitlin Olson), a struggling actress who works as a waitress there. In season 2, they are joined by Frank Reynolds (Danny DeVito), an eccentric millionaire and the neglectful father of the Reynolds twins, who takes over most of the ownership of the bar. He soon becomes the financial catalyst for the Gang, often funding many of the Gang's over-complicated plots, while simultaneously succumbing to the brazen depravity of the group.
Each member of The Gang exhibits unethical behavior and anti-social traits such as extreme selfishness, pathological dishonesty, narcissism, aggression, excessive drinking and substance abuse, unregulated emotions, cruelty, and absolutely no regard for the people around them, while also displaying acute codependency, stupidity, and a surprising lack of awareness of basic social norms. The comedy of the show emerges from these extreme character traits resulting in conflicts that lead The Gang into absurd, dark and painfully embarrassing situations, typically ending with them getting their comeuppance, but never learning their lesson. This allows the show to mine a variety of socio-political and economic issues for satire and dark humor, while keeping the characters in a state of relative stasis conducive to the long-running sitcom format.
Episodes usually find The Gang hatching elaborate schemes and regularly conspiring, against both outsiders and one another, for personal gain, revenge, or simply schadenfreude. They habitually inflict physical and psychological pain on anyone who crosses their path, even each other, yet always return to the status quo at Paddy's Pub because they have alienated the rest of society and have only each other's company in the end. The Gang has no sense of shame when attempting to get what they want and often engage in activities that others would find humiliating, disgusting, or shocking. Some of these situations include pretending to be disabled, becoming addicted to crack cocaine in order to qualify for welfare, attempted cannibalism, kidnapping, waterboarding, blackface, blackmail, stalking, grave robbing, hiding naked inside a couch to eavesdrop on people, tricking a man into giving his daughter a lap dance, foraging naked in the sewers for rings and coins, impersonating police officers to extort civilians, creating a cult, secretly feeding someone their dead pet, plugging their open wounds with trash, setting an apartment full of people on fire and nailing the exit shut, taking out life insurance on a suicidal person, and lying about having AIDS in order to get priority access to water park rides. In an angry summation of their circumstances during one such escapade, Dennis laments The Gang's dynamic:

We immediately escalate everything to a ten... somebody comes in with some preposterous plan or idea, then all of a sudden everyone's on the gas, nobody's on the brakes, nobody's thinking, everyone's just talking over each other with one idiotic idea after another! Until, finally, we find ourselves in a situation where we've broken into somebody's house – and the homeowner is home!
With rare exceptions, Paddy's Pub generates limited revenue. Most stay away from the establishment due to the numerous stabbings that have taken place. The few regular customers have been known to serve themselves. The Gang has been known to close Paddy's for extended periods without warning. When the bar is open, they shirk their respective jobs' responsibilities and choose to drink instead. Paddy's is only able to stay in business because of Frank's financial backing, government bailouts and tax fraud.

Cast and characters
The show features a core cast of five characters (The Gang) and a recurring cast of colorful side characters, including the Waitress, Cricket, the McPoyles, the Ponderosas, the Lawyer and various family members like Mrs. Kelly, Mrs. Mac and Uncle Jack Kelly, who cross paths and interact with the Gang in increasingly unhinged ways as the show progresses.

Main
Charlie Day as Charlie Kelly, co-owner and janitor of Paddy's Pub. He is a childhood friend of Mac, and high school friend of Dennis and Dee. He lives in squalor with Frank in a run-down, vermin-infested apartment, and has deep-seated psychological problems, partly due to substance abuse from huffing paint and glue, and partly due to his complicated family background possibly involving child abuse. He has an extensive history of pica and regularly eats various items not meant for human consumption, such as cat food, stickers, paint, and bleach. Due to his general lack of intelligence and his illiteracy, he is arguably the simplest member of The Gang. Despite this, Charlie is a naturally gifted musician, a self-proclaimed expert in "bird law" and possibly the only competent worker at Paddy's with his knack for unorthodox maintenance practices ("Charlie Work"). He also has an unhealthy obsession with "The Waitress", a recurring character who finds his interest in her creepy.
Glenn Howerton as Dennis Reynolds, co-owner and the main bartender of Paddy's Pub, in addition to being Dee's twin brother and Frank's son. Originally the most intelligent and normal-seeming of the three co-owners, Dennis is slowly revealed to be the most narcissistic and psychopathic of The Gang. Dennis is extremely superficial, selfish, vain and abrasive. His predatory nature is often depicted through numerous attempts to seduce various women; which, when successful, result in him gaslighting and emotionally abusing them in order to win over their favor before inevitably dumping them once he has had sex with them ("The D.E.N.N.I.S. System"). It is strongly hinted at times that Dennis may secretly be a serial killer, though this remains ambiguous as a running gag. In season 10, he is diagnosed with borderline personality disorder, though he frequently denies this and believes himself to be completely rational, and is convinced that he is in complete control of everything and everyone around him, going as far as to label himself a 'golden god'. In the season 12 finale, Dennis reveals to the rest of the gang that he has an infant son, and moves to North Dakota to raise him. He returns to Philadelphia in season 13, supposedly supporting his family from a distance.
Rob McElhenney as Ronald "Mac" McDonald, co-owner and self-proclaimed bouncer of Paddy's Pub. He is Charlie's childhood friend and Dennis's high school friend. The son of a convicted felon who has been in prison for much of Mac's life, he frequently attempts to demonstrate his toughness and refers to himself as the "sheriff of Paddy's". Deeply insecure, Mac constantly seeks the approval of those around him, especially his father, his apathetic and emotionally absent mother, and Dennis, his roommate. He suffers from extreme bouts of body dysmorphia, and has been depicted at various weights throughout the course of the series: prior to the beginning of Season 7, he gained 60 pounds (27 kg) and was diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes, and when he finally returned to a healthy weight in the following season, he admitted he misses being fat, as he believed he had come across as "scary" to people. In Season 13, he is noticeably fit and physically stronger, though it is quickly revealed his motives for attaining his shape was strictly due to his intense desire for acceptance from the rest of the Gang. He often brags about his hand-to-hand combat skills, but typically flees from physical confrontation and is usually depicted as the most cowardly of the gang. Mac is a Roman Catholic, though he often espouses strong Christian fundamentalist opinions, despite his often amoral behavior, such as casual sex with numerous women, including Dennis's and Dee's mother. Though it is frequently insinuated Mac harbors homosexual feelings, he maintained an adamant denial of any such proclivity, much to the gang's annoyance, until he comes out in season 12. Later episodes reveal that Mac is sexually attracted to his best friend, Dennis.
Kaitlin Olson as Deandra "Sweet Dee" Reynolds, waitress and sometimes bartender at Paddy's Pub, as well as Dennis's twin sister and Frank's daughter. Though initially depicted as The Gang's 'the voice of reason' in the debut season, she gradually loses any sense of moral fortitude that she once had, and is frequently shown to be just as prejudiced and depraved as her male friends by the end of season 1, arguably becoming the most petty member of the group, often plotting against others whom she deems more successful than herself in a vain effort to boost her own image. Dee wore a back brace in high school, leaving her with the nickname "The Aluminum Monster", and she is frequently referred to by the gang as a bird. Dee lives alone in an apartment. Though often the butt of the gang's jokes, she frequently involves herself in their schemes, perhaps due to her constant need for approval and attention from her peers. She does not hold any ownership stake in the bar – perhaps due to the gang's various prejudices against her, but also in part to her desire to become a professional actress/comedian (an ambition she consistently fails to achieve due to her debilitating stage fright and her general lack of any apparent talent). In multiple episodes, it is referenced that Dee set her college roommate on fire, and is often portrayed as the most physically violent of the group. Despite expressing outward disgust at her brother's more predatory behavior, later episodes reveal Dee not to be above such behavior herself.
Danny DeVito as Frank Reynolds, legal father of Dennis and Dee Reynolds, and the majority owner of Paddy's Pub soon after his introduction in season 2 onward. Frank is a millionaire and often funds and enables The Gang's worst schemes and impulses, just to feel a sense of youthfulness and energy. He was once a successful businessman with a long history of illegal operations and dealings with sordid characters, but chooses to abandon that life and redeem himself after leaving his "whore wife", Barbara Reynolds. It is revealed at the end of season 2 that Dennis and Dee are products of an affair and not actually his biological children. He has since embraced his "feral" nature and describes himself as "fringe class". Despite his substantial financial resources, he chooses to share a decrepit studio apartment with Charlie, where they sleep together on a pullout couch and have a surprisingly affectionate pseudo-father/son relationship. The two have similar interests, such as playing the inexplicable game of Night Crawlers and foraging naked in sewers for valuables. He always arms himself with at least one loaded handgun and does not hesitate to brandish or even discharge one when provoked, and often snorts cocaine as part of his daily routine.

Production
Charlie Day, Glenn Howerton, and Rob McElhenney first met each other while auditioning for Tuck Everlasting and other projects in New York City and, later, in Los Angeles—they were going up for similar parts, moved to Los Angeles around the same time and even had the same manager Nick Frenkel. Day and Howerton, notably, got to know each other on a car ride back from testing for That '80s Show in late 2001, when Howerton was cast as Corey Howard and Day did not get the part of his best friend. While living in New York, Day had been making comedic home movies with his friends from the Williamstown Theatre Festival—Jimmi Simpson, Nate Mooney, David Hornsby and Logan Marshall-Green, (many of whom would later go on to be involved with Sunny)—which inspired McElhenney and Howerton to want to make short films of their own with him. McElhenney, in particular, had been writing screenplays between jobs and since none of them were picked up, decided to shoot them himself with Howerton, Day and other actor friends. The decision to make their own short films was further influenced by the release of the affordable Panasonic DVX100A digital camera as well as the accessible, low-budget look of The Office (UK) and Curb Your Enthusiasm.It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia grew out of an idea for a short film conceived late one night by McElhenney "where a friend came over to another friend's house to get sugar, and the friend tells him he has cancer, and all the guy can think about is getting his sugar and getting out of there". He wrote the scene down before taking it to Howerton the next day to flesh it out and work on making it comedic. Day was soon roped in and the first script was written, featuring three struggling actors in LA named Charlie, Glenn and Mac, and the ensuing awkwardness around Charlie's cancer diagnosis. The home movies were shot and reshot multiple times, initially with Hornsby playing the Mac character and McElhenney behind the camera as director. It was via this process that McElhenney, Day and Howerton learned the basics of shooting, editing and other aspects of film-making. The three then developed a second "episode" of their home movie series, this time focused on the cringe humor from Mac's sense of shame around his relationship with Carmen, a transgender woman. At this point, it became clear that the home movies had potential as a television series, instead of the short films they were envisioned as originally. Both parts would eventually end up in the episode "Charlie Has Cancer".
The home movie was titled It's Always Sunny on TV after the a-ha song "The Sun Always Shines on T.V.". Howerton had been listening to the album Hunting High and Low (1985) while stretching at a Crunch gym in West Hollywood.This was then developed into a pilot called It's Always Sunny on TV and was shot on a digital camcorder and filmed in the actors' own apartments. They expanded the central cast to four people living in Los Angeles, "a group of best friends who care so little for each other", Howerton said.It was believed the pilot was shot with a budget of just $200, but Day would later comment, "We shot it for nothing... I don't know where this $200 came from... We were a bunch of kids with cameras running around shooting each other and [the] next thing you know, we're eleven years in and we're still doing the show." This pilot was shopped by the actors around various studios, their pitch being simply showing the DVD of the pilot to executives. After viewing the pilot, FX Network ordered the first season. The show was budgeted at $450,000 an episode, less than a third of a network standard, using Panasonic's DVX100 MiniDV prosumer video camera. The original concept had "the gang" being out-of-work actors with the theme song being a cha-cha version of "Hooray for Hollywood"; however there were too many shows at the time with a similar premise. "The network came to us and said, 'We don't want a show about actors,' and we said, 'Fine, let's put it somewhere else,'" McElhenney explained. "I'm from Philly, let's put it in Philly, and we'll make it about a bar, because that's a job where you can have lots of free time and still have income that could explain how these people can sustain themselves." Prior to Kaitlin Olson joining the show, the character Sweet Dee was originally played by Jordan Reid, who at the time was the girlfriend of McElhenney, but was recast after they broke up. The title was later changed to reflect that, in the unaired pilot, the gang had been rewritten as bar owners in Philadelphia, instead of actors in LA.
After the first season, FX executives were worried about the show's low ratings and demanded that changes be made to the cast. "So, John Landgraf, who's the president of FX, he called me in for a meeting and was like, 'Hey, no one's watching the show, but we love it,'" McElhenney recalled. "'We wanna keep it on, but we don't have any money for marketing, and we need to add somebody with some panache that we can hopefully parlay into some public relations story, just so we can get people talking.'" FX began suggesting actors such as Danny DeVito that could boost the show's profile. "It's not that we were reticent to the idea of adding Danny to the show," Howerton recalled, "It's that we were reticent to add a name to the show. You know, because we kinda liked that we were no-names and it was this weird, small thing, you know." Initially, McElhenney refused, saying "No, I just don't think we wanna do that, and they were like, 'Oh OK, well, you know... the show's over.'" Realizing they needed to change the trajectory of the show to please the network, McElhenney, Howerton, and Day became open to adding a new cast member who was familiar to the public. However, McElhenney, Howerton, and Day were hesitant at first since they thought they would "ruin the show", particularly Day. DeVito later joined the cast in the first episode of the second season, playing the father of Dennis and Dee.The show is shot in both Philadelphia and Los Angeles. The exterior of Paddy's Pub is located at the Starkman Building on 544 Mateo Street in Los Angeles.
On April 1, 2016, the series was renewed for a thirteenth and fourteenth season, which matched The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet with the most seasons for a live-action sitcom in American television history. On April 9, 2020, McElhenney announced that writing had begun for the fifteenth season. Filming for the season began in May 2021 and wrapped that October. In January 2023, McElhenney confirmed that filming for the sixteenth season had begun.

Episodes
Broadcast and syndication
The first season ran for seven episodes with the finale airing September 15, 2005. According to McElhenney, word of mouth on the show was good enough for FX to renew it for a second season, which ran from June 29 to August 17, 2006. Reruns of edited first-season episodes began airing on FX's then-parent network, Fox, in June 2006, for a planned three-episode run—"The Gang Finds a Dead Guy," "Gun Fever" (which was renamed "Gun Control") and "Charlie Gets Molested" were shown. The show was not aired on broadcast television again until 2011, when FX began offering it for syndication.The third season ran from September 13 to November 15, 2007. On March 5, 2008, FX renewed It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia for a fourth season. On July 15, 2008, it was reported that FX had ordered 39 additional episodes of the series, produced as seasons five through seven of the show. All five main cast members were secured for the entire scheduled run. The fifth season ran from September 17 to December 10, 2009. On May 31, 2010, Comedy Central began airing reruns. WGN America also began broadcasting the show as part of its fall 2011 schedule.The sixth season ran from September 16 to December 9, 2010, comprising 12 episodes, plus the Christmas special. The seventh season ran from September 15 to December 15, 2011, comprising 13 episodes. On August 6, 2011, FX announced it had picked up the show for an additional two seasons (the eighth and ninth) running through 2013. On March 28, 2013, FX renewed the show for a tenth season, and announced that it would move to FX's new sister network, FXX.In April 2017, Kaitlin Olson announced that It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia would go on an extended hiatus. In an interview with TV Guide, she said, "We ended up pushing our next season a year because we were all busy with separate projects this year. So at the end of this coming shooting season of The Mick, I'll step right into Sunny after that."On October 2, 2017, the show premiered on Vice on TV.The series is available for streaming on Hulu except for the episodes "America's Next Top Paddy's Billboard Model Contest", "Dee Reynolds: Shaping America's Youth", "The Gang Recycles Their Trash", "The Gang Makes Lethal Weapon 6" and "Dee Day", due to scenes involving blackface. The same episodes are missing from Netflix in the UK, Disney+ in Australia, Canada, and Scandinavia, and Star+ in Latin America.

Music
The show uses recurring orchestral production music selections. "We had a music supervisor called Ray Espinola and we said, 'Give us everything you have in a sort of Leave It to Beaver with a big band-swing kind of feel,' and the majority of the songs are from what he sent over," Charlie Day explained. "When you set it against what these characters were doing—which often times can be perceived as quite despicable, or wrong—it really disarmed the audience. It just became our go-to library of songs."The theme song is called "Temptation Sensation" by German composer Heinz Kiessling. Kiessling's work ("On Your Bike" and "Blue Blood") can also be heard during various scene transitions throughout the show, along with other composers and pieces such as Werner Tautz ("Off Broadway"), Joe Brook ("Moonbeam Kiss"), and Karl Grell ("Honey Bunch"). Many of the tracks heard in the series are from Cafe Romantique, an album of easy listening production music collected by Extreme Music, the production music library unit of Sony/ATV Music Publishing. Independent record label Fervor Records has also contributed music to the show. Songs from The Jack Gray Orchestra's album Easy Listening Symph-O-Nette ("Take A Letter Miss Jones," "Golly Gee Whiz," and "Not a Care in the World") and the John Costello III release Giants of Jazz ("Birdcage," "Cotton Club" and "Quintessential") are heard in several episodes.
The soundtrack, featuring most of the music heard on the show, was released in 2010.

Soundtrack track listing
Reception and legacy
Critical reviews and commentary
It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia has received critical acclaim for its humor and the performances of the cast. Emily Nussbaum of The New Yorker praised the show, calling it "not merely the best sitcom on television but one of the most arresting and ambitious current TV series, period." Gillian Flynn of Entertainment Weekly reviewed the first season negatively, commenting, "[I]t is smug enough to think it's breaking ground, but not smart enough to know it isn't." Brian Lowry of Variety gave the first season a positive review, saying it was "invariably clever and occasionally a laugh-out-loud riot, all while lampooning taboo topics." However, later seasons of the show have received favorable ratings on review aggregator Metacritic, receiving 70/100, 78/100 and 85/100 for seasons 4, 5 and 6 respectively. The show has become a cult hit with viewers and is often compared in style to Seinfeld—particularly due to the self-centered nature of its main characters. The Philadelphia Inquirer reviewer Jonathan Storm wrote, "It's like Seinfeld on crack," a quote that became widely used to describe the series, to the point that FX attached the tagline, "It's Seinfeld on crack."In 2014, Entertainment Weekly listed the show at number 7 in the "26 Best Cult TV Shows Ever," with the comment that "it's a great underdog story ... If it sounds too dark for you, consider that there's an episode about making mittens for kittens, and it's adorable." In 2016, a New York Times study of the 50 TV shows with the most Facebook likes found that Sunny was "more popular in college towns (and most popular in Philadelphia)."In 2015, Rolling Stone rated the top 20 greatest and funniest It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia episodes, stating "for 10 seasons, the series had mined comic gold from the execrable behavior of the owners of Paddy's Pub." They claimed the two-part season 4 episode, "Mac and Charlie Die" is the sitcom's greatest episode yet. In 2019, the BBC called the show "the best US sitcom." They praised the show's unique outlook and ability to range from nihilistic humor to genuine heartfelt moments.According to Matt Fowler of IGN, the series "broke new ground" due to its sociopathic depiction of "The Gang". It was also ranked 63rd in IGN's list of the top 100 TV shows of all time.

Awards
Other media
The Nightman Cometh live
In September 2009, the cast took their show live. The "Gang" performed the musical The Nightman Cometh in New York City, Boston, Seattle, San Francisco, Los Angeles, and Philadelphia. Mary Elizabeth Ellis and Artemis Pebdani also appeared in the performance as The Waitress and Artemis. Actress Rhea Perlman (wife of Danny DeVito) assumed the role of Gladys.Creator Rob McElhenney said that Live Nation originally approached the cast about doing the show at 30 cities, but in the end the cast settled on six. Co-developer Glenn Howerton described the show as "essentially an expanded version of the actual episode of "The Nightman Cometh," which was the final episode for season four. There are some added moments, added scenes, added songs, and extended versions of songs that already existed." The performance featured two new songs, and the actors were given more opportunity to improvise thanks to the longer running time. An episode from season five was also previewed before the show.
The Los Angeles performance, filmed at The Troubadour, was included as a bonus feature on the season four DVD box set.

Russian adaptation
A Russian adaptation of It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia premiered in Russia on the television channel TNT on May 12, 2014. This version is titled В Москве всегда солнечно (V Moskve vsegda solnechno, It's Always Sunny in Moscow) and like the original, centers around four friends, who own a bar called "Philadelphia" in Moscow.

Book
A book based upon It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia was released on January 6, 2015, titled The Gang Writes a Self-Help Book: The 7 Secrets of Awakening the Highly Effective Four-Hour Giant, Today.

Podcast
On November 9, 2021, Howerton, Day, and McElhenney started The Always Sunny Podcast, an episode-by-episode-recap of the show, with Megan Ganz as producer. Occasional guest stars include Kaitlin Olson, David Hornsby, Mary Elizabeth Ellis, Michael Naughton, Lin-Manuel Miranda, Cormac Bluestone and Danny DeVito.

Notes