Passage 1:
Bad Teacher
Bad Teacher is a 2011 American comedy film directed by Jake Kasdan from a screenplay by Lee Eisenberg and Gene Stupnitsky. Starring Cameron Diaz, Justin Timberlake, Lucy Punch, John Michael Higgins and Jason Segel, the film tells the story of a lazy  middle school teacher who hates her job, her students, and her co-workers but returns to teaching after her wealthy fiancé dumps her. Bad Teacher was released in the United States on June 24, 2011, by Columbia Pictures. It grossed $216.2 million.

Plot
Elizabeth Halsey is a lazy, immoral, manipulative, gold-digging teacher at John Adams Middle School in Chicago who curses at her students, drinks heavily, smokes marijuana and lets her kids watch movies so she can sleep through class. She plans to quit teaching and marry her wealthy fiancé, but he dumps her when his mother shows him that Elizabeth is only after his money, so she resumes her job. She tries to win over wealthy substitute teacher Scott Delacorte. Her dedicated and enthusiastic colleague Amy Squirrel also pursues him while Elizabeth rejects advances from the school's gym teacher, Russell Gettis.
Elizabeth plans to have her breasts enlarged and becomes more motivated to do so upon learning Scott's ex-girlfriend had large breasts. However, she cannot afford the $9,300 procedure. Elizabeth attempts to raise money for the surgery through the 7th-grade car wash, wearing provocative clothing and manipulating parents to give her money for more school supplies and tutoring, but her efforts are not enough. Amy informs the principal about Elizabeth's embezzlement, but he dismisses her claims when no evidence is provided. Scott also admits that he is attracted to Amy and only likes Elizabeth as a friend.
Discovering that the teacher of the class with the highest state test scores will receive a $5,700 bonus, Elizabeth decides to change her style of teaching, forcing the class to intensely study To Kill a Mockingbird for the test. However, since it is late in the school year, combined with her unorthodox teaching methods, the students score low on the book quizzes, further frustrating her. Meanwhile, she befriends Russell, as Amy and Scott start dating.
Elizabeth plans to steal the state test answers by impersonating a journalist and seducing Carl Halabi, a state professor in charge of creating and distributing the exams. She convinces Carl to go into his office to have sex, but drugs him and steals the answer key. A month later Elizabeth wins the bonus, completing her needed funds, and books her breast enlargement.
When Elizabeth learns that Amy and Scott are chaperoning an upcoming field trip, she smears an apple with poison ivy and leaves it for Amy, who ends up with blisters covering her face and cannot go. On the trip, Elizabeth seduces Scott. They dry hump and Elizabeth secretly leaves Amy a message through Scott's phone, recording all the action. However, Scott's ever-changing ideals disappoint Elizabeth. After her student Garrett is taunted by his classmates for confessing to an unrequited attraction to a superficial girl in the class named Chase, Elizabeth consoles him and helps make him popular, which prompts her to begin reflecting on her own superficial ways.
Back at the school, Amy switches Elizabeth's desk with her own to trick the janitor into unlocking Elizabeth's sealed drawer. The evidence Amy finds leads her to suspect Elizabeth cheated on the state exam. Amy informs the principal and gets Carl to testify against her. However, Elizabeth took embarrassing photos of Carl while he was drugged and uses them to blackmail him to say she is innocent. Having been informed that her desk was switched, Elizabeth states that teachers in the school use drugs. When the police bring a sniffer dog to search the school, they find Elizabeth's mini liquor bottles, marijuana and OxyContin pills in Amy's classroom, in Elizabeth's desk, leading to Amy getting arrested and transferred to another school by the superintendent. Scott asks Elizabeth to start over, but she rejects him in favor of Russell, having learned they have a lot in common.
When the new school year starts, Elizabeth has reformed. She is kinder to her co-workers, and has started a relationship with Russell, and did not get her breasts enlarged because she feels that it is unnecessary. Elizabeth also has a new position as the new guidance counselor.

Cast
Production
Bad Teacher is directed by Jake Kasdan based on a screenplay by Lee Eisenberg and Gene Stupnitsky. Columbia Pictures purchased Eisenberg and Stupnitsky's spec script in August 2008. In May 2009, Kasdan was hired to direct Bad Teacher. The following December, Cameron Diaz was cast in the film's lead role. Justin Timberlake was cast opposite Diaz in March 2010, and filming began later in the month.

Release
Box office
The film grossed $100.3 million in the U.S. and Canada, while its worldwide total stands at $216.2 million.The film was released in North America on June 20, 2011, in 3,049 theaters. It took in $12,243,987—$4,016 per theater—in its opening day, and grossed a total of $31,603,106 in its opening weekend, finishing second at the box office, behind Cars 2. In Germany, the film reached No. 1 on the country's Cinema Charts in its opening week after 496,000 people saw the film. This caused Kung Fu Panda 2, which reached No. 1 the week before, to fall to No. 2.

Critical response
On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 45% based on 192 reviews and a rating average of 5.3/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "In spite of a promising concept and a charmingly brazen performance from Cameron Diaz, Bad Teacher is never as funny as it should be." Metacritic gave the film a score of 47 out of 100 based on 38 critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews". CinemaScore polls reported that moviegoers gave the film an average grade of "B+" on an A+ to F scale.

Accolades
Home media
Bad Teacher was released on DVD, Blu-ray, and a combo pack on October 18, 2011.

Possible sequel and TV series
On June 20, 2013, Sony announced that it was working on Bad Teacher 2. The company hired Justin Malen to write the sequel. Lee Eisenberg and Gene Stupnitsky, who wrote the first film, will return as producers. A release from Sony studios said the project is "being developed for Cameron Diaz to star in the film, but no deal is yet set with the actress." Jake Kasdan will again be the director.On May 23, 2013, CBS announced a TV series based on the movie, with CBS Studios and Sony Pictures Television as production partners. The show premiered on April 24, 2014, in the 9:30pm time slot. Ari Graynor played the Cameron Diaz role, while Sara Gilbert, Ryan Hansen, David Alan Grier, Kristin Davis and Sara Rodier also appeared. On May 10, 2014, CBS canceled Bad Teacher after airing only three episodes. Bad Teacher last aired during the spring TV season on May 22, 2014. However, in July 2014, CBS burned off the remaining unseen episodes by showing two episodes on Saturday nights.
Passage 2:
Pilot (New Girl)
"Pilot" is the first episode of the first season of New Girl. The episode was written by Elizabeth Meriwether, and directed by Jake Kasdan. The episode first aired on Fox in the United States on September 20, 2011 to positive reviews.

Plot
The show begins with Jessica "Jess" Day talking to her friend Cece, a model, about seducing her boyfriend by coming home early and stripping down for him. While talking to Cece on the phone, we hear that she is naked in the back of the cab wearing a big trench coat. When asked what her stripper name will be, she replies 'Rebecca Johnson', then 'Two Boobs Johnson', and later 'Tiger Boobs'. Jess comes home and her boyfriend Spencer is shocked to see her there, but he is cheating on her with another woman who comes out of the bedroom while Jess is attempting a striptease with pillows and bows. While doing a mediocre job on seducing him (taking off the trench coat and doing "sexy stuff' to various objects), the girl comes out and Jess is shocked. Now she lives with three single men (whom she found on Craigslist and thought they were women) called Nick, Schmidt and Coach in an apartment. During most of the week she lives there, she begins to have mood swings about her break up such as watching Dirty Dancing. Her roommates are sick of it and invite her to a bar to find a man on the rebound. She ends up on a date but her date bails on her and he goes to the same party as her roommates are at. They all go to the restaurant and cheer Jess up by singing "(I've Had) The Time of My Life" proving that they do care about her as a friend.

Production
The episode was written by Elizabeth Meriwether, and directed by Jake Kasdan. The episode first aired on Fox in the United States on September 20, 2011. Speaking of the show Zooey Deschanel claimed that her character in New Girl resembles a younger version of herself. She said "I think Jess as a person, and the way that her personality is, has some of myself and especially some of my younger self," she suggested. "[She resembles] my 13-year-old self." Deschanel added that Jess will explore her lost youth after she is dumped by her long-term boyfriend. "I have to find a new support system, so I'm basically living my 20s as I approach my 30s," she explained.

Reception
When the episode was first broadcast it pulled in more viewers than its lead in, the Fox comedy-drama Glee for the episode "The Purple Piano Project", which brought in 8.9m (5.4) in the 8:00 p.m. hour, after which New Girl launched with 10.1m (4.7).

Accolades
Jake Kasdan was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series for this episode.
Passage 3:
The Piano Tuner of Earthquakes
The Piano Tuner of Earthquakes is a 2005 animated drama film by the Brothers Quay, featuring Amira Casar, Gottfried John, Assumpta Serna and Cesar Sarachu. It was the second feature-length film by the Brothers Quay and their first film in over ten years.

Plot
A 19th-century opera singer is murdered on-stage shortly before her forthcoming wedding. Soon after being slain by the nefarious Dr. Emmanuel Droz during a live performance, Malvina van Stille is spirited away to the inventor's remote villa to be reanimated and forced to play the lead in a grim production staged to recreate her abduction. As the time for the performance draws near, piano tuner of earthquakes Felisberto sets out to activate the seven essential automata who dot the dreaded doctor's landscape and make sure all the essential elements are in place. Once again instilled with life after her brief stay in the afterworld, amnesiac Malvina is soon drawn to the mysterious Felisberto as a result of his uncanny resemblance to her one-time fiancé Adolfo.

See also
List of stop-motion films

External links
The Piano Tuner of Earthquakes at Metacritic
The Piano Tuner of Earthquakes at Rotten Tomatoes
The Piano Tuner of Earthquakes' at MovieScore Media
The Piano Tuner of Earthquakes at IMDb
The Piano Tuner of Earthquakes at AllMovie
Catsoulis, Jeannette (17 November 2006). "Film in Review: The Piano Tuner of Earthquakes". The New York Times. Retrieved 1 January 2018.
Passage 4:
Sex Tape (film)
Sex Tape is a 2014 American sex comedy film directed by Jake Kasdan and distributed by Sony Pictures Releasing. It was written by Jason Segel, Nicholas Stoller, and Kate Angelo and stars Segel, Cameron Diaz, Rob Corddry, Ellie Kemper, and Rob Lowe. Its story follows a married couple who make a sex tape to spice up their relationship only to wake up the next morning to find that it has gone missing. This sparks a frantic search in an attempt to find it.
The film was produced by Columbia Pictures and was released on July 18, 2014. It grossed $14.6 million in its opening weekend and $126.1 million worldwide, against a budget of $40 million. It received generally negative reviews.

Plot
Jay and Annie Hargrove are a married couple who used to have sex at every opportunity. Now, after having two kids, they rarely are intimate. 
Getting her mother to keep the kids overnight, the couple try roleplaying and trying having sex in less orthodox parts of the house, but then Jay struggles to get an erection. So, Annie suggests making a sex tape and they film themselves having sex in every position listed in The Joy of Sex on his tablet.
When done, Annie asks Jay to delete the recording to be safe, but an application on the tablet ends up instead inadvertently synchronizing the video to several iPads he had given away over time. After failing to get it out of the cloud, they set out to get back all of the gifted iPads, leading to a series of awkward encounters and close calls.
The couple relatively easily manage to delete the video on both her mother's and their son's tablets. Their close friends, Robbie and Tess, invite them in and then Annie and Jay end up having to explain themselves. Their friends, without any real plans, tag along as they seek the tablets. 
Their most challenging recovery of a tablet is from the house of Annie's potential boss, Hank Rosenbaum. Under the guise of seeking money for a charity, Annie distracts him while Jay searches the house for the tablet. In the process, she tries cocaine for the first time and Jay battles with Hank's German shepherd. 
In the end, Robbie and Tess are the ones who get it back.
After collecting the iPads and deleting the videos, their friend's son, Howard, threatens to upload a copy of their sex tape to YouPorn unless they give him $25,000. After failing to get the money, they break into the YouPorn headquarters and begin to destroy their web servers. 
The couple's plan is quickly thwarted when an alarm sounds. The owner, his guards and his wife confront them and threaten to call the police. However, after explaining it was to protect their family, their two young  children come out. The owner's wife convinces him to take pity on them, so he agrees not to do so in exchange for $15,000 to cover the damage. Removing their video, he explains that all they had to do to have a video removed was send him an e-mail request to do so.
After they have deleted all videos, Howard comes over to the house and gives Jay the only remaining copy of the video on a USB flash drive. This is in exchange for being allowed to hang out with their son, Clive, since he is his only friend.
As the film comes to a close, Jay and Annie decide to watch the video once themselves. Afterwards, they take the USB flash drive and go outside to smash it with a hammer, blend it, burn it with fire, and bury the remains.

Cast
Production
Development
Sony Pictures acquired the script in June 2011, which was based on an original story created by Kate Angelo. Nicholas Stoller was in early talks to direct but eventually backed out with Jake Kasdan instead directing the picture.  Before Diaz signed on, Reese Witherspoon, Amy Adams, Emily Blunt, Rose Byrne, and Jennifer Garner were all considered for the female lead.Principal photography began on September 12, 2013, in Newton, Massachusetts. Hank's house is situated in the western Greater Boston suburb of Weston.

Release
On March 17, 2014, the first poster and some photos from the film were released, followed by a red band trailer on April 2, 2014, and a green band trailer on April 24, 2014. On June 5, Sony UK released an international trailer of the film.On May 30, 2014, the film's release date was pushed up from July 25, 2014 to July 18.On June 19, a final red band trailer was released, which was attached theatrically with the Melissa McCarthy comedy Tammy.

Indian censorship
The Examining Committee of the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) in India rejected its first version of the film. After some changes, they accepted the film and it was released in the country on August 29, 2014.

Box office
At the end of its box office run, Sex Tape earned a gross of $38.5 million in the US and Canada and $87.5 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $126.1 million against a budget of $40 million.The film was released in 2,457 theaters in North America and earned $1.1 million in its opening Thursday evening showings. In its opening weekend, the film grossed $14.6 million, finishing in fourth behind Dawn of the Planet of the Apes ($36.2 million), as well as newcomers The Purge: Anarchy ($29.8 million) and Planes: Fire & Rescue ($17.5 million).The film topped the UK box office in its opening weekend with a gross of £1.43 million. It dropped to number 4 in its second week grossing £673,478. The film opened at #1 in markets like Bulgaria, Netherlands, Slovenia in their respective opening weekend. The biggest market in other territories being Germany, United Kingdom, Australia, where the film earned a gross of $12.14 million, $7.14 million and $6.9 million respectively.

Critical response
Rotten Tomatoes, a review aggregator, reports that 16% of 157 surveyed reviews gave the film a positive review; the average rating is 4.1/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "With neither the conviction to embrace its smutty premise nor enough laughs to function as a worthwhile rom-com, the flaccid Sex Tape suffers from cinematic impotence." On Metacritic, the film has a score of 36 out of 100 based on 36 critics, indicating "generally unfavorable reviews". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "C+" on an A+ to F scale.Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian called the film "a timely naughty-but-nice romcom with too few laughs", giving it two out of five stars.

Accolades
See also
Passage 5:
Jake Kasdan
Jacob Kasdan (born October 28, 1974) is an American filmmaker and actor. He is best known for directing Walk Hard (2007), Bad Teacher (2011), Sex Tape (2014), Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle (2017) and Jumanji: The Next Level (2019).

Early life
Kasdan was born and raised in a Jewish family, with little religious education in Detroit, Michigan, the son of Meg (née Goldman), a writer, and writer-director Lawrence Kasdan. His younger brother, Jon Kasdan, also works in the film and television industry as an actor and writer.

Career
Kasdan has directed seven theatrical films: Zero Effect (1998), Orange County (2002), The TV Set (2006), Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story (2007), Bad Teacher (2011), Sex Tape (2014), Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle (2017) and Jumanji: The Next Level (2019). He has also worked in television, most notably with Judd Apatow, as a consulting producer and director on Freaks and Geeks and as a director on Undeclared. He has also directed numerous stage productions. He is attached to direct John Grisham novel Calico Joe to a family film adaptation.
In 2008, Kasdan received his first Golden Globe nomination for Walk Hard in the Best Original Song category (shared with John C. Reilly, Judd Apatow, and Marshall Crenshaw), but lost to "Guaranteed" from Into the Wild (written by Eddie Vedder).
As a child, he made several appearances in his father's movies such as The Big Chill and Silverado (in the former he is an autograph seeker at a funeral and in the latter a stable boy).
After the success of New Girl, Kasdan announced that on July 11, 2012, that he had signed a deal with 20th Century Fox Television, through The Detective Agency, to pursue own projects.In February 2015, Fox announced it had greenlit a pilot for the comedy The Grinder to be directed by Kasdan and starring Rob Lowe.On March 26, 2019, The Detective Agency's producing partners Jake Kasdan and Melvin Mar reupped, and signed a new overall deal at 20th Century Fox Television.In October 2021, it was announced that Disney+ had given a series order to a television adaptation of graphic novel, American Born Chinese. It will be produced by 20th Century Television with Kelvin Yu and Charles Yu as writers and executive producers, Marvin Mar and Kasdan as executive producers, and Destin Daniel Cretton as director and executive producer. Most recently, he served as executive producer of the workplace comedy pilot XYZ at ABC.

Personal life
Kasdan is married to singer-songwriter Inara George of The Bird and the Bee. They have three children, including twins.

Filmography
Films
Acting credits

Soundtrack credits

Other credits

Television and web
Acting credits

Music video
Believe by Shawn Mendes (2015)

Awards
Passage 6:
Brothers Quay
Stephen and Timothy Quay ( KWAY; born June 17, 1947) are American identical twin brothers and stop-motion animators who are better known as the Brothers Quay or Quay Brothers. They received the 1998 Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Set Design for their work on the play The Chairs.

Careers
The Quay Brothers reside and work in England, having moved there in 1969 to study at the Royal College of Art, London after studying illustration (Timothy) and film (Stephen) at the Philadelphia College of Art, now the University of the Arts in Philadelphia. In England they made their first short films, which no longer exist after the only prints were irreparably damaged. They spent some time in the Netherlands in the 1970s and then returned to England, where they teamed up with another Royal College student, Keith Griffiths, who produced all of their films. In 1980 the trio formed Koninck Studios, which is currently based in Southwark, south London.

Style
The Brothers' works from 1979 to the present show a wide range of often esoteric influences, starting with the Polish animators Walerian Borowczyk and Jan Lenica and continuing with the writers Franz Kafka, Bruno Schulz, Robert Walser and Michel de Ghelderode, puppeteers Wladyslaw Starewicz and Czech Richard Teschner and Czech composers Leoš Janáček, Zdeněk Liška and Polish Leszek Jankowski, the last of whom has created many original scores for their work. Czech animator Jan Švankmajer, for whom they named one of their films (The Cabinet of Jan Svankmajer), is also frequently cited as a major influence, but they actually discovered his work relatively late, in 1983, by which time their characteristic style and preoccupations had been fully formed. In a panel discussion with Daniel Bird and Andrzej Klimowski at the Aurora festival in Norwich, they emphasized that a more significant influence on their work was Walerian Borowczyk, who made both animation shorts and live-action features.
Most of their animation films feature puppets made of doll parts and other organic and inorganic materials, often partially disassembled, in a dark, moody atmosphere. Perhaps their best known work is Street of Crocodiles (1986), based on the short story of the same name by the Polish author and artist Bruno Schulz. This short film was selected by director and animator Terry Gilliam as one of the ten best animated films of all time, and critic Jonathan Romney included it on his list of the ten best films in any medium (for Sight and Sound's critics' poll of 2002). They have made two full-length live action films: Institute Benjamenta (1996), or This Dream People Call Human Life, produced by Keith Griffiths and Janine Marmot, and The Piano Tuner Of Earthquakes (2005), produced by Keith Griffiths. They also directed an animated sequence in the film Frida (2002).
With very few exceptions, their films have no meaningful spoken dialogue (most have no spoken content at all, while some, such as The Comb (From the Museums of Sleep) (1990) include multilingual background gibberish that is not intended to be coherently understood). Accordingly, their films are highly reliant on their music scores, of which many have been written especially for them by the Polish composer Leszek Jankowski. In 2000, they contributed a short film to the BBC's Sound On Film series in which they visualised a 20-minute piece by the avant-garde composer Karlheinz Stockhausen. Whenever possible, the Quay Brothers prefer to work with pre-recorded music, though Gary Tarn's score for The Phantom Museum had to be added afterwards when it became impossible to license music by the Czech composer Zdeněk Liška.They have created music videos for His Name Is Alive ("Are We Still Married", "Can't Go Wrong Without You"), Michael Penn ("Long Way Down (Look What the Cat Drug In)") and 16 Horsepower ("Black Soul Choir"). Their style has been mimicked to the point that audiences mistakenly believed that the Quay Brothers were responsible for several music videos for Tool but those videos were created by Fred Stuhr and member Adam Jones, whose work is influenced by the Quay Brothers. Although they worked on Peter Gabriel's seminal video "Sledgehammer" (1986) as animators, this was directed by Stephen R. Johnson and the Quay Brothers in order to support their personal projects.
Before turning to film, the Quay Brothers worked as professional illustrators. The first edition of Anthony Burgess' novel The Clockwork Testament, or Enderby's End, included their drawings before the start of each chapter. Nearly three decades before directly collaborating with Stockhausen, they designed the cover of the book Stockhausen: Conversations with the Composer (ed. Jonathan Cott, Simon & Schuster, 1973). After designing book covers for Gothic and science fiction books while in Philadelphia, the Quay Brothers have created suggestive designs for a variety of publications that seem to reflect not only their own interests in particular authors, covers for Italo Calvino, Louis-Ferdinand Céline or Mark le Fanu's study of the films of Andrei Tarkovsky, but also in themes and motifs that these authors develop. Literary texts are inspirational sources for almost all of their film projects, whether they serve as a point of departure for their own ideas or as a textual basis for filmic scenarios, and not as scripts or screenplays. The prowess in illustration and calligraphy seeps increasingly into many formal elements in their later films, evident as graphic embellishment in the set decoration, or their particular use of patterns in the puppets' costume design. Titles, intertitles and credits appear in a variety of handwritten styles.
In an interview with Robert K. Elder for his book The Best Film You've Never Seen, the Quay Brothers discuss their creative process, stating that “If [a] project does eventually get approval, then we almost invariably chuck [the] original proposal out, not out of any cavalierness, but simply because we know that, as we start building the decors and the puppets, the script begins to grow and evolve very organically.”The critical success of Street of Crocodiles gave the Quay Brothers artistic freedom to explore a shift in subject matter, in part originating in literary and poetic sources that led to exploration of new aesthetic forms, but also because they were able to make extensive experiments in technique, both with cameras and on large stage sets. The Quay Brothers are best known for their puppet and feature-length films. Less known, but no less incisive in their creative development, is their intense engagement in stage design for opera, ballet and theatre: since 1988, the Quay Brothers have created sets and projections for performing arts productions on international stages. Their work at miniature scale has translated into large-scale designs for the theatre and opera productions of director Richard Jones: Prokofiev's The Love for Three Oranges; Feydeau's "A Flea in Her Ear"; Tchaikovsky's Mazeppa; and Molière's "Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme". Their set design for a revival of Ionesco's "The Chairs" was nominated for a Tony Award in 1998. The Quay Brothers' excursion into feature films and live-action dance films were not an indication of a move away from animation and the literature that inspires them—on the contrary, the film explores the potential which slumbers in the combination of these cinematic techniques. Their puppet animation set designs have been curated as an internationally touring exhibition called "Dormitorium" which toured the east coast of the United States in 2009, including the originating venue of the Rosenwald-Wolf Gallery at the University of the Arts, Philadelphia, followed by Parsons The New School of Design, New York, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA and Cornell University, Ithaca, NY.
The Quay Brothers are strongly influenced by literature and the written word - from Eastern-European poetry to South American magic realism.

Lewis Carroll (Alice in Not So Wonderland)
Emma Hauck (In Absentia)
Felisberto Hernández (Unmistaken Hands: Ex Voto F.H)
Franz Kafka (The Metamorphosis)
Stanisław Lem (Maska)
Rainer Maria Rilke (Eurydice: She, So Beloved)
Bruno Schulz (Street of Crocodiles)
Robert Walser (The Comb, Institute Benjamenta)Music is an essential part of the Quay Brothers' films, as they also find inspiration in Eastern European classical music. The Quay Brothers' films feature music by the following composers:

Stefan Cichoński (Nocturna Artificialia)
Trevor Duncan (Piano Tuner of Earthquakes)
Leoš Janáček (Leoš Janáček: Intimate Excursions, The Sandman, The Metamorphosis)
Lech Jankowski (Street of Crocodiles, Rehearsals for Extinct Anatomies, Ex-Voto, The Comb, Institute Benjamenta, De Artificiali Perspectiva, or Anamorphosis)
Zygmunt Konieczny (Nocturna Artificialia)
György Kurtag (The Sandman)
Zdeněk Liška (The Cabinet of Jan Švankmajer, The Phantom Museum)
Steve Martland (Songs for Dead Children)
Claudio Monteverdi (Eurydice: She, So Beloved)
Timothy Nelson (Wonderwood, Through The Weeping Glass, Unmistaken Hands: Ex Voto F.H., Vade mecum)
Arvo Pärt (Duet)
Krzysztof Penderecki (Ein Brudermord, Inventorium of Traces, Maska)
Sergei Prokofiev (Alice in Not So Wonderland)
Christopher Slaski (Piano Tuner of Earthquakes)
Karlheinz Stockhausen (In Absentia)
Igor Stravinski (Igor, The Paris Years Chez Pleyel 1920-1929)
Gary Tarn (The Phantom Museum, Tempus Fugit)
Antonio Vivaldi (Piano Tuner of Earthquakes)

Legacy
In 2010 The College of Physicians of Philadelphia received a Philadelphia Exhibitions Initiative grant through The Pew Center for Arts & Heritage for an exhibitions project that would include a new work by the Quay Brothers. The Quay Brothers produced a new film entitled Through the Weeping Glass: On the Consolations of Life Everlasting (Limbos & Afterbreezes in the Mütter Museum). The film is their first made in the United States, produced by Edward Waisnis through his company PRO BONO films in collaboration with Atelier Koninck QBFZ, London and it focuses on the history and collections of the College's famed Mütter Museum. The film, with narration by Derek Jacobi and a musical score by Timothy Nelson, was shot on location in Philadelphia during the summer of 2010 and premiered in autumn 2011, with symposia, at The College of Physicians of Philadelphia in Pennsylvania; New York City's Museum of Modern Art; and the Museum of Jurassic Technology in Los Angeles. The film was subsequently shown at the Wellcome Collection, London, England; the CFC Worldwide Short Film Festival in Toronto, Canada; The Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston, MA; The Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, TX; and at the Wexner Center of the Arts at Ohio State University, Columbus, OH. It was reviewed in both Sight & Sound and Film Comment magazines. The 35mm negative and print were selected for inclusion in the film collection of the Museum of Modern Art.
The Quay Brothers were commissioned by Leeds Canvas, a group of eight cultural organisations in Leeds, UK, to create in May 2012 a major citywide art installation, OverWorlds & UnderWorlds. The commission was one of twelve 'Artists Taking the Lead' projects around the UK, Arts Council England's flagship contribution to the London 2012 Cultural Olympiad. Later in the same year, the Quay Brothers were the subject of a grand retrospective exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art, New York entitled Quay Brothers: On Deciphering the Pharmacist's Prescription for Lip-Reading Puppets which featured work spanning their entire career, tracing back as early as childhood, with much of the material shown for the first time. Organized by Ron Magliozzi, Associate Curator of MoMA's Film Department, the exhibition ran from August 12, 2012 through January 7, 2013 and included a full coinciding film program.In 2013, the Quay Brothers were recipients of a residency program award at the Wexner Center of the Arts, Columbus, Ohio. The project they undertook coinciding with this residency was a puppet animation film entitled: Unmistaken Hands: Ex Voto F.H.–that revolves around the work and life of Uruguyan writer Felisberto Hernández, often referred to as the father of ‘magic realism’, and for whose work the Quay Brothers share an affinity. The production was overseen by Edward Waisnis through PRO BONO films, in collaboration with Atelier Koninck QBFZ, and the support of the Fundación Felisberto Hernández, and features a score composed by Timothy Nelson, who has worked with the Quay Brothers previously. As of January 2014, the Quay Brothers have been in production with The Digital Toy Company on a joint film/video-game project entitled Asleep: I Hear My Name.The Quay Brothers' work was exhibited in two further major international exhibitions in 2013/2014. The first, The Quay Brothers' Universum was the Quay Brothers' first 'solo' exhibition in Europe and took place at the EYE Film Institute Netherlands, Amsterdam from December 15, 2013 - March 9, 2014. The second, Metamorfosis. Visiones Fantásticas de Starewitch, Švankmajer y Los Hermanos Quay was held at the Centre de Cultura Contemporània de Barcelona, Barcelona (25 March - 7 September 2014) and La Casa Encendida (2 October 2014 - 11 January 2015), Madrid, respectively. The exhibition was curated by Spanish animation curator, programmer and historian Carolina López Caballero and was a major exploration of the art of stop motion animation, placing the Quay Brothers' work alongside Russian-born puppet animation godfather Ladislas Starewitch and Czech surrealist master Jan Švankmajer.
Hollywood director Christopher Nolan revealed himself to have been an admirer of the Quay Brothers' work since coming across their films late at night when they were originally screened on Channel 4 in the UK. In 2015 Nolan curated a theatrical tour showcasing newly restored 35mm prints of the Quay's films In Absentia, The Comb and Street of Crocodiles. The programme also included the eight-minute 'documentary' Quay (2015) which Nolan directed as an homage to the twins. The programme and Nolan's short received critical acclaim, with Indiewire writing in their review that the Quay Brothers "will undoubtedly have hundreds, if not thousands more fans because of Nolan, and for that The Quay Brothers in 35mm will always be one of latter's most important contributions to cinema".Directly after the launch of the 35mm programme in the states, the Quay Brothers were celebrated at the Bristol Festival of Puppetry, UK (August - September 2015). A retrospective of their work was curated by animation director Joseph Wallace, who also hosted a conversation with the Quay Brothers about the relationship between their animation and stage work at Watershed (Bristol). Wallace, along with Puppet Place(the organisation behind the festival), also commissioned the Quay Brothers to create an installation which ran for the duration of the festival and was displayed in a disused control room on a bridge in the centre of Bristol entitled: Homage To The Framed Perspective of an Abridged Conversation Between the Painters Sassetta & Uccello and the Mystical Occurrence that Happened Before Your Arrival..
The Quay Brothers collaborated with Louis Andriessen in 2016 and designed decors for his opera Theatre of The World which premiered at the Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles  before playing at the Carré Theatre in Amsterdam as part of the Holland Festival. As well as the design, the Quay Brothers also produced animated projections which accompanied the performance.
In October 2016 a two disk Blu-ray collection of the Quay Brothers films dating 1979-2013 entitled "Inner Sanctums" was released by the British Film Institute. The edition includes 24 of the Quay Brothers' short films, of which three are UK premieres and five are world premieres, along with a disk of special features including footnotes, interviews, rare behind the scenes films and Christopher Nolan's short portrait of the brothers; Quay (2015).

Awards and honours
Filmography
Feature films

Institute Benjamenta, or This Dream People Call Human Life (1995)
The Piano Tuner of Earthquakes (2005)Short films

Nocturne Artificialia: Those Who Desire Without End (1979)
Rain Dance (1980) – a short film for Sesame Street 
Punch And Judy: Tragical Comedy or Comical Tragedy (1980)
Ein Brudermord (1980)
The Eternal Day of Michel de Ghelderode (1981)
Igor, The Paris Years Chez Pleyel (1983)
Leoš Janáček: Intimate Excursions (1983) 
The Cabinet of Jan Svankmajer (1984)
The Epic of Gilgamesh, or This Unnameable Little Broom (1985) Full title: Little Songs of the Chief Officer of Hunar Louse, or This Unnameable Little Broom, being a Largely Disguised Reduction of the Epic of Gilgamesh
Street of Crocodiles (1986)
Rehearsals For Extinct Anatomies (1988)
Stille Nacht I: Dramolet (1988)
Ex-Voto (1989)
The Comb (From The Museums Of Sleep) (1990)
De Artificiali Perspectiva, or Anamorphosis (1991)
The Calligrapher (1991) – an ident commissioned by BBC2 which was later rejected and never broadcast 
Stille Nacht II: Are We Still Married? (1991)
Stille Nacht III: Tales From Vienna Woods (1992)
Stille Nacht IV: Can't Go Wrong Without You (1993)
The Summit (1995)
Duet (2000)
The Sandman (2000)
In Absentia (2000)
Stille Nacht V: Dog Door (2001)
Frida (2002) - animated contribution (dir: Julie Taymor)
Songs For Dead Children (2003)
The Phantom Museum: Random Forays Into the Vaults of Sir Henry Wellcome's Medical Collection (2003)
Alice in Not So Wonderland (2007)
Eurydice: She, So Beloved (2007)
Inventorium of Traces (2009)
Maska (2010)
Bartók Béla: Sonata for Solo Violin (2011)
Through the Weeping Glass: On the Consolations of Life Everlasting (Limbos & Afterbreezes in the Mütter Museum) (2011)
The Metamorphosis (2012)
Unmistaken Hands: Ex Voto F.H. (2013)
The Doll's Breath (2019)
Vade mecum (2020)
11 Preliminary Orbits Around Planet Lem (2021)Music videos

Sledgehammer - Peter Gabriel (1986) - animated contribution (dir: Stephen R. Johnson)
Stille Nacht II: Are We Still Married? - His Name is Alive (1991)
Long Way Down (Look What The Cat Drug In) - Michael Penn (1992)
Stille Nacht IV: Can't Go Wrong Without You - His Name is Alive (1993)
"Black Soul Choir - 16 Horsepower (1996)
Stille Nacht V: Dog Door - Sparklehorse (2001)
Ubu Roi - Pere Ubu (2008) - projected music video for live show
Muslingauze - DJ Spooky (2008-2010)
Stille Nacht V: Starman - Sabisha (2008-2010)Commercials

The Repeat Prescription Report (2017) Pharmacy2U
Tempus Fugit (2016) Slow Time, Leffe
Wonderwood (2010) Comme des Garçons
Kinoteka, 1st Polsk Filmfestival ident (2009) Polish Institute, London
Mistletoe Kisses (2007) Galaxy, Mars, Inc.
NHL, Laundromat (2001) Fox Sports
NHL, Library (2001) Fox Sports
Magnets (2001) Chili's
Rice Krispies Treats - Float (2000) Kellogg's
Pitney Chairs (1999) Pitney
Northern Rock (1999) Northern Rock
Mars Celebration (1998) Mars, Inc.
Fox and Crow (1998) Badoit
Lion and Zebra (1998) Badoit
Weed Families (1998) Roundup
Weeds (1998) Roundup
Doritos idents (1997) Frito-Lay
The Wooden Box That Collapses (title sequence) (1997) The End
Lockets Metallica (1996) Mars, Inc.
Swallow (1996) Murphy's Irish Stout
Warriors (1996) Murphy's Irish Stout
Brainfreeze (1995) 7-Eleven Slurpee
Blue Cross (1995) Blue Cross Blue Shield Association.
Dolls (1994) The Partnership for a Drug Free America
Trees (1993) Coca-Cola
Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme (title sequence) (1993) The End
Fun Touch (1989) Nikon
Zenith (1988) MTV
MTV ident (1988) MTV
BFI ident (1998) British Film Institute
Skips (1988) K.P. Skips
Dulux (1987) Dulux
Walkers Crisps (1986) Walkers
Honeywell (1986) Honeywell Computers Appearances

The Falls (1980)

Opera, ballet and stage
The Birthday Party (2018) By Harold Pinter, directed by Ian Rickson at the Harold Pinter Theatre, London.
Theatre of the World (2016) By Louis Andriessen, directed by Pierre Audi. Dutch National Opera, Amsterdam/Holland Festival, Amsterdam.
An Evening at the Talk House (2015) By Wallace Shawn, directed by Ian Rickson at the National Theatre, London.
Overworlds & Underworlds (2012) A Leeds Canvas initiative for the 2012 Cultural Olympiad, Leeds.
I looked back when I reached halfway (2011) Collaboration with violinist Alina Ibragimova on Béla Bartók's Sonata for Violin (1944). Chetham's School of Music/Manchester International Festival, Manchester; Wilton's Music Hall, London.
Bring Me the Head of Ubu Roi (2008) Projections for Pere Ubu. Queen Elizabeth Hall, London.
Paul Bunyan (2007) By Benjamin Britten, directed by Nicholas Broadhurst. Theater am Kornmarkt Bregenz/Theater Luzern.
Pinocchio (2006) By Martin Ward, choreographed and directed by Will Tuckett. Royal Opera House, London.
The Cricket Recovers (2005) By Richard Ayres, directed by Nicholas Broadhurst. Aldeburgh Festival, Suffolk, and Almeida Opera, London.
The Anatomy of a Storyteller (2004) Ballet by Kim Brandstrup. Royal Opera House, London.
Death and Resurrection (2003) By J. S. Bach and Steve Martland, conducted by Sir John Eliot Gardiner, Steve Martland. Four short films illustrating Martland's Street Songs. Tate Modern and St. Paul's Cathedral, London.
The Wind in the Willows (2002) Ballet by Will Tuckett. Royal Opera House, London.
Queen of Spades (2001) Ballet by Kim Brandstrup. Les Grands Ballets Canadiens, Montreal.
Baa-Laamsfest (1999) By Olga Neuwirth, directed by Nicholas Broadhurst. Wiener Festwochen, Vienna.
The Chairs (1997) By Eugène Ionesco, directed by Simon McBurney. Theatre de Complicité and Royal Court, London and John Golden Theater, New York. (The Quay Brothers won the 1998 Drama Desk Award for Best Design and were also nominated for a Tony award)
Cupid & Psyche (1997) Ballet by Kim Brandstrup. Royal Danish Ballet, Copenhagen.
The Hour We Knew Nothing of Each Other (1996) By Peter Handke. Theater ballet directed by Kim Brandstrup. Malmo Dramatiska Theatre, Sweden.
A Midsummer Night’s Dream (1996) By William Shakespeare, directed by Jonathan Miller. Almeida Theatre, London.
Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme (1992) By Molière, directed by Richard Jones. Royal National Theatre, London
Mazeppa (1991) By Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, directed by Richard Jones. Bregenz Festival/Nederlands Opera
A Flea in Her Ear (1989) By Georges Feydeau, directed by Richard Jones. Old Vic, London.
The Love For Three Oranges (1988) By Sergei Prokofiev, directed by Richard Jones. Opera North, Leeds/English National Opera, London.
Dybbuk (1988) Ballet by Kim Brandstrup. The Place, London.
Passage 7:
Speechless (TV series)
Speechless is an American television sitcom that aired on ABC from September 21, 2016, to April 12, 2019. Created by Scott Silveri and co-executive produced with Christine Gernon, Jake Kasdan, and Melvin Mar, the 20th Television/ABC Signature co-production was greenlighted to series order on May 13, 2016. A first-look trailer was released on the same day. Starring Minnie Driver, John Ross Bowie and Micah Fowler, the sitcom explores the serious and humorous challenges a family faces with a teenager with a disability. On September 29, 2016, the series was picked up for a full 22-episode season. An additional episode was ordered on December 13, 2016, for a 23-episode season. On May 10, 2019, ABC cancelled the series after three seasons.

Plot
The series follows the DiMeo family, each with a unique personality: Maya, a take-charge British mother with a no-holds-barred attitude; her husband Jimmy, who does not seem to care what others think; Dylan, their no-nonsense athletic daughter; Ray, their scholarly middle child who acts as the "voice of reason" in the family; and their oldest son, JJ — a high schooler who has a biting wit and sense of humor, and is diagnosed with cerebral palsy. JJ communicates by using headgear with a laser pointer to indicate various words, letters, and numbers on a board attached to his wheelchair. One of the reasons the DiMeos move frequently, is due to an attempt to find a good educational environment for JJ. They believe they have found an optimal choice when they discover a school that prides itself on being inclusive and where JJ will have an aide support him throughout the school day. Because the school is in an upscale part of town, Jimmy and Maya move the family into the cheapest, most rundown house in an otherwise nice neighborhood. Though they quickly find that not everything is as good as it could be. JJ enjoys having Kenneth, a gentle, well-meaning school groundskeeper with a deep and resonant speaking voice, work as his aide.

Cast and characters
Main
Minnie Driver as Maya DiMeo, the fierce and determined mother of the family
John Ross Bowie as Jimmy DiMeo, the fun-loving, easily persuadable father of the family who is a supervisor of baggage handlers at the airport
Mason Cook as Raymond "Ray" DiMeo, the middle child. Slender and nerdy, he faces constant harassment, mostly from Dylan.
Micah Fowler as Jimmy "JJ" DiMeo Jr., The eldest child with cerebral palsy. He is non-speaking (thus the show's title) and uses a wheelchair. He has a crush on Emma Watson, which serves as a running gag on the show.
Kyla Kenedy as Dylan DiMeo, the athletic youngest child, and only daughter. She enjoys pulling pranks and harassing others, especially Ray.
Cedric Yarbrough as Kenneth Clements, the good-natured aide to JJ who serves as his voice. Although he and Maya tend to butt heads, she is appreciative of his work.

Recurring
Pepper, the happy Golden Retriever who's supposed to be Dylan's pet, but acts like he's more fond of the others
Marin Hinkle as Dr. Ava Miller, the principal of the kids' school who is easily influenced by Maya
Jonathan Slavin as Mr. Powers, one of JJ's teachers
Liz Cackowski as Joyce, JJ's physiotherapist
Sarah Chalke as Melanie Hertzal, Taylor's mother
Kayla Maisonet as Izzy, JJ's girlfriend
Jack Dylan Grazer as Rev
David Lengel as Tad
Sedona Cohen as Taylor, Ray's ex-girlfriend
Cole Massie as Logan, Melanie's son, Taylor's brother, and JJ's nemesis
Karly Rothenberg as Crossing Guard

Special guests
Rob Corddry as Billy, Jimmy's brother
Andrea Anders as Audrey, Billy's wife
Julianne Hough as Miss Bloom, the new choir teacher at the kids' school
Jamie Denbo as Janet, the DiMeos' insurance agent
Jim O'Heir as Stu, the DiMeos' former insurance agent
Ken Marino as Ethan, Maya's ex-boyfriend
Michaela Watkins as Becca, a new mom at the group of families with disabled kids
Zach Anner as Lee, a wheelchair-using young man who Maya asks to speak with JJ about living on his own
Holland Taylor as Andrea, Maya's pretentious mother
Keith David as Colonel Clements, Kenneth's father
John Cleese as Martin, Maya's father who lives in London
Julie White as Helen, Lee's over protective mother
Niecy Nash as Kiki, Kenneth's sister
Lisa Leslie as Kendall, Kenneth's sister
Tricia O'Kelley as Candy Kensington
Rondi Reed as Nina
Christopher Thornton as Chris
Bella Thorne as Cassidy
Jay Chandrasekhar as Coach

Episodes
Production
Development
On January 11, 2016, it was announced that ABC had given the production a pilot order as Speechless. The episode was written by Scott Silveri who was expected to executive produce alongside Christine Gernon, Jake Kasdan and Melvin Mar. Production companies involved with the pilot include Silver and Gold Productions, The Detective Agency, ABC Studios and 20th Century Fox Television. On May 13, 2016, ABC officially ordered the pilot to series. A few days later, it was announced that the series would premiere in the fall of 2016 and air on Tuesdays at 9:30 P.M. EST. On September 23, 2016, ABC picked up the series for a full season of 22 episodes and on December 13, they get only one episode. On May 12, 2017, ABC renewed the series for a second season which premiered on September 27, 2017. On May 11, 2018, ABC renewed the series for a third season and announced it would air on Fridays at 8:30 P.M. EST and premiered on October 5, 2018.

Casting
On February 24, 2016, it was announced that Cedric Yarbrough had been cast in the pilot. In March 2016, it was reported that Minnie Driver and John Ross Bowie had also joined the pilot's main cast.

Cancellation
Speechless aired on the network ABC for about three years before the ultimate decision to cancel it. The final decision to cancel the show was made due to the fact that it was the lowest-rated series on the network. Variety explains that the last, and concluding season, ranked the lowest within the network with only around 2.3 million live viewers. Deadline notes that former ABC president, Karey Burke explained that the cancellation of the show Speechless was "gut wrenching" decision. Ultimately, the choice was made due to the low number of viewers, as well as the introduction of a new show, Fresh Off The Boat.
One of the main actors, Minnie Driver, notes that while it is saddening that the show has been canceled, the main hope is that the show left a lasting impact on its audience. Minnie Driver, who plays JJ's mom, continued to explain she believes that conversations regarding disability, love, as well as family have been left in better terms than they were found. Another main actor, Micah Fowler, who portrays JJ on the show, took to Twitter to express his gratitude towards the fans, and staff, for the amazing life changing opportunity. While the show was only on air for three years, it left a lasting impression on its audience.

Reception
Critical response
Speechless received largely positive reviews from critics. On Rotten Tomatoes, the series has a rating of 98%, based on 41 reviews, with an average rating of 8.2/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "Speechless speaks to a sensitive topic with a heartfelt lead performance and a fine balance of sensitivity and irreverence." On Metacritic, the series has a score of 79 out of 100, based on 29 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".The editors of TV Guide placed Speechless seventh among the top ten picks for the most anticipated new shows of the 2016–17 season. In its review from writer Liam Matthews, "ABC has another worthwhile addition to its strong lineup of modern families with Speechless," adding "It's a clear-eyed and empathetic exploration of life in a special-needs family that makes plenty of room for hilarity."

Representation
Speechless is one of the few shows that portrays the life of a teenager with a disability. It is also one of the few shows that has a disabled actor play the character. According to Bond, there are approximately 21 million children, between the ages of 5 and 15, that have a disability. If television, and the media, were able to mirror the demographics of the U.S. then about 14% of characters would be disabled. Speechless was just one example, however it was cancelled after a couple of seasons due to 'low ratings' despite a good audience reception. Bond notes that media representation of disability, both mental and physical, may impact audiences in a more profound manner than telling them what disability is like. Through the introduction of physical disabilities, there is hope to integrate individuals into society, without prejudice and biases. Bond continues to explain that children begin to distinguish and detect differences as young as 4 years of age. Marquis notes that representations in movies like Still Alice and The Theory of Everything are two popular examples that perpetuate inconsistencies about the disabled body. These authors explain that there is disability representation in the media, however it is lacking authenticity and adequate portrayal. Shows like Speechless should be given a platform, for the actors and production team, to speak on the issues surrounding representation.

Ratings
Accolades
Home media
Passage 8:
Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story
Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story is a 2007 American comedy film directed by Jake Kasdan, and written by Kasdan and co-producer Judd Apatow. It stars John C. Reilly, Jenna Fischer, Tim Meadows and Kristen Wiig. A parody of the biopic genre, Walk Hard is the story of a fictional early rock and roll star played by Reilly.
Walk Hard primarily references the musical biopics Ray (2004) and Walk the Line (2005); in addition to Ray Charles and Johnny Cash, the "Dewey Cox" character includes elements of the lives and careers of other notable musicians including Roy Orbison, Glen Campbell, Bob Dylan, Jerry Lee Lewis, Donovan, John Lennon, James Brown, Jim Morrison, Conway Twitty, Neil Diamond, Hank Williams, and Brian Wilson. The film portrays fictional versions of artists Buddy Holly, the Big Bopper, Elvis Presley, and the Beatles; some artists appear as themselves, including Eddie Vedder, Jewel and Ghostface Killah. In addition, the film parodies or pays tribute to the musical styles of David Bowie, Billy Joel, Van Dyke Parks, the Gun Club, and seventies punk rock.
The film was released in North America on December 21, 2007. It received positive reviews from critics but was a box office bomb, grossing only $20 million against a $35 million budget. The film has since become a cult classic.

Plot
In Springberry, Alabama, 1946, young Dewey Cox accidentally cuts his brother Nate in half with a machete. The trauma causes him to lose his sense of smell. Dewey meets a blues guitarist who discovers his life experience instilled in him a natural affinity for playing blues.
In 1953, Dewey performs at a school talent show and drives the crowd wild with his song "Take My Hand," and his father kicks him out of the house, calling it the "Devil's music". A 14-year-old Dewey leaves Springberry with his 12-year-old girlfriend Edith; they soon marry and have a baby. 
Working at an all-African American nightclub, Dewey replaces singer Bobby Shad onstage and impresses Hasidic Jew record executive L'Chaim. While recording a rockabilly rendition of "That's Amore", he is berated by an executive. A desperate Dewey performs "Walk Hard," a song inspired by a speech he gave Edith, which restores the executive's belief in Judaism and rockets him to superstardom.
The song quickly becomes a hit and Dewey becomes caught up in the rock 'n' roll lifestyle. He soon performs his first concert as the following act to Elvis Presley, Buddy Holly, and The Big Bopper. Dewey is introduced to marijuana by his drummer Sam and becomes unfaithful to Edith. Dewey's father informs him that his mother has died while dancing to Dewey's song and blames Dewey's music for her death. 
Distraught, Dewey finds Sam using cocaine and partakes, resulting in a cocaine-fueled punk rock performance. Choir-girl Darlene Madison enters Dewey's life, and he produces several sexually suggestive hit records amid their courtship. He weds Darlene while still married to Edith, which leads to both women leaving him, after which Dewey purchases drugs from an undercover cop. After he serves time in prison and in rehab, Darlene returns.
They move to Berkeley, California in 1966 during the counterculture movement. Dewey's new singing style is compared to that of Bob Dylan, which he angrily denies. In the next scene, a music video shows that Dewey's new song mimics Dylan's style, including opaque lyrics ("The mouse with the overbite explained/how the rabbits were ensnared/ and the skinny scanty sylph/ trashed the apothecary diplomat/ inside the three-eyed monkey/ within inches of his toaster-oven life."). On a band visit to India, Dewey takes LSD with the Beatles, leading to a Yellow Submarine-esque hallucination. 
Dewey becomes consumed with creating his masterpiece Black Sheep (a homage to Brian Wilson's Smile). The band resents his insane musical style and abusive behavior and breaks up; Darlene, also unable to deal with him, leaves him for Glen Campbell. During another stint in rehab, Dewey is visited by the ghost of Nate, who ridicules his self-pity and tells him to start writing songs again.
In the 1970s, Dewey now hosts a CBS variety television show but is unable to compose a masterpiece for his brother. Nate reappears and urges him to reconcile with their father. Dewey and his father wind up dueling with machetes; despite having trained years for this moment, his father cuts himself in half, forgives Dewey for Nate's death, tells him to be a better father, and dies. Dewey breaks down and destroys almost everything in his home.
Dewey is approached by one of his illegitimate children and decides to reconnect with his many offspring. In 1992, a divorced Darlene returns to him. Finally realizing what is most important, Dewey regains his sense of smell and remarries her.
In 2007, L'Chaim's son Dreidel informs Dewey of his popularity with young listeners through rapper Lil' Nutzzak's sampling of "Walk Hard." Dewey learns he is to receive a lifetime achievement award. They want him to sing a song at the ceremony, but Dewey is reluctant, fearing his old temptations. However, with his family's support, he reunites with his band and is finally able to create one great masterpiece, summing up his entire life with his final song, "Beautiful Ride."
A title card reveals that Dewey died three minutes after this final performance, which then also reads "Dewford Randolph Cox, 1936–2007." A post-credits scene is a short black-and-white clip of "the actual Dewey Cox, April 16, 2002" (still played by Reilly).

Cast
Production and development
Jake Kasdan brought the idea to his friend and fellow director Judd Apatow. They then began writing the film together. The tongue-in-cheek references in this fake biopic were drawn from various sources. Apatow and Kasdan noted that they watched various types of biopics for inspiration, including those of Jimi Hendrix and Marilyn Monroe. Despite the humorous approach, the film was crafted in the serious tone of films earmarked for an Oscar, adding to the irony.John C. Reilly, who actually sings and plays guitar, was chosen to play the title role. "We took the clichés of movie biopics and just had fun with them," Reilly said. The "deliberate miscasting" of celebrity cameos, such as Elvis Presley and the Beatles, was intended to enhance the comedy. The film's poster is a reference to the "young lion" photos of Jim Morrison.

Reception
On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 74% based on 134, classifying it as "certified fresh". The site's consensus states: "A parody that pokes fun at rock stars and reductive biopics alike, this comedy sings in large part because of stellar performances and clever original music." On Metacritic the film has a score of 63 out of 100 based on reviews from 22 critics.Roger Ebert gave the film 3 out of 4 stars and wrote: "Instead of sending everything over the top at high energy, like Top Secret! or Airplane!, they allow Reilly to more or less actually play the character, so that, against all expectations, some scenes actually approach real sentiment." Peter Travers of Rolling Stone magazine wrote: "The tricky thing about parody movies is that the jokes get old fast and they're hit-and-miss. Walk Hard, a spoof of every musical biopic from Ray to Walk the Line, is guilty on both counts. How lucky that when the jokes do hit, they kick major ass." A 2022 review of the best comedy films of the 21st century placed this at sixth.The film was not commercially successful, taking $18 million at the US box office which was less than the film's $35 million budget.John C. Reilly received a Golden Globe nomination for Best Performance in a Musical or Comedy and a nomination for Best Original Song.

Home media
The film was released on DVD and Blu-ray on April 8, 2008. In the opening weekend, 263,001 DVD units were sold, generating revenue of $5,110,109. As of May 2010, DVD sales have gathered revenue of $15,664,735.

Promotional appearances
Along with a backing band "The Hardwalkers", Reilly made seven musical appearances as Dewey Cox in the weeks prior to the film's release date.
December 5, 2007 – Rock & Roll Hall of Fame (Cleveland, OH)
December 6, 2007 – The Cubby Bear (Chicago, IL)
December 7, 2007 – Stubb's BBQ (Austin, TX)
December 8, 2007 – Mercy Lounge (Nashville, TN)
December 10, 2007 – Great American Music Hall (San Francisco, CA)
December 11, 2007 – The Blacksheep (Colorado Springs, CO)
December 13, 2007 – Guitar Center on Sunset Blvd. (Los Angeles, CA)
December 19, 2007 – Knitting Factory (New York, NY)
December 19, 2007 – Performed in the character of Dewey Cox on Good Morning America.Several fake commercials were aired including one with John Mayer, hinting Dewey might be his father.

Soundtrack
Singer-songwriters Dan Bern and Mike Viola (of the Candy Butchers) wrote most of the film's songs, including "There's a Change a Happenin'", "Mulatto", "A Life Without You (Is No Life at All)", "Beautiful Ride" and "Hole in My Pants". Charlie Wadhams and Benji Hughes wrote the song "Let's Duet". Marshall Crenshaw wrote the title song, and Van Dyke Parks penned the Brian Wilson-esque 1960s-styled psychedelic jam "Black Sheep" (the recording session seems to be a specific parody of Wilson's Smile album sessions, on which Van Dyke Parks worked). Antonio Ortiz wrote "Take My Hand". A number of critics noted the unusually high quality of many of the individual songs on the soundtrack, how well they reflected the styles and times they were attempting to parody, and how well they stood on their own as quality compositions. The soundtrack was nominated for both a Grammy and Golden Globe Award and was nominated and won the Sierra Award for Best Song in a Motion Picture from the Las Vegas Film Critics Society. John C. Reilly sang on all the tracks and played guitar on most of them.
Passage 9:
Weird Loners
Weird Loners is an American sitcom that was created by Michael J. Weithorn.  The 6-episode first season was ordered straight-to-series by the Fox network in 2014.  The series is executive produced by Weithorn and Jake Kasdan. The series premiered on March 31, 2015.On May 11, 2015, Fox canceled the series after one season. Kevin Reilly, the network President who had ordered the series from Weithorn's spec script in 2013, was fired a few months later leaving the series without a champion at the network.

Premise
Four people who fear personal relationships are unexpectedly thrust into one another's lives and form an unlikely bond while living in a townhouse in Queens, New York.

Cast
Becki Newton as Caryn Goldfarb, a high-strung dental hygienist who was engaged to be married but suddenly decides to call off her engagement after a brief fling with Stosh.
Zachary Knighton as Stosh Lewandowski, Eric's sleazy cousin, whose womanizing lifestyle has recently cost him his job. With no job and nowhere to live, he is forced to move in with his cousin Eric.
Nate Torrence as Eric Lewandowski, a toll collector who is suddenly on his own for the first time after his father unexpectedly passes away. After the funeral, his estranged cousin Stosh offers to move in with him.
Meera Rohit Kumbhani as Zara Sandhu, an angst-ridden artist, who befriends Eric after he buys one of her paintings.

Recurring
Susie Essman as Evelyn Goldfarb, Caryn's mother.
David Wain as Howard, Caryn's ex-fiancé.

Critical reception
Weird Loners received mixed reviews, with Rotten Tomatoes giving the series a score of 44% based on reviews from 25critics and an average rating of 5.5 out of 10. The website’s consensus reads: " Weird Loners strands its veteran stars in an overly familiar sitcom structure burdened with a preponderance of humdrum humor."Neil Genzlinger of The New York Times gave the series a positive review, stating: "[Weird Loners is] not loud or frenetic. It’s not particularly cutting-edge. It’s just funny, in a relaxed way that’s welcome somehow in a television spectrum full of pushiness and intensity."Gwen Ihnat of The A.V. Club wrote a positive review giving the series a "B+" grade. She observed that "What Weird Loners has in its corner is an appealing cast and some hard-hitting TV vets" and remarked that "Since [Jake] Kasdan and [Michael J.] Weithorn both know their way around a sitcom set, it’s not a surprise that Weird Loners soon adds more gravity than most new shows boast from right out of the gate."

Episodes