Passage 1:
Roman Brady
Roman Brady is a fictional character from the long-running NBC soap opera Days of Our Lives. The role was originated in 1981 by Wayne Northrop, who played the role until 1984 and from 1991 to 1994, and is currently being portrayed by series veteran Josh Taylor, who stepped into the role in 1997. Roman is a member of the fictional Brady family, and has been a central character on the show since his introduction in 1981. Over the years, Roman has been involved in a number of storylines, including romances, family conflicts, and mystery plots.

Casting
The role was originated on December 8, 1981, by Wayne Northrop. Northrop departed from the series on November 26, 1984, and the character was killed off during a battle with his arch-nemesis, international criminal mastermind Stefano DiMera. On November 27, 1985, the series introduced a character known as The Pawn, an amnesiac mystery man ostensibly controlled by Stefano but now in the custody of Stefano's rival and local businessman/mobster Victor Kiriakis. The role was portrayed by Robert Poynton until January 20, 1986, though the character's face is wrapped in bandages. On January 23, 1986, The Pawn's bandages were finally removed as Drake Hogestyn made his first appearance as John Black, a character with no memory of his past or knowledge of his real identity. In May 1986, Hogestyn's character of John is revealed to be Roman who had been treated to extensive brainwashing and plastic surgery courtesy of Stefano, and Hogestyn played the role written as Roman until 1991. When Northrop returned as Roman on August 30, 1991, the character that Hogestyn had been portraying for five years was retconned to be an entirely separate character that had been brainwashed to believe he was Roman Brady. Northrop once again departed from the series on August 2, 1994. On July 18, 1997, Josh Taylor appeared in the role as a recast of Roman Brady. The casting was met with criticism due to Taylor's previous portrayal of Chris Kositchek, one of Roman and Marlena's closest friends. Northrop was later recast as another new character, Dr. Alex North, and scenes from Northrop's time playing Roman were edited to create the new character's backstory.

Characterization
Roman is the retired police commissioner of the fictional Midwestern town of Salem, and currently manages and tends bar at his family's business, the Brady Pub. He is also a former agent of the fictional International Security Alliance (ISA), a spy agency focused on all sorts of unusually high-level global conspiracies that tended to center around his otherwise-quiet home town. During his portrayal by Northrop, he was established as a top-notch cop but also a bit of a renegade, often accepting deep-cover assignments, and a master of disguise (similar to Sherlock Holmes). Hogestyn's character was more by-the-book on the job, although still dangerous with a dark side somewhat characteristic of an ex-spy (which later fed into the "John Black" persona), with expertise in Bruce Lee's Jeet Kune Do, and a little more of a ladies' man. Taylor's portrayal is more that of a "regular guy", with a bit less intrigue and more straightforward professionally, although still with an eye for the ladies and more inclined to engage in one-night stands with various women than the character as portrayed by Northrop or Hogestyn (such as with Kate Roberts, Billie Reed, ex-wives Anna DiMera and Marlena Evans, and a strongly hinted at – but never confirmed – rendezvous with Nicole Walker).
Over the years, much has been made of the creation (and constant retcon of the backstory) of Hogestyn's character John Black as an entirely separate character than that of Roman Brady, especially after the show had invested over five years in establishing John's identity as Roman, complete with a plausible backstory (and flashbacks) of his “time away” (while he was being held captive, brainwashed, and trained—-unsuccessfully—-to be an assassin by Stefano DiMera), and "Roman's" reemerging memories. However, with Roman's recasts and changes in characterization over the years (while John has consistently been played by Hogestyn), in hindsight it can be said that it was actually John Black that remained more true to the original "Roman" persona, and that it was Roman that was gradually developed into a separate character. This was especially illustrated in 2016 when Roman, who had always been a straight-shooter with regard to the law, became complicit in the cover-up of sister-in-law Hope Brady's murder of Stefano DiMera, who she wrongly believed was responsible for the disappearance and later death of her husband (and Roman's brother) Bo Brady.

Storylines
1981–84
Roman Brady first appeared on Days to protect Marlena Evans from a serial killer. He slept on her floor. The chemistry between the actors, and the characters, led to love. In 1983 on Days of Our Lives, Roman and Marlena were married. Over the next year Roman became embroiled in a storyline with Stefano DiMera. Stefano was a powerful and ruthless business tycoon (and organized crime figure) from Europe who had come to town to set up shop in Salem, and Roman being the city's top cop had gone after him. Subsequently Stefano framed Roman for serial killings that were being committed by his nephew Andre DiMera. At the time Marlena saw Roman killing a woman. Later it was shown that Andre had used a realistic mask. Roman was jailed. Mrs. Alice Horton baked him some drugged doughnuts, and on the way to the hospital Roman escaped. He went on the run to prove his innocence, and he accomplished that. He was promoted, and Stefano was on the run.
In November 1984, Roman tracked Stefano to a Caribbean island where many other characters had crash-landed, too. Stefano was suffering from incurable cancer, and needed to collect three mysterious prisms to unlock a secret formula to cure himself. Roman caught up to him on a cliff, but Stefano pulled a gun. He shot Roman, who seemingly fell to his death. His brother Bo cradled him in his arms on the beach, but had to leave him for a few minutes. When he returned the body was gone. Bo assumed that while he was away, the tide had come in and washed Roman’s body out to sea, for which Bo blamed himself for years. Several episodes later Roman was shown aboard Stefano's yacht, motionless.

1986–1990
In 1986 an amnesiac known only as "The Pawn" appeared in Salem on January 23, 1986. He assumed the name "John Black" after reading it on a Vietnam War memorial in Salem. Eventually the character was revealed to be Roman Brady having undergone extensive plastic surgery, brainwashing, and martial arts training (purportedly to be trained as an assassin) by Stefano DiMera. After an uneasy "re-introduction" to his family and friends in Salem, the character resumed his life as Roman.
In 1988, a storyline featuring a reappearance by Stefano (who had been believed dead) focused on what had happened to Roman during his time in captivity (1984–1986). Roman and loved ones traveled back to the Caribbean island where Roman had "died" in 1984, and it was revealed that the ISA knew all along that Roman was being held by Stefano and being trained via brainwashing, and extensive instruction by a martial arts master named Orion Hawk, to be one of Stefano's assassins. In fact, the ISA unsuccessfully tried to infiltrate Orion's training camp to extract Roman, but this failed due to the high level of security at Stefano's compound as well as Roman's brainwashed state. This tied into the introduction of Benjy, Stefano's son (and Orion's grandson) who was fostered for a while by Steve and Kayla Johnson. Although subtle hints pointed to the possibility of this "Roman" turning out to be someone else, abetted by speculation by fans and by Hogestyn himself, the clues seemed to tie back together with the resolution that, at least for the moment, the character portrayed by Hogestyn was in fact Roman Brady.

1991–94
After believing that Roman's wife, Marlena Evans, had been dead for some years, he had fallen in love with a woman named Isabella Toscano. In 1991 Marlena turns up alive. In August 1991 the character who had been presumed as Roman Brady since 1986 is retroactively revealed to be a separate character (now once again called John Black) who was brainwashed to believe he was Roman, when what would now be the real Roman (once again played by Wayne Northrop) was found on an island where he had been imprisoned by Stefano. Roman was shocked when he found he had been replaced and all his family had accepted John Black as him and John Black had a difficult time accepting he was not really Roman. Roman went back to his life, and he and Marlena tried to live once again as man and wife. After the death of Isabella, in his grief John turned to Marlena for comfort. The two found themselves unable to resolve their feelings for each other from their life together when John believed himself to be Roman. He and Marlena had an affair that resulted in the birth of a daughter, Isabella, named after Isabella Toscano, whom Roman believed to be his own daughter. When he discovered that Marlena and John had an affair and that Belle was not his real daughter, Roman was crushed. In August 1994, Roman leaves town broken and bitter, once again with no family. Later it was said that Roman had died on a mission for the ISA.

1997–present
In 1997 Josh Taylor was brought in as Roman, who was revealed by Stefano DiMera and Kristen Blake to be alive after being exposed to biological warfare while on a deep-cover ISA mission in South America. The cure to his ailment was discovered by John, Hope, and Stefano in a jungle mission that was engineered to drive John and Marlena apart, but in the end had the opposite result.
Roman was "killed" during the Salem Stalker Murders in December 2003 during his wedding reception to Kate Roberts, but again was revealed to not really be dead. He lived on the island of Melaswen (New Salem) with every other victim from the Salem Stalker Murders, including Marlena. Eventually, other Salemites arrived on the island, trying to find their "dead" loved ones. Some of them went out in the jungle, looking for a way off the island, while the rest remained in "Salem" waiting for help. Help finally arrived. Jennifer got to the island, then Hope and Patrick and finally Bo and John. Everyone banded together to get off the island, but Tony wasn't going to make it easy. He created a volcanic eruption, which eventually caused a giant wave. As everyone gathered on makeshift rafts to get off the island, the wave crashed over them. The Coast Guard arrived and managed to rescue some of them, but Roman, Marlena, Jack, and his daughter Cassie were not saved. They were in the clutches of Tony DiMera once again, and he took them to a remote European castle where he held them captive.
While in the castle, Tony DiMera (actually Andre DiMera) tormented Roman and Marlena with video of John and Kate growing ever closer back in Salem. Eventually, they believed the two of them had sex, and Roman and Marlena, needing comfort, had sex as well. Shortly thereafter, Jack made his way into their room. They escaped! Through fire and explosions, our group of intrepid Salemites – Marlena, Roman, Jack and Cassie – all got out and were on their way home.
On the ISA jet on the way back to Salem, Roman and Marlena made the decision to not tell Kate and John that they had sex. Marlena was uncomfortable with lying to John, but eventually agreed with Roman. When they arrived back they were shocked to learn that John and Kate had fallen in love and were engaged to be married, but Roman and Marlena still didn't tell the truth about their affair. Soon after they were back Marlena discovered that she was pregnant and that Roman had to be the father, but when the truth came out John wasn't too forgiving. During a fight between Roman and John, Marlena tumbled down the stairs, causing a miscarriage.
As the second decade of the 21st century has unfolded, Roman is the commissioner of the Salem police force. After an ill-fated marriage to Kate Roberts, he has remained single and adopted an elder-statesman, back-burner role on the show. He serves primarily as the de facto patriarch of the Brady family and the supervisor and occasional voice-of-reason to junior police officers and ISA agents (with a catchphrase of sorts developing from his consistent inquiries of "what da hell" is going on). He has largely made peace with his past with Stefano DiMera, John Black, and Victor Kiriakis, and remains friends with ex-wives Anna, Marlena and Kate, and is occasionally shown as having a soft spot for all of them. In March 2017, he retires as police commissioner and is seen later tending bar at the Brady Pub. In 2018, he begins working with his friends John Black and Steve Johnson at their private detective business, Black Patch. Hattie Adams, Marlena's doppelganger, develops feelings for Roman and tries to trick him into thinking she is Marlena, but this does not work out. In 2021, he rekindles his romance with Kate, and they remarry the following year.

External links
Roman at soapcentral.com
Passage 2:
Kevin Yorn
Kevin Brett Yorn (born July 4, 1965) is an American entertainment attorney and investor. He co-founded Yorn Barnes Levine Entertainment Law Firm where he is managing partner.

Early life and education
Yorn was born in Montville, New Jersey to father Dr. Lawrence Yorn, a dentist and captain in the Army, and his mother, Joan Yorn. He has two brothers, Pete Yorn, a musician and Rick Yorn, a talent manager.Yorn is an alumnus of Muhlenberg College in Allentown, PA. He graduated with a Juris Doctor degree from Tulane University Law School in 1990 and was admitted to The State Bar of California in 1991. Yorn has collaborated with Tulane University, his alma mater and created funds to promote entertainment and media law at Tulane Law School as well as to support the Gender & Sexuality Studies program in the School of Liberal Arts.

Career
Early Career
Yorn became a deputy district attorney in L.A. County after graduating from Tulane Law in 1990. He was in the D.A.’s office for five years, working in the Hardcore Gang Investigations Unit.

Yorn Barnes Levine
In 1996 Yorn was recruited from the D.A.'s to partner with Michael Barnes, Kevin Morris and Brian Wolf, forming Barnes Morris Wolf & Yorn, based in Santa Monica.Aspiring writer Anthony Zuiker asked Yorn for help in escaping a screenwriting contract so that he could go on to create the television series CSI, which premiered in 2000.In 2013, Yorn worked on the deal to renew DeGeneres' talk show through 2016-17.In the summer of 2014, Yorn's firm made a deal with Hulu for three years of South Park reruns, reportedly at a price of more than $80 million, and he helped Zuiker make content deals with YouTube and Yahoo. Yorn also created a joint venture with Warner Bros., Ellen DigitalVentures, to help take advantage of Ellen DeGeneres’ social media reach, digital video content, games and apps, including Heads Up!.Yorn was listed among The Hollywood Reporter’s Top 100 Entertainment Attorneys in 2013 and 2014, and one of Hollywood's top power lawyers every year between 2015 and 2023.

Investing
In 2021, Yorn co-founded private equity investment firm Broadlight Holdings with his brother Rick and David Dorfman. The firm is focused on investments in the global technology and consumer landscape.

Personal life
Yorn lives in Los Angeles, California. His parents moved to Los Angeles in 2000, and his mother Joan became a receptionist at Yorn Barnes Levine.In 1996, he married film producer Julie Silverman in a Jewish ceremony in Tarrytown, New York. They later divorced in 2005.
Passage 3:
L. Londell McMillan
L. Londell McMillan  (born in 1966 in Bedford–Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, New York) is an American entertainment attorney, producer, and publisher.

History
He graduated from Brooklyn Technical High School in 1983 and received his undergraduate degree from Cornell University, where he was a Quill and Dagger member, honors graduate, and Academic All-American mentioned football player. After his time at Cornell, McMillan pursued a law career at the New York University School of Law.McMillan was a faculty member with the Practicing Law Institute; lecturer and featured case study subject of the Harvard Business School.  He also has been a guest and commentator on The Oprah Winfrey Show, Today, Entertainment Tonight, and CNN. In 2008, McMillan was named as one of The National Law Journal’s 50 most Influential Minority Lawyers in America, and in 2007 was recognized as one of New York’s Super Lawyers.  He was a recipient of the Metropolitan Black Bar Association Haywood W. Burns, Lawyer of the Year Award in 2001 and was featured on the cover of Black Enterprise magazine in December 2003.  McMillan has also been honored among Crain’s 100 Most Powerful Minority Leaders.   McMillan founded The McMillan Firm;  he was a partner and co-head of the Media and Entertainment Global Industry Sector Group at the international law firm of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP until 2012.  McMillan is also the Chairman of The NorthStar Group which owns and operates The Source Magazine (print and digital), Jones Magazine (print and digital) and produces music, arts and cultural events locally, nationally and worldwide.  McMillan serves as a business advisor and business manager for individuals and organizations in the private sector and non-profit community.
His clients over the years have included Prince before his death and his estate after his death, Lil' Kim, Stevie Wonder, Chaka Khan,  Michael Jackson before his death, Roberta Flack, Isaac Hayes, Spike Lee, LL Cool J, Nas, Kanye West, Zhane, Estate of Christopher Wallace, 1996 Olympic Women's Basketball Players Lisa Leslie & Dawn Staley, among other professional athletes and entertainers.  Among his corporate clients have been The Discovery Channel, Time Warner, Screenvision, Radio One, and National Football League, and Mercedes-Benz.

Community service
L. Londell McMillan is committed to community service, having served as General Counsel of the NAACP, Brooklyn Chapter, serves as Chair of NorthStar Charities, Co-Founder of the Artist Empowerment Coalition, Founder of SOURCE360, and served on the Fund for Public Schools (which raises private financial support for New York City's public schools), and the Benefit Committee of The Jazz Foundation of America, as well as being a member of the Board of Directors. McMillan is the current owner and group publisher of The NorthStar Group, which publishes Jones Magazine and The Source.
Passage 4:
Liam Hemsworth
Liam Hemsworth (born 13 January 1990) is an Australian actor. He played the roles of Josh Taylor in the soap opera Neighbours and Marcus in the children's television series The Elephant Princess. In American films, Hemsworth starred as Will Blakelee in The Last Song (2010), as Gale Hawthorne in The Hunger Games film series (2012–2015), and as Jake Morrison in Independence Day: Resurgence (2016).

Early life
Hemsworth was born in Melbourne, Australia, to Leonie (née van Os), an English teacher, and Craig Hemsworth, a social-services counsellor. He has two older brothers, Chris Hemsworth and Luke Hemsworth, who are also actors. His maternal grandfather is a Dutch immigrant, and his other ancestry is English, Irish, Scottish, and German. Hemsworth has said that though there is competition for jobs among them, it is friendly: "We are brothers and we are always competitive, but it is a good thing, it pushes us and we are always happy whenever someone books something."When Hemsworth was in year 8 high school, he and his family relocated to Phillip Island, a small Australian island southeast of Melbourne where he spent much of his time there surfing with his brothers. In March 2009, Hemsworth moved to the United States to pursue his acting career. He and his brother Chris first stayed in the guest house of Chris's manager, William Ward, before renting their own Los Angeles apartment.

Career
2007–2010: Career beginnings
Prior to becoming an actor, Hemsworth laid floors for six months. He began to seriously consider following his elder brothers' footsteps in high school by participating in school plays. Eventually, Hemsworth retained an agent. He attended his first audition at the age of sixteen and began his career in 2007 with guest appearances on the shows Home and Away and McLeod's Daughters. The week of 8 July 2007, Hemsworth began filming episodes for Neighbours, an Australian soap opera his brother Luke had previously starred in. Hemsworth's character, Josh Taylor, was a recurring character from 2007 to 2008. In the show, Josh was an athletic paraplegic who supported and began a relationship with character Bridget Parker after she was paralysed down one side of her body in a car crash. In 2008, Hemsworth began acting on the children's television show The Elephant Princess, playing "Marcus", the lead guitarist of the protagonist's band. Hemsworth later had roles in the television series Satisfaction and starred in the British film Triangle. He also made a brief appearance as an MIT student in the film Knowing.In 2009, Hemsworth was selected to act opposite Sylvester Stallone in Stallone's 2010 film, The Expendables, but his character was written out of the script (Hemsworth later co-starred in The Expendables 2). Hemsworth's brother, Chris, told Movieline that just a few hours after Hemsworth learned he would not appear in The Expendables, director Kenneth Branagh called to ask him to test for the lead role in the 2011 film Thor. Hemsworth moved to the States in March 2009 for screen tests. Though he eventually lost the role to Chris in May, Disney announced later the same week that Hemsworth had landed the part of Will Blakelee in the 2010 drama The Last Song, based on the Nicholas Sparks novel by the same name. Hemsworth plays the love interest of Miley Cyrus's character in the film. Nikki Finke reported that Hemsworth had been in Los Angeles for just three weeks and had not yet found an agent when he was cast. Hemsworth next appeared in the music video for Cyrus' "When I Look at You" which was recorded on 16 August 2009.In September 2009, Hemsworth appeared at a dinner event to promote Foxtel, an Australian pay television company. In March 2010, Details magazine selected Hemsworth as one of their predictions for "The Next Generation of Hollywood's Leading Men". Later that month, it was announced that Hemsworth was in negotiations to star in Arabian Nights, a 3D action film that will be directed by Chuck Russell for Inferno Entertainment. It was later confirmed that he will be starring in the movie. He has also reportedly been offered the lead role in Northern Lights after Taylor Lautner withdrew from the David Ellison-financed project.Hemsworth was the Nickelodeon Australian Kids' Choice Awards 2010 host. He and Miley Cyrus won the "Fave Kiss" category.Hemsworth starred in the music video for "Colder Weather" by the Zac Brown Band.

2011–present: The Hunger Games series and beyond
On 4 April 2011, Lionsgate announced Hemsworth to be one of the leads, Gale Hawthorne, in The Hunger Games, which was released in 2012. In June 2011, he became attached to war drama Love and Honor which also stars Aimee Teegarden and Teresa Palmer.In 2013, Hemsworth appeared in Empire State, with Emma Roberts, and Paranoia, co-starring Harrison Ford, Gary Oldman and Amber Heard. He reprised his role, Gale Hawthorne, in three sequels to The Hunger Games, The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, released in November 2013, The Hunger Games: Mockingjay – Part 1, released in November 2014, and The Hunger Games: Mockingjay – Part 2, released in November 2015.
On 11 June 2012, Los Angeles-based non-profit organization Australians in Film announced that Hemsworth would be honoured at an exclusive benefit dinner on 27 June 2012 in Hollywood. Hemsworth attended the invitation only event, held at the Intercontinental Hotel in Century City, with his then fiancée Miley Cyrus. It was their first public appearance together as an engaged couple.In 2015, Hemsworth portrayed the love interest of Kate Winslet's character in the Australian literary adaptation The Dressmaker, which was filmed in Victoria in the summer of 2014. Hemsworth starred in director Roland Emmerich's 2016 film Independence Day: Resurgence. In 2019, following a three-year absence, he played a fantasy version of a romantic comedy leading man in the film Isn't It Romantic, and starred in the action crime film Killerman.
Hemsworth currently appears on the horror TV series, Most Dangerous Game, for Quibi, the short-form streaming platform. Hemsworth plays the lead role as a terminally ill man trying to provide for his pregnant wife before he dies.In 2022, Hemsworth is set to star in the Netflix film Lonely Planet with Laura Dern. In October 2022, Netflix announced that Hemsworth would be replacing Henry Cavill as Geralt of Rivia from the start of Season 4 of The Witcher.

Personal life
Hemsworth is the ambassador of the Australian Childhood Foundation. Hemsworth talked about his association with the foundation, "I have the best parents you can have. They have worked in child protection for twenty years and have only ever given me encouragement and support. The world is a scary enough place as it is for children. It is important that home should always be a safe place for them." When asked if he believed he was a hero to children, Hemsworth said he did not know, but that he would like to be a good role model.Hemsworth was vegan and told Men's Fitness in 2015 that he found "no negatives to eating like this. I feel nothing but positive, mentally and physically." In 2020, following hospitalization for kidney stones, he told Men's Health that he had to "completely rethink what [he] was putting in [his] body."After his separation from Cyrus, Hemsworth began a relationship with Australian model, Gabriella Brooks.

Relationship with Miley Cyrus
While filming The Last Song in June 2009, Hemsworth began a relationship with his co-star Miley Cyrus. After a three-year on-again, off-again relationship, the couple announced their engagement in June 2012. They lived together in Los Angeles but ended their engagement in September 2013. Rumours began in January 2016, stemming primarily from sightings of the couple together at his Malibu home and the reappearance of the engagement ring on Cyrus. Cyrus confirmed in an interview on The Ellen DeGeneres Show in October 2016, they were once again engaged.In November 2018, Cyrus revealed on social media that her and Hemsworth's home had burned down in the Woolsey Fire, and expressed devastation for her community and gratitude for the safety of herself, Hemsworth, and their pets. The following morning, Hemsworth responded on his social media by posting a picture he had taken of the charred rubble of their former home. In his posts he praised the residents of his community on how they united in helping with the consequences of the fire, and encouraged his followers to donate their time, money, and resources to The Malibu Foundation, a non-profit established in the wake of the Woolsey fire, and to his fiancée's own non-profit organisation, the Happy Hippie Foundation, to further contribute help with the aftermath. On 13 November 2018, Hemsworth and Cyrus made a joint $500,000 donation to The Malibu Foundation through Cyrus's foundation.Hemsworth and Cyrus married on 23 December 2018 at their home in Nashville, Tennessee. On 10 August 2019, Cyrus announced their separation. Eleven days later, Hemsworth filed for divorce, citing irreconcilable differences. On 28 January 2020, it was announced that their divorce had been finalized.

Filmography
Film
Television
Awards and nominations
On 27 June 2012, Liam Hemsworth was presented with the Australians in Film Breakthrough Award for international success.
Passage 5:
Stefan Dennis
Stefan Dennis (born 30 October 1958) is an Australian actor and singer best known for playing the role of cold-hearted and ruthless businessman Paul Robinson in the soap opera Neighbours from its first episode on March 18, 1985. He departed Neighbours in 1992 before returning for a short stint in 1993. He then returned in late 2004 and played the character up until the show's temporary ending in 2022 and is set to return to the role in 2023. During his time away from Neighbours he was a cast member of Scottish soap opera River City produced and set in Glasgow, Scotland. He is also known for his 1989 single "Don't It Make You Feel Good", which reached Number 16 in the Irish and UK Singles Chart.

Early life
Dennis was born in Tawonga, Victoria but his family moved to Queensland for 12 years, where he did most of his schooling. He started showing his genuine interest in music and acting at the age of seven and was eleven years old when he started in amateur theatre in Queensland. His debut with this first theatre company was in Oliver!. Also, at this time he and his brother formed a vocal duo and performed on many occasions. They played at weddings, charity events, and some large concerts.By the age of 14, Dennis was convinced he wanted to go into the entertainment business. He understood the pitfalls associated with choosing the career of an entertainer, so he decided to get a trade behind him to support him through the times when he might be out of work. He left school at 15 and took an apprenticeship as a chef. On completion of his chef's certificate, he moved from the Gold Coast to Melbourne.

Career
Dennis started out in guest roles on programmes such as Cop Shop, Skyways, Carson's Law, Young Ramsay, Prisoner, Home, The Henderson Kids, The Sullivans, The Young Doctors and Sons and Daughters and many others. Dennis has a number of credits to his name. He had a major role in The Henderson Kids, a co-lead in an ABC children's show called Infinity Limited, and he co-starred in The Flying Doctors mini-series. In 1984, he auditioned for the roles of Shane Ramsay and Des Clarke in a new soap opera, Neighbours where he was later cast as Paul Robinson instead. His role in Neighbours brought opportunities such as appearing at the Royal Variety Performance alongside fellow cast members.
After finishing Neighbours in 1992, Dennis moved to the UK and worked on a variety of TV shows and theatre productions. He appeared in many pantomimes, plays, and musicals including the pantomime Cinderella in Bournemouth, UK from 10 December 1992 to 17 January 1993. In 1994, he played Mickey in Blood Brothers, touring in New Zealand and Australia before returning to the UK to appear in the show in both the West End, and in a national tour of the UK. He appeared in many television shows, including Dream Team, River City, The Bill and Casualty. He also returned to Australia from time to time for guest roles in shows such as Blue Heelers, Good Guys Bad Guys and Stingers. Dennis has worked as a voiceover artist for many years both in Australia and the UK.He was part of the team that set a new world record in 1995 for 24-hour endurance outdoor karting. The team – Stefan Dennis, David Brabham, Russ Malkin, Steve Malkin – set the record of 1,664.7 km (1,034.397 mi) on a 1.3 km (0.808 mi) track at Brooklands, Weybridge, Surrey, UK on 24 and 25 February 1995. While in the UK, Dennis became a partner in Lex Film Entertainment, and was associate producer on the film The Truth About Love.
He returned to Neighbours at the end of 2004, and continued as a regular character until the show's final episode in 2022. He is the only current cast member who appeared in the first episode, although he is not the longest serving due to his long break. Of his role in Neighbours, Dennis has said that people struggle to tell the difference between himself and the character and "shy away" from him because "they think I'm going to bark at them". He has conceded that it could be a testament to his acting and says "It's a real compliment though, as people know the character that well, they actually think I am like him in real life". As a matter of fact, although he portrays Paul Robinson as having a prosthetic leg, he has two good legs of his own.In 2009, Dennis was stalked by two fans while presenting the Best Villain award at the British Soap Awards. He hosted a documentary special celebrating Neighbours' 30th anniversary titled Neighbours 30th: The Stars Reunite, which aired in Australia and the UK in March 2015. In 2018, Dennis appeared in the recurring role of Michael Armstrong QC in the sixth series of Wentworth.

Music
In 1989, Dennis started a side-line music career, and released the single "Don't It Make You Feel Good", which reached No. 16 in the UK Singles Chart, in May of that year. He released a second single, "This Love Affair", which reached No. 67 in the UK in October 1989. Dennis is a talented pipe organist.(cite Australian Organist Association 1990 march)
In 2013, Dennis sang and appeared as Santa Claus in the music video for his Neighbours co-star Alan Fletcher's song "If You Want a Happy Christmas".

Personal life
Dennis' older brother, John, was killed by a drunk driver at the age of 12. Of the sentencing, Dennis has said: "That driver was fined just $50 for what he did. And that same weekend someone who killed a koala at Currumbin Wildlife Sanctuary got fined $200. So... well, that's hard." Dennis has used the incident to raise awareness about drink driving via his Twitter account.Dennis previously dated Natalie Imbruglia and Gayle Blakeney in the 1990s while they were co-starring on Neighbours with him.He met and married his wife, Gail when in the UK. The couple have two sons, Cameron and Declan, and a daughter Darci. The family reside in Australia.

Filmography
Television
Films
Theatre
Passage 6:
Lisa A. Callif
Lisa Anne Callif (born January 6, 1974) is an American entertainment attorney specializing in independent film. She works in all aspects of the field with a focus on clearance work – enabling filmmakers to use a limited amount of unlicensed material in their projects with the U.S. Copyright Law's fair use doctrine.In 2008, Callif became a named partner at the Beverly Hills law firm Donaldson & Callif. She has worked on such documentary films as I'm Still Here, Waiting for Superman and Inside Job. Filmmakers she has worked with include: Oliver Stone, Jason Blum and Elise Pearlstein. She is an adjunct associate professor of law at Southwestern Law School in Los Angeles.

As an author
In 2010, Callif released The American Bar Association's Legal Guide to Independent Film Making, which she co-authored with law partner Michael C. Donaldson, whose book Clearance & Copyright: Everything the Independent Filmmaker Needs to Know is used as a textbook in over 50 college and university film schools across America.

Recognition
In 2011 Callif was named one of "The Best and the Brightest" of Hollywood Law by Variety magazine.

Bibliography
The American Bar Association's Legal Guide To Independent Filmmaking (2010) (by Lisa A. Callif & Michael C. Donaldson)
Passage 7:
Ernest Del
Ernest Del (born January 16, 1952) is an American entertainment attorney. Del served as Senior Advisor at ZeniMax Media from 2017 till 2021.
Del previously served as President of ZeniMax from 1999 up until April 2017. He also serves as a director of Delivery Agent and of the Silver Eagle Acquisition Corporation.

Education
Del graduated with degrees in economics and political science from the University of California, Berkeley in 1973 and earned his J.D. degree from Stanford University Law School in 1976.

Career
Del began his law career in 1976 as an antitrust litigator at the law firm of Wyman, Bautzer, Rothman & Kuchel, focused primarily on cases addressing the transformation of the nationwide Bell telephone system in the late 1970s before shifting to transactional entertainment law. Initially he worked exclusively on feature films in the United States and abroad. He later worked on television and digital media.
In December 1999, he became President at ZeniMax Media. He additionally served as president of ZeniMax Europe from December 2010 to August 2012.  Del later became part of the law firm Del, Shaw, Moonves, Tanaka, Finkelstein & Lezcano.

Entertainment law
Del's clients include: Fox's former executive and current CEO of Tribune Company, Peter Liguori, Kevin Reilly (Chairman of Entertainment for the Fox Broadcasting Company), Former CW executive Dawn Ostroff, 20th TV's Dana Walden, Lionsgate CEO Jon Feltheimer, former The WB Television Network network president David Janollari, Leslie Moonves ( former president and CEO, CBS Corporation), actor-producer Paul Reiser, Stuart Bloomberg the former chairman of ABC Entertainment, Bob Greenblatt (chairman of NBC Entertainment). Some of his associates from Hollywood sat on ZeniMax's Board of Directors: Leslie Moonves, Harry Sloan and Jerry Bruckheimer.Del helped Harry E. Sloan to rebuild MGM, when Sloan was  chairman and CEO there. He also repped Providence Equity Partners in the creation of Hulu, as well as advising Bethesda Softworks. In 2009 and 2010, Del was called a power lawyer by The Hollywood Reporter.

See also
Greg Bautzer
Passage 8:
Umar Lubis
Umar Lubis (born July 14, 1973 in Jakarta) is an Indonesian actor. He is known for his numerous roles in soap operas. He always role in SinemArt soap opera. Usually he always role as father in soap opera. He is son in-law from Rae Sita. His name started to be known by public when he play in soap opera Intan. In that soap opera, he roled as Dr. Frans, father of Lila who is roled by Ingka Noverita.

Personal life
Umar married  Ravelra Ruth Supit (October 14, 1975) in 1996. From their marriage, they have four children, there are Nabil Raehan Lubis (January 1997), Ramzie Rif'at Lubis (July 7, 1998), Rania Rizqina Lubis (July 24, 2002), and Raafi Ali Lubis (April 2011).

Filmography
Films
Soap Operas
TVM
Kupilih Jalanku Sendiri (2017) as Akmal Fatoni
Passage 9:
Michael C. Donaldson
Michael C. Donaldson (born October 13, 1939) is an American entertainment attorney, independent film advocate and a recipient of the International Documentary Association's Amicus Award, an honor bestowed upon only two others, Steven Spielberg and John Hendricks, in the 25-year history of the awards. He is a proponent of the 165-year-old fair-use doctrine and, through its use, is known for saving documentarians hundreds of thousands of dollars while preserving their First Amendment rights.In addition to serving as general counsel to Film Independent (home of the Independent Spirit Awards and the Los Angeles Film Festival) and the Writers Guild of America/West Foundation, Donaldson practices at his Beverly Hills law firm, Donaldson & Callif, where, in 2008, entertainment attorney Lisa A. Callif became a partner.

United States v. Stevens
Donaldson played a significant part in the Supreme Court of the United States’ United States v. Stevens case by arranging the amicus brief that was filed by four documentary film organizations the members of which were directly affected by the Supreme Court's decision – the International Documentary Association, Film Independent, the Independent Feature Project, and the Independent Film & Television Alliance.The amicus brief was filed on behalf of a documentary filmmaker who made a film about the history of pit bulls and included a clip of dog fights in Japan, where dog fighting is legal. Filmmaker Robert Stevens was sentenced to three years in prison for violating a federal statute that criminalizes the depiction of cruelty to animals in film.
Through this brief the organizations urged the court to rule in favor of Stevens because of the case's First Amendment implications.
On April 20, 2010, the United States Supreme Court ruled 8–1 in favor of voiding a 1999 animal cruelty law in favor of free speech protections guaranteed by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.

Chevron v. Joe Berlinger
Donaldson prepared an amicus brief in support of filmmaker Joe Berlinger, who was ordered to hand over some 600 hours of raw footage shot in connection with his documentary Crude. Chevron Corporation requested the footage, intending to use it to defend itself in an Ecuadorian class-action lawsuit (filed against it for environmental contamination to the Amazon rainforest) as well as to help fend off the threatened criminal prosecution of two of its attorneys in the litigation.The brief was prepared pro bono by Donaldson's firm and filed in an effort to protect against the potentially devastating consequences the subpoena could have on the role documentary filmmakers play in providing independent information on human rights and social issues through their use of the First Amendment right known as Reporters' Privilege. A number of industry organizations and individuals signed on to the brief, including Film Independent, IFP Inc., Alex Gibney, and Eddie Schmidt, who was president of the International Documentary Association.Actor, director, and environmental activist Robert Redford, has made his thoughts on the issue known in public media platforms.

Digital Millennium Copyright Act
On July 26, 2010, the United States Copyright Office ruled that documentary filmmakers would be exempt from the provisions of the DMCA (Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998) that criminalize the act of circumventing electronic and digital copyright protection systems when ripping material from DVDs. The exemption was the result of an action spearheaded by Donaldson who assembled a coalition of award-winning documentarians and filmmaker organizations and provided pro bono legal council for the legal request.Prior to the ruling, documentary filmmakers were forced to use technically inferior methods to obtain copyrighted material permitted them by the fair use doctrine in United States copyright law. The exemption allows documentarians to legally obtain portions of encrypted or digitally locked material from DVDs for non-infringing use in their films.The exemption was in effect through October 28, 2012.  On October 26, 2012, the Librarian of Congress published a new set of exemptions, effective October 28, 2001 through October 28, 2015, that provide substantially the same filmmaker rights.

Net neutrality
Donaldson assisted in the effort to ensure that documentary filmmakers have the same rights as major studios in terms of the speed at which their films will be able to travel the internet. He, along with Jack I. Lerner and the USC Intellectual Property and Technology Law Clinic, organized the efforts on a pro-bono bases in support of the principle termed Net Neutrality. The fight was led by the International Documentary Association and was supported by such additional organizations as Film Independent, University Film & Video Association, Independent Filmmaker Project, Independent Feature Project Chicago, IFP Minnesota and National Alliance for Media Arts and Culture.
On January 2, 2011, the FCC ruled in favor of net neutrality in a 3-to-2 vote.

Lee & William Storey v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue
In support of the documentary film community's tax status, Donaldson, along with his firm's team of attorneys, prepared an amicus brief on a pro-bono basis urging the United States Tax Court to recognize that documentary films are overwhelmingly undertaken in the pursuit of a profit. It was filed in response to the Internal Revenue Service's challenge of filmmaker Lee Storey's business expenses associated with his documentary Smile ‘Til It Hurts: The Up With People Story.
During Storey's March 2011 trial, a judge expressed an inclination to hold that documentaries are intended to “educate and expose” rather than make a profit.
If documentary filmmaking were to be viewed by the IRS as merely a means to persuade or entertain – and not intended to turn a profit – documentarians would no longer be able to claim deductions incurred in the production of such films.On Thursday, April 19, 2012, U.S. Tax Court Judge Diane L. Kroupa recognized documentary filmmaking as a legitimate business and ruled that Storey can write off the entirety of her filmmaking losses, which were in the amount of hundreds of thousands of dollars.

Judge Learned Hand
On May 5, 2013, Los Angeles Review of Books – an online literary review journal that covers the American and international book scene – published Donaldson's review of the book Reason and Imagination: the Selected Correspondence of Learned Hand, a collection of Judge Learned Hand's personal letters. Aside from a few members of the US Supreme Court, Hand is the most-quoted judge in American history. In his extensive, 2700-word review, Donaldson describes the book as "a sweeping retelling of American history from one of its most intelligent, dispassionate participants."

Escape from Tomorrow
Donaldson was the key proponent in assuring the film Escape from Tomorrow fell under the fair-use doctrine and was insurable.
Escape from Tomorrow premiered at the Sundance Film Festival in January 2013. The film was shot entirely guerilla-style at Disney World and Disneyland without obtaining permission from the parks. The issue with getting the movie insured was not merely that it was shot secretly inside the parks, but that the movie is a parody of Disney that portrays a “darker” side, which goes against the company brand.In order to get the movie insured, Donaldson issued an opinion letter to the insurance company presenting a case for fair use, trademark, public domain, and access issues. The opinion letter was the longest that his office had ever written; it took 4 months to assemble. The E&O insurance policy was issued in the standard time of one week. The film was released to theaters and video on October 11, 2013.

The Central Park Five
Donaldson worked alongside New York attorney Andrew Cielli to prepare and file an amicus brief on behalf of documentary filmmakers Ken Burns, Sarah Burns, and David McMahon, who produced the documentary The Central Park Five. The brief was supported by the International Documentary Association, NAMAC, and Film Independent.The Central Park Five chronicles the story of five men wrongfully accused of raping a Central Park jogger in 1989. They were later exonerated after another man confessed and provided DNA evidence. Eight years later the wrongfully accused filed a 50 million dollar lawsuit against the state of New York, claiming their confessions were coerced and their case was mishandled. In its defense, the state of New York attempted to obtain outtakes from the film, claiming the documentarians forfeited their journalistic privilege because they advocated on behalf of the subjects of the documentary.Donaldson fought for the filmmakers, arguing that preservation of journalistic privilege is essential in order for documentarians’ work to be effective, despite how the story was discovered or how passionately they advocate for their subjects. On February 19, 2013, U.S. Magistrate Judge Ronald L. Ellis ruled in favor of the documentary filmmakers preserving their journalistic privilege.

Orphan works legislation
On April 2, 2014, Donaldson testified before the House Judiciary Committee in Washington, DC on behalf of the Independent Documentary Association and Film Independent on the subject of orphan works. Orphan words are copyrighted works whose owners cannot be contacted or found despite a diligent search. Donaldson's testimony urged Congress to consider documentary and independent filmmakers when crafting new legislation on orphan works since, under current law, filmmakers are at risk of being hit with huge damages when using unlicensed material, no matter how diligent a search for the owners.

As an author
Donaldson's Clearance & Copyright: Everything the Independent Filmmaker Needs to Know is used as a textbook in over 50 college and university film schools across America. He is also the author of Negotiating for Dummies, which has been translated into 9 languages, as well as Do It Yourself! Trademarks & Copyrights and Fearless Negotiating: The Wish, Want, Walk Method To Reaching Agreements That Work.
In 2010, Donaldson released The American Bar Association's Legal Guide To Independent Filmmaking, which he co-authored with his partner Lisa A. Callif.

Recognition
Donaldson was honored with the International Documentary Association's Amicus Award in 2009. He was included in The Hollywood Reporter's "Power Lawyers" list in 2010 and 2011. In 2012 he was included in Variety's Legal Impact Report 2012: Game-Changing Attorneys. And he was selected as a Super Lawyer in 2009, 2012 and 2013.

Bibliography
The E-Z Legal Guide to Trademarks & Copyrights (1995)
Do It Yourself! Trademarks & Copyrights (1995)
Clearance & Copyright: Everything the Independent Filmmaker Needs to Know (1996)
Negotiating for Dummies (1996)
Negotiating for Dummies 2nd Edition (2007)
Fearless Negotiating: The Wish, Want, Walk Method To Reaching Agreements That Work (2007)
Clearance & Copyright: Everything You Need to Know for Film and Television (2008)
The American Bar Association's Legal Guide To Independent Filmmaking (2010) (by Michael C. Donaldson & Lisa A. Callif)