Passage 1:
Baraki Barak airstrike
The Baraki Barak airstrike was a coalition airstrike that occurred on August 26, 2011, in Eastern Afghanistan. Six Afghan civilians from the same family were killed in the air strike in the Baraki Barak district of Logar province, Afghanistan. Four insurgents and three Afghan army members were also killed.Logar provincial police chief Ghulam Sakhi Rogh Lewani said the operation had targeted a Taliban commander, Qari Hijran, who had a bounty on his head. The top official in the district, Mohammad Rahim Amin, claimed that the incident occurred when a local teacher provided shelter for the commander in his home.
Passage 2:
Baraki Barak District
Baraki Barak District (Persian: ولسوالی برکی برک ; Pashto: برکي برک ولسوالۍ) is situated in the western part of Logar Province, Afghanistan. It borders Wardak Province to the west and northwest, Puli Alam District to the north and east and Kharwar and Charkh districts to the south. The district's population is around 101,000(2006) with a majority of over 90% Tajiks. The district center is the town of Baraki Barak - the former provincial capital, located in the northern part of the district in the valley of the Logar River. Baraki Rajan is another important town of this district which lies 4 km away from district center. The district is named after the historical Ormur tribe, also locally known as Baraki.

Politics and security
During the Soviet-Afghan War, the Soviet forces perpetrated the Baraki Barak massacre in September 1984.The Baraki Barak District Sub-Governor is Mohammad Rahim "Amin".  Mr. Rahim replaced Yasin Lodin in January 2010 Mr. Rahim called the first Shura for his newly elected District Community Council (DCC) in February 2010.  The 45 member council consists of elected representatives from the five sub-districts of Baraki Barak, religious leaders and five female representatives.  The DCC is sub-divided into three sectors: Security, Rule of Law and Development.   The female representatives will serve in the Development Sector.  According to the Afghanistan Social Outreach Program (ASOP), the community councils will also "strengthen security by fostering community solidarity, provide a forum for conflict resolution and provide quality assurance for sustainable development projects."
The 8 March marked the first time International Women's Day (IWD) was celebrated in Baraki Barak District.  76 burqa clad women began arriving at the District Center as early as 08:30.  General Khatol Mohammadzai was the keynote speaker at the ceremony and the only female General in the Afghan National Army (ANA).  General Mohammadzai is also the only woman to be airborne qualified with more than 500 free and competition parachute jumps.  General Mohammadzai spoke about the equality of men and women and expressed her hope that other women might follow in her footsteps and also fight for Afghanistan's future by joining the ANA.   The General is also an accomplished poet and has written poetry that proclaims the importance of women.  General Mohammadzai's poems condemn discrimination and harsh treatment of women.  Other speakers included Sub-Governor Rahim Amin and a female member of the Afghan Parliament – Dr. Shakila Hashimi.  Upon completion of the ceremony General Khatol Mohammadzai assisted in distributing humanitarian assistance to every woman attending the ceremony.
On 27 October 2009 the Baraki Barak District Center officially opened. The district center houses offices for the district sub-governor, the local mayor and three judges who handle everything from land disputes to criminal issues.On 22 November 2009 it was reported that several militants were detained in both the village of Kashimiri Bala and Ebrahim Kheyl in an attempt to locate a Taliban weapons facilitator actively operating in the area.On 23 November 2009 it was reported that a government employee was abducted in the district.According to some reports, as of 1 December 2009, insurgent activity has gone down as much as 80% since the summer of 2009 in the district capital although this could be attributed to the arrival of the winter months. The 2009 Afghan "surge" was stated to have created a security bubble for the district capital, covering about half of the district's population. However the increase in aid and US troops to the region has caused additional problems, as more civilians are targeted by the Taliban for co-operating with the government and foreign forces.
In 2008 the area experienced an influx of anti-government forces into the district. Around the beginning of 2009, no American troops were located in this district, a fact which has changed significantly as of the end of the same year as the new "Ink Spot" strategy was implemented in the area. As of 1 December 2009, at least 150 American troops from the 10th Mountain Division were located in the district, among others. Furthermore, attacks are down approximately 50% and thousands of refugees have begun to return to the area.

See also
Districts of Afghanistan
Passage 3:
Baraki Barak
Barakī Barak (Dari/Pashto/Ormuri: برکی برک) is a town and the center of Baraki Barak District, Logar Province, Afghanistan. It was also the former capital of Logar Province. The town is in a mountainous area in the valley of the Logar River. The main road Ghazni-Kabul passes about 20 km to the West of the town. The town is named after the historical Ormur tribe, also locally known as Baraki.

Ethnography
Baraki Barak has historically been home to the Ormur tribe, also known as "Burki" or "Baraki", and to other Pashtuns and Tajiks. The town is named after the Baraki people, some of whom still speak the Ormuri (Baraki) language; they live to the northwest and west of the town, and also inside the town.

See also
Kaniguram
Baraki Rajan
Passage 4:
Lunda Norte Province
Lunda Norte (English: North Lunda) is a province of Angola. It has an area of 103,760 km² and a population of 862,566. Angola's first President, Agostino Neto, made Lucapa the provincial capital after independence, but the capital was later moved to Dundo. The province borders the Democratic Republic of Congo in the northeast and Lunda Sul in the south. The province is rich in gold and diamonds, but remains vastly underdeveloped and impoverished. UNITA used the money generated from the sale of diamonds to fund war efforts. Cuango River valley, the richest diamond area of Angola is located in the province. Mining is done by notable companies like DeBeers and Endiama. The Lunda province whose capital was Saurimo was created by the Portuguese colonial empire on July 13, 1895. It was divided into Lunda-Sul and Lunda-Norte subdivisions through a constitution act in 1978 by the People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA) government. Iron and manganese mining are also important economic activities. It is well known for its sculptures. The most notable one is The Thinker (O Pensador), a sculpture of a man holding his head. It is rich in terms of flora and fauna.Lunda Norte is populated by Chokwe, Lunda, and other ethnical groups. Ernesto Muangala is the current governor of the province. Lino dos Santos, Deolinda Odia Paulo Satula Vilarinho and Ângêlica Nené Curita Ihungo are the deputy governors for Technical and Infrastructure Services, Economic Sector Area and Political and Social Sector Area respectively. An ethnographic museum located in the province is visited by many tourists. During the Angolan Civil War (1975-2002) many civilians were killed in the clashes between National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA) and Angolan Armed Forces (FAA). Diamond mining operations were also affected. Many landmines laid during the civil war are still present in the province. Leprosy and Elephantiasis are major disease which affect the province.

Municipalities
The province of Lunda Norte contains ten municipalities (Portuguese: municípios):

Capenda-Camulemba (Capemba-Camulemba)
Cambulo (Caumbo)
Caungula
Chitato (Tchitato)
Cuango
Cuilo
Lóvua
Lubalo
Lucapa
Shah-Muteba

Communes
The province of Lunda Norte contains the following communes (Portuguese: comunas); sorted by their respective municipalities:

Capemba-Camulemba Municipality: – Capenda-Camulemba, Xinge
Cambulo Municipality: – Cachimo, Cambulo, Canzar, Luia
Caungula Municipality: – Camaxilo, Caungula
Chitato Municipality: – Dundo-Chitato, Luachimo
Cuango Municipality: – Cuango, Luremo
Cuilo Municipality: – Caluango, Cuilo
Lóvua Municipality: – Lóvua
Lubalo Municipality: – Luangue, Lubalo, Muvulege (Muvuluege)
Lucapa Municipality: – Camissombo, Capaia, Lucapa, Xa–Cassau (Shah-Cassau)
Xá-Muteba Municipality: –  Cassanje-Calucala, Iongo, Xá-Muteba (Shah-Muteba)

List of governors of Lunda Norte
Up to 1991, the official name was Provincial Commissioner.
Passage 5:
Mahsud
The Mahsud or Mehsood (Pashto: محسود), also spelled Maseed (Pashto: ماسيد), is a Karlani Pashtun tribe inhabiting mostly the South Waziristan Agency in the former Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) of Pakistan, now merged within Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.A minor number of Maseed  are settled in the Logar Province of Afghanistan, especially in Charkh District, Baraki barak and Muhammad Agha, but also in Wardak, Ghazni and Kunduz Provinces.
The Maseeds inhabit the center and north of South Waziristan valley, surrounded on three sides by the Darweshkhel Wazirs, and being shut off by the Bettanis Pashtun tribe on the east from the Derajat and Bannu districts.
Two Pashtun tribes, the Ahmadzai Wazirs and the Maseeds (Mahsuds), inhabit and dominate South Waziristan. Within the heart of Maseed territory in South Waziristan lies the influential Ormur (Burki) tribe's stronghold of Kaniguram.The Ormurs are considered by other tribes of South Waziristan to be close brethren of the Maseeds due to marital and other ties and the fact that the Ormurs have lived in and controlled Kaniguram for over a thousand years. There are also some Maseeds living in the UAE, Germany and the United Kingdom.
The Maseeds  usually pronounce their name Māsīd. They are divided into three great clans or subtribes, namely Alizai, Bahlolzai, and Shamankhel.  Maseeds usually call these Drei Māsīd, meaning the "Three Maseeds". Each tribe has his own Khan.In the words of Sir Olaf Caroe, who acted as the former governor of the British Indian Frontier, "The Maseed tribe are a people who can never even think of submitting to a foreign power."  From 1860 to 1937, the English forces repeatedly attacked Maseed positions, but never got a foothold in the area.

History
The Maseeds  originally lived in the centre of Waziristan  area of FATA. In the later 14th century, they migrated eastwards, and fell into dispute with the Bannuchi and Khattak tribes settled in the Shawal area. The Maseeds and the Wazirs succeeded in defeating the Khattaks and pushed them northeastwards towards Bannu and Kohat. Eventually, the Mahsuds settled at the center of Waziristan, in the Makeen, Kaniguram and Lada area.During the British colonial period, the Maseeds were invaded several times by the British Empire, in 1860, 1881, 1894–95, 1900–01, 1919–20 and in 1925's Pink's War.

Primary locations
The Maseed tribe inhabits a large portion of the center of Waziristan, which is drained by the Tank Zam and Shahur Rivers. The Maseed territory is a rough triangle between Jandola, the hills north of Razmak, and from Shuidar to Janimela, north of Wana. No portion of their territory touches the "settled" districts, and the tribe is surrounded on the north and west by the Wazirs, on the east by the Bhittanis, and on the south by the Wazirs and Shranis.
With the exception of a few Shabi Khel in the Bannu District, some land near Gumal in the Tank Tehsil, and the colonies at Chark and elsewhere in the Logar Valley in Afghanistan, none of the Maseed own land outside of South Waziristan Agency. To escape the severe cold in the higher hills during the winter, a large number move down to the lower valleys but always keep within the Maseed territorial limits. Many of these people live in caves or tents.
"South Waziristan is mountainous with several high peaks; Pirghal, for example, being 11,600 feet. The Gomal is the main river, in addition to which there are many hill torrents, which…remain dry for most of the year."
The mountains and valleys geographically isolate the Maseed from large scale movements of invaders and provide excellent opportunities to conduct effective ambushes on enemies.
The cave villages along the Shahur River near Barwand and along the Split Toi provide excellent hiding places and defensive positions.

Culture
It is a tribal society having its own subculture. Nearly all Mehsud  follow Islamic traditions, celebrate the same holidays, dress the same, consume the same food, listen to the same music and are multi-lingual to a certain extent. In the southern and eastern region,  Mehsuds live in accordance with the Pashtun culture and are usually bilingual in maseedwola  also known as maseedo.

Migratory patterns
Many Maseed inhabit in the lower valleys during the winter. They return to family compounds at higher elevations during the summer.

Key terrain features
Valleys: Makeen, Wacha Khwara, Ladha, Baddar, Darra Algad, Khaisara, Mastang, Shaktu, Sheranna, Split Toi, Tak Zam
Plains: Razmak Malik Allah Neer:velleys Kotkai
Mountains: Kundeygaar, Pre Ghal, Spin Ghar, Spinkamar
Rivers: Tak Zam, Gomal, Shahur, Shinkai Toi, Baddar Toi, Split Toi, Lower Khaisara Toi, Tauda China, Kundygar, Osspass, Karrama, Torwam, Thangi Parkhai

Climate
The climate in the region is hot in summer, with high temperatures around 110 degrees Fahrenheit, and cool in winter, with low temperatures around 35 degrees Fahrenheit. There is modest rainfall in July and August and in January and February.

Recent history
On many occasions the Afghan throne was saved with the help of the Maseed (like general Ramzan Khan Maseed Shamankhel, Shabaram Khan Machikhel, Bakhan Maseed, Mosa Khan Maseed, Miajee Maseed, Jagar Maseed etc.), Burki/Baraki, and Wazirs from Waziristan, Pakistan. Of those who fought during this time, most came back to their homeland, but those who stayed were given high ranks of office, such as Faiz Muhammad Maseed, who was appointed as an interior minister during the Reign of Daud Khan in the 1970s.
Today the majority of Maseeds are still in Logar Province, with the title of Waziri, but by caste, they are Maseeds. The majority of these are with a sub-caste of Malik Denai, Dramankel, Faridi, Shamirai شمیرائی, Shabi khel, etc. When the Soviet–Afghan War started, some of these families came back to Waziristan but could not stay there, so they moved to cities like Peshawar and Karachi. Some of them stayed in Waziristan and D.I. Khan. The Maseed helped in  defeating the British invading troops and saved Afghanistan, they contributed a lot because Afghanistan was nearly in the hands of British.

John Ayde described the Maseeds:
They are poor but brave… and although turbulent and difficult to deal with, still have a great love of their country and cherish their independence, possessing qualities that we admire ourselves, and which deserve consideration and respect.
Maseed are very good marksmen and have the reputation of trustworthiness. Maseed is the most independent of all the tribes. Even their own maliks have a very limited control over them. However, Maseed have been increasingly integrated within Pakistani society since independence.

Sir Olaf Caroe in his book published just after partition of the British India about Mahsuds

They hold aloof, and are continually engaged in aggressive warfare against their Wazir cousins, at whose expense they have encroached to acquire new lands. And to those who know both tribes, they present a different appearance. Pass along a road which is being used by babirs, or caravans, of these tribes- men, and it is not so hard to distinguish one from the other, not by his dress, for that is much the same, but by something indefinable in his air and carriage. The nearest I can get to it is to liken the Mahsud to a wolf, the Wazir to a panther. Both are splendid creatures; the panther is slier, sleeker and has more grace, the wolf-pack is more purposeful, more united and more dangerous.

The Saintly Poet of the East (Dr. Allama Iqbal) has  also prayed for the dominant tribes of Waziristan

Sher Shah Suri has so well said:
The distinction of tribes is the cause of all ruin.
Waziris and Mahsuds are names dearest to heart;
Alas! They feel no pride in being Afghans.
The Muslims of the mountains are divided into thousand tribes,
And every tribe has its own idol.
The same sanctuary is filled with Lat and Manat;
May God grant you power to break them all.
                                                         Zarb-e-Kaleem (Iqbal)

In 1850, Lewat's tribesmen the Great Baromi's (Shabi Khel) defeated 3,000 British troops with only 300 fighters, using guerrilla tactics by attacking the British in the Valley of Bobar (Waziristan) from all sides with outdated rifles and swords. This attack demoralized the British and made them fearful of the Maseeds. Survivors of this attack reported that the sight of the Maseed tribesmen charging at them (with loud roars and wearing long hair and beards like Lions) affected them mentally.In 1860, three thousand Maseed tribesmen attacked the British regiment base in Tank (present South Waziristan). The British struggled to defeat them.In 1897, Mujahed tribesmen again stood up against the British all the way from Quetta kakar, and the British experienced difficulty when engaging them. It was during this time that the name of Mulla Powinda [Jagar Draman Khil][Miajee] [Laly Malik Denai] [Mulla ShaSaleem kaka] emerged. Powindah comes from the Pashto language, meaning "nomad".
Day after day, Mulla Powinda grew more popular and famous. His right hand mulla Shasaleem Kaka Machikhel was popular among Wazirs and Maseed tribe. He emerged as a legendary figure among the people of the region and beyond. There was even a time the British considered him to be the sole leader of the Waziristan country. His followers would sporadically kill individual British officers.  However, the British were not able to capture the attackers, who would return to their mountain hideouts. All attempts to stop these attacks were unsuccessful.In 1907, the Wazir and Maseed tribesmen were blocked from entry into any government-controlled territory. Economic sanctions were imposed, blocking even basic amenities, such as food and medicine. The British commander of that time blockaded the areas of Makeen and Kaniguram. Various areas were searched to arrest Mulla Powinda without success. The British thought that the tribesmen were receiving weapons by sea, from the coast of Balochistan and responded by creating check posts, but no weapons were confiscated.
Mulla Powindah died in 1913. It could be said that he was the crownless emperor of one of the most fearsome of the Pashtun Tribes, the Maseeds. Upon his death, his son Shah Fazal Din was given leadership and his son-in-law, Mulla Abdul Hakeem Kakar, was appointed his adviser. They have good relations with Amir Abdul Rahman Khan, the Amir of Afghanistan.When World War I started in 1915, the British were concerned that they would be engaged in battle on more than one front. This was a threat to their safety and economy, so they decided to close those fronts of lesser significance. They abandoned their ‘Forward Policy’ for the time being and sent a message of friendship and peace to the tribes. The tribes did not trust the British and rejected these peace proposals. Instead, the Maseed assembled a militia to attack the British.
By this time, the British had established an air force in the subcontinent, which was used to harass the tribesmen, and as a result the tribe's hatred of the British increased. As a result of their suffering, they were bent upon taking revenge, and hence their morale increased. A series of attacks were made by the Maseeds, inflicting heavy losses on the enemy. The attack on the Marhatta Regiment resulted in the deaths of hundreds of sepoys and five British Officers. In the attack on the Punjab Regiment, the Maseed warriors slaughtered everyone. The aerial bombardments had inflicted significant losses on the tribesmen, but they were content that they were also doing well and had killed around 250 of the enemy forces.
After the end of World War I, the British returned to Waziristan. This time, they built roads and forts throughout the land. The sophistication and constant patrols of the British Air Force helped create a secure atmosphere for their ground troops. With this sense of security, the British Army constructed a road from Jandola to Ladha. At Razmak, they constructed a cantonment for their army officers and soldiers.
By 1922–23, all the British forces had moved from Wana to Razmak. They had constructed an airport there and instead of flying all the way from India, their aircraft would fly from Razmak Airport and bomb the countryside. Because of this, the countryside of Makeen was totally devastated. The Maseed deemed it appropriate at this time to agree to a ceasefire because this new British tactic was inflicting widespread losses on their side. The ceasefire, they imagined, would also enable them to devise a strategy for countering the latest British advances.
In 1925, the Royal Air Force successfully put down a Maseed rebellion by strafing the tribes' mountain strongholds.  The action, which came to be known as Pink's War led to the tribal leaders seeking peace terms.In 1927 Ghazi Ramadan Khan Mahsud attacked Wana camp with a huge lashkar (tribal militia).  The result was a big loss for the British army. In 1928 Ghazi Ramadan Khan Mahsud  re-assembled his lashkar again for his next attack, on Sararogha Fort. This time he attacked with a powerful force, killed all of the defending soldiers (numbering 300) and took hold of the Fort.

Lashkar invasion of Kashmir
Immediately after Pakistan came into existence, Maseeds raised a tribal militia under Gaideen Khan Abdullai which entered Kashmir to help the newly created state Pakistan to capture Kashmir. They quickly reached Baramulla town, instead of pressing on to the capital, Srinagar, to seize Kashmir completely.A large number of tribals from Pakistan attacked Kashmir under the code name "Operation Gulmarg" to seize Kashmir. The invading tribals started moving along Rawalpindi-Murree-Muzaffarabad-Baramulla Road on 22 October 1947 with Muzaffarabad fell on 24 October 1947. They reached and captured Baramulla on 25 October 1947.

Culture
Pir Roshan is the first person who founded the Pashto alphabet. He was born in Kanygram of Waziristan. The Roshani Ghorzang was one of the great revolutions in the land of Pshtonkhwa. Mula Shasleem kaka, Mula Pawenda Maseed and Haji Mirza Ali Khan Fight several years for the unity of both side Pashtons.

Jarga
Maseed have a Maseed Jarga for large problems. The Jarga is a tribal assembly of elders which takes decisions by consensus, particularly among the Pashtun people.

Music and Attan
Attan, is the famous dance of Maseed tribe. Dhol is also widely used in Waziristan.

Mehsud Sub-tribes
Like other Pashtun tribes, the Mehsud tribe also has its own individual subtribes and clans:

Shaman Khel
Alizai
BahlolzaiThese subtribes are then divided into more clans amongst themselves.

Notable Mahsuds
Abdullah Mehsud
Alamzaib Mahsud
Baitullah Mehsud
Hakimullah Mehsud
Jamal Malyar Maseed
Kamal Mahsud
Manzoor Pashteen
Mulla Powinda
Naqeebullah Mehsud
Noor Wali Mehsud
Said Alam Mahsud
Salahuddin Khan Mehsud
Zaman Mehsud

See also
Pashtun culture#Mahsud Attan (dance)
Pashtun Tahafuz Movement
Passage 6:
Kathiawar Agency
The Kathiawar Agency, on the Kathiawar peninsula in the western part of the Indian subcontinent, was a political unit of some 200 small princely states under the suzerainty of the Bombay Presidency of British India.The agency's headquarters were at Rajkot, the town where the Political Agent used to reside. He reported to the Political Department office at Bombay, Bombay Presidency.

History
The agency was formed in 1822, after the princely states in the area became British protectorates.
The region was severely affected by the famine of 1899–1900. Between 1891 and 1901, the population of the states covered by the Agency decreased by 15 per cent, largely due to the results of the famine.On 10 October 1924, the agency was abolished and merged into the Western India States Agency, which had three subdivisions:
Eastern Kathiawar Agency (from 1926 onwards)
Western Kathiawar Agency (from 1926 onwards)
Sabar Kantha Agency (merged with Eastern Kathiawar Agency on 1 September 1943) including Banas Kantha Agency (former Palanpur Agency)

Princely states
There were altogether 193 states of varying size and importance, of which fourteen exercised independent jurisdiction, while the rest were to varying degrees under British administration. The eight states of the first class were Bhavnagar State, Dhrangadhra State, Gondal State, Jafarabad State, Junagadh State, Morvi State, Nawanagar State, and Porbandar State. The agency covered an area of 20,882 square miles (54,080 km2), and in 1901 the population was 2,329,196. The headquarters of the political agent (who oversaw the affairs of the princely states on behalf of the Governor-General) was at Rajkot, in the centre of the peninsula; this was also the site of the Rajkumar College, Rajkot, where many of the sons of the rulers were educated. There was a similar school for girasias, or chiefs of lower rank, at Gondal.
The estimated gross revenue of the several states was 1,278,000 rupees in 1911; total tribute (payable to the British, the Gaekwar of Baroda and the nawab of Junagadh), was 70,000 rupees.  An excellent system of metre-gauge railways was built at the cost of the leading states. Maritime trade was also very active, the chief ports being Porbandar, Mangrol and Veraval. In 1903–1904 the total seaborne exports were valued at 1,300,000 rupees, and the imports at 1,120,000.

See also
Western India States Agency
Passage 7:
Baraki Rajan
Baraki Rajan (Dari/Pashtun: برکی راجان) is a town within the Baraki Barak District of Logar Province, Afghanistan. Baraki Rajan lies approximately 3 km south of the town of Baraki Barak, the capital of the Baraki Barak District. Baraki Rajan is the location of the largest bazaar in the Baraki Barak District, with over 1,200 shops and businesses, with a 50+ bed hospital near the town center, making Baraki Rajan an important center for commerce within the District.
The population of mainly Tajiks  and Pashtuns is estimated at 15,000 people. The town is named after the historical Ormur tribe, also locally known as Baraki.

History
Baraki Rajan experienced some of the heaviest clashes between the Soviet forces and Afghan Mujaheddin fighters throughout the Soviet–Afghan War. Baraki Rajan based Mujaheddin would launch attacks on Soviet convoys traveling on the nearby Kabul-Gardez and Kabul-Kandahar highways, which would result in harsh reprisals from the Soviet military. Throughout the Soviet–Afghan War, the area remained an active battle ground between the Mujaheddin and the Soviet military and the Soviet-backed military of the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan.
According to a report by a Swedish committee in July 1982, in a massive operation by Soviet forces in Baraki Rajan, numerous war crimes were committed. In a three-day-long operation, villages were bombed, shops burnt and hundreds of people, including 208 resistance fighters and 25 children, were killed. Following this operation, Soviet-backed government control was never restored, not only in Baraki Rajan but the entire Baraki Barak District.Various Mujahideen groups were active in the area with Jamiat-e Islami being the most prominent and influential in the District.

Economy
The economy of Baraki Rajan, much like the rest of Baraki Barak district is heavily dependent on agriculture. Farmers grow wheat, grains, fruits and vegetables, utilizing deep-well and canal-flood irrigation techniques. Animal husbandry is another prominent source of income for individuals in the district, who raise sheep, cattle and goats. The town center has many businesses which support the local populace, including a large textile bazaar, bakeries, groceries, mechanic shops, electronic stores, hardware stores and medical and dental facilities.

Current security situation
Baraki Rajan sits on a faultline between ethnic Tajiks and Pashtuns. There are also political factions active in the area, notably Jamiat-e-Islami and Hizb-e-Islami, with histories of mutual antagonism dating back to the Afghan civil war of the early 1990s.
Local criminal gangs have also used the instability to align themselves with the Taliban. As government power in Baraki Rejan failed late 2008, Taliban-allied men from the Pashtun village of Shahmazar to the South of Baraki Rajan began preying on the area. "They walked around with weapons robbing the people," said one, who blamed Shahmazar gunmen for the attack
As a major center of commerce and culture within the Baraki Barak district, ISAF and Afghan forces stationed in nearby Baraki Barak since late 2008 have made Baraki Rajan a major focus of their counter-insurgency efforts, and Baraki Rajan has seen an increased security element stationed in Afghan National Army and Afghan National P
Passage 8:
Logar Province
Logar (Dari: لوگر, lit. 'greater mountain'; Pashto: لوې غر) is one of the 34 provinces of Afghanistan located in the eastern section of the country. It is divided into 7 districts and contains hundreds of villages. Ahmadzai Pashtuns are influential in this region. Puli Alam is the capital of the province. As of 2021, Logar has a population of approximately 442,037. It is a multi-ethnic tribal society consisting of Pashtuns and Tajiks, with a 60% Pashtun majority.The Logar River enters the province through the west and leaves to the north.

History
Pre Islamic era
A 2,600-year-old Zoroastrian fire temple was found at Mes Aynak (about 25 miles or 40  kilometers southeast of Kabul). Several Buddhist stupas and more than 1,000 statues were also found. Smelting workshops, miners’ quarters (even then the site's copper was well known), a mint, two small forts, a citadel, and a stockpile of Kushan, Sassanian and Indo-Parthian coins were also found at the site.

Recent history
During the Soviet–Afghan War, Logar was known among some Afghans as the Bab al-Jihad (Gates of Jihad) because it became a fierce theatre of war between US-backed/trained mujahideen groups and the Soviet-backed Afghan government troops. Ahmadzai Pashtuns is dominant in this region. Haji Shuja, Haji Zareen and Haji Bahadur were the prominent traders and chieftains in the region before the soviet invasion of Afghanistan. It was one of the main supply routes of mujahideen rebels coming from Pakistan. Like other parts of the country, Logar has also seen heavy fighting since the Soviets started a crackdown against the elders of the Ahmadzai tribe during the 1980s.  Swedish journalist Borge Almqvist, who visited the province in 1982, wrote that: "Everywhere in the Logar province the most common sight except for ruins are graves". Soviet operations included using bombing, the use of flammable liquids to burn alive people in hiding, poisoning of drinking water, and destruction of crops and farmland. One writer who witnessed the events argues that the Soviet actions in Logar amounted to genocide.By 1995, the province had fallen to the Taliban government. After the removal of the Taliban and the formation of the Karzai administration in late 2001, the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) and Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) gradually took over security of the area. The Provincial Reconstruction Team Logar (PRT Logar) was established in March 2008. It provided several benefits to the locals, including security, development, and jobs.
In the meantime, Taliban insurgents are often causing major disturbances in the area. This includes major attacks on key projects, suicide bombings in civilian areas, and assassinations of Afghan government employees. On 19 August 2014, a major Taliban offensive took place with 700 militants aiming to take control of the province, while the NATO-led foreign force mistakenly killed three civilians in an airstrike in December 2014.On 20 January 2019, the Taliban claimed responsibility for a car bomb attack on the province's governor and his convoy, which killed eight security forces and wounded at least 10 on the highway to Kabul. The governor and the provincial head of the National Directorate of Security were uninjured.On 14 August 2021, the Taliban offensive reached Puli Alam (the province capital), and the province of Logar fell to the Taliban, setting their sights to Kabul the following day.

Geography
Logar can be generally described as a relatively flat river valley in the north and central regions, surrounded by rugged mountains to the east, south, and southwest. The district of Azra, in the east, consists almost entirely of mountains, while travel to the Paktia Province to the south is limited to the Tera Pass, a 2896 m high road that was recently completed as part of the international reconstruction effort in Afghanistan. The Kabul-Khost Highway runs north–south through Logar Province, from the Mohammed Agha District.
The government of Afghanistan officially recognizes all the districts of the Logar province as part of the province.

Capital city
Puli Alam is the capital city of Logar province, located in the district of Puli Alam. It's on the main road running south and southeast from Kabul to Khost.
Rebuilding of the city is going on. There is a lot of room for infrastructure and investment.
Puli Alam has seen reconstruction since the fall of the Taliban. The main road to Kabul was completed in 2006, significantly reducing travel time to the national capital. Additional projects include numerous schools, radio stations, government facilities, and a major Afghan National Police base situated south of the city.
The city is open for investment.
Like many Afghan cities, there is municipal planning and services.
During the tenure of President Ashraf Ghani the city gained electricity, clean drinking and water facilities.

Economics
Logar is an agricultural province with a wealth of minerals such as copper and chromite. In terms of industry, the province has one textile and one copper factory. Agriculture, commerce and services, and livestock products account for the majority of commercial operations. Agriculture is a significant source of income for 31% of households. However, commerce and services provide income to 30% of rural households, while non-farm-related labor provides income to 46% of rural households. Tobacco and sugar extract are the two most important industrial crops. The main industry is honey production, which is a small industry. Jewelry, ceramics, and carpets are made in a small number of settlements. Eighty-four percent of the province's households have access to irrigated land. Wheat, maize, potatoes, alfalfa, clover, and other feed are among the most significant field crops. Sheep, cattle, camels, and poultry are the most frequent livestock.

Healthcare
The percentage of households without clean drinking water fell from 45% in 2005 to 14% in 2011.  
The percentage of births attended to by a skilled birth attendant increased from 9% in 2005 to 73% in 2011.In 2008, the province of Logar has 32 health clinics and a 137-bed hospital. According to data from 2008, the Ministry of Health employs 48 doctors and 218 other health professionals in the province. There are 156 pharmacies in the province. The majority of villages do not have a permanent health worker. To access their nearest health center, the majority of the populace must travel 5 to 10 kilometers.

Education
The overall literacy rate (6+ years of age) increased from 21% in 2005 to 30% in 2011.  
The overall net enrolment rate (6–13 years of age) increased from 22% in 2005 to 45% in 2011.The overall literacy rate in Logar province was 21% in 2005 however, while nearly one-third (31%) of men are literate this is true for just under one-tenth (9%) of women. There are around 168 primary and secondary schools in the province catering for 81,538 students. There are nearly 2,082 teachers working in schools in the Logar province. There are several girls schools in the province, mostly located in Koshi and Pul-e-alam. Due to the large Taliban presence in Chark and Baraki Barak, the freedom of women in Logar does not always allow for an education. As of 2007, the province had a literacy rate of 17%.There are 19 religious centers including a Dar-ul-Ulum, three Darul Hifaz and the rest are Madrasas.Three technical and vocational high schools and two private high schools function in Logar Province.

Demographics
As of 2021, the total population of Logar province is about 442,037. Logar is dominantly Sunni, multi-ethnic and a tribal society. Pashtuns and Tajiks  make up the majority population of Logar province, while minority.7.2 percent of the population lived below the national poverty line, the lowest of all of Afghanistan's provinces.In 2008, the population of Logar was estimated to be at 349,000 people. The province has 44,209 households, with an average of eight individuals per home. Rural districts are home to 72 percent of the population. Farsi/Dari is spoken by two-thirds of villages and 60% of the population, whereas Pashto is spoken by one-third of villages and 40% of the people. Kochi people(nomads) live in the province of Logar, and their numbers fluctuate with the seasons. In the winter, 96,280 people, or 4% of the Kochi people population, stay in Logar and live in 29 settlements. During the summer, the Kochi people population swells to 208,339, making Logar the province with the second-highest number of Kochi people after Kabul province.

Districts
Until 2005 the district was administratively subdivided into five districts. In that year the province gained Azra District from neighboring Paktia Province; also part of Charkh District was split off into the new district of Kharwar.

Sport
Cricket is the most popular sport in the province. Logar has been a major supplier of players for the Afghanistan national cricket team. Former players include Dawlat Ahmadzai, Ahmad Shah Pakteen and former national team captain Raees Ahmadzai. Among the active national players hailing from Logar are: Mohammad Nabi (captain of the national team), Shahpoor Zadran, Hashmatullah Shahidi, Nasir Jamal Ahmadzai and Gulbadin Naib Ahmadzai.
Football is the second most popular sport in the province. De Abasin Sape (meaning "Waves of Abasin") plays in the Afghanistan Premier League. Abasin means "father of the rivers" in Pashto and refers to the Indus River. The team represents the provinces of Khost, Paktia, Logar, and Paktika.
Other popular sports are volleyball, boxing, taekwondo, Washoe, kick boxing and wrestling.

See also
Provinces of Afghanistan
Mes Aynak – the world's second largest copper deposit
Passage 9:
Forward Operating Base Shank
Forward Operating Base Shank (IATA: OAA, ICAO: OASH, also known as Rocket City) is a former Forward operating base of the U.S. military, located in Logar Province of eastern Afghanistan, about 12 km south-east of the city of Baraki Barak.  During Operation Enduring freedom, FOB Shank was one of the most heavily rocketed forward operating bases in Afghanistan.  In 2014, the base was turned over to Afghan National Army, who established Camp Maiwand at the northern end of the FOB.  American forces later returned and reoccupied the southern portion of the FOB, under the name Camp Dahlke.

History
In 2008 FOB Shank was built by Alpha Company of the 508th Special Troops Batalion of the 82nd Airborne Division with assistance from the 555th Engineer Battalion. The FOB was dedicated after SSG Michael A. Shank, an who was killed in the Logar Province in 2006. International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) used the base to train the Afghan National Police (ANP).  The Police Academy, led by a U.S. Police Mentoring Training team, cooperated daily with the Czech Provincial Reconstruction Team Logar, composed of 200 Czech Soldiers and about 10 civilians.
These efforts were focused on training the Afghanistan National Auxiliary Police to become members of the ANP.
As of 8 July 2008, Czech and Afghan instructors were teaching the fourth group of cadets at the Academy. Each group attended a three-week cycle which included first-aid treatment, tactics, patrolling, weapons training, vehicle-check-point procedures and many other police-related subjects. The practical part of the training also included scenarios where cadets were ambushed by simulated oppositional forces.During 2014 the base was downsized partly by 252 Engineer Company, 133rd Engineer Battalion and was turned over to the ANA.  The ANA utilized the northern portion of the base only, which they renamed Camp Maiwand.The last few convoys containing equipment from FOB Shank back to Bagram Airbase were completed during October 2014 by the 730th Transportation Company, 419th Combat Sustainment Support Battalion, 4th Resolute Support Sustainment Brigade.Following the shutdown of FOB Shank, a new American base was established at the southern end of the perimeter, called FOB Dahlke or Camp Dahlke.  Camp Dahlke was expanded in 2018 to support the deployment of the 1st Security Force Assistance Brigade. Camp Dahlke had facilities to house 800 soldiers.

Deployed units
Aviation

October 2008-October 2009
101st Airborne
October 2009–October 2010
3rd Infantry Division 4-3 AVN Battalion "BRAWLER" under Lt. Col Ault
December 2008-December 2009
710BSB 3RD IBCT 10th MTN2010–2010 10th Mountain

April 2011
10th Combat Aviation Brigade
Company F, 2nd Battalion (Aviation Support)
August 2011–August 2012
82nd Combat Aviation Brigade (TF Corsair)
Unknown Company, 3rd Battalion
All Companies, 2nd Battalion, 82nd Aviation Regiment (UH-60M)
Company B, 3rd Battalion, 82nd Aviation Regiment (CH-47F)
Company B, 2nd Battalion, 135th Aviation Regiment (CH-47)
Company F, 1st Attack Battalion, 1st Air Combat Brigade, 227th Aviation Regiment, 1st Cavalry Division (Gray Eagle) (3/2012 - 03/2013) – first unit to operate Gray Eagle at Shank. This company was deployed as a standalone company and attached to the 82nd Airborne Division upon arrival to Shank. After TF Corsair left, F 227 was attached to the incoming unit until its tour of duty was completed.
Elements of 122nd Aviation Support Battalion
June – December 2013
10th Combat Aviation Brigade (TF Knighthawk)
Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 2nd Assault Battalion, 10th Aviation Regiment
Company C, 2nd Assault Battalion, 10th Aviation Regiment (UH-60M)
Company E, 2nd Assault Battalion, 10th Aviation Regiment (Aviation Support)
Company A, 2nd Assault Battalion, 10th Aviation Regiment (AH-64)
Company B, 3rd General Support Aviation Battalion, 10th Aviation Regiment (CH-47F)
Company C, 3rd General Support Aviation Battalion, 10th Aviation Regiment (HH-60M)
December 2013–August 2014Taskforce Wings
4-101 Aviation Regiment

Taskforce Lift
Company C (DUSTOFF), 7-101 General Support Aviation Battalion, 159th Combat Aviation Brigade, 101 Airborne Division
6-101 Aviation Battalion, 159th Combat Aviation Brigade, 101 Airborne Division
2014
82nd Combat Aviation Brigade (TF Pegasus)Company E, 1st Attack Reconnaissance Battalion, 82nd Aviation Regiment (UH-60)
Company F, 2nd Attack Helicopter Battalion, 82nd Aviation Regiment
Company B, 3rd General Support Helicopter Battalion, 82nd Aviation Regiment using the Boeing CH-47F Chinook
Company B, 122nd Aviation Support Battalion
October 2014
Company B, 1st General Support Aviation Battalion, 169th Aviation Regiment (CH-47)
May 2016 – Unknown
40th Combat Aviation BrigadeCompany C, 1st Battalion, 104th Aviation Regiment (DUSTOFF)
Company F, 2nd Battalion, 238th Aviation Regiment (UH-60)
Company B, 1st Battalion, 140th Aviation Regiment
1st Battalion, 10th Aviation Regiment (AH-64)
2018
101st Combat Aviation Brigade (TF Eagle Assault)
5th Battalion, 101st Aviation Regiment (CH-47, UH-60, AH-64E)
Company B, 3rd General Support Battalion, 25th Aviation Regiment (CH47F)
2019
1st Armored Division, Combat Aviation Brigade (TF Apocalypse)
3rd Battalion (UH-60)
16th Combat Aviation Brigade, B Company (CH-47) "Sugarbears"
1st Combat Aviation Brigade, 1-1 Attack Battalion, Bravo Company (AH-64E) "Wolf Pack" "LUOFY"
2-10 Combat Aviation Brigade, 10th Mountain DivisionGround forces

A, B and C Companies, 710th Brigade Support Battalion, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 10th Mountain Division between December 2008 and 2009 and December 2009.
Alpha Battery, 4th Battalion, 319th Airborne Field Artillery Regiment, 173rd Airborne Brigade Combat Team during July 2012.
M777 howitzer
M119 howitzer
A Co, 1st Battalion – 41st Infantry Regiment, 3rd Infantry Brigade Combat Team, 1st Armored Division during 2011–2012.
3rd Infantry Brigade Combat Team, 1st Armored Division from Fort Bliss, Tx, from 2011–2012.
628th Forward Surgical Team, from San Antonio, Tx, 2011–2012
Elements of 427th BSB (NY ARNG) attached to 401st AFSB during 2011–2012
1st Squadron (Airborne) 91st Cavalry, 173rd Airborne Brigade Combat Team, June 2012–March 2013.
102nd Sapper Company, 307th Engineer Battalion, June 2012- March 2013
6th Squadron, 8th Cavalry Regiment, 4th Infantry Brigade Combat Team, 3rd Infantry Division, March 2013–November 2013.
Bravo Company “Mongoose Bravo” 1st Battalion, 5th Cavalry Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, August 2013–March 2014
710th Brigade Support Battalion and 2nd Battalion, 87th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 10th Mountain Division between October 2013 and July 2014
388th Clearance Company, January 2014–October 2014.
B CO, 1st Battalion – 502nd Infantry Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 101st Airborne (Air Assault) Division during January 2014–October 2014.
2nd Squadron 3rd Cavalry Regiment between June 2014 to October 2014.
1982nd Forward Surgical Team during 2015.
Alpha Battery 1st Battalion 265th ADA Regiment; 164th ADA Brigade Florida Army National Guard, June 2015–February 2016 ADA
207th Engineer Construction Company, Over The Horizon, 2017
136th Combat Sustainment Support Battalion during October 2017.
2-174 ADA C-RAM (Ohio National Guard) 2017–2018
659th Engineer Construction Company, Over The Horizon, 2017–2018
2nd Squadron 1st Cavalry Regiment, Fort Carson 2018–2019
Elements of 495th Combat Sustainment Support Battalion 2018–2019.
3rd Platoon, Alpha Company, 1-38 Infantry Battalion, 1st SBCT, 4th ID. 2018–2019
Elements of the 329th Combat Sustainment Support Battalion, TF Viking 2019–2020
801st Engineering Company, Over The Horizon, 2019
829 Engineering Company, TF Over The Horizon, 2020
Bravo and Delta Co and Headquarters Elements of the 1st Battalion 178 Infantry Regiment (Illinois National Guard) TF Southeast, September 2019–January 2020.
Elements of Bravo Company and HHC 1st Battalion 508th Parachute Infantry Regiment, 3BCT, 82ND ABN DIV (TF FURY), October 2019–January 2020
10th Mountain 1-32 Infantry

See also
List of ISAF installations in Afghanistan
Passage 10:
Camptown (country subdivision)
A camptown, in the country of Lesotho, refers to a district capital for one of the ten districts of Lesotho. The largest camptown is the city of Maseru in Maseru District. Camptowns are usually commerce hubs for the district and are the location for the central government offices for the district. Camptowns usually take the same name as the district in which they are located. For example, as mentioned the camptown for Maseru is Maseru but also the camptown for Thaba-Tseka District is Thaba-Tseka. The exceptions to this rule are Berea District whose capital is called Teyateyaneng, Quthing District whose capital is called Moyeni and Leribe District whose capital is most often called Hlotse.
It presumably derives from the 19th century police camps, then (now archaic) in Sesotho likampo. Official colonial government terminology was government reserve, which prosaically became urban area post-independence.