Passage 1:
Victor Diamond Mine
The Victor Mine was the first Canadian diamond mine located in Ontario, and De Beers' second diamond mine in Canada (after the Snap Lake Diamond Mine). It is located in the Northern Ontario Ring of Fire, in the James Bay Lowlands 90 kilometres (56 mi) west of Attawapiskat in the remote northern part of the province. In June 2005, the Attawapiskat First Nation voted in favour (85.5%) of ratifying the Impact Benefit Agreement (IBA). Construction of the mine began in February 2006 which created 3200 positions; mining and operations will create around 400 permanent positions. The Victor Mine is an open-pit mine, with a processing plant, workshops, and an airstrip located on site. By 2013–2014 royalties collected from De Beers Victor Mine amounted to $226. At that time De Beers was continuing to pay off its "$1 billion investment to build the mine and from now until it closes, the company expects to pay tens of millions of dollars in royalties." The mine completed mining and processing in 2019 and has moved to a shut-down phase including demolition of infrastructure and rehabilitation of the site.

History
De Beers started looking for Kimberlite Pipes within Canada in the 1960s. "The Victor Mine was developed within a cluster of 16 kimberlite pipes that were discovered in the James Bay Lowlands near Attawapiskat in 1987."  In 1995 the pipes of the James Bay Lowland area were re-examined and interest was renewed in the Victor Mine Project. The cost feasibility of mining Victor diamonds was done in 2002. In 2005, the Project gained approval after an environmental assessment by the Federal and Provincial government and soon after construction began. In 2007, the Moose Cree First Nations peoples signed in favour of the Victor mine and the first successful productions of diamonds began. June 20, 2008, Victor Mine entered the production phase. De Beers celebrated its opening July 26 and reached an agreement with the Government of Ontario to allow up to 10% of the mine's production to be available to the cutting and polishing industry in Ontario. In October 2009, the Victor Mine was voted “Mine of the year” by readers of the international trade publication called Mining Magazine.

Geology
The area is composed of 18 kimberlite pipes of the Attawapiskat kimberlite field, 16 of which are diamondiferous, the Victor Mine sits on top of the Victor pipe and mines from Victor Main and Victor Southwest which have appeared close enough to the surface to be used in an open-pit mine. The Victor Kimberlite is a composition of pyroclastic crater facies and hypabyssal facies, and is considered to have a highly variable diamond grade.

Mining
It is an open-pit mine; the equipment there is 100 tonne trucks, large front-end loaders, bulldozers and other necessary support equipment used in the mining operation. The annual production rate is 2.7 million tonnes a year, which comes to about 600,000 carats a year in diamond grade.

Operations
There is year-round access via air travel and only seasonal access over land depending on whether the weather permits travel. On the property are warehouses for storage, a processing plant, workshops, offices, fuel storage facilities, pit-dewatering machinery and an airstrip (the Victor Mine Aerodrome) for travel needs. The site also has recreational and dorm buildings for the permanent staff. The life of the mine is expected to be twelve years and the total project life is seventeen years and each year the processing plan is designed to treat 2.5 million tonnes of kimberlite per year (roughly 7100 tonnes a day).

Tom Ormsby, director of external and corporate affairs for De Beers Canada claims that the great colour (whiteness), natural shapes, clearness and quality of the Victor diamonds ranks them with the highest stones in the world."Victor is forecasted to have a 17-year cradle-to-grave life. That includes construction, an estimated 12 years of operation and then winding down to closure and rehabilitation of the site."

Performance
The mine had produced at a high level of performance leading to "[f]urther exploration of the site" with the "hope that De Beers will uncover another source of diamonds within close proximity of the existing operation." 826,000 carats were mined at Victor Mine in 2010 and "$93 million was spent on goods and services and $49 million (53 per cent) was supplied by Aboriginal businesses.""No corporate, federal, provincial taxes or government royalties other than personal income taxes were paid in 2010 as the company was in a loss position for tax purposes." However, De Beers Canada "injected approximately $474,900,000 into the Canadian economy in 2010" through both mines, Snap Lake and Victor Mines.In 2011, De Beers paid total wages and benefits of about $55.5 million to Victor employees. According to the Ontario Mining Association, in 2011 "$101 million was spent on goods and services" by De Beers "with about $57 million, or 57%, being provided by Aboriginal businesses."

Exploration
Tom Ormsby, claimed that "The high quality of the Victor diamonds and the vastness of the Canadian shield points to great potential for another diamond mine being developed in northeastern Ontario." The "Canadian Shield has great potential to host diamonds" and potential in Canada "appears to be at least twice as good as what southern Africa has held for potential for diamonds.""There are approximately eight years remaining on the forecast life of mine for Victor.  In efforts to keep things going and extend this time frame, advanced exploration is currently underway at Victor on 15 previously identified diamond-bearing kimberlite pipes."

Environmental and human concerns
So far, De Beers Canada employees and its contract partners have safely worked more than four million hours without a Lost Time Injury. Other human concerns are the mine's impact on the First Nations people and the company's pledge to help promote community growth will affect certain communities more than others.Concerns were brought up regarding the mine's impact on the surrounding area. Since it is an open pit mine it would disturb the natural environment. The impact area is 5,000 hectares of land. The first concern was raised in 2005, when environmental groups called on the Ontario government to perform its own environmental impact assessment aside from the Federal one as it was believed the Federal assessment did not fully assess the situation, including long term harm on the wildlife, wilderness and the water systems found there. However, the Project did receive an ISO 14001 certification.The environmental assessment process was later criticized for its restricted scope, namely for focusing primarily on the Attawapiskat First Nation, and largely excluding other potentially affected First Nations.

Attawapiskat First Nation
De Beers Victor Diamond Mine is on Attawapiskat First Nation traditional land. An Impact-Benefit Agreement (IBA) was signed with community leaders in 2005 with Danny Metatawabin, acting as coordinator for the Impact-Benefit Agreement (IBA) between De Beers and Attawapiskat. Community members later protested the agreement through demonstrations and roadblocks claiming that the community's share of the "bounty from the mine isn't getting back to the community." De Beers has negotiated a lease area. Although it is acknowledged that the mine is on Attawapiskat traditional land, the royalties from Victor Mine flow to the Government of Ontario, not Attawapiskat First Nation. As of 2015, De Beers was paying up to $2 million per year to Attawapiskat.  That payment is split between a trust fund controlled by the chief and council and the rest, which is used for community development and to pay Attawapiskat members who manage the band’s impact benefit agreement with De Beers, says Attawapiskat member Charlie Hookimaw.
The trust fund now totals $13 million. In 2014, the community received about $1 million; $480,000 went to business relations and $545,868 was spent on community development, Hookimaw says. They have 500 full-time employees with 100 from Attawapiskat First Nation. De Beers also employs Attawapiskat First Nation in winter road construction. The "mine employs 100 people from Attawapiskat at any one time. It generates about $400 million in annual revenue for the company." Sub-contractors from Attawapiskat First Nation also work for the mine."A federal review of the relationship between De Beers' Victor mine and Attawapiskat showed that government support for training and capacity did not start soon enough to deal with the huge lack of skills in the First Nation.""Training is carried out on a year-round basis at the Victor Mine site as well as at the De Beers Canada Training Facility in Attawapiskat."

See also
De Beers
List of diamond mines
Lake Timiskaming kimberlite field
Northern Ontario
Passage 2:
Dry Fork Mine
The Dry Fork mine is a coal mine located 8 miles north of Gillette, Wyoming in the United States in the coal-rich Powder River Basin. The mine is an open pit mine that utilizes truck and shovel mining method to mine a low-sulfur, sub-bituminous coal that is used for domestic energy generation and shipped to customers via railroad. In 2011, the mine began supplying coal to the newly constructed Dry Fork power station that was constructed adjacent to the mine. The mine is currently owned and operated by Western Fuels Association.As of 2009, Dry Fork had reserves of 330 mm tons of sub-bituminous coal and a maximum permitted production capacity of 15mm tons per year. Typical annual production has been in 5.2mm ton range for the last several years though. In 2008, the mine produced just over 5.2 million short tons of coal, making it the 37th-largest producer of coal in the United States.The average quality of the coal shipped from Dry Fork is 8,050-8,200 BTU/lb, 0.20-0.42% Sulfur, 3.8-5.1% Ash, and 1.50% Sodium (of the ash). Train loading operations at the mine are done with a batch weigh bin system that is coupled to a "weigh-in-motion" track scale system. Silo capacity at the mine's rail loop, which can accommodate a single unit train, is 10,800 tons.

History
The Dry Fork mine shipped its first coal to members of the Western Fuels Association in 1990 and is run by Western Fuels-Wyoming an associate of Western Fuels. Since opening, Dry Fork has shipped 69.5mm tons of coal.

Production
Passage 3:
Tundra Mine
The Tundra Mine is a gold mine that operated in the Northwest Territories, of Canada between 1962 and 1968, producing 104,476 troy ounces (3,249.6 kg) of gold, from 187,714 tons of ore. Indian and Northern Affairs Canada has a project to remediate the Tundra Mine site under their Northern Contaminants Program, funded by the Canadian Federal Contaminated Sites Action Plan.

External links
Tundra Mine: Indian and Northern Affairs Canada
Passage 4:
Franklin-Creighton Mine
The Franklin-Creighton Mine was a Georgia Gold Rush gold mine located off what is now Yellow Creek Road in the town of Ball Ground in Cherokee County, Georgia.  The mine, located along the Etowah River, was initially known as the Franklin Mine because it was started by a widow, Mrs. Mary G. Franklin, who obtained a 40-acre (160,000 m2) lot in the Gold Lottery of 1832.   Around 1883, the mine became known as the Creighton Mine or the Franklin-Creighton Mine.  This mine was one of the most productive and continued to operate many years after other area mines had ceased operations.  Some estimate that it was yielding $1000 per day in 1893 and others place its total production after 1880 at as much as $1,000,000.  The mine was shut down in 1913 as a result of a collapsed shaft which caused the mine to flood. As of 2022, only three major structures exist: The stamping mill's concrete foundation (which has been rebuilt into a pavilion for the nearby housing development site), the Franklin residence and doctor's office, and the "Shingle House," the mine's former post office and general store.

Sources
A Brief History of Cherokee County (accessed December 4, 2006)
Georgia Historical Marker – Cherokee County Gold (accessed December 4, 2006)
Passage 5:
Tundra Mine/Salamita Mine Aerodrome
Tundra Mine/Salamita Mine Aerodrome (TC LID: CTM7) is a registered aerodrome that served the Tundra and Salmita Mines in the Northwest Territories, Canada.
Passage 6:
Raspadskaya coal mine
The Raspadskaya Coal Mine is a coal mine located in Mezhdurechensk, Kemerovo Oblast, Russia. It is the largest coal and the largest underground mine in Russia. The mine was opened in 1973 and its construction was completed in 1977. In addition to the main underground mine, the mining complex also includes MUK-96 underground mine, Raspadskaya Koksovaya underground mine, and Razrez Raspadsky open-pit mine, as also the Raspadskaya preparation plant. The mine is the largest coal mine in Russia.Raspadskaya's total resources were estimated at 1,461 million tons and total coal reserves at 782 million ton (JORC standards, according to IMC Consulting report as of June 2006, of which 22 million tons produced by 31 March 2008). Based on the volume produced in 2007, reserves-to-production ratio amounts to about 55 years of production. The complex produces 10% of Russia's coking coal.The mine is owned and operated by Raspadskaya OAO, a Russian publicly listed coal company.
In March 2001, a methane explosion killed four miners and injured six. The mine was shut down for two weeks in 2008 due to safety violations and a worker was killed after part of the mine collapsed in January 2010. On 8 May 2010, an explosion occurred killing 66 workers.In 2022, a remote sensing satellite found that the mine was releasing 87 metric tons, or 95 short tons, of methane each hour. Scientists who study methane leakage said the size was unprecedented. By contrast, the worst rate that occurred at the Aliso Canyon gas leak in California was 60 metric tons an hour.
Passage 7:
Salmita Mine
The Salmita Mine was a gold producer in the Northwest Territories, Canada during 1983 to 1987. The deposit was first discovered in 1945 and underground exploration was carried out in 1951–1952. It was reactivated for exploration by Giant Yellowknife Mines Limited in 1975 and entered production in 1983. They used the old camp and milling plant of the abandoned Tundra Mine, located a few kilometres to the south. The mine produced 179,906 troy ounces (5,595.7 kg) of gold from the milling of 238,177 tons of ore.
The area is now owned by Seabridge Gold.
Passage 8:
Colomac Mine
The Colomac Mine was a privately owned and operated open pit gold mine located 200 km northwest of Yellowknife in the Northwest Territories in Canada . The Colomac mine operated between 1990–1992, and 1994–1997. It was operated by Neptune Resources Limited that had little success in making a profit during its operation. In 1994, the mine had reopened under Royal Oak Mines Inc. Both Neptune Resources and Royal Oak Mines where both owned and operated by Peggy Witte.  Due to low gold prices and high cost of mining, Royal Oak Mines was forced into bankruptcy. The Federal Government of Canada became owners of the mine, along with the related environmental issues. A major cleanup effort was completed to prevent the mine from polluting the environment. On January 26, 2012, Nighthawk Gold Corporation completed an agreement to acquire 100% of the mineral claims and leases of the former producing Colomac Gold Mine and surrounding mineral leases (Colomac Property), from then Aboriginal Affairs and Northern Development Canada (AANDC) now Crown Indigenous Relations and Northern Affairs Canada (CIRNAC). The Colomac Property lies within the central portion of Nighthawk Gold’s 930 square kilometre property. Nighthawk Gold has since been responsibly exploring and advancing the Colomac Gold Project with the goal to restart gold mining operations in the future, assuming positive economics and the receipt of operating permits.

Production
The Colomac Mine processed a total of almost 12,300 Megagrams of ore, and produced 16.7 Megagrams (535,708 troy ounces) of gold, with an approximate value of $916 million. This figure is based on 2012 gold prices, averaging close to USD $55,000 per kg.
In April 2007, Indian and Northern Affairs Canada engaged the Professional Services company Deloitte & Touche LLP to become their solicitor, in order to find another independently-owned and -operated company to acquire the idle mine as well as the resources on the land it occupied. To generate interest, they featured the mine as  holding 6.6 Teragrams of untapped resources, a gold processing mill and related equipment, a maintenance building, a dorm room styled housing complex, power and fuel storage facilities, and mobile equipment (rock trucks, excavators and loaders). It was also featured on the popular reality television show Ice Road Truckers.

Cleanup
After being shut down in 1997 and abandoned shortly after by Royal Oak Mines, it transferred into the Canadian Government's hands and responsibility in mid-December 1999. In accordance with water licensing laws and regulations in Canada, Royal Oak Mines had posted a $1.5 million security deposit and in 1999 they were charged with cyanide dumping by the Federal Government. The government of Canada had estimated the cost of the cleanup at $70 million due to high levels of cyanide and ammonia content, as well as acid mine drainage.
For the people of Indian Lake the tailing pond owned by the mine was at one stage threatening to overflow unless immediate action was taken to prevent a disastrous environmental impact.  A public hearing was called to cancel the mines' license and to begin a cleanup.
In 1999, the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development (DIAND) awarded a one-year, $2 million contract to a consortium of aboriginal businesses from DetonÇho Corporation, the Dogrib Rae Band and the North Slave Métis Alliance to undertake final reclamation activities at the Colomac Mine. The consortium conducted studies into contamination and took responsibility for on-going environmental monitoring and maintenance of the site. After the contract was awarded, Royal Oak Mine was finally charged under the Water Act and the Fisheries Act for the pollution it had  caused, this was much too late, since the company was already in receivership.
According to MineWatch Canada in a 2001 publication:
"Now, the water license has not been changed, the money needed to clean-up the site is not forthcoming, and the Dogribs are faced with a potential catastrophe if the tailings pond overflows. Says Dogrib leader Ted Blondin: "I think there is a fiduciary responsibility that the federal government has to looking after the Dogrib interests, and these are the arguments that we will use towards ensuring that the quality of water and the work that has to be done for the cleanup is done."During the initial cleanup phase, many new and effective remediation procedures where developed and put into place, including the use of farmed micro-organisms to remove hydrocarbons from soil contaminated by poor management of the fuel tank farm located on site.
On 25 February 2010 a $19 million contract was awarded to two aboriginal firms, Tlicho Engineering/Environmental Services Ltd and Aboriginal Engineering Ltd for a final two year remediation contract, which will also create local jobs in the area. According to Aboriginal Affairs and Northern Development Canada this two year remediation will cover:
"final remediation of the site, including: major demolition activities (primary and secondary crushing facilities, mill complex, maintenance shop and camp); hydrocarbon remediation (restoration of Steeve's Lake shoreline, free product recovery and soil treatment); site restoration (Truck Lake channel construction, stream crossing restoration) and capping of the non-hazardous landfill sites as well as continued provision of site services and maintenance. The contract, which follows a competitive process, will last until April of 2012 when the companies will conduct a full and final demobilization of the site."
In May 2010, officials suspended the remediation project due to an accident, which occurred at mine in April 2010. It occurred after a foremen working for Aboriginal Engineering Ltd suffered leg injuries after a 2.5 cm cable snapped. Human Resources and Skills Canada announced in May 2010 that they would not allow this remediation to continue until Aboriginal Engineering Ltd set out to implement the standards for health and safety set out by the Federal Government in relation to this type of task.
Passage 9:
Murowa diamond mine
The Murowa diamond mine is a diamond mine located in Mazvihwa, south central Zimbabwe, about 40 kilometres from the asbestos mining town of Zvishavane in the Midlands province. The mine is majority owned and operated by the Rio Tinto Group, which also owns the Argyle diamond mine in Australia and part of the Diavik Diamond Mine in Canada. The mine is a combination of open pit and underground construction; current estimates put construction costs at $61 million USD and mine reserves are 19 million tonnes of ore, with an ore grade of 0.9 carats (180 mg) per tonne.

Geology of the Deposit
Murowa consists of three north-trending kimberlite pipes, intrusive into the Chivi suite granites of the Zimbabwe Craton. The kimberlites have been dated at 500 Ma.

History
The Murowa site's possibilities were first realized in 1997 when three diamond-bearing kimberlite pipes were discovered; over a period of three years of study, the two larger pipes have been determined to be economically feasible as mines. Construction of mine facilities was completed in late 2004. Preparation for mining included the forced relocation of 926 people living on the mine site to six farms purchased by a government relocation program. Limited mining operations began in Murowa in 2004, with full capacity expected to be reached sometime in 2005, although permitting problems have slowed progress toward this milestone. Full-scale production is expected to process 200,000 tonnes of ore annually, although it is possible to push production to as much as one million tonnes annually through further capital investment.
The mine is a combination of open pit and underground construction; current estimates put construction costs at $61 million USD. Current estimates of mine reserves are 19 million tonnes of ore, with an ore grade of 0.9 carats (180 mg) per tonne. Rio Tinto estimates that over the life of the mine, prices for the Murowa's production will fetch an average price of $65 USD per carat (325 $/g).
Passage 10:
Negus Mine
Negus Mine was a gold producer at Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, Canada, from 1939 to 1952. It produced 255,807 troy ounces (7,956.5 kg) of gold from 490,808 tons of ore milled. The underground workings were acquired by adjacent Con Mine in 1953 and were used for ventilation purposes until Con Mine closed in 2003.