Passage 1:
List of Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt episodes
Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt is an American sitcom created by Tina Fey and Robert Carlock, starring Ellie Kemper in the title role, that has streamed on Netflix since March 6, 2015. Originally set for a 13-episode first season on NBC for spring 2015, the show was sold to Netflix and given a two-season order. The fourth and final season concluded on January 25, 2019. On May 8, 2019, it was announced that the series would return with an interactive special, which premiered on May 12, 2020.
During the course of the series, 52 episodes of Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt were released over four seasons.
The series follows 29-year-old Kimmy Schmidt (Kemper) as she adjusts to life in New York City after her rescue from a doomsday cult in Indiana where she and three other women had been held by Reverend Richard Wayne Gary Wayne (Jon Hamm) for 15 years. Determined to be seen as something other than a victim and armed only with a positive attitude, Kimmy decides to restart her life by moving to New York City, where she quickly befriends her street-wise landlady Lillian Kaushtupper (Carol Kane), finds a roommate in struggling actor Titus Andromedon (Tituss Burgess), and gains a job as a nanny for the melancholy and out-of-touch socialite Jacqueline Voorhees (Jane Krakowski). With their help, Kimmy struggles to adapt to an unfamiliar world and jump-start the adult life that had been taken away from her.

Series overview
Episodes
Season 1 (2015)
Season 2 (2016)
Season 3 (2017)
Season 4 (2018–19)
Special (2020)
Passage 2:
Robert Carlock
Robert Morgan Carlock (born September 21, 1972) is an American screenwriter and producer. He has worked as a writer for several NBC television comedies, and as a showrunner for 30 Rock, which was created by his recurring collaborator, comedian Tina Fey. He co-created Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt with Fey. He co-created the television show Mr. Mayor starring Ted Danson, again with Fey.

Early life
Carlock was born in Waltham, Massachusetts, the son of Martha and Roger Emery Carlock. Raised in Weston, Massachusetts, he graduated from Belmont Hill School in 1991 and cum laude from Harvard University in 1995, where he became president of the Fly Club, an all-male social club, and an editor for the Harvard Lampoon.

Career
Carlock began writing for the Dana Carvey Show in 1996. Following that, he was a member of the writing staff of Saturday Night Live from 1996 to 2001, contributing to 99 episodes of the show. One of his notable SNL sketches was NPR's Delicious Dish with Ana Gasteyer and Molly Shannon. In 2011, Ben and Jerry's released a new ice cream flavor based on the sketch written by Carlock and named it "Schweddy Balls".Carlock left SNL in 2001 to write for Friends in Los Angeles, working on the show until 2004 when he joined the staff of Friends spinoff Joey for two years. Carlock then moved back to New York to work on an "Untitled Tina Fey Project" in 2006, which became 30 Rock, which he wrote for and produced. He then worked on Fey's next sitcom, Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, which debuted in 2015. He also wrote the screenplay for Fey's film Whiskey Tango Foxtrot (2016).
Carlock has won several awards for his work on 30 Rock, including Primetime Emmys, Writers Guild of America Awards, and Producers Guild of America Awards, as well as being named one of the top 50 power showrunners of 2011.In 2021, Carlock co-created the series Mr. Mayor with Fey which premiered on NBC on January 7, 2021. The series has received generally positive reviews from critics. In April 2021, the series was renewed for a second season.

Personal life
On December 31, 2001, Carlock married Jennifer Nielsen Rogers, a Wellesley graduate and former CNNfn producer/reporter. Rogers now works as an anchor for Yahoo Finance. She was previously an anchor and reporter for Reuters TV.

Filmography
Awards and nominations
In addition to winning three Emmy Awards for Outstanding Comedy Series, Carlock has been nominated for the Emmys' individual writing award three times. He has won multiple Producers’ Guild and Writers’ Guild Awards as well as recognition from the American Film Institute. His work on 30 Rock also garnered Carlock a Peabody Award, a Television Critics Association Award, a GLAAD Award, a Gold Plaque from the Hugo Television Awards, a Golden Nymph from the Monaco Film and Television Festival, a Bravo A-List Award, some award that's shaped like a Calder stabile, a Comedy Central Comedy Award, and a Golden Globe.The following awards are categorized under the year they were announced (and not necessarily the year covered by the award ceremony).
Passage 3:
Live Show
"Live Show" is the fourth episode of the fifth season of the American television comedy series 30 Rock, and the 84th episode overall. It was directed by Beth McCarthy-Miller, and co-written by series creator Tina Fey and co-showrunner and executive producer Robert Carlock. The episode originally aired live on the NBC television network in the United States on October 14, 2010, with separate versions for the East and West Coast television audiences. "Live Show" featured appearances by Rachel Dratch, Bill Hader, Matt Damon, Jon Hamm, and Julia Louis-Dreyfus.
30 Rock follows the production of the fictional sketch comedy program The Girlie Show with Tracy Jordan (TGS). In this episode, on the night of a show, head writer Liz Lemon grows increasingly infuriated when no one seems to remember her 40th birthday. Just before TGS's live taping, Tracy Jordan decides to break character, to his co-workers' chagrin. Meanwhile, television executive Jack Donaghy struggles with the consequences of his promise to give up drinking while his girlfriend Avery Jessup is pregnant with their child.
"Live Show" was an experiment for 30 Rock—filming with a multiple-camera setup before a studio audience to broadcast live—and the episode received positive reviews for its boldness as well as the nostalgia it showed for classic sitcom conventions and meta-humor—for instance, guest star Louis-Dreyfus portrays Liz Lemon in some cutaway scenes where it would be physically impossible for series regular Fey to be on two separate stages at once. The episode was also a ratings success, improving upon the audience that 30 Rock had grown since its previous season.
On June 22, 2020, it was revealed that the East Coast version would be one of the episodes being pulled from syndication due to issues with the presence of blackface and other racially insensitive humor, however, the West Coast version would remain since it did not include the offending scene.

Plot
Liz Lemon—the head writer of The Girlie Show with Tracy Jordan (TGS)—is preparing to air another episode of TGS, but is angry that her co-workers have forgotten her 40th birthday. Tracy Jordan frustrates her further by deciding to break character during the show's live broadcast in an homage to The Carol Burnett Show. TGS co-star Jenna Maroney is determined to not let Tracy upstage her and declares she will have a deliberate wardrobe malfunction and bare her breast on live television if Tracy does not stop. As the show goes awry due to Tracy and Jenna's unprofessionalism, Liz is forced to cut away from their regularly scheduled programming to commercials for Dr. Leo Spaceman's new album of erotic ballads to cure erectile dysfunction and Drew Baird's public service announcement for hand-transplant surgery.
Meanwhile, Jack Donaghy struggles with a promise that he made to his girlfriend Avery Jessup—he will not drink alcohol during her entire pregnancy in a show of solidarity with her. Instead, he takes up knitting and stage magic, but finds the urge to drink so strong that he begins sniffing paint cans and Jenna's breath just to get a whiff of alcohol. During TGS, Liz gets a phone call from her boyfriend airline pilot Carol informing her that he is going through extreme turbulence and may crash his plane.
In the final act of the show, Jack conspires with the cast and crew to give Liz a last-minute birthday surprise which he wants to appear as though it had been planned all along. Meanwhile, Carol safely lands his plane and rushes to greet Liz on set. All they can muster on short notice is a polka band and a large cake with Fonzie on it—gifts that were intended to celebrate janitor Jadwiga's birthday. Jagwida proceeds to ruin the TGS goodnights and tear into the cake with her bare hands. In Jack's office, Liz and Jack share a drink as Liz's birthday wish. In the final scene, as Jack takes a drink, the program reverts to a pre-recorded segment and Jack says, "That's more like it." The episode ends with a live goodnight from its cast on the TGS stage, a la Saturday Night Live.

Production
"Live Show" was co-written by series creator, executive producer, and lead actress Fey and co-showrunner and executive producer Robert Carlock. It was directed by Beth McCarthy-Miller, a long-time television director who worked with Fey on the sketch comedy show Saturday Night Live.
On July 30, 2010, the NBC network announced that an episode of 30 Rock's fifth season would be filmed and broadcast live on two occasions in the evening of October 14, 2010. The decision was made in part due to lagging ratings for all of NBC's Must-See TV line-up. The idea was originally conceived during the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike, when the cast performed two live versions of the season two episode "Secrets and Lies" as a benefit at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre in New York City. When asked by Entertainment Weekly the reason for doing a live episode, Fey said "[The live performance] was what made us think that it would be fun to do [a live episode]. And how far we've come... Now we're going to do it on TV." In this same interview, Fey revealed that the episode would also be performed in front of a live audience. "It will be exciting for us to do it for a live audience and see if we get live laughter." Fey noted that the experience "was so fun to feel the different timing of the show live and the audience response, which you just don't get in a single-camera show." In another interview, Fey revealed that the staff have talked about doing a live show for years "because we felt we had sort of interesting personnel for it." Following the conclusion of the writers' strike they spoke to NBC about performing live and attempted to film it during the fourth season; however, they were unable to schedule it. For the fifth season, the writing staff began planning the live performance and waited until McCarthy-Miller—a recurring 30 Rock director—was available to helm it. Fey and Carlock said in separate discussions that another decision to do this episode of 30 Rock was based on the cast having theater and improvisation experience. Alec Baldwin had previously performed in the East and West live broadcasts of the Will & Grace season 8 premiere episode, "Alive and Schticking".
Prior to the broadcast, the cast rehearsed "Live Show" for three days and had one rehearsal before a live audience the day of broadcast. The two separate broadcasts of the episode resulted in a live telecast to American viewers in both the East and West Coasts of the United States (with viewers in the Central Time Zone receiving the East Coast feed live, per standard U.S. broadcasting practice)—the crew briefly considered a third broadcast for the Mountain Time Zone, but decided against it. The initial East Coast broadcast included a theme song sung by Jane Krakowski and the later West Coast version's song was performed by Cheyenne Jackson—the two also performed to warm-up the crowd in the rehearsal. In addition, the two episodes had a few scripted differences, such as the lyrics to Spaceman's song, Liz Lemon mocking Jack Donaghy's office assistant Jonathan by referring to him as a character from Slumdog Millionaire in the East Coast broadcast and as Aladdin in the West Coast airing, and the subtitle in the Fox News skit. Additionally, the fictional commercial that featured Drew Baird is different—in the East Coast broadcast he is given a hand transplant from an executed black man; in the West Coast broadcast he has a woman's hand. This episode marks Rachel Dratch's first appearance on 30 Rock since season one, and her first work since giving birth to her son Eli on August 24, 2010.The DVD includes the West Coast version as a bonus feature, but not the entire East Coast version. Instead, the primary version of the episode as presented on DVD is edited together from both East and West, trimmed for time (some scenes are missing and some transitions and awkward pauses are shortened), and presented with standard cast and crew credits (as opposed to the SNL-style crawl), presumably to fit standard rerun length and format. The mix-and-match episode uses the West Coast version for most of the first seven-and-a-half minutes (except Jenna's East Coast title sequence), cuts Jenna's "It's Your Birthday, Slut" sequence and the second Yadwiga scene ("sit on it") entirely, and uses West for various short parts (including, most likely, part of the Fox News sketch preparation, half a minute before Carol's phone call, a minute from the last few moments of the call to "I will slip a nip", the first twenty seconds of Jack's paint can sniffing scene, Jenna's nip slip threat before the second commercial ("to commercial go!"), possibly Jack's Capital One plug, and the last seventy seconds or so of the birthday cake scene). It doesn't use the West Coast version for the next moments of the paint can scene where Jack's grammar is corrected. As a result, some differences outlined in the other Alternate Versions entry won't be available to anyone with the DVD, including the Slumdog Millionaire variant listed above and many flubs and goofs.

Connection with television tropes
As the live broadcast of "Live Show" was recorded with TV cameras edited live to video rather than film stock, the video quality for this episode was noticeably different from standard episodes of 30 Rock. Jack acknowledges this at the start of the episode by asking why everything looks like a "Mexican soap opera." Throughout the episode, the characters broke the fourth wall: Tracy Jordan's unprofessional acting within the TGS episode, Jack's references to the video quality, Julia Louis-Dreyfus' portrayal of Liz in cut-away sequences, and the re-hashing of standard sitcom plot elements.In addition, there were several connections with SNL: Fey, Morgan, Dratch, Bill Hader, Louis-Dreyfus, Parnell, and director McCarthy-Miller are all SNL alumni (fellow alumnus Will Ferrell was asked to reprise his recurring "Bitch Hunter" character, but had a scheduling conflict); the show was filmed in SNL's Studio 8H before a live audience; the ending sequence was a good night from the cast while the credits scrolled (and the credits used the same font as SNL); and promos leading up to the episode were voiced by long-time SNL announcer Don Pardo. The music for the episode—both for the TGS sequences and incidental underscore—was provided live by the SNL house band under the direction of Fey's husband Jeff Richmond and Leon Pendarvis. Furthermore, long-time SNL producer Lorne Michaels attended the rehearsal and performances to give his advice. Each commercial break during the show was predicated on an emergency commercial break on TGS, including a fictional commercial and a fake NBC technical difficulties screen.

Blackface scene
The "blackface" scene is a short skit where a white male character (Jon Hamm), who had both hands replaced with hooks, having lost them in accidents, announces he has been the recipient of a hand transplant. However, as in a horror movie, the transplanted hand has a mind of its own and acts independently. In the East Coast version, the transplanted hand is from a black male executed criminal. In the West Coast version, the transplanted hand is from a white female who lost it in an explosion at a Josh Groban concert.

Reception
"Live Show" drew in the largest audience for 30 Rock, season five, with 6.701 million viewers, and reached a season high 3.1 Nielsen rating/9% share with adults 18–49, which was a 43% increase over the previous episode and a 15% increase from the season premiere; it trailed CBS competitor and timeslot leader $h*! My Dad Says by 0.1. This rating was the show's highest since December 10, 2009, episode "Secret Santa" and the highest overall for NBC in the 8:30 p.m. Thursday timeslot for non-sports events since December 2009.Critical reception of the episode was largely positive. Emily St. James of The A.V. Club gave the episode an A−, noting the nostalgia for classic television and specifically three-camera sitcoms that this episode displayed. While the pace and tone of "Live Show" were different from a standard episode of 30 Rock, the author considers this episode, "an experiment, as a weird hybrid of 30 Rock, an old sitcom, and Saturday Night Live" and ultimately a success. James Poniewozik of Time also wrote that the episode was uneven, but successful as a tribute to television. TV Squad's Bob Sassone was impressed by the episode, specifically Fey's performance and Louis-Dreyfus' imitation of Liz Lemon. Other positive reviews have noted the lack of mistakes in the comic timing and performance, the strength of the guest stars, and the performers' ability to keep up the pace that is expected in a 30 Rock episode. Frazier Moore of the Associated Press gave the episode a negative review, calling it "vaudevillian" and "a slice of self-indulgence and excess." Mark Perigard of the Boston Herald considered the episode "so-so" due to its "humdrum script." As a live television experiment, reviewers have considered it a success, particularly in reference to other live broadcast experiments, such as NBC drama ER's 1997 episode "Ambush" and SNL, with Entertainment Weekly declaring it "like SNL, only funny." In reviewing the best television programs of 2010, The A.V. Club named 30 Rock number 18 and cited this episode as amongst the best of the year. McCarthy-Miller was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series for this episode.On March 21, 2012, Baldwin announced in an interview with Extra that a second live episode—"Live from Studio 6H"—would air the following April 26.
Passage 4:
Episode 210
The untitled tenth episode of the second season of the television series 30 Rock was first broadcast in the United States on January 10, 2008, on the NBC network. The episode was written by show runner Robert Carlock and Donald Glover, and was directed by Richard Shepard. Guest stars include Kevin Brown, Grizz Chapman, Edie Falco, Toby Huss and Gladys Knight, who appeared as herself. The episode focuses on Liz Lemon (Tina Fey) and her decision to invest in real-estate, Jack Donaghy's (Alec Baldwin) choice between his job and his girlfriend, and Kenneth Parcell's (Jack McBrayer) addiction to coffee.The production and broadcasting of this episode was heavily affected by the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike. Despite never being officially named by NBC, Episode 210 has been unofficially titled "Liz the Business Woman" and "Coffee & TV". Although not unanimously praised by critics, the episode attracted generally positive reviews and was particularly appreciated for its cast's rendition of the 1973 Gladys Knight & the Pips hit "Midnight Train to Georgia". Liz also sings a snippet of Alanis Morissette's "You Oughta Know" when leaving a message for the co-op board.

Plot
Liz takes Jack's advice to invest in real estate, and Jenna Maroney tells Liz that her business manager is selling his apartment. The sale is subject to the approval of the building's cooperative board, but Liz makes a bad impression and her purchase offer is rejected. Liz gets herself drunk and makes numerous phone calls to the board.
Jack is involved in negotiations to acquire a German cable television network, but is struggling to juggle his job and his relationship with C.C., whose work as a congresswoman keeps her busy in Washington D.C. Unable to see each other when they want to, the couple decide to "meet in the middle" (in a betting parlor in Pennsylvania), but this arrangement proves unsuitable and they later decide to break up. Jack, in conversation with Liz, compares his relationship to Liz's previous relationship with Floyd, and Liz declares in song that she has to go.Tracy Jordan buys a coffee machine and puts it on Kenneth Parcell's desk, causing him to develop a caffeine addiction. Comparing New York to Sodom, Kenneth claims that he has been "sodomized," and feels guilty that he has let New York change him, contrary to a promise he made to his mother. He therefore decides to return to Georgia on the midnight train; however, he quickly returns, explaining that the train was actually departing at 11:45 and he missed it.

Production
Parts of this episode were filmed during the week of November 5, 2007, which coincided with the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike. The strike, which began at 00:01 EST on November 5, 2007, did not affect the episode as it had been written earlier and filming was finished on November 9. Members of Writers Guild of America, East and Writers Guild of America, West voted to end the writers' strike on February 12, 2008, and although writers were allowed to return to work on the same day, Robert Carlock returned to work on February 11. The remaining writers resumed work on February 13, which began the production of the next episode, "MILF Island". During the filming, actor and executive producer Tina Fey had to balance her duties in order not to breach WGA strike rules. Fey also took to the picket lines along with co-star Jack McBrayer. Alec Baldwin wrote blogs on The Huffington Post website in order to demonstrate his support for the WGA writers.Episode 210 was broadcast on January 10, 2008 and was the final episode, including repeats, of 30 Rock to be broadcast until the episode "MILF Island" in April. This episode is also notable for being officially unnamed; NBC billed this episode on its press releases as "Episode 210". This led some critics to give it the unofficial title of "Liz the Business Woman", while others named it "Coffee & TV".

Reception
On its original broadcast in the United States, Episode 210 was viewed by 6.0 million viewers and earned a 2.8/7 in the 18- to 49-year-old demographic. This means that it was seen by 2.8% of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 7% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.Entertainment Weekly's Jeff Labrecque wrote "the episode really finished strong with a fabulous Gladys Knight musical number". Matt Webb Mitovich of TV Guide also praised the musical number, saying "that 'Midnight Train to Georgia' number at the end of tonight's episode... Wow. So out of nowhere and so fun." Bob Sassone of AOL's TV Squad said that the episode "was a good episode to go into the hiatus with, if that makes things better". He criticized the fact that the fictional TGS writing staff was not present in this episode, even though they could have been effectively used. Michael Neal of Television Without Pity awarded the episode a grading of A+. The Boston Globe's Joanna Weiss reviewed the episode positively, saying "[the episode] concluded with a musical interlude that was both hilarious and wistful".Despite the good reviews, there was no universal acclaim from critics as a whole. Robert Canning of IGN said that "[this episode] wasn't the most spectacular half-hour from this truncated season" and "unfortunately, there wasn't all that much that was funny about it. Sure, there were a couple of decent one-liners, but overall [Kenneth's storyline] offered up nothing new." Despite these criticisms, Canning added further praise to the "Midnight Train to Georgia" performance. Canning gave this episode a rating of 8.4 out of 10.Edie Falco was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Comedy Series for this episode.

See also
2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike
Effect of the 2007–08 Writers Guild of America strike on television
Passage 5:
Azie Mira Dungey
Azie Mira Dungey is an American actress, producer, and writer. She wrote and played the lead role in the comedic web series "Ask a Slave," and is currently, ". . .writing a book as a follow-up to the series." Dungey also wrote for the Emmy nominated Netflix series Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt and Girls5eva, both produced by Tina Fey and Robert Carlock. She also wrote and produced on Sweetbitter  on Starz based on the bestselling novel of the same title by Stephanie Danler. Dungey wrote and hosted on Season 1 of Say It Loud, an educational series for PBS Digital. In 2019, she was executive producer and writer for Lena Waithe's Twenties,  a sit-com on BET and Showtime, as well as the Tracy Oliver and Amy Poehler produced comedy series, Harlem for Amazon Studios.

Early life and education
Dungey was born in Washington, DC. She spent her early childhood in Philadelphia, PA and later moved to Maryland where she attended middle and high school. She was a drama major at New York University, graduating from the Tisch School of the Arts.Dungey is Pamunkey (also Mattaponi) and a very active member of the Native community. The tribe's enrollment policies that excluded members who married or had children with African Americans was exposed by the Congressional Black Caucus during their recognition process in 2013. Dungey comes from a family that was victim to Pamunkey anti-Black tribal law and they are currently seeking enrollment.

Career
Dungey took part in a number of theatre productions in Washington, DC, including The Walworth Farce at Studio Theatre.Dungey performed the role of a slave as part of an ongoing historical reenactment of life at the Mount Vernon plantation in Virginia, USA, once owned by President George Washington. Part of her job was to answer tourists' questions about slavery while staying in character. She worked there part-time for nearly two years from 2010 to 2012.In 2013, Dungey moved to Los Angeles. She then wrote the script for a web series called Ask a Slave, and performed the lead role, that of Lizzie Mae, a slave.  The series includes actual incidents from her experiences on the plantation. The series has received more than two million views.As a result, Salon magazine listed her as one of 10 black women SNL could hire.
Passage 6:
Operation Righteous Cowboy Lightning
"Operation Righteous Cowboy Lightning" is the twelfth episode of the fifth season of the American television comedy series 30 Rock. It was written by executive producer Robert Carlock. The director of this episode was Beth McCarthy-Miller. It originally aired on NBC in the United States on January 27, 2011. Guest stars in this episode include Robert De Niro, Lester Holt, Sherri Shepherd, and Dean Winters.
In the episode, Jack Donaghy (Alec Baldwin) decides to pre-tape a celebrity benefit for a natural disaster, but his plan goes terribly wrong. Meanwhile, Tracy Jordan (Tracy Morgan) continues to drive Liz Lemon (Tina Fey) crazy with his irresponsibility. However, when a reality show camera crew starts to follow Tracy around, Liz tries to use it to her advantage.
"Operation Righteous Cowboy Lightning" was universally well received and praised by television critics. According to Nielsen Media Research, the episode was watched by 4.922 million households during its original broadcast, and received a 2.4 rating/7 share among viewers in the 18–49 demographic.

Plot
Liz Lemon (Tina Fey) and Jack Donaghy (Alec Baldwin) watch the installation of a large Kabletown sign on 30 Rockefeller Plaza. No longer a GE employee and now working for Kabletown, Jack decides to conquer this new phase in his life just as he did before. After researching, he finds that the most watched reality programs of the past five years are celebrity benefits for natural disasters. Since all the networks air benefits at the same time, no one network has an advantage nor dominates in the ratings. To combat this, Jack decides to pre-tape a benefit to air on the night of the next natural disaster. When a disaster devastates an island called Mago, Jack is ecstatic until he finds out that the island is owned by the infamous troubled actor, Mel Gibson. Regardless, the event is a success.
Meanwhile, Tracy Jordan (Tracy Morgan) pushes Liz's buttons as usual by not showing up to rehearsals and leaving work to do something insane. However, Tracy's demeanor instantly changes when a camera crew starts to follow him around for his wife's new reality show. He starts to act responsible and respectful in front of the cameras, as he wants to avoid ruining his chances of winning an Oscar. Liz has the idea to use Tracy's fake good behavior to get him to do things he blew off in the past, knowing that he can't refuse while taped. This works until Tracy finds a loophole. When Liz tries to get Tracy to do more things, he refuses and insults Liz to the melody of "Uptown Girl" by Billy Joel. Since the song is copyrighted, any footage containing that song can't be used. Therefore, Tracy's irresponsibility wouldn't be aired on the show. Liz tries to outcrazy him with autotune, but she later realizes that she can't match his insanity. They finally talk it out alone and each argues that the other person would have been a failure without their help. Nevertheless, cameras manage to film this and Tracy and Liz refuse to make up. However, when the show edits their various confrontations and uses two look-alikes to create a make up scene along to the song "Secrets" by OneRepublic, both Liz and Tracy are moved to tears and make up for real.

Cultural references
This episode continues to satirize the acquisition of NBC by Comcast. Liz tries to tell Jack what a Snart is (which is to sneeze and fart simultaneously) because it is ten o'clock. This refers 30 Rock's move from the 8:30 pm to the 10:00 pm timeslot. Tracy plans to get an island like Nicolas Cage, Celine Dion, and Charles Widmore, the latter being a fictional character from Lost. The whole cast of TGS is being filmed by the cameras of Angie Jordan's (wife of Tracy) new reality show, Queen of Jordan, which Jack commissioned in the previous episode, "Mrs. Donaghy". Eventually, an episode of 30 Rock was filmed as an episode of "Queen of Jordan".
The episode references the ongoing storyline of Liz's desire to become a mother when Kenneth gives Liz a memo he could not put in her mailbox because it was full of unread adoption materials. This story first began in the show's first season and continued in the third season.Tracy and Liz fight in several ways, all of them involving masking their arguments in ways that cannot be used in the reality show for copyright reasons, such as singing along with the Billy Joel song "Uptown Girl" or wearing a New York Rangers goalie mask.
Jack films a pre-taped disaster event special, which he uses when a hurricane strikes Mago Island. This backfires because there were only two victims. The victims were the island's owner, actor Mel Gibson, who was highly publicized for his personal troubles, and his guest, Jon Gosselin.
While considering his new position as a Kabletown executive, Jack mentions "stout Cortez" and quotes the poem "On First Looking into Chapman's Homer" by John Keats. Tracy later also mentions feeling like "Stout Cortez," but this time in reference to his gardener.

Reception
According to Nielsen Media Research, "Operation Righteous Cowboy Lightning" was watched by 4.922 million households in its original American broadcast. It earned a 2.4 rating/7 share in the 18–49 demographic. This means that it was seen by 2.4 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 7 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast. This was a decrease from the previous episode, "Mrs. Donaghy", which was watched by 5.338 million American viewers. It turned out to be the most-watched episode of the show until the series finale on January 31, 2013.
Passage 7:
Kidney Now!
"Kidney Now!" is the twenty-second episode and season finale of the third season of the American television comedy series 30 Rock, and the 58th overall episode of the series. It was directed by series producer Don Scardino, and written by show producers Jack Burditt and Robert Carlock. The episode originally aired on NBC in the United States on May 14, 2009. Guest stars in this episode include Alan Alda, Kay Cannon, Donald Glover, Napiera Groves, Chris Parnell, Paula Pell, and Sherri Shepherd. In addition, "Kidney Now!" featured many musical guest stars including Clay Aiken, Elvis Costello, Mary J. Blige, Sheryl Crow, the Beastie Boys (Mike D and Ad Rock), Steve Earle, Adam Levine, Sara Bareilles, Wyclef Jean, Norah Jones, Talib Kweli, Michael McDonald, Rhett Miller, Moby, Robert Randolph, Rachael Yamagata and Cyndi Lauper, all as themselves.In the episode, Jack Donaghy (Alec Baldwin) gets to know his newly discovered father, Milton Greene (Alda), but quickly learns that Milton needs a kidney transplant, and discovers he is not a suitable donor. As a result, Jack decides to use the liberal media to find an alternate way to get him a kidney donor. Meanwhile, people seek Liz Lemon (Tina Fey) out as a relationship expert as a result of her "Dealbreaker" sketches, and Kenneth Parcell (Jack McBrayer) helps Tracy Jordan (Tracy Morgan) deal with his embarrassment over not finishing high school.
The song "He Needs a Kidney" was written by show composer and co-executive producer Jeff Richmond. The concept of doing a charity concert was based on Robert Carlock and series creator Tina Fey wanting to include a musical performance in the episode with the Milton Greene character in need of a kidney donor. Carlock and Fey wanted "He Needs a Kidney" to be similar to the 1985 charity song, "We Are the World". Following the airing of this 30 Rock episode, NBC released the musical performance video of "He Needs a Kidney" on iTunes with all proceeds from the sales going to the National Kidney Foundation."Kidney Now!" was generally well received among television critics. According to the Nielsen Media Research, this episode was watched by 5.7 million viewers. Jack Burditt and Robert Carlock were nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award nomination in the category for Outstanding Writing in a Comedy Series for their work in this episode. In addition, Tony Pipitone and Griffin Richardson received a Creative Arts Emmy Award nomination in the category for Outstanding Sound Mixing for a Comedy or Drama Series (half-hour) and Animation.

Plot
Jack Donaghy (Alec Baldwin) gets to know his newly discovered father, Milton Greene (Alan Alda) but soon discovers Milton has a serious medical condition and is in search of a kidney donor. After discovering he is an unsuitable donor by Dr. Leo Spaceman (Chris Parnell), Jack uses his contacts—musicians Clay Aiken, Sara Bareilles, the Beastie Boys (Mike D and Ad-Rock), Mary J. Blige, Elvis Costello, Sheryl Crow, Steve Earle, Wyclef Jean, Norah Jones, Talib Kweli, Cyndi Lauper, Adam Levine, Michael McDonald, Rhett Miller, Moby, Robert Randolph, and Rachael Yamagata—to arrange a charity benefit entitled "Kidney Now!" in attempt to find a donor for Milton.
Meanwhile, Liz Lemon (Tina Fey) gains notoriety after making an appearance on The Vontella Show, along with Jenna Maroney (Jane Krakowski), as a relationship expert after her "Dealbreaker" sketches on the fictitious comedy sketch show The Girlie Show with Tracy Jordan (TGS). As a result of the success she received as the relationship expert on The Vontella Show, Liz becomes more well known and begins dispensing relationship advice to the female staff of TGS, and to Angie Jordan (Sherri Shepherd) and Paula Hornberger (Paula Pell), the wives of TGS star Tracy Jordan (Tracy Morgan) and producer Pete Hornberger (Scott Adsit), respectively. Though, Tracy and Pete are upset with the advice Liz gave to their wives, Liz blows them off and goes to Quizno's to meet with an agent to write a prospective Dealbreaker book. The deal goes through and Liz tells Jack that she is "getting [hers]."
At the same time, Tracy is invited to speak at the graduation ceremony of his former high school (named after Frank Lucas, the infamous Harlem drug lord). NBC page and friend Kenneth Parcell (Jack McBrayer) tries to help him overcome troubling memories from his high school experience. Kenneth persuades Tracy to go to the graduation, which he does, where Tracy gives his speech and receives an honorary diploma.

Production
"Kidney Now!" was directed by series producer Don Scardino, and written by 30 Rock producers Jack Burditt and Robert Carlock. This was Burditt and Carlock's fourth script collaboration, having penned the episodes "Cleveland", "Subway Hero", and "Sandwich Day". This was Scardino's twenty-first directed episode. "Kidney Now!" originally aired on NBC in the United States on May 14, 2009, as the twenty-second episode and season finale of the show's third season and the 58th overall episode of the series.

"Kidney Now!" was first read by its cast on March 5, 2009; it was filmed on March 16–17, 2009. "He Needs a Kidney", the charity song featured in this episode, was written by show composer and co-executive producer Jeff Richmond. Richmond is married to series creator, executive producer and lead actress Tina Fey. In discussion of the development of "Kidney Now!", Richmond said that Carlock and Fey "were trying to figure out a way to highlight Jack's dad in getting a kidney and how they're going to deal with that", and that the two came to the decision to "take advantage of the singing", as they have done so in the past with different 30 Rock episodes, in which the show's characters have sung songs. Carlock and Fey agreed to the idea that a song be included in the season finale, but that it be an anthem like the 1985 charity song, "We Are the World",  as the cause is that the Milton Greene character is in need of a kidney donor. "Basically, the parameters were if 'We Are the World' but they want to get a kidney. I think we had angles that everyone has two kidneys and you'll only need one kidney, and we thought 'Alright, we'll get some distance on that'", said Richmond. While working on the track, Fey suggested to Richmond that he incorporate Milton Greene's name in one part of the song, which he did, as this was sung by singers Cyndi Lauper and Robert Randolph.Giancarlo Vulcano, a music editor and associate arranger on the show, revealed that Richmond taught him the song one morning at Silvercup Studios—where the show is filmed—and they played the first half of "He Needs a Kidney" at the script's read-through. According to Vulcano, the 30 Rock staff loved the song and the two were satisfied with the reception of it. While arranging the instrumentation, Richmond hired violinists for the episode's background music and for "He Needs a Kidney", which according to him he usually does not get the opportunity to have a lot of violin sounds on the show. The recording sessions with the musical guests took place on Stage 1 at Silvercup Studios; Stage 1 serves as the set for TGS with Tracy Jordan, a fictitious comedy sketch show featured on 30 Rock. Richmond and Vulcano were complimentary towards the musicians—Clay Aiken, Sara Bareilles, the Beastie Boys (Mike D and Ad-Rock), Mary J. Blige, Elvis Costello, Sheryl Crow, Steve Earle, Wyclef Jean, Norah Jones, Talib Kweli, Cyndi Lauper, Adam Levine, Michael McDonald, Rhett Miller, Moby, Robert Randolph, and Rachael Yamagata—who performed "He Needs a Kidney". In the DVD commentary for this episode, Richmond believed that the entire song would not make it into the airing. Elvis Costello was once approached to do an appearance on 30 Rock, but the appearance fell-through. At an Oscar's after party, Fey ran into Costello and asked him if he could appear, which he agreed to. According to Fey, none of the music artists got paid to appear on the show as "they all did [it] for free." The reason for this was due to a joke in the song in which Sheryl Crow was the only individual to get paid, as the rest said they did it for free. Following the broadcast of this episode of 30 Rock, the musical performance video was made available for digital download on iTunes with all the proceeds from the sales going to the National Kidney Foundation.

According to Fey, there were discussions on whether or not to use a real talk show host from New York, for the "Dealbreakers" segment, but ultimately decided to make one up and went with actress Napiera Groves who plays talk show host Vontella in "Kidney Now!". The Tracy character plot was based on Tracy Morgan who in real-life was given a diploma by his former high school, DeWitt Clinton High School. Like the Tracy character, who dropped out of high school after being asked to dissect a frog, Morgan dropped out of DeWitt Clinton when his father became ill. Jack and Liz's scene, along with Tracy and Kenneth's, at the end where they watch the charity concert, was filmed the day before the musical number took place. "They were pretending to look at the singing", revealed Fey. They forced that shot in so that the episode not just end with the performance.Professor Milton Greene was played by guest actor Alan Alda, best known for his role as Hawkeye Pierce from the television series M*A*S*H. This was Alda's second appearance, having appeared in the previous episode "Mamma Mia". In a scene of "Kidney Now!", Tracy breaks down crying and says "There is no baby. I was chicken! I was chicken!" then Milton, who sees this, asks "A guy crying about a chicken and a baby? I thought this was a comedy show." This was a reference to Alda's M*A*S*H character in the series finale episode in which Hawkeye breaks down after realizing he had seen a woman smother her baby to death, not a chicken as Hawkeye had originally recalled in his repressed mind. Comedian actor Chris Parnell, who played Dr. Leo Spaceman in the season finale, has appeared in the main cast of Saturday Night Live (SNL), a weekly sketch comedy series which airs on NBC in the United States. Fey was the head writer on SNL from 1999 until 2006. Comedian actress Sherri Shepherd reprised her role as Angie Jordan, the wife of Tracy, for the fifth time. Paula Pell made her second guest spot as the character Paula Hornberger, the wife of Pete Hornberger, played by Scott Adsit. In "Kidney Now!", Angie and Paula ask Liz for relationship advice. In addition, 30 Rock writers Jack Burditt, Kay Cannon, and Donald Glover appear in the episode; Burditt and Cannon appear in The Vontella Show segment as members from the audience who ask Liz questions. When Tracy accepts an honorary diploma from his former high school, in his speech, Tracy outs Glover's character. The success of the benefit concert for Milton is not explicitly referenced until Alda's character alludes to it in the season five episode "Christmas Attack Zone", though in the season four episode "Into the Crevasse", Milton is shown to have finished his book entitled From Peanut to President, a biography of U.S. President Jimmy Carter.One filmed scene from "Kidney Now!" was cut out from the airing. Instead, the scene was featured on 30 Rock's season three DVD as part of the deleted scenes in the Bonus feature. In the scene, Liz enters the TGS writer's room, and tells the writing staff that she got recognized from her appearance on The Vontella Show as the relationship expert from "Dealbreakers". Pete cannot believe that Liz gave actual relationship advice on the program, citing Liz's own past relationship faults.

Reception
According to the Nielsen Media Research, "Kidney Now!" was watched by 5.7 million viewers during its original United States broadcast. The rating was an 8 percent drop in viewership from the previous week's episode, "Mamma Mia", which was seen by 6.2 million American viewers. The show claimed a 2.8 rating/7 share among viewers aged 18 to 49, meaning that 2.8 percent of all people in that group, and 7 percent of all people from that group watching television at the time, watched the episode. Jack Burditt and Robert Carlock received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Writing in a Comedy Series for their work on "Kidney Now!", but they lost it to fellow 30 Rock writer Matt Hubbard for the episode "Reunion" at the 61st Primetime Emmy Awards. At the same awards show, Tony Pipitone and Griffin Richardson were nominated for a Creative Arts Emmy Award for Outstanding Sound Mixing for a Comedy or Drama Series (half-hour) and Animation.IGN contributor Robert Canning wrote that the ending from this episode "did have a season finale feel to it with the big musical number. [...] Still, it was a great season, and I loved going out with two of the best characters on TV summing up the moment perfectly – Liz: 'We sure had quite a year.' Jack: 'What are you talking about? It's May.'" Canning gave it an 8.5 out of 10 rating. Television columnist Alan Sepinwall for The Star-Ledger wrote that the "all-star cast of musicians" featured were not able to dominate the episode "to the point where the episode didn't work." Sepinwall, however, added that despite "Kidney Now!" not being a classic 30 Rock episode "it was [still] funny enough – which, I suppose, also makes it an appropriate finale for this uneven season." Further in the review, Sepinwall was complimentary towards Liz's plot, writing that the character's sequence on The Vontella Show was "hilarious, and a fine demonstration of how much confidence Tina Fey has gained as an actress over the years." The A.V. Club's Nathan Rabin also enjoyed the Liz character, reporting that she "delivered a virtuoso performance in [The Vontella Show], instantly homing in on the fatal flaw in every relationship and obliterating it with highly quotable sass." In discussion to Tracy's plot, Rabin opined it was the "weakest of the various threads" in this episode. Bob Sassone of AOL's TV Squad confessed in his recap that he was going to summarize "Kidney Now!" as "a little disappointing, but then I hit rewind on my DVR and watched it again and realized, wow, they actually hit all of the season finale notes rather perfectly [...] This episode was quite funny."Rick Porter of Zap2it worried how the series would fit in "the likes" of Elvis Costello, Mary J. Blige, Sheryl Crow, Clay Aiken and Adam Levine "without it overwhelming the episode", and reported that the answer to that "turned out to be 'very effectively.'" In regards to the storylines, itself, he noted that Jack's quest in getting Milton a kidney "balanced nicely" with Liz's story, and that Tracy's "had some good moments". In conclusion, Porter wrote "For a show that doesn't always know how to end episodes, it's done really well at ending seasons." TV Guide Magazine's Sandra Kofler wrote that the "He Needs a Kidney" song was hilarious, and that it "stole [30 Rock's] season finale." Patrick Goldstein, a contributor for the Los Angeles Times, was favorable to the musical number, reporting "[t]he song itself is a hoot, highlighted by a wonderful spoken-word kidney donation pitch that begins with Costello saying: 'Listen, when someone starts talking in the middle of a song, you know it's serious.'" Entertainment Weekly contributor Annie Barrett said "Kidney Now!" was "sweet and all", and noted that the "Vontella-as-Tyra spoof" was "brilliant". Time contributor James Poniewozik wrote that this episode "was a fitting end for a guest-star-heavy ... season of 30 Rock", but added that the finale overall was "maybe average", however, "the ending at least delivered the goods, with the best sitcom celebrity benefit song".
Passage 8:
100 (30 Rock)
"100" is a double episode of the American television comedy series 30 Rock, comprising the 20th and 21st episodes of the fifth season, and the 100th and 101st episodes overall of the series. It was written by Jack Burditt and the show's executive producers Robert Carlock and Tina Fey, who is also the series' creator, head writer, and star. The episode originally aired on NBC in the United States on April 21, 2011. Commemorating the 100th episode of the series, this episode was one hour long and included a multitude of guest stars including Michael Keaton, Tom Hanks, Rachel Dratch, Will Forte, Brian Williams, among others.
In the episode, Liz Lemon (Tina Fey) faces news of cancellation for TGS from Hank Hooper after the departure of Tracy Jordan (Tracy Morgan) brought in terrible ratings. Jack Donaghy (Alec Baldwin) promises Hank the return of Tracy and asks for one more chance for TGS to prove itself with its 100th episode. Meanwhile, a gas leak in the building leads to hallucinations among the characters, such as Jack's imaginings of alternate versions of himself visiting him. In a subplot, Jenna Maroney (Jane Krakowski) considers becoming a mother following a joke she made to Kenneth Parcell (Jack McBrayer) five years earlier.

Plot
Hank Hooper (Ken Howard), CEO of the fictional NBC parent Kabletown, informs Liz Lemon (Tina Fey) and Jack Donaghy (Alec Baldwin) of his decision to cancel TGS due to its struggles during the absence of Tracy Jordan (Tracy Morgan). Jack supports Liz, informing Hank that Tracy is returning and convinces him to reconsider the cancellation until after their upcoming hundredth episode. Meanwhile, Kenneth Parcell (Jack McBrayer) suggests to Jenna Maroney (Jane Krakowski) that she'd make a great mother, which causes her to have a hysterical pregnancy in order to augment her career.
Tom the janitor (Michael Keaton) discovers a gas leak that is seeping into the ventilation system of TGS, necessitating the evacuation of all personnel and delaying production of the 100th episode. While repairing the gas leak, Tom inadvertently breaks the ventilation system on the 52nd floor, causing Jack to hallucinate  a visit by an alternate reality version of himself. Alternate Jack declares that he fired Liz because she was holding him back and that without her, he had made his way to the top of GE. As a consequence, Jack meets with Liz and severs their relationship.
Liz is then approached by her ex-boyfriend, Dennis (Dean Winters), whom she had apparently called while under the influence of the gas, hoping to rekindle their relationship. Liz rejects Dennis, who subsequently realizes that he needs to sabotage the ventilation system in order to get her back.
Elsewhere, Tracy goes on multiple morning television shows in an attempt to sabotage the respect he has earned. Unfortunately, his attempts fail, as not only do the hosts interpret his crude behavior as artistic expression, but he also manages to save a man from drowning. Tracy discusses the problem with Jenna and the two realize the only way he could ruin his public image is to shoot someone. Tracy convinces Kenneth to volunteer as his shooting victim on the roof of the building.
As the gas spreads, Jack is visited by two more versions of himself. One is a past version who agrees with his original alternate version. The other is a future version who claims that he needs Liz to distract him from his blind ambition and that he will be much happier if he doesn't fire her. He warns Jack that Liz is about to sign a lease with Dennis, which will lead to them getting married and living in Jacksonville, Florida.
Jack finds Liz and prevents her from signing the lease. Meanwhile, Tom repairs the sabotaged gas line and Dennis is escorted out of the building. Liz then tells Jack that she saw Kenneth and Tracy heading for the roof with a gun. Jenna joins them and the group runs into Hank Hooper on the way, who pitches Jenna a daytime talk show, which causes her hysterical pregnancy to suddenly vanish in light of this new opportunity. They reach the roof just in time to prevent Tracy from shooting Kenneth. Jack advises Tracy that the best way to lose respect as an actor is to return to television, giving a speech alluding to events from Baldwin's own career.
Jack, Liz, Tracy, Jenna, and Kenneth make it back to the TGS set, where Liz discovers that the entire show was written under the influence of the gas and is essentially worthless. She breaks the gas line once again, and with Hooper and the entire studio audience affected by the gas, the show is a hit. A hallucinatory Hooper renews it for "a billion more episodes". Liz and Jack apologize to each other. They then toast to their friendship with imaginary champagne. Tom Hanks, upon seeing Tracy back on TV while watching the episode at home, calls George Clooney (who does not appear) on a red phone and tells him to have Tracy removed from the "official A-list".

Reception
According to the Nielsen Media Research, this episode of 30 Rock was watched by 4.60 million households in its original American broadcast—with 4.80 million watching the first half-hour and 4.44 million watching the last half hour. It earned a 2.2 rating/6 share in the 18–49 demographic. This means that it was seen by 2.2 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds, and 6 percent of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television at the time of the broadcast.
"100" received positive reviews. The A.V. Club gave the episode a B− grade, praising the characterisation but criticising some of the more implausible plot elements (such as the gas leak and Jenna's sudden yearning for children).
Passage 9:
Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt
Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt is an American sitcom created by Tina Fey and Robert Carlock, starring Ellie Kemper in the title role. It premiered on March 6, 2015 on Netflix and ran for four seasons, ending on January 25, 2019. An interactive special premiered on May 12, 2020.
The series follows 29-year-old Kimmy Schmidt (Kemper) as she adjusts to life after being rescued from a doomsday cult in the fictional town of Durnsville, Indiana, where she and three other women were held captive by Reverend Richard Wayne Gary Wayne (Jon Hamm) for 15 years. Determined to be seen as something other than a victim and armed only with a positive attitude, she decides to restart her life by moving to New York City, where she quickly befriends her street-wise landlady Lillian Kaushtupper (Carol Kane), finds a roommate in struggling actor Titus Andromedon (Tituss Burgess), and gains a job as a nanny for melancholic and out-of-touch socialite Jacqueline Voorhees (Jane Krakowski).
Throughout its run, the series received critical acclaim, with critic Scott Meslow calling it "the first great sitcom of the streaming era". It received 20 Primetime Emmy Award nominations, including four nominations for Outstanding Comedy Series and a nomination for Outstanding Television Movie for the 2020 special Kimmy vs. the Reverend.

Synopsis
Kimmy Schmidt (Ellie Kemper) was in eighth grade when she was kidnapped by Reverend Richard Wayne Gary Wayne (Jon Hamm). He held Kimmy and three other women captive for 15 years in an underground bunker and convinced them that a nuclear apocalypse had left them the sole survivors of humanity.
In the first season, the women are rescued, and go on to appear on the Today Show in New York City. After the show, Kimmy decides she doesn't want to return to Indiana or be seen as a victim, so she starts a new life in New York City. Roaming around the city, she comes across landlady Lillian Kaushtupper (Carol Kane), who offers Kimmy a chance to room with Titus Andromedon (Tituss Burgess) in her downstairs apartment. However, to get the apartment, Kimmy has to find a job. When she tries to get a job at a nearby candy store, she sees a boy stealing candy. She pursues him back to his home and encounters his mother, Jacqueline Voorhees (Jane Krakowski), a Manhattan trophy wife, who mistakes her for a nanny, and whom Kimmy mistakes as someone trapped in a cult. Jacqueline hires Kimmy as a nanny for her 10-year-old son. As Season 1 continues, Kimmy falls in love with Dong (Ki Hong Lee), a Vietnamese man from her G.E.D. class; goes to court to testify against the Reverend, and discovers how the world has changed in the 15 years she was held captive. 
In the second season, Kimmy is sick of working for Jacqueline and gets a job at a year-round Christmas store and then as an Uber driver. She tries to get over Dong, who enters a green card marriage with another G.E.D. student and is eventually deported. As Kimmy tries to move on, so do Titus and Jacqueline, who both find boyfriends. Titus begins dating construction worker Mikey Politano (Mike Carlsen) and Jacqueline begins dating lawyer Russ Snyder (David Cross). Jacqueline also goes back to her Native American heritage and decides to take down the Washington Redskins, who her boyfriend's father happens to own. Kimmy reunites with Gretchen and Cyndee to save them from joining another cult and getting married on television, respectively. When Season 2 ends, Titus leaves to be a performer on a cruise and Lillian protests the invasion of hipsters in her neighborhood, while Kimmy makes amends with her mother (Lisa Kudrow) after advice from her therapist (Tina Fey) before receiving a phone call from the Reverend in prison, telling her that they need to get a divorce.
In the third season, Kimmy proceeds with the divorce from the Reverend but hits a snag when she learns that a devoted fan (guest star Laura Dern) wants to marry him. After getting her G.E.D., Kimmy decides to go to college and ends up at Columbia University, where she is popular but fails academically. She forms a friendship with Perry (Daveed Diggs), a philosophy and religion transfer student who, like Kimmy, does not fit in with the rich, elitist Ivy League students. Titus returns from his stint on the cruise harboring a secret and, determined to come home to Mikey with money and a job, he auditions for Sesame Street. However, after the man auditioning Titus asks him to perform sexual acts on a puppet, Titus leaves and runs home to Mikey. However, Titus sees Mikey out with another man, and breaks up with him. Lillian is elected to the city council and attempts to block the construction of a supermarket chain for fear it will gentrify the neighborhood. She later starts a relationship with the owner of the chain (Peter Riegert). Meanwhile, Jacqueline and Russ execute their plan to force his family to change the name of the Redskins and Titus makes it big with the single "Boobs in California". At the end of season three, Titus vows to win Mikey back from his new boyfriend, Jacqueline finds a profession, and Kimmy lands a job at a tech start-up.
In the fourth and final season, Kimmy is working at Giztoob, the tech company started by a former classmate at Columbia, and Jacqueline is representing Titus as his agent. After acting in an anti-bullying performance for a middle school, Titus gets a job as director of the school play and, in an attempt to impress Mikey, pretends to write and star in a superhero television show called The Capist, starring Greg Kinnear. Meanwhile, Lillian's boyfriend Artie dies and she is put in charge of his adult daughter's trust. Kimmy reunites with Donna Maria, who is now a successful businesswoman. Outraged and inspired by men's rights activists, Kimmy writes a children's book that empowers girls and encourages boys to be kind; by the end of season four, Kimmy has found success as a children's author. Season 4 features two episodes that veer from the main plot. In the first, a standalone mockumentary episode, Jacqueline's former boy toy Doug, a.k.a. DJ Fingablast, creates a true crime documentary called Party Monster: Scratching the Surface, which sympathizes with the Reverend and paints Kimmy and the other Mole Women negatively. The second episode, "Sliding Van Doors", presents an alternate universe in which Kimmy is never kidnapped, Titus does not audition for The Lion King in 1998, Jacqueline does not marry Julian Voorhees, and Lillian runs a Latin street gang. The series concludes with each of the main four characters finding success and purpose in new ventures.

Episodes
Cast and characters
Main
Ellie Kemper as Kimberly "Kimmy" Cougar Schmidt, the titular character. Armed with only unflagging optimism,  a childlike sense of wonder and an eighth-grade education, she attempts to regain the life that was taken from her and navigate her way through the unfamiliar struggles of New York life.
Tituss Burgess as Titus Andromedon (born Ronald Wilkerson), Kimmy's gay, flamboyant roommate and an aspiring actor and singer. Melodramatic and self-absorbed, Titus nevertheless cares deeply for, and is very protective of Kimmy. Despite his talent and ego, he is plagued by self-doubt after years of rejection in the business. Titus hails from Chickasaw County, Mississippi, and moved to New York City in 1998.
Carol Kane as Lillian Kaushtupper, Kimmy and Titus' odd landlady. A proud born-and-bred New Yorker with a long, complex criminal history, she fights against the possible gentrification of her neighborhood (although it soon becomes clear that she hates any form of progress or technology). Despite her willingness to do anything to make a buck, she has a very big heart and will go out of her way to help her tenants.
Jane Krakowski as Jacqueline White (formerly Voorhees; née Jackie Lynn White), a wealthy and insecure socialite who hires Kimmy as a nanny. Despite coming across as arrogant, condescending and out of touch, she is very fond of (and heavily reliant on) her new employee, who helps her gain perspective on her unhappy marriage. She is secretly of Lakota Native American descent and is passing for white. As the series progresses, she gradually reconnects with her family and her culture. She is the mother of Buckley Voorhees and the former step-mother of Xanthippe Lannister Voorhees. Her ex-husband is Julian Voorhees.

Recurring
Guest
Production
Development
The show was created by Tina Fey and Robert Carlock when NBC executives asked them to develop a show for Ellie Kemper. Fey said that they found an "innocence" about Kemper's face, but also noted a "strength" to it. One idea was for the show to center on Kemper's character waking up from a coma, but this idea was abandoned in favor of the cult-survivor storyline.The show was initially under development for NBC under the title Tooken. NBC ultimately sold the series to Netflix. Fey said that this was in partly due to NBC's "not feeling confident about watching comedies". Prior to the sale, NBC planned to air the series as either a mid-season replacement or as a summer series. It was sold to Netflix with a two-season order.On June 13, 2017, it was renewed for a fourth and final season, with the first six episodes premiering on May 30, 2018. The second half was released on January 25, 2019. On May 8, 2019, it was announced that it would return with an interactive special, which premiered on May 12, 2020.

Casting
Casting announcements for the remaining roles were made in March 2014, with Tituss Burgess cast as Kimmy's roommate, Titus, and Carol Kane as Kimmy's and Titus's landlady, Lillian.Shortly afterwards, Sara Chase was cast Cyndee, Kimmy's closest friend during their years in the cult; and Lauren Adams as Gretchen, a 10-year member of the cult who believes everything she is told. Jane Krakowski was later cast as Jacqueline Voorhees, a wealthy Manhattanite who hires Kimmy as a nanny. Megan Dodds was originally cast before Krakowski replaced her.

Music
The show's theme song, "Unbreakable", was produced by The Gregory Brothers and written by Jeff Richmond. It is a tribute to The Gregory Brothers' YouTube show Songify the News – auto-tuned news interviews that became popular videos. It specifically parodies the mannerisms of Antoine Dodson in the "Bed Intruder Song". Richmond also wrote "Peeno Noir", a song performed by character Titus Andromedon during season 1, episode 6.

Artwork
Artwork for the show's opening sequence was produced by a team at Pentagram that included feminist artist Deva Pardue.

Home video releases
Reception
The show has been widely acclaimed by television critics, who have praised the writing and cast.

Season 1
On Rotten Tomatoes, the first season has a rating of 95%, based on 55 reviews, with an average rating of 7.5/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "Blessed with originality and a spot-on performance from Ellie Kemper, The Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt is as odd as it is hilarious." On Metacritic, the first season has a score of 78 out of 100, based on 29 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".Scott Meslow of The Week called the series "the first great sitcom of the streaming era", praising its wit, edge, and feminist tone. Brian Moylan of The Guardian noted that it is "the sort of show that could benefit from multiple viewings, because the jokes are so packed in you’re sure to miss something while laughing." TV Guide named it the "best new comedy of 2015". IGN reviewer Max Nicholson gave the first season an 8.3 out of 10 'Great' rating, saying "Tina Fey and Robert Carlock's Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt is another winner in Netflix's original series catalog. Not only is it charming and funny, but it's unabashedly kooky, and Ellie Kemper nails the lead role."The first season was nominated for seven Primetime Emmy Awards.
Some reviewers have criticized the show's portrayal of Native Americans, with Vulture referring to a prominent Native American subplot as "offensive". BuzzFeed wrote that the show has a "major race problem" and cited the lack of a plurality of portrayals of Native Americans as the main issue with the subplot, stating that "the way Native Americans are represented on this show matters. It's not one representation among a cornucopia of representations; it's the single mainstream representation in years." The Daily Beast stated that when it comes to race, “especially in its portrayal of a key Vietnamese character, the show leaves much to be desired.”In the wake of the controversy, Tina Fey responded: "I feel like we put so much effort into writing and crafting everything, they need to speak for themselves. There's a real culture of demanding apologies, and I'm opting out of that."

Season 2
On Rotten Tomatoes, the second season holds a 100% approval rating, based on 24 reviews, with an average rating of 7.6/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "Not letting up in season two, Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt is still odd in the best of ways, wonderfully building on its unique comedy stylings and brilliantly funny cast." On Metacritic, the second season has a score of 82 out of 100, based on 16 reviews, indicating "universal acclaim".The second season was nominated for four Primetime Emmy Awards.
There was controversy surrounding the third episode from this season, “Kimmy Goes to a Play!,” which involved the use of yellow-face and the name of a group of Asian-Americans who were critical of yellow-face. The group is referred to as "Respectful Asian Portrayals in Entertainment", or "R.A.P.E" for short. The Asian-Americans shown protesting against yellow-face in the episode are conveyed as unlikable buffoons. Anna Akana criticized the use of yellow-face and the R.A.P.E. acronym during her 2016 Asians in Entertainment Key Note speech. Alex Abad-Santos wrote, “The odd thing about this episode is that it's another Tina Fey project that paints Asian people, specifically Asian women, as crappy characters. [...] The plot feels like a pointed, ironic response to anyone who has criticized Fey's past projects for being lazy and racist.”

Season 3
On Rotten Tomatoes, the third season holds a 97% approval rating, based on 29 reviews, with an average rating of 8.11/10. The site's critical consensus states: "Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt continues to thrive with a comically agile cast, notable guest stars, and a forceful influx of funny." On Metacritic, the third season has a score of 78 out of 100, based on 12 reviews, indicating "generally favorable reviews".The third season was nominated for five Primetime Emmy Awards.

Season 4
On Rotten Tomatoes, the fourth season holds a 94% approval rating, based on 32 reviews, with an average rating of 7.77/10. The site's critical consensus states: "Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt ends with a final season that's as topical as it is cheerily irreverent." On Metacritic, the fourth season has a score of 85 out of 100, based on 6 reviews, indicating "universal acclaim".The fourth season was nominated for two Primetime Emmy Awards.

Special
On Rotten Tomatoes, the Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt: Kimmy vs. the Reverend special has an approval rating of 94%, based on 32 reviews, with an average rating of 7.81/10. The site's critical consensus reads: "Kimmy and company return as resilient as ever in a fun and fast paced special that makes excellent use of its interactive capabilities to produce maximum fabulosity."The special was nominated for two Primetime Emmy Awards.