Passage 1:
Ram Teri Ganga Maili
Ram Teri Ganga Maili (transl. Ram, Your Ganga is Tainted) is a 1985 Indian Hindi-language romantic drama film directed by Raj Kapoor. The film stars Mandakini and Rajiv Kapoor in lead roles. Music director Ravindra Jain received a Filmfare Award for this film.
The film generated controversy because of Mandakini's bold scenes of breastfeeding and bathing in a transparent saree, which wasn't something the conservative Indian Film Certification Board allowed then. Yet, it had a U (Universal) age rating, which was later amended to U/A. It was the last film directed by Raj Kapoor.
Ram Teri Ganga Maili is included in the 'All-Time Blockbusters' list of Indian Cinema. It was certified Diamond Jubilee in Mumbai and Golden Jubilee in other major cities. The film was the year's highest-grossing film. It was also one of the highest-grossing films of the 1980s, alongside Kranti (1981) and Maine Pyar Kiya (1989).

Plot
Narendra Sahay a.k.a. "Naren" is the son of Jeeva Sahay. He is a rich politician in Calcutta. Naren visits Gangotri to study the source of the holy river Ganga, and to get some holy water for his wheelchair-using paternal grandmother. There he meets a very pretty girl named Ganga Singh. Ganga lives near Gangotri with her brother, Karam. Soon, they fall in love and decide to marry. They are happily married but suddenly Naren has to return to Calcutta as he wanted to convince his parents about Ganga. While leaving for Calcutta, he promised that he will soon return to her. But he is prevented from doing so.
Ganga became pregnant at the time of his leaving and soon, she becomes mother of a child. She faces many problems at her place because of her child and her beauty. Ganga was alone and no one was there to look after her; finally she decides to go to her husband, Naren. Ganga travels from her place, Gangotri to Calcutta to find her husband. At Rishikesh, she was exploited by two women and a man. Then at Benaras, she was molested by a Pandit, rescued by the police and given a ticket to Calcutta. She fell into the clutches of Manilal who lured her to a brothel near Benaras. At the end she meets her husband when he was marrying another girl. His father fixes his marriage with Radha Choudhary, who is the daughter of his friend, Bhagwat Choudhary. Naren was being informed that Ganga is dead. So, he decided to marry according to his father's wish. On the other hand, Ganga is invited to dance on her husband's marriage. But lastly, love wins and Naren recognizes his wife Ganga. They try to go away from there with their son but Bhagwat Choudhary shoots Ganga in a fit of rage. Ganga gets shot by him on her hand and Naren starts beating Bhagwat Choudhary, believing that he killed Ganga. But then Radha informs him that Ganga isn't dead yet. Naren stops beating Bhagwat and leaves with Ganga and their son.

Cast
Rajiv Kapoor as Narendra "Naren" Sahay
Mandakini as Ganga Sahay
Divya Rana as Radha B. Choudhary
Sushma Seth as Dadima
Saeed Jaffrey as Kunj Bihari
Kulbhushan Kharbanda as Jeeva Sahay
Raza Murad as Bhagwat Choudhary
Geeta Siddharth as Mrs. Sahay
Trilok Kapoor as Professor
Krishan Dhawan as Manilal
Vishwa Mehra as Postbabu
Urmila Bhatt as Tajeshwaribai
A.K. Hangal as Brij Kishore
Gautam Sarin as Naren's fellow student
Monty Nath as Naren's fellow student who lost his watch
Kamaldeep as Chamanlal
Tom Alter as Karam Singh (Ganga's elder brother)
Javed Khan Amrohi as Manglu (Ganga's fiancé)

Production
According to Padmini Kolhapure, she was the initial choice for the female lead role but declined because the script had a kissing scene. Mandakini, who ultimately played the role, disputed Kolhapure's claims. She said Raj Kapoor wanted only a new face, rather than an established actress, as he believed he could not "make someone pure Ganga if they have an established image". Mandakini also stated that she did not breastfeed despite popular belief, but the scene was shot in a way to suggest that.

Cultural allusions
According to Philip Lutgendorf, the movie is an allegory that "synthesizes classical and mythic narrative, soft-core political and social commentary (here condemning the corruption of politicians and capitalists and championing the nascent environmental initiatives of Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi). The narrative recapitulates the Abhijñānaśākuntalam story that first appeared in the epic Mahabharata and then was reworked, some six hundred years later, by the poet Kalidasa."
The final song sequence "Ek Radha ek Meera" brings Raj Kapoor's personal experiences with filmdom and reality. This song sequence is the climax of the plot where the bride-to-be is face-to-face with the other "saut", the culturally "polluted" dancer who has made that journey from the pure source of the Himalayas to the ever-flowing and ever-absorbing Ganges with all of the human impurities. It also differentiates between the love of Radha and Meera and reconnects the movie back to the Krishna Leelas.
The movie was a hit, and it earned Mandakini a Filmfare nomination as Best Actress. The film also caused a stir because of two scenes: one in which Mandakini bathes under a waterfall wearing only a flimsy white saree through which her breasts are clearly visible and another in which she is shown breast-feeding a child. Some critics claimed that the scenes were vulgar and exploitative, and were used to get around the Censor Board's stringent rules against nudity. Kapoor defended the inclusion of the scenes stating that they were tasteful.

Awards
33rd Filmfare Awards:Won

Best Film – Randhir Kapoor
Best Director – Raj Kapoor
Best Music Director – Ravindra Jain
Best Art Direction – Suresh J. Sawant
Best Editing – Raj KapoorNominated

Best Actress – Mandakini
Best Supporting Actor – Saeed Jaffrey
Best Lyricist – Hasrat Jaipuri for "Sun Sahiba Sun"
Best Male Playback Singer – Suresh Wadkar for "Main Hi Main Hoon"
Best Story – Raj Kapoor

Songs
Music of this movie was given by late Ravindra Jain, who won Fimfare Award for Best Music Director for this.

"Ek Dukhiyari Kahe" – Lata Mangeshkar & chorus Lyrics-Ravindra Jain
"Ek Radha Ek Meera" – Lata Mangeshkar Lyrics-Ravindra Jain
"Husn Pahadon Ka" – Lata Mangeshkar, Suresh Wadkar Lyrics-Ravindra Jain
"Ram Teri Ganga Maili Ho Gayee" – Part 1 – Suresh Wadkar Lyrics-Ravindra Jain
"Sun Sahiba Sun Pyaar Ki Dhun Maine Tujhe Chun Liya" – Lata Mangeshkar & chorus; Lyrics – Hasrat Jaipuri
"Tujhe Bulayen Yeh Meri Bahen" – Lata Mangeshkar Lyrics-Ravindra Jain
"Yaara O Yaara" – Lata Mangeshkar, Suresh Wadkar Lyrics-Ravindra Jain
"Ram Teri Ganga Maili Ho Gayee" – Part 2 – Suresh Wadkar & Chorus Lyrics-Ravindra Jain
"Main Hi Main Hoon -Suresh Wadkar; Lyrics – Amir Qazalbash
Passage 2:
Kal Aaj Aur Kal
Kal Aaj Aur Kal (transl. Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow) is a 1971 Indian Hindi-language film produced by Raj Kapoor and directed by his son Randhir Kapoor. The film's USP is the appearance of three generations of the famous Kapoor family. The film stars Prithviraj Kapoor, Raj Kapoor, Randhir Kapoor (in his acting debut) and his real-life wife-to-be Babita.It was also the last Shankar Jaikishan score in a Raj Kapoor film. This film came after the heavy debacle of Mera Naam Joker, which was Raj Kapoor's dream project. It more than made up for his loss although it was still only a moderate success at the box office. The film marked one of Prithviraj Kapoor's final films as he died the following year of the film's release.

Plot
The title is an allegory to the ideological clash between three generations: Kal (Grandparent – representing the past), Aaj (Parent – representing the present), and Kal(Youth – representing the future). Diwan Bahadur Kapoor (Prithviraj Kapoor) is the father of Ram Bahadur Kapoor (Raj Kapoor). Ram's son Rajesh (Randhir Kapoor), who had been sent to London for higher studies, returns to India. Diwan Bahadur has promised his childhood friend that Rajesh's marriage will be done with the latter's granddaughter, Laxmi.
However, Rajesh is in love with his girlfriend Monica "Mona" (Babita),and objects to the marriage alliance by his grandfather. Both the grandfather and the grandson stick to their guns, little realizing that Ram is the real sufferer in the clash. Ram finds himself in trouble when Diwan threatens to leave if Rajesh marries Mona and Rajesh threatens to leave if Diwan makes him marry Laxmi. Unable to decide whether he wants his father or son, Ram leaves his home, leaving the grandfather and grandson blaming each other. 
Ram's friend gives him a idea, where he pretends to only want to stay in a hotel and drink a lot. Rajesh and Diwan see his state and decide to pretend to have sorted their issues. The overjoyed Ram throws a party in celebration, however, he overhears his father and son talk about the act. Angered, he leaves the party.
Soon later, Diwan falls sick. He tells Rajesh and his father that he's happy with everything except not getting to see his grandson's wedding. The sad Rajesh decides to give up his love for his grandfather's happiness. He tells Mona the news and she accepts his decision and is ready to come to his wedding. At the wedding, he marries Laxmi but can't see Mona at all. Diwan asks him why he looks so sad and tells the bride to lift up the veil, revealing that the girl he married wasn't Laxmi but Mona instead. Diwan tells him that if he was ready to sacrifice so much for him, so he must sacrifice a little bit for Rajesh. After marriage, Rajesh scatters his grandfather's ashes and his son is born, with Ram happy at becoming a grandfather.

Cast
Prithviraj Kapoor as Diwan Bahadur Kapoor
Raj Kapoor as Ram Kapoor
Randhir Kapoor as Rajesh Kapoor
Babita Kapoor as Mona
Achala Sachdev as Achala
David as Munshi
Iftekhar as Ram's Friend
Roopesh Kumar as Sunny

Soundtrack
All music composed by Shankar–Jaikishan, in their last collaboration with R. K. Films. Three months prior to the film's release, Jaikishan passed away due to cirrhosis of the liver. Nonetheless, three Kishore Kumar numbers from the soundtrack became subsequent hits. These were the solo, Bhanware Ki Gunjan, and a couple duets with Asha Bhosle, Aap Yahan Aaye Kisliye and Tick Tick Tick Chalti Jaye Ghadi.
Passage 3:
Divya Rana
Divya Rana is a former Bollywood actress most noted for her role in Raj Kapoor's Ram Teri Ganga Maili. Divya began her career with the film Ek Jaan Hain Hum (1983) opposite Raj Kapoor's youngest son Rajiv Kapoor. Then she was selected as the second lead in Raj Kapoor's Ram Teri Ganga Maili (1985) co-starring Rajiv Kapoor & Mandakini. Divya later acted in films like Watan Ke Rakhwale, Ek Hi Maqsad, Aasmaan (1984), Maa Kasam (1985 film), Param Dharam and many others. She quit her acting career after her marriage and lives in Mumbai with her husband Fazal and goes by the name Salma Manekia.  She works as a photographer and makes ceramic sculptures.

Selected filmography
Passage 4:
Prem Rog
Prem Rog (transl. Sickness Of Love) is a 1982 Hindi-language musical romantic drama directed by Raj Kapoor, with screenplay written by Jainendra Jain and Kamna Chandra. The film tells the story of a man's (Rishi Kapoor) love towards a woman, who is a higher status widow (Padmini Kolhapure). This film marked Raj Kapoor's return to social themes.
Prem Rog released on 30 July 1982 and emerged as a major commercial success at the box-office, becoming the second highest-grossing film of 1982 after Vidhaata (also starring Kolhapure and Shammi Kapoor). It received widespread critical acclaim for its direction, story, screenplay, soundtrack, cinematography and performances of the cast, with particular praise directed towards Kolhapure's performance. 
At the 30th Filmfare Awards, Prem Rog received a leading 12 nominations, including Best Film, Best Actor (Rishi) and Best Supporting Actress (Nanda), and won a leading 4 awards (tying with Shakti), including Best Director (Raj) and Best Actress (Kolhapure).
Over the years, Prem Rog has achieved the status of an all-time classic of Raj, Rishi and Kolhapure's careers.

Plot
Devdhar (Rishi Kapoor) is a poor orphan who in his childhood had a magnetic friendship with Manorama (Padmini Kolhapure), the only niece of the rich and powerful Bade Thakur (Shammi Kapoor), and daughter of Virender Singh known as Chhote Thakur (Kulbhushan Kharbanda), who has a secret affair with Chamiya (Bindu). The benevolent Thakur helped Devdhar go to the city for higher studies. 8 years later, Devdhar returns to his village, where he finds Manorama has grown up. After seeing her again, Devdhar falls in love and expects that Manorama also has feelings for her. However Manorama does not have reciprocal emotions. The day Devdhar intends to ask her hand from Bade Thakur, whom he considers to be broad minded of all the village elders, he meets Kunwar Narendra Pratap Singh (Vijayendra Ghatge) Manorama's to-be-groom, who not only is more wealthier than Manorama's family, but Manorama also expresses her infatuation towards the man. Devdhar does not express her feelings and only persons who with slight idea about it are his cousin Radha and Manorama's mother Chhoti Maa.
Kunwar Narendra Pratap Singh loves Manorama dearly however he dies three days after the marriage in a road accident and she becomes a widow. At her own home, she is being prepared to have her head shaved against the protest of Chhoti Maa and Bade Thakur when Raj Rani (Tanuja), sister-in-law of Kunwar Narendra Pratap Singh intervenes and takes Manorama with her. Where she slowly tries to piece her life together with help of her Raj Rani and her son but one day, after Raja Virendra Pratap Singh (Raza Murad), her brother-in-law, rapes her, she returns to her parental home. When Devdhar learns of the situation, he works to rebuild Manorama's life and bring a smile to her face. Devdhar is determined to revive her faith in life and love. In doing so, he eventually has to face the wrath of the powerful Thakur, armed with old-age traditions and customs in his favor.
Manorama had only confessed to her mother about the events post her widow ship. Her brother-in-law and father both are enraged about her affair with Devdhar and swear to kill Devdhar and force her to go back to her in-law's palace. A battle ensues in the village and in the end they both reunite.

Cast
Rishi Kapoor as Devdhar "Dev," a penniless-but-educated orphan raised by his maternal uncle
Padmini Kolhapure as Manorama "Rama" Singh, the daughter of the local aristocratic family
Shammi Kapoor as Bade Raja Thakur, Rama's paternal uncle
Nanda as Chhoti Maa, Rama's mother
Tanuja as Raj Rani, wife of Raja Virendra Pratap Singh
Sushma Seth as Badi Maa, wife of Bade Raja
Kulbhushan Kharbanda as Virendra "Vir" Singh, Rama's father
Raza Murad as Raja Virendra Pratap Singh Narendra's elder brother
Om Prakash as Panditji, the priest; Dev's maternal uncle
Dulari as Panditji's wife
Vijayendra Ghatge as Kunwar Narendra Pratap Singh, Rama's ex husband
Bindu as Chamiya

Soundtrack
All songs are composed by Laxmikant–Pyarelal.

Reception
Critical reception
Prem Rog received widespread critical acclaim for its direction, story, screenplay, soundtrack, cinematography and performances of the cast, with particular praise directed towards Kolhapure's performance.
It was listed by Cosmopolitan magazine as one of its "Top 10 Most Romantic Films Ever".

Box-Office
Prem Rog grossed ₹13 crore, including a nett of ₹6.5 crore, becoming the second highest-grossing film of 1982 after Vidhaata. 
Box Office India gave it a verdict of a 'blockbuster'.

Awards and nominations
Passage 5:
Shree 420
Shree 420 (also spelled as Shri 420; transl. Mr. 420) is a 1955 Indian Hindi comedy-drama film directed and produced by Raj Kapoor from a story written by Khwaja Ahmad Abbas whose use of Shree with the negative connotations of 420 caused controversy. The film stars Nargis, Nadira, and Kapoor. The number 420 refers to Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code, which prescribes the punishment for the offence of fraud; hence, "Mr. 420" is a derogatory term for a fraud. The film centers on Raj Kapoor, a poor but educated orphan who comes to Bombay with dreams of success. Kapoor's character is influenced by Charlie Chaplin's "little tramp", much like Kapoor's character in his 1951 Awaara. The music was composed by the team of Shankar Jaikishan, and the lyrics were penned by Shailendra and Hasrat Jaipuri.
Shree 420 was the highest-grossing Indian film of 1955, the highest grossing Indian film of all time at the time of its release and the song "Mera Joota Hai Japani" ("My Shoes are Japanese"), sung by Mukesh, became popular and a patriotic symbol of the newly independent India.

Plot
A country boy, Raj (Raj Kapoor), from Allahabad, travels to the big city, Bombay, by walking, to earn a living. He falls in love with the poor but virtuous Vidya (Nargis), but is soon seduced by the riches of a freewheeling and unethical lifestyle presented to him by an unscrupulous and dishonest businessman, Seth Sonachand Dharmanand (Nemo) and the sultry temptress Maya (Nadira). He eventually becomes a confidence trickster, or "420," who even cheats in card gambling. Vidya tries hard to make Raj a good man, but fails.Meanwhile, Sonachand comes up with a Ponzi scheme to exploit poor people, whereby he promises permanent homes to them at just Rs. 100. The scheme pays off, as people start hoarding money for a home, even at the cost of other important things. Vidya's contempt for Raj increases even more. Raj becomes wealthy but soon realizes that he paid a very high price for it. When Raj discovers that Sonachand has no plans to fulfill his promises, he decides to make wrongs right.
Raj takes all the bond papers of the people's homes and tries to flee Sonachand's home, only to be caught by Sonachand and his cronies. In a scuffle that occurs, Sonachand shoots Raj and he falls unconscious. When people hear the shooting, they come and see Raj nearly dead. Sonachand tells police that Raj was trying to flee after stealing money from his safe, hence Sonachand shot him.
Upon this, the "dead" Raj springs back to life, and using pure logic, proves Sonachand's guilt. Sonachand and his partners are arrested, while Vidya happily forgives Raj. The film ends with Raj saying "Yeh 420 Nahin, Shree 420 Hain" ("These are not simply con men, they are respectable con men").

Cast
Cast in order of the opening credits of the film

Allusions
The title refers to section 420 of the Indian penal code, where crimes of theft and deception are punished, which relates to the troubles of the main character.
In Sanskrit, the name of the main character, "Vidya", means knowledge, while "Maya" means Illusion.
The title of one of the songs in the movie is "Ramaiya Vastavaiya" is in Telugu, which means "Lord Ram, you will come". The title alone is derived from an old Telugu folk song. Apart from that, the rest of the song's lyrics (and the film) are in Hindi. The story goes, the Telugu dubbed version of the film Aah, 1953 was so well received that Raj Kapoor was elated and showed his gratitude for Telugu audiences by having a song in the film beginning with these lines.
At the beginning of the movie, the main protagonist explains to a policeman that one needs to stand on one's head to make sense of this world. He mentions that this is the reason why even great leaders stand on their heads. This is an allusion to several political leaders of that time who enjoyed practicing the Shirshasana, a yoga asana where one stands on his head. In his autobiography, Nehru described that the shirshasana was his favorite pose, and how he often did the shirshasana in jail, too.

Production
Raj Kapoor's real life children Randhir, Ritu and Rishi were featured in the song "Pyar Hua Iqrar Hua", Rishi revealed that Nargis bribed him with chocolate and recalled it in a 2017 interview.

Reception
The song "Mera Joota Hai Japani", in which the singer asserts his pride in being an Indian, despite his clothes being from other countries, became, and remains, a patriotic favourite among many Indians. It is often referenced, including in an acceptance speech at the Frankfurt Book Fair in 2006 by Bengali author Mahasweta Devi.
The film proved to be popular in other countries, including the Soviet Union, Romania, and Israel. In Russia, it was said that Raj Kapoor was as popular as Jawaharlal Nehru, due to the success of Awaara and Shree 420. In Israel, the song "Ichak Dana Beechak Dana" (transliterated as "Ichikidana") became popular and was re-recorded by local singer Naim Rajuan.

Box office
At the Indian box office in 1955, the film grossed ₹3.9 crore (equivalent to ₹421 crore or US$53 million in 2023), with a net income of ₹2 crore (equivalent to ₹216 crore or US$27 million in 2023). This record was beaten two years later by Mother India in 1957.It was released in the Soviet Union in 1956, coming second on the Soviet box office charts that year. Despite being imported at an unusually high price, it was the most successful foreign film of the year at the Soviet box office, drawing an audience of 35 million viewers.

Soundtrack
Awards
1956: Filmfare Awards
Best Cinematographer: Radhu Karmakar
Best Editing: G.G. Mayekar
National Film Awards1956: Certificate of Merit for the Second Best Feature Film in Hindi

See also
Raju Ban Gaya Gentleman

Notes
Passage 6:
Karan Kapoor
Karan Kapoor (born 18 January 1962) is an Indian photographer, actor and model. He is the son of actors Shashi Kapoor and Jennifer Kendal. His paternal grandfather was Prithviraj Kapoor and his paternal uncles are Raj Kapoor and Shammi Kapoor. His elder brother Kunal Kapoor and younger sister Sanjana Kapoor have also acted in some films. His maternal grandparents, Geoffrey Kendal and Laura Kendal, were actors who toured India and Asia with their theatre group, Shakespearana, performing Shakespeare and Shaw. The Merchant Ivory film, Shakespeare Wallah, was loosely based on the family, which starred his father and his maternal aunt, actress Felicity Kendal.

Personal life
Karan Kapoor was born on 18 January 1962 to actor Shashi Kapoor and British theatre actress Jennifer Kendal. Early in his career he was a popular model made famous by the Bombay Dyeing advertisement campaign and he also acted in Sultanat (1986), opposite Juhi Chawla as well as later in Loha with Dharmendra. Karan now runs a photography company in the UK. He was married to English model Lorna Tarling Kapoor; the couple are now separated. They have a daughter, Aliya Kapoor and son Zak Kapoor.
Kapoor has two siblings. His brother Kunal Kapoor formerly acted in Bollywood movies and now runs ad company Adfilms Valas. Kunal was married to filmmaker Ramesh Sippy's daughter Sheena, who is a well known photographer. They also have two children, Shaira and Zahan. Kunal and Sheena are now divorced.His sister Sanjana Kapoor runs the Prithvi Theatre.
Jennifer Kapoor was diagnosed with terminal colon cancer in 1982 and succumbed to the disease in 1984.

Career
He made his debut in Shyam Benegal's critically acclaimed 1978 film Junoon, which also featured his parents and both siblings. He had a minor part in his father's production 36 Chowringhee Lane (1981). He appeared in the British television series The Jewel in the Crown in 1984.
Karan had a short presenting stint for the BBC's Asian magazine Network East in 1994.
He made his debut in mainstream Bollywood films with Sultanat (1986), alongside Dharmendra, Sunny Deol and Juhi Chawla. He later acted in Loha (1987) and Afsar in 1988, but did not have many offers as an actor. He also modeled major Indian brands, including Bombay Dyeing.He has since become a photographer and lives in Chelsea, London, with his wife Lorna, his daughter Aliya, and Zach, his son.After a gap of nearly 25 years, Karan has now come back into the public and returned to India with a series of his photography exhibitions, Time & Tide. Karan's Time & Tide photography exhibition started in his home town Mumbai in November 2016 then taking place in Bangalore, Kolkata, New Delhi, Ahmedabad & Jaipur throughout 2017. Karan has done much research in the Anglo-Indian communities and travelled through various parts of India in the 1980s to meet these communities and has taken photographs. His articles were published in the BBC, Indian Express, Hindustan Times and other newspapers in November 2016. In his recent interview, Karan said that he is quite keen to do more photography projects in India, because his children have now grown up so he could spend more time in India. Karan also said that he was always interested in photography since his childhood even though being a part of very famous Bollywood family of Kapoors. Karan's elder brother Kunal Kapoor is now a leading ad-maker of India and younger sister Sanjana Kapoor runs the Junoon foundation to promote arts, culture and drama.

Filmography
Actor
TV Series
The Jewel in the Crown (1984 British TV Series on ITV) as Colin Lindsey
South of the Border (1990 British TV Series) as Max Wilding
The Tooting Lions (1993 British TV movie) as Kool
 BBC Network East 1994

Still photographer
The Bostonians (1984)
Utsav (1984)

Miscellaneous Crew
Vijeta (1982)

Awards
His photograph "Old Couple" won the International Photography Awards 2009 in the People/Lifestyle category. It was one of five nominations he received that year.
Passage 7:
Mera Naam Joker
Mera Naam Joker (transl. "My Name is Joker") is a 1970 Indian  romantic drama film, directed, edited and produced by Raj Kapoor under his banner R. K. Films, and written by Khwaja Ahmad Abbas. The film stars Raj Kapoor as the eponymous character, with his son Rishi Kapoor making his screen debut playing his younger version, along with Simi Garewal, Kseniya Ryabinkina, Padmini, Manoj Kumar and Dharmendra in supporting roles. The plot focuses on a clown who must make his audience laugh at the cost of his own sorrows; three women who shaped his life view his final performance.
The film is one of the lengthiest films of Indian cinema. Mera Naam Joker is the second and to date last Indian film to have two intervals, the first being Sangam (1964). After Sangam became a blockbuster, Mera Naam Joker was highly anticipated as it was under production for six years and heavily publicized, loosely based on Kapoor's own life. The film was partly made with the participation of Soviet actors and was partly shot in Moscow. The film's music, still very popular, was composed by Shankar Jaikishan, for which the duo got their ninth Filmfare award. In India, upon release the film was critical and commercial failure, putting Kapoor into a financial crisis, as the film was panned for its length and plot. The film has gained a cult status, and is regarded as a classic today. Both audience's and critics' response has turned highly favourable with the passage of time.
An abridged version was released in the 1980s and had a highly successful run at the box office. Kapoor termed it his favourite film and described it as having deep philosophical depth and meaning. The film is regarded as one of Kapoor's finest works today with film experts labeling it as a "misunderstood masterpiece". The film later on became a cult classic and is regarded as one of Raj Kapoor's best films and among the best Bollywood films of the 20th century. In the Soviet Union, the film also initially drew mixed reviews from critics, yet commercially became a blockbuster at the Soviet box office after it released there in 1972. Rather than being released as a single film, the film's three chapters were released separately as three parts in the Soviet Union. The three parts of the film collectively sold 73.1 million tickets at the Soviet box office.

Plot
Three women, Mary, Marina, and Meena, are each sent a toy clown and invited to the last performance of the famous clown Raj Ranbir aka Raju, in his first time on stage in 20 years. The stories of these three women and their relationships with Raju are told through a series of flashbacks during his performance.

Chapter I
As a chubby, clumsy 16 year old, Raju is known to his schoolmates as the class clown. Unlike the rest of the students at his private Christian school, Raju is poor and lives nearby with his mother and no one else. When a new teacher, Mary, comes to his school, she encourages Raju to find his ambitions and makes him more confident in himself. One day, after coming home, Raju asks his mother what his deceased father did. Despite rejecting this question in the past, she finally answers that he had worked as a clown in the circus, and died in an accident there. Raju proclaims that he will be just like his father and make everyone laugh, to the horror of his mother, who says his father had only given her tears. On a school trip to the forest, Mary accidentally falls into the river . After she comes out, Raju becomes entranced by the sight of her leg. He then follows her to a grove, where he sees her undressing. When he tries to sleep that night, Raju imagines her nude. He goes to the church to confess (Raju thinks himself a sinner for imagining his teacher nude); and after he does that Mary sees him there, and when he says he committed a sin she says that he can't have committed a sin as he is a child, Raju replies that he isn't one. When Mary and the rest of the students leave for the holidays, Raju gifts her a toy clown that his father had. Afterwards, he roams around the school, lonely and depressed. When Mary comes back, Raju is startled to discover that she has a male companion named David with her. After Raju comes to the couple's house, David starts becoming suspicious, and confronts him after he leaves but still waits outside. When Raju drops his books in shock, David discovers a paper with her picture and a heart surrounding it. Raju's mother becomes sick, and he starts dressing as a clown to sell various concoctions on the roadside to pay the school fees. However, after his classmate's mother sees him, Raju is expelled. Mary consoles him, and tells him that she will also be leaving to marry David. He attends the wedding as best man. Before the newlyweds drive off to their new life, David gifts Raju back the toy clown.

Chapter II
Raju and his ill mother move to several cities over the years before coming to Bombay. Now an adult, Raju is working as a clown at a local fair. When a group of Russian entertainers come to Gemini Circus to promote Indo-Soviet relations, he sneaks in with them and pockets their first payment. Raju claims that he is the Russian ringleader, which immediately causes Gemini's own ringleader, Sher Singh, to conspire against him. During his initial performance, Sher Singh switched off the lights, which lands Raju in a dangerous situation. After the actual ringmaster comes in, Sher Singh saves Raju and brings him to a meeting to explain himself. Raju explains that he needed a job to take care of his mother, and that he had to resort to this drama to get into the circus. Realizing his potential, circus owner Mahendra Kumar hires him. Marina, the lead trapezist, also notices him, and despite the language barrier, they become close. He comes back to his mother and tells her that he got a job, but leaves out the details. She hopes that he will be able to find a wife to "complete" the family. Soon, Raju is hired as a clown, and eventually he and Marina fall in love, with his toy clown being given away once again. However, Mahendra reminds him that the artists will be going back soon, and discourages his love. Raju and Marina meet again, and Marina realizes that his mother sees her as his future wife. She visits her again, but leaves her the toy clown departs tearfully. Raju's mother realizes through the poster that wrapped the toy that he is a clown once again, and rushes to the circus on the day of the Russians' last performance. Seeing him on the trapeze, Raju's mother dies, being reminded of the accident which caused her husband's death. Despite his sorrow, Raju performs as a clown that night. Afterwards, he decides to resign, citing his mother death. The chapter ends with Raju seeing Marina off at the airport.

Chapter III
Alone again, Raju wanders on the beach and throws his toy clown into the sea. A dog runs out to catch it and give it back. The dog belongs to the orphan Meenu, and the three partner up to make a roadside show and live together in an abandoned house. One day, Meenu's shirt is torn and Raju, upon discovering that she is a girl, deserts her. After a while, he comes back to her home, where she explains that her real name is Meena and that she had to act like a boy to survive on her own in the city, which she had fled to, to achieve her dream of becoming a famous actress. Raju gifts her a saree, but despite the explanation, Raju is mad that their friendship was based on a lie and leaves. After Meena confesses her love for him, Raju changes his mind. Their singing gets noticed and the duo start performing at a qawwali venue. One day, the dog gets taken by the city pound, mistaken for a stray. While Raju mourns the loss of their companion, Meena says that they have no use for it anymore. Her attitude shocks Raju and he figures that she only uses love as a tool to use others. Despite his pity for the qawwali venue owner who had already pre-paid them, Meena makes them move into theatre acting. While Meena maintains that she loves him, Raju is suspicious. After a while, Meena is noticed by movie star Rajendra Kumar, who wants a new heroine for his next film. Although Raju accompanies Meena to the screen tests, Kumar tells him that in order for her to become a great actress, Raju must leave. After a farewell at their old house, Raju is left alone with his toy clown.
The film then transitions back to his last show. After a song Raju announces an intermission of indeterminate length, but then reassures the audience that the "joker" still has more to perform to keep his audience laughing. The film ends with the words "Positively Not The End".

Cast
Raj Kapoor as Raju
Rajendra Kumar as Self
Manoj Kumar as David
Dharmendra as Mahendra Kumar
Padmini as Meena Bansal / Meenu Master
Simi Garewal as Mary
Kseniya Ryabinkina as Marina
Dara Singh as Sher Singh
Om Prakash as Circus Surgeon
Rishi Kapoor as Junior Raju
Rajendra Nath as Circus Surgeon
Achala Sachdev as Raju's mother
Eduard Sjereda as a Member of the Soviet State Circus

Soundtrack
Production
Mera Naam Joker was under production for six years, with Raj Kapoor investing much of his own personal fortune. All his assets were mortgaged. The film has three chapters. Originally, it was to have six chapters. Khwaja Ahmad Abbas wrote the screenplay with Kapoor on mind, and several instances in the story was based on Kapoor's own life, such as the Christian school teacher episode. Kapoor approached each chapter as it were three separate films. He shot the third chapter first as Padmini and Rajendra Kumar were available at the time. By the time he began the first chapter, he was behind schedule and over the budget. The school scenes were shot at St. Paul's School, Jalapahar, Darjeeling, West Bengal, India. The film was five hours long.The film also makes references to Raj Kapoor's career throughout. The popular title track of 'Awaara' (1951) is used near the end of the second chapter. In the song 'Kehta Hai Joker Saara Zamana', a child looks up reels of 'Shree 420' (1955) in a bioscope, which feature Nargis, who formed an iconic pair with Raj Kapoor in the 40s and 50s . The poster of Kapoor's previous film 'Sangam (1964 Hindi film)' is also seen.

Reception
India
Upon release in India, Mera Naam Joker was widely derided for its length and the experimental nature of its plot, and it became a critical and commercial failure. The film had two intervals. It later came to be considered a cult classic, and it is considered one of Kapoor's best films. Its reputation was revived, which happened after India was introduced to world cinema. Kapoor's mask was burned in a fire at RK Studios.

Soviet Union
In the Soviet Union, the film's distribution rights were sold for ₹15 lakh (US$199,351.44), the highest for an Indian film up until then. Upon release, the film initially also drew a mixed reaction from Russian critics. Despite this, the film became a commercial blockbuster at the Soviet box office after it released there in 1972. Rather than being released as a single film, the film's three chapters were released separately as three parts in the Soviet Union. The first part drew 29 million box office admissions, the second part drew 22.6 million admissions, and the final part 21.5 million admissions, adding up to a total of 73.1 million admissions at the Soviet box office. This was equivalent to an estimated 18.28 million Rbls ($22.13 million, ₹16.81 crore) at the time, or $155 million (₹1,059 crore) adjusted for inflation in 2022.

Themes and Analysis
The film was deeply philosophical which was part of the reason it wasn't a success when it same out.
The crux of the film is how Raju, the joker, entertains people and makes them laugh, but to do so hides many hardships and heartbreaks of his own life. The 'Joker' is an allegory for not just clowns, but artists and entertainers of all kinds, like Raj Kapoor himself.
The film shows that the audience does not concern itself with the person who is performing but accepts only the performer divorced from his personal situation, his emotions and even from his real persona, the audience embraces only the character that entertains them and does not associate with the real person playing that character. It also implies that life itself is a performance, literally turning Raju's life into chapters of a film. 
Therefore, to the “Joker” there is no reality outside performance, he only belongs to the stage, to his character, to the performance, and the audience.
In the end Raju gives a speech to the audience where he says that the "show" will always go on, although it may have different characters, meaning that artists will go through the same across generations. 
The film is also semi-autobiographical, reportedly based on the life experiences of Raj Kapoor.

Awards
18th National Film Awards:Best Child Artist – Rishi Kapoor
Best Male Playback Singer – Manna Dey for "Ae Bhai Zara Dekh Ke Chalo"
Best Cinematography (Color) – Radhu Karmakar
19th Filmfare Awards:
Won

Best Director – Raj Kapoor
Best Music Director – Shankar–Jaikishan
Best Male Playback Singer – Manna Dey for "Ae Bhai Zara Dekh Ke Chalo"
Best Cinematography – Radhu Karmakar
Best Sound Design – Allauddin Khan QureshiNominated

Best Film – Raj Kapoor
Best Lyricist – Gopaldas Neeraj for "Ae Bhai Zara Dekh Ke Chalo"

See also
List of highest-grossing Indian films in overseas markets
Passage 8:
Mike Cahill (director)
Mike Cahill (born July 5, 1979) is an American filmmaker.

Early life and education
Mike Cahill was born in New Haven, Connecticut, on July 5, 1979. His first forays into filmmaking were with Fisher-Price and VHS camcorders when he was young. He gained his first credit as a documentarian at the age of 17, when he and a friend directed a film titled The Pocket, about D.C go-go music.After high school, Cahill studied economics at Georgetown University, graduating in 2001. While a student there he formed a close relationship with professional colleague and friend Brit Marling, whom he met at a Georgetown film festival, and the two began working on short films together where Marling would act and Cahill would direct.

Career
While still in his senior year at Georgetown, Cahill began interning with National Geographic Television and Film, soon becoming their youngest field producer, editor and cinematographer. He and Marling collaborated on Boxers and Ballerinas (2004), an exploration of the U.S.–Cuba conflict through the lives of four characters, while living in Cuba. Cahill next moved to Los Angeles. There he was taken on as editor for two Sundance features, Leonard Cohen: I'm Your Man and Everyone Stares: The Police Inside Out.2011 was Cahill's pivotal year. His first feature film as director, co-written with Marling, Another Earth, about a parallel planet Earth, won the Alfred P. Sloan Prize at the 2011 Sundance Film Festival and was picked up for distribution by Fox Searchlight Pictures. Variety reported: "[It] has been deemed one of the more highly praised pics of the fest as it received a standing ovation after the screening and strong word of mouth from buyers and festgoers." The distributor Fox Searchlight Pictures won distribution rights to the film in a deal worth $1.5 million to $2 million, beating out other distributors including Focus Features and the Weinstein Company.Cahill's second feature film I Origins again won the Alfred P. Sloan Prize, this time at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival, making Cahill the only person to have received the award twice. The film was picked up for distribution by Fox Searchlight.In 2011, before the release of I Origins, a press release by Fox Searchlight stated that Cahill was working on a film about reincarnation and another about "a fashion designer who lives at the bottom of the sea." As of 2015 he is also working on a sequel of I Origins. "There's a sequel in the works. It's not scripted. We're not in production yet, but we set up at Fox Searchlight".Starting in 2015, Cahill is an executive producer of the Syfy TV show The Magicians, and directed the pilot episode. He is also an executive producer on The Path, and directed the first two episodes.

Influences
Cahill has cited Julian Schnabel as a significant influence on his work. He considers Krzysztof Kieslowski one of his favorite filmmakers, specifically citing The Double Life of Véronique as having a profound impact on him. Cahill, who has a casual interest in astronomy, was also influenced by the work of astronomer Richard Berendzen, in particular, Berendzen's audiobook Pulp Physics. He is also an admirer of Carl Sagan and Isaac Asimov.He has always admired science.His favorite movie of all time is 2001: A Space Odyssey. "Because that movie, what it presents to you, can’t be articulated in any other form than as a movie," he said.

Filmography
Awards and nominations
Passage 9:
Aag (1948 film)
Aag (English: Fire) is a 1948 Indian Hindi language musical drama film which is produced, directed by and stars Raj Kapoor. The film marked the debut of Kapoor as producer and director and was the first film produced by his R.K. banner. Nargis, Premnath, Nigar Sultana and Kamini Kaushal also starred in supporting roles. Raj Kapoor's youngest brother Shashi Kapoor appeared as a child artist in this film playing the younger version of his character (Kewal). This marked the first of more than a dozen films in which Raj Kapoor and Nargis appeared together

Plot
The film opens with a groom approaching his new bride, called Sudha, on their wedding night. The bride, upon seeing the groom screams because his face is disfigured due to burns. The groom then starts telling the bride his story and the remainder of the film is a flashback told to the bride by the groom. The story is about a boy, named Kewal (played by Shashi Kapoor), who is obsessed with theatre but is descended from a family of lawyers. The boy Kewal is fascinated by a girl named Nirmala, nicknamed Nimmi, a classmate in school when he was aged 10 years. They both enjoy theatre and Kewal shares his dream of opening a theatre company and starring in his play with Nimmi as the female lead while watching a play in their school. He soon plans to stage a play in his neighbourhood with Nimmi, but she deserts him because her family moves to a different city on the day of the premiere. The young Kewal takes this to heart, but after finishing school, Kewal (now played by Raj Kapoor) reluctantly submits to his father's (Kamal Kapoor) demands to continue the family tradition by studying law and become a successful lawyer just like him and his forefathers. At College, Kewal meets another Nirmala (who asks him to call her Nimmi, after hearing his story of childhood love). He again plans to stage a play, but the second Nimmi also deserts him because her parents have decided to marry her off to a man who lives in England on the day of the premiere. Kewal is distracted and fails his law exam. This forces him to a reckoning that he has no real interest in becoming a lawyer and would like to pursue his childhood dream of owning his theatre company to write, direct, and produce plays. He argues with his father and is asked to leave the house and despite his mother's protestations, decides to chart his path in life and pursue his dreams. After a little struggle, he luckily finds a patron of the arts named Rajan, (Premnath), who is the owner of a theater company, that has closed down. Kewal and Rajin strike up a creative partnership and a friendship for Kewal to write and produce plays and Rajan to finance these. During the preparation for his play, Kewal discovers a woman made homeless by Partition (Nargis) and casts her as the lead in his play.  With the finances and a leader in place, Kewal's dreams can now, at last, be realised; Kewal suggests that Nargis's character (who is not named) takes the name, Nimmi (a third incarnation). Rajan is besotted by Nimmi, but Nimmi is in love with Kewal, who remains unaware of Nimmi's feelings towards him. This conflict comes to a head on the opening night of Rajan and Kewal's first production; Rajan goes berserk and rips all his pictures of Nimmi that he has painted. Kewal, only now, discovers the reality of the situation with Rajin and tries to convince Nimmi that she should get together with Rajan, who is his friend and mentor; Nimmi pleads that she is in love with Kewal and not Rajan. The play starts (with Kewal's parents with whom he has patched up relations are in the audience) and Kewal takes a lit torch (the Aag or fire) and burns his face. During this act, of what Kewal perceives as a sacrifice to save his friendship with Rajan, the stage catches fire and the whole production company is burnt to the ground and he is disfigured. Kewal then confronts Nimmi, who is repulsed by his disfigurement and tells her that she only liked him because of his outer beauty and only the true Nimmi liked him for who he is on the inside. Nimmi (Nargis's version) visits Kewal in the hospital with his face bandaged. Nimmi offers flowers and Kewal notices a ring on her finger which Nimmi tells him was given to her by Rajan; Kewal wishes her well and she slips away. The camera cuts back to the present, the wedding night, where Kewal is telling Sudha that his childhood Nimmi understood him and only she will accept him for who he is. Sudha suggests that Kewal would not know if Nimmi was standing in front of him. Sudha turns out to be the original Nimmi (from Kewal's childhood) and accepts Kewal for who he is. Kewal and Nimmi renew their vow of opening a theatre company together.

Cast
Raj Kapoor as Kewal Khanna
Shashi Kapoor as Young Kewal Khanna
Nargis as Nimmi
Kamini Kaushal as Miss Nirmala
Nigar Sultana as Sudha
Kamal Kapoor as Kewal Khanna's father
Premnath as Rajan

Music
The music for this film was composed and conducted by Ram Ganguly. For his next film Barsaat, Raj Kapoor took Shankar–Jaikishan as music director and this duo went on to produce subsequent scores for R. K. Films.
The tracks in this film are written by Behzad Lucknavi and Deepak.

Box office
This film was not a major success and did Average business at the box office. As a director, Raj Kapoor had his first major hit with Barsaat (1949).
Passage 10:
Raj Kapoor
Raj Kapoor (pronounced [raːdʒ kəˈpuːɾ]; born Shrishti Nath Kapoor; 14 December 1924 – 2 June 1988), also known as Ranbir Raj Kapoor, was an Indian actor, film director and producer, who worked in Hindi cinema. He is considered one of the greatest and most influential actors and filmmakers in history of Indian cinema, and has been referred to as The Greatest Showman of Indian Cinema and as the Charlie Chaplin of Indian Cinema.Born in Peshawar as the son of Prithviraj Kapoor of the Kapoor family, Raj Kapoor starred in and produced many films for which he received multiple accolades, including three National Film Awards and 11 Filmfare Awards in India. He was inspired by Charlie Chaplin and played characters based on The Tramp in films such as Awaara (1951, also as producer) and Shree 420 (1955). His performance in Awaara was ranked as one of the "Top-Ten Greatest Performances of All Time in World Cinema" by Time magazine in 2005; both that and his other produced film Boot Polish (1954) competed for the Palme d'Or grand prize at the Cannes Film Festival.
His films were global commercial successes in parts of Asia, the Middle East, the Caribbean, Africa and the Soviet bloc. The Government of India honoured him with the Padma Bhushan in 1971 for his contributions to the arts. India's highest award in cinema, the Dadasaheb Phalke Award, was bestowed on him in 1987 by the Government of India.

Early life and background
Raj Kapoor was born as Shrishti Nath Kapoor on 14 December 1924 at Kapoor Haveli, a large house then owned by his grandfather in the Qissa Khwani Bazaar neighborhood of Peshawar, British India into a Punjabi Hindu family of the Kapoor clan, who belonged to the Dhai Ghar Khatri community. His parents were Prithviraj Kapoor and Ramsarni Devi Kapoor (née Mehra). The Kapoor family hailed originally from Samundri, Samundri Tehsil, Lyallpur District, Punjab Province, British India. He was the eldest sibling of six children in the family. He was the grandson of Dewan Basheshwarnath Kapoor, great-grandson of Dewan Keshavmal Kapoor, and great-great-grandson of Dewan Murli Mal Kapoor, and was part of the famous Kapoor family. His brothers were the late actors Shammi Kapoor and Shashi Kapoor. He also had a sister named Urmila Sial. Two other siblings died in infancy. Kapoor's family later on moved from Peshawar, North-West Frontier Province to Bombay, Bombay Presidency for residence and for education.
He is the nephew of actor Trilok Kapoor, who is the younger brother of his father Prithviraj Kapoor. His first cousin was actor Subbiraj who was his father's sister's son.
His father's cousin was film producer Surinder Kapoor, whose children are producer Boney Kapoor and actors Anil Kapoor and Sanjay Kapoor. His father's maternal first cousins were actors Kamal Kapoor, Ravindra Kapoor, and Nandkishore Kapoor. Kamal Kapoor's grandson is filmmaker Goldie Behl. His maternal first cousin, Juggal Kishore Mehra, was a singer, whose step-granddaughter, Salma Agha, later became an actress and singer.
As Prithviraj moved from city to city early in his career during the 1930s, the family had to move too. Raj Kapoor attended several different schools like Colonel Brown Cambridge School in Dera Doon, St Xavier's Collegiate School in Calcutta and Campion School in Bombay.

Career
At the age of ten, he appeared in a Hindi film for the first time, in 1935's Inquilab. Raj Kapoor's big break came with the lead role in Neel Kamal (1947) opposite Madhubala in her first role as a leading lady. In 1948, at the age of twenty-four, he established his own studio, R. K. Films, and became the youngest film director of his time making his directorial debut with Aag starring himself, Nargis, Kamini Kaushal and Premnath. In 1949 he co-starred alongside Dilip Kumar and Nargis in Mehboob Khan's Andaz which was his first big hit as an actor. He had his first success as producer, director and actor in another major blockbuster Barsaat which released later that year.He went on to produce and star in several hit films made under his R. K. Banner including  Awaara (1951), Shree 420 (1955) and Jis Desh Men Ganga Behti Hai (1960), the last was directed by Radhu Karmakar, his longtime cinematographer, and which won Filmfare Award for Best Film. These films established his screen image modeled on Charlie Chaplin's most famous screen persona of The Tramp. Outside of his home productions, his other notable films as a leading actor included Dastan (1950), Anhonee (1952), Chori Chori (1956), Phir Subah Hogi (1958), Anari (1959), Chhalia (1960) and Dil Hi To Hai (1963). He also produced the hit social films Boot Polish (1954) and Ab Dilli Door Nahin (1957).In 1964, he produced, directed and starred in the romantic musical Sangam alongside Rajendra Kumar and Vyjayanthimala which was his first film in colour. This was his last major success as a leading actor as his later films like  Around the World (1966) and Sapnon Ka Saudagar (1968) with younger starlets Rajshree and Hema Malini were box office flops. In 1965 he was a member of the jury at the 4th Moscow International Film Festival.In 1970 he produced, directed and starred in his ambitious film Mera Naam Joker which took more than six years to complete. His son Rishi Kapoor made his debut in this film playing the younger version of his character. When released in 1970, it was a box office disaster and put Kapoor and his family into a financial crisis. In later years it was acknowledged as a cult classic. In 1971, he launched his eldest son Randhir Kapoor in the family drama Kal Aaj Aur Kal starring himself, his son Randhir, his father Prithviraj Kapoor as well as Randhir's to-be wife Babita. He launched his second son Rishi Kapoor's career in 1973 when he produced and directed Bobby which was a huge box office success and introduced actress Dimple Kapadia, later a very popular actress; it was the first of a new generation of teen romances. Dimple wore bikinis which was quite unique for Indian films then. In 1975 he acted alongside his son Randhir again in Dharam Karam, which Randhir also directed.
In the latter half of the 1970s and early 1980s he produced and directed films that focused on the female protagonists: Satyam Shivam Sundaram (1978) with Zeenat Aman, Prem Rog (1982) with Padmini Kolhapure and Ram Teri Ganga Maili (1985) which introduced Mandakini. He acted in fewer films by the late 1970s and early 1980s but played a notable supporting role alongside Rajesh Khanna in Naukri (1978) and as the titular character alongside Sanjay Khan in Abdullah (1980). He played a detective in two comedy films: Do Jasoos (1975) and Gopichand Jasoos (1982), both directed by Naresh Kumar (brother of Rajendra Kumar). In 1979 he was a member of the jury at the 11th Moscow International Film Festival. Raj Kapoor's last major film appearance was in Vakil Babu (1982) where he appeared with his younger brother Shashi. A film he had shot and completed in 1982 titled Chor Mandali in which he appeared opposite fellow veteran actor Ashok Kumar remained unreleased due to a legal dispute. His last acting role was a cameo appearance in a 1984 released British made-for-television film titled Kim.
He was set to direct Henna starring his son Rishi and Pakistani actress Zeba Bakhtiar before his death in 1988. His son Randhir directed the film and it released in 1991.

Personal life
On 12 May 1946, Raj Kapoor married Krishna Malhotra. Krishna was one of nine siblings, and following her marriage, many of them joined the Hindi film industry. Her brothers, Rajendra Nath, Prem Nath and Narendra Nath, later became actors, and her sister Uma is married to actor Prem Chopra.
Raj and Krishna Kapoor had five children: three sons, actors Randhir Kapoor (1947–), Rishi Kapoor (1952–2020) and Rajiv Kapoor (1962–2021), and two daughters, Ritu Nanda (1949–2020) and Rima Jain (1955–). Randhir is married to former actress Babita and is the father of actresses Karishma Kapoor and Kareena Kapoor. Rishi was married to former actress Neetu Singh until his death and is father of two children, a daughter Riddhima Kapoor, and a son, actor Ranbir Kapoor. Raj Kapoor's elder daughter, Ritu Nanda, was married until their deaths to industrialist Rajan Nanda (scion of the family which promoted and controls the Escorts group), and she was the mother of two children :Her daughter Nitasha Nanda and her son, Nikhil Nanda, is married to Shweta, daughter of actors Amitabh Bachchan and Jaya Bachchan. Raj Kapoor's younger daughter, Rima Jain, is married to investment banker Manoj Jain and is the mother of Armaan Jain and Aadar Jain.
Both of Kapoor's brothers, all three of Kapoor's sons, two of Kapoor's daughters-in-law and three of Kapoor's grandchildren have been active at various times in the film industry. His granddaughters Karisma Kapoor and Kareena Kapoor (daughters of Kapoor's eldest son Randhir), and grandson Ranbir Kapoor (son of Kapoor's second son Rishi) are the latest Bollywood superstars from the Kapoor family, while another of his grandsons, Nikhil Nanda (Kapoor's daughter Ritu's son), is a noted industrialist.
Kapoor had a longtime romantic relationship with renowned actress Nargis Dutt during the 1940s and 1950s, despite being a married man, although neither ever publicly admitted to this. The couple starred in several films together, including Awaara and Shree 420. As Raj would not leave his wife and children, Nargis ended their relationship after Chori Chori and married Sunil Dutt with whom she fell in love on the set of Mother India (1957). In 2017, his second son Rishi confirmed his father's affair in his autobiography Khullam Khulla.Krishna Raj Kapoor died on 1 October 2018. Rajan Nanda, husband of Ritu Nanda died on 5 August 2018. In January 2020, Ritu Nanda herself died. She was followed three months later by her brother Rishi, Kapoor's second son, who died in April 2020. Kapoor's third and youngest son, Rajiv, died in February 2021.
Dilip Kumar, Mukesh, Dev Anand, Pran, Rajendra Kumar, Manna Dey, Shankar Jaikishan, Hrishikesh Mukherjee, Khwaja Ahmad Abbas and Rajesh Khanna were among Kapoor's closest friends from the movie industry.

Filmography
Death
Cause
Raj Kapoor suffered from asthma in his later years; he died of complications related to the disease in 1988 at the age of 63. He collapsed at the event where he was to receive the Dadasaheb Phalke Award in New Delhi, and was taken to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi for treatment. He was hospitalised for about a month before he succumbed to complications arising from his asthma. At the time of his death, he was working on the movie Henna (an Indo-Pakistan based love story). The film was later completed by his sons Randhir Kapoor and Rishi Kapoor and was released in 1991.

Memorial at family farm in Pune
His and his parents' Samadhi (memorial) is at their family farm "Rajbaugh", which means the "gardens of king". Located inside the MIT Art Design and Technology University (MIT ADTU), Rajbaugh lies on the banks of Mula-Mutha River in Loni Kalbhor village 30 km east of Pune in Maharashtra. Kapoor family sold part of 125 acres Rajbaugh to MIT ADTU which built a memorial for the Kapoor family on its campus. Memorial was unveiled in 2014 in the presence of Lata Mangeshkar and Kapoor clan. Kapoor family memorial has 7 pagodas showing elements of Raj Kapoor's movies, a museum or viewing gallery which showcases family photographs and moments from his movie making from 1945 to 1990. Raj Kapoor shot many of his films at this farm, including Satyam Shivam Sundaram, Mera Naam Joker, Bobby, and Prem Rog. The family Banglow inside the farm has been preserved; the popular song "Hum Tum Ek Kamre Mein Band Ho" was shot inside this banglow.

Legacy
Raj Kapoor is often referred as The Greatest Showman of Indian Cinema in the Indian media. Film historians and movie buffs speak of him as the "Charlie Chaplin of Indian cinema", since he often portrayed a tramp-like figure, who, despite adversity, was still cheerful and honest. His movies were popular in large parts of South/Central/Southeast Asia, the former Soviet Union/Bloc, China, the Middle East, and Africa; his movies were global commercial successes.Siddharth Kak made, Raj Kapoor, a feature film documentary on the actor in 1987 which was produced by the Government of India's Films Division.A postage stamp, bearing his face, was released by India Post to honour him on 14 December 2001. To honour him, a brass statue of his was unveiled at Walk of the Stars at Bandra Bandstand in Mumbai in March 2012.

Many of Raj Kapoor's movies had a patriotic theme. His films Aag, Shree 420 and Jis Desh Men Ganga Behti Hai (In the country where the Ganges flows) celebrated the newly independent India, and encouraged film-goers to be patriots. Raj Kapoor commissioned these famous lyrics for Mera Joota Hai Japani, a song from the movie Shree 420:

Mera joota hai Japani (My shoes are Japanese)
Ye patloon Inglistani (These trousers are English)
Sar pe lal topi Roosi (The red cap on my head is Russian)
Phir bhi dil hai Hindustani (But still, however, my heart is Indian)The song is still extremely popular and has been featured in a number of movies since Shree 420 was released. Indian author Mahasweta Devi stopped the show with her inaugural speech at the 2006 Frankfurt Book Fair when she used these lyrics to express her own heartfelt patriotism and debt to her country.
In 2014, Google commemorated his 90th birthday.Raj Kapoor was a canny judge of filmi music and lyrics. Many of the songs he commissioned are evergreen hits. He introduced the music directors Shankar–Jaikishan and the lyricists Hasrat Jaipuri and Shailendra. He is also remembered for his strong sense of visual style. He used striking visual compositions, elaborate sets, and dramatic lighting to complete the mood set by the music. He introduced the actresses Nimmi, Dimple Kapadia, and Mandakini, as well as launching and reviving the careers of his sons Rishi, Randhir and Rajiv. Famous for making his actresses reveal the body, not very common then in Indian cinema, it was said his 'show-womanship' matched his showmanship.Raj Kapoor's Shree 420 (1955) movie's Hindi song Mera Joota Hai Japani ("My Shoes are Japanese") was used in opening sequence of 20th Century Studios 2016 movie Deadpool, starring Ryan Reynolds.The 1967 "Song about Yogis" (Russian: Песенка про йогов) by Vladimir Vysotsky mentions Raj Kapoor as one of the three best-known symbols of Indian culture in the Soviet Union, along with Shiva and yoga.He was called "the Clark Gable of the Indian film industry".

Awards and honors
Kapoor had received many awards throughout his career, including 3 National Film Awards, 11 Filmfare Awards and 21 nominations. His films Awaara (1951) and Boot Polish (1954) were nominated for the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival. His acting in the former was rated as one of the "Top Ten Performances of All Time in World Cinema" by Time magazine. His film Jagte Raho (1956) also won the Crystal Globe award at the Karlovy Vary International Film Festival.
The Government of India honoured him with the Padma Bhushan in 1971 and the Dadasaheb Phalke Award in 1987 – the highest award for cinematic excellence in India. In 2001, he was honoured with "Best Director of the Millennium" by Stardust Awards. He was named "Showman of the Millennium" by Star Screen Awards in 2002.
In June 2011, Noah Cowan, artistic director of TIFF Bell Lightbox, and Sabbas Joseph, Director, Wizcraft along with members of the Kapoor family came together to pay tribute to the life and work of Indian actor, director, mogul and legend Raj Kapoor, as presented in partnership by TIFF (Toronto International Film Festival), the International Indian Film Academy (IIFA), and the Government of Ontario. In 2011, it was announced that Kapoor will be inducted into the Brampton Walk of Fame in Ontario, Canada.

Association with other artists
Khwaja Ahmad Abbas
Khwaja Ahmad Abbas was a screenwriter and director for a number of Raj Kapoor's best films.
Awaara (1951)
Anhonee (1952)
Shree 420 (1955)
Jagte Raho (1956)
Char Dil Char Rahen (1959)
Mera Naam Joker (1970)
Bobby (1973)
Henna (1991)

Shankar–Jaikishan
Shankar–Jaikishan were Raj Kapoor's music directors of choice. He worked with them in 20 films in all including 10 of his own films from Barsaat until Kal Aaj Aur Kal.  (Jagte Raho with Salil Chowdhury and Ab Dilli Dur Nahin being two exceptions in this period). Only after Jaikishan died, did he turn to a different music director – Laxmikant–Pyarelal for Bobby, Satyam Shivam Sundaram and Prem Rog (later on, his children used Laxmikant-Pyarelal for Prem Granth as well), Rahul Dev Burman for Dharam Karam, and Ravindra Jain for (Ram Teri Ganga Maili and Henna). Raj Kapoor acted in a movie with music by Madan Mohan only once (twice), i.e. Dhoon (1953) & Ashiana (1952), which featured duet Hum Pyaar Karenge by Hemant Kumar and Lata Mangeshkar, the only instance of Hemant Kumar giving playback to Raj Kapoor, and did only one movie with O. P. Nayyar (Do Ustad).
List of films with Shankar–Jaikishan: (18 Films)

Nargis
Raj Kapoor and Nargis worked together in 16 films including 6 of his own productions.

Mukesh and Manna Dey
Mukesh was Raj Kapoor's almost exclusive singing voice in almost all of his films. Also, when Mukesh died, Raj had said, Main ne apni aawaaz ko kho diya... (I have lost my voice...). However Manna Dey has also sung many notable and super-hit songs for Raj Kapoor, for instance in Shree 420 and Chori Chori. Examples of such Manna songs are best illustrated by the following list:

"Laga Chunri Mein Daag" (Dil Hi To Hai)
"Ae Bhai Zara Dekh Ke Chalo" (Mera Naam Joker)
"Dil Ka Haal Sune Dil Wala" (Shree 420)
"Aaja Sanam Madhur Chandni Mein Hum" (Chori Chori)
"Jahan Mein Jati Hoon Wahin Chale Aate Ho" (Chori Chori)
"Yeh Raat Bhigi Bhigi, Yeh Mast Fizayen" (Chori Chori)
"Masti Bhara Hai Samaan" (Parvarish)
"Mud Mud Ke Na Dekh" (Shree 420)
"Pyar hua Iqrar hua hai" (Shree 420)
"Chalat Musafir" (Teesri Kasam)
"Belia Belia Belia" (Parvarish)
"Lallah Allah Tera Nigehbaan" (Abdullah)
"Mama O Mama" (Parvarish)