Passage 1:
Project G.e.e.K.e.R.
Project G.e.e.K.e.R. is an animated television series that premiered on CBS on September 14, 1996. It was created by Douglas TenNapel, creator of Earthworm Jim, and Doug Langdale, the developer of Earthworm Jim the animated series, and was a production of Columbia TriStar Television under Adelaide Productions, with original music by Shawn Patterson (main title theme by Terry Scott Taylor). TenNapel and Taylor also collaborated on the video games The Neverhood, Boombots and Skullmonkeys, and in 2005, re-united for the Nickelodeon cartoon Catscratch.
The show was cancelled after only one season, as CBS cancelled all of their Saturday morning schedule in 1997 to stop their downward-spiraling ratings.The Federal Communications Commission also rejected CBS's attempt to classify the show as educational and informational under that fall's strengthened requirements for children's programming.

Synopsis
The show parodied the style of action-adventure cartoons. Set in the future, it was based around a genetic shapeshifter experiment known as Project GKR (Geno-Kinetic Research), who had been stolen by Lady MacBeth (a short-tempered cyborg with a bionic arm) before the creator could finish programming. He needed to be a deadly and powerful weapon at the hands of the evil Mister Moloch, head of Moloch Industries, but due to the lack of his final programming, "GeeKeR" is left to be a totally random, permanently salivating, four-fingered klutz. He only occasionally manages to use his powers to any full extent, a blessing and a threat to his friends and their enemies. Lady MacBeth (whom GeeKeR calls Becky) and her partner-in-crime Noah, a baseball cap-wearing intelligent Tyrannosaurus rex, must now prevent Moloch and GeeKeR's creator Dr. Maston from ever obtaining GeeKeR at all costs.

Cast
Billy West as G.e.e.K.e.R., Additional Voices
Cree Summer as Lady MacBeth, Nanny, Sonny, Additional Voices
Charles Adler as Dr. Maston, Jake Dragonn, Gene Damage, Additional Voices
Jim Cummings as Mister Moloch, Will Dragonn, Cosmotto, Additional Voices
Brad Garrett as Noah, Captain Wormhole

Additional voices
Danny Mann as Redjack
Ed Gilbert as Dinosaur Leader
Jeff Bennett as Larry the Virus
Charity James
Kath Soucie
Dee Dee Rescher as Female Junker
Joe Alaskey
Jason Marsden as Kid Dinosaur
Kevin Michael Richardson as Stonebender/"Mr. Smiley", Additional Voices
Joe Lala
Michael Bell as Toxic Moose
Lisa Kaplan

Episodes
Credits
Executive Producers: Douglas TenNapel and Douglas Langdale
Supervising Producer: Richard Raynis
Producer: Audu Paden
Associate Producers: Monique Beatty and Greg Chalekian
Production Coordinator: Luke Wasserman
Original Music: Shawn Patterson
Theme Song: Terry Scott Taylor
Color Designer: Don W. Kim
Music Editor: Bradford Cox
Dialogue Editor: Thomas Kearney
Digital Compositor (Opening Titles): Andy Jolliff
Background Designers: Vince Toyama and David James
Storyboard Revisor: Charles Garcia

Music
Terry Scott Taylor (friend of creator Doug TenNapel) was contracted to write the main title theme for the show, while Shawn Patterson was selected to be the series score composer. Two days before the show was set to air, Columbia TriStar discovered a licensing issue with Terry and Patterson was asked by the producers to compose and produce a main title theme to go on the air. Shawn completed this and Project GeeKeR aired with Shawn's original main title music. Weeks into the series, the licensing problem with Terry Scott Taylor was cleared up and the show's creator Doug TenNapel requested that Terry's original main title theme be reinserted into the series. Patterson's main title music was then removed from the remainder of the series.

See also
Earthworm Jim
The Weekenders
Dave the Barbarian
Catscratch
Doug TenNapel
Doug Langdale
Sony Pictures Entertainment
Passage 2:
David W. Zucker
David W. Zucker is a television executive and executive producer, mostly known for producing The Good Wife. He is currently the Chief Creative Officer for Scott Free Productions. He is also the executive producer of notable shows like Eric Garcia’s heist anthology series Kaleidoscope for Netflix; HBO Max’s sci-fi epic, Raised By Wolves; the Paramount+ drama, The Good Fight; the AMC and Britbox investigative revenge series The Beast Must Die; and the National Geographic series The Hot Zone. Zucker's upcoming projects include the FX adaptation of Ridley Scott’s Alien and Steven Knight’s adaptation of the Charles Dickens novel Great Expectations for FX and BBC One.

Credits
Passage 3:
Dora the Explorer
Dora the Explorer is an American media franchise centered on an eponymous animated interactive fourth wall children's television series created by Chris Gifford, Valerie Walsh Valdes and Eric Weiner, produced by Nickelodeon Animation Studio and originally ran on Nickelodeon from August 14, 2000 to June 5, 2014, with the final six unaired episodes later airing from July 7 to August 9, 2019. It has since spawned a spin-off television series (Go, Diego, Go!), a sequel television series (Dora and Friends: Into the City!) and a live-action feature film.Before rebranding to Paramount Global, the corporation previously named ViacomCBS announced a revival of the Dora the Explorer brand 3 years after its last production, which includes a preschool-aimed CGI animated TV series, and a tween-aimed live-action series, both of which are scheduled for distribution on Paramount+.

Origins
The franchise has its roots from the television show of the same name which centers around Dora Márquez, a seven-year-old Latina girl, with a love of embarking on quests related to an activity that she wants to partake of or a place that she wants to go to, accompanied by her talking purple backpack and anthropomorphic monkey companion named Boots (named for his beloved pair of red boots). Each episode is based around a series of cyclical events that occur along the way during Dora's travels, along with obstacles that she and Boots are forced to overcome or puzzles that they have to solve (with "assistance" from the viewing audience) relating to riddles, the Spanish language, or counting. Common rituals may involve Dora's encounters with Swiper, a bipedal, anthropomorphic masked thieving fox whose theft of the possessions of others must be prevented through fourth wall-breaking interaction with the viewer. To stop Swiper, Dora must say "Swiper no swiping" three times. However, on occasions where Swiper steals the belongings of other people, the viewer is presented with the challenge of helping Boots and Dora locate the stolen items. Another obstacle involves encounters with another one of the program's antagonists; the "Grumpy Old Troll" dwelling beneath a bridge that Dora and Boots must cross, who challenges them with a riddle that needs to be solved with the viewer's help before permitting them to pass. Known for the constant breaking of the fourth-wall depicted in every episode, the audience is usually presented to two primary landmarks that must be passed before Dora can reach her destination, normally being challenged with games or puzzles along the way. The episode always ends with Dora successfully reaching the locale, singing the "We Did It!" song with Boots in triumph.

Premise
The eponymous series focuses on the adventures of a Latina girl named Dora and her monkey friend Boots, with a particular emphasis on the Spanish language. The show is presented in the style of both an interactive CD-ROM game and a point-and-click adventure game, with gimmicks such as title cards appearing in windows and Dora asking the viewer to help her by showing the current items in her inventory and asking the viewer which one is best for the current scenario.

Development
Development of the show came out of Nickelodeon's desire to "come up with the next big hit" similar to its other hit preschool shows at the time; Little Bear and Blue's Clues. The creators sought to combine the format of both shows, with the narrative focus of Little Bear combined with the interactivity of Blue's Clues. The creators further developed the concept by observing  preschoolers with the creators coming to the conclusion that "they are little explorers."Dora is a Latina. According to a Nickelodeon spokesman, "she was developed to be pan-Latina to represent the diversity of Latino cultures". Initially the character was not planned to be Latina although after an executive at Nickelodeon attended a conference about the lack of Latino representation, the creators were asked if they could include such elements. At first there was hesitancy, but eventually they realized that they had "a great opportunity" and the character's design remained. Originally, Nickelodeon did not want Swiper, as researchers stated he was, "bad modeling and unsettling to kids". The creators felt strongly about the inclusion of the antagonist as an integral part of the series; he remained in the final show.On numerous occasions, television specials have been aired for the series in which the usual events of regular episodes are altered, threatened, or replaced. Usually said specials will present Dora with a bigger, more whimsical adventure than usual or with a magical task that must be fulfilled, or perhaps even offer a series of different adventures for Boots and Dora to travel through. They might be presented with an unusual, difficult task (such as assisting Swiper in his attempts to be erased from Santa Claus's Naughty List) that normally is not featured in average episodes, or challenge Dora with a goal that must be achieved (such as the emancipation of a trapped mermaid). Sometimes, the specials have involved the debut of new characters, such as the birth of Dora's superpowered twin baby siblings and the introduction of the enchanted anthropomorphic stars that accompany Dora on many of her quests.

On March 8, 2009, Mattel and Nickelodeon announced that Dora will receive a tweenage makeover, switching from a young age to a teenage attending middle school. Initially, it was announced that the new look would not be revealed until late 2009, but after a short controversy, the tween Dora was unveiled on March 16, 2009.On 13 April 2012, a CGI opening sequence was created by Chicago-based Calabash Animation for the seventh season of the series.

Dora's Explorer Girls
In 2009, Mattel and Nickelodeon introduced a preteen version of Dora, with four friends; named Naiya, Kate, Emma and Alana, who call themselves the Explorer Girls and were featured in Dora and Friends.

Episodes
NOTE: The show's run ended on June 5, 2014, with 6 episodes, however, those episodes did not air in the United States until August 9, 2019, with the premiere of Dora and the Lost City of Gold.

Voice cast
Dora Márquez (aka Dora the Explorer): Kathleen Herles (2000–2007), Caitlin Sanchez (2008–2012), Fátima Ptacek (2012–2019)
Boots: Harrison Chad (2000–2007), Regan Mizrahi (2008–2013), Koda Gursoy (2013–2019)
Backpack: Sasha Toro (2000–2007), Alexandria Suarez (2008–2013), Sofia Lopez (2013–2019)
Isa the Iguana: Ashley Fleming (2000–2007), Lenique Vincent (2008–2012), Skai Jackson (2012–2019)
Tico the Squirrel: Muhammad Cunningham (2000–2001), Jose Zelaya (2002–2007), Jean Carlos Celi (2008–2012), Oscar Hutarra (2012–2019)
Benny the Bull: Jake Burbage (2000–2007), Matt Gumley (2008–2012), Aidan Gemme (2012–2019)
Diego Márquez: Felipe and Andre Dieppa (2003–2004), Gabriel Alvarez (2003-2006), Jake T. Austin (2005–2010), Brandon Zambrano (2011–2012), Jacob Medrano (2012–2019)
Explorer Stars: Christiana Anbri, Henry Gifford, Katie Gifford, Aisha Shickler, Muhammed Cunningham, Jose Zeleya
Val the Octopus, Miscalleneous: Elaine Del Valle
Mrs. Márquez: Eileen Galindo
Big Red Chicken, Grumpy Old Troll, Pirate Pig, Miscellaneous: Chris Gifford
Various: K. J. Sanchez
Boots' Father, Miscellaneous: Adam Sietz
Señor Tucán, Miscellaneous: Leslie Valdes
Map, Swiper, The Fiesta Trio: Marc Weiner

Guest voices
John Leguizamo - Silly Mail Bird, Pirate Pig (Dora's Pirate Adventure) and Flying Monkeys
Cheech Marin - King Juan el Bobo
Ricardo Montalbán - El Encantador
Esai Morales – Mr. Márquez
Amy Principe - Little Star, various
Irwin Reese - Singing Gate
Antonia Rey - Abuela
Paul Rodriguez - León the Circus Lion

Guest stars
Chita Rivera (Dora's Fairytale Adventure, 2004; Dora Saves Fairytale Land, 2015)
Johnny Weir (Dora's Ice Skating Spectacular, 2013)
Hilary Duff (Dora's Ice Skating Spectacular, 2013)
Jewel Kilcher (Dora in Wonderland, 2014)
Mel Brooks (Dora in Wonderland, 2014)
Alan Cumming (Dora in Wonderland, 2014)
Sara Ramirez (Dora in Wonderland, 2014)
Juanes (Dora Saves Fairytale Land, 2015)

Foreign adaptations
Dora the Explorer has been produced in various other languages worldwide. It facilitates the learning of important foreign language words or phrases (mostly English), interspersed with a local language (e.g. Norwegian, Russian, Hindi or German), with occasional use of Spanish (used in the Irish, Serbian, and Turkish versions) through its simplicity and use of repetition.

Arabic – The Arabic language version is broadcast on the "Nickelodeon on MBC3" block of MBC 3, and is presented in Arabic-English.
Cantonese – The Cantonese language version (Chinese: 愛探險的朵拉; lit. 'Explore-loving Dora') is broadcast in Hong Kong and presented in Cantonese-English.
Danish – The Danish language version is called Dora – udforskeren and there are commands and expressions in English. It is broadcast on the national public children's channel, DR Ramasjang, and also on the Nick Jr. Channel through various pay TV providers.
Dutch – The Dutch language version broadcasts on Nickelodeon and Nick. Jr, It is presented in Dutch-English. The voice actors are Lottie Hellingman as Dora and Dieter Jansen as Boots.
French  – The French language version, Dora l'exploratrice, broadcasts on TF1 in France and Télé-Québec in Canada. It is presented in French-English, with Dora and Boots (called Babouche) speaking French and other protagonists speaking and answering in English.
Filipino – The Filipino language version broadcasts on ABS-CBN and has the same English title "Dora, the Explorer". The characters speak Filipino and some English, Dora teaches English in this version.
German – The German language version broadcasts on the German branch of Nick. The bilingualism is German-English.
Greek – The Greek language version is called "Ντόρα η μικρή εξερευνήτρια" (or Dora the Little Explorer). It broadcasts on Nickelodeon and Star Channel. The bilingualism is Greek-English. Dora and Boots (called Botas) speak Greek and other protagonists speak and answer in English.
Hebrew – The Hebrew language version broadcasts on HOP channel. The bilingualism is Hebrew-English. The series is called מגלים עם דורה (or Megalim Im Dora—English: Discovering with Dora).
Hindi – In the Hindi language version, Dora and the other characters speak Hindi. It broadcasts on Nickelodeon and Nick Jr. Dora teaches the viewers English words and numbers.
Hungarian – In the Hungarian language version, Dora and the other characters speak Hungarian with some English words or phrases. It broadcasts on Nickelodeon. The series is called Dóra a felfedező.
Indonesian – The Indonesian language version broadcasts on Global TV. The bilingualism is Indonesian-English.
Irish – The Irish language version broadcasts on the Irish station TG4. The bilingualism is Irish-Spanish with Dora and Boots speaking in Irish and some other characters speaking Spanish as in the original American version.
Italian – The Italian language version broadcasts on Cartoonito and on Nickelodeon. The bilingualism is Italian-English. The series is called Dora l'esploratrice ("Dora the Explorer"). Most characters speak Italian, but some characters and especially Dora's parents and backpack speak English along with Italian.
Japanese – The Japanese language version broadcasts on Nickelodeon. The bilingualism is Japanese-English, with Dora and Boots speaking Japanese and other protagonists speaking and answering in English. The version is called ドーラといっしょに大冒険 (Dōra to issho ni dai bōken/Adventures with Dora).
Kannada – The Kannada language version broadcasts on Chintu TV and is a very popular program on that network. Hindi is the second language in this version.
Korean – The Korean language version broadcasts on Nick Jr. in Korea. The title is Hi Dora and is introduced by a real person whose name is Dami – she introduces key English vocabulary for each episode. The episode is primarily in Korean with some English.
Macedonian – The Macedonian language version broadcasts on MRT 1 in Macedonia. The title is "Дора истражува" (or Dora the Explorer). The bilingualism is Macedonian-English.
Malay – The Malay language version broadcasts on TV9. The bilingualism is Malay-English. Dora speaks primarily in Malay, and the secondary language is English. The original English-Spanish version, however, is also available on Nickelodeon via the Nick Jr. programming slot to subscribers of the ASTRO satellite TV service.
Malayalam – The Malayalam language version is called Dorayude Prayanam ("Dora's Journey") and broadcasts on Kochu TV, Sun TV Network.
Mandarin – In the Mandarin Chinese language version Dora the characters speak mainly Mandarin with limited English. It broadcasts on Yo-yo TV in Taiwan (Channel 25).
Maori – The Māori language version is called "Dora Mātātoa".
Norwegian – In the Norwegian language version, the bilingualism is Norwegian-English.
Polish – The Polish language version broadcasts on Nickelodeon in Poland. The bilingualism is Polish-English. The series is called Dora poznaje świat ("Dora explores the world").
Portuguese – In the Portuguese language versions, Dora a Exploradora broadcasts on RTP2 and Nickelodeon. On Nickelodeon Brazil and TV Cultura, the show is called Dora a Aventureira, and Dora and Boots (called Boots in the Portuguese version and Botas in the Brazilian version) speak Portuguese, while the other protagonists speak and answer in English. Some Portuguese episodes are available on DVD.
Russian – The Russian language version broadcasts on TNT and Nickelodeon. The bilingualism is Russian-English. The series is called Dasha-sledopyt ("Dasha the Pathfinder"). Dasha is the children's name of Daria (Darya).
Serbian – The Serbian language version broadcasts on B92. The bilingualism is Serbian-Spanish. The series is called Dora istražuje (Dora is exploring).
Spanish – There are different Spanish versions for Mexico, Latin America and Spain. Dora la Exploradora broadcasts on Nickelodeon in Latin America. For Hispanic and Latino Americans, it aired on Telemundo until September 2006 and on Univisión since April 2008. Dora and Boots (called Botas) speak Spanish and the other protagonists speak and answer in English. Some Spanish episodes are available to US viewers on VHS, and some DVDs have a Spanish track (including Dora's Egg Hunt). This version is entirely the reverse of the original English version; Tico and  Señor Tucan (called Mr. Toucan) only speak English. Additionally, Univision has added on-screen captions of the Spanish words spoken in English. In Spain, Dora la exploradora is aired on TVE 1, Clan TVE and the Spanish and Portuguese Nickelodeon feed. It is another reverse of the original English version (the characters speak mainly Spanish but there are commands and expressions in English).
Swedish – In the Swedish language version Dora- utforskaren the characters speak mainly Swedish but there are commands and expressions in English. It broadcasts on Nickelodeon and TV4.
Tamil – In the Tamil language version Doravin Payanangal (டோராவின் பயணங்கள்), the characters all speak Tamil, with some English interspersed. It broadcasts on a local kids programming channel Chutti TV.
Thai – In the Thai language version ดอร่าดิเอกซ์พลอเรอร์ or ดอร่าสาวน้อยนักผจญภัย, the characters speak Thai; however, Tico speaks English. It broadcasts on Gang Cartoon Channel, Nick Jr., Thai PBS.
Turkish – In the Turkish language version Dora the characters speak mainly Turkish, Spanish, and English but there are commands and expressions in Turkish. It broadcasts on Nickelodeon and CNBC-e.As shown in the list above, Spanish is the second language taught in the original English language version of the show (also broadcast for Malay speakers), in the Irish, Serbian, and the trilingual Turkish versions, but for other versions of the show, the language being taught is English.

Stage adaptations
Two stage versions of the series toured North America, the first being "City of Lost Toys", and the second being "Dora's Pirate Adventure". Produced by Nickelodeon and LiveNation, these productions featured live actors portraying the roles of Dora and her friends, including Boots, Diego, Isa, and the Fiesta Trio. Many of the characters wore elaborate foam costumes designed to resemble the Dora characters. Each production featured a structure similar to an episode of the television series. City of Lost Toys featured Christina Bianco as Dora while Dora's Pirate Adventure featured Danay Ferrer of the band Innosense in the role of Dora and Frankie Grande as Boots. Both productions featured a version of the popular Gloria Estefan song "Get On Your Feet" as the final number of the show. Both productions were conceived by Chris Gifford, creator of the television show, and directed by Gip Hoppe.
There have been three Dora touring companies. The "City of Lost Toys" company and the "Pirate Adventure" company featured actors and crew that were members of Actor's Equity and IATSE, the respective unions for professional actors and stagehands in the United States. The third company performs a reduced version of "Pirate Adventure" and does not employ union personnel. This production is currently touring North America, and scheduled to travel to the United Kingdom and France.

Merchandise
Many action figures and playsets are available in many markets, along with cosmetics, hygiene products, ride-ons, books, board games, plush dolls, apparel, handbags, play tents, play kitchens, and more. Licensees include Mattel-owned Fisher-Price in the United States and Holland Publishing in the United Kingdom.

Toys
In 2004, Lego released four sets based on the characters of the TV series. These include 7330 Dora's Treasure Island, 7331 Diego's Rescue Truck, 7332 Dora and Boots at Play Park, and 7333 Dora and Diego's Animal Adventure.
In 2007, lead paint used by a contract toy manufacturer in China prompted Mattel to issue recalls for nearly a million toys, many of which featured Sesame Street and Nickelodeon characters - including Dora the Explorer. In response, Nickelodeon stated that they would introduce "third-party monitoring" of all manufacturers of products under its brands.

Books
Dora the Explorer series
Ready To Read series – Level 1
A Lift-the-Flap Story
Good Night, Dora!: A Lift-the-Flap Story (ISBN 978-0689847745)
Where Is Boots?: A Lift-the-Flap Story (ISBN 978-0689847752)
Let's Play Sports!: A Lift-the-Flap Story (ISBN 978-1416933502)
All Dressed Up!: A Lift-the-Flap Book (ISBN 978-0689877186)

Treasury books and collection books
Dora's Ready-to-Read Adventures (ISBN 978-0689878152)Contains: Dora's picnic, Follow those feet, Dora in the deep sea, I love my Papi!, Say "Cheese"

Dora's Storytime Collection (ISBN 978-0689866234)Contains: Dora's Backpack, Little Star, Happy Birthday, Mami!, Meet Diego!, Dora Saves the Prince, Dora's Treasure Hunt, Good Night, Dora!

Dora's Big Book of Stories (ISBN 978-1416907084)Contains: Dora's Book of Manners, Dora Goes to School, Dora's Fairy-Tale Adventure, Dora's Chilly Day, Show Me Your Smile!, Dora's Pirate Adventure, Big Sister Dora!

Sticker books
Dora's Magic Watering Can (ISBN 978-1416947721)

Video games
Video games based on the show were released. In Canada, Cheerios offered free Dora the Explorer the Game CD-ROMs in specially marked packages; however, packages sold in Quebec had only the French version. Dora the Explorer: Barnyard Buddies is the first video game based on the show for the home consoles as it was released for the PlayStation in the U.S. in 2003. It was not released in Europe until 2005 when it was one of the last games released on that platform in that territory as the PlayStation declined in production as well as all production on other PS1 games the following year.

Soundtrack
Audiovisual viewing
Seasons of Dora the Explorer are available on a variety of streaming or direct-purchase video services.

Home videos/Home media
Streaming
Direct purchase
Sequel
In 2013, Nickelodeon announced a development of a sequel to Dora the Explorer titled Dora and Friends: Into the City! and would star Dora as a 10-year-old who goes on city adventures with the Explorer Girls and is accompanied by a male friend named Pablo. The series ran for two seasons and 40 episodes on Nickelodeon from August 8, 2014, to February 5, 2017.

Live-action film adaptation
On October 23, 2017, Paramount Pictures and Nickelodeon Movies announced a development of live-action film adaptation of the franchise at sister studio Paramount Players titled Dora and the Lost City of Gold for a scheduled summer 2019 release. It was filmed in Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia at Village Roadshow Studios and directed by James Bobin from a screenplay by Nicholas Stoller and Kristin Burr as producer. The film was expected to follow the title character as a teenager unlike the TV series with the inclusion of her cousin Diego. On May 2, 2018, Isabela Moner was announced to portray the titular character. The film was released in theaters/cinemas in the U.S. and Canada on August 9, 2019.

Live-action series and animated reboots
On February 24, 2021, Paramount+ announced the development of a live-action series based on the franchise. The following February, while announcing the development of a computer-animated reboot series, Paramount+ further clarified that the live-action series would be aimed at tweens and take inspiration from the live-action film, Dora and the Lost City of Gold.

See also
Go, Diego, Go!
Dora and Friends: Into the City!
Dora and the Lost City of Gold
Passage 4:
Duane Capizzi
Duane Capizzi is an American writer and television producer.  He is known for his extensive work in animated series for television, including the Emmy Award-winning  Transformers: Prime for which he was Co-Executive Producer and Head Writer, and co-developed its follow-up Transformers: Robots in Disguise. For Warner Bros. Animation, he was writer/producer of the animated series The Batman as well as its spin-off feature, The Batman vs. Dracula.  He wrote the first DC Universe animated feature, Superman: Doomsday (based on The Death of Superman saga, and directed by Bruce Timm). Other animated series producing/writing credits include Jackie Chan Adventures, Big Guy and Rusty the Boy Robot, Men in Black: The Series, and series development on the CG animated Roughnecks: The Starship Troopers Chronicles for Sony Pictures Television. He wrote and story edited for two animated spin-offs of Jim Carrey films: Ace Ventura: Pet Detective and The Mask. He also wrote and story edited for several Disney Afternoon TV series including Darkwing Duck, Aladdin, TaleSpin, and Bonkers.  He began his career in animation writing scripts for Robotech II: The Sentinels for Harmony Gold. The series was never produced, but led to writing and story editing on ALF: The Animated Series.
From 2019-2021, Capizzi served as showrunner for the animated TV series adaptation of Carmen Sandiego.

Screenwriting credits
series head writer denoted in bold

Television
ALF: The Animated Series (1987-1989)
COPS (1988)
The Real Ghostbusters (1988)
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1989)
Alvin and the Chipmunks (1989)
Disney's Adventures of the Gummi Bears (1990-1991)
Talespin (1992)
Darkwing Duck (1992)
Bonkers (1993)
Aladdin (1994)
The Savage Dragon (1995)
Ace Ventura: Pet Detective (1995-1997)
The Mask: Animated Series (1995-1997)
Extreme Ghostbusters (1997)
Men in Black: The Series (1997-1999)
Roughnecks: The Starship Troopers Chronicles (1999-2000)
Big Guy and Rusty the Boy Robot (1999-2001)
Jackie Chan Adventures (2000-2003)
The Batman (2004-2006)
Transformers: Prime (2010-2013)
Hardboiled Eggheads (2014)
Transformers: Robots In Disguise (2015)
Be Cool, Scooby-Doo! (2015, 2017)
Skylanders Academy (2016)
Justice League Action (2017)
Carmen Sandiego (2019-2021)

Films
The Return of Jafar (1994)
The Batman vs. Dracula (2005)
Superman: Brainiac Attacks (2006)
Superman: Doomsday (2007)
Transformers Prime Beast Hunters: Predacons Rising (2013)
Lego Scooby-Doo! Haunted Hollywood (2016)
Carmen Sandiego: To Steal or Not to Steal (2020)

Producer
Television
Bonkers (1993)
The Savage Dragon (1995)
The Mask: Animated Series (1995-1997)
Extreme Ghostbusters (1997)
Men in Black: The Series (1998-2001)
Big Guy and Rusty the Boy Robot (1999-2001)
Jackie Chan Adventures (2000-2002)
The Batman (2004-2008)
Transformers: Prime (2010-2013)
Hardboiled Eggheads (2014)
Carmen Sandiego (2019-2021)

Features
The Batman vs. Dracula (2005)
Superman: Brainiac Attacks (2006)
Passage 5:
Hawaii Five-0 (2010 TV series)
Hawaii Five-0 is an American action police procedural television series that centers around a special police major crimes task force operating at the behest of the governor of Hawaii. It is a reboot of the 1968–1980 series Hawaii Five-O (the original series had the letter "O" instead of the number "0" in its title), which also aired on CBS. The series was produced by K/O Paper Products and 101st Street Television, initially in association with 20th Century Fox Television starting in season three. The show received praise for its modern take on the original series.
The series premiered on September 20, 2010, on CBS and aired on Mondays for its first three seasons. Beginning with season four, the program was moved to Fridays. Hawaii Five-0 ran for seven additional seasons and concluded with its 240th and final episode on April 3, 2020.Peter M. Lenkov, one of the show's developers, created two additional police shows that were reboots of previous TV series: MacGyver and Magnum P.I. All three take place in the same fictional universe, and Hawaii Five-0 had crossover episodes with both of the others. The three shows have been collectively referred to as the "Lenkov-verse". The series also exists in the same fictional universe as the NCIS franchise by way of a crossover event with NCIS: Los Angeles.

Premise
The series covers the actions of the Hawaii Five-0 Task Force, a small, specialized Hawaii Department of Public Safety special state police major crimes task force in Hawaii, headed by United States Navy SEAL Lieutenant Commander Steve McGarrett, United States Navy Reserve. The task force answers only to the Governor of Hawaii and is given full immunity and means. The task force has no restrictions and is always backed by the Governor. The team is able to investigate crimes ranging from terrorism to kidnapping as well as murder and robberies.
McGarrett recruits Honolulu Police Department Detective-Sergeant Danny "Danno" Williams as his partner and unofficial second in command of the team. He fills out the team by recruiting ex-HPD Detective-Lieutenant Chin Ho Kelly, his father's protégé, and Chin's cousin, Officer Kono Kalakaua, a rookie HPD officer. Department of Homeland Security Special Agent Lori Weston is also assigned to the team later on, although she is later forced to return to the DHS by the Governor. They are assisted by Dr. Max Bergman, a medical examiner for the City and County of Honolulu. Steve later adds Captain Lou Grover, a HPD SWAT commander and a transfer from the Chicago Police Department, Special Consultant Jerry Ortega, Chin's high school classmate, a conspiracy theorist and a consultant for the task force, and for a brief time, Lieutenant Catherine Rollins, Steve's girlfriend and ex-US Navy Office of Naval Intelligence. Following Max, Chin, and Kono's departures, Max is replaced by medical examiner Dr. Noelani Cunha, and McGarrett fills in Chin and Kono's spots by hiring high-achieving HPD academy washout Tani Rey and ex-US Navy SEAL Special Warfare Operator Second Class-turned-Police Candidate Junior Reigns. Later on, Kono's husband Adam Noshimuri joins the task force following the couple's divorce, and shortly after Jerry's departure, United States Army CID Staff Sergeant Quinn Liu is recruited in his place. The team is also assisted by confidential informant Kamekona Tupuola, and HPD liaison Sergeant Duke Lukela.

Cast and characters
Main
Alex O'Loughlin as Lieutenant Commander Steven J. "Steve" McGarrett, USNR. A decorated former Navy SEAL, McGarrett is head of the Five-0 Task Force and son of retired HPD Sergeant John McGarrett. John's murder and storyline forms the premise of Steve's return to Hawaii and the formation of the Task Force.
Scott Caan as Detective Sergeant Danny "Danno" Williams. He is a divorced single father who transferred from Newark PD in New Jersey to be with his daughter and is the de facto second-in-command of Five-0.
Daniel Dae Kim as Detective Lieutenant Chin Ho Kelly, (seasons 1–7). A veteran HPD detective, he was John McGarrett's former rookie and provides technical expertise and local know-how. During the season 7 finale, Chin is offered the lead position of the Five-0 Task Force established in San Francisco, which he later accepts. This was written into the show after Kim departed the series in late June 2017 prior to the start of production of the eighth season due to a salary dispute with CBS. Kim had been seeking pay equality with fellow cast members Alex O'Loughlin and Scott Caan, but CBS's final offer to Kim was 10–15% lower than what O'Loughlin and Caan make in salary.
Grace Park as Officer Kono Kalakaua, (seasons 1–7). A former surfer, she was personally recruited by McGarrett while still in her final days at the HPD Academy. She is the cousin of Lieutenant Kelly, and later becomes the wife of Adam Noshimuri. In the conclusion of the season 7 finale, Kono is seen aboard a flight to Carson City, Nevada, where it is later revealed she has since joined a task force aimed at combating sex trafficking. This was written into the show following Park's departure from the series in late June 2017 prior to the start of production of the eighth season due to a salary dispute with CBS. Park had been seeking pay equality with stars Alex O'Loughlin and Scott Caan, but CBS's final offer to Park was 10–15% lower than what O'Loughlin and Caan make in salary.
Taryn Manning as Mary Ann McGarrett, (season 1; guest seasons 2–4, 6 & 9) Steve's younger sister who lives in Los Angeles and occasionally visits Hawaii. At the beginning of the series she and Steve are largely estranged from each other, but as time goes on gradually begin to make amends. Mary works various odd jobs including flight attendant and caregiver before adopting a baby girl whom she names Joan (later nicknamed 'Joanie') after their father.
Masi Oka as Dr. Max Bergman (seasons 2–7; recurring season 1; guest season 10), the eccentric and well-respected County of Honolulu medical examiner. He departs the series midway through season 7 upon joining Doctors without Borders in Africa.
Lauren German as Special Agent Lori Weston (season 2; guest season 2). A senior DHS agent assigned to Five-0 to provide oversight.
Michelle Borth as Lieutenant Catherine Rollins, USNR (seasons 3–4; recurring seasons 1 & 6; guest seasons 2, 5 & 7–10). A former Navy Intelligence officer and McGarrett's girlfriend.
Chi McBride as Captain Lou Grover, (seasons 4–10; guest season 4). A transfer from Chicago PD and has two children with his wife Renée.
Jorge Garcia as Special Consultant Jerry Ortega (seasons 5–10; recurring season 4), a conspiracy theorist who assisted Five-0 during several investigations and is eventually hired as a "consultant".
Meaghan Rath as Officer Tani Rey (seasons 8–10), whom McGarrett recruits from her job as a hotel pool lifeguard after being kicked out of the police academy, despite being a first-rate candidate. She initially declines to join but later joins as a team member.
Taylor Wily as Kamekona Tupuola (seasons 8–10; recurring seasons 1–7), a rehabilitated ex-convict, turned entrepreneur and owner of the Waiola Shave Ice, Kamekona's Shrimp Truck, and Kamekona's Helicopter Tours. He is a CI for the Five-0 Task Force and their friend.
Dennis Chun as Sergeant Duke Lukela (seasons 8–10; recurring seasons 1–7), HPD officer who often acts as a liaison to Five-0. He was one of the few HPD cops who was not antagonistic towards Danny or the other Five-0 members from the beginning, as he was colleagues with Steve's father and also personally knew Chin and Kono's family. In "Hookman", he was shot by Curt Stoner (Peter Weller), but survived and recovered. Dennis Chun is the son of Kam Fong Chun, who played Chin Ho Kelly in the original series.
Kimee Balmilero as Dr. Noelani Cunha (seasons 8–10; recurring season 7), a medical examiner who took over to assist the team after Max's departure. She is often seen joining in with the team during holidays and celebrations.
Beulah Koale as Officer Junior Reigns (seasons 8–10), a former Navy SEAL ranked Special Warfare Operator Second Class who asks McGarrett, a fellow SEAL, for a job. Initially turned down he returns to McGarrett a second time. McGarrett later introduces him to Duke Lukela and informs him that before becoming a member of Five-0 he will need to join and finish the police academy.
Ian Anthony Dale as Adam Noshimuri (seasons 8–10; recurring seasons 2–7), a member of the Five-0 Task Force; formerly the Head of Five-0 Task Force Special Division of Organized Crime; Kono's ex-husband, and a confidential informant to Five-0.
Katrina Law as Sergeant Quinn Liu (season 10), a former staff sergeant with Army CID demoted for insubordination.

Recurring
Crossover characters
Daniela Ruah as Kensi Blye (season 2)
LL Cool J as Sam Hanna (season 2)
Chris O'Donnell as G. Callen (season 2)
Craig Robert Young as Dracul Comescu (season 2)
Jay Hernandez as Thomas Magnum (season 10)
Perdita Weeks as Juliet Higgins (season 10)
Zachary Knighton as Orville "Rick" Wright (season 10)
Stephen Hill as Theodore "TC" Calvin (season 10)

Notable guest stars
Among notable guests who made an appearance on show are comedian Dane Cook, actors Monica Barbaro, Norman Reedus, Balthazar Getty, Josh Dallas, Greg Germann, James Remar, Tom Berenger, James Caan, Patty Duke, Lewis Tan, Peter Fonda, Michael Madsen, Daryl Hannah, Bronson Pinchot, Craig T. Nelson, Robert Loggia, Kevin Sorbo, Adam Beach, Corbin Bernsen, Rebecca De Mornay, Jeff Fahey, Bruce Davison, Tim Daly, Gail O'Grady, Nathan Kress, Sung Kang, Pruitt Taylor Vince, Tony Curran, Bai Ling, Rick Springfield, Tom Arnold, Jon Lovitz, George Takei, Treat Williams, Peter Weller, Terrence Howard, Joan Collins, Cloris Leachman, Lance Gross, Joey Lawrence and Chuck Norris, athletes  Michelle Wie, Clarissa Chun, Martellus Bennett, Eric Dickerson, Jerry Rice, Michael Bennett and Metta World Peace, models Jasmine Tookes, Jacquelyn Jablonski, Behati Prinsloo and Kendall Jenner, and musicians Jimmy Buffett, Sean "Diddy" Combs, Nas, Nick Jonas, Xzibit, JoJo (singer) and Patrick Monahan.

Episodes
Crossovers
Note: The table below only accounts for full crossover events, single guest appearances are not included.

Production
History
The idea to bring Hawaii Five-O back to television had been under consideration well before the 2010 version was announced. The first attempt was a one-hour pilot for a new series that was made in 1996 but never aired, although a few clips were found years later and are available online. Produced and written by Stephen J. Cannell, it was intended to star Gary Busey and Russell Wong as the new Five-0 team. Original cast member James MacArthur briefly returned as Dan Williams, this time as governor of Hawaii, with cameos made by other former Five-O regulars. Another attempt was made to turn the project into a film by Warner Bros. but that also was scrapped.On August 12, 2008, CBS announced that it would bring Hawaii Five-O back to the network schedule for the 2009–10 television season. The new version would be an updated present-day sequel, this time centering on Steve McGarrett, who succeeds his late father Steve (Jack Lord's character in the original series) as the head of the unit. Edward Allen Bernero, executive producer and showrunner of Criminal Minds, was to helm the new take, which he described as "Hawaii Five-O, version 2.0". It was also to incorporate most of the iconic elements from the original, including the "Book 'em, Danno" catchphrase, into the remake. Bernero, who was a fan of the original, and had a ring tone of the series' theme song on his cell phone, had always wanted to bring the series back to TV.In October 2009, it was announced that Alex Kurtzman and Roberto Orci had signed on to script a pilot episode, and that Peter M. Lenkov would serve as the series showrunner. Kurtzman and Orci decided to reboot the original concept similar to their work on the 2009 Star Trek film, rather than a sequel to the original series. Production on the pilot was shot in and around Honolulu in March 2010.On May 17, 2010, the Hawaii Five-O remake was picked up by CBS, which scheduled it for Monday nights in the 10–11 p.m. time slot. The news was good for the state of Hawaii, which hoped that the remake would pump new life into the economy. Production of the remainder of the first season started in June 2010. On June 24, 2010, the producers announced that it would use the warehouse at the former Honolulu Advertiser building as the official soundstage studio for the series starting in July 2010. Exteriors representing Five-0 headquarters in the series are located at the Ali'iolani Hale in Honolulu, directly across the street from Iolani Palace, which represented Five-O headquarters in the original series.On October 21, 2010, CBS announced that the first season had been given a full season order of 24 episodes. Subsequent seasons have consisted of between 23 and 25 episodes.
This revival series uses a zero as the last character in its title instead of the letter "O" that is used in the title of the original series. According to Los Angeles Times, a CBS insider said that the disambiguation was necessary because of search engine results. When Variety conducted its own search engine test on Google, it found that "Hawaii Five-0" (with the zero) had 263,000 results while "Hawaii Five-O" (with the letter O) had over 1.7 million.Online voting by viewers determined the ending of the January 14, 2013 episode "Kapu" ("Forbidden"), with two zones, Eastern and Central Time Zones, and Mountain and Pacific Time Zones, each getting their own result. Each alternative ending could be seen online after the episode aired.On February 28, 2020, it was announced that the series would end after 10 seasons and 240 episodes with a two-episode series finale on April 3, 2020. This was confirmed by CBS Entertainment president Kelly Kahl and show's showrunner and co-creator Peter Lenkov.

Casting
In February 2010, it was announced that Daniel Dae Kim had been cast to play Chin Ho Kelly, an ex-cop trained by Steve McGarrett's father. He was the first actor cast for the remake. Several days later, Alex O'Loughlin was cast as Steve McGarrett, the son of ex-cop John McGarrett (portrayed by William Sadler). The producers pay homage to the original series throughout the first year by making one of Steve's hobbies restoring his father's 1974 Mercury Marquis, which is in fact the actual car driven by Jack Lord in the latter half of the original series' run. Actress Grace Park was later cast as rookie detective Kona "Kono" Kalakaua. Although in the original series, the character of Kono was male, the reboot series swapped the cop's gender in order to steer clear of a task force devoid of women. Scott Caan was cast as Danny "Danno" Williams. In the recurring cast are Jean Smart as Governor Pat Jameson and Masi Oka as the medical examiner Max Bergman. Oka was upgraded to series regular for the second season.Of note, several recurring roles have been filled by surviving members of the original cast. Al Harrington, who played Det. Ben Kokua in the original series, now plays a friend of McGarrett's, Mamo Kahike. Dennis Chun, who had various guest roles in the original series and is the son of Kam Fong Chun (the actor that portrayed the original Chin Ho), has a recurring role as HPD Sgt. Duke Lukela in the remake. James MacArthur, the last surviving main cast member from the original series, agreed to guest-star in a first-season episode; however, he died on October 28, 2010, before filming his appearance.Larisa Oleynik was cast as Jessica Kaye (changed to Jenna Kaye in the episode broadcast), scheduled to join the Five-0 task force in the show's 19th episode. Oleynik appeared on a recurring basis for the remainder of the 2010–11 season, with an option to become a regular in season 2; however, her character was killed off in season 2, episode 10. It was also announced that Terry O'Quinn would be joining the cast of the show in season two, along with Lauren German, who would play Lori Weston, a former Homeland Security (and FBI agent) official assigned by the new governor to keep an eye on the team.Since the show began in 2010 Michelle Borth had a recurring role where she appeared as on and off Steve McGarrett's girlfriend, Lt. Catherine Rollins, a Navy Lieutenant. On March 26, 2012, CBS announced that Borth would become a cast regular on Hawaii Five-0 for season 3. On March 27, 2014, it was announced that she would not be returning for the fifth season, with the reason for her departure left unknown. On April 24, 2015, it was announced that Borth would return as a guest star for the shows fifth-season finale. In July 2015 it was announced that Borth would have a recurring role in the first three episodes of the shows 6th season. On September 8, 2016, it was announced that Borth would be returning as a guest for the shows 150th episode. Christine Lahti was also cast in a recurring role as Doris McGarrett, the thought-to-be-deceased mother of Steve McGarrett.On July 10, 2013, ahead of the show's fourth season it was announced that Chi McBride would have a guest spot in the first episode of the season. On November 21, 2013, it was announced that McBride would become a series regular beginning with the seasons 10th episode. After appearing as a guest star in several season four episodes, Jorge Garcia who plays the character of Jerry Ortega (a conspiracy theorist and high school classmate of Chin's) was promoted to series regular commencing season five. This is the second time Kim and Garcia serve as regulars together with Lost being the first.Beginning with the second episode of the 2016–17 season, Claire Forlani had a recurring role as Alicia Brown, a retired criminal profiler who helped the team find a serial killer.On November 17, 2016, it was announced that Oka who portrays Bergman would be departing the series after the thirteenth episode of the seventh season.On June 30, 2017, ahead of the series's eighth season, it was announced that series regulars Kim and Park would be departing the series due to a salary dispute with CBS. Kim and Park had been seeking pay equality with co-stars O'Loughlin and Caan, but did not reach satisfactory deals with CBS Television Studios. CBS's final offer to Kim and Park was 10–15% lower than what O'Loughlin and Caan make in salary. An update of their characters would be given in the first episode of the new season.Following Kim's and Park's departures it was announced that longtime recurring cast member Ian Anthony Dale who portrays Kono Kalakaua's husband Adam Noshimuri had been upped to series regular for the eighth season. It was also announced that Meaghan Rath and Beulah Koale would join the series as new characters and new members of Five-0.On July 21, 2017, it was announced that recurring cast members Taylor Wily, Kimee Balmilero, and Dennis Chun would also be upped to series regulars for the eighth season.On March 19, 2018, it was announced that Borth would once again return to the series in a guest role for the twentieth episode of the series' eighth season.

Music
Hawaii Five-0 uses the original show's theme song composed by Morton Stevens. Critics received an early copy of the pilot with a synthesizer and guitar-based version of the theme. After negative reaction to the reworked song spread quickly online, Kurtzman said he and others realized that changing the music was a mistake, and arranged for studio musicians, including three who had worked on the original from 1968, to rerecord the theme "exactly as it was", except shortened to 30 seconds from its original length of about 60 seconds. Original instrumental music is composed by Brian Tyler and Keith Power.

Soundtrack
Hawaii Five-0: Original Songs from the Television Series is a soundtrack album featuring music used in the CBS television series Hawaii Five-0. The first volume in the series received attention for how show producers integrated these new and previously unreleased tracks from major-name artists into the second-season episodes. This method contrasted with the norm for TV soundtracks, which tend to be compilations of previously released music that is already available individually or on other albums. Hawaii Five-0: Original Songs from the Television Series was released on October 4, 2011.

McGarrett's car
The car driven by the original Steve McGarrett in Hawaii Five-O is a 1974 Mercury Marquis. The car has belonged to stuntman John Nordlum since the original series ended. Nordlum has let the car be used in the new series, where it is said to have belonged to Steve McGarrett's father John. The license plate is still F6-3958.

Broadcast and release
The series premiered in the United States on CBS on September 20, 2010, exactly 42 years after the premiere of the original series. Canada's Global TV and NTV premiered the show at the same time as the United States premiere. Hawaii Five-0 has been syndicated for broadcast in several countries worldwide, including Australia, the United Kingdom,  New Zealand and South Africa.

Syndication
Originally, TNT acquired the off-network rights to air the series and began airing episodes on the cable channel in August 2014.Ion Television has since acquired the off-network rights to the series; episodes began airing in January 2021.

Streaming
All episodes are available to stream with Paramount+ (formerly CBS All Access).

Home media
Reception and impact
Critical reception
The show has received generally positive reviews from critics. Metacritic gave season one of the show a 66 out of 100 aggregate score based on reviews from 29 critics. Rotten Tomatoes gave season one a score of 74% based on 23 reviews. The site's consensus calls it: "A brisk, slick reboot of an old favorite, Hawaii Five-0's picturesque locales and attractive cast make for pleasurable viewing."On May 19, 2010, The Honolulu Advertiser offered an opinion about the new version: "A smart script, slick production values and maybe a splash of nostalgia got the remake of Hawaii Five-O placed on the CBS prime-time lineup this fall," but went on to add, "it takes more than a brand name to capture viewers' attention." The piece also pointed out that times have changed since the original left the air, citing other shows that were set in Hawaii which have come and gone. It expressed a hope that the producers will succeed in bringing a new life to the title with this remake. Hawaii Five-0 was also in the Guinness World Records 2012 for Highest-Rated New Show in the U.S. with a record 19.34 million viewers for its January 23, 2011 episode (Kai e'e).

Ratings
Awards and nominations
Series star Scott Caan was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor – Series, Miniseries or Television Film for his role as Danny on Hawaii Five-0. Hawaii Five-0 also won the "Favorite New TV Drama" at the 37th People's Choice Awards on January 5, 2011.

Effect on Hawaii's economy
The popularity of Hawaii Five-0 resulted in a positive effect on several local businesses that saw an increase in sales after they were featured in particular episodes. Visitors to the USS Missouri Memorial Association increased 25 percent in 2010, a record year. Waiola Shave Ice, the business run by Kamekona on the show, saw a 20 percent increase in shave ice sales, along with a 30 percent rise in overall sales. Kona Brewing Company also saw a 60 percent increase in sales after their beers were featured as McGarrett's favored alcoholic beverage in several episodes. The tourist economy was also impacted, as many Mainlander fans were subsequently inspired to visit the islands after viewing the series.
Passage 6:
Scott McCord
Scott McCord (born April 19, 1971) is a Canadian actor. He is known for his versatility and character work in film, television, animation and on stage. He is a member of The Actors Studio. On television he has appeared in series regular, recurring and guest starring roles. He plays the mysterious Victor in the MGM+ original science fiction horror series From from the executive producers of Lost. Other television  appearances include The Sinner, FBI, Jupiter's Legacy, and Lost Girl.   He played researcher James Joy on the Canadian investigative journalism drama series The Eleventh Hour from 2002 to 2005.  He has appeared in standout character roles in the studio films 16 Blocks, Shoot 'Em Up, and supporting roles in independent films East of Middle West, Blood Honey and the animated features The Nut Job and Charlotte. He has worked in theatre most of his career in New York and Toronto, garnering a Dora Mavor Moore Award Best Actor nomination in 2002 for The Qualities of Zero.
He is known for his voiceover work in popular animated series. He plays Dan Kuso in Bakugan Battle Brawlers, Tetsuya Watarigani in Beyblade: Metal Fusion, Owen, Trent, Jacques and Brody in Fresh TV's Total Drama franchise, Skull Boy in Ruby Gloom, McGee in Camp Lakebottom, and Jake in the animated Nickelodeon/TVOKids television series, PAW Patrol. In 2016, he won the Canada Screens Award for Best Performance in an Animated Series.
As a musician, he has released two albums, the solo effort Blues For Sunshine (2009) and Scott McCord and the Bonafide Truth (2012). Scott McCord and the Bonafide Truth was nominated for Best Artist of the Year at the Canadian 2010 Maple Blues Awards.

Filmography
Television
Film
Video games
Passage 7:
Kenn Scott
Kenn Scott is a Toronto-based screenwriter noted for his work in children's programming and animation.  Included amongst the many shows he has written for are Ned's Newt, Iggy Arbuckle, Captain Flamingo, Rescue Heroes, Seven Little Monsters, Pelswick, Quads!, Delilah and Julius, Dino Dan and Doki. His column "A Writer's Life" appears regularly in the magazine Canadian Screenwriter.  He is also the co-author of the university textbook On Our Wavelength: Broadcasting History From A Canadian Perspective, and the video game Uh-Oh Flamingo!Scott won a special animation award from the Writers Guild of Canada for his work on Ned's Newt, as well as a 2008 Canadian Screenwriting Award in the Children & Preschool category for an episode of Iggy Arbuckle.In addition to his continuing work as a screenwriter, Scott has been teaching screenwriting and media history at Ryerson University (now Toronto Metropolitan University) in Toronto since 1997. As of 2021, he is also a professor in the Children's Media program at Toronto's Centennial College.
Passage 8:
Henry Gilroy
Henry Alan Gilroy (born November 1976) is an American film and television screenwriter and producer. He is best known for co-writing the animated series Star Wars: The Clone Wars.

Early life
From an early age, Gilroy loved comic books and animation which inspired him to study film at several colleges in the greater Los Angeles area.

Career
His first job at a Hollywood studio was working as an editor for Warner Bros.' animation department working Steven Spielberg's Tiny Toon Adventures. It was at Warner Bros. that Gilroy sold his first script to the producers of the Emmy winning Batman: The Animated Series, for the Scarecrow episode, "Nothing to Fear". After a staff writer gig on the WB's Tazmanian Devil animated series, Tazmania, Gilroy moved on to work on The Tick animated series before taking a staff job at Disney Television Animation for several years where he worked on such series as Timon & Pumbaa, Mickey Mouse Works, House of Mouse, Lilo & Stitch: The Series and Super Robot Monkey Team Hyperforce Go! before being chosen to develop and write the Star Wars: The Clone Wars CG animated series for Lucasfilm Animation with creator George Lucas and director Dave Filoni. He served as head writer for season one and part of season two, penning several episodes, including the first stories featuring fan favorite character Ahsoka Tano, among others. He is also the author of several Star Wars comic books.Leaving Lucasfilm, Gilroy spent two years at Hasbro Studios, where he developed and led the writing on two other animated series, G.I. Joe: Renegades and Kaijudo, and then moved on to Marvel Animation Studios where he acted as supervising producer and head writer on Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H. and Ultimate Spider-Man as well as penning two CG Marvel Heroes United films featuring team-ups with Iron Man & the Hulk and Iron Man & Captain America.
Gilroy is co-creator of the first Bionicle trilogy and has since written for numerous other animated series, such as The Mask, Justice League Unlimited, The 99, Kim Possible, and the direct-to-video Disney movie title Atlantis: Milo's Return and the Funimation anime film Mass Effect: Paragon Lost based on the hit video game for Electronic Arts and BioWare.Gilroy wrote the four-issue Joker/Mask comic book which was collected by Dark Horse/DC Comics in 2001. He also wrote the Dark Horse Alien one-shot comic books, Aliens: Herk Mondo and Aliens: Mondo Heat in collaboration with artist and Pixar director Ronnie del Carmen.In 2014, Gilroy returned to Lucasfilm under Disney studios to serve as co-executive producer and series writer of Star Wars: Rebels where he wrote seventeen episodes through 2018.In 2019, Gilroy was selected as the showrunner/head writer for an animated Magic: The Gathering TV show for Netflix with the Russo Brothers.In 2020, Gilroy began working on DreamWorks Dragons: The Nine Realms, an animated television series for DreamWorks Animation.

Television and film credits
Television
series head writer denoted in bold
Batman: The Animated Series (1992)
2 Stupid Dogs (1993)
The Tick (1994)
Taz-Mania (1994)
The Baby Huey Show (1994)
The Mask: Animated Series (1995)
Earthworm Jim (1995)
The Savage Dragon (1995–1996)
The Mouse and the Monster (1996)
All Dogs Go to Heaven: The Series (1998)
Timon & Pumbaa (1999)
Sherlock Holmes in the 22nd Century (1999)
Jackie Chan Adventures (2001)
Teamo Supremo (2002)
House of Mouse (2002)
Lilo & Stitch: The Series (2003)
Justice League Unlimited (2004)
Super Robot Monkey Team Hyperforce Go! (2006)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars (2008–2010)
Transformers Animated (2008)
The Secret Saturdays (2009)
G.I. Joe: Renegades (2010–2011)
Iron Man: Armored Adventures (2012)
Kaijudo: Rise of the Duel Masters (2012)
Voltron Force (2012)
Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H. (2012–2013)
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2014)
Ultimate Spider-Man Season 3 (2014)
Star Wars Rebels (2014–2018)
Avengers Assemble (2017)
Guardians of the Galaxy (2017)
DreamWorks Dragons: The Nine Realms (2021–present)

Film
Mickey's House of Villains (2002)
Atlantis: Milo’s Return (2003)
Bionicle: Mask of Light (2003)
Bionicle 2: Legends of Metru Nui (2004)
Bionicle 3: Web of Shadows (2005)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars (2008)
Mass Effect: Paragon Lost (2012)
Heroes United (2013–2014)
Passage 9:
Pelswick
John Callahan's Pelswick (or simply Pelswick) is an animated television series co-produced by Nelvana Enterprises, Inc. and Suzhou Hong Ying Animation Corporation Limited. The series is about the title character, who uses a wheelchair, emphasizing that he lived a normal life. It was based on the books created by John Callahan. Making a show suitable for children required toning down Callahan's dark humor somewhat, and the show was positive and life-affirming. For this, the show was very groundbreaking at the time.

Characters
Pelswick Eggert (voiced by Robert Tinkler) – A 13-year-old boy who uses a wheelchair. How he became a paraplegic is not revealed in the series, but the series' creators imply through commentary that it was due to a car accident. He dislikes it when people treat him differently because of his disability. He dislikes following the crowd and he goes by his own rules.
Ace Nakamura (voiced by Phil Guerrero) – Pelswick's best friend. Ace is technologically smarter than any of his friends, and is often the thinker of the situation.
Goon Gunderson (voiced by Peter Oldring) – Pelswick's other best friend. Huge and slow-witted in his actions and thoughts, Goon is generally good-hearted but rather dangerous when angry. He does not know that wrestling is staged.
Julie Smockford (voiced by Julie Lemieux) – A pretty girl and Pelswick's love interest. She hates all the cliques and popularity contests at school and seems to care mostly about her popularity and image. Julie is smart, dramatic, sometimes annoying, but cares a lot about Pelswick. Pelswick has a crush on her but she is completely oblivious about it. Julie believes in justice for all.
Sandra Scoddle (voiced by Kim Kuhteubl) – Julie's snooty and arrogant best friend/rival and one of Pelswick's friends. She thinks she is better than everyone else and often disputes with Julie. She thinks she is cool, but she's not. She gets caught into the latest trends.
Mr. Jimmy (voiced by David Arquette) – Pelswick's guardian angel who often gives him advice that confuses him until the last moment, no matter what it is. Pelswick cannot stand him and his issues. He is also the comic relief of the show.
Kate Eggert (voiced by Tracey Moore) – Pelswick's precocious younger sister. She treats her reputation as a little sister like a business and usually blackmails Pelswick when butting into his business. She has dreams of owning a big corporation. She is 10 years old.
Bobby Eggert – Pelswick's and Kate's baby brother. He rarely talks and admires Pelswick. Given that Pelswick and Kate's mother is unseen, it can be assumed Bobby is either adopted or is the child of a relative that their father is taking care of.
Quentin Eggert (voiced by Tony Rosato) – Pelswick, Kate and Bobby's politically correct father who works as a college professor until he is fired in "The Case of the Filched Files." He later gets his job back. He wants to do everything by papers. His wife was killed in the same car accident that made Pelswick into a paraplegic.
Priscilla "Gram-Gram" Eggert (voiced by Ellen Ray Hennessy) – Quentin's mother and Pelswick, Kate and Bobby's deranged grandmother. She often does "extreme" acts beyond that of a grandmother. Most of these acts results in her getting arrested.
Boyd Scullarzo (voiced by Chuck Campbell) – The bully of Pelswick's school who likes bullying Pelswick and others, not physically but with humiliation.
Vice Principal Ziegler (voiced by David Huband) – The vice principal of Jr High (Pelswick's school). Despite his title, he usually assumes the role of a principal. Throughout the show, there is no mention of there being a principal at Jr High. During the second episode of the series, this issue was lampshaded by Goon Gunderson who questioned why their school had a vice principal but no principal.

Episodes
Season 1 (2000–01)
Season 2 (2001–02)
Broadcast
The show aired in reruns on CBS during the Nick on CBS block from September 14 to November 23, 2002, and on Nicktoons from May 2002 to September 2005. The show reran on Adult Swim in Canada between early 2021 and mid-2022.