Passage 1:
2011 Baylor Bears football team
The 2011 Baylor Bears football team represented Baylor University in the 2011 NCAA Division I FBS football season. The team was coached by Art Briles and played their home games at Floyd Casey Stadium in Waco, Texas. They are members of the Big 12 Conference. They finished the season 10–3, 6–3 in Big 12 play to finish in a tie for third place with Oklahoma (whom they defeated during the season). The ten wins tied a school record for wins in a season while the 6–3 conference record is its best since joining the Big 12. They were invited to the Alamo Bowl where they beat Washington, 67–56, for their first bowl win since the 1992 John Hancock Bowl.
Junior starting quarterback Robert Griffin III won the Heisman Trophy, becoming the first Baylor player to win the award.

Recruiting
Baylor's recruiting class was ranked #46 by Rivals.com and #50 by Scout.com.

Regular season
Building on the success of the previous year's team, Baylor began the season at home with a 50–48 upset of then #14 TCU, winners of the previous season's Rose Bowl. The Bears won their next two games against Stephen F. Austin and Rice at home, before traveling to Kansas State where they lost a tightly contested game 35–36 to the greatly improved Bill Snyder-coached team.  After defeating Iowa State 49–26 at home, the Bears finished October losing two straight on the road at Texas A&M and eventual conference champion Oklahoma State.The Bears rebounded to finish the regular season with five straight victories including a Homecoming win over Missouri, a 31–30 overtime victory at Kansas in which Baylor tied a school record by overcoming a 21-point deficit in the 4th quarter, and the program's first win over then #5 Oklahoma on a 34-yard touchdown pass from Griffin to Terrance Williams with 8 seconds remaining in the game. Baylor concluded November in Dallas playing against Texas Tech in Cowboys Stadium; although Griffin left the game due to a concussion at the half, backup Nick Florence entered the game to lead the Bears to a 66–42 victory. Baylor's win over Texas Tech was their first since 1995.The Bears finished the regular season at home with a 48–24 victory over then #22 Texas that propelled the team (9–3, 6–3 Big 12) to the Alamo Bowl with #12 and #15 BCS and AP rankings respectively. The victory also propelled quarterback Robert Griffin III to the top of the Heisman Trophy voting; he became the first Baylor player to win the award and the first Baylor player since Don Trull in 1963 to factor significantly in the voting.

Schedule
^A Game was called at the end of the 3rd quarter due to lightning.

Game summaries
Missouri
Oklahoma
Baylor's first victory over Oklahoma in school history.

Texas Tech
Robert Griffin III was knocked out just before halftime with a concussion.

Texas
2011 Alamo Bowl
On December 4, 2011, Baylor accepted an invite to represent the Big-12 in the 2011 Alamo Bowl. Their opponents were the Washington Huskies of the Pac-12. The game was played at the Alamodome.  The crowd of 65,256 represented the 5th largest attendance in the history of the bowl game. A very good showing since the highest ever attendance at an Alamo bowl was only 66,100 which was set several years before.  The Bowl officials stated it was also the most exciting college football game ever witnessed at the Bowl.
The contest became the second-highest scoring bowl game in history, and the highest-scoring regulation bowl game ever. Baylor went up 21–7 early in the game, with Griffin throwing for one touchdown and rushing for another. The Huskies roared back with 28 unanswered points, and the teams finished the half with Washington leading 35–24. In the second half, with the defenses showing limited ability to cope with the high-powered offenses led by Griffin and Husky QB Keith Price, the teams traded scores. The Bears overcame the halftime deficit, going ahead for good 60–56 halfway in the 4th quarter, and Baylor RB Terrance Ganaway tacked on a final 43-yard touchdown run with 2:28 left to play. Ganaway finished with 21 carries for 200 yards and 5 TDs, and was recognized as the game's offensive MVP. The victory represented Baylor's first bowl win since a victory in the John Hancock (Sun) Bowl in 1992. With the win, Baylor had their first 10-win season since 1980.

Awards and honors
Davey O'Brien Award: Robert Griffin III
Heisman Trophy: Robert Griffin III
AP Player of the Year: Robert Griffin III
Sporting News Player of the Year: Robert Griffin III

Rankings
Passage 2:
2010 Connecticut Huskies football team
The 2010 Connecticut Huskies football team represented the University of Connecticut in the 2010 NCAA Division I FBS football season as a member of the Big East Conference. The team was coached by Randy Edsall and played its home games at Rentschler Field in East Hartford, Connecticut. The Huskies finished 8–5, 5–2 in Big East play to share the conference title with Pittsburgh and West Virginia. Due to victories over both schools, the Huskies earned the Big East's automatic bid to a BCS game, and were invited to the Fiesta Bowl where they were defeated by Big 12 champion Oklahoma 48–20.  It was the first major-bowl appearance in the program's 115-year history.

Previous season
The 2009 team finished with a record of 8–5, 3–4 in Big East play and won the PapaJohns.com Bowl 20–7 against South Carolina.

Before the season
Coaching changes
Connecticut lost two assistant coaches in January, when the tight ends coach, Dave McMichael left to accept the same position at West Virginia, and defensive backs coach, Scott Lakatos, left for the same position at Georgia.
On February 4, UConn announced that Jon Wholley would return to the coaching staff as the tight ends coach, and Darrell Perkins would assume the defensive backs coaching position.

Roster changes
The Huskies lost eight starters from the 2009 team to graduation.  Among them, Marcus Easley and Robert McClain were drafted into the NFL.  In addition to the graduation losses, quarterback Casey Turner, and offensive linemen Scott Schultz and Zac Zielinski, all backups, transferred out of UConn.  On July 1, Randy Edsall announced that safety, Marcus Aiken had been dismissed from the University for academic reasons, and that wide receiver, Malik Generett was ineligible for the 2010 season, also for academic reasons.  Generett remained enrolled at the university and could practice with the team, but is not able to play in games.On July 9, former USC fullback, D.J. Shoemate announced that he was transferring to UConn from the scandal-plagued Trojan program, which earned a two-year postseason ban.  Due to an NCAA ruling that states any USC junior or senior can transfer without sitting out for a year, Shoemate was eligible to play in 2010.

Recruiting
On February 3, 2010, Randy Edsall announced that 20 student-athletes had signed a National Letter of Intent to attend Connecticut.  Four; Jonathan Louis, Greg McKee, Andrew Opoku and Gilbert St. Louis; entered school in January to participate in spring practice.  In addition to the 20 high school student athletes, two members from the 2009 recruiting class; Leon Kinnard and Michael Osiecki, also enrolled in school in January.

Awards watchlists
The players listed below have been named to the following preseason award watch lists.

Schedule
Roster
Game summaries
Michigan
Recap: Connecticut opened the season on the road against the Michigan Wolverines in the first meeting between the two schools.  Total attendance for the game was 113,090 at Michigan Stadium.  This was the largest crowd ever to attend a college football game.
The first quarter was all Michigan. First a 12-yard touchdown run by Vincent Smith. A few minutes later came a 32-yard TD run by quarterback Denard Robinson. Michigan started the second quarter with another touchdown, this time with a 3-yard run by Michael Shaw. The only scoring by Connecticut came in the second quarter: first a 32-yard field goal by Dave Teggert, and later a 2-yard run by Jordan Todman. In the third quarter Michigan's only points was a 24-yard field goal by Brendan Gibbons. In the fourth quarter Michigan's Vincent Smith ran in another touchdown, this time from 11 yards out. The extra point attempt was no good, however.  Robinson ran for 197 yards, setting a school record for a quarterback.Series: Michigan leads 1–0

Texas Southern
Recap: Jordan Todman rushed for 151 yards on 15 carries and 3 touchdowns, all in the first half, as Connecticut dominated an overmatched Texas Southern team, 62–3.  Robbie Frey also eclipsed the 100-yard rushing mark with 101 yards on 12 carries and 2 touchdowns.  It was the first time the Huskies produced two 100-yard rushers in the same game since November 21, 2009 against Notre Dame.  The 59 point margin of victory tied the largest for UConn in their FBS era.  The 62 points scored is a Rentschler Field record, and the second most tallied in UConn's FBS years.
After the victory, game balls were awarded to Jordan Todman (offense), Lawrence Wilson (defense) and Anthony Sherman (special teams).Series: Connecticut leads 1–0

Temple
Recap: Jordan Todman rushed for a career-high 192 yards, but had a costly fourth-quarter fumble that led to Temple's go-ahead touchdown as the Huskies lost to the Owls 30–16. Bernard Pierce ran for 179 yards and scored three touchdowns to lead the Owls to their first victory over Connecticut since 2002.Despite outgaining Temple by over 100 yards in the first half, UConn could only muster two field goals, and trailed at halftime, 7–6.  Todman scored the Huskies only touchdown on the opening series of the second half, when he ran 63 yards for the score.  Temple answered with a touchdown scoring of their own, when Pierce scored from one yard out.  David Teggart gave the lead back to the Huskies, with a 47-yard field goal late in the third quarter.With a 16–14 lead, Todman, who earlier briefly left the game with an injured elbow, was stripped by Adrian Robinson while fighting for extra yards.  Robinson returned the fumble for a touchdown.  After a Huskies three-and-out series, Temple's Delano Green returned the ensuing punt to the Huskies two-yard line.  Pierce later scored his third touchdown.  The Owls added a late field goal to make the final score 30–16.After the game, Todman was named to the Big East Conference's weekly honor roll.Series: Temple leads 8–4

Buffalo
Recap: Connecticut returned home to face the University at Buffalo Bulls.  It was the first time the teams met since the 2009 International Bowl.  The Huskies started the scoring early when Jerome Junior intercepted a pass by Bulls quarterback Jerry Davis for a touchdown.  D.J. Shoemate, who started for the injured Jordan Todman, would later add a first-quarter touchdown and a 14–0 UConn lead.  Buffalo responded by scoring two touchdowns in the second quarter, both on passes from Davis to Ed Young, and the score was tied 14–14 at halftime.
Cody Endres, in his first game back from suspension, replaced UConn's starting quarterback, Zach Frazer, in the second half, and led the Huskies to two quick scores, including a 56-yard touchdown pass to Michael Smith.  Robbie Frey, who replaced Shoemate late in the first half, added a touchdown, and finished with 112 rushing yards on 13 carries.  Endres threw a second touchdown pass and finished with 139 passing yards while completing 7 of his 11 passing attempts.  Blidi Wreh-Wilson completed the scoring for Connecticut when he returned an intercepted pass 46 yards for a touchdown.
Sio Moore, who was making his first career start, had 16 tackles and an interception, and was named the Big East Defensive Player of the Week.  Robbie Frey was also named to the weekly honor roll.Game balls: Robbie Frey (offense), Jerome Junior (defense) and Anthony Sherman (special teams)Series: Connecticut leads 14–4

Vanderbilt
Recap: Jordan Todman rushed for 190 yards and scored 2 touchdowns as Connecticut defeated Vanderbilt, 40–21.  Both of Todman's touchdowns were in the first half when the Huskies took a 14–0 lead.  Vanderbilt scored game's next three touchdowns, all in the span of 3 minutes and 38 seconds to take a 21–14 lead late in the first half.  Cody Endres, making his first start of the year, threw a touchdown pass to Kashif Moore to tie the game at 21 going into halftime.The Huskies took the lead when they scored on the opening drive of the second half with a touchdown pass from Endres to Corey Manning.  It was Manning's first reception and touchdown of his career.  UConn would add a field goal and a defensive touchdown from Blidi Wreh-Wilson later in the second half.  Wreh-Wilson's interception return for a touchdown was his second in as many weeks.  Late in the game, Vanderbilt snapped the ball through the end zone for a safety to make the final score, 40–21.  It was Connecticut's second win ever against an opponent from the SEC.Wreh-Wilson, who also recovered a fumble in addition to his interception and touchdown, was named the Big East's Defensive Player of the Week.  Todman was named to the weekly honor roll.Series: Tied 1–1

Rutgers
Recap: Chas Dodd threw for 322 yards and led Rutgers to 10 fourth quarter points as the Scarlet Knights defeated UConn, 27–24. The Huskies led by 7 with less than 4 minutes remaining in the game when Dodd completed a 52-yard touchdown pass to Jeremy Deering to tie the game. San San Te later kicked the game-winning field goal with 13 seconds left in the game.Jordan Todman led the Huskies with 123 yards rushing, including a 66-yard touchdown run in the second quarter.  The run was a career long for Todman.  Quarterback Cody Endres made his second consecutive start, and threw for 153 yards and a touchdown.  Nick Williams scored his first career touchdown when he returned a kickoff 100 yards for a touchdown.Series: Rutgers leads 21−9

Louisville
Recap: The Huskies travelled to Louisville after their first bye week of the season to play the Cardinals.  During the week off, two starters were lost from the team when offensive guard, Erik Kuraczea withdrew from the university, and quarterback, Cody Endres was suspended for the remainder of the season.  Head coach Randy Edsall later announced that Endres would not return to the team for his senior season in 2011.  Endres's suspension meant that freshman, Mike Box would make his first career start.  He would only complete 4 of 12 passes for 35 yards, and would eventually leave the game with a concussion.Louisville scored 13 points in each half and was led by Bilal Powell, who had 105 yards rushing.  They earned two touchdowns, one on a pass from Adam Froman to Cameron in the first quarter, and the second on a 75-yard punt return from Doug Beaumont.  Kicker Chris Philpott added 4 field goals.  The Huskies were led by 80 rushing yards from Jordan Todman.  Their only venture into the red zone resulted in a missed field goal by Dave Teggart.It was the first time UConn was shut out since November 2005, when they lost at Pittsburgh, 24–0.Series: Louisville leads 4–3

West Virginia
Recap: Jordan Todman had a career-high 33 carries for 113 yards and a touchdown as UConn earned its first victory ever over West Virginia.  Despite being outgained, 414−278, the Huskies were beneficiaries of 4 Mountaineer lost fumbles, including one by Ryan Clarke in overtime.West Virginia scored first when wide receiver Brad Starks took an end-around handoff 53 yards for a touchdown just under 5 minutes into the game.  Kicker Tyler Bitancurt added a 43-yard field goal to make the score 10−0 at the end of the first quarter.  The Huskies did not gain a first down until the second quarter, and punted on each of their first 6 possessions.  However, Zach Frazer, who started in place of an injured Mike Box, led them on a 12-play, 63-yard drive, culminating with a 39-yard field goal from Dave Teggart to end the first half.  It was the first point that they had scored in nearly 8 quarters.
West Virginia opened the second half with a drive to UConn's 26-yard line, before they were stopped on fourth down.  Todman scored on a 24-yard run on the ensuing drive, making the score 10−10.  Tyler Bitancurt added a 42-yard field goal to give the Mountaineers a 13−10 lead at the end of the third quarter.  Following a Huskies punt, West Virginia drove into UConn territory when Sio Moore forced Geno Smith to fumble.  Lawrence Wilson recovered the ball for UConn.  The next play after the turnover, Frazer completed a 40-yard pass to Kashif Moore to put the ball at the West Virginia 15-yard line.  Teggart later kicked a 26-yard field goal to tie the score at 13.  The score remained 13−13 until the end of regulation.In overtime, UConn won the coin toss and elected to play defense on the first possession.  West Virginia moved the ball to the one-yard line when Clarke fumbled and Wilson recovered for the Huskies.  With the Mountaineers failing to score a point on their possession, the Huskies would only need to kick a field goal to win the game.  UConn took the ball at West Virginia's 25-yard line, and Todman ran 4 times for 16 yards before Teggart kicked the game winning 27-yard field goal.In the week following the game, UConn swept the Big East weekly honors when Jordan Todman was named the Big East Offensive Player of the Week, Sio Moore won the Defensive award, and Dave Teggart, the Special Teams honoree.  Moore, who had 17 tackles, forced 2 fumbles and recovered 2 fumbles, was also awarded the Walter Camp Defensive Player of the Week.Series: West Virginia leads 6−1

Pittsburgh
Recap:  Jordan Todman set new career highs with 222 yards rushing on 37 carries as the Huskies defeated Pittsburgh 30–28.  Zach Frazer made his second consecutive start and completed 9 of 20 passes for 100 yards.  He threw an interception on the first play of the game, and Pittsburgh responded with a 4-yard touchdown run by Dion Lewis.  UConn scored on the ensuing drive on a 36-yard pass from Frazer to Kashif Moore to tie the game at 7.  Dave Teggart added 2 field goals to give the Huskies a 13–7 lead in the third quarter.Later in the third quarter, Pittsburgh was able to get its offense going when Tino Sunseri completed a 42-yard pass to Jon Baldwin.  The Panthers scored on the drive with a one-yard run from Lewis.  After a Connecticut punt, Pitt extended its lead to 21–13 on a Ray Graham touchdown run.  Nick Williams returned the ensuing kickoff 95 yards for a touchdown to make the score 21–20 at the end of the third quarter.  It was Williams' second kick-off return for a touchdown of the year.After trading punts to begin the fourth quarter, the Huskies took a 23–21 lead on a 25-yard field goal from Teggart.  Robbie Frey recovered a Graham fumble on the following kick-off for the Huskies.  Two plays later, Frazer threw a 14-yard touchdown pass to Isiah Moore to extend the lead to 30–21.  Pitt scored on their next possession when they went 70 yards in only 1 minute and 50 seconds on a 20-yard touchdown catch by Baldwin.  UConn got the ball back at their ten-yard line and 4:29 left in the game.  With 2:50 left in the game, and the ball on their own 19-yard line, the Huskies faced a fourth down with one yard to gain.  Instead of punting the ball back to Pitt, they handed the ball to Todman, who gained 4 yards and the first down.  If they had failed to get the first down, Pittsburgh would have been given the ball within range to kick a go-ahead field goal.  Todman gained 41 yards on the final drive, and the Huskies ran the remaining time off the clock to give them a 30–28 victory.Lawrence Wilson had 11 tackles and a sack, and was named the Big East's Defensive Player of the Week.  Todman was also named to the weekly honor roll.Series: Connecticut leads 4−3

Syracuse
Recap: Connecticut then travelled to upstate New York to take on the Syracuse Orange. Coming into the game, the Huskies had defeated the Orange on 3 straight occasions.  Syracuse entered the game with a victory over Rutgers which made the Orange bowl-eligible for the first time since 2004.  Although refuted by coach, Doug Marrone, there were some in the Syracuse organization who felt that UConn had run up the score on the Orange the previous year, possibly adding motivation to the game.  A win for the Huskies would make them bowl eligible for the fourth consecutive season, while a loss would eliminate them from a chance to win the Big East Conference.Connecticut scored a touchdown on their first possession of the game on a one-yard run by Jordan Todman.  Syracuse responded on the next drive with a 42-yard field goal from Ross Krautman to make the score 7–3.  Later in the first half, following a Huskies interception by Kendall Reyes, Dave Teggart kicked a 35-yard field goal to make the score at half-time, 10–3.Syracuse scored first in the second half with a second field goal from Krautman.  Connecticut went three and out on the next drive and punted the ball back to Syracuse.  After a couple of short runs by Delone Carter, Reyes sacked quarterback Ryan Nassib on the Orange 8-yard line, forcing him to fumble.  UConn's Trevardo Williams recovered the fumble at the 4-yard line.  Todman scored a touchdown on the following play to extend the Huskies lead to 17–6.  Teggart added two fourth-quarter field goals to make the final score 23–6.Todman finished the game with 130 rushing yards to go with his two touchdowns.  Both he and Reyes were named to the Big East Conference's weekly honor roll.After the victory, game balls were given to Todman on offense, Reyes on defense and Cole Wagner for special teams.Series: Connecticut leads 5–2

Cincinnati
Recap: Connecticut returned home to Rentschler Field to honor the graduating seniors and to play the Cincinnati Bearcats.  The previous day, West Virginia defeated Pittsburgh, meaning UConn would win the Big East conference with wins in their last two games of the season.The Huskies opened the scoring when Zach Frazer threw a 16-yard touchdown pass to Anthony Sherman.  It was the first career touchdown for Sherman, who, as a senior, was playing in his last home game.  Cincinnati's Jacob Rogers kicked a field goal to make the score 7–3 at the end of the first quarter.  UConn extended their lead to 14–3 on a Robbie Frey touchdown, which followed a fumble by Cincinnati running back, Isiah Pead.  The Bearcats responded with a 78-yard drive that ended with a touchdown catch by Armon Binns.  Following a Dave Teggart field goal to make the score 17–10, the Bearcats drove into the Huskies red zone with less than 2 minutes remaining in the first half.  A touchdown would have tied the score at halftime, however, for the second consecutive week, Kendall Reyes intercepted a deflected pass.  This time, he returned it for an apparent touchdown.  The score was called back due to an illegal block in the back penalty against UConn's Lawrence Wilson.  The Huskies kept possession, and were given the ball at Cincinnati's 15-yard line.  Five plays later, Jordan Todman scored a touchdown to make the score at halftime 24–10.After a scoreless third quarter, Cincinnati scored a touchdown on a run by Zach Collaros to make the score 24–17.  Robbie Frey returned the ensuing kickoff to the Cincinnati 36-yard line.  Five plays later, Todman scored his second touchdown to extend the lead to 31–17.  Collaros threw an interception to Blidi Wreh-Wilson on the next possession, and Wreh-Wilson returned it to the Bearcats 14-yard line.  Todman added his third touchdown to make the final score 38–17.  In all, the Huskies intercepted four Collaros passes.Todman rushed for 175 yards and three touchdowns, and was named the Big East Player of the Week for the second time.  Kendall Reyes was also named to the weekly honor roll.Series: Cincinnati leads 5–2

South Florida
Recap: The Huskies travelled to Tampa to conclude the regular season to take on the South Florida Bulls.  With a victory, they would share the Big East title with West Virginia and Pittsburgh, and due to victories over each, would claim the conference's BCS bowl bid.South Florida opened the scoring with a 42-yard field goal from Maikon Bonani on their first possession of the game.  UConn tied the game on their next possession with a 40-yard field goal from Dave Teggart.  The teams traded punts for most of the remainder of the first half until South Florida's Jon Legiste intercepted a Zach Frazer pass at the Bulls seven-yard line.  Legiste returned the interception to the South Florida 49-yard line.  On the next play, Bulls quarterback Bobby Eveld, who was making his first career start in place of an injured B.J. Daniels, was intercepted by UConn linebacker Lawrence Wilson.  Wilson, who caught the ball off of a deflection, returned the interception for a touchdown and giving the Huskies a 10–3 lead at halftime.The teams traded field goals in the third quarter to make the score 13–6 going into the fourth quarter.  Teggart opened the fourth quarter with a 50-yard field goal to give UConn a 16–6 lead.  The field goal was the longest of his career to that point.  Later in the quarter, South Florida recovered a Jordan Todman fumble at the Huskies 30-yard line.  Two plays later, Eveld threw a 28-yard touchdown pass to Dontavia Bogan to cut the Huskies' lead to 16–13.  Later in the fourth quarter, the Bulls drove the field to the Huskies 5-yard line with under 2 minutes in the game.  They were unable to score a touchdown, but Bonani kicked his third field goal of the game to tie the game at 16 with 1:16 remaining in the fourth quarter.  Robbie Frey returned the following kickoff to the Huskies 40-yard line.  Zach Frazer then threw completions to Kashif Moore and Michael Smith to set up Teggart to kick the game winning 52-yard field goal with only 17 seconds left in the game.  A last second hail mary pass by the Bulls was knocked down, giving the Huskies a 19–16 victory.With the victory, Connecticut clinched a spot in a BCS bowl game.  The following day, it was announced that they would play in the 2011 Fiesta Bowl against the Big 12 champion Oklahoma Sooners.Dave Teggart, who successfully made 4 field goals in 4 attempts, including 2 of over 50 yards, was named the Big East Conference's Special Teams Player of the Week.  Linebacker Lawrence Wilson was also named to the weekly honor roll.Series: Tied 4–4

Oklahoma–Fiesta Bowl
After the season
Shortly after the completion of the Fiesta Bowl, Jordan Todman announced that he would forgo his senior season and enter the NFL draft.
On January 2, reports surfaced that head coach Randy Edsall did not accompany the team on the chartered flight from Phoenix back to Hartford, instead flying to Baltimore to interview for the vacant Maryland head coaching position.   Later that day, Maryland issued a press release stating that they had hired Edsall to replace Ralph Friedgen as head coach.

Notes
Scoring for Connecticut has been Dave Teggart, who kicked 23 field goals with a season 103 points, and Jordan Todman, who scored 14 touchdowns for 84 points. During the season, Todman rushed 302 times for 1574 yards (143.1 yards per game).
Passage 3:
2008 Houston Cougars football team
The 2008 Houston Cougars football team, also known as the Houston Cougars, Houston, or UH, represented the University of Houston in the 2008 NCAA Division I FBS football season.  It was the 63rd year of season play for Houston.  The team was coached by first-year head football coach, Kevin Sumlin whose previous position was as co-offensive coordinator for the Oklahoma Sooners.  He replaced Art Briles.  The team played its home games at Robertson Stadium, a 32,000-person capacity stadium on-campus in Houston.  Competing against the Air Force Falcons in the 2008 Armed Forces Bowl, the Cougars won their first bowl game since 1980, and broke the longest current bowl game losing streak in Division I FBS football at that time.  In addition, Houston defeated two nationally ranked opponents, which the Cougars hadn't achieved since their 1984 season.

Previous season
In the 2007 season, the Cougars earned an 8-5 (.615) overall season record and a 6-2 (.750) conference record in C-USA.  The 2007 season would be the last for head coach Art Briles with the Cougars.  Two days after Houston was invited to the 2007 Texas Bowl, Briles immediately departed for the Baylor Bears head coach position in Waco, Texas.  Cornerbacks coach, Chris Thurmond was soon appointed interim head coach, and led the Cougars to the Texas Bowl against the TCU Horned Frogs. The Cougars lost to the Horned Frogs 20-13.In December 2007, the University of Houston hired Kevin Sumlin, a co-offensive coordinator for the Oklahoma Sooners as the Houston Cougars head coach.

Preseason
Recruiting
Twenty players were recruited for the 2008 season.  Several higher-ranking recruits were lost when Art Briles left, as they followed the coach to Baylor.  Due to Houston's head coach change, Sumlin's ability to recruit before National Signing Day was shorter than usual, as he was finishing his duties with the Oklahoma Sooners.  In early April, it was announced that the Cougars had two other junior college commitments.  Kyle Thomas and Nick Thurston, both from California, came from the City College of San Francisco.  Two other junior college (JUCO) commitments, Clint Leal and Kierrie Johnson, were recruited from Blinn College.  Thomas is expected to join the roster in the Spring, as he still had some coursework to finish in California.

Coaching staff and changes
During the off-season, the Cougars went through a large amount of notable coaching staff changes.  Former co-offensive coordinator for the Oklahoma Sooners, Kevin Sumlin replaced Art Briles as head coach.  Sumlin became the first African-American head coach in Cougar history, and the eighth in the NCAA's Football Bowl Subdivision.  In his final year with the Sooners, his offense was one of the best in the country, averaging 44 points per game.Dana Holgorsen came to Houston from the Texas Tech Red Raiders, where he spent eight years as offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach.  He serves the Cougars in the same capacity.
John Skladany replaced Alan Weddell as defensive coordinator.  Skladany came from the UCF Knights, a fellow C-USA team.  Prior to coaching for UCF, Skladany spent ten years with the Iowa State Cyclones.  Sumlin and Skladany followed through with plans to change the Cougars defensive strategy from a 3-4 defense to a 4-3 one.Leon Burtnett came from the Washington State Cougars as linebackers coach.  New defensive line coach, Jim Jeffcoat spent his last four seasons as defensive ends coach for the NFL's Dallas Cowboys.  Another new addition to the staff with NFL coaching experience was special teams coordinator and tight ends coach Tony Levine, who spent his previous two seasons with the Carolina Panthers.

Staff
Spring practices
From March 8 to April 12, 2008, the Cougars held Spring practices.  In addition to the fourteen practices held throughout this period, the Cougars held two scrimmages, and concluded with the annual "Red-White Game".  The Red-White Game, a home exhibition game between the offensive and defensive players of the Cougars, was a part of festivities held for the University of Houston's "Cougar Fest".  A skydive by the U.S. Army Golden Knights to present the game ball was planned, but was canceled due to high winds.

Schedule
Games notes
Southern
The 2008 game marked the first meeting between the Houston Cougars and the Southern Jaguars.  The team plays in the Southwestern Athletic Conference (SWAC) as a member of the Division I Football Championship Subdivision.  The Grambling Tigers, the Jaguars' main rival, fell to the Cougars as part of their 2006 season schedule 42-22.  In 2007, the Cougars finished their regular season by defeating another SWAC opponent, crosstown Texas Southern Tigers.

Oklahoma State
This marked the nineteenth game between the Cougars and the Oklahoma State Cowboys who were a member of the Big 12 Conference.  Playing against each other since 1951, the Cougars held a 9-8-1 all-time record against the Cowboys, and the last meeting between the two teams was during the 2006 season.  During that meeting, the Cowboys fell to the Cougars 34-25.  The Cougars traveled to Stillwater for the first time since 1986 to compete.  Despite leading the Cowboys during the first half of the game, the Cougars eventually lost 56-37.  The Cowboys went on to be consistently ranked this season as one of the top 25 teams in the nation.

Air Force
Another first meeting on the Cougars' schedule was with the Air Force Falcons.  A member of the Mountain West Conference, the Falcons played football since 1955.  The previous season, the Falcons finished with a 9-4 record, while losing to the California Golden Bears in the 2007 Armed Forces Bowl.  The game was scheduled to be televised on the CBS College Sports Network as the first of the four nationally televised games for the Cougars season, but was canceled.  The game was originally scheduled to be played at Robertson Stadium in Houston, but due to Hurricane Ike, the game was played at SMU's Ford Stadium.  The Cougars fell to the Falcons 31-28.

Colorado State
With a 3-0 all-time record against the Colorado State Rams, the Cougars faced them for the fourth time on the road at Hughes Stadium.  The most recent meeting between the teams had been the season before, where the Rams lost to the Cougars 38-27 in Houston.  Steve Fairchild, a former player for the Rams, and the former offensive coordinator and under previous head coach Sonny Lubick, had taken over as head coach during this season. With a third consecutive loss, the Cougars fell to the Rams 28-25.

East Carolina
This game was the ninth meeting between the Cougars and fellow Conference USA team, the East Carolina Pirates.  Last season, after defeating the Cougars 37-35, the Pirates went on to finish with an 8-5 record including a win against #24 Boise State in the 2007 Hawaii Bowl.  The Pirates led the series between the Cougars 8-5.  The game was broadcast on the CBS College Sports Network, and was played at East Carolina's Dowdy–Ficklen Stadium.  After beating the #17 Virginia Tech Hokies during their 2008 season opener, the Pirates gained national attention.  This continued in their next week of play, as they defeated the #8 West Virginia Mountaineers 24-3, and became ranked by the AP Poll as #14.  Despite an upset by the North Carolina State Wolfpack the week before, the Pirates were ranked at #23 by the AP Poll when the Cougars arrived in Greenville.  Despite predictions that ECU would win the game, the Cougars managed an upset with a large margin of victory.  This was the Cougars' first win over a ranked team since 1996, and the first against a ranked team in a road game since 1984.

UAB
The third home game was the seventh meeting between the Cougars and the UAB Blazers.  With the most recent game between the two teams being last season, the Blazers led the series 4-2. However, the team was defeated by the Cougars, and finished their 2007 season with a 2-10 record, the worst in the school's history.  This followed the departure of Watson Brown to the Tennessee Tech Golden Eagles, and the appointment of former Georgia Bulldogs and Houston Cougars assistant Neil Callaway as head coach.  The game was televised by the CBS College Sports Network.

SMU
Former Southwest Conference and current Conference USA members, the SMU Mustangs faced the Cougars in their twenty-fourth meeting.  The first game between the two teams took place during the 1975 season when Houston joined the Southwest Conference, and the teams have regularly played each other since.  The Cougars led the series 13-9-1, including a 38-28 win against the Mustangs last season.  This season, June Jones, former Hawaii Warriors head coach took the same position at SMU.  At Hawaii, Jones had gained national attention after the Warriors went undefeated, and were invited to the 2008 Sugar Bowl.  After the win, the Cougars moved up in the Conference USA standings to tie for first with an undefeated Tulsa in their division.

Marshall
The Marshall Thundering Herd played the Cougars for the second time in history during this season.  Their last game against each other was played during the 2007 season, where the Thundering Herd was defeated 35-28 in Houston at Robertson Stadium.  This time, Marshall played Houston at home, and won.  This marked the first loss for the Cougars in conference play, and dropped them down in conference standings from 1st to 3rd (after Tulsa and Rice). ESPN broadcast the game. Houston wide receiver Patrick Edwards suffered a gruesome broken leg when he collided with an equipment cart at the back of the end zone, though he would return the next season in a starting role.

Tulane
In another conference game, the Tulane Green Wave traveled to Houston to play the Cougars for the fourteenth time.  Playing their first game together in 1968, the Cougars led the series 9-4.  The teams had competed against each other each consecutive season since 2002, although Tulane hadn't achieved a win against Houston since that same year.  Tulane's head coach Bob Toledo returned for his second year with the Green Wave.  Although not originally scheduled, the game was televised on CBS College Sports, presumably because Houston's TV appearance against Air Force earlier in the season was canceled.  This marked Houston's homecoming game, and was one of the largest attendances for the regular season at Robertson Stadium.

Tulsa
The Tulsa Golden Hurricane and Houston Cougars faced-off for their thirty-third all-time meeting.  Playing together since 1950, Houston had a 17-16 advantage over the Golden Hurricane.  In their 2007 season meeting, new coach Todd Graham led the Golden Hurricane to a 56-7 win over the Cougars.  It was the Cougars' largest margin of defeat for the season.  Tulsa went on to a 10-4 record in the previous season including a 63-7 GMAC Bowl game win against the Bowling Green Falcons.  The team held the record for scoring the largest margin in bowl game history.  The win was considered an upset by the nation, as Tulsa was ranked as #24 in the Coaches' Poll and #25 in the AP Poll.  This marked the second time that the Cougars had beaten a nationally ranked opponent in the season (the other being East Carolina); something Houston hadn't done since its 1984 season under College Football Hall of Fame coach Bill Yeoman.After the win, the Cougars were again ranked as first in conference play as Tulsa (5-1) had beaten Rice (5-1), and Houston (5-1) had beaten Tulsa.  This made Houston's other two regular season games on the schedule much more significant because if they won both games from this point, they would be allowed to compete in and host the Conference USA Football Championship.

UTEP
Although meeting for the first time during the Cougars' inaugural season in 1946, the UTEP Miners had only met with the Cougars five times in history.  As Conference USA foes, the Cougars held a 2-3 all-time record against the Miners, whereas both wins came consecutively during the 2006 and 2007 meetings of the teams.  Mike Price returned as the Miners' head coach this season.  After a close game, where Houston lagged behind, the Cougars made a fourth quarter comeback to win the game.

Rice
In the 2008 Bayou Bucket Classic, the Cougars will meet with Rice at Rice Stadium as part of the Houston-Rice rivalry.  It will be the 33rd meeting between the two teams, where Houston leads the series 24-9 and have won the last three meetings.  During this season, the outcome of the game will have significant influence for the Conference USA West Division title.  While Houston remains first in the division, a loss to Rice, and a win for Tulsa (9-2) against Marshall (4-7) would mean Tulsa, not Houston would be headed to compete against the East Division champion East Carolina in the Conference USA Football Championship.  If Rice wins its game against the Cougars, and Marshall wins its game against the Golden Hurricane, then Rice would be the West Division champion.  The game was picked up by CBS College Sports after Houston's 70-30 blowout victory against Tulsa.

Armed Forces Bowl
With seven regular season wins, the Cougars secured bowl eligibility.  On December 7, 2008, the Houston Cougars announced that they had been selected to play in the 2008 Armed Forces Bowl game against Air Force in Fort Worth, Texas.  This marked the Cougars' fourth consecutive bowl game invitation, and the fifth in six years.  The game was a rematch, as the Falcons and the Cougars faced off earlier during the regular season, where the Cougars were defeated.  This was the second time in history the Cougars had played a bowl game in Fort Worth; in 2005 the team appeared in the Fort Worth Bowl.
The Cougars defeated the Falcons to win their first bowl game since 1980, and broke the longest current bowl game losing streak in Division I FBS football at that time.  The score was 34-28.  The game was televised on ESPN.
Passage 4:
2011 Washington Huskies football team
The 2011 Washington Huskies football team represented the University of Washington in the 2011 NCAA Division I FBS football season. The team was coached by third year head coach Steve Sarkisian. They played six of their home games at Husky Stadium and their final home game at CenturyLink Field due to a planned renovation of Husky Stadium; both stadiums are in Seattle. They are a member of the North Division of the Pac-12 Conference. They finished the season 7–6, 5–4 in Pac-12 play to finish in third place in the North division. They were invited to the Alamo Bowl where they were defeated by Baylor 67–56.

Schedule
Roster and coaching staff
Game Starters
The follow players were the game starters.
% – started as second/third tight end       + – started as third/fourth wide receiver

^ – started as fifth defensive back

Game summaries
Eastern Washington
Washington Husky cornerback Desmond Trufant intercepted a pass by Eastern Washington Eagles' quarterback Bo Levi Mitchell in the end zone with 29 seconds left to preserve a 30–27 win on September 3. Trufant wrestled the pass away from 6-foot-5 Eagles receiver Brandon Kaufman. Mitchell passed for 473 yards on the night, completed 39 of 69 passes, and had 3 touchdowns against 2 interceptions. For Washington, quarterback Keith Price threw three touchdown passes and completed 17 of 25 passes for 102 yards, and running back Chris Polk ran for 125 yards on 23 carries. Washington gained fewer total yards than Eastern Washington – 250 yards compared to 504 for the Eagles – but had zero turnovers while the Eagles gave up the ball four times. Trufant had forced another one of those turnovers during the first quarter; he stripped Matt Johnson on a punt return and created a short field for the Huskies that led to a 7-yard touchdown pass from Price to Jonathan Amosa.After the game, the Pac-12 Conference named Trufant Pac-12 defensive player of week. Washington placekicker Erik Folk was named Pac-12 special teams player of the week. Polk was a perfect 3-for-3 on field goals during the game and all three of his field goals came from outside of 40 yards.

Hawaii
Nebraska
California
Utah
Colorado
Stanford
Arizona
Oregon
USC
Oregon State
Washington State
Keith Price threw three touchdown passes to become Washington's all-time single-season leader in that category, the final one a 22-yard toss to Chris Polk, and Washington held off rival Washington State 38–21 on Saturday night to win the 104th Apple Cup. Price threw his 29th touchdown pass of the season midway through the third quarter, finding Polk on a wheel-route out of the backfield to give the Huskies a 28–14 lead.
Washington State pulled within 28–21, but Erik Folk's 46-yard field goal early in the fourth quarter pushed the lead to 10 and Polk sealed the Huskies third straight Apple Cup title on his 1-yard TD run with 5:23 left.
Price, who sat out last week's loss at Oregon State due to a multitude of injuries, finished 21 of 29 for 291 yards. Washington also got a blocked punt that Jesse Callier returned 2 yards for a touchdown in the first quarter.The Cougars fired head coach Paul Wulff the following week.

Baylor (Alamo Bowl)
Entering their first game in the Alamo Bowl, the Huskies has a 16–14–1 overall bowl game record, going back to their first game in the 1924 Rose Bowl. The Huskies set new school record during the season in passing touchdowns (32) and in fewest fumbles (11).

Rankings
Passage 5:
2009 Texas Tech Red Raiders football team
The 2009 Texas Tech Red Raiders football team represented Texas Tech University as a member of the Big 12 Conference during the 2009 NCAA Division I FBS football season. The team was led by tenth-year head coach Mike Leach during the regular season and, following Leach’s dismissal, interim head coach Ruffin McNeill for the bowl game. The Red Raiders compiled an overall record of 9–4 with a mrk of 5–3 in conference play, tying for third place in the Big 12's South Division. Texas Tech was invited to the Alamo Bowl, where they defeated Michigan State, 41–31. The Red Raiders played home games at Jones AT&T Stadium in Lubbock, Texas.
On December 28, Leach was suspended by Texas Tech pending investigation of alleged inappropriate treatment of Adam James, a redshirt sophomore wide receiver, and the son of former SMU Mustangs and New England Patriots running back Craig James. The suspension came after allegations that Leach treated James unfairly following a mild concussion. Leach was terminated by the university on December 30. Ruffin McNeill, the team's defensive coordinator, was named interim head coach and led the team during their appearance in the Alamo Bowl.

Previous season
With an 11–1 record in the regular season during 2008, the Red Raiders finished in a three-way tie with the Oklahoma Sooners and Texas Longhorns atop the Big 12 South. In order to break the tie, BCS standings were used to determine who would face Missouri in the conference championship game. The Sooners, ranked #2 in the BCS polls at the time, were chosen to represent the South Division in the game. The Red Raiders were selected to the Cotton Bowl Classic, losing 34–47 to Ole Miss. The 2008 team finished with an overall record of 11–2 and were ranked no. 12 in the final AP Poll.

Personnel
Coaching staff
Mike Leach – Head coach/offensive coordinator
Ruffin McNeill – Assistant head coach/defensive coordinator
Carlos Mainord – Safeties
Clay McGuire – Running backs
Brian Mitchell – Cornerbacks
Matt Moore – Offensive line
Lincoln Riley – Inside receivers
Eric Russell – Special teams Coordinator
Charlie Sadler – Defensive ends
Dennis Simmons – Wide receivers
Sonny Cumbie – Offensive graduate assistantSource:

Roster
Schedule
Game summaries
North Dakota
This game marked the first time the North Dakota Fight Sioux faced the Red Raiders on the football field making North Dakota the 127th different opponent the Red Raiders have faced. The Red Raiders won the coin toss and elected to receive the opening kick off.The opening drive ultimately ended in a touchdown and covered 64 yards in 7 plays, lasting 3:18. Barron Batch rushed three yards for the first touchdown and was followed by a successful extra point attempt by Matt Williams. The Red Raiders would go on to score one more touchdown with successful PAT in the first quarter. The Fighting Sioux scored a field goal with six seconds left in the first quarter bringing the final score for the first quarter to 14–3.The second quarter saw the longest touchdown reception of the game with a 49-yard pass by Taylor Potts to Detron Lewis, followed by a successful PAT by Matt Williams. The Fighting Sioux went on to kick a 52-yard field goal with 1:28 left in the half. The final score at the half was 21–6.The third quarter saw only one score with the Red Raider's quarterback Taylor Potts rushing 1 yard for a touchdown followed by a successful PAT. At the end of the third quarter the score was 28–6.The Fighting Sioux scored their only touchdown and successful PAT 3:09 into the final quarter. The Red Raiders scored twice in the fourth quarter with a 32-yard field goal by Matt Williams and later an 18-yard touchdown pass by Taylor Potts to Adam Jones. Matt Williams successfully kicked the last PAT of the game bringing the score to 38–13.During the game, the Red Raiders rushed for 40 yards. Taylor Potts attempted 48 passes, completing 34 for a total of 405 passing yards. Potts was also intercepted 3 times and scored 2 touchdowns. The team accrued 11 penalties for 93 yards.

Rice
This game was the first time the Rice Owls played Texas Tech Red Raiders at home since 1995. The Owls won the coin toss and elected to defer until the second half.The Red Raiders shut the Owls out in the first quarter and scored two touchdowns. The first score came 6:13 into the game by way of a 5-yard touchdown pass from Taylor Potts to Edward Britton. Matt Williams successfully kicked the PAT. The next touchdown for the Red Raiders would come with only 1:18 left in the first quarter, when Taylor Potts threw a 7-yard pass to Lyle Leong. The extra point attempt was good. At the end of the quarter the score was 14–0.The second quarter saw no scores by the Red Raiders. The Owls scored a field goal 3:33 into the quarter. The score at the half was 14–3.The third quarter proved to be more fruitful for the Red Raiders, were they once again shut out the Owls. The Red Raiders scored three touchdowns with successful PATs all within the last nine minutes of the quarter. The first came with 8:51 left in quarter when Taylor Potts threw an 8-yard pass to Lyle Leong. The next touchdown came a little over two minutes later with an 11-yard touchdown reception by Austin Zouzalik from Taylor Potts. The last touchdown was scored with 2:34 left in the quarter by Taylor Potts and Lyle Leon when Potts threw a 27-yard pass to Leon. At the end of the quarter the score was 35–3.Steven Sheffield, the Red Raiders backup quarterback, made his season debut when he came in for Taylor Potts during the final quarter after two touchdowns by the Red Raiders and a field goal by the Owls. The first Red Raider touchdown came only nine seconds into the quarter with a 34-yard touchdown reception by Eric Stephens from Taylor Potts. Matt Williams failed to convert the extra point kick. The Owls scored their only touchdown with 11:02 left on the clock. Taylor Potts last touchdown of the game came by way of a 30-yard pass to Tramain Swindall with 9:10 left in the game. The extra point attempt was good. The Red Raiders final score, and Steven Sheffield's first for the season came with 4:33 left in the game when Sheffield threw a 26-yard pass to Tramain Swindall. The PAT was converted by Matt Williams. The final score for the game was 55–10.The Texas Tech Red Raiders rushed for 52 yards and passed for 508 yards. Taylor Potts attempted 57 passes, completing 36 for 456 yards. Steven Sheffield completed 4 out of 6 passes for 52 yards. Potts threw seven touchdown passes to Sheffield's one. Neither Potts nor Sheffield threw an interception.The Owls rushed for 60 yards, passed for 197 yards, and scored 1 touchdown.

At Texas
The Texas Tech Red Raiders competed against the Texas Longhorns at Darrell K Royal-Texas Memorial Stadium on September 9, 2009. For the second year in a row the matchup was highlighted on ESPN's GameDay.The series between Texas Tech and Texas originated in Austin in 1928 and the two teams have met annually since 1960. Before the game, Texas led the series 43–15–0. The Red Raider's victory in the 2008 season was only the second time in the last 10 meetings.The Texas Tech Red Raiders received the opening kick off and returned it 28 yards. The Red Raiders opening driving ended with a 41-yard field goal by Matt Williams. On their second drive the Longhorns scored by returning a Red Raider punt 46 yards for a touchdown. The score at the end of the first quarter was 3–7.The Red Raiders did not score in the second quarter, and would hold the Longhorns to only a field goal. At the half the score was 3–10.The third quarter saw two touchdowns by both the Red Raiders and the Longhorns. The Longhorns scored a touchdown and successful PAT, on their opening drive of the second half. On the next possession the Red Raiders answered the Longhorns score with a touchdown and successful PAT of their own. The Red Raiders first touchdown of the game came by way of a 14-yard pass to Lyle Leong by Taylor Potts and the PAT was kicked by Matt Williams. After an unsuccessful on-side kick by the Red Raiders, Texas's next drive would end with a touchdown and PAT. The Red Raiders next drive proved as fruitful as their previous ending with a 10-yard touchdown pass by Potts to Leong. The final score at the end of the quarter was 17–24.The Red Raider's first two possessions of the fourth quarters ended in a turnovers. The second of which resulted in a Longhorn touchdown, their last of the game. The Red Raiders last score came on their next possession by way of a 22-yard touchdown reception by Tramain Swindall from Taylor Potts. The Longhorns would score the final points of the game with a field goal. The final score of the game was 24–34.The Longhorns rushed for 135 yards and the Longhorns' Colt McCoy attempted 34 passes completing 24 for 205 yards and was intercepted twice. The Red Raiders rushed for -6 yards and fumbled the ball once. Taylor Potts completed 46 passes out of an attempted 62 for a total of 420 yards. Potts was intercepted once.

At Houston
The Texas Tech Red Raiders faced the Houston Cougars at Robertson Stadium in Houston Texas on September 26. This non-conference game was the 28th time the two teams meet, however this was the first time the Red Raiders have played at Robertson Stadium. The Red Raiders ultimately lost the game with a final score of 28–29, dropping their record to 2–2.

New Mexico
The Red Raiders competed against the New Mexico Lobos at Jones AT&T Stadium in Lubbock, Texas, on October 3, 2009. Going into the game, the Red Raiders led the series with a record of 32–6–2. This was the first meeting of the two teams since 2004. The Red Raiders beat the Lobos with a final score of 48–28. Taylor Potts led the Raiders to a score on their first possession of the game, but he left the game with an injury in the second quarter, and Steven Sheffield came in late in the second quarter. Sheffield's 25-yard touchdown pass to Alexander Torres gave the Raiders a 14-7 halftime lead.
Sheffield threw two third-quarter touchdown passes, including a 62-yard catch and run by Harrison Jeffers, as the Raiders extended their lead to 35-7. Jeffers added two more touchdown runs in the fourth quarter to finish the scoring in Tech's 48-28 win.

Kansas State
The Red Raiders took on the Kansas State Wildcats at Jones AT&T Stadium in Lubbock, Texas, on October 10, 2009. This homecoming game was the 11th meeting of the two teams. The Red Raiders had won the previous four games against the Wildcats and had a record of 5–1 at home against the team prior to this game. The game was regionally televised on FSN. The Red Raiders beat the Wildcats with a final score of 66–14. Tech's 66 points were the most ever scored on a team coached by Bill Snyder.

At Nebraska
The Red Raiders took on the No. 15 Nebraska Cornhuskers at the Memorial Stadium in Lincoln, Nebraska on October 17, 2009. Before a crowd of more than 86,000, the Raiders jumped out in front early on a touchdown pass from Sheffield to Baron Batch.
Tech's defense then made the biggest play of the game, with defensive end Daniel Howard picking up a fumbled lateral pass and returning it 82 yards for a touchdown and a 14-0 Red Raider lead. The Raiders were up 24-3 as the defense kept Nebraska's offense in check.
The Red Raider offense was stalled in the second half, but Tech's defense continued to make big plays to keep the Huskers from making a comeback. Defensive end Brandon Sharpe had four of Tech's five sacks, and Sheffield scored on a quarterback sneak to put Tech up by three touchdowns late in the game.
With the win, the Raiders improved to 5-2 and appeared in the AP top 25 for the first and only time during the 2009 regular season at No. 21 in the nation.

Texas A&M
The Red Raiders competed against the Texas A&M Aggies at the Jones AT&T Stadium in Lubbock, Texas on October 24, 2009. Tech scored first on a 56-yard touchdown pass from Taylor Potts to Alexander Torres, and Potts hooked up with Edward Britton for another touchdown to give Tech a 14-7 lead late in the first quarter.  The Aggies then went on to score 31 straight points in the second and third quarters to pull away.
Attendance for the game was 57,733. It was the largest crowd at football game at Jones AT&T Stadium, beating the previous record of 56,333, set on November 1, 2008 in the game against Texas.

Kansas
The Red Raiders faced the Kansas Jayhawks at the Jones AT&T Stadium in Lubbock, Texas on October 31, 2009. Redshirt freshman quarterback Seth Doege got his first NCAA start because of injuries to Taylor Potts and Steven Sheffield. The Raiders didn't get on the scoreboard until the second quarter, when Doege hit Detron Lewis on a 61-yard touchdown bomb to tie the game at 7-7. Later in the second quarter, Colby Whitlock sacked Todd Reesing and forced a fumble deep in Kansas territory, which the Raiders recovered. Baron Batch scored on a 2-yard run, and the two teams went into halftime tied 14-14.
The Jayhawks took a 21-14 lead into the fourth quarter, but the Raiders put up four touchdowns to pull away. Batch scored three touchdowns on the ground, and Laron Moore added a score on a fumble recovery.

At Oklahoma State
Oklahoma
Tech came into the home game against Oklahoma seeking revenge for the 65-21 rout that the Raiders suffered in the 2008 match-up against the Sooners. The game saw a low-scoring first quarter, with Tech going up 3-0 on their first possession. Taylor Potts put Tech in position to score with passes to Lyle Leong, Edward Britton and Baron Batch to set up Matt Williams' 33-yard field goal.
The game was tied 3-3 after the first quarter, but the Raiders' offense got on track with two second-quarter touchdowns. Batch scored on a 1-yard touchdown run, set up by a 65-yard pass from Potts to Torres. Tech's defense forced a quick OU punt, and Potts then hooked up with Zouzalik on a 21-yard touchdown pass to give the Raiders a 17-6 halftime lead.
Tech's defense shut down the Sooners on Oklahoma's opening possession of the second half, and the Raiders quickly marched 91 yards for another touchdown, with Potts hitting Torres on a 24-yard scoring pass for a 24-6 lead.
Tech cornerback Laron Moore intercepted an Oklahoma pass on the Sooners' next possession, but the Raiders could not push the ball in for a touchdown, settling for a 37-yard field goal from Williams.
On Tech's next possession, the Raiders mounted an 18-play drive that chewed up more than seven minutes before scoring on a 21-yard run by Batch. Oklahoma finally scored their only touchdown on a pass from Landry Jones to Ryan Broyles, but the Raiders added a final touchdown on a 4-yard run by Eric Stephens.

Vs. Baylor
Vs. Michigan State (Valero Alamo Bowl)
Rankings
Passage 6:
2010 Baylor Bears football team
The 2010 Baylor Bears football team represented Baylor University in the 2010 NCAA Division I FBS football season. The team was coached by Art Briles and played their home games at Floyd Casey Stadium in Waco, Texas. They are members of the Big 12 Conference in the South Division. They finished the season 7–6, 4–4 in Big 12 play and were invited to the Texas Bowl, their first bowl appearance since 1994, where they were defeated by Illinois 14–38.  This season featured BU's first win over the University of Texas since 1997, and the first in Austin since 1991 (12 straight losses, the most recent 11 losses all by at least 21 points).

Schedule
Rankings
Passage 7:
2011 Northern Illinois Huskies football team
The 2011 Northern Illinois Huskies football team represented Northern Illinois University as a member of the West Division of the Mid-American Conference (MAC) during the 2011 NCAA Division I FBS football season. Led by first-year head coach Dave Doeren, the Huskies compiled an overall record of 11–3 with a mark of 7–1 in conference play, sharing the MAC West Division title with Toledo. By virtue of their head-to-head win over Toledo, Northern Illinois advance to the MAC Championship Game, where the defeated Ohio to win the program's second MAC title. The Huskies were invited to the GoDaddy.com Bowl, where they beat Arkansas State. The was season fourth consecutive in which Northern Illinois made a trip to a bowl game. The team played home games at Huskie Stadium in DeKalb, Illinois.

Schedule
Game summaries
Army
Kansas
Wisconsin
Cal Poly
Central Michigan
Kent State
Western Michigan
Buffalo
Toledo
Bowling Green
Ball State
Eastern Michigan
Ohio (2011 MAC Championship Game)
Arkansas State (2012 GoDaddy.com Bowl)
Statistics
Points by quarter
Passage 8:
2014 Northern Illinois Huskies football team
The 2014 Northern Illinois Huskies football team represented Northern Illinois University as a member of the West Division of the Mid-American Conference (MAC) during the 2014 NCAA Division I FBS football season. Led by second-year head coach Rod Carey, the Huskies compiled an overall record of 11–3 with a mark of 7–1 in conference play, sharing the MAC West Division title with Toledo. By virtue of their head-to-head win over Toledo, Northern Illinois advanced to the MAC Championship Game, where they defeated Bowling Green to win the program's fifth MAC championship. The Huskies  were invited to the Boca Raton Bowl, where they lost to Conference USA champion Marshall. The team played home games at Huskie Stadium in DeKalb, Illinois.
Northern Illinois loss to Central Michigan on October 11 snapped a 26-game home winning streak dating back to the 2009 season. The season marked the Huskies' seventh consecutive trip to a bowl game and their third consecutive bowl game loss.

Schedule
Passage 9:
2012 Washington Huskies football team
The 2012 Washington Huskies football team represented the University of Washington in the 2012 NCAA Division I FBS football season. The team, coached by fourth-year head coach Steve Sarkisian, was a member of the North Division of the Pac-12 Conference. The Huskies played their home games at CenturyLink Field in Seattle due to renovations at their normal on-campus home of Husky Stadium, also in Seattle. They finished the season 7–6, 5–4 in Pac-12 play to finish in fourth place in the North Division. They were invited to the Maaco Bowl Las Vegas where they were defeated by Boise State.

Offseason
Following the Alamo Bowl coach Sarkisian fired nearly all of his defensive coaches, deciding to retain only defensive line coach/special teams coordinator Johnny Nansen. Shortly thereafter, offensive coordinator Doug Nussmeier left the program to accept a similar position at Alabama. Sarkisian filled his defensive staff with Justin Wilcox as defensive coordinator, Peter Sirmon as linebackers coach, Tosh Lupoi as defensive line coach, and Keith Heyward as defensive backs coach. He filled the open offensive coordinator position with former Cal assistant Eric Kiesau. Junior offensive lineman Colin Porter, who had started 19 games in two seasons, was forced to retire from football due to degenerative arthritis in both of his shoulders.

Schedule
Rankings
Weekly Starters
The following players were the weekly offensive and defensive game starters.

Roster and coaching staff
Game summaries
San Diego State
LSU
Portland State
Stanford
1st quarter scoring: STAN – Jordan Williamson 31-yard field goal; WASH – Travis Coons 43-yard field goal
2nd quarter scoring:  STAN – Williamson 28-yard field goal
3rd quarter scoring:  STAN – Trent Murphy 40-yard interception return (Williamson kick); WASH – Bishop Sankey 61-yard run (Coons kick)
4th quarter scoring: WASH – Kasen Williams 35-yard pass from Keith Price (Coons kick)

Oregon
USC
Arizona
Oregon State
California
Utah
Colorado
Washington State
This was the Huskies' last loss to the Cougars until 2021.

Boise State–Maaco Bowl Las Vegas
Notes
September 4, 2012 – Jesse Callier out of the season due to a torn right knee anterior cruciate ligament; Ben Riva had a fractured forearm.
Passage 10:
2010 Washington Huskies football team
The 2010 Washington Huskies football team represented the University of Washington in the 2010 NCAA Division I FBS football season. Led by second-year head coach Steve Sarkisian, the Huskies played their home games on campus at Husky Stadium in Seattle and were members of the Pacific-10 Conference.
Washington compiled a 6–6 record in the regular season (5–4 in Pac-10, tied for third), and were invited to their first bowl game in eight years. At the Holiday Bowl in San Diego, they upset favored Nebraska 19–7 to finish on a four-game winning streak at 7–6.

Preseason
Quarterback Jake Locker, a Heisman hopeful, decided to return to Washington in 2010 as a fifth-year senior. In 2009, he passed for 2,800 yards and 21 touchdowns. Had Locker decided to enter the 2010 NFL draft after his junior year, many draft analysts predicted he would have been a top five pick.
Sophomore running back Chris Polk was primed for another 1,000-yard rushing season. In 2009, Polk had 1,113 yards, averaging 4.9 yards per carry, and scored five touchdowns. Polk surpassed 100 yards rushing in four of the final five games of the season, just missing in the season finale against California (94 yards).

Schedule
Game summaries
BYU
Syracuse
Nebraska
This will be the 8th time these teams have met for non-conference play, with the series currently tied at 3-3-1.  Nebraska owns the overall scoring edge at 146-109, and also the last victory, a 55-7 triumph in front of a sold-out home stadium crowd in 1998.  This is the start of a home and home series with the Huskies visiting Nebraska next year at Memorial Stadium.

USC
Washington upset 18th-ranked USC for the second consecutive season, winning at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum on a last-second 30-yard field goal.
Erik Folk, who hit the game-winning field goal, was named Pac-10 special teams player of the week. He went 4-for-4 field goals and two PAT attempts. Folk kicked a 22-yarder to defeat the Trojans 16-13 the previous season.

Arizona State
Oregon State
Jake Locker threw a career-high five touchdown passes, two in overtime to Jermaine Kearse, and the Huskies stopped the Beavers 2-point conversion in double overtime to keep their bowl hopes alive.
Chris Polk ran for 105 yards on 25 carries for the Huskies.
Beavers running back Jacquizz Rodgers ran for 140 yards on 32 carries and three touchdowns. He also caught four passes for 49 yards and a 10-yard TD catch in the first overtime. The Beavers were playing their first game since Rodgers' brother, James, was lost for the season because of a serious knee injury.
The game came down to the Beavers final possession in the second overtime.  On 4th down from the UW 4-yard line, Beaver quarterback Ryan Katz's pass for John Reese fell to the turf in the end zone. The Huskies stormed the field, only then to realize a late flag from back judge Johnny Jenkins was for pass interference against the Huskies' Desmond Trufant.
Jacquizz Rodgers then scored from the 2 on the next play to pull Oregon State to 35-34. Beavers coach Mike Riley called timeout and decided to go for two. But Katz's throw fell out of Joe Halahuni's hands as he was hit by linebacker Cort Dennison and Washington's celebration was on again.
Washington snapped a six-game losing streak to the Beavers.

Arizona
Stanford
Oregon
UCLA
California
Washington scored from the one-yard line without time left in the regulation to defeat Cal and took the Golden Bears out of a bowl game. Chris Polk ran the ball in. Giorgio Tavecchio kicked two field goals for Cal, 53 yards and 47 yards.
For Washington, D'Andre Goodwin scored on an 80-yard pass from Jake Locker and Erik Folk kicked a 37-yard field goal. Cal scored a touchdown in the third quarter when Cameron Jordan took a fumble into the end zone for 21 yards.

Washington State
Chris Polk rushed 29 times for a career-high 284 yards and two touchdowns.  The win gave the Huskies a 6-6 record on the season, sending Washington to a bowl game for the first time since the 2002 Sun Bowl.

Nebraska (Holiday Bowl)
This was the second time this season that the Huskies played Nebraska, with the first meeting ending in a 56-21 win for the Cornhuskers. Washington shocked Nebraska despite a poor game from Jake Locker.

Rankings
Roster
Game starters
The follow players were the game starters.
% - started as third or fourth wide receiver ^ - started as second tight end

Awards and honors
October 4 - Erik Folk, who hit a 32-yard game-winning field goal to beat the 18th-ranked Trojans, was named Pac-10 Special Teams player of the week.
December 1 - Linebacker Mason Foster, the Pac-10 conference's leading tackler, was named a first-team all-American by Scout.com
December 6 - Tailback Chris Polk named Pac-10 Offensive Player of the Week 
December 7 - Linebacker Mason Foster was again awarded for his outstanding performance during the 2010 season when he was named to the 2010 All-Pac-10 first team
December 8 - For the second time this season standout Husky Mason Foster was named a first-team all-American, this time by Rivals.com
December 9 - Junior wide receiver Jermaine Kearse was named to the Rivals.com All-Pac-10 first-team
December 20 - Senior QB Jake Locker was named honorable mention all-America by Pro Football Weekly

NFL draft
Two Huskies were selected in the 2011 NFL draft, which lasted seven rounds (254 selections).

Locker was the first Husky selected in the first round in seven years.