Passage 1:
Blood on the Dance Floor (band)
Blood on the Dance Floor was an American electronic music group from Orlando, Florida, formed in 2006. The group's longest standing lineup, from 2009 to 2016, consisted of Jesus David Torres also known as Dahvie Vanity (born 1984) and Jayy Von Monroe (born 1991). The group released nine studio albums before breaking up in 2016 following Von Monroe's departure. It was reformed by Vanity the following year, initially with Fallon Vendetta. After Vendetta's departure, Vanity became the sole member of the group. Since 2019, Vanity has performed under the name Kawaii Monster and most recently The Most Vivid Nightmares.

History
After falling out as a touring musician with multiple local musical acts in the Orlando, Florida area during 2006, Jesus David Torres, going by the moniker "Dahvie Vanity", formed a musical group with friends Matty "M" Malaret, Christopher Mongillo, and Rebecca Fugate. Initially the group was considered a joke, but developed into Blood on the Dance Floor in the summer of 2007. Malaret left the group in late 2007 before the group's self-released first album, Let's Start a Riot, in April 2008. Citing the inability to tour, Mongillo and Fugate left the band as well shortly thereafter.During the recording of their second album, It's Hard to be a Diamond in a Rhinestone World, the band was picked up by producer and writer Rusty Wilmot. During the recording of this album, Garrett Marshal McLaughlin (Garrett Ecstasy) was recruited to do backup vocals and screaming. The CD was self-released in October 2008. Only 300 copies were made.Vanity and Ecstasy recorded the singles "Siq With a Q" and "Suicide Club" as a duo in 2008, and released three extended plays over the first half of 2009, I Scream I Scream, OMFG Sneak Peak, and Extended Play. The duo embarked on the OMFG Tour with other local bands Electric Valentine, Weston Buck, The Greenlight District, and The Crush in promotion of their upcoming album then titled OMFG.During the OMFG tour on a tour date in the state of Colorado, Vanity was arrested for sexual assault but was ultimately not criminally charged due to a lack of evidence and the tour continued with Ecstasy performing the remainder of the shows without Vanity. Ecstasy then left the band after accusing Vanity of being a sexual predator and was replaced by Jeremy Brian Griffis, known by his stage name "Jayy Von Monroe". Along with Von Monroe, Vanity and the group's new drummer and rapper, Nick "Nasty" Wenzel, released "Horrifically Delicious".
Many of the songs originally recorded with Ecstasy intended for the upcoming album OMFG were re-recorded with new vocals by Von Monroe. The previous concept of the OMFG album was scrapped, and rebranded as EPIC, set for release in 2010. The band went on tour over spring and summer 2010 to promote the release of Epic. With Jeffree Star they recorded three songs for that album. The collaborations with Jeffree Star were short lived because like former member Garrett Ecstasy, Star had also accused Vanity of being a pedophile and a predator, claiming to have witnessed questionable behavior. Star later chose to go back on his accusations and sweep what he claimed to have seen under the rug due to feeling like the band was being victimized. He was then featured on their 2014 single "Poison Apple", from the album Bitchcraft. As with the previous conflict with Garrett, the three singles featuring Jeffree's vocals were re-recorded with vocals by Von Monroe, and the original tracks were not featured on the final album.
In October 2010, the album Epic charted No. 5 on the dance/electronic Billboard chart. The band headlined the Epic Tour and the Epic Tour Part II in support of the album.Even before the release of Epic, recording began for Blood on the Dance Floor's fourth album, All the Rage!!. The duo collaborated with several artists for the album, including Lady Nogrady, JJ Demon, and Nick Nasty. The album was preceded by several singles to promote the release, including "Yo Ho", and "P.L.U.R.", and "Bewitched" which became the band's biggest (and only) most well known song. The band later embarked on Warped Tour 2011 in June 2011, and released the album while on tour.
A music video for their hit single from the album, "Bewitched", featured Nicole "Lady" Nogrady, who later said that she felt disrespected by the band during production of the album as well as on the music video, and found herself having to confront the band directly in order for her name to appear on the credits of her work with them. The song was subsequently performed by other female vocalists in place of Nogrady at live shows, and was re-recorded with vocals by Haley Rose for their 2013 acoustic album Blood Unplugged.
The album peaked at No. 13 on the Billboard Top Electronic Albums chart. At the end of 2011, the duo headlined the All the Rage Tour and was planning the 'Tis the Season to be Killing Tour.In celebration of BOTDF's fourth anniversary, a digital compilation album entitled The Legend of Blood on the Dance Floor was set to be released on Halloween. The compilation's release date was pushed back, originally planned to be released as a CD, it was released as a SoundCloud playlist instead. The compilation features remastered versions of songs from the band's first four albums.
Blood on the Dance Floor's fifth album, Evolution, was released on June 19, 2012 along with a deluxe edition that featured acoustic versions of two songs. Two music videos and four singles were released from the album.
The album featured tracks in collaboration with Haley Rose, Amelia Arsenic, Shawn Brandon, Joel Madden of the band Good Charlotte, Elena Vladimirova, and Deuce.As a thank you to their fans they released the three-song free EP Clubbed to Death! on June 20, 2012, for free through an app on Facebook. Their sixth EP, The Anthem of the Outcast, was released on October 30, 2012.Rumors of a breakup in 2013 were proven to be a hoax. Bad Blood was slated for release in September 2013. On February 18, 2013, the lead single "I Refuse to Sink! (Fuck the Fame)" was released, followed by the second single, "Crucified by Your Lies", and a third, "Something Grimm", on July 2, 2013.Andrew "Drew" Apathy joined in early 2014, and a new album, Bitchcraft, was released in June 2014. Their single "We're Takin over!" featuring Deuce was released February 7.Blood on the Dance Floor released their first single off their EP Cruel Pornography: "The Sexorcist". In August, they released their new project and started planning the "Reign of Blood" tour. On February 14, 2016, the band released the single "Safe Word" on iTunes.Mid-2016 marked the end of producing and co-writing by Rusty Wilmot (2008–2016).In April 2016, Blood on the Dance Floor announced a 24-date tour with Steven Joseph and BrokenCYDE. On August 17, BOTDF released their September 30-scheduled album Scissors on Apple Music.On September 14, 2016, Dahvie Vanity said that the group would be disbanding after one final tour as a result of Jayy's departure earlier that month. For a while afterwards, Vanity created and worked on a new project called Sinners Are Winners, releasing an EP titled For Beginners and full-length The Invocation. Jayy Von Monroe also released a statement on his departure from the band after leaving stating that he was not paid for his time for the band and was forced to go on tour without treatment after his HIV diagnosis. Vanity denied these allegations in a video.In April 2017, Vanity announced that there would be a new member, and that Blood on the Dance Floor would be returning on May 5 of that year without Jayy Von Monroe. In May 2017, it was revealed that Dahvie's girlfriend, Fallon Vendetta, had temporarily joined Blood on the Dance Floor. With Vendetta, they released the singles "Resurrection Spell", "Love Like Voodoo", "Six Feet Under", "Yo Ho 2 (Pirate's Life)", "Ghosting" and "Destroy". Their album Kawaii Monster was released on October 31, 2017. Kawaii Monster pre-orders included a second disc, a remastered edition of Let's Start a Riot. The band also released an exclusive EP: You Are the Heart. In 2018, they released Haunted, followed by Cinema Erotica and You Are the Heart. Vendetta departed the group shortly afterward, leaving Vanity as the sole remaining member of the group.
In 2019, shortly after the band's second break up, Vanity started a new project: Kawaii Monster. He released the songs "From Heaven to Hell", "Total Nightmare", "Dear Best Friend", "It's a Sunny Place for Shady People", "I Am With You", "Finding Blessings in Dark Places", "The Violet Flame", "It's All Just a Dream" and "Rage Against the Dying Light".After a five-month break from making music, Vanity rebranded himself again as "The Most Vivid Nightmares" and released "Drowning in the Darkness" on November 13, 2020. He later released a second single: "Love Forever True". On January 1, 2021, Vanity released a new version of Blood on the Dance Floor's "Bewitched" as "Bewitched Reimagined" featuring singer Sammy Beare. As of 2016, Jayy Von Monroe has continued to work as a drag monster under the name "The Dahli" and Vanity has continued to release music and merchandise by himself under both "The Most Vivid Nightmares" and "Dark Arts Official".

Musical style and influences
The group's style has been described as having hypersexual lyrics combined with electronica or electronic music, but also heavily incorporates electropop, dance-pop, and crunkcore.Vanity stated in an interview that Jeffree Star is a huge influence on Blood on the Dance Floor. Vanity also stated that he was inspired by Marilyn Manson in the past.

Sexual assault allegations against Dahvie Vanity
Since the allegations first surfaced in 2009, at least 21 women have made sexual assault, child molestation, and rape allegations against Vanity. Former bandmates Garrett Ecstasy, who left the band in 2009, and Jayy Von Monroe, who left in 2016, have described Vanity as a sexual predator. In an interview with television journalist Chris Hansen, Jayy Von Monroe accused Vanity of abuse as well, stating that Vanity forced him to tour without his HIV medication which caused him to nearly contract AIDS. Von Monroe also stated that he later made a full recovery after leaving the band in 2016. Jeffree Star and New Years Day members Ash Costello and Nikki Misery have stated that they observed Vanity engage in questionable or illegal sexual behavior during one of the Vans Warped Tours and also during the "All the Rage Tour 2012" in support of their third studio album of the same name around the early 2010s. Many of the accusers were underage during the alleged attacks. In response to the allegations, Combichrist removed Blood on the Dance Floor from their tour in 2014. Merchandising website Big Cartel removed the band's products in 2018 in response to the allegations, while Spotify and Google Play removed the band's music in April 2019 for violating their prohibited content policies against hate speech. Vanity has responded to the accusations on multiple occasions, usually with denial, threats or evasion.In early 2020, Hansen announced an investigation on Vanity, including having multiple interviews with those who claim Vanity abused or raped them. The FBI have confirmed that they are also currently investigating the allegations against Vanity.

Members
Final line-up

Dahvie Vanity – lead vocals, guitar, keyboards, programming (2006–2016, 2017–2019)Former members

Touring musicians

Timeline

Discography
Albums as Blood on the Dance Floor
Let's Start a Riot (2008)
It's Hard to Be a Diamond in a Rhinestone World (2008)
Epic (2010)
All the Rage!! (2011)
Evolution (2012)
Bad Blood (2013)
Bitchcraft (2014)
Scissors (2016)
Kawaii Monster (2017)
Haunted (2018)
Cinema Erotica (2018)
You Are the Heart (2018)
Hollywood Death Star (2019)

Albums as Master of Death
Master of Death (2015)

Albums as Sinners Are Winners
For Beginners (2016)
The Invocation (2017)

Albums as Kawaii Monster
Poison Love (2019)
Love from Hell (2019)
The Balance (2020)
Traptendo (2022)

Albums as The Most Vivid Nightmares
Love Like Starlight (2022)
Torture Garden (2023)
Passage 2:
The Hundred in the Hands (album)
The Hundred in the Hands is the eponymous debut studio album by American electronic music duo The Hundred in the Hands, released on September 11, 2010 by Warp. The album received generally favorable reviews, with a Metacritic score of 74 out of 100, based on 13 reviews. In January 2011, the album earned the duo a nomination in the Pop/Rock category at The 10th Annual Independent Music Awards. The song "Pigeons" was used in the third episode of the fifth season of Gossip Girl, titled "The Jewel of Denial" and originally aired October 10, 2011.

Track listing
Notes^a  signifies an additional producer

Personnel
Credits adapted from the liner notes of The Hundred in the Hands.
The Hundred in the HandsThe Hundred in the Hands – production (all tracks); engineering (tracks 2, 3, 5, 8, 11); additional engineering (tracks 6, 10)
Eleanore Everdell – vocals, keyboards, synthesizer
Jason Friedman – bass, guitar, programmingAdditional personnelAlex Aldi – engineering (tracks 4, 9, 10); mixing (tracks 9, 10); programming (track 9)
Eric Broucek – engineering, production (tracks 6, 7); mixing (tracks 2, 3, 6, 7); additional engineering (tracks 2, 3); additional programming (tracks 2, 3, 6)
Heather Culp – photography
Pete Hofmann – mixing (tracks 1, 3, 4, 8, 11)
Jacques Renault – additional production, engineering (track 1); additional programming (tracks 1, 7); additional engineering, production (track 7)
Richard X – additional programming, production (tracks 1, 4, 5, 8); engineering (track 1); additional engineering (tracks 4, 5, 8); additional production (track 11)
Vito Roccoforte – live drums (tracks 1, 2, 4, 5, 8)
Noel Summerville – mastering
Utters – additional engineering, additional production, additional programming (track 7)
Chris Zane – engineering (tracks 4, 9, 10); live drums, mixing, production (tracks 9, 10); programming (track 9)

Release history
Passage 3:
The M Machine
The M Machine is an American electronic music duo from San Francisco, California, United States, formed in 2011 and currently consisting of Ben Swardlick and Eric Luttrell. They have released four EPs, a single and two remix collections on Skrillex's label Owsla. The group has reached the overall #1 slot on Beatport on multiple occasions.

Music career
The group originally went by the moniker Pance Party. They initially had viral success with a teaser video for their planned full-length album Metropolis, which later became split into two EPs. Their double A-side "Promise Me A Rose Garden" / "Glow" was released on Skrillex's label OWSLA in 2011, becoming the #1 Electro House release on Beatport, and #2 overall release for an entire week. "Promise Me A Rose Garden" was named Hottest Record in the World on October 20, 2011, by Zane Lowe on BBC Radio 1.In April 2012, the group released Metropolis Pt. I, the first installment of their two-part concept album. Metropolis Pt. I premiered online in Rolling Stone magazine, followed by a worldwide release the next day, reaching number one on the Beatport overall chart. Metropolis Pt. II was released February 19, 2013 on Owsla to critical acclaim, also reaching the number one overall spot on Beatport.
Inspired by Fritz Lang's influential film Metropolis, together the two EPs tell the story of the dystopian city of Metropolis. A text/illustrated version of the story is also available in the form of digital liner notes on the band's website. The Metropolis saga was completed with the release of Metropolis Remixed, a revamped retrospective of the previous two EPs that featured remixes from Kill The Noise, Digitalism, Robotaki, and more.
Also in January 2014, the group released the single "Superflat" on OWSLA, followed by the Just Like EP in November of that year. Just Like signaled a change in direction as the group moved towards more underground, club-oriented sound. A remix pack, Just Like Remixes was released in April 2015 featuring Manila Killa, CRNKN, and Worthy among others.
On January 28, 2015, Andy announced his departure from the group to pursue his interest in programming and technology, making the former trio a duo.On February 23, 2017, they released their debut album Glare on Mad Zoo.
The group has toured in support of acts including Skrillex, Porter Robinson, The Glitch Mob, Madeon, Markus Schulz, and more, in addition to a slew of their own headline runs. They have also played premier music festivals including Ultra Music Festival, Electric Daisy Carnival, Holy Ship!, Hard Summer, Outside Lands, South by Southwest, TomorrowWorld, Mysteryland, Electric Zoo and Shambhala.
The group has contributed official remixes for Bruno Mars, Passion Pit, Empire of the Sun, Dog Blood, Madeon, Mat Zo, Arty, Datsik & Kill The Noise.

Discography
Studio albums
EPs
Singles
Other appearances
Remixes
Passage 4:
Setting Fires (song)
"Setting Fires" is a song by American DJ duo the Chainsmokers, released as the final single from the duo's second extended play, Collage (2016). It features the vocal collaboration of American electronic music duo Xylø. The song was written by Melanie Fontana, Jon Asher and Andrew Taggart.  "Setting Fires" was released on November 4, 2016, through Disruptor Records and Columbia Records.

Composition
The song is written in the key of G♯ minor with a common time tempo of 105 beats per minute. Xylø's vocals span from F♯3 to A♯5 in the song.

Chart performance
"Setting Fires" debuted and peaked at number 71 on the US Billboard Hot 100 issued for November 26, 2016. The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) certified the song Gold, which denotes 500,000 units based on sales and track-equivalent on-demand streams. On the Hot Dance/Electronic Songs chart, it entered at number eight and spent 20 weeks in total. "Setting Fires" peaked at number 35 on the Canadian Hot 100 and was certified Gold by Music Canada. The song reached number 50 in Australia and was certified Platinum. It charted within the top 40 of national record charts, at number 26 in Scotland, and number 31 in Czech Republic.

Track listing
Personnel
Credits adapted from the EP liner notes, Collage (2016).
Jordan "DJ Swivel" Young – producer, mixing engineer, recording engineer
The Chainsmokers – producer, associated performer
Xylø – associated performer
Melanie Fontana – background vocals
Chris Gehringer – mastering engineer

Charts
Weekly charts
Year-end charts
Certifications
Passage 5:
In Return (Odesza album)
In Return is the second album by American electronic music duo Odesza, released on September 9, 2014 through Counter and Ninja Tune. It is the major label debut of the electronic duo after the release of their self-released debut album Summer's Gone two years prior and follows up that album.
The album debuted atop the Top Dance/Electronic Albums chart and was positively received by critics.
The "Say My Name" track (instrumental version) used in Windows 10 Promotional and Retail Demo Video.

Background and composition
During production, Mills and Knight were more open to experimentation, favoring more of a singer-songwriter approach with a greater focus on lyrical content. The result is a more vocally driven album, contrasting with their previous sample-based releases. Coming from a classically trained background, Knight was more concerned of the technicality of the music, while Mills focused on the production side. Knight's interest in pop and dance music influenced Mill's tastes, which contributed to the direction of the album. The track "It's Only" was distinguished by the duo as "the most mature growth [on the album]" due to its more unconventional production.The album's name is a reference to the duo's appreciation of returning home after a long period of touring.In Return was released a few weeks earlier than intended due to fan anticipation. On September 18, 2015, the deluxe edition of the album was released containing live and instrumental tracks from the standard edition album, in addition to the single "Light" featuring Little Dragon.

Critical reception
In Return received positive reviews from critics. David Jeffries from AllMusic gave the album a rating of 4 out of 5, calling the album a "humble crowd-pleaser" while praising its variety. Renowned for Sound's Angus Fitz-Bugden gave a rating of 4/5, complimenting the album's ambience and production.

Accolades
In Return was nominated for Top Dance/Electronic Album at the 2016 Billboard Music Awards. The RAC remix of "Say My Name" was also nominated for Best Remixed Recording, Non-Classical at the 58th Annual Grammy Awards.

Commercial performance
In Return debuted at number 1 on the Top Dance/Electronic Albums chart, selling 6,000 album-equivalent units in the first week. The album also debuted and peaked at number 42 on the Billboard 200.

Track listing
Charts
Decade-end charts
Passage 6:
Angelspit
Angelspit is an electronic music band originally from Sydney, Australia, and currently based in Chicago, United States. The band was formed in 2004 by vocalists/synthesists Destroyx (Amelia Tan) and ZooG (Karl Learmont). The band's music combines stylistic elements of horror, punk, pop and electronic music. Their work contains imagery revolving around medical experiments and grotesque societies. Angelspit has toured with Angel Theory, Ayria, Ikon, KMFDM, Tankt and The Crüxshadows, and have also shared the stage with bands such as The Sisters of Mercy, Nitzer Ebb, Skinny Puppy and Front Line Assembly. They performed with Lords of Acid during a 22-date U.S. tour in March 2011 and toured the United States with Blood on the Dance Floor in October 2011.

History
Karl Learmont (ZooG) and Amelia Tan (Destroyx) met on an online zine forum. They shared an interest in zines and started the distro Vox Populis in 2002. They then started making zines for themselves which became the lyrical inspiration for releases to follow. Angelspit was formed in 2003, and the duo then self-released their debut EP, Nurse Grenade on 3 October 2004.
The band self-released their debut studio album, Krankhaus on 6 June 2006, and re-released it on 30 January 2007 with a bonus remix album, entitled Surgically Atoned, and in the US on Dancing Ferret Discs. The album featured remixes by Combichrist and Ego Likeness. A video for "Vena Cava" was released on 22 August 2007. The band toured Australia, the US and Europe where they lived in Berlin to record their second studio album, Blood Death Ivory.
The band released their second studio album, Blood Death Ivory on 11 June 2008. The album was written and recorded between 2006 and 2008. Again, the band continued to tour the new material around Europe and the USA. They released their debut remix album Black Kingdom Red Kingdom on 15 May 2009. Around this time the band began to produce "Blipverts", short video blogs and tutorials on various topics, including the production of the band's third studio album.
The band released their third studio album, Hideous and Perfect on 9 September 2009. A video for "Fuck the Revolution" was released on 28 September 2009. They released their second remix album Larva Pupa Tank Coffin on 10 October 2010. Larva Pupa Tank Coffin includes 4 brand new Angelspit tracks and remixes by the band themselves as well as other artists. A video for the remix of "Sleep Now" was released on 2 October 2010. They released their third remix album, Carbon Beauty on 8 March 2011. This new remix album contains 3 new tracks as well as 10 remixes of tracks from the Hideous and Perfect album. A video for "Toxic Girl" was released on 13 April 2011, and a video for "Like It? Lick It!" was released on 27 July 2011.
On 15 April 2011, Angelspit announced the addition of three new members: guitarist Valerie Gentile (Black Tape for a Blue Girl, The Crüxshadows), drummer Chris Kling (Hanzel und Gretyl, Mortiis) and videojammer The Liar. The new line-up of Angelspit released their fourth studio album, Hello My Name Is on 11 October 2011. Matt James replaced Chris Kling in early 2012, and former Crüxshadows guitarist George Bikos filled in for Valerie Gentile on the band's 2012 tour. On 23 March 2014, Angelspit announced DestroyX was taking time off to focus on her other projects and would be re-joining Angelspit on future recordings. She has now started a solo career under the name Amelia Arsenic.
Angelspit, now a four-piece led by ZooG (now known as Zoog Von Rock), has released two further albums - Cult of Fake in 2016 and Black Dog Bite in 2017 - while continuing to run their label Black Pill Red Pill. Zoog has also started a Patreon where he offers tips to aspiring musicians.

Band members
Current members
Zoog Von Rock (formerly ZooG) – vocals, programming (2003–present)
The Liar – video manipulation (2010–Present)
Matt Slegel – guitars, bass guitar (2017–present; live contributor: 2016)
Kitsu Noir – drums (2017–present)

Former members
Amelia Arsenic (formerly Destroyx) – vocals (2003–13)
Chris Kling – drums (2011–12; session musician: 2014)
Valerie Gentile – guitars, bass guitar (2011–2012)
George Bikos – guitars, bass guitar (2012–16; session musician: 2008, 2009, 2017)
Nick Delavega – programming, keyboards (2016; live contributor: 2015)
AJ Gapsevic – guitars, bass guitar (2016)
Lorelei – vocals (2016)

Live contributors
Peter Crane – keyboards (2007)
Roberto Massaglia – keyboards (2007)
John Von Ahlen – engineer (2007)
Matt James – drums (2012)
Miss Ballistic – vocals (2013; session musician: 2014)
Dita von Cheats – synthesizer (2013)

Session musicians
Graeme Charles Kent – guitars, bass guitar (2004–11, 2017)
Bradley R. Bills – drums (2014)
Alex Weaver – vocals (2014)

Timeline
Discography
Studio albums
Live albums
Compilation albums
Remix albums
Extended plays
Singles
Video albums
Music videos
Passage 7:
Ammunition (Krewella EP)
Ammunition is the third extended play by American electronic dance music band Krewella. It was released on May 20, 2016 by Columbia Records on streaming and digital download music services. Ammunition was preceded by the release of the single "Beggars", on April 28, 2016, shortly followed by the promotional single "Broken Record", which was released on May 10, 2016. It is a six-track extended play, and the duo's first major release since the departure of former member Kris Trindl. It is also their first major release since their debut album Get Wet.

Background
Just over a year after the release of their debut album "Get Wet" in 2013, Kris Trindl publicly announced a lawsuit, suing them $5 million for against Yasmine and Jahan Yousaf claiming they kicked him out of Krewella to gain high profits after he sobered up out of his alcohol addiction. The sisters then followed up with a counter lawsuit which stated "While on stage, Kris would generally stand to the side of Jahan and Yasmine and pump his arms, while pretending to DJ; he was onstage primarily for the sake of image." "Because Kris did not know how to DJ, he only had two effect buttons." In August 2015 a settlement was reached, but the verdicts were not released to the public. The situation eventually led to Deadmau5 siding with Kris, causing Krewella to receive a large amount of internet hatred.The band announced in 2015 that they had been working on a new extended play, intended to be completed in time for a 2016 tour. From that time out prior to the release there were many snippets of upcoming music including the songs "Broken Record", "Helter Skelter", "Beggars" (with Diskord), "Louder Than Bombs", "Friends", "Superstar" (which  featured Pegboard Nerds and NGHTMRE) and "Marchin On". Only three of them made the final track listing, with "Superstar" later being released as a non-album single.
Before the liberation of the EP, two songs were released: "Say Goodbye" on November 24, 2014 and "Somewhere to Run" on March 25, 2015 respectively.

Singles
"Beggars" was released as the lead single from the EP on April 28, 2016, which featured electronic duo Diskord. The music video was released on the same day.

Promotional singles
"Broken Record" was teased before the release of the extended play on May 10, 2016. A music video was later released on June 8, 2016 as a part of their celebrations for the day in which the duo (at the time a trio) abandoned other studies to become full-time musicians.

Promotion
On April 29, 2016 Krewella released a 30-second video of Yasmine rapping to the tune of Kanye West's song "I Love Kanye" stating "F**k tomorrow, we'll show you the new Krewella" prior to the release of the single "Beggars" with Diskord. The music video for the song was released at the same time.On the last few days before the release, teasers for "Surrender the Throne", "Marching On", "Beggars", "Broken Record", "Ammunition", and "Can't Forget You" were released, with the latter being released one day before Ammunition's release.Krewella are going on a headline tour later in 2016, set to span across 16 dates in North America and Canada and will feature new music and their entire live band.

Commercial performance
On the week ending June 11, 2016 Ammunition reached no. 2 on the Billboard Top Dance/Electronic Albums chart and sold 3,000 copies in its debut week. Its lead single, Beggars reached No.24 on the top Dance/Electronic Digital Songs chart and No.33 on the Hot Dance/Electronic Song chart.

Track listing
Charts
Passage 8:
Streets of Gold
Streets of Gold is the third studio album by American electronic music duo 3OH!3. It was released on June 29, 2010 in the United States and July 19, 2010 in the United Kingdom. The album debuted at number seven on the US Billboard 200, selling 41,000 copies in its first week. Upon its release, Streets of Gold received generally mixed reviews from most music critics.

Background
3OH!3 released a video for the song "House Party" on April 8 as a teaser for Streets of Gold. The group hired Andrew W.K. to do a rock remix of "House Party", which was released virally on Friday April 16, 2010. 3OH!3 had met Andrew W.K. at a house party in Memphis, Tennessee. First single, "My First Kiss" was released on their website at 3:03 PM EST May 3. and digitally at midnight on May 4. On May 18, 2010, the song "Touchin' on My" was released exclusively on iTunes Store. 3OH!3 planned to release a new song every other Tuesday up to the release of the album. "Déjà Vu" was released on June 1, and "Double Vision" was released on June 15. On June 8, the song "I Can Do Anything" was released to members only on the 3OH!3 website.
The song "I Know How To Say" was used in a trailer for the animated Disney film Mars Needs Moms. An excerpt from the instrumental version of the song can be heard on the official Mars Needs Moms website.

Critical reception
The album received mixed reviews from most music critics. At Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the album has received an average score of 48, based on 11 reviews, which indicates "generally mixed or average reviews". AllMusic writer David Jeffries noted "over-the-top performances" and stated "3OH!3 are nothing if not loud and shameless, so if you expect end-to-end excellence from their albums, you’ve got a lot to learn about cheap thrills". Entertainment Weekly's Leah Greenblatt gave the album a C+ rating and wrote that "Streets of Gold's beats still sound garage-sale-Casio cheap, but the album yields several doofy, affable sing-alongs". Jon Caramanica of The New York Times complimented its incorporation of hip hop, rock, and electro-pop styles and described it as "an oppressive and convincing wall of sounds". Alternative Press gave the album 4 out of 5 stars and wrote that it "sweeps across a broad range of stylistic tones, maintaining levity while dabbling in comparably serious musical pursuits". The Washington Post's Sean Fennessey called 3OH!3 "cheeky stylists with quips that frequently devolve into misogyny" and noted "little depth", but concluded "Still, this is a group that excels when no one is listening to what they're saying, only to how they sound, which is always committed and fearlessly grand".In contrast, BBC Online's Fraser McAlpine panned the album's lyrics and called it "dumb for sure, but no fun whatsoever". Ben Weisz of MusicOMH gave it 2 out of 5 stars and stated "the lyrics are generally unimaginative, sacrificing any shred of credibility to chase the cheap rhyme". Stacey Anderson of Spin criticized the songs' "witticisms" and noted "brutish synths and hammy bleats". Giving it 1 out of 5 stars, Jody Rosen of Rolling Stone called it "grim stuff – a soundtrack for beer-pong tournaments" and panned its formula of "dopey electro rock bolstering 'raps' about drinking... and getting girls to 'touch on' their privates". NME's Mark Beaumont gave the album a 0/10 rating and called 3OH!3 "electro-hip-pop white bread American scum", stating "If Streets Of Gold's lyrics are unlikely to bother the Nobel committee, musically 3OH!3 are a boyband pendulum: the threat of the latter tamed and glossed by the cash-hungry urge to be the former".

Commercial performance
Streets of Gold debuted at number seven on the Billboard 200 with 41,000 copies sold in its first week. The album has sold more than 100,000 copies in US.

Track listing
Personnel
Credits for Streets of Gold adapted from AllMusic.

Musicians
Production
Charts
Passage 9:
Harnessed the Storm
Harnessed the Storm is the second studio album by American electronic music duo Drexciya. It was released on Tresor in 2002. Designed as the first of seven conceptually linked albums that the duo produced over the course of a single year, it is the only one credited to Drexciya. Different aliases were used for the others.

Critical reception
Philip Downey of Exclaim! described Harnessed the Storm as "forward-looking, vocal-less, sci-fi stuff". Andy Battaglia of The A.V. Club felt that Drexciya "still creates some of the most visionary electro around", but concluded that the album's "Detroit-style formalism" sounds "too old-fashioned to sneak the future into the past".In 2010, Resident Advisor placed Harnessed the Storm at number 97 on its list of the "Top 100 Albums of the 2000s". In 2017, Pitchfork placed it at number 11 on its list of "The 50 Best IDM Albums of All Time".

Track listing
Passage 10:
White Noise (Disclosure song)
"White Noise" is a song by British electronic music duo Disclosure, featuring vocals from electronic music duo AlunaGeorge. It was released as a digital download in the United Kingdom on 1 February 2013. The song peaked at number two on the UK Singles Chart. The track is the second single from the duo's debut studio album, Settle (2013). The song was written by Howard Lawrence, Guy Lawrence, Aluna Francis, George Reid and James Napier.

Reception
Critical reception
The track was met with very positive reviews upon its release. Pitchfork labeled it "Best New Music". Robert Copsey of Digital Spy gave the song a positive review stating:

For their latest track 'White Noise' they've hooked up with trendy newbies AlunaGeorge – a savvy collaboration that's been carefully timed following their shared domination of last month's ones-to-watch lists. That's not to say it sounds forced; Disclosure's humming bassline, swirling synths and addictive clubby beeps are perfectly tailored to Aluna's pitched vocal. The result strikes a rarely-heard balance between hipster-friendly and potential chart-dominator. .

Freddie Holmes of The Underclassed gave the track a mixed review, stating that "It's a great track nonetheless, especially to someone that hasn't heard any of either group's previous material, but my superfan standpoint has rendered me to be overly critical".Billboard named it the eighth greatest song of 2013. The website wrote about the song, "In a year in which Disclosure and AlunaGeorge watched their audiences and cultural cache grow exponentially, the two duos' wiry, icy-cool collaboration represented a high point for each".

Commercial performance
The song entered at number 28 on the UK Singles Chart. The following week, it climbed 26 places to number two on the chart, beaten to the top by "Thrift Shop" by Macklemore & Ryan Lewis, featuring Wanz.

Live performances
At the 2014 BRIT Awards, Disclosure and Lorde performed an electro version of Lorde's song "Royals", which transitioned into "White Noise", for which AlunaGeorge appeared on stage. The "Royals/White Noise" performance was released at iTunes Stores by the BRIT Awards on 19 February 2014; proceeds from its sales went to the charity War Child.

Music video
The song's music video has a security guard and he starts in an abandoned warehouse.

Track listings
Digital download"White Noise" (featuring AlunaGeorge) – 5:40BRITs performance digital download"Royals / White Noise" – 4:59

Charts and certifications
Release history