Passage 1:
I Hate Everything About You
"I Hate Everything About You" is the debut single by Canadian rock band Three Days Grace, from their debut self-titled album. One of the band's signature songs, it peaked at number 55 on the US Billboard Hot 100, number four on the Mainstream Rock Tracks chart and number two on the Modern Rock Tracks chart. It was the 9th best performing song of the decade on the Modern Rock Tracks chart, and the 153rd best performing song of all time on the Alternative Songs chart. Despite not being one of their number one hits on either of the two charts, it is the band's longest running song on both the Modern Rock chart at 45 weeks, and the Mainstream Rock chart at 46 weeks.

Background
Adam Gontier said of the track:

The song is pretty blunt you know? It's to the point. It's about realizing there's something in your life you're wasting time on. I think everybody, even in this band and a lot of other people have felt that way before at one point or another in their life. Whether it's a person, a relationship whatever it is, you're just wasting time on it. The song is a realization of that.
Written by Gontier and produced by Gavin Brown, the theme of the song deals with love–hate relationships.

Critical reception
Heather Phares of AllMusic called the song "one of the better alt-metal/modern rock singles in recent memory." She remarked, "At first, the song seems almost stupidly simple, both lyrically and musically. However, the controlled fury of the choruses and the ambivalent verses make the song a surprisingly smart and concise anthem for anyone stuck in a baffling relationship." She also stated, "I Hate Everything About You's frustrated explosions and passive-aggressive recriminations eerily simulate the trajectory of an ill-fated couple."

Music video
The music video starts zoomed in towards several things, such as a TV producing static, a picture frame, and an ash tray, and then transitions towards Adam Gontier who starts singing. The video shows three teenagers going through a disastrous moment in their lives. One shows a young boy who finds his girlfriend cheating on him in the alleyway, kissing another guy. He is spying on them in his car. The second teenager is a young girl, who just broke up with her boyfriend, and the last is a boy who is being abused by his alcoholic father. Towards the end they are all seen smashing items into a hill. The young boy spying on his cheating girlfriend whips a portrait of a picture of them, smashing it to pieces. The second teenager is seen smashing her notebook of love notes and miscellaneous love items with her ex-boyfriend into the hill. The last boy, who is suffering child abuse, throws his drunken father's alcohol into the hill.
In the video, the word "hit" in "after every hit we take" is censored, due to "hit" being slang for drug use. The video was photographed by cinematographer Steve Gainer, and directed by Scott Winig.

Accolades
In 2004, the song was nominated for the "Best Rock Video" and "People's Choice: Favourite Canadian Group" at the MuchMusic Video Awards and won "Producer of the Year" at the Juno Awards. In August 2007, the single won a BDS Spin Award based on the 300,000 spins it received.

Track listings
Charts
Certifications
Release history
Use in video games
NASCAR Thunder 2004 by EA Sports.
Karaoke Revolution Volume 2 singalong game.
It is playable with either a real guitar or bass guitar in Rocksmith as DLC.
The song was made available to download on March 13, 2012, for play in Rock Band 3 Basic and PRO mode utilizing a real guitar / bass guitar, and MIDI compatible electronic drum kits / keyboards plus vocal harmonies.
Passage 2:
Working Day and Night
"Working Day and Night" is a song by American recording artist Michael Jackson. It is the third track from his fifth studio album, Off the Wall (1979). The song was written and produced by Jackson. Despite not being released as a single, Jackson performed the song live for his first two solo tours. It is also featured on the video game Michael Jackson: The Experience. The song has been sampled by several artists. It was remixed and released on the remix/soundtrack album, Immortal, in 2011. In 2014, producer Timbaland sampled percussion and breaths from the song in the duet version of "Love Never Felt So Good" (with Justin Timberlake); the duet was released as a single from Xscape.

Background
"Working Day and Night" was written by Michael Jackson and recorded for his studio album Off the Wall issued in August 1979. The song was not released as a single, but as the B-side for "Rock with You" in the US, and B-side for "Off the Wall" in the UK. The song has a tempo of 128 beats per minute, making it one of Jackson's fastest songs.

Live performances
"Working Day and Night" was performed by both of The Jacksons' tours, and two of Michael Jackson's first two world concert series tours as a solo artist.
The song was performed by The Jacksons' Triumph Tour in 1981 and Victory Tour in 1984. In Michael Jackson's solo tours, the song was performed live on the Bad World Tour from 1987-1989, and the first two legs of Dangerous World Tour in 1992. The song was rehearsed for third leg of Dangerous World Tour in 1993, but it was ultimately removed from the setlist.
A live version, recorded at one of The Jacksons' 1981 Madison Square Garden concerts, was included on live album, The Jacksons Live!, later edited and released as the album's second single in November 1981.  Record World said that "An energetic bass riff transports the exciting vocal interaction, while horn spice gives added radio appeal." In 2001, the original demo recording of the song was released as a bonus track on the expanded, special edition of Off the Wall. The live performance video at Jackson's Dangerous World Tour in Bucharest, Romania on October 1, 1992, was featured on the DVD in his box set The Ultimate Collection in 2004, and a live concert DVD, Live in Bucharest: The Dangerous Tour, in 2005. In 2012, a live audio and video version of the song performed during the Bad World Tour was released on the deluxe edition of Bad 25 and the concert DVD Live at Wembley July 16, 1988. The song was remixed and released on the soundtrack to Cirque du Soleil's Michael Jackson: The Immortal World Tour, Immortal, in 2011. This song has also been used for the Michael Jackson: One production.

Personnel
Official versions
"Album Version" - 5:12
"Original Demo from 1978" - 4:10
"Immortal Version" - 3:36
"Live at Triumph Tour" by The Jacksons - 6:53
"Live at Wembley July 16, 1988" from the Bad World Tour, available in the deluxe edition of Bad 25 - 5:55

Covers and samples
In 1983, George Duke sampled this song for the "Overture" of the album Guardian of the Light.
In 1999, Will Smith sampled this song on his track "Can You Feel Me" for his album Willennium.
In 1989, Richie Rich sampled this song for his single "Salsa House", from the album I Can Make You Dance.
In 2009, Michael's sister Janet Jackson sampled this song for her single "Make Me" from her greatest hits album Number Ones.
In 2014, Timbaland sampled percussion and breaths from the song for the duet version of Jackson's posthumous song "Love Never Felt So Good", which features American recording artist Justin Timberlake for the record Xscape.
Passage 3:
1000 Song Challenge
1000 Song Challenge (Korean: 도전 1000곡; RR: Dojeon Cheongok), also known as Challenge 1000 Songs, is a South Korean karaoke singing competition television series, which aired on SBS from 2000 to 2014. During the show, guests compete by singing popular songs accurately from memory. The songs are chosen randomly from a pool of 1000 songs. Unlike normal karaoke, the lyrics are not shown, so it is easier to make mistakes. The contestants with the highest scores proceed to the next round. In one segment of the show, "Run Karaoke", contestants race to the microphone and whoever gets there first gets to sing a song and gain points. In another segment, the contestants hear the beginning of a song, and the first one to correctly name the song gains points. The winner of the final round receives household items as prizes, such a humidifier or espresso machine. Many popular celebrities were invited to the show, including BoA, Shinhwa and Girls' Generation.The show began airing on October 22, 2000, and was extremely popular in its early years. It aired on Sunday mornings and had mainly older viewers. SBS cancelled the show in 2014 because advertisement revenue was low, and they wanted to target young people. The last episode aired on June 22, 2014.

Hosts
Various television personalities co-hosted the show throughout its nearly 14-year run. Comedian Lee Hwi-jae began hosting the show (with Jeong Hyeong-don) in April 2008, and continued until the show's cancellation in 2014. Trot singer Jang Yun-jeong first hosted the show for a year and a half, beginning in April 2006, and returned in August 2009. Lee and Jang were praised for their "smooth and entertaining" hosting style, and they won the "Best Couple Award" at the 2013 SBS Entertainment Awards. Jang left the show in April 2014 due to her pregnancy, and was replaced by Hyolyn.
Passage 4:
List of number-one dance singles of 2011 (U.S.)
The Billboard Dance Club Songs chart is a chart that ranks the best-performing singles in that category in the United States. The first number-one song of the year was by Swedish House Mafia and English rapper Tinie Tempah, with their collaboration "Miami 2 Ibiza". American singer-songwriter Katy Perry achieved three number-one songs on the chart, which included "Firework", "E.T. and "Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)". "E.T." ranked at number one on the 2011 Hot Dance Club Songs year end chart. Australian singer-songwriter Kylie Minogue also topped the chart three times, with the songs "Better than Today", "Higher", a collaboration with Taio Cruz and Travie McCoy, and "Put Your Hands Up (If You Feel Love)". American singer Britney Spears topped the chart three times with "Hold It Against Me", "Till the World Ends" and "I Wanna Go", from her seventh album Femme Fatale. Beyoncé and Jennifer Lopez also achieved three number one songs on the chart each, the former with "Run the World (Girls)", "Best Thing I Never Had", and "Countdown", and the latter with "On the Floor", "I'm Into You", and "Papi". off of her seventh studio album "Love?" marking a comeback for the singer. The American band Selena Gomez & the Scene also achieved three number one songs on the chart each with "A Year Without Rain", "Who Says" and "Love You like a Love Song".

Barbadian recording artist Rihanna topped the chart with four songs from three different albums; the first was French DJ David Guetta's song Who's That Chick?, from his album One More Love where Rihanna appeared as a guest vocalist, "S&M" and "California King Bed" from Rihanna's fifth album Loud, and "We Found Love"' from her sixth album Talk That Talk. "We Found Love", a collaboration with Scottish DJ Calvin Harris, was the only song to spend more than one week at number one, and topped the chart for two consecutive weeks. American singer-songwriter Lady Gaga also achieved four number one songs on the chart with "Born This Way", "Judas", "The Edge of Glory", and "You and I". British singer-songwriter Leona Lewis achieved her first number one on the chart with "Collide", a collaboration with Avicii.
These are the Billboard Hot Dance Club Play and Singles Sales number-one hits of 2011.

See also
List of number-one dance airplay hits of 2011 (U.S.)
2011 in music
List of artists who reached number one on the U.S. Dance Club Songs chart
Passage 5:
Daasebre Gyamenah
Daasebre Gyamenah (Akan: Daasebrε Gyamena), was a Ghanaian highlife musician who became very popular for his hit album Kokooko (1999) which featured Lord Kenya. Kokooko was the first major fusion of hiplife and highlife in Ghana. Many successful albums followed thus earning him one of his many nicknames "Hitman"."Wo da enda","Ahoofe", and "Still I love you" are a few of his popular songs.
Among youths and old, he is popular and beloved. Daasebre's songs are mostly mid tempo and include many hip hop elements. He featured many hip life artists like none of his genre colleagues. A major element of his songs is the Akan way of storytelling by use of proverbs. His proverbs stood out from others due to his upbringing through his grandmother. These proverbs mostly summed up the message of his songs. In an interview he claimed to have experienced some of the stories in his songs with the exception of the love songs.
In 2006, Daasebre took a flight from Ghana to London to work on his music. At Heathrow airport he was arrested by police. His luggage contained cocaine of which he claimed to have no clue of. Eleven months in prison had a big impact on him. He was never convicted of the crime due to facts suggesting he did not know of the existence of the drugs. His following lead single for his next album "Saa Na Etee" was mainly about his arrest. He talked about it in songs like "Twaso" and "Gye Me".
His death in 2016 came at a time many Ghanaians musicians had died but his death was the most felt among all. As one part of his family were Muslim he should have received a Muslim burial but his other family refused. Their main reason was the fact he was of royal blood and should be buried as such. A long feud led to him been buried in December of that year, almost six months after his death. Many tributes to him followed after his death. "Kokooko" by Sarkodie and "Daasebre Gyamenah" by Daddy Lumba are two which have gained popularity.

Life and career
Daasebre was born a Muslim and from a royal home. His full name at birth was Daasebre Gyamenah Abubakar Siddiq. His late mother was a Muslim who died when Daasebre was only three months old. He was nicknamed Ahoofe, a name his fans gave him after the release of his hit song, "Ahoofe", which literally means beautiful or the handsome one. He released an Album in the late 80s with no success. After spending time in various African states he returned to Ghana in 1992 only to make music 7 years later. His first hit, Kokooko, made him and Lord Kenya, who was featured on a song, gain huge success in Ghana and also among Ghanaians abroad.In January 2016, Gyamenah released what turned out to be his final album, Yenfii Ta, and in May released a song from the album and his final single, "Ntamago".

Death
He died in the early hours of 29 July 2016 at the 37 Military Hospital in Accra.

Honours and awards
He won two and four awards during the 2000 and 2002 editions of the Ghana Music Awards respectively.

Discography
Kokooko
Ahoofe
You Can't Touch Me
Calling
How Far?
I Beg
A Friend In Need
Yeegye Apem
Odo Yede
Yenfii Ta
Passage 6:
Selena singles discography
American singer Selena released twenty-four official singles, seven promotional singles. Her career began as the lead vocalist of Los Dinos in 1980. Her albums with Los Dinos on indie labels failed to achieve any chart success. In 1987, her remake of Ritchie Valens' "La Bamba" peaked at number 19 on the United States Billboard Hot Latin Songs chart, her first entry. She signed with EMI Latin nine years later as a solo artist though her band continued to tour with her. Selena appeared on "Buenos Amigos" with Salvadoran singer Álvaro Torres. The track peaked at number one on the U.S. Hot Latin Songs chart in 1991, the singer's first number one song. Subsequent singles, "Baila Esta Cumbia" and "Como la Flor", became popular songs on Mexican radio, with "Como la Flor" launching the singer's career in that country. "Como la Flor" peaked at number six on the Hot Latin Songs chart, despite popular culture claims that it was the singer's first number one single. The track has charted on the U.S. Regional Mexican Digital Songs list since its inception in 2010 and remains the singer's signature number and most popular recording.Selena's first live album, Live (1993), contained three studio tracks and produced two top-five U.S. singles, "No Debes Jugar" and "La Llamada". After her collaboration with the Barrio Boyzz on the single "Donde Quiera Que Estés" peaked at number one on the Hot Latin Songs chart, Selena released her fourth studio album, Amor Prohibido (1994). The album continued the singer's streak of US number one singles with "Amor Prohibido", "Bidi Bidi Bom Bom", "No Me Queda Más", and The Pretenders' cover "Fotos y Recuerdos". The latter peaked at number one posthumously following the shooting death of Selena on March 31, 1995. "Amor Prohibido" and "No Me Queda Más" became the most successful U.S. Latin singles of 1994 and 1995, respectively. At the time of her death, Selena was in the process of crossing over into the American pop market. Recording labels EMI Latin and EMI Records jointly released Dreaming of You several months after her death. Fearful that the song might cannibalize sales of the album in the U.S., EMI Records released "I Could Fall in Love" as a promotional single. It became the highest charting English-language song on the Hot Latin Songs chart for two years and became her first number one single in Canada. The title track, "Dreaming of You" became the highest charting Billboard Hot 100 song of the singer's career, peaking at number 22. Her cover of Pedro Infante's "Tú Sólo Tú" peaked at number one on the Hot Latin Songs for ten consecutive weeks; the longest number-one single of her career. "I'm Getting Used to You" peaked at number one on the U.S. Dance/Electronic Singles Sales; her first number one on that chart.Selena's last recorded song, "A Boy Like That" (a song from the 1967 musical West Side Story) was part of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences honoring the musical. The song was also a benefit recording for AIDS Project Los Angeles. It peaked at number four on the U.S. Dance Club Songs chart after its release in 1996. In 2002, Selena's brother and music producer A.B. Quintanilla mashed "Como la Flor", "Amor Prohibido", and "Si Una Vez" into a medley entitled "Con Tanto Amor Medley" to promote the album Ones. Since Billboard magazine began monitoring music downloads in 2010, Selena's songs re-entered the U.S. charts including first time entries "La Carcacha" (1990), "Ya Ves" (1990), "Enamorada de Ti" (1990), "Baila Esta Cumbia" (1992), and "El Chico del Apartamento 512" (1994).

Singles
Solo career
Selena y Los Dinos singles
Promotional singles and other charted songs
Other appearances
See also
Billboard Top Latin Songs Year-End Chart
List of songs recorded by Selena
Selena albums discography
Selena videography

Notes
Passage 7:
Ten Walls
Marijus Adomaitis (born 19 January 1983), better known by his stage names Ten Walls or Mario Basanov, is a Lithuanian producer who is best known for his 2014 single "Walking with Elephants", which peaked at number 2 on the UK Singles Chart.
In June 2015, Ten Walls was dropped from several festivals and by his booking agency after making controversial comments comparing gay people to pedophiles in a Facebook post, and referring to the LGBT community as a "different breed".

Career
2009–12: Mario Basanov
In 2012 under the name Mario Basanov Adomaitis won Best Electronic Act at Lithuanian M.A.M.A. music awards.

2013–15: Breakthrough
On 10 May 2013 Ten Walls released his debut EP Gotham. On 9 December 2013 he released his debut single "Requiem". On 7 September 2014 he released the single "Walking with Elephants". On 10 September 2014 the song was at number 3 on The Official Chart Update in the UK. On 14 September 2014 the song entered the UK Singles Chart at number 6. The song also peaked at number 3 on the UK Dance Chart and number 8 on the Scottish Singles Chart.

Homophobia controversy
In June 2015, Ten Walls posted a rant on his Facebook pages condemning homosexuality and comparing it to pedophilia. According to the Gay Star News, the post stated: "I remember producing music for one Lithuanian musician, who tried to wash my brain that I don't need to be so conservative and intolerant about [gay people]. When I asked him 'what would you do if you realized that your 16-year-old son's browny (anus) is ripped by his boyfriend?' Well he was silent. In the good 90s ... these people of different breed were fixed. One of my first gigs in Ireland, on my way to my hotel I saw a church with a fence decorated with hundreds of baby shoes.  Unfortunately a priest's lie for many years was uncovered when children were massively raped. Unfortunately the people of other breed continue to do it and everyone knows it but does nothing." As a result of his comments, he was dropped from several festival line-ups. His booking agency, Coda Music Agency, announced that they no longer represented him. Fort Romeau pulled his support for him at London club venue Koko.
Ten Walls' posts were later deleted after a backlash, and he put out an apology claiming that he cancelled the festival dates himself. Organizers of Dutch festival Pitch, Belgian festival Pukkelpop, the German festival Dockville, British festival Creamfields, and Spanish festival Sónar publicly confirmed that they cancelled Ten Walls performances due to his homophobic statements. Ten Walls also received criticism from Lithuanian LGBT activists.Three months after his post, in September 2015, Ten Walls issued a formal apology for the incident, calling it "completely out of character".

Discography
Studio albums
Extended plays
Singles
Awards
On 30 January 2015 at M.A.M.A. awards Ten Walls won awards for best electronic act and best music video ("Walking with Elephants").
Passage 8:
Walking with Elephants
"Walking with Elephants" is a song by Lithuanian producer Ten Walls. It was released as a digital download on 13 April 2014 by German record label BOSO and on 28 April 2014 in the United Kingdom. The song peaked to number 6 on the UK Singles Chart and also charted in Belgium. It was one of the most popular songs in Ibiza in 2014.

Music video
A music video to accompany the release of "Walking with Elephants" was first released onto YouTube on 3 September 2014 at a total length of three minutes and two seconds.

Track listing
Chart performance
Release history
Passage 9:
Do You Realize??
"Do You Realize??" is a song by the Flaming Lips, released as the first single from their 2002 album Yoshimi Battles the Pink Robots. It is widely considered to be one of the group's most accessible and popular songs. It reached No. 32 in the UK Singles Chart and was adopted as the Official Rock Song of Oklahoma from 2009 to April 2013. The song was ranked No. 31 on Rolling Stone's 100 Best Songs of the 2000s. It is also the band's most popular live song, and has rarely been excluded from setlists since its inception into their live shows in 2002. Wayne Coyne also considers it to be the best song they've ever written.

Structure and recording
In an interview with Mojo, Coyne revealed that during the recording of Yoshimi..., band member Steven Drozd was trying to kick a heroin addiction. When they took breaks from playing, Drozd would have a really tough time with his withdrawal.  Listening to him cry, and with the death of his father in mind, Coyne wrote: "Do You Realize??".
Wayne Coyne, commenting on "Do You Realize??" said, "Whenever I analyze the scientific realities of what it means to be living here on Earth – in this galaxy – spinning around the sun – flying through space – a terror shock seizes me!!! I'm reminded once again of how precarious our whole existence is..."

UK track listing
7""Do You Realize??"
"Up Above the Daily Hum"CD1"Do You Realize??"
"If I Go Mad/Funeral in My Head"
"Syrtis Major"CD2"Do You Realize??"
"Up Above the Daily Hum"
"Xanthe Terra"DVD single"Do You Realize??" (video)
"Do You Realize??" (audio)
"The Southern Oklahoma Trigger Contest"
"Noodling Theme (Epic Sunset Mix #5)""Syrtis Major" and "Xanthe Terra" are instrumental pieces intended to be taken from the forthcoming Christmas on Mars soundtrack.

Video
The music video was recorded on Fremont Street in Las Vegas and features Wayne Coyne, people dressed as bunnies and pigs, four female dancers in negligee and a live elephant.  No other members of the band are seen.

Oklahoma state song
In March 2009, "Do You Realize??" was announced as the official state rock song of Oklahoma, after winning an online vote among ten finalists as authorized by the Oklahoma state legislature: out of 21,000 votes cast, nearly 51% were for "Do You Realize??" The Oklahoma Senate approved this choice unanimously.  However, on 23 April 2009, a vote in the Oklahoma House of Representatives fell three votes short of the 51 votes necessary to ratify the resolution: one Republican state legislator attacked the band for its use of offensive language, while another said he opposed the song because band member Michael Ivins had worn a red T-shirt with a yellow sickle and hammer during a previous appearance by the band. Democratic Governor Brad Henry subsequently announced that he would issue an executive order in lieu of the resolution rejected by the Oklahoma House. However, it was revealed in 2013 that Republican Governor Mary Fallin removed the song's designation as the Official Rock Song of Oklahoma by not renewing Brad Henry's executive order upon taking office in 2011.

Commercial appearances
Hewlett-Packard featured the band alongside Penn and Teller in its 2002 commercial for its HP Media Center PC, which included a clip of the music video. In a review of the ad, music journalist Jim DeRogatis said, "It was a commercial for the Flaming Lips," as much as it was for HP's computer.In 2003, VH1 featured the song in a spot that promoted its network. In 2004, Mitsubishi used the song in a television ad for one of its cars, as did Land Rover in 2007 with voice-over by Charles Shaughnessy.
A cover version was used in the teaser trailer of Transformers: The Last Knight in late 2016.
The song was used in the trailer for Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 shown at San Diego Comic-Con in July 2022 and would later be included in the film as a part of Awesome Mix Vol. 3.

Covers
The song was covered by The Reign of Kindo on their eponymous debut album. It was also covered in 2012 by Ball Park Music for Australian radio station Triple J's Like a Version.
Father John Misty, American folk singer-songwriter and former member of indie rock bands Saxon Shore and Fleet Foxes, performed a version of the song in July 2012 for The A.V. Club's A.V. Undercover series. Father John Misty's version is featured in the 2022 film Press Play.American Jewish rock band Blue Fringe covered the song on their 2007 album The Whole World Lit Up.
In 2015, the song was covered by British singer/composer Ursine Vulpine (aka Frederick Lloyd). This version was used for the first theatrical trailer of Transformers: The Last Knight as well as the trailer for the third season of the television series Penny Dreadful). In 2016, Sharon Van Etten covered the song for Amazon's Gortimer Gibbon's Life on Normal Street soundtrack.

Chart positions
Certifications