Passage 1:
Man and the Moon
"Man and the Moon" is an episode of Disneyland, which originally aired on December 28, 1955. It was directed by Disney animator Ward Kimball.
The show begins with a humorous look with a man's fascination with the Moon through animation. This segment features characteristics of the Moon depicted from William Shakespeare and children's nursery rhymes to lunar superstitions and scientific research. Then Kimball comes on with some information on the Moon, supplemented by graphics. Kimball then introduces Dr. Wernher von Braun, who discusses plans for a trip around the Moon. Dr. Wernher von Braun was employed as a technical consultant on this film by Walt Disney, and on a number of other Disney films. He had a great knowledge of rockets, as he had helped to develop the V-2 rocket while working for Nazi Germany.
Finally, a live action simulation from inside and outside the crewed ship Lunar Recon Ship RM-1 dramatizes what such an expedition might be like, including an almost-disastrous hit by a very small meteor. Towards the end, this film presents what seems to be a bit of "sci-fi"; as the RM-1, crossing the Moon's night side, approaches the night/day terminator, high radiation is suddenly detected, and a flare fired over the area reveals what looks like a rectangular double wall, or the ruins thereof, extending out from a crater; strangely, none of the crew remark on it, and the unusual radiation is never mentioned again.  This episode later reaired in 1959 under a new title: "Tomorrow the Moon".
This episode was preceded by "Man in Space" and followed by "Mars and Beyond". It was repeated on June 13, 1956, and September 25, 1959.

Home media
The episode was released on May 18, 2004, on Walt Disney Treasures: Tomorrow Land.

See also
"Man Will Conquer Space Soon!"
"Our Friend the Atom"
Passage 2:
Von Braun (crater)
von Braun, named after the rocket pioneer Wernher von Braun, is a lunar impact crater located near the northwestern limb of the Moon. It lies along the western edge of the Oceanus Procellarum, to the northeast of the crater Lavoisier. The northeastern rim of this crater is on the edge of the Sinus Roris, a bay feature in the northwestern part of the Oceanus Procellarum. Due to its proximity to the limb, this crater appears significantly foreshortened when viewed from the Earth.This crater is somewhat distorted from a true circular shape, and is slightly longer to the north and south. The outer rim has undergone some erosion due to subsequent impacts. Most notably, the crater Lavoisier E is attached to the western rim, and the outer rampart falls across part of the inner wall of von Braun. There are small craters along the rim to the southeast and the east, and craterlets along the northeast and southwestern rims. The inner wall has slumped along the southeast and northwestern sides to form a terrace-like shelf. The interior floor is relatively level and featureless, with a few small craterlets marking the surface.This crater was previously identified as Lavoisier D before being assigned a name by the IAU.

External links
Google Moon - von Braun
Passage 3:
Walter Dornberger
Major-General Dr. Walter Robert Dornberger (6 September 1895 – 26 June 1980) was a German Army artillery officer whose career spanned World War I and World War II. He was a leader of Nazi Germany's V-2 rocket programme and other projects at the Peenemünde Army Research Centre.
Dornberger was born in Gießen in 1895. In 1914 he enlisted in the German army during World War 1.  In October 1918, as an artillery lieutenant, Dornberger was captured by United States Marines and spent two years in a French prisoner of war camp, mostly in solitary confinement because of repeated escape attempts.  In the late 1920s, Dornberger completed an engineering course with distinction at the Berlin Technical Institute, and in the Spring of 1930, Dornberger graduated after five years with an MS degree in mechanical engineering from the Technische Hochschule Charlottenburg in Berlin.  In 1935, Dornberger received an honorary doctorate, which Col. Karl Emil Becker arranged as Dean of the new Faculty of Military Technology at the TH Berlin.

Rocket development
In April 1930, Dornberger was appointed to the Ballistics Council of the German Army (Reichswehr) Weapons Department as Assistant Examiner to secretly develop a military liquid-fuel rocket suitable for mass-production that would surpass the range of artillery.  In the spring of 1932, Dornberger, his commander (Captain Ritter von Horstig), and Col. Karl Emil Becker visited the Verein für Raumschiffahrt (VfR)'s leased Raketenflugplatz (English: "Rocket Flight Field") and subsequently issued a contract for a demonstration launch.  On 21 December 1932, Captain Dornberger watched a rocket motor explode at Kummersdorf while Wernher von Braun tried to light it with a flaming gasoline can at the end of a four-meter-long (13 ft) pole.In 1933, Waffenamt Prüfwesen (Wa Prüf, English: "Weapons Testing") 1/1, under the Heereswaffenamt (Army Weapons Department), commenced work under the direction of Colonel Ing. h. c. Dornberger. Dornberger also took over his last military command on 1 October 1934, a powder-rocket training battery at Königsbrück.  In May 1937, Dornberger and his ninety-man organization were transferred from Kummersdorf to Peenemünde.  In September 1942, Dornberger was given two posts:  coordinating the V-1 flying bomb and V-2 rocket development programs and directing active operations.  The first successful test launch of a V-2 was the third test launch on 3 October 1942. 

In June 1943, in a speech to nearly 6500 German employees and soldiers in Peenemünde, Dornberger blended traditional German patriotism with Nazi ideological motifs while also highlighting and reinforcing many of the unique factors that made missile development so successful at Peenemünde in the first place. By emphasizing the path-breaking nature of their work as well as its singular importance to the war effort, all while playing on the popular fear of the Soviet Union and the disdain for the Western Allies for bombing their cities into rubble, Dornberger composed a powerful message that would certainly appeal to many Peenemünders.In the early morning of 7 July 1943, Ernst Steinhoff flew von Braun and Major-General Dornberger in his Heinkel He 111 to Hitler's Führerhauptquartier "Wolfsschanze" headquarters and the next day Hitler viewed the film of the successful V-2 test launch (narrated by von Braun) and the scale models of the Watten bunker and launching-troop vehicles:
This third day of October, 1942, is the first of a new era in transportation, that of space travel ...
I have had to apologize only to two men in my whole life. The first was Field Marshal von Brauchitsch. I did not listen to him when he told me again and again how important your research was. The second man is yourself. I never believed that your work would be successful.
In January 1944, Dornberger was named Senior Artillery Commander 191 and was headquartered at Maisons-Lafitte near Saint Germain, and in December 1944, Dornberger was given complete authority for anti-aircraft rocket development (Flak E Flugabwehrkanonenentwicklung). On 12 January 1945 on Dornberger's proposal, Albert Speer replaced the Long-Range Weapons Commission with "Working Staff Dornberger".  In February 1945, Dornberger and staff relocated his headquarters from Schwedt-an-der-Oder to Bad Sachsa, then on 6 April 1945, from Bad Sachsa to Haus Ingeborg in Oberjoch near Hindelang in the Allgäu mountains of Bavaria.
Before going to the Alps, General Dornberger hid comprehensive V-2 documentation in a mine near Goslar, which were recovered by the US 332nd Engineer Regiment on 16 May 1945 by a secret action when Goslar was already occupied by the British Army.On 2 May 1945, Dornberger, von Braun, and five other men departed from Haus Ingeborg and travelled through Gaicht Pass and towards the little Austrian village of Schattwald. They met American soldiers who convoyed the group to the Tyrolean town of Reutte for the night. 
At an internment camp after the war, known as "CSDIC Camp 11", the British bugged Dornberger, who in conversation with Generalmajor Gerhard Bassenge (GOC Air Defences, Tunis & Biserta) said that he and Wernher von Braun had realized in late 1944 that things were going wrong and had consequently communicated with the General Electric Corporation through the German Embassy in Portugal, with the intent coming to some arrangement.

Postwar
In mid-August 1945, after taking part in Operation Backfire, Dornberger was escorted from Cuxhaven to London for interrogation by the British War Crimes Investigation Unit in connection with the use of slave labour in the production of V-2 rockets; he was subsequently transferred and detained for two years at Bridgend in South Wales.Along with some other German rocket scientists, Dornberger was released and brought to the United States under the auspices of Operation Paperclip and worked for the United States Air Force for three years, developing guided missiles. From 1950 to 1965, he worked for the Bell Aircraft Corporation, where he worked on several projects, rising to the post of Vice-President. He played a major role in the creation of the North American X-15 aircraft and was a key consultant for the Boeing X-20 Dyna-Soar project. He also had a role on the creation of ideas and projects, which, in the end, led to the creation of the Space Shuttle. Dornberger also developed Bell's ASM-A-2, the world's first guided nuclear air-to-surface missile developed for the Strategic Air Command. Dornberger advised West Germany on a European space program. During the 1950s he had some differences with von Braun and was instrumental in recruiting several engineers out of the Huntsville's team for Air Force projects. The most remarkable of them was Krafft Ehricke, who later created the Centaur rocket stage and actively participated in several more Defense projects.
Following retirement, Dornberger went to Mexico and later returned to West Germany, where he died in 1980 in Baden-Württemberg.

Works
Dornberger, Walter (1952). V-2, der Schuss ins Weltall: Geschichte einer grossen Erfindung [V-2, the Shot into Space: History of a Great Invention] (in German). Esslingen: Bechtle Verlag. OCLC 175065526.
Dornberger, Walter (1954). V-2. New York: Viking Press. OCLC 1223668.

Awards and decorations
Iron Cross (1914), 1st and 2nd Class (World War I)
Knight Second Class of the House Order of the White Falcon, with Swords (World War I)
Hesse General Honor Decoration (World War I)
Wound Badge (1918) in Black (World War I)
Wehrmacht Long Service Award, 4th to 1st class
War Merit Cross, 1st and 2nd Class with Swords
Knights Cross of the War Merit Cross with Swords (29 October 1944)

See also
Arthur Rudolph
List of German inventors and discoverers
Aggregat (rocket family)
V-3 cannon
Passage 4:
Von Braun Center for Science &amp; Innovation
The Von Braun Center for Science & Innovation (VCSI ) is a non-profit research and development organization based in Huntsville, Alabama and is named for pioneering aerospace engineer Wernher von Braun.   VCSI is affiliated with NASA, Department of Defense and other federal government agencies.
The center facilitates transfer of intellectual property between government agencies and private companies, also known as "spinoff" technologies. The center has also coordinated university research and development efforts in the Gulf of Mexico on behalf of NOAAVCSI is a contributor to the Rocket City Space Pioneers efforts towards the Google Lunar X Prize.

Members
Corporate
Dynetics
AZ Technology
Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC)
Alliant Techsystems
Gray Research
Lockheed Martin
Polaris Sensor Technologies
Sirote & Permutt
Beason & Nalley
Draper Laboratory

Government
Aviation and Missile Research, Development, and Engineering Center
NASA
Missile Defense Agency
Tennessee Valley Authority

University
Alabama A&M University
Auburn University
Tuskegee University
University of Alabama
University of Alabama at Birmingham
University of Alabama in Huntsville
University of South Alabama
Passage 5:
Man Will Conquer Space Soon!
"Man Will Conquer Space Soon!" was the title of a series of 1950s magazine articles in Collier's detailing Wernher von Braun's plans for human spaceflight. Edited by Cornelius Ryan, the individual articles were authored by such space notables of the time as Willy Ley, Fred Lawrence Whipple, Dr. Joseph Kaplan, Dr. Heinz Haber, and von Braun. The articles were illustrated with paintings and drawings by Chesley Bonestell, Fred Freeman, and Rolf Klep, some of the finest magazine illustrators of the time.
The magazine articles showed earth orbit missions and lunar surface exploration, to be undertaken by large crews in the 1960/70s timeframe.  Several concept vehicles were proposed and described in detail, such as a Ferry Rocket, a Space Station, and a Lunar Lander.

Legacy
The article series was the basis for three episodes in the Disneyland anthology series: "Man in Space," "Man and the Moon," and "Mars and Beyond." The series was expanded into three books: Across the Space Frontier (1952), Conquest of the Moon (1953), and The Exploration of Mars (1956). Examples of some of the ships they modeled are in the World of Collier's add-ons to the Orbiter space flight simulator.

Article details
The issues and titles of the articles in Collier's were:

March 22, 1952: "Man will Conquer Space Soon."
"What are we waiting for?" pp. 22–23.
"Crossing the last frontier." pp. 24–29, 72, 74. Dr. Wernher von Braun
"A station in space." pp. 30–31. Willy Ley
"The heavens open." p. 32–33. Dr. Fred L. Whipple
"This side of infinity." p. 34. Dr. Joseph Kaplan
"Can we survive in space?" pp. 35, 65–67. Dr. Heinz Haber
"Who owns the universe?" pp. 36, 70–71. Oscar Schachter
"Around the Editor's Desk: Space Quiz." pp. 38–39.October 18, 1952: "Man on the Moon."
"Man on the Moon." p. 51. The editors
"The journey." pp. 52–58, 60. Dr. Wernher von Braun
"Inside the moon ship." p. 56–60. Willy LeyOctober 25, 1952: "More about Man on the Moon."
"The exploration." pp. 38–40, 42, 44–48.  Dr. Fred L. Whipple and Dr. Wernher von Braun
"Inside the lunar base." p. 46. Willy LeyFebruary 28, 1953: "World's First Space Suit."
"Man's survival in space." pp. 40–41. Cornelius Ryan and the editors
"Picking the men." pp. 42–48.March 7, 1953: "More about Man's Survival in Space."
"Testing the men." pp. 56–63.March 14, 1953: "How Man will Meet Emergency in Space Travel."
"Emergency!" pp. 38–44.June 27, 1953: "The Baby Space Station: First Step in the Conquest of Space."
"Baby Space Station." pp. 33–35, 38, 40. Dr. Wernher von Braun with Cornelius RyanApril 30, 1954: "Is There Life on Mars?"
"Is there life on Mars?" p. 21. Dr. Fred L. Whipple
"Can we get to Mars?" pp. 22–29. Dr. Wernher von Braun with Cornelius Ryan

Reception
Groff Conklin of Galaxy Science Fiction said in 1954 that Conquest of Space "is just as beautiful, authoritative and exciting as" Across the Space Frontier and "a breath-taking bargain in every way."

See also
Von Braun Ferry Rocket
A page-by-page, high resolution reprint (PDF format) starts in the July / August 2012 issue of the newsletter Horizons, and continues for a total of eight issues, published once every two months. Horizons is the newsletter of the Houston Section of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. These are available to the public with no paywall and no membership required.
Passage 6:
Flip Animation Festival
FLIP is an animation festival primarily hosted by the Light House Media Centre in Wolverhampton, UK. It is one of two festivals hosted by Light House, the other of which is Deaffest. Official literature for the festival says that FLIP occurs annually at the beginning of November and attracts submissions from more than 30 countries worldwide. As well as screening the selected open submissions, FLIP also consists of special screenings, talks from professionals within the animation world, workshops, industry panels, portfolio reviews and competitions. The festival was set up, managed and programmed by Peter McLuskie between 2004 and 2011. It grew out of the 'Animation Forum', also based at Light House and which was later rebranded as Animation Forum West Midlands and found a home at Birmingham City University. In 2009 the festival was awarded a Black Country Tourism Award for Event of the Year.

The festival
Based in Wolverhampton, the festival began in 2004 and features a range of events from educational workshops for young people to experimental animation for grown ups; from industry led panels to feature film screenings and from international showcases and retrospectives of short films to spotlights on animation studios. FLIP is organised and hosted by Light House Media Centre in partnership with the University of Wolverhampton's School of Art and Design and School of Computing & IT, Wolverhampton Art Gallery. It is part funded by UK Film Council (National Lottery) through Screen West Midlands; Wolverhampton City Council; University of Wolverhampton; Business Link West Midlands and Animation Forum West Midlands.

Exhibitions
The exhibitions curated for FLIP tend to communicate the animation message through different media/outlets. They have a continuing partnership with Wolverhampton Art Gallery who programme specific works on site as part of the Festival. FLIP 2007 saw an exhibition of original puppets used in films such as The Corpse Bride, Mars Attacks! and Andy Pandy, and the puppet designer Nick Roberson answered questions from the audience. During FLIP 2008, the Light House building was home to large, moving, kinetic sculptures, by London-based artist Steve Hutton. As well as this, there was a screening of animated Doctor Who episodes from the 1960s followed by a talk on Doctor Who animation led by industry experts. 2009 saw a studio spotlight on the Glasgow-based Axis Animation who showcased some of their work and then answered questions from the audience. The other studio spotlight that year was from ArthurCox studios who also presented some of their work and then held a discussion with the audience.
2010's festival hosted a presentation from the creators of the LittleBigPlanet games, Media Molecule, as well as a display from Light House Media Centre's own animator is residence, Drew Roper, including his set for his award-winning film 'A History of Denim'.
In 2011, FLIP's exhibitions consisted of works by Barry JC Purves which included a book signing and display of the Tchaikovsky puppet, the Birmingham leg of GLI.TC/H festivals' submissions, as well as sketchbooks and artworks by Tori Davis and work from the 2011 feature film Rio, and maquettes from UK puppet makers Mackinnon & Saunders.

Recurring themes or programmes
FLIP offers visitors a chance to engage in ‘Big Screen Gaming’ in the smaller of the two cinemas. In 2009 Flip held a competition for participants to experience the Xbox 360 and one of its core games, Halo 3. This has then led to it becoming a regular feature at Light House with games such as the Fifa World Cup 2010 game and a Street Fighter game. 'Big Screen Gaming' returned for FLIP 2010 with one of the year's most hotly anticipated releases, Halo: Reach.
Another feature of FLIP Festival is the curated programme hosted by a guest curator from within the animation world. Previous years have been curated by Professor Paul Wells (Director of Animation, Loughborough University) and The Brothers McLeod whereas 2010 was curated by Clare Kitson, who is a former programmer at the National Film Theatre and between 1989 and 1999, commissioned Channel 4's animation.

The awards
The festival is a competition between animated films created using various techniques (stop motion, animated drawings, cut out paper, modelling clay, etc.) classified in to various award categories. These have included the following:

Best of Festival
Best UK Film
Best International Film
Best Newcomer
Best Experimental Film FLIP also runs competitions for student films, created by current university/college students and, starting in 2010, for animators under the age of 18 years as well.

FLIP Festival 2011
FLIP Festival 2011 took place on 27–29 October 2011.
The Audience Choice winners of 2011's festival were:

Bertie Crisp, Dir. Francesca Adams (UK)
The Skeleton Woman, Dir. Sarah Van Den Boom (FRANCE)
Dead Bird, Dir. Trevor Hardy (UK)
Robin Hood, Dir, Ben Smith (UK)
Caged, Dir. Ravi Maheru (UK)
John and Betty, Dir. Alex Hancocks & Luke George (UK)

FLIP Festival 2010
FLIP Festival 2010 took place on 4–6 November 2010.
The award winners of 2010's festival were:

Best of Festival: Simon Cartwright & Jessica Cope with The Astronomer's Sun
Best International Film: Blu with Big Bang, Big Boom
Best Documentary: Samantha Moore with An Eyeful of Sound
Best Experimental Film: Will Anderson with Another Day
Best Sound: Elli Vuorinen with Tongueling
Best New Talent: Julia Gromskaya with L’Anima Mavi
Best Student Film: India Swift with Squid in Love
Student Runners up: Matthew Duddington with By its Clover; Ben Smallman with Tales of Beardyman

FLIP Festival 2009
2009's FLIP Festival took place on 5–7 November.The award winners for 2009's Festival were:

Best of Festival: Taku Kimura with Kudan.
Best UK Film: Steve Irwin with Black Dogs Progress.
Best International Film: Jake Armstrong with The Terrible Thing of Alpha 9, USA.
Best Newcomer: Kristian Andrews with Rabbit Punch
Best Experimental Film: Virginia Mori with Il Gioco de Silenzio (The Play of Silence).
Best Stop Motion: Bang Yao Lui with Deadline
Special Jury Mention: Ed Barrett with Man Up

FLIP Festival 2008
2008's FLIP Festival took place on 6–8 November.
The award winners for 2008's Festival were:

Best Film: Blu with Muto.
Best UK Film: Luis Cook with The Pearce Sisters.
Best International Film: Jeremy Clapin with Skhizein.
Best Abstract Film: Blu with Muto.
Best Sound Design: Alexei Alexeev with KJFG No5.
Best Newcomer: Tom Senior with One Nice Family Photo
Best Student Film: Reza Dolatabadi with Khoda

FLIP Festival 2007
2007's FLIP Festival took place on 1–3 November.
The award winners for 2007's Festival were:

Best Film: Lizzy Hobbs with The Old, Old, Very Old Man.
Best Student Film: Paul O’Flanagan with Beauty Now.
Special Mention (Student Film): Julian Kok with Mimos and the Egg.

Best of FLIP
FLIP Festival also does several small screenings throughout the year of either just the award winners or all the selected submissions. The "Best of FLIP" is usually shown at various venues throughout the West Midlands. For the 2010 season, FLIP had "best of" screenings at both the Stoke Film Theatre and the Wem Town Hall and there was also a special screening at Artsfest '10 in Birmingham, UK.

Notes
External links
FLIP Festival’s website
Light House Media Centre's website
Passage 7:
Mount Von Braun
Mount Von Braun (71°59′S 169°34′E) is a mountain (3,275 m) located 4 nautical miles (7 km) south of Mount Sabine in the Admiralty Mountains. Mapped by United States Geological Survey (USGS) from surveys and U.S. Navy air photos, 1960–63. Named by Advisory Committee on Antarctic Names (US-ACAN) for Wernher von Braun of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, a visitor at McMurdo Station, 1966–67.
 This article incorporates public domain material from "Mount Von Braun". Geographic Names Information System. United States Geological Survey.
Passage 8:
Operation Lighthouse (1937)
Operation Lighthouse was the name given to the failed experimental launch of four Aggregate 3 liquid-fuel rockets by Wernher von Braun and Walter Dornberger on the German island of Greifswalder Oie in December 1937.

Background and preparation
In the summer of 1937 the German Aggregate 3 series of rockets was nearing the testing stage. Several were tested on a special stand at Kummersdorf in an attempt to evaluate guidance systems. These consisted of vanes designed to deflect the rocket exhaust and control the missile's course. On September 1, Dornberger ordered that von Braun's team prepare for a series of test launches in the first part of November from the small island of Greifswalder Oie in an operation he designated "Lighthouse". Von Braun assigned the head of his measurement unit, Gerhard Reisig, to prepare the expedition to the island.In November, rain and snow storms kept the project behind schedule, delaying ferries and nearly collapsing the tent erected as a preparation site. Rodents gnawed on tar paper and telephone cables. Amidst the setbacks, Dornberger and von Braun hunted rabbits and pheasants. The rockets and launch site were not ready until December.

Launches
The first launch was ordered for December 2, but again weather and technical problems delayed the operation. On December 4 the first rocket blasted off just after 10 AM. Set on a test ring without a guide rail, the rocket rose vertically for three seconds, but then the parachute deployed and dragged, burning, behind the vehicle. After less than seven seconds the engine cut out and soon the rocket fell back to the ground, landing 1,000 feet (300 meters) from the launch site. It exploded and burned upon impact, leaving little wreckage to examine.Another missile was launched on the afternoon of December 6 and followed a similar pattern, crashing and exploding in the sea less than twenty feet from the island's cliffs. The wreckage did not yield an explanation for the failure, but the parachute system was suspected.For the third launch, the parachute was replaced with a flare. The rocket was set off in the afternoon of December 8. The missile turned from the vertical into the wind and after four seconds the flare deployed. At 1,000 feet (300 meters) the engine quit, and without the drag of a burning parachute (like the previous two rockets) it achieved a greater distance before crashing over a mile offshore and exploding in the sea.Despite the disappointing results of the first three launches, Dornberger and von Braun decided to launch their last A3. After further weather delays, the last rocket was set off on the morning of December 11 but demonstrated a performance much like the third.

Aftermath
The failure the project launch came as a shock to von Braun, who set to trying to find the causes. He suspected both the guidance control system and the jet vanes. Additionally, he developed a theory that an electrostatic charge caused the parachute to deploy early in the first two launches. Tests conducted at Kummersdorf on an electrically insulated rocket seemed to discount this explanation. Instead, von Braun figured that the rocket had rolled upon launch enough to deploy the parachute, which was set to act when the missile rolled more than six degrees per second. Because the missiles tested had not been painted in patterns, it was only upon reviewing photographs that the roll was detected.Ultimately, the failure of the A3 launches showed the relative lack of experience of von Braun's team and Kreiselgeräte, the company that designed the guidance system. The A3 was essentially abandoned and thoroughly redesigned as the A5. By January 1938 von Braun and Dornberger decided to keep the propulsion, pressurization, and tank systems, but discarded the body and fin design in favor of something that could be better controlled. Additionally, unlike the A3, the A5 would not be designed to carry any scientific instrumentation, but only guidance and control systems.
Furthermore, the failure of the A3 launches held back the development of the A4 (later known as V-2) rocket for at least a year. Von Braun had hoped to launch the world's first ballistic missile by 1940, but the Oie expedition forced this aspiration further into the future.
Passage 9:
Magnus von Braun
Magnus "Mac" Freiherr von Braun (10 May 1919 – 21 June 2003) was a German chemical engineer, Luftwaffe aviator, rocket scientist and business executive. In his 20s he worked as a rocket scientist at Peenemünde and the Mittelwerk.
At age 26, he emigrated to the United States via Operation Paperclip, where he worked for some years at Fort Bliss. In 1955 he began a career as a senior executive with Chrysler's missile and later automotive divisions, retiring in 1975. He lived for 58 years partially in the United States and partially in the United Kingdom until his death. He was the brother of Sigismund and Wernher von Braun.

Biography
Von Braun was born in Greifswald, Pomerania, to Magnus Freiherr von Braun and Emmy von Quistorp. After completing boarding school at Hermann Lietz-Schule in Spiekeroog, he began his studies in 1937 at Technische Universität München. There he remained after receiving his master's degree in organic chemistry, and became an assistant to Nobel laureate Hans Fischer.Von Braun arrived at Peenemünde in July 1943 at the request of Wernher von Braun.  In March 1944 he was arrested with fellow rocket specialists Wernher von Braun, Klaus Riedel, Helmut Gröttrup, and Hannes Lüersen, but was later released.  In late summer 1944 he transferred to the Mittelwerk where he engineered V-2 rocket gyroscopes, servomotors, and turbopumps.
The Mittelwerk was an underground munitions factory dug into Germany's Harz Mountains in order to avoid aerial bombardment by British and American planes. It consisted of two tunnels bored through the mountain range near the town of Nordhausen, each a mile long and connected by dozens of cross tunnels. Railways laid through the main tunnels brought raw materials in and finished rockets out. The entire cavity provided some 35 million cubic feet of space. After massive Allied bombing disrupted the original V-2 development center in the Baltic town of Peenemünde in mid-1943, the majority of German rocket production was moved to the Mittelwerk. Prisoners from the nearby Mittelbau-Dora concentration camps provided slave labor for this huge endeavor. Inmates were marched into the tunnels daily and compelled to work by the notorious Nazi SS, who handled all security issues. The usual horrific methods were employed and over 20,000 slaves perished during this subterranean rocket factory's existence.
Magnus von Braun's involvement with the Mittelwerk began in the fall of 1944, soon after full production began. The first V-2s produced earlier that year had a high failure rate and sabotage was suspected. Concern about these problems prompted Wernher, who was still based at Peenemünde, to send his younger brother to the Mittelwerk in September. While some minor sabotage did occur in the tunnels, it was relatively rare. The real reason for the poor quality of early Mittelwerk missiles was the effort to take cutting-edge research technology and put it into mass production under slave labor conditions.
Tossed into this brutal environment, Magnus reported directly to the factory's chief of rocket production, Arthur Rudolph, who had an office in one of the main tunnels. This work connection with Rudolph would span decades and continents. After Germany surrendered in 1945, Rudolph was part of a group of Nazi scientists who emigrated with the von Braun brothers to the United States as part of Operation Paperclip. The U.S. Army put them to work in New Mexico developing intercontinental ballistic missiles. Moving on to NASA in the 1960s, Rudolph continued to collaborate with Magnus, who by then was employed by the main contractor for the Saturn V lunar rocket, Chrysler Corporation.  As Nasa's project director for the Saturn V, Rudolph was publicly acclaimed after the Moon landing, but towards the end of his life, his wartime complicity in using slave labor at the Mittelwerk became more widely known. These revelations then forced Rudolph to make a 1983 deal with the U.S. Justice Department in which he voluntarily relinquished his U.S. citizenship to avoid prosecution and possible loss of his government pension and Social Security benefits. Rudolph then returned to Germany, where he died in 1996.
In November 1944, Rudolph put Magnus in charge of rocket fin servomotors, which were the most troublesome V-2 component at that time. During this period, concerns over sabotage were at their height. In a notorious incident that winter, several Russian prisoners suspected of sabotage were executed by being hanged from cranes used to lift rocket parts and left dangling for a full work day, as an example to other inmates. In this tense atmosphere, servomotors were at the heart of two abuse accusations leveled against Wernher von Braun by Mittelwerk prisoners after the war, one that may have actually involved Magnus. Michael Neufeld, a Smithsonian historian and author of a 2007 biography of Wernher, has tried to unravel claims by Dora prisoners that they personally witnessed brutality administered by the more famous von Braun brother. In a 2002 article about Wernher's potential culpability in Nazi slave labor at Mittelwerk and several other locations, Neufeld dismissed most claims that von Braun carried out direct sadistic behavior as spurious, easily disproved by tracking his known locations during the war. However, Neufeld felt that there were two accusations in particular that merited further study, the second of which might have involved Magnus. "[R]eports that [Wernher] von Braun attended hangings, ordered hangings, attended hangings in SS uniform, etc., have scarcely been discussed in the literature because such testimonies lack credibility," Neufeld wrote. "But in recent years I have received two reports from French Dora survivors that deserve more consideration." In the first incident, survivor Georges Jouanin, whose job was to climb into upright tail sections of V-2s to install cables to the servomotor, placed a wood shoe on one of the units. He later recorded that "someone has noticed my wooden-heeled clog atop such a fragile organ, and I feel a hand pulling insistently on the end of my striped pants, thus forcing me out of the tail unit. 'You, out of here, man, you're committing sabotage. You shouldn't step with your foot on this.' I get slapped in the face twice and my head bounces against the metal panels of the tail unit. Cap in hand, I find myself in front of a man in his 30s, rather well dressed, angry, to who I am not allowed to give an explanation. The seven or eight engineers or technicians in the group of which he came out seem disconcerted, astonished... I went back to my work space and the incident seemed over, without consequences. My civilian foreman, Manger is his name, returns from break and tells me ... 'Our big boss boxed your ears! That was V. Braun.'"
In the second case, an inmate named Guy Morand testified that while testing rocket servomotors, he tried to cover for another prisoner who had mislaid a chronometer, which brought the wrath of an enraged foreman down upon him. "Like the good Nazi he was," Morand remembered, "he immediately started shouting it was sabotage, when just at that point von Braun arrived accompanied by his usual group of people. Without even listening to my explanations, he ordered the Meister to have me given 25 strokes in his presence by an SS [man] who was there. Then, judging that the strokes weren't sufficiently hard, he ordered that I be flogged more vigorously, and this order was then diligently carried out." Morand went on to say that "following the floggings, von Braun made me translate that I deserved much more, that in fact I deserved to be hanged, which certainly would be the fate of the 'Mensch' (good-for-nothing) I was." Morand adds that the man was "one of the inventors of the V-2" and frequently made "rapid inspections" of his work area.
This description of "von Braun" is closer to Magnus in his role at the rocket factory than that of Wernher, who visited only occasionally. Neufeld raises the possibility of an identity error in Morand's recollections: "In September 1944, Wernher assigned his younger brother Magnus, a chemical engineer and Luftwaffe pilot, as his special liaison to the Mittelwerk, particularly for servomotor production, which was afflicted with serious technical problems. Magnus von Braun stayed in the Nordhausen area full-time until the evacuation of April, 1945. In contrast, his older brother visited the Mittelwerk, by his estimates, twelve or fifteen times in total. Morand gives the time of the incident as the 'second half of 1944,' which corresponds to Magnus von Braun's assignment to the factory, and the testimonial never actually gives 'von Braun' a last name."
In a footnote to this same 2002 article, Neufeld refers to another incident on the record. A Dora survivor named Robert Cazabonne reported "that a fellow prisoner witnessing a hanging in the tunnel pointed out one of the German onlookers and said, 'That's VON BRAUN!'" Neufeld concludes, "We know with near certainty that Wernher von Braun was not there; however, it might have been his brother Magnus, as civilian employees were expected to attend."
Neufeld continues, "Morand's story necessarily brings Jouanin's identification into question, as both deal with servomotors. Although Jouanin's first instinct on timing was early May 1944, when I wrote him about it, he was less than certain. The description of a man in his thirties he saw only once fits Wernher von Braun better than Magnus, however. In the end, it is impossible to say with certainty that Georges Jouanin's identification of Wernher von Braun can be accepted as meeting a reasonable standard of certainty, as believable as I find it personally. Nor can we conclude with assurance that Magnus von Braun was responsible ..."
These prisoner recollections of a sadistic scientist named von Braun stalking the Mittelwerk tunnels, especially on occasions when it can be shown that Wernher could not have been there, is not final proof of Magnus's guilt. However, the possibility of the younger brother's involvement in such abuse requires consideration of an unpleasant facet of his personality that was documented in postwar U.S. Army files kept on all former Nazi scientists who worked in the United States.
Magnus was born nearly a decade after his two older brothers, who had come of age before the Nazis took power in Germany. Unlike them, Magnus had a National Socialist adolescence. While the older brothers can be seen as having joined the Nazi party for reasons of professional advancement, Magnus signed on to fascism at a point in life before such concerns became important. His was an ideological commitment. He was thirteen when Hitler became chancellor and thus participated in the Hitler Youth organization and experienced a secondary school environment and curriculum adapted to fascism. His politicized early years naturally influenced his character. Even after the war, Magnus stood apart from Wernher by his displays of arrogance and aristocratic pretension, duly noted by the Army officers who kept files on both men after their 1945 immigration to the United States. Sigismund, the eldest brother, became a diplomatic attaché for the German government in 1936 and passed his war years in Vatican City on consular duty. Though a Nazi party member like his brothers, he avoided direct complicity with regime atrocities such as slave labor and was able to join the new West German foreign service after the war. He rose to become a notable diplomat for West Germany during the 1960s and 1970s.

Surrender at Reutte
After evacuating from Nordhausen, Magnus von Braun was at the Behelfsheim in Weilheim when Wernher von Braun arrived there from Oberammergau on 14 April 1945.  The next day, Magnus had arrived at the Haus Ingeborg in Oberjoch by the end of the day. When Huzel became von Braun's assistant, Dr. Kurt Debus became Engineer in Charge of Test Stand VII—Huzel had served since May 1944 after replacing his old friend Hartmut Kuechen. The Mittelwerk was designated for production after the 17 August 1943 Operation Hydra bombing of Peenemünde, and production started well afterward, so Magnus von Braun's claim that he was selected to transfer in October 1943 is inaccurate.  After hearing the radio report of Hitler's death, Wernher von Braun announced to his group early in the morning of 3 May 1945 that "Magnus, who speaks English, has just left by bicycle to establish contact with the American forces at Reutte.  We cannot wait here forever."  "It was quite courageous for Magnus to come down on his bicycle and find the American troops," said Dr. Ernst Stuhlinger,  member of the V-2 team. "He had a white handkerchief tied to the handlebars of the bicycle and that was all he had to protect him."
On May 10, 1919, I was born in Greifswald, the son of a government administrator, Magnus Freiherr von Braun, and his wife, Emmy, née von Quistorp. I spent my youth in Berlin, where I attended the Prep School and the French School until Easter 1934.  Finally, I went to the Hermann Lietz School in Spiekeroog, North Sea, a boarding school from which I graduated Easter 1937.  After having spent six months in the Arbeitsdienst, I began studies at the Technical Institute of Munich in the fall of 1937, majoring in organic chemistry.  Then when I received my master's degree, I became the assistant in organic chemistry to Professor Hans Fischer (Nobel Prize winner in chemistry) for ¼ year, at which time I was drafted into the Air Force (October 1940).  After the completion of flight training and a short stay as a flight instructor, I came to the Heimat Artillery Park II, Kalshagen, in July 1943.  In Karlshagen, I worked with Mr. Gerhard Heller, the director of fuel chemistry, who put me in charge of hypergolic fuels for the newly developing Wasserfall Project.  In this capacity, I worked in conjunction with the I. G. Farben Industry.  In October 1943, my brother, Professor Wernher von Braun, requested me to work as his personal assistant.
About two in the afternoon, Magnus returned, "I think it went well, I have safe conduct passes and they want us for further interrogation." The Mission Accomplished: The Battle History of the 44th Infantry Division claim that there was a "hectic night of interrogation, plans and counter-proposals" after Magnus von Braun rode his bike downhill in the morning and met members of the "Anti-tank Company, 324th Infantry" "before he went out and in a short time returned with his brother" is inaccurate: Huzel, McGovern, & Ordway, in their researched works, distinctly state Magnus returned about 2 in the afternoon the same day.Dieter Huzel described the surrender of the group: "Thus, in the dull, rainy, late afternoon of Wednesday, May 2, 1945, seven men [Magnus & Wernher, Walter Dornberger, Axster, Huzel, Lindenberg, & Tessman] ... began their lonely descent from Adolf Hitler Pass toward ... Schattwald. ... Suddenly, around a curve, an American soldier ... waved us to a stop.  Magnus got out and showed a piece of paper to the guard ... After about a half an hour, ... we were flanked by two ..."jeeps,"... We reached Reutte after dark.  ... The next morning ... we emerged from the mess hall ... several Army photographers were on hand and spent some time taking pictures." During a photo shoot the next day, Magnus von Braun commented "We're celebrating now, but I'll bet they will throw telephone books at us if we ever reach New York.  By noon, Magnus von Braun (along with Axster, Huzel, Lindenberg, & Tessman) arrived in Peiting where forty other Peenemünde personnel already had arrived, and the Germans departed for Garmisch-Partenkirchen on 8 May.

Operation Paperclip and work at Fort Bliss
Von Braun arrived in New York on 16 November 1945 aboard the SS Argentina and was soon at work at Fort Bliss, Texas and later at Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville, Alabama.  Von Braun was interrogated as a witness for the Andrae war crimes trial in which Mittelwerk general manager Georg Rickhey was acquitted.  Fort Bliss Army CIC agents believed he was a "dangerous German Nazi", with one agent remarking, "his type is a worse threat to security than a half a dozen discredited SS Generals." Soon after his arrival, he was caught trying to sell a brick of platinum he'd stolen from the base to a jeweler in El Paso. The incident was quickly hushed up, though he was informally punished by means of a terrible beating given by his brother Wernher the politician.

Career with Chrysler
In 1955, von Braun began a career with Chrysler—first in the missile division and then in the automotive division. He also resided in Huntsville, Alabama, for a while before moving to Michigan.  After living in Michigan, he relocated to the UK, working in London and Coventry as Chrysler UK export director.  Von Braun retired from Chrysler in 1975 and returned to the States, where he settled in Arizona and resided until his death.
Passage 10:
Von Braun Ferry Rocket
Von Braun Ferry Rocket was a concept design for a shuttle spacecraft that was developed by Wernher von Braun in a seminal series of early-1950s Collier's magazine articles, "Man Will Conquer Space Soon!" by Wernher von Braun et al. The Ferry Rocket concept has evolved over time.

Re-creations
The Ferry Rocket is modeled in the following flight and spaceflight simulators:

Orbiter, a freeware simulator by Martin Schweiger
X-Plane

See also
"Man Will Conquer Space Soon"
Reusable launch system