Passage 1:
Zencap
Zencap was a German company, operating a peer-to-peer lending platform, which allowed private savers to lend money directly to small and medium-sized businesses in Germany, Spain, and the Netherlands. Using the crowdfunding model, the company based in Berlin, Germany aimed to create a direct link between private lenders and small businesses seeking loans. As of December 2014, Zencap had facilitated 5 million Euro in loans to small and medium-sized firms.In October 2015, the company was merged with Funding Circle, being active on UK and US.

Origin
The company, based in Berlin, was founded in March 2014 by Christian Grobe and Matthias Knecht, with support from Rocket Internet.

Lending
The business model resembled the US peer-to-peer lending platform Lending Club and UK-based company Funding Circle.
Zencap facilitated small business loans from 10,000 to 250,000 euros.  Zencap determined whether the borrower was creditworthy and assigned a credit grade that determined the payable interest rate and the fees. Zencap itself charged borrowers a 1% to 4.5% origination fee. The loan period ranged between 6 and 60 months while the loan could be repaid without an early repayment fee at any time. Conditions varied between countries.
Der Tagesspiegel quoted founder Christian Grobe, "We are very strict with the risk assessment." Once approved, businesses posted their loan request on the Zencap marketplace, where private lenders were able to choose which businesses they wanted to lend money to.

Funding Circle acquisition of Zencap
In October 2015, Zencap was acquired by UK based Funding Circle, another lending platform in Europe. Zencap was active in Germany, Spain and the Netherlands. The merge made Funding Circle one of the main peer to business lending leaders in Europe.

See also
Debt-to-income ratio
Comparison of crowd funding services
Disintermediation
Passage 2:
Common pochard
The common pochard (; Aythya ferina) is a medium-sized diving duck. The scientific name is derived from Greek aithuia, an unidentified seabird mentioned by authors including Hesychius and Aristotle, and Latin  ferina, "wild game", from ferus, "wild".

Description
The adult male has a long dark bill with a grey band, a red head and neck, a black breast, red eyes and a grey back. The adult female has a brown head and body and a narrower grey bill-band. The triangular head shape is distinctive. Pochards are superficially similar to the closely related North American redhead and canvasback. Females give hoarse growls. Males have whistles cut off by a final nasal note aaoo-oo-haa.

Distribution and habitat
Their breeding habitat consists of marshes and lakes with a metre or more water depth. Pochards breed in much of temperate and northern Europe and across the Palearctic. They are migratory, and spend winter in the south and west of Europe.In the British Isles, birds breed in eastern England and lowland Scotland, in small numbers in Northern Ireland with numbers increasing gradually, and sporadically in the Republic of Ireland, where it may also be increasing. While uncommon, individuals are also occasionally seen in the south of England, and small populations are sometimes observed on the River Thames. Large numbers stay overwinter in Great Britain, after the birds retreat from Russia and Scandinavia.

Ecology
These are gregarious birds, forming large flocks in winter, often mixed with other diving ducks such as the tufted duck.
These birds feed mainly by diving or dabbling. They eat aquatic plants with some molluscs, aquatic insects and small fish. They often feed at night, and will up-end for food as well as the more characteristic diving. According to the article 'Patterns in the diving behaviour of the pochard, Aythya ferina: a test of an optimality model' Pochard's have a behavioral preference when it comes to their feeding patterns. This behavioral preference is that Pochards prefer shallower water in comparison to deeper water even though the food concentration in deeper water may be higher.In a number of countries the population of Common Pochard is decreasing mainly due to urbanization of the natural habitats and their transformation, as well as due to overhunting.
The pochard is one of the species to which the Agreement on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds (AEWA) applies.

Gallery
Passage 3:
Business Growth Fund
BGF, established in 2011 as the Business Growth Fund, is an investment company that provides growth capital for small and mid-sized businesses in the UK and Ireland.From a network of 16 offices in the UK and Ireland, the company has invested more than £3 billion in more than 400 small and mid-sized companies. Around three-quarters of its investments have been in companies based outside London and South East England.BGF typically takes minority, non-controlling shareholdings in investee companies. BGF has completed more than 150 exits by selling businesses in its portfolio.

History
BGF was founded in 2011 by Barclays, HSBC, Lloyds Bank, Royal Bank of Scotland and Standard Chartered banks, in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis.The launch followed lobbying of both Conservative and Labour politicians by businessman Sir Nigel Rudd, who had argued for the creation of an organisation to provide equity funding to help close a perceived funding gap for small and mid-sized businesses. A shortfall in funding for small and mid-sized businesses in the UK had been identified as long ago as 1931 by the Macmillan Committee.BGF was seen as a successor to the Industrial and Commercial Finance Corporation (ICFC), set up by the Bank of England in 1945 and subsequently renamed 3i. BGF has been described as the “modern 3i”.Stephen Welton, founding CEO, said that a new organisation was needed because 3i’s business model, in line with the private equity industry generally, had evolved to focus on large buyout deals, meaning it had less of a focus on providing growth capital to small and mid-sized businesses.In 2017, BGF opened an office in Dublin to administer a €250 million fund to invest in small and mid-sized Irish companies. The Irish fund is backed by AIB, Bank of Ireland, Ulster Bank, the Ireland Strategic Investment Fund and BGF’s existing shareholders.BGF’s model has been replicated in Canada with the Canadian Business Growth Fund, launched in 2018 and backed by financial institutions including Royal Bank of Canada, Toronto-Dominion Bank and Manulife. In 2019, the Australian Business Growth Fund was launched with backing from banks including Commonwealth Bank, Westpac, National Australia Bank and ANZ Bank.

Leadership
Andy Gregory has been chief executive officer of BGF since 1 September 2022. He took over from Stephen Welton, formerly of JP Morgan & Co, who led BGF since inception in 2011. From 1 January 2023, Welton will serve as non-executive chair of the business.In 2013, Welton was appointed as an adviser to the government regarding the establishment of the British Business Bank, and, in 2017, he was invited to join the Industry Panel for the UK Government’s Patient Capital Review.

Investment approach
BGF typically makes initial investments of between £2-15 million, with the possibility for follow-on investments.The firm provides patient capital, which has been defined by HM Treasury as “long-term investment in innovative firms led by ambitious entrepreneurs who want to build large-scale businesses”.BGF typically invests as a minority, non-controlling shareholder. Investments are usually structured as ordinary shares, loan notes or a combination.When an investment is sold, the returns are reinvested in the fund. This model has been called an “evergreen balance sheet”.BGF invests in a range of companies including start-ups, growth-stage businesses and quoted companies across almost every region and sector of the UK and Irish economy, barring financial services.BGF has been recognised as the most active growth investor in the world by number of investments, averaging about one investment a week.

Notable investments
Recipe box delivery company Gousto first received funding from BGF in 2015. Gousto became a unicorn in 2020 when it completed a funding round valuing the business at more than $1 billion.
Social video advertising platform Unruly received financing from BGF in a funding round announced in 2012. The business was acquired by News Corp for £58 million in 2015.
M Squared, which develops lasers and photonic optical instruments, received funding from BGF in 2012. BGF exited the majority of its shareholding in the company in 2020 when the Scottish National Investment Bank became a shareholder.

The growth economy
The historian Sir Anthony Seldon has described the market segment of small and mid-sized companies in which BGF seeks to invest as “the growth economy”. Research by PwC found there were 21,400 growth economy companies in the UK in 2018, defined as fast-growing businesses that report turnover of between £2.5-100 million.BGF provides an alternative source of funding for these companies, which have traditionally relied on bank loans to finance growth.
Passage 4:
Hardley Flood
Hardley Flood is a 49.8-hectare (123-acre) biological Site of Special Scientific Interest west of Great Yarmouth in Norfolk. It is part of the Broadland Ramsar site and Special Protection Area, and The Broads Special Area of Conservation.This area of tidal lagoons and reedbeds provides a spillway for the River Chet. The reedbeds provide nesting sites for birds, including nationally important populations of several breeding birds. Three rare flies have been recorded, Elachiptera uniseta, Elachiptera scrobiculata and Lonchoptera scutellata.The site is open to  the public.
Passage 5:
China IPR SME Helpdesk
The China IPR SME Helpdesk is a project funded by the European Commission's Directorate-General for Enterprise and Industry (DG ENTR). It provides European  small and medium-sized enterprises with free, practical support on Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) in China. According to its website, The China IPR SME Helpdesk's mission is to "support European Union (EU) small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) to both protect and enforce their Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) in or relating to China, through the provision of free information and services".A pilot programme of The China IPR SME Helpdesk was established in 2008 under the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme and it was announced in January 2011 that the Helpdesk project has been extended for an additional three years (through the end of 2013).
Passage 6:
Scathophaga
The genus Scathophaga are small to medium sized predatory flies that for the most part, have larvae that feed on other insect larva within animal dung or decaying vegetable matter. Many are highly variable, sometimes producing small, infertile males that superficially resemble females. This species is an example of an organism which may selectively store the sperm of multiple males, as females have three to four spermathecae.

Species
These 99 species belong to the genus Scathophaga:

Data sources: i = ITIS, c = Catalogue of Life, g = GBIF, b = Bugguide.net
Passage 7:
Palmer Hay Flats State Game Refuge
The Palmer Hay Flats State Game Refuge is located in Alaska, south of Wasilla and north of Anchorage. It is composed of 28,800 acres (11,655 ha; 45 sq mi) of coastal marshy areas adjacent to Knik Arm that support populations of moose, muskrat, foxes, coyotes, eagles, and migratory waterfowl. In springtime, tens of thousands of migratory geese, swans, shoebirds, and ducks rest and refuel. Many of these stay in the summer. The Knik River, the Matanuska River, Rabbit Slough, Wasilla Creek, Cottonwood Creek, and Spring Creek flow through it.It is a popular location for hunting, skiing, iceskating, and hiking, and other uses.  It is bisected by the Glenn Highway.
It can be accessed at Rabbit Slough, from the Glenn Highway, Nelson Road, Scout Ridge and other locations.

History
An indigenous people called the Knikatnu first settled the land that would become the Palmer Hay Flats State Game Refuge before Alaskan annexation into the United States. The indigenous people left behind a trail that would become the Iditarod Trail. Prior to the 1964 Alaska earthquake, the land was dry grassland. The name of the refuge stems from the hay farming that went on before the earthquake.
Passage 8:
Gobizkorea
The GobizKOREA is operated by Korean SBC (Small & Medium Business Corporation), a non-profit, government-funded organization established to implement government policies and programs for the growth and development of Korean Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). GobizKorea supports for overseas marketing and promotion of Korean small and medium sized corporations.

Main Activities
Search of Korean companies and products
Business Matching Service between Korean supplier and international buyers
Visitor Assistant Program
Passage 9:
River Chet
The River Chet is a small river in South Norfolk, England, a tributary of the River Yare. It rises in Poringland and flows eastwards through Alpington, Bergh Apton, Thurton and Loddon. At Loddon it passes under the A146 through Loddon Mill and into Loddon Staithe. From this point onwards the river is navigable. It then passes Hardley Flood to the north, a nature reserve part-managed by the Norfolk Wildlife Trust. The river finally joins the River Yare one mile west of Reedham at Hardley Cross, erected in 1676, which marks the ancient boundary between the City of Norwich and the Borough of Great Yarmouth. The total navigable length is some 3½ miles.

Fishing
Fishing is permitted between Loddon and Hardley Cross, bream and roach being the most common catch.

Churches
A number of churches along the river are known as the "Chet Valley Churches". Most belong to the Church of England but they include the Church in Loddon, a combined Anglican and Methodist congregation.
Passage 10:
Chañaral Island
Isla Chañaral (sometimes referred to as Isla Chanaral or Chanaral Island) is located 6 km off-shore from the northern Central Chilean coast, some 100 km north of the city of La Serena. Together with Isla Choros and Isla Damas, the island forms the Humboldt Penguin National Reserve, which is administered by the Chilean Forestry Corporation. All three islands support populations of Humboldt penguins, but are also habitat for several other rare and endangered animal species such as the Peruvian diving petrel or the South American marine otter. In recent years the reserve has experienced a strong increase in tourist activities, mainly due to being an important feeding ground in the summer months of different marine mammal species like fin whales, blue whales, humpback whales, and bottlenose dolphins that reside in the waters of the reserve. The local fishermen formed an association in cooperation with the National Tourism Service Sernatur to conduct whale watching activities in a sustainable manner, implementing responsible whale watching guidelines.
Isla Chañaral is the biggest of the reserve's islands. Access to the island restricted by permit only. The island consists of two plateau levels. The main plateau between 50 and 70 meters above sea level is divided into a western and an eastern part by a second high plateau (>100 m). The vegetation of the plateaus differs considerably. While the main plateau is dominated by shrub and cacti the high plateau has a barren appearance with only few small cactus aggregations.

External links and references
Chanaral Island: the biggest Humboldt Penguin Colony in the world
The Humboldt Penguin Colonies at Chanaral Island, Chile
Humboldt penguins from the International Penguin Conservation Web Site