Passage 1:
KCND
KCND (90.5 FM) is a public radio station licensed to Bismarck. It signed on the air in 1981 as Prairie Public Radio, which later became part of the statewide North Dakota Public Radio network, the entirety of which was later renamed Prairie Public Radio. It currently broadcasts with an effective radiated power of 50 kW on 90.5 MHz.

External links
Prairie Public radio website
KCND in the FCC FM station database
KCND on Radio-Locator
KCND in Nielsen Audio's FM station database
Passage 2:
Eric Plakun
Eric M. Plakun is an American psychiatrist, psychoanalyst, researcher and forensic psychiatrist. He is the current medical director/CEO at the Austen Riggs Center in Stockbridge, Massachusetts. Plakun's primary interests include the mental health advocacy, full implementation of the mental health parity law, access-to-care issues, and reducing health disparities; the value of and evidence base for psychosocial treatments and the diagnosis, treatment, longitudinal course and outcome of patients with borderline personality disorder and treatment resistant disorders. Plakun has been widely published and quoted in the media on psychotherapy and psychiatry, including in The New York Times and The Globe and Mail. He has appeared in the media to discuss his psychiatric work on WAMC, the Albany, New York, affiliate of NPR. and on CBS 60 Minutes. His psychiatric research has been widely cited.

Career
Plakun attended Hofstra University and received an M.D. from the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1972. After an internship in medicine at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Plakun worked as a rural primary care practitioner in Vermont before completing a psychiatric residency also at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center and a Fellowship and Advanced Fellowship in Psychoanalytic Studies at the Austen Riggs Center.
He is a Distinguished Life Fellow of the American Psychiatric Association, and serves on the APA Board of Trustees representing New England and Eastern Canada. He is a former member of the APA Assembly, where he served as chair of the Assembly Committee of Representatives of Subspecialties and Sections and on the Assembly Executive Committee. In the APA he has also been past chair of the Committee on Psychotherapy by Psychiatrists, and the founding leader of the APA Psychotherapy Caucus. Plakun is a Fellow of the American College of Psychiatrists and a Fellow of the American College of Psychoanalysts. He is a Psychoanalytic Fellow and former Trustee of the American Academy of Psychoanalysis and Dynamic Psychiatry. He is an associate editor of the journal Psychodynamic Psychiatry. Plakun also served for more than a decade with the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology as a member of the written test committee and as an oral examiner. In 2003, Plakun was selected by the 1700 member Massachusetts Psychiatric Society as the "Outstanding Psychiatrist in Clinical Psychiatry." In addition, Plakun is a member of the Group for the Advancement of Psychiatry (GAP) Committee on Psychotherapy  and the American College of Psychoanalysts Board of Regents.

APA Psychotherapy Caucus
Plakun led the effort that culminated in the founding of the American Psychiatric Association Psychotherapy Caucus, established in 2014. The purpose of the caucus is to connect APA members who share an interest in psychotherapy and psychosocial treatments as well as to "raise the profile of psychotherapy and psychosocial treatment in psychiatry, and to secure skills in these areas as part of the training and identity of future psychiatrists so the field and its practitioners are practicing within a genuinely biopsychosocial model." The caucus is engaged in a number of advocacy and educational activities and currently has close to 300 members.

Research and writing
Plakun is the editor of New Perspectives on Narcissism (American Psychiatric Press, 1990) and Treatment Resistance and Patient Authority: The Austen Riggs Reader (W.W. Norton & Company, 2011) and author of nearly 100 articles and book chapters on the diagnosis, treatment, longitudinal course and outcome of patients with borderline personality disorder, treatment resistant disorders, and on shared elements of various schools of psychotherapy. An advocate for the value of psychotherapy and psychosocial treatment, Plakun has argued for the full implementation of the Mental Health Parity and Addictions Equity Act, served as Plaintiffs’ expert on adult mental disorders in Wit v. United Behavioral Health federal class-action, and has presented and written about the case. He has also researched and written on what he calls "Psychiatry’s False Assumptions":  [1] genes = disease; [2] patients present with single disorders that respond to specific evidence-based treatments; and [3] the best treatments are pills. Separately, he has written about psychodynamic residential treatment for patients who have encountered an impasse in their treatment and has called for an evidence-based, inclusive reconceptualization of how psychotherapy competencies are presented and taught to residents.

Selected publications
Plakun, Eric M.; Burkhardt, Paul E.; Muller, John P. (September 1985). "14-year follow-up of borderline and schizotypal personality disorders". Comprehensive Psychiatry. 26 (5): 448–455. doi:10.1016/0010-440X(85)90081-1. PMID 4028695.
Plakun, Eric M. (September 1989). "Narcissistic Personality Disorder: A Validity Study and Comparison to Borderline Personality Disorder". Psychiatric Clinics of North America. 12 (3): 603–620. doi:10.1016/S0193-953X(18)30417-9.
Plakun, E. M. (February 1996). "Treatment of personality disorders in an era of limited resources". Psychiatric Services. 47 (2): 128–130. doi:10.1176/ps.47.2.128. PMID 8825245.
Plakun, Eric M (2001). "Making the alliance and taking the transference in work with suicidal patients". The Journal of Psychotherapy Practice and Research. 10 (4): 269–276. PMC 3330670. PMID 11696654.
Plakun, EM (1994). "Principles in the psychotherapy of self-destructive borderline patients". The Journal of Psychotherapy Practice and Research. 3 (2): 138–48. PMC 3330365. PMID 22700187.
Plakun, Eric M. (January 2006). "Finding Psychodynamic Psychiatry's Lost Generation". The Journal of the American Academy of Psychoanalysis and Dynamic Psychiatry. 34 (1): 135–150. doi:10.1521/jaap.2006.34.1.135. PMID 16548752. ProQuest 198147134. Cited in 29 publications.
Plakun, Eric M. (June 1991). "Prediction of Outcome in Borderline Personality Disorder". Journal of Personality Disorders. 5 (2): 93–101. doi:10.1521/pedi.1991.5.2.93. ProQuest 848889730. Cited in 41 publications.
Plakun, Eric M.; Sudak, Donna M.; Goldberg, David (January 2009). "The Y Model: An Integrated, Evidence-Based Approach to Teaching Psychotherapy Competencies". Journal of Psychiatric Practice. 15 (1): 5–11. doi:10.1097/01.pra.0000344914.54082.eb. PMID 19182560. S2CID 2520530.
Sledge, William; Plakun, Eric M; Bauer, Stephen; Brodsky, Beth; Caligor, Eve; Clemens, Norman A; Deen, Serina; Kay, Jerald; Lazar, Susan; Mellman, Lisa A; Myers, Michael; Oldham, John; Yeomans, Frank (2014). "Psychotherapy for suicidal patients with borderline personality disorder: an expert consensus review of common factors across five therapies". Borderline Personality Disorder and Emotion Dysregulation. 1 (1): 16. doi:10.1186/2051-6673-1-16. PMC 4579509. PMID 26401300.
Eric M., Plakun (May 27, 2015). "Correcting Psychiatry's False Assumptions and Implementing Parity". Psychiatric Times. 32 (5).
Passage 3:
Steve Robinson (executive)
Steve Robinson (born September 7, 1946) is an American radio manager, producer and executive producer. He has held senior management positions with numerous American radio stations, including WFMT and the WFMT Radio Network/Chicago, WBUR/Boston, WGBH/Boston, WCRB/Boston, KPFA/Berkeley, WBGO/Newark, Vermont Public Radio and Nebraska Public Radio Network.ork. Robinson served as general manager of the statewide Nebraska Public Radio Network (1990-2000) and WFMT and the WFMT Radio Network from 2000 until October 2016.A 50-year radio veteran, he has produced programs ranging from classical music documentaries to public affairs programs and has directed over 100 on-air pledge drives.

Personal life and career
He was born in Boston in 1946. He completed graduation from Boston University in 1969 with a degree in music education. Robinson started his professional career in 1967 at WBUR/Boston while will an undergraduate at Boston University. At WBUR, he produced and hosted six two-hour classical music programs per week. He also created and co-hosted a Saturday morning live call-in program about high fidelity called Shop Talk which ran from 1968 to 1978.After WBUR, Robinson held positions at WGBH and WCRB/Boston and KPFA/Berkeley. In 1976 he was appointed the first development director of Vermont Public Radio (VPR). At VPR, he won a national award from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB) for “The Sky Report with Professor Delo Mook”, a five-minute daily program about astrophysics that was syndicated throughout the U.S. CPB cited the program for “innovative idea and superb execution.” In 1980, he became the first development director for the newly created Jazz station, WBGO/Jazz88 in Newark. At WBGO, Robinson helped establish the station as one of the most important Jazz stations in the U.S.In 1971, Robinson met multi-reed instrumentalist, Rahsaan Roland Kirk, and worked with him on several projects, including Radio Free Rahsaan, an eight-part series of one-hour radio programs. After Mr. Kirk’s untimely passing in 1977, he produced Memories of Rahsaan, a series of 30-minute programs that became part of Radio Free Rahsaan.In 1984, he co-founded AIR, the Association of Independents in Radio, a service organization to assist independent radio producers in the United States. Robinson wrote AIR’s first two successful grants from the New York State Council on the Arts and the National Endowment for the Arts.In 1990, Robinson became the general manager of the newly formed Nebraska Public Radio Network (NPRN), a nine-station system of transmitters throughout the state that reached over one million listeners.Throughout his career, Robinson has produced dozens of radio programs that have been heard throughout the world, including live broadcasts from Salzburg, Austria (on the occasion of Mozart’s 250th birthday); Durbin, South Africa (for the world premiere for the opera, “Princess Magogo); Quebec City, Canada (for a live broadcast of Mahler’s Symphony of a Thousand with 1000 performers); Jerusalem, Israel (for a broadcast from the Jerusalem International Chamber Music Festival); and has produced numerous live broadcasts from Chicago and throughout the U.S.He has worked with William Schuman, Elliott Carter, Charles Dodge, Roger Reynolds, Alan Hovhaness and other composers on programs about their music. In 2003, he created the daily classical music appreciation radio program, Exploring Music with Bill McGlaughlin. The series is carried by state networks throughout the world including Australia and China. At the WFMT Radio Network he created the first classical music radio exchange between the United States and China.

WFMT and the WFMT Radio Network
In 2000, Robinson became the general manager of WFMT and the WFMT Radio Network. Founded in 1951, WFMT is considered as one of the most admired classical music stations in the U.S. and under his leadership many new programs were added to the local schedule, including Introductions, Impromptu and others. Robinson worked on diversifying the programs of WFMT by expanding the amount of live broadcasting from the station.One of his most important initiatives at the WFMT Radio Network was the creation of Exploring Music with Bill McGlaughlin, in 2003. This daily, one-hour music appreciation program is heard on over 60 U.S. stations and has a weekly audience of over 400,000 unique listeners. The program is also heard in Australia, Guam, the Philippines and in Beijing. Initial funding for Exploring Music was provided by the National Endowment for the Arts with additional funding from individuals and foundations.The station under his leadership focused on live music by broadcasting a wide array of local Chicago groups and ensembles. In 2007, the Chicago Tribune named him “Chicagoan of the Year” in the arts.In 2015, he executed a cross-cultural broadcast relationship between America and China by exporting to China for the first time broadcasting concerts by the NY Philharmonic, LA Philharmonic, San Francisco Symphony, Dallas Symphony, Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center and Carnegie Hall. He also arranged for concerts from the Shanghai Spring International Music Festival and the Shanghai Symphony Orchestra to be exported to the West with broadcasts in the U.S., Canada and Europe.In 2022, Robinson launched a YouTube channel for his series, The Architects of Music with Lawrence Rapchak.

Other work
In 2004 and again in 2010, Robinson created and produced two, live, 17-hour fundraising campaigns involving all Chicago radio and TV stations to aid victims of the tsunami in southeast and the earthquake in Haiti. Each campaign raised over $3 million. Robinson received two Wesbury Award from the American Red Cross of Greater Chicago for the fundraising campaigns.In 2008, Robinson and Bill McGlaughlin received the Dushkin Award for Exploring Music with Bill McGlaughlin from the Music Institute of Chicago. He has received local and national awards for his work in Chicago, including the Champion Award from the Merit School of Music, the ASCAP/Deems Taylor Award for creative programming and others.
Passage 4:
New Jersey Network
The New Jersey Network (NJN) was a network of public television and radio stations serving the U.S. state of New Jersey.  NJN was a member of the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) for television and the National Public Radio (NPR) for radio, broadcasting their programming as well as producing and broadcasting their own programming, mostly relating to issues in New Jersey.  With studios in both Trenton and Newark, NJN's television network covered all of New Jersey, plus parts of Pennsylvania, New York, Connecticut and Delaware.  The radio network primarily served several areas of New Jersey that were not covered by Philadelphia and New York City public radio stations.
New Jersey Network ended operations on June 30, 2011.  The television network was succeeded by NJTV (now branded as "NJ PBS"), and the radio stations were split through two separate sales to NPR-member stations in Philadelphia and New York.

Early history
The system was founded in 1968 by an act of the New Jersey Legislature establishing the New Jersey Public Broadcasting Authority (NJPBA).  New Jersey already had a public television station licensed within the state, WNET (channel 13), licensed to Newark. However, while WNET had offices and studios in Newark, for all practical purposes it was a New York City station, effectively leaving New Jersey without a public station of its own.
With state funding and four UHF licenses assigned years earlier by the Federal Communications Commission, the NJPBA went to work building the state's public television stations. The first station, WNJT (channel 52) in Trenton, went on the air on April 5, 1971, with the other three stations signing on over the next two years. The system was known on-air as New Jersey Public Television (NJPTV) until 1981, when it adopted the New Jersey Network identity.
Due to New Jersey being split between the New York City and Philadelphia television markets, NJN's television network reached one of the largest potential audiences in the country. At the time of its closure, it potentially reached over 25 million people in parts of five states. However, it also forced NJN to compete directly against three of the highest-rated PBS stations in the nation–WNET, secondary New York City member station WLIW, and Wilmington, Delaware-licensed WHYY-TV, in the Philadelphia market. Two other PBS member stations based in Pennsylvania, WLVT-TV in Allentown and WVIA-TV in Scranton, were also viewable in portions of NJN's coverage area.
NJN spent most of its existence trying to carve out a niche of its own. One of its solutions had been to air some of the more popular PBS shows on a delayed basis, after the nearby stations had carried the national PBS feed. Programs that might be seen on WNET and WHYY-TV would air on NJN a week or two later.  Another solution was to focus on its news operation. The latter worked very well, as NJN and its reporters won many awards for their journalistic efforts. In the 1980s, NJN was the first media outlet to break the "Taggart affair" political patronage scandal. NJN's news and public affairs programming was initially co-produced by WNET until 1981, and continued simulcasting on WNET for several years afterward. This was part of a longstanding agreement between the FCC, New Jersey officials, and WNET that allowed WNET to fulfill its local programming obligations (since it was still licensed to Newark).
NJN's radio network began operation on May 20, 1991, when WNJT-FM in Trenton started operations. Eight other stations were established over the following seventeen years. They served mainly to bring NPR programming to the few areas of New Jersey without a clear signal from New York's WNYC AM-FM and Philadelphia's WHYY-FM.
In the immediate aftermath of the September 11 attacks of 2001, the station temporarily broadcast WABC-TV.

Transition
In 2008, in the face of a proposed 35 percent cut in funding, NJN officials asked the state legislature for permission to become an independent nonprofit entity. Under this proposal, the state network would have likely been transferred to its nonprofit fundraising arm, the NJN Foundation. Two consultants looking into fundraising options speculated that breaking off from the state would have triggered an avalanche of private funding.After assuming the office of New Jersey Governor in 2010, Chris Christie voiced his support for transforming NJN into a not-for-profit organization in his March 2010 budget speech. Christie believed the state taxpayers should not have to support a TV and radio network which many never watched or listened to, a stand in keeping with the growing Republican interest at the time in populism.
On October 15, 2010, a bipartisan legislative task force called for a "dramatic reconfiguration" of the state network, but not full privatization. Christie nonetheless moved forward with plans to remove state funding. On November 17, NJN handed termination notices to 130 employees, leading to speculation that the state network would shut down on January 1, 2011, when funding from the state would end. On December 17, 2010, Governor Christie signed legislation to transfer the state network to independent funding. The legislation also suspended the layoffs.

Endgame
On June 6, 2011, the split of NJN's radio and television operations was announced by Gov. Christie.  They were as follows:
Television: WNET assumed control of NJN's television stations for what was, initially, a five-year term under a new nonprofit entity called Public Media NJ. The television network was renamed NJTV, and promised to feature increased coverage of news and issues pertinent to New Jersey, as well as programming from the WNET and PBS libraries. Caucus Educational Corporation, which produces Caucus: New Jersey, serves as a producing partner with NJTV for New Jersey-focused public affairs programming. The agreement did not include transfer of the station licenses, which were retained by the New Jersey Public Broadcasting Authority; the contracts are instead tantamount to local management agreements in commercial broadcasting which nominally do not require approval from the FCC. Ironically, NJN was created in part due to concerns that WNET and WHYY-TV were not adequately serving the New Jersey portions of their service area.
Radio: NJN's radio network was divided in a pair of multi-station sales, with New York Public Radio (owners of WNYC-AM-FM in New York City and Newark-licensed WQXR-FM) acquiring four stations and WHYY-FM in Philadelphia obtaining the other five. New York Public Radio used its stations to start a new New Jersey-oriented network, New Jersey Public Radio, while WHYY turned its new acquisitions into repeaters of WHYY-FM. These sales were approved by the FCC on August 29, 2011.On June 23, 2011, the New Jersey State Assembly voted, 45 to 30, in favor of rejecting the WNET/Caucus proposal for transfer of control of the NJN television stations. The state Senate, however, passed the resolution on June 27 by a 20 to 19 margin, allowing the deal to go into effect as scheduled on July 1. All 130 NJN employees, who had been New Jersey state civil servants, either retired, were reassigned to other state agencies, or were terminated as a result of the system's closure.The last scheduled program aired on NJN television was Theatre Talk, which was followed by a previously-aired news report and a pre-taped farewell message by Janice Selinger, NJN's acting executive director. NJN's website, www.njn.net, was archived and remained active for about a year after the shutdown; it redirected to the NJTV webpage, www.njtvonline.org for some time afterward. However, as of September 2014, it no longer redirected to that website, as the domain name was sold. Some of NJN's in-house public affairs programs, such as Due Process, On the Record and Reporters Roundtable, were picked up by, and continue to air on, its successor, NJTV.

Television
The NJN television stations were:

Camden: WNJS (channel 23/RF 22)
Montclair: WNJN (channel 50/RF 51)1
New Brunswick: WNJB (channel 58/RF 8)
Trenton: WNJT (channel 52/RF 43)
Notes
1 WNJN used the callsign WNJM (the M standing for Montclair) from 1973 sign-on to 1994.Signal ReachWNJS: all of southern New Jersey (including, Camden, Haddon Township, Atlantic City), as well as Philadelphia and Wilmington, Delaware
WNJN: all of northern New Jersey (including Newark, Jersey City and Paterson), as well as southern New York state (New York City and western Long Island) and a small portion of southwestern Connecticut
WNJT: most of central New Jersey (including the city of Trenton, Monmouth, Mercer and Ocean counties)
WNJB: most of north-central New Jersey (including, New Brunswick, Hunterdon, Somerset and Middlesex counties)

Digital television
The state network's digital signals were multiplexed:

After NJN ceased operations and WNET took over the operations of NJN, NJN Kids was removed and sub-channel .3 remained with no programming. In October 2017, the third sub-channel was removed and the .2 sub-channel began broadcasting NHK World.

Analog-to-digital conversion
The four NJN stations shut down their analog signals on June 12, 2009, as part of the DTV transition in the United States. Each of the four NJN stations remained on their pre-transition digital assignments using PSIP to display virtual channels for each NJN station corresponding to their former analog channel numbers.

Television Programming
Original materials from New Jersey Public Broadcasting Authority have been contributed to the American Archive of Public Broadcasting.

NJN-produced
Another View
Caucus: New Jersey
Classroom Close-up, NJ
Congress Watch
Due Process
Homeless Tails
Images/Imagenes
Inside Trenton
New Jersey Works
NJN Classics
NJN News
On the Record
Reporters Roundtable
Shepherd's Pie (monologue program hosted by Jean Shepherd)
State of the Arts
Tomorrow's Medicine Today (produced by Medical Missions for Children)
The Uncle Floyd Show (aired in the 1980s)

Lottery Drawings
NJN aired live drawings from the New Jersey Lottery until the network's closure in 2011, at which point the Lottery began live-streaming its drawings (via Ustream, and later Livestream).
NJN's successor, NJTV, aired Lottery drawings from September 2011 through the end of 2012; on January 1, 2013, the drawings moved to two CBS-owned stations, WLNY-TV in the New York area and WPSG in Philadelphia. As of 2016, these drawings are now aired on WPIX in New York and WPHL-TV in Philadelphia.

Radio
Unlike its television counterpart, NJN Radio covered mainly southern New Jersey, with only two transmitters in the northern part of the state. Due to the crowded state of the noncommercial end of the FM dial in the northeastern United States, the nine stations all operated at relatively low power. Much of the programming came from NPR and other public radio suppliers, with a simulcast of the audio of the television network's NJN News weekday evenings following All Things Considered.

Stations acquired by WHYY, Inc., simulcasting WHYY-FM:Stations acquired by New York Public Radio:
Passage 5:
WPPR
WPPR (88.3) is a public radio station in Demorest, Georgia.  Originally, WPPR had the call letters WDEM (Radio Demorest), but changed to WPPR on August 19, 1996. It is part of the Georgia Public Broadcasting radio network, which in turn is a member of National Public Radio, Public Radio International, and American Public Media. Unlike many stations of the GPB network, WPPR does not only broadcast simulcasts from GPB. WPPR also produces its own programming about the local area including Habersham County. One of the community features, Community Life in Northeast Georgia, is an educational and informative program about an area that is not well known. WPPR's studios are located on the Piedmont College campus in Demorest. This allows for Piedmont Mass Communications students to work directly with WPPR as interns.

See also
List of radio stations in Georgia (U.S. state)
Piedmont College
Passage 6:
Minnesota Public Radio
Minnesota Public Radio (MPR), is a public radio network for the state of Minnesota. With its three services, News & Information, YourClassical MPR and The Current, MPR operates a 46-station regional radio network in the upper Midwest.
MPR has won more than 875 journalism awards, including the Peabody Award, both the RTNDA Edward R. Murrow Award and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting award of the same name, and the Alfred I. duPont-Columbia University Gold Baton Award. As of September 2011, MPR was equal with WNYC for most listener support for a public radio network, and had the highest level of recurring monthly donors of any public radio network in the United States.MPR also produces and distributes national public radio programming via its subsidiary American Public Media, which is the second-largest producer of public radio programming in the United States, and largest producer and distributor of classical music programming.

History
Minnesota Public Radio began on January 22, 1967, when KSJR-FM first signed on from the campus of Saint John's University in Collegeville, just outside St. Cloud. Colman Barry, then president of Saint John's, saw promise in the then-relatively-new technology of FM radio, and believed radio was an appropriate extension of Saint John's cultural and artistic functions to the broader community. He hired a 23-year-old graduate of St. John's, William H. Kling, as director of broadcasting.It soon became apparent that St. Cloud and surrounding Stearns County did not have enough listeners for the station to be viable, so Kling more than tripled KSJR's power in hopes of reaching the Twin Cities. However, it only provided grade B coverage to Minneapolis and the western portion of the metro, and completely missed St. Paul and the east. Realizing that the station needed to cover the Twin Cities to have a realistic chance of survival, St. John's started KSJN, a low-powered repeater station for the Twin Cities, in 1968. The operation was awash in debt, and by 1969, St. John's realized it did not have the adequate financial or personnel resources to operate a full-fledged noncommercial radio station. With Barry's support, Saint John's transferred KSJR/KSJN's assets to a community corporation, St. John's University Broadcasting. This corporation later changed its name to Minnesota Educational Radio, and finally Minnesota Public Radio. Kling led MPR as president and CEO for 44 years, before retiring in 2011.MPR was a charter member of National Public Radio in 1971, and had helped lay the groundwork for forming that organization during 1969 and 1970. In 1971, the network moved its operations from Collegeville to St. Paul, funded in part with a news programming "demonstration" grant from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. New studios were built and KSJN became the flagship station. During the 1970s, additional stations were added and the network expanded across Minnesota. It was during this period KSJN's news department won numerous regional and national awards and became one of the region's most highly-regarded news operations.
In 1974, MPR began live broadcasting of Garrison Keillor's A Prairie Home Companion, one of the best-known programs on public radio, from the Park Square Theatre in Saint Paul. In the early days of the program, members of the production staff were said to have to work hard to fill the theatre seats, sometimes bringing in radio station staff and urging passersby to come into the theatre from the street outside. In 1980, MPR originated the Peabody Award-winning show, Saint Paul Sunday, which went national via syndication in 1981.
MPR assisted in 1983 with the formation of American Public Radio - now known as Public Radio International, which merged with Public Radio Exchange in 2019.
Originally, MPR played a mix of classical music and NPR news/talk programming. However, as NPR expanded its offerings, Kling made plans to split MPR into separate classical and news/talk networks. MPR sought to buy a second FM frequency in the Twin Cities from the late 1970s onward. As a fallback, in 1980 it bought WLOL (AM 1330), one of the oldest stations in Minnesota, and changed its calls to KSJN (AM), a simulcast of KSJN-FM. In 1989, AM 1330 changed its calls to KNOW and began airing an expanded lineup of NPR programming. In 1991, MPR bought WLOL-FM, AM 1330's former FM sister, allowing it to finally split its services into two networks. The KNOW call letters and intellectual unit, including the NPR news and talk format, moved to KSJN's old frequency of 91.1. The KSJN calls moved to WLOL-FM's former frequency of 99.5, which began playing classical music full-time.
MPR acquired Marketplace Productions, which produces Marketplace, "Marketplace Morning Report" and "Marketplace Money" from studios in Los Angeles, in association with the University of Southern California, in 2000. That same year, MPR founded Southern California Public Radio, which entered into a public service operating agreement with Pasadena City College to run KPCC in Pasadena, California. In 2004, MPR began distributing its own shows through American Public Media, leaving PRI; APM was the third radio network in the U.S. to have received founding support from MPR, probably an unmatched record for an American radio station or network.In 2004, MPR announced it would buy WCAL (89.3 FM), the classical music station operated by St. Olaf College in Northfield, Minnesota. WCAL (and a repeater station, KMSE in Rochester), were sold in a deal valued at $10.5 million, which was approved by the Federal Communications Commission in 2004. The next year, following the acquisition by MPR, WCAL changed its call letters to KCMP and was transformed into MPR's third service, "The Current".
In 2008, a WCAL advocacy group took St. Olaf College to court for breach of trust in selling the radio station. (A June 2008 judge's opinion described the station as a charitable trust and therefore, not the college's property to freely dispose of. [1] MPR's General Counsel and three attorneys took part in the proceedings.[2] However, a 2009 court found in favor of MPR due to its ruling that the statute of limitations on the matter had expired, nullifying the advocacy group's standing.)
Today, MPR serves a regional audience of one million listeners through 43 stations presenting three broadcast network services.
Original materials from Minnesota Public Radio have been contributed to the American Archive of Public Broadcasting.

Services
With the addition of later stations, MPR originally offered a mix of classical music and NPR news/talk programming on a single service. Beginning in 1991, MPR's programming split in two, forming separate news and classical music services (although one station in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan still carries a combination of those two services). The 2005 acquisition of WCAL in Northfield, Minnesota, which covers the Minneapolis-St. Paul and Rochester areas, provided the opportunity to launch another music service, "The Current." This third service has gradually expanded to most of southern eastern Minnesota.

MPR News
MPR's news and information service includes a mix of locally produced programs and national/international shows. The flagship station is KNOW-FM (91.1 FM) in the Twin Cities.
The MPR newsroom has garnered international acclaim, most recently earning the inaugural Knight News Innovation EPpy Award in 2008. MPR's newsroom is known for its Public Insight Network, a database of citizen sources who contribute their expertise on a wide array of topics. The Public Insight Network grew to 140,000 sources in 2011 and partners with other news media, journalism schools, foundations and community groups.
As of 2022, 24 full power stations carry MPR's News and Information service and various translator signals around the state offer additional coverage.
MPRNews.org is a non-profit news website maintained by MPR. This online news source covers issues that affect the state including politics, business, education, health, environment and the economy. MPR News offers headline news, video, blogs, audio and multiple ways for readers to become involved in the news-making process.

YourClassical MPR
MPR's classical music network is carried on 18 full power stations and various translators offer additional coverage. The flagship station is KSJN (99.5 FM) in the Twin Cities. In April 2021, the station rebranded as YourClassical MPR, aligning it with the umbrella branding used for American Public Media's digital classical music platforms and nationally-distributed programming. Most of the network's schedule is a simulcast of APM's Classical 24 network, although a statewide morning show airs Monday-Friday, an afternoon drive request show airs Friday and the network airs various specials and live broadcasts. The HD 2 signal of KSJN-FM offers a 24 hour feed of the Classical 24 network.
On September 10, 2020, Garrett McQueen, the host of Classical 24's Music Through the Night, and MPR's only African-American classical music host, was terminated by American Public Media for "not following programming guidelines." According to McQueen, he was "given two warnings — one of which was about his need to improve communication and the other warning was for switching out scheduled music to play pieces he felt were more appropriate to the moment and more diverse."

The Current
MPR's third service, The Current, debuted on January 24, 2005, and airs an Adult album alternative format.
Several people on The Current's initial staff are well known in the area for previous work at stations that highlight music from Minnesota and the Upper Midwest. Many of the staffers and on-air personalities came from other similar stations, such as the University of Minnesota's KUOM, community-oriented KFAI, and commercial alternative rock outlets REV 105 and Cincinnati, Ohio's WOXY.com.
Programming on The Current is mostly locally produced. The flagship station is KCMP (89.3 FM), licensed to Northfield on the southeastern periphery of the Twin Cities, though the signal covers most of the metro area. A lower-power station, KMSE (88.7 FM), serves Rochester and southeastern Minnesota, KZIO (104.3 FM) serves the Duluth area, and translators offer additional coverage in other parts of the state. The service is also carried as an HD service on several of MPR's full power stations. KPCC, the NPR affiliate in Los Angeles operated by MPR's parent company, APM, carries The Current on its HD 2 signal. The Current also streams online in a variety of formats.

Additional services
Minnesota Public Radio also programs several other music services, all available online, with a few offered on HD Radio in the Twin Cities area.
Carbon Sound is the newest MPR service, focused on R&B music and Black artists. In addition to streaming online, it is available on the HD 2 subchannel of KCMP in the Twin Cities.
Local Current is a service programmed by the staff of The Current, and features music from Minnesota artists. The service streams online.
Purple Current is an R&B and Hip-Hop service inspired by Prince.
Rock The Cradle is also programmed by personnel at The Current, and airs a variation of their AAA format, with music geared toward children and parents. It is available via a separate webstream.
Radio Heartland features an eclectic mix of acoustic, Americana and roots music. The service can be found on the HD2 subchannel of KNOW-FM and also via a separate webcast. KNOW-FM also features an HD3 subchannel consisting of programming from NPR and the BBC World Service. The signal carries additional hours of Morning Edition and All Things Considered not available on KNOW's main signal. Several other NPR and APM shows air on the service.
Subsidiary Communications Authority (SCA's) are used to transmit a Minnesota version of the Radio Talking Book Network to disabled listeners around the state, in cooperation with Minnesota State Services for the Blind. MPR also serves as the radio backbone for the radio portion of the state's Emergency Alert System, and as the backbone for the state's AMBER Alert System.
MPR owns WGGL, the NPR affiliate serving Houghton, Michigan. The station airs a combination of NPR News, BBC World Service and Classical 24 programming. While MPR supplies weather updates, local MPR programming and news updates are not aired on the station. KWRV in Sun Valley, Idaho, is also owned by MPR and airs a 24 hour classical music format, supplied by APM's Classical 24. 5 minute NPR news updates are inserted during the morning and afternoon drives. Like the station in Michigan, MPR airs local weather to KWRV, but the station strictly airs national programming.

Programs
Funding
Minnesota Public Radio is a nonprofit, 501(c)(3) organization and relies on contributions from listeners, foundations, educational partners and corporations for its general operations. It also receives support through underwriting on the air and on the Web.
Listener contributions, corporations, foundations and educational partners account for approximately 60 percent of MPR's total budget. Additional funding is provided by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. The State of Minnesota provides modest capital grants to upgrade infrastructure and equipment in greater Minnesota, but does not provide operating funding to the organization. MPR also receives operating funding through the sale of on-air and online underwriting.
The for-profit Rivertown Trading Company, once a subsidiary of MPR's parent company, was sold in 1998 for $124 million. Profits went toward creating MPR's endowment, a percentage of which contributes to MPR's overall annual budget.

Broadcast coverage
Minnesota Public Radio broadcasts on several dozen stations that serve Minnesota and its neighboring communities and various translators providing additional local coverage. Stations are located in Minnesota, South Dakota (Brookings and Sioux Falls), Michigan (Houghton), Iowa (Decorah), and Idaho (Sun Valley). MPR also operates KPCC in Pasadena, California.
Most areas are served by both a classical music station and a news and information station. Duluth and Rochester are served by a classical music station, a news and information station, and The Current.
MPR's newest service, The Current, is available in Austin, Hinckley, Mankato, the Twin Cities, New Ulm, Rochester, St. Cloud (Collegeville) and St. Peter.
Minnesota Public Radio also broadcasts all three of its services – News, Classical and The Current – on HD Radio in several communities throughout the state of Minnesota. In the Twin Cities, MPR multicasts Classical 24, an additional news service and Purple Current.

See also
American Public Media
Saint Paul Sunday
Public Insight Journalism (a newsgathering and networking initiative founded by MPR)
Independent Public Radio (another public radio network in Minnesota, also known as AMPERS)
Passage 7:
WAMC
WAMC-FM (90.3 FM) is a non-commercial educational radio station licensed to Albany, New York, United States, featuring a public radio format. Owned by "WAMC Northeast Public Radio" with a legal name of "WAMC", WAMC-FM's primary signal encompasses the Capital District, along with parts of eastern New York, southern Vermont, Western Massachusetts and the Litchfield Hills region as the regional affiliate for National Public Radio (NPR), American Public Media, Public Radio Exchange and the BBC World Service. The station's reach is extended into west-central Connecticut, northeastern Pennsylvania and the Monadnock Region, Champlain Valley, Skylands Region and North Country areas, along with portions of Quebec, via a network of twelve full-power repeaters and sixteen low-power translators. One of these satellite stations operates on the AM band, WAMC (1400 AM) in Albany.Unlike many NPR stations around the U.S. which use mostly outside programming, much of WAMC's schedule is produced in-house. WAMC is a charitable, educational, non-commercial broadcaster meeting the requirements of Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. §501(c)(3)) It had total annual revenues for the fiscal year 2010 of $6.36 million. The station operates The Linda, WAMC's Performing Arts Studio, near its Central Avenue studios in Albany. WAMC-FM's corporate officers include Dottie Reyonolds, chair of the board of trustees, and Alan S. Chartock, past president and chief executive officer.

History
Albany Medical Center
WAMC signed on the air in October 1958. Albert P. Fredette served as the first general manager. WAMC was put on the air by the local hospital and medical school, Albany Medical Center and Albany Medical College. Albany Medical Center is a large tertiary-care hospital serving the upper Hudson Valley, and the medical school is one of the country's ACGME-accredited medical schools. The affiliation with Albany Medical College was the source of the call sign WAMC. In 1981, the station became an independent institution, no longer associated with the medical school.
In its early days, WAMC had a mostly classical music radio format. The earliest years also included broadcasts of health information and lectures from visiting medical professors. Early on, part of WAMC's regular programming was the broadcast of live concerts by the Boston Symphony Orchestra from Tanglewood and Boston. When the NPR network was founded in 1970, WAMC signed on as one of NPR's original 90 "charter" members.

Separating from the medical school
Around 1980, financial pressures caused the hospital and medical school to begin divesting the station. In 1981, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) license on 90.3 FM was transferred to a 501c3 tax-exempt entity, WAMC, Inc., which had been set up by a group of five corporators, including the current CEO and president, Alan S. Chartock. WAMC was initially affiliated with the State University of New York and New York State government.
In the years since the transfer, the station has eliminated classical music, except for live BSO concerts. It has become a producer of information-based, non-music programming, providing a variety of interview-format programs to radio stations across the country via the station's in-house subsidiary, National Productions. (WMHT-FM in nearby Schenectady and its network of repeater stations continues to program classical music in the region.)

Expanding the network
Listener contributions (often obtained during periodic pledge drives) and corporate contributions have helped the original single station grow over the years into a network of 22 facilities with large primary service contours covering the Capital District, the Adirondacks section of New York State, Western Massachusetts, Southern Vermont, and parts of New Hampshire, Connecticut, Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
It has been a custom on WAMC to play two songs to mark the end of every fund drive: Kate Smith's "God Bless America" and Ray Charles' rendition of "America the Beautiful". The station's February 2017 fund drive raised over $1,000,000 in less than one day.The main 90.3 mHz signal has an effective radiated power (ERP) of 10,000 watts, which on paper is somewhat modest for a full NPR member on the FM band. However, its height above average terrain (HAAT) of 600 meters (2,000 ft) gives it one of the largest coverage areas of any NPR station in the Northeast. It provides at least grade B coverage to most of east-central New York (including the Capital District), southwestern Vermont, western Massachusetts, southwestern New Hampshire, and northwestern Connecticut.

Mount Greylock
While WAMC-FM is based in Albany, its transmitter is actually in Massachusetts. WAMC-FM's antenna tower is atop Mount Greylock in Adams, in the Mount Greylock State Reservation. It is the tallest mountain in Massachusetts. The transmitter had formerly been a tenant on the tower, which was built and maintained by the Albany ABC-TV affiliate WTEN (channel 10) for its satellite station for the Berkshire region and Pittsfield, WCDC. WCDC had broadcast on channel 19 but that signal was shut down in 2017. The tower also features a radio facility for the Massachusetts State Police and a translator station for the Albany NBC affiliate, WNYT (channel 13).
On December 22, 2017, WAMC entered into an agreement to purchase the Mount Greylock WCDC transmitter and tower from the owner of WTEN/WCDC, Nexstar Media Group, for just above $1 million. WCDC-TV had gone permanently silent on November 19, 2017, two weeks ahead of a planned December 1 shutdown amid declining over-the-air viewership, following damage to the station's transmission line in a storm. The TV station license was surrendered for cancellation on February 12, 2018, as a result of the FCC's 2016 spectrum auction for $34.5 million in compensation. Due to the tower sitting on Massachusetts Department of Conservation and Recreation land, as well as WTEN's lease on the land having expired two years prior, WAMC-FM could have been taken off the air if it had not purchased the facility. WAMC now owns the tower itself, but not the land beneath, which is under lease with the MDCR until 2025.

Accusations of bias
NPR's official news policy says its affiliate stations should be "fair, unbiased, accurate, honest, and respectful of the people that are covered". A Washington-based NPR news producer, who requested anonymity, stated that Chartock, the station's president and a frequently heard voice on the station, presents politically-biased commentary.Chartock responded that WAMC's editorial neutrality is maintained by "including as many conservative commentators on the air as liberal ones".

First Amendment Fund
In 2005, WAMC's board of trustees established a "First Amendment Fund" to promote and preserve the First Amendment and the right of free speech by providing a source of funding "to support WAMC if special situations or needs should arise". The contributions in this "unrestricted, board designated" fund reported on WAMC's 2006 IRS tax forms was $482,577.

Other stations
WAMC-FM extends its signal throughout much of New York and portions of Pennsylvania, Connecticut, New Jersey, Vermont and Massachusetts, along with portions of Quebec, via the following network of full-power satellite stations and low-power analog translators:

Repeaters
Translators
Programs
WAMC syndicates many of its shows to other public radio stations. These programs include... 

Legislative Gazette
Women's news show 51% with Jesse King
Environmental news show Earth Wise
Person Place Thing with Randy Cohen
The Academic Minute with Lynn Pasquerella
Ideas show The Best Of Our Knowledge with Bob Barrett
Author interview program The Book Show with Joe Donahue
The Capitol Connection with Alan S. Chartock
Media criticism show The Media Project.

See also
David Guistina
Passage 8:
AMPERS
AMPERS (Association of Minnesota Public Educational Radio Stations) is an association of 18 independent community radio stations in Minnesota. Each station is locally managed and programmed by and for the local community it serves. AMPERS is the largest statewide association of community radio stations in the United States. The stations primarily serve underserved populations including greater Minnesota, diverse communities, and students for a combined audience of about 300,000 listeners. AMPERS has no affiliation with Minnesota Public Radio (MPR) and receives no financial support from MPR.

AMPERS Member Stations
External links
AMPERS
Passage 9:
KMXT (FM)
KMXT (100.1 FM) is an NPR–member non-commercial  radio station in Kodiak, Alaska, United States. In addition to its NPR membership, KMXT is also affiliated with the Alaska Public Radio Network and the BBC World Service. It also airs many hours of locally originated news, talk and music programming, and relies heavily on non-paid citizen volunteers to host numerous shows.

HD programming
Currently KMXT broadcasts one analog and three digital signals:

KMXT-HD1 rebroadcasts the programming from the analog signal.
KMXT-HD2 classical and jazz.
KMXT-HD3 KMX3 is a mono news and talk channel.An HD Radio receiver is required to pick up the digital channels. KMXT also streams its analog signal over the web.

Translators
In addition to five low-powered, separate-frequency translators, one low-powered booster also extends coverage. Boosters are licensed on the same frequency as the parent station but at a different location. They are given the same callsign as the parent station with a number added to differentiate the transmitter site.
Passage 10:
WGPB
WGPB FM 97.7  is a public radio station in Rome, Georgia.  It is part of the Georgia Public Broadcasting radio network, a state network which in turn is a member of National Public Radio, Public Radio Exchange, and American Public Media.  Unlike most stations on the GPB network, WGPB does not completely simulcast with the network.  WGPB also produces its own programs.  The studios are located at Georgia Highlands College's Heritage Hall campus in downtown Rome, from which locally produced programming originates. The station began broadcasting as WGPB at 5 AM on June 30, 2006.

History
The station began broadcasting May 22, 1965 as WROM-FM, sister station to WROM AM 710. It had that callsign until November 1979 when it became WKCX, known as "K98", most recently with a hot adult contemporary format.  A satellite-delivered format was used during most of the broadcast day, except for mornings and afternoons.  The station was previously owned by Mills Fitzner, who owned WKCX for 20 years under the name Briar Creek Broadcasting Corp.

Format and callsign change
In 2006, WKCX was sold to Georgia Public Broadcasting, with the format changed from hot adult contemporary, to public broadcasting. The deal was announced in March 2006, and was finalized after a 45-day waiting period on June 29, one day before GPB began broadcasting on the frequency.  Most of WKCX's staff left the station on May 31 in preparation for the changeover. The station began broadcasting as WGPB at 5 AM on June 30, 2006.

Coverage
WGPB is the first GPB or NPR radio station in northwest Georgia, and covers all of Floyd and about half of each neighboring county reliably.  The only other NPR/PRI stations available are WABE FM 90.1 from Atlanta, and WUTC FM 88.1 and WSMC-FM 90.5 from Chattanooga, both of which have marginal to poor reception in the Rome area.  GPB Radio is also usually available on the second audio program of GPB TV station WNGH-TV 18, from near Chatsworth, except for when WNGH is using the SAP channel for other uses.
The station broadcasts with a power of 4,200 watts at 241 meters (791 ft) HAAT, and is class C3.  Despite what seems like a low effective radiated power, its height makes it approximately equivalent to the class C3 maximum of 25,000 watts at 100 meters, which gives a reference distance of nearly 40 km or 25 miles from the radio antenna site.  This is the first GPB station, and one of the few non-commercial educational stations in the country, that use a channel outside of the 88-92 MHz reserved band.  WQMT FM 98.9 in Chatsworth was purchased under similar circumstances for $3.2 million and switched to GPB programming on January 2, 2008 as WNGH-FM.  Both stations have a single station ID done together each hour and heard on both stations, indicating they use the same feed.
In early February 2013, GPB applied to the FCC to move the station eastward, which would reduce coverage in northeast Alabama and increase it in northwestern metro Atlanta, bringing Cartersville and Acworth within its protected signal contour.  This would increase power from 4.2 to 17.5 kW, but decrease HAAT from 241 to 120 meters (394 ft), leaving the station with approximately the same or slightly greater coverage area, and with greater population within its broadcast range.  This radio tower, just west-northwest of Kingston (34°15′3″N 84°59′5″W), has been used by WTSH-FM 107.1, which is moving south-southwest to a higher tower located west-northwest of Euharlee according to that station's construction permit.  WGPB's application references two other stations in Alabama which would also be moving as the result of its signal being pulled away from that state.

Broadcast translator
The station was also assigned broadcast translator W221CG FM 92.1 MHz, licensed to, but not reaching any part of, Kennesaw with 55 watts at 19 meters HAAT.  It was located along Cobb Parkway (U.S. Route 41) on the north-northeast corner of Awtrey Church Road (34°3′57″N 84°43′24″W), west of Acworth and just north of SR 92, and reached as far north as the southern parts of Emerson according to FCC maps.
It was owned by Radio Assist Ministry, not GPB/GPTC, and may not have actually been airing WGPB.  It has since been reassigned to relay commercial station WWWQ FM 99.7 MHz, and was sold by RAM to Cumulus Licensing, owner of WWWQ.  The station was moved west-southwest in 2009 to the far exurbs between Dallas and Hiram, and had a construction permit to move between Powder Springs and Austell to serve Lithia Springs on 92.5 MHz, where it became W223BP in early 2012.

See also