Passage 1:
List of word board games
This is a list of board games. See the article on game classification for other alternatives, or see Category:Board games for a list of board game articles.

Single-player board games
Some board games have solo variants, such as Arkham Horror and Agricola. Others are specifically designed for one player.

Two-player abstract strategy games
In abstract strategy games, players know the entire game state at all times, and random generators such as dice are not used.

Two-player board games
Multi-player elimination board games
Participants are typically eliminated before game end.

European race games
Multiplayer games without elimination
Everyone can play along to the end. These games are especially suited for mixed play with adults and children.

Economics strategy games
Games involving scarce resources and strategy.

Games of physical skill
Coordination, finesse, or other physical skills are necessary. Also known as dexterity games.

Children's games
The rules are easy to learn and the outcome is mostly or entirely due to chance.

Cooperative games
Cooperative games in which all players need to work together to win.

Word games
These games are based on construction of words to score points.

Gaming systems
These are sets that can be used to play multiple games.

See also
Spiel des Jahres (Game of the Year)
Games 100
List of board wargames
List of Japanese board games
List of mancala games
List of board game publishers
List of game manufacturers
List of cross and circle games

External links
Board Game Geek
Boardgames.org
A Zen Guide to Board Games
Gamerate Game database
Board Games Land
Board Game Theories
Passage 2:
Clans (board game)
Clans is a German-style board game designed by Leo Colovini. The game centers on the creation of villages.

Gameplay
At the start of the game, each player is secretly dealt a card that has one of five colors on it - red, yellow, blue, green, or black. Although each player knows his own color, but not color of any of the other players. The game begins with one hut on each space, the colors being randomly distributed across the huts. On his turn, a player moves all of the huts from one space to another space. When a group of huts is completely isolated (all the surrounding spaces are empty) that space is scored. Scoring is different based on the terrain that those huts are on. The person with the most huts on that space, and anyone tied for the most, gets points. The game ends when the moves have been exhausted.

Awards
Nominee for the Spiel des Jahres, 2003
3rd in the Deutscher Spiele Preis, 2002
Games magazine Best Abstract Strategy Game of 2003
Winner, game of the year "stoner award 2018 Leeuwarden".

External links
Clans   at BoardGameGeek
Passage 3:
Drunter und Drüber
Drunter und Drüber (German: [ˈdʁʊntɐ ʊn ˈdʁyːbɐ], lit. "under and over", fig. "haywire") is a multiplayer board game invented by Klaus Teuber, first published in 1991 in Germany by Hans im Glück. A second edition was released in 1994 by Hans im Glück and featured art by Franz Vohwinkel.  The game was repackaged and rethemed as the western game Wacky Wacky West in 2010.

Gameplay
Players take on the role of the people of Schilda and work to build a new town after they burned down their old one. Buildings are already completed and each player is secretly assigned one of six types of buildings, that each appear five times on the board. Buildings closer to the center of the board have a higher point value. Each player is given an identical set of vote cards that are worth varying degrees of yes or no. Every turn, players lay down tiles of streets, rivers, and town walls which add on to existing pieces. Buildings can be covered by tiles, but when someone attempts to build over an outhouse everyone votes on whether to allow it or not. If there are more negative votes, the tile does not get played. Each player tries to keep his or her buildings uncovered. The game ends when all the pieces have been placed or all players pass consecutively; then everyone tallies their score from their remaining buildings on the map and the player with the highest score wins.

Awards
Spiel des Jahres Game of the Year 1991
Deutscher Spiele Preis 1991 3rd place

Reviews
Review by Doug Adams
Review by Debbie Pickett
Review from Sumo, Issue 5, June 1991
Passage 4:
Alex Randolph
Alexander Randolph (4 May 1922 – 27 April 2004) was a Bohemian-American designer of board games and writer. Randolph's game creations include TwixT, Breakthru, Hol's der Geier, Inkognito (with Leo Colovini), Raj, Ricochet Robot, and Enchanted Forest (with Michael Matschoss).

Biography
Randolph was a son of self-described "rich parents" who attended private school in Switzerland.
He spent his early years in various occupations, including military intelligence and as an advertising copy editor in Boston.In 1961, Randolph moved to Japan and became a professional game developer, performing initial work on TwixT. During this time, he became a dan player in shogi.
In 1962, Randolph (along with Sid Sackson) was commissioned to start a new game division for Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing (also known as 3M). Through 3M, Randolph created and published such games as Breakthru, Evade, Oh-Wah-Ree, and TwixT.Randolph moved to Venice, Italy in 1968, continuing his career as a game developer with the company Venice Connection established with Dario De Toffoli and Leo Colovini.Randolph died aged 82 in Venice on 27 April 2004.

Recognition
In 2016, as a testimony to his career, Fabulous Games published ADDX – the first ever digital game from Alex Randolph.Following Randolph's death, the Nuremberg Museum set up a special permanent collection of Randolph's games titled the Alexander Randolph Viewing Collection.

Awards
Spiel des Jahres
Game of the Year

1982 for Enchanted ForestChildren's Game of the Year

1989 for Gute Freunde
1997 for Leinen Los!Special Awards

1996 Most Beautiful Game for Venice Connection
1988 Most Beautiful game for Inkognito

Origins Awards Hall of Fame
Hall of Fame

2011 induction as a designer
2011 induction of TwixT
Passage 5:
Familienbande
Familienbande (German for Family Ties) is a card game designed by Leo Colovini.  
Familienbande is a game of family inheritance, not of money, but of genetic traits.  The card deck in Familienbande features an equal number of men and women.  Each person on a card has three characteristics, chosen from a set of five, namely big ears, orange hair, thick lips, a big nose and glasses (to represent nearsightedness).  A card's characteristics need not be different, so, for example, a man could have two symbols for big ears and one for orange hair, or three "glasses" symbols.

Gameplay
Each player represents a "family" in which one of the genetic traits is dominant, and therefore wishes to pass along this trait to as many children as possible (and as many times as possible in each child).  On each player's turn he or she can do one of three things: 

(1) Draw a card.
(2) Play a card that forms a marriage, i.e. is paired with a card of the opposite sex, after which the player then draws a card.
(3) Play a card as a child of a marriage that is already on the board.  Most importantly, the three genetic characteristics of a child must be included in the six characteristics of its parents (e.g. so a child's one "ear" and two "lips" traits must be appear in its parents' six genetic traits).  Every trait symbol on the child's card scores one point for that genetic trait times the generation number of that child.  After scoring, the player may then discard a card from his or her hand, and then draw a replacement.The game ends when the seventh child is played in the fifth "generation".

Bluffing
The genetic trait of the each player's "family" is chosen randomly at the start of the game, being kept hidden from all other players and only revealed at the end of the game.  The scores of all five genetic characteristics are tracked throughout the course of the game (even if there are only two players), allowing players to bluff and misdirect their opponents.  
At the end of the game, players reveal their own genetic trait and are penalized for cards left in hand, the winner being
the one with the highest score.

External links
Familienbande   at BoardGameGeek
Independent review of Familienbande at juegos.games
Independent review of Familienbande
Passage 6:
Inkognito
Inkognito is a board game for 3 to 5  players designed by Alex Randolph and Leo Colovini first published in 1988 by Milton Bradley Company. It has since been republished several times including by the company Venice Connection established by the designers and Dario De Toffoli.The game was inspired by the Italian card game Briscola Chiamata.

Play Overview
Inkognito is a spy game set in Venice. It is unique in that the players play in pairs, but no player knows who their partner is.  Each player has half of a secret message detailing their party's mission; their partner is the player with the other half. In order to win, a player must:

figure out who their partner really is
get the other half of the secret message from their partner
discover their party's mission
complete the missionWith 5 players, one player plays as the ambassador, who wins if he can perfectly identify all the other players.

Awards
In 1988 this game won the Spiel des Jahres special award for most beautiful game.

Reviews
Jeux & Stratégie #57 (as "Intrigues à Venise")
Passage 7:
Leo Colovini
Leo Colovini is an Italian designer of German-style board games born in Venice 1964. His most popular game is Cartagena. He is one of the few top board game designers who has owned a game store.
His life in games was strongly influenced by meeting Alex Randolph at the age of 12 with whom he worked on several of his games. He has also been part of studiogiochi, an Italian games company, and has also collaborated with Dario De Toffoli and has written books on games.

List of Games
Complete list of games that Colovini has created:

His games are known for their simplicity and drama as this quote from Board Game Geek illustrates:  "Carcasonne: The Discovery is also the simplest and most vanilla of the Carcassonnes. (Of course, if you know anything about Leo Colovini, you'd expect that.) But, it also the most tense Carcassonne. (And if you know Mr. Colovini, you also knew THAT!)"
Passage 8:
Francis Tresham (game designer)
Francis Tresham (1936 – 23 October 2019) was a British board game designer who produced board games since the early 1970s. Tresham founded and ran games company Hartland Trefoil (founded 1971), a company well-known for its Civilization board game, until its sale to MicroProse in 1997. His 1829 game was the first of the 18xx board game series and some of his board games inspired Sid Meier computer games such as Railroad Tycoon.
Francis Tresham was the first to introduce a technology tree into his boardgames. This idea had a large influence on later board and computer games.
He was managing director of Tresham Games, which produced 18xx-style board games. In 2013, he was one of the first inductees in the UK Games Expo Hall of Fame. He died on 23 October 2019.

Published board games
1825
1829
1829 Mainline
1830
1853
Civilization
Revolution: The Dutch Revolt 1568–1648
Shocks & Scares
Spanish Main
The Game of Ancient Kingdoms
Passage 9:
David Parlett
David Parlett (born 18 May 1939 in London) is a games scholar, historian, and translator from South London, who has studied both card games and board games. He is the president of the British Skat Association.

Life
David Sidney Parlett was born in London on 18 May 1939 to Sidney Thomas Parlett and Eleanor May Parlett, née Nunan. He is one of three brothers. During the Second World War, Parlett lived in Barry, Glamorgan. Parlett was educated at Battersea Grammar School and the University College of Wales in Aberystwyth. He has a BA in Modern Languages. Parlett was a technical writer with PR companies and later a freelance write for Games & Puzzles magazine. He is married to Barbara and they have a son and a daughter.

Works
His published works include many popular books on games such as Penguin Book of Card Games, as well as the more academic volumes The Oxford Guide to Card Games and The Oxford History of Board Games, both now out of print. Parlett has also invented many card games and board games.  The most successful of these is Hare and Tortoise (1974). Its German edition was awarded Spiel des Jahres (Game of the Year) in 1979.
Parlett is a Quaker.

Books
Games and gaming
All the Best Card Games
Anarquía y Otros Juegos Sociales de Cartas
Botticelli and Beyond
Card Games for Everyone
Family Card Games
Know the Game: Patience
Original Card Games
Solitaire: Aces Up and 399 other Card Games
Teach Yourself Card Games
Teach Yourself Card Games for Four
Teach Yourself Card Games for One
Teach Yourself Card Games for Three
Teach Yourself Card Games for Two
Teach Yourself Poker and Brag
The Guinness Book of Word Games
The Oxford Dictionary of Card Games
The Oxford Guide to Card Games / A History of Card Games
The Oxford History of Board Games reprinted as History of Board Games
The Penguin Book of Card Games
The Penguin Book of Patience
The Penguin Book of Word Games
The Penguin Encyclopedia of Card Games
The Popular Dictionary of Card Games

Other subjects
A Short Dictionary of Languages
Dalcroze Today (translation of Marie-Laure Bachmann's work)
Learning a Language Alone
Selections from the Carmina Burana (translations)

Games invented
Board games
Since 1974, David Parlett has published numerous games, including the following:
Around the World in 80 Days (2016)
Asterix: Das Kartenspiel (1990)
Chicken Out! (2017)
Die Wilden Kerle (The Wild Kids) (2017)
Hare and Tortoise (1973)
Katarenga (Colorado) (2017)
LifeCards
Metal Mickey's All Around the House Game (1982)
Ninety-Nine (1974) / Four Seasons (2016)
Pot Black: Snooker Dice (1980)
Rainbow Junior Scrabble (1989)
Roman Poker (2015)
Shoulder to Shoulder (1975)
Star Wars: Duell der Mächte (2015)
Sushi Spiel (Chinese Take-Away)
The Gnümies Party Game (2001)
The Puzzle of Oz (2012)
Zoo Party / 7Safari (2000) / Alles für die Katz

Card games
Parlett has invented more than 70 original card games that can be played with a standard deck of playing cards.

Solitaire games
Archway
Black Hole
Gay Gordons
Penguin
Passage 10:
Glossary of board games
This glossary of board games explains commonly used terms in board games, in alphabetical order. For a list of board games, see List of board games; for terms specific to chess, see Glossary of chess; for terms specific to chess problems, see Glossary of chess problems.

A
active  
See in play.

B
bear off  
To remove game piece(s) from the board and out of play. Past tense: borne off.

bit  
See piece.

Black  
Used often to refer to one of the players in two-player games. Black's pieces are typically a dark color but not necessarily black (e.g. in English draughts official play they are red). Cf. White. See also White and Black in chess.

board  
Short for gameboard.

C
capture  
A method that removes another player's piece(s) from the board. For example: in checkers, if a player jumps an opponent's piece, that piece is captured. Captured pieces are typically removed from the game. In some games, captured pieces remain in hand and can be reentered into active play (e.g. shogi, Bughouse chess). See also Game mechanics § Capture/eliminate.

card  
A piece of cardboard often bearing instructions, and usually chosen randomly from a deck by shuffling.

cell  
See hex and space.

checker  
See piece.

checkerboard 
A square gameboard with alternating dark and light-colored squares.

chessboard 
The square gameboard used in chess, having 64 squares of alternating dark and light-colors.

column  
See file.

component  
A physical item included in the game. E.g. the box itself, the board, the cards, the tokens, zipper-lock bags, inserts, rule books, etc. See also equipment.

counter  
See piece.

currency  
A scoring mechanic used by some games to determine the winner, e.g. money (Monopoly) or counters (Zohn Ahl).

custodian capture 
A capture method whereby an enemy piece is captured by being blocked on adjacent sides by opponent pieces. (Typically laterally on two sides as in Tablut and Hasami shogi, or laterally on four sides as in Go. Capture by blocking on two sides diagonally is done in Stone Warriors, and surrounding on three sides is required in Bizingo.) Also called escort capture and interception capture.

custodian method 
See custodian capture.

D
deck  
A stack of cards.

die  
sing. of dice.

dice  
Modern cubic dice are used to generate random numbers in many games – e.g. a single die in Trivial Pursuit, or two dice per player in backgammon. Role-playing games typically use one or more polyhedral dice. Games such as Pachisi and chaupur traditionally use cowrie shells. The games Zohn Ahl and Hyena chase use dice sticks. The game yut uses yut sticks.

direction of play  
The order of turns in a multiplayer game, e.g. clockwise around the board means the player to the left has the next turn. 
  
disc  
See piece.   
 
displacement capture  
A capture method whereby a capturing piece replaces the captured piece on its square, cell, or point on the gameboard.

doublet  
1.  The same number displayed by two dice.
2.  The number displayed by one or more die is doubled.
3.  The union of two game pieces to move as one.

E
empty board  
Many games start with all pieces out of play; for example, Nine men's morris, Conspirateurs, Entropy, and Go (if a handicap is not employed). Some gameboards feature staging areas for the pieces before any are put into play; for example, Ludo and Malefiz.

enemy  
An enemy piece is a piece in the same army or set of pieces controlled by the opponent; or, in a multiplayer game, a piece controlled by the partner of an opponent.

Engine-building  
A board game genre and gameplay mechanic that involves adding and modifying combinations of abilities or resources to assemble a virtuous circle of increasingly powerful and productive outcomes. A successfully built engine can create a snowball or domino effect.

equipment  
Refers to physical components required to play a game, e.g. pieces, gameboard, dice.

escort capture  
See custodian capture.

exchange  
For games featuring captures, the capture of a piece followed immediately by the opponent's recapture.

F
file 
A straight line of spaces running from top to bottom of a gameboard at right angle to a rank. Also called column.

friendly  
A piece in the same army or set of pieces controlled by a player; or, in a multiplayer game, a piece controlled by a player's partner.

G
gameboard  
Or game board. The (usually quadrilateral) marked surface on which one plays a board game. The namesake of the board game, gameboards would seem to be a necessary and sufficient condition of the genre, though card games that do not use a standard deck of cards (as well as games that use neither cards nor a gameboard) are often colloquially included. Most games use a standardized and unchanging board (chess, Go, and backgammon each have such a board), but some games use a modular board whose component tiles or cards can assume varying layouts from one session to another, or even during gameplay.

game component  
See component.

game equipment  
See equipment.

game piece  
See piece.

gameplay  
The execution of a game; or specifically its strategy, tactics, conventions, or mechanics.

gamer  
A person who plays board game(s). See also player.
 
gamespace  
A gameboard for a three-dimensional game (e.g., the 5×5×5 cubic board for Raumschach).

grace  
An extra turn.

H
handicap  
An advantage given to a weaker side at the start of a game to level the winning chances against a stronger opponent. Go has formal handicap systems (see Go handicaps); chess has traditional handicap methods not used in rated competitions (see Chess handicap).

hex  
In hexagon-based board games, this is the common term for a standard space on the board. This is most often used in wargaming, though many abstract strategy games such as Abalone, Agon, hexagonal chess, GIPF project games, and connection games use hexagonal layouts.

huff  
The forfeiture of a piece as a penalty for infringing a rule.

I
in hand  
A piece in hand is one currently not in play on the gameboard, but may be entered into play on a turn. Examples are captured pieces in shogi or Bughouse chess, able to be dropped into play as a move; or pieces that begin the game in a staging area off the main board, as in Ludo or Chessence.

in play  
A piece active on the main board, not in hand or in a staging area. Antonym: out of play.

interception capture  
See custodian capture.

intervention capture  
A capture method the reverse of the custodian method: a player captures two opponent pieces by moving to occupy the empty space between them.

J
jump  
To move a piece over one or more pieces or spaces on the gameboard. Depending on the context, jumping may include  capturing an opponent's piece. See also Game mechanics § Capture/eliminate.

L
leap  
See jump.

M
man  
In chess, a piece or a pawn. In draughts, an uncrowned (i.e. not a king) piece.

meeple  
A game piece that represents a person in concept, shaped like an approximation of a person.

mill  
Three or more pieces in a line of adjacent spaces.

move  
See turn.

O
odds  
See handicap.

open board  
A gameboard with no pieces, or one piece, in play. Typically for demonstration or instruction.

order of play  
See direction of play.

orthogonal  
A horizontal (straight left or right) or vertical (straight forward or backward) direction a piece moves on a gameboard.

out of play  
A piece not active on the main board, it might be in hand or in a staging area. Antonym: in play.

over the board 
A game played face to face with the opponent, as opposed to playing remotely (online or other means, for e.g. correspondence chess).

P
pass  
The voluntary or involuntary forfeiture of a turn by a player.

pie rule  
Used in some two-player games to eliminate any advantage of moving first. After the first player's opening move, the second player may optionally swap sides.

piece  
Or bit, checker, chip, counter, disc, draughtsman, game piece, man, meeple, mover, pawn, player piece, playing piece, singleton, stone, token, unit. A player's representative on the gameboard made of a piece of material made to look like a known object (such as a scale model of a person, animal, or inanimate object) or otherwise general symbol. Each player may control one or more pieces. Some games involve commanding multiple pieces, such as chess pieces or Monopoly houses and hotels, that have unique designations and capabilities within the parameters of the game; in other games, such as Go, all pieces controlled by a player have the same capabilities. In some modern board games, such as Clue, there are other pieces that are not a player's representative (i.e. weapons). In some games, such as mancala games, pieces may not represent or belong to any particular player. Mancala pieces are undifferentiated and  typically seeds but sometimes beans, coins, cowry shells, ivory balls, or pebbles. Note that in chess usage the term piece in some contexts only refers to some of the pieces, which are also known as chessmen. See also Counter (board wargames).
playboard  
See gameboard.

player  
The participant(s) in the game. See also gamer.

playing area 
The spaces on a gameboard for use by pieces in play.

playspace 
See playing area.

point  
See space.

polyhedral dice  
Dice that are not cubes, usually some kind of Platonic solid. Polyhedral dice are generally referred to through the construction "d + number of sides" (ex. d4, d8, d12, d20). See also dice.

R
rank 
A straight line of spaces running from one side to the other across a gameboard at right angle to a file. Also called row.

replacement capture  
See displacement capture.

row  
See rank.

rule  
A condition or stipulation by which a game is played.

ruleset  
The comprehensive set of rules which define and govern a game.

S
singleton  
A game piece that is isolated and often prone to attack.

space  
A physical unit of progress on a gameboard delimited by a distinct border, and not further divisible according to the game's rules. Alternatively, a unique position on the board on which a piece in play may be located. For example, in Go, the pieces are placed on grid line intersections called points, and not in the areas bounded by the borders, as in chess. The bounded area geometries can be square (e.g. chess), rectangular (e.g. shogi), hexagonal (e.g. Chinese Checkers), triangular (e.g. Bizingo), quadrilateral (e.g. three-player chess), cubic (e.g. Raumschach), or other shapes (e.g. Circular chess). Cf. gamespace. See also Game mechanics § Movement.

square  
See space.

staging area  
A space set aside from the main gameboard to contain pieces in hand. In Ludo, the staging areas are called yards. In shogi, pieces in hand are placed on komadai.

starting area  
See staging area.  
  
stone  
See piece.

swap  
See exchange.

T
take  
See capture.

token  
See piece.

trade  
See exchange.

triplet  
The same number displayed by three dice.

turn  
A player's opportunity to move a piece or make a decision that influences gameplay. Turns to move usually alternate equally between competing players or teams. See also Turn-based game.

W
White  
Used often to refer to one of the players in two-player games. White's pieces are typically a light color but not necessarily white (e.g. backgammon sets use various colors for White; shogi sets have no color distinction between sides). White often moves first but not always (e.g. Black moves first in English draughts, shogi, and Go). Cf. Black. See also White and Black in chess.

Worker Placement 
A genre of board games in which players take turns selecting an action while optimizing their resources and making meaningful decisions.

Notes