Passage 1:
Qingsheng Railway Station
Qingsheng railway station (Chinese: 庆盛站) is a station in located in Qingsheng Village (庆盛村), Dongchong Town, Nansha District, Guangzhou. It is one of the stations on the Guangzhou–Shenzhen–Hong Kong Express Rail Link between Guangzhou South railway station in Panyu District, Guangzhou and Futian railway station in Futian District, Shenzhen.

Guangzhou Metro
An elevated metro station on Line 4 of the Guangzhou Metro started operation on 28 December 2017.

Services
China Railway
Guangzhou–Shenzhen–Hong Kong Express Rail Link

Guangzhou Metro
Line 4 (Guangzhou Metro)
Passage 2:
Pingxiang, Guangxi
Pingxiang (凭祥市) is a county-level city under the administration of the prefecture-level city of Chongzuo, in the southwest of the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China.

Situation
The city covers an area of 650 km2 (250 sq mi). It is bordered in the north by Longzhou County and in the east by Ningming County, both in Chongzuo, and in the south and west by Vietnam's Lạng Sơn Province.
National Route 322 comes through the city centre, as does the railway which continues on to Hanoi; a high-speed expressway, now also international, passes nearby.
Zhennan Pass, site of the Battle of Bang Bo during the Sino-French War, is now named the "Friendship Pass" and is considered the gateway to Vietnam.
There are also plans to build a high-speed railway from Nanning to the Vietnamese border.

Administration
Demographics
Pingxiang has a population of approximately 106,400 (83.5% of the people belong to the Zhuang ethnic group, 2010). Ethnic groups include Zhuang, Han, Yao, Miao, Jing, and others.

Towns (Chinese: 镇, zhen)
Pingxiang (Chinese: 凭祥)
Shangshi (Chinese: 上石)
Xiashi (Chinese: 夏石)
Youyi (Chinese: 友谊)

Transportation
Rail
Hunan–Guangxi Railway

Climate
See also
Lang Son


== Notes and references ==
Passage 3:
G7211 Nanning–Youyiguan Expressway
The Nanning–Youyiguan Expressway (Chinese: 南宁—友谊关高速公路), commonly referred to as the Nanyou Expressway (Chinese: 南友高速公路), is a 225.06-kilometre-long expressway (139.85 mi) in the Chinese autonomous region of Guangxi that connects the city of Nanning, the capital of Guangxi, and Friendship Pass, known in Chinese as Youyiguan, a border crossing between China and Vietnam. The Friendship Pass is located in the county-level city of Pingxiang, under the administration of the city of Chongzuo. At the border, the expressway connects with North–South expressway in Vietnam. The expressway is designated G7211, and opened on 28 December 2005.The expressway is a spur of G72 Quanzhou–Nanning Expressway. The Nanning–Youyiguan Expressway branches off from its primary expressway, G72, just before the western terminus of G72 in Nanning. The entire route is also part of Asian Highway 1.
Along with the G7511 Qinzhou–Dongxing Expressway and G8011 Kaiyuan–Hekou Expressway, it is one of the three expressways that connect China with Vietnam.

Route
Nanning City Center
The Nanning–Youyiguan Expressway begins east of the city centre of Nanning, at the San'an Interchange in Qingxiu District. At this interchange, it connects to the G72 Quanzhou–Nanning Expressway, its parent expressway, as well as the G7201 Nanning Ring Expressway, the G75 Lanzhou–Haikou Expressway, and the G80 Guangzhou–Kunming Expressway. It proceeds south, in a concurrency with the G7201 Nanning Ring Expressway and G75 Lanzhou–Haikou Expressway, to the Liangqing South interchange in Liangqing District, passing through Yongning District on the way. At this three way interchange, the Nanning–Youyiguan Expressway and Nanning Ring Expressway continue westward while the G75 Lanzhou–Haikou Expressway branches off to the south.
The concurrency with the G7201 Nanning Ring Expressway continues until the Gaoling Interchange in Jiangnan District, south of the city centre of Nanning, where the Nanning–Youyiguan Expressway proceeds southward, away from the city centre, while the G7201 Nanning Ring Expressway continues westward.
This section of expressway forms the southeastern part of a ring expressway around the city centre of Nanning. The orbital expressway is designated G7201 Nanning Ring Expressway. Hence, the G7201 Nanning Ring Expressway is concurrent with the Nanning–Youyiguan Expressway for this entire length, and in addition, the two expressways share exit numbers during the concurrency.

Nanning Airport Expressway
The 18.443-kilometre-long section of the Nanning–Youyiguan expressway (11.460 mi) south of the Gaoling interchange is known as the Nanning Airport Expressway. This section first opened in October 2000, and is so named because it connects the city centre with Nanning's international airport, Nanning Wuxu International Airport. As this section was built prior to the other sections, it uses different exit numbers than those employed on the rest of the expressway (in which kilometre zero is at the San'an interchange). Instead, the exit numbers reset, with the Gaoling interchange serving as kilometre zero for this section.This section of expressway is toll-free. Just south of the Gaoling interchange, all motorists must stop at a toll booth. Immediately after the toll booth, the Nahong exit provides access to and from the city centre of Nanning from the south.
The Nanning Airport Expressway section of the Nanning–Youyiguan expressway traverses through Jiangnan District in a southwesterly manner, ending at the Wuxu exit, where it connects to Airport Road and Nanning Wuxu International Airport.

Wuxu to Youyiguan
The final section of expressway, from the Wuxu exit to the Vietnam border, is 180.063 kilometres (111.886 mi) in length. This section of expressway is tolled from the Wuxu exit to the Pingxiang exit. West of the Wuxu exit, motorists must stop at a toll booth.
The expressway enters the prefecture-level city of Chongzuo immediately after the Suxu exit. At the Yuanjing exit, the Nanning–Youyiguan Expressway connects with the S60 Qinzhou–Chongzuo Expressway to the east. This exit opened along with the opening of the Qinzhou–Chongzhou expressway on 31 December 2012.The expressway passes just south of the city centre of Chongzuo, before continuing west to the county-level city of Pingxiang. The section of expressway between the Wuxu and Chongzuo exits has a speed limit of 100 km/h (62 mph). The speed limit between the Chongzuo and Ningming exits, just before Pingxiang, is 80 km/h (50 mph), and between Ningming and Youyiguan is 60 km/h (37 mph). The section between Ningming County and Youyiguan parallels much of China National Highway 322 and the Hunan–Guangxi Railway.
Entering Pingxiang, motorists must stop at a toll booth, marking the end of the tolled stretch of expressway. Immediately after the toll-booth is an at-grade intersection with China National Highway 322 and Jinxiang Avenue, the only at-grade intersection on the expressway. The expressway makes a sharp turn southward toward the Vietnam border and its southwestern terminus at Youyiguan. At Youyiguan, individuals must pass through the border checkpoint before entering Vietnam. On the Vietnamese side of Youyiguan is the northern terminus of North–South Expressway.

Exit List
Passage 4:
Guandong, Guangxi
Guandong (Chinese: 官垌) is a Chinese town located Northeastern Pubei, Qinzhou, Guangxi, which is famous for Guandong Fish.
Passage 5:
Tonghe Station
Tonghe Station (Chinese: 同和站; pinyin: Tónghé Zhàn; Jyutping: tung4wo4 zaam6) is a metro station on Line 3 of the Guangzhou Metro. The underground station is located at the intersection of Guangzhou Avenue (广州大道) and Tongsha Road (同沙路) in the Baiyun District of Guangzhou. It started operation on 30 October 2010.
Passage 6:
Kaiping
Kaiping (Chinese: 开平), alternately romanized in Cantonese as Hoiping, is a county-level city in Guangdong Province, China. It is located ín the western section of the Pearl River Delta and administered as part of the prefecture-level city of Jiangmen. The surrounding area, especially Sze Yup (Chinese: 四邑), is the ancestral homeland of many overseas Chinese, particularly in the United States.  Kaiping has a population of 688,242 as of 2017 and an area of 1,659 square kilometres (641 sq mi). The locals speak a variant of the Sze Yup dialect.

History
During the Northern Song dynasty (960–1127), Kaiping was under the administration of Xin'an county (信安縣)
Under the Qing (1649), Hoiping County made up part of the commandery of Shiuhing (Zhaoqing). It was promoted to county-level city status in 1993.

Administration
Administratively, Kaiping is administered as part of the prefecture-level city of Jiangmen.

Geography
Kaiping's city centre is located on the Tanjiang River, 140 kilometres (87 mi) away from Guangzhou, on the edge of the county Kaiping west of the Pearl River Delta. Kaiping consists of broken terrain, mostly either rocky or swampy, with only a third of the land arable.  The county is shaped like a giant question mark (see map, in pink) and includes rural areas as well as three port cities: Changsha, Xinchang, and Dihai.

Notable people
Wing-tsit Chan: Chinese American scholar
Ed Chau: member of the California State Assembly
George Chow: member of the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia
Yun Gee: Chinese American artist
Víctor Joy Way: Chinese Peruvian politician
Betty Kwan Chinn: Chinese American philanthropist
Lee Quo-wei (1918–2013): former Hong Kong banker
Liang Xiang: former Governor of Hainan
Betty Ong: American flight attendant aboard American Airlines Flight 11
Jean Quan: former mayor of Oakland, California
Bing Thom: Chinese Canadian architect and urban designer
Szeto Wah (1931–2011):  Hong Kong politicianSzutu, Chiu: scholar, his publishing included inter generation of Chinese new zealanders,the biography of architecet Ron FongDelbert E. Wong: Los Angeles County jurist who was the first judge in the continental United States of Chinese descent
Ken Hom: Chinese-American chef, BBC TV presenter, and author

Sights
Kaiping Diaolou
Kaiping Diaolous (碉楼) are fortified multi-storey towers constructed in the village countryside of mainly the Kaiping area.  They were built from the early Qing Dynasty to the early 20th century, reaching a peak in the 1920s and 1930s, with the financial aid of overseas Chinese, when there were more than three thousand of these structures. Today, 1,833 diaolou are still standing, with the most in the towns of Shuikou (水口镇), Tangkou (塘口镇), Baihe (百合镇), Chikan (赤坎镇), and Xiangang (蚬冈镇), in that order (see map in article by Batto).In the late 19th and early 20th century, Kaiping was a region of major emigration abroad, and a melting pot of ideas and trends brought back by overseas Chinese, Huaqiao, made good.  As a consequence, many watchtowers incorporated architectural features from China and the West.  These were examples of the Qiaoxiang (僑鄉) architecture.  The diaolou were built by villagers during a time of chaos and served two purposes: housing and protecting against forays by bandits.In 2007, the Kaiping diaolou and villages were added to the list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites and consist of four separate restored village areas: Zilicun village (自力村) in Tangkou, Sanmenli village (三门里) in Chikan, Jinjiangli village (锦江里) in Xiangang, and Majianglong village cluster (马降龙村落群) in Baihe township.The Kaiping diaolou was the location for parts of the filming of 2010 movie Let the Bullets Fly (让子弹飞).

		
		
		
Examples of diaolous include:

Yinglonglou (迎龙楼), oldest extant diaolou in Kaiping, in the village of Sanmenli (Chikan township) built by the Guan (关族) lineage during the Jiajing era of the Ming dynasty (1522-1566), is a massive three-storey fortress with one-meter thick walls, in contrast with the high tower diaolou built much later with the aid of Huaqiao.
Jinjiangli Diaolou Cluster (锦江里雕楼群), situated behind Jinjiangli Village (Xiangang Township), includes three exquisite diaolous: Ruishi Lou, Shengfeng Lou, and Jinjiang Lou. Ruishi Diaolou, constructed in 1921, has nine floors and is the tallest diaolou in Kaiping. It features a Byzantine style roof and a Roman dome.
The Majianglong diaolou cluster (马降龙雕楼群) is spread across five villages (Baihe township) in a bamboo forest: Yong'an and Nan'an Villages of the Huang (黄) family; Hedong, Qinglin, and Longjiang Villages of the Guan (关) family.
Zilicun Diaolou Cluster (自力村雕楼群), located in Zilicun Village (Tangkou township), includes nine diaolous, the largest number among the four Kaiping villages designated by UNESCO. They feature the fusion of Chinese and various Western architectural styles and rise up surrealistically over the rice paddy fields.
Fangshi Denglou - Built in 1920 after contributions from villagers, this denglou is five storeys high. It is referred to as the "Light Tower" because it had an enormous searchlight as bright as the beam of a lighthouse.
Li Garden, in Beiyi Xiang, was constructed in 1936 by Mr. Xie Weili, a Chinese emigrant to the United States.
Bianchouzhu Lou (The Leaning Tower), located in Nanxing Village was constructed in 1903. It has seven floors.
Nan Lou (南楼), or the "Southern Diaolou", located on the riverbank in Chikan township, which was known for seven local soldiers by the surname Situ (司徒) who died defending Chikan from the Japanese.

Chikan
Chikan (赤坎) is officially designated as a National Historic and Cultural Town of China (中国历史文化名镇).  The old town of Chikan has many historical sites that are about one hundred years old.  For example, it has over 600 late-Qing and early-Republic historic Tong laus or Qilous (唐樓/ 騎樓) continuous, spanning over a length of 3 kilometers, including the riverside stretch along Dixi Lu (堤西路), sometimes referred to as 'European Styled Street'. Part of old Chikan town has been designated Chikan Studio City (赤坎影视城) for filming of historical scenes.
Chikan township also has two restored diaolous:  Yinglonglou, built by the Guan (关族) lineage in the Ming dynasty, and Nanlou, memorialized by the martyrdom of seven Situ clan (司徒族) members in the early 20th century.
Historically, Chikan has been shaped by these two competing clans. One example is the existence of two libraries: the Situ's library, opened in 1926, and, not to be outdone, the Guan's library, opened in 1931; both libraries funded by overseas Chinese and incorporated architecture features from overseas.
It is a famous and well-known location for braised pork in noodles to locals.
Chikan is to become a tourist destination and the closing of local stores, dining posts, and streets are scheduled for the summer of 2017.

Miscellaneous
Kaiping has been twinned with Mesa, Arizona, United States, since October 18, 1993.
Kaiping was a major source of emigrants at the turn of the 20th century. As a result, a large number of early Chinese Canadian and Chinese American communities had people who originated from Kaiping and its neighboring counties of Taishan, Enping and Xinhui, which is known collectively as Sze Yup. It is said that there are more Kaipingnese people living abroad today than there are Kaipingnese in Kaiping.  In a 2016 report, Deloitte estimated that there are 750,000 Kaiping-born overseas Chinese.In 1973, various people originated from Kaiping started the Hoi Ping Chamber of Commerce Secondary School in Hong Kong.

Climate
Notes
Passage 7:
Hunan–Guangxi Railway
The Hunan–Guangxi railway or Xianggui railway (simplified Chinese: 湘桂铁路; traditional Chinese: 湘桂鐵路; pinyin: xiāngguì tiělù), is a mostly electrified railroad in southern China that connects Hunan province and the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region.  The shortform name of the line, Xianggui, is named after the Chinese short names of Hunan, Xiang and Guangxi, Gui.  The line runs  1,013 km (629 mi) from Hengyang in Hunan to Friendship Pass on Guangxi's border with Vietnam.  Major cities along route include Hengyang, Yongzhou, Guilin, Liuzhou, Nanning, Pingxiang, and Friendship Pass.

History
The original single-track Xianggui Line was built in sections from 1937 to 1939 and 1950–1955.
In December 2008, construction began on a capacity-expansion project to a new pair of 723.7 km (450 mi) electrified tracks from Hengyang to Nanning, which would create a three-track line of 497.9 km (309 mi) between Hengyang and Liuzhou and a four-track line of 225.8 km (140 mi) between Liuzhou and Nanning.  The expansion project was completed in December 2013.  The new double-track from Hengyang to Liuzhou is called the Hengyang–Liuzhou intercity railway and the new double-track from Liuzhou to Nanning is called the Liuzhou–Nanning intercity railway.
As of May 2014, the southernmost section of the Xianggui Line, from Nanning to Pingxiang on the Vietnamese border, is undergoing capacity expansion to accommodate high-speed trains.

Passenger service
The Hunan–Guangxi railway is used by most trains traveling from Beijing, Shanghai, and other points in eastern China to Guangxi (Guilin, Nanning) and to the Vietnamese border. This includes the Beijing–Nanning–Hanoi through train.
At the end of 2013, high-speed passenger service was introduced on the Hunan–Guangxi railway as well. A direct G-series trains from Beijing makes it to Guilin in about 10.5 hours. D-series trains continue from Guilin to Nanning, taking less than 3 hours for the trip.

Rail connections
Hengyang: Beijing–Guangzhou railway
Yongzhou: Luoyang–Zhanjiang railway
Liuzhou: Jiaozuo–Liuzhou railway, Guizhou–Guangxi railway
Litang Township: Litang–Zhanjiang railway, Litang–Qinzhou railway
Nanning: Nanning–Kunming railway; branch line to Qinzhou and Beihai
Pingxiang: Hanoi–Đồng Đăng Railway

See also
List of railways in China
Passage 8:
Ruyifang Station
Ruyifang Station (Chinese: 如意坊站; pinyin: Rúyìfāng Zhàn; Jyutping: jyu4ji3fong1 zaam6) is a station on Line 6 of the Guangzhou Metro. It is located underground in the Liwan District of Guangzhou. It started operation on 28 December 2013.

Construction incident
In the 03:00 hour of 5 October 2007, as the Ruyifang station was being dug up, water from an unidentified source covered a 300 m2 (3,200 sq ft) area of the construction site was submerged to a depth of 5 to 6 m (16 to 20 ft). No injuries were reported, and by 06:30 on 6 October, the previously submerged  portion was re-sealed.

Station layout
Exits
Passage 9:
Diaolou
Diaolou (simplified Chinese: 碉楼; traditional Chinese: 碉樓) are fortified multi-storey watchtowers in rural villages, generally made of reinforced concrete. These towers are located mainly in the Kaiping (开平) county of Jiangmen prefecture in Guangdong province, China. In 2007, UNESCO designated the Kaiping Diaolou and Villages (Chinese: 开平碉楼与村落) a World Heritage Site, which covers four separate Kaiping village areas: Sanmenli (三门里), Zilicun (自力村), Jinjiangli (锦江里), and Majianglong village cluster (马降龙村落群). These areas demonstrate a unique fusion of 19th and 20th-century Chinese and Western architectural styles.

History
Diaolou structures were built from the time of the Ming Dynasty to the early 20th century, reaching a peak during the Warlord Era in the 1920s and 1930s, with the financial aid of overseas Chinese, when there were more than three thousand of these structures. Today, approximately 1,800 diaolou remain standing, and mostly abandoned, in the village countryside of Kaiping, and approximately 500 in neighboring Taishan.  They can also occasionally be found in several other areas of Guangdong, such as Shenzhen and Dongguan.The earliest standing diaolou in Kaiping is Yinglong Lou (迎龙楼) in the village of Sanmenli (Chikan township), built by the Guan lineage during the reign of Jiajing Emperor of the Ming dynasty (1522–1566). It was a massive three-storey rectangular fortress with one-meter thick walls, with little resemblance with the high tower diaolous built four centuries later.  Yinglong Lou was renovated in 1919 and is 11.4 meters high.In the late 19th century and early 20th century, because of poverty and social instabilities, Kaiping was a region of major emigration abroad, one of the "pre-eminent sending area" of overseas Chinese.  Diaolous built during the chaotic early 20th century were most numerous around the centers of emigration. Monies from emigrants wanting to ensure the security of their families, villages, or clan lineages were used to fund the diaolou.  Although the diaolous were built mainly as protection against forays by bandits, many of them also served as living quarters.  Some of them were built by a single family, some by several families together or by entire village communities.  Kaiping became also a melting pot of ideas and trends brought back by overseas Chinese. As a result, the villagers built their diaolou to incorporate architectural features from China and from the West.It wasn't until after 1949 when an administrative system that extended down to the small villages was created that the diaolou lost their defensive purpose and were then abandoned or converted.  Still, they stand as a tribute to overseas Chinese culture and the perseverance of the peasants of Kaiping.In 2007, UNESCO named the Kaiping Diaolou and Villages (开平碉楼与村落) a World Heritage Site. UNESCO wrote, "...the Diaolou ... display a complex and flamboyant fusion of Chinese and Western structural and decorative forms. They reflect the significant role of émigré Kaiping people in the development of several countries in South Asia, Australasia, and North America, during the late 19th and early 20th centuries, and the close links between overseas Kaiping and their ancestral homes. The property inscribed here consists of four groups of Diaolou, totaling some 1,800 tower houses in their village settings."  The four restored groups of Kaiping diaolou are in: Zilicun village (自力村) of Tangkou township (塘口镇), Sanmenli village (三门里) of Chikan township (赤坎镇), Majianglong cluster (马降龙) of Baihe township (百合镇), and Jinjiangli village (锦江里) of Xiangang township (蚬冈镇).
The Kaiping diaolou was the location for parts of the filming of 2010 movie Let the Bullets Fly (让子弹飞).

Examples
Yinglong Lou (迎龙楼), located in the village of Sanmenli (Chikan township), was built by the Guan (关族) lineage during the Jiajing era of the Ming dynasty (1522–1566). As the oldest preserved diaolou in Kaiping, it retains the primitive model of a watchtower with traditional square structure and is not influenced by western architectural styles.
Jinjiangli Diaolou Cluster (锦江里碉楼群), situated behind Jinjiangli Village (Xiangang Township) of the Huang (黄) family, includes three exquisite diaolous: Ruishi Lou, Shengfeng Lou, and Jinjiang Lou. Ruishi Diaolou, constructed in 1921, has nine floors and is the tallest diaolou in Kaiping. It features a Byzantine style roof and a Roman dome.
Majianglong Diaolou cluster (马降龙碉楼群) is spread across five villages (Baihe township) in a bamboo forest: Yong'an and Nan'an Villages of the Huang (黄) family; Hedong, Qinglin, and Longjiang Villages of the Guan (关) family. Tianlu Lou (Tower of Heavenly Success), located in Yong'an Village, was built in 1922 and is seven storey tall plus a roof top floor.
Zilicun Diaolou Cluster (自力村碉楼群), located in Zilicun Village (Tangkou township), includes nine diaolous, the largest number among the four Kaiping villages designated by UNESCO. They feature the fusion of Chinese and various Western architectural styles and rise up surrealistically over the rice paddy fields.
Fangshi Denglou – Built in 1920 after contributions from villagers, this denglou is five stories high. It is referred to as the "Light Tower" because of an enormous searchlight with a brightness much like that of a lighthouse.
Li Garden, in Beiyi Xiang, was constructed in 1936 by Mr. Xie Weili, a Chinese emigrant to the United States.
Bianchouzhu Lou (The Leaning Tower), located in Nanxing Village (南兴村) in Xiangang township, was constructed in 1903. It has seven floors and overlooks a pond.

Gallery
See also
Cantonese architecture
Chikan, Kaiping
Kaiping
Himalayan Towers
Passage 10:
Huaxia Art Centre
Huaxia Art Centre is a facility for art and culture located on the outskirts of the Overseas Chinese Town in the Nanshan District, Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province, China.
The 13,500 square metres (145,000 sq ft) centre was completed in 1990 and opened in 1991. It has since hosted a variety of large national and international conferences, exhibitions, and artistic and cultural events.From February to June 1997, it hosted the Provisional Legislative Council of Hong Kong.
The centre underwent renovations between May 2004 to March 2005 to replace seats and add film studios.