Passage 1:
Manimaran
Manimaran is an Indian film director, working in the Tamil film industry.

Career
He made his directorial debut in Tamil, Udhayam NH4 (2013) featuring Siddharth and a newcomer Ashrita Shetty in lead roles. It was simultaneously dubbed and released in Telugu in the same year. Udhayam NH4 was produced by Meeka Entertainment and Grass Root Film Company for which director Vetrimaaran penned the story. Manimaran was born and brought up in a town Walajapet near Vellore. Manimaran was one of a former associate of director Vetrimaaran and had worked in Vetrimaaran's films Polladhavan and Aadukalam. He collaborated once again with director Vetrimaran and actor Dhanush as a second unit direct in the 2019 film, Asuran. In 2021, he directed Sangathalaivan. The Samuthirakani-starrer wears its Communist shirt proudly but fails to sell its politics convincingly. Manimaran is far too abrasive in that he projects his protagonist as simply no more than the average Tamil film hero.

Filmography
Passage 2:
The Godfather Part II (soundtrack)
The Godfather Part II is the Academy Award winning soundtrack from the movie of the same name, released in 1974 by ABC, and 1991 on compact disc by MCA. The original score was composed by Nino Rota and conducted by Carmine Coppola, who also provided source music for the film. Rota expands upon two of the three main themes from the first film: "The Godfather Waltz" and "Michael's Theme", while "The Love Theme" from the first film makes a brief appearance during a flashback sequence ("Remember Vito Andolini"). There are several new themes, including one for Kay (Diane Keaton), and two for young Vito (Robert De Niro): "The Immigrant Theme" and "The Tarantella", introduced in "A New Carpet".

Track listing
Awards and nominations
Album chart
1975: The Godfather Part II: Pop albums: #184

Credits
Source:

Release history
Passage 3:
True Grit: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack
True Grit may refer to:

Fiction
True Grit (novel), a 1968 novel by Charles Portis
True Grit (1969 film), a film adaptation by Henry Hathaway, starring John Wayne
True Grit (2010 film), a film adaptation by the Coen Brothers, starring Jeff Bridges

Music
True Grit (1969 soundtrack), by Glen Campbell and Elmer Bernstein
"True Grit" (song), the album's title track
True Grit (2010 soundtrack), by Carter Burwell
True Grit (Bret Michaels album), 2015
"True Grit", a song by the Crystal Method from Legion of Boom, 2004

Other uses
True Grit (mascot), at University of Maryland, Baltimore County, US

See also
True Grit: A Further Adventure, a 1978 made-for-TV sequel
Grit (disambiguation)
Passage 4:
Ashrita Shetty
Ashrita Shetty (born 16 July 1993) is an Indian actress who predominantly works in Tamil language films.

Early life
Shetty was born on 16 July 1993 in a South Indian family from Karnataka. She hails from Mumbai and has studied finance.

Career
In 2010, Shetty participated in a beauty contest organised by The Times of India, Clean & Clear Fresh Face. Competing in Mumbai, she won the event there and then went on to win it again at the national level, eventually becoming the face of the brand for a year. She made her film debut in 2012, with a Tulu film, Telikeda Bolli. During the time, she appeared in various other television commercials. This was when film directors Vetrimaaran and Manimaran approached her to play the lead role in their venture, Udhayam NH4. The film saw her play a Bangalore-based Tamil-speaking college girl, who elopes with the character played by Siddharth. She gained mixed reviews for her portrayal in the film, with a reviewer noting she could be a promising actress in the making. Sangeeta Devi from The Hindu said "Newcomer Ashrita Shetty shows promise and her capability of bringing to the screen the vulnerability and innocence of a 17/18-year-old makes her endearing. This girl has huge potential." She then signed the lead in the action adventure film Indrajith opposite Gautham Karthik.

Personal life
Shetty married Indian cricketer Manish Pandey on 2 December 2019.

Filmography
Passage 5:
Grass Root Film Company
Grass Root Film Company is an Indian film production and distribution company. Established by Indian director Vetrimaaran in 2012, it debuted with Udhayam NH4, produced in collaboration with Meeka Entertainment. The company has collaborated with Wunderbar Films on several other films. Committed in 2012, it has since gone to produce several Tamil language films.

Filmography
Passage 6:
Music of the Mega Man Zero series
The Rockman Zero series, known as the Mega Man Zero series outside Japan, is a series of four video games for the Game Boy Advance set in Capcom's Mega Man video game franchise. The music of the series consists of the soundtracks to the four games, as well as the released albums associated with them. The music to Mega Man Zero, the first game, was composed by Ippo Yamada with one track by Setsuo Yamamoto; the music of Mega Man Zero 2 was composed by Yamada, Masaki Suzuki, Luna Umegaki, Chicken Mob, and Tsutomu Kurihara; the soundtrack of Mega Man Zero 3 was composed by Yamada, Suzuki, Kurihara, and Umegaki; and Mega Man Zero 4's music was composed by Yamada, Suzuki, Umegaki, and Shinichi Itakura.
The soundtracks for the first three games were released together as the Rockman Zero 1~3 Game Music Collection in 2004. Albums of remixed music have been released for each game, all in 2004, with Remastered Tracks Rockman Zero for the first, Remastered Tracks Rockman Zero Idea for the second, Remastered Tracks Rockman Zero Telos for the third, and Remastered Tracks Rockman Zero Physis for Rockman 4. A fifth album, Remastered Tracks Rockman Zero Mythos was released in 2010 to correspond with the release of the Mega Man Zero Collection compilation for the Nintendo DS. Remastered Tracks Rockman Zero, Telos, and Physis include in addition to their musical tracks several radio drama tracks, in which voice actors play in a drama whose story is related to the associated game.

Albums
Rockman Zero Game Music Complete Works -Rockman Zero 1~3-
Rockman Zero Game Music Complete Works - Rockman Zero 1~3- is a soundtrack album which contains music from Mega Man Zero, Mega Man Zero 2, and Mega Man Zero 3. The tracks were composed by Ippo Yamada, Luna Umegaki, Chicken Mob, Masaki Suzuki, Tsutomu Kurihara, and Makoto Tomozawa, though "Theme of ZERO", taken from the soundtrack of Mega Man X, was composed by Setsuo Yamamoto. The album was published by Suleputer on July 1, 2004 with the catalog numbers CPCA-1092/3 . The two-disc album contains 103 tracks and covers a duration of 2:25:03. The album presents the tracks separated by game, with the Zero 2 tracks split by the disc boundary.Track list

Remastered Tracks Rockman Zero
Remastered Tracks Rockman Zero is a soundtrack album which contains almost all remixed game tracks from Mega Man Zero, plus some drama tracks which explain events that occurred during the game. The majority of the tracks were composed by Ippo Yamada, though "Theme of ZERO", taken from the soundtrack of Mega Man X, was composed by Setsuo Yamamoto.  The album was published by Inti Creates on January 23, 2004 with the catalog number INTIR-001. The album was released six months before the Rockman Zero 1~3 album, making it the first release of music from the game. It contains 26 tracks, of which 5 are drama tracks rather than songs, and covers a duration of 56:52. The drama tracks are marked in their official titles with a "*". Literal translation of the original titles appear in (brackets) if different

Remastered Tracks Rockman Zero: Idea
Remastered Tracks Rockman Zero: Idea is a soundtrack album which contains remixed game tracks from Mega Man Zero 2, plus some remixes of extra tracks not included in the game. The tracks were composed and remixed by Ippo Yamada, Luna Umegaki, Masaki Suzuki, Chicken Mob, and Tsutomu Kurihara. The two-disc album was published by Inti Creates on May 28, 2004 with the catalog numbers INTIR-002/3. It contains 40 tracks and covers a duration of 1:52:22.Track list
 Literal translation of the original titles appear in (brackets) if different

Remastered Tracks Rockman Zero: Telos
Remastered Tracks Rockman Zero: Telos is a soundtrack album which contains remixed game tracks from Mega Man Zero 3. The tracks were composed and remixed by Ippo Yamada, Luna Umegaki, Masaki Suzuki, Makoto Tomozawa, and Tsutomu Kurihara. The two-disc album was published by Inti Creates on December 12, 2004 with the catalog numbers INTIR-004/5. It contains 47 tracks and covers a duration of 2:10:54. The last ten tracks of the second disc are drama tracks, which cover multiple events set both before Mega Man Zero 3 and during.Track list
 Literal translation of the original titles appear in (brackets) if different

Remastered Tracks Rockman Zero: Physis
Remastered Tracks Rockman Zero: Physis is a soundtrack album which contains remixed game tracks from Mega Man Zero 4. The tracks were composed and remixed by Ippo Yamada, Luna Umegaki, Masaki Suzuki, Shinichi Itakura, and Chicken Mob. The two-disc album was published by Inti Creates on September 30, 2005 with the catalog numbers INTIR-006/7. It contains 41 tracks and covers a duration of 2:03:20. Several of the tracks are drama tracks rather than tunes; these focus on the events of the game rather than expanding on them as in previous albums. The last three tracks are karaoke versions of tracks from previous albums. The title of the drama tracks begin with "Ragnarok Record".Track list
 Literal translation of the original titles appear in (brackets) if different

Remastered Tracks Rockman Zero: Mythos
Remastered Tracks Rockman Zero: Mythos is a soundtrack album which contains remixed game tracks from Mega Man Zero Collection, a compilation release of the Mega Man Zero games for the Nintendo DS. The tracks were composed and remixed by Ippo Yamada, Luna Umegaki, and Tsutomu Kurihara. The album was published by Inti Creates on June 10, 2010 with the catalog number INTIR-0018. It contains 14 tracks, including one hidden track, and covers a duration of 48:18. Unlike the previous albums, Mythos does not include any drama tracks. At the same time that Mythos was released, a box set entitled Remastered Tracks Rockman Zero Limited Box was published, containing all five Remastered Tracks albums.
Passage 7:
JK Enum Nanbanin Vaazhkai
JK Enum Nanbanin Vaazhkai (transl. Life of a friend named JK) is a 2015 Indian Tamil-language romantic drama film written and directed by Cheran, which was simultaneously made and later released in Telugu as Rajadhi Raja (transl. King of Kings). It stars Sharwanand and Nithya Menen while Prakash Raj and Santhanam play supporting roles. The film featured songs by G. V. Prakash Kumar and film scored by Siddharth Vipin. After failing to have a theatrical release in late 2013, the Tamil version of the film had a direct-to-video release in March 2015, becoming the first venture in a new initiative launched by Cheran known as Cinema2Home (C2H). The Telugu version of the film had been indefinitely placed on hold, but was later released theatrically in June 2016, with the makers trying to profit from Sharwanand's popularity.

Plot
Jayakumar (Sharwanand), commonly known as JK, is a mid-20s man who does not care about family. Instead, he is obsessed with chatting on Facebook, partying, and passing time with friends. At work, he has a group of friends with similar interests. They all plan on going for a New Year Party.
Two years later, JK is shown to be a changed person – very invested in developing, earning money and taking care of his family. He is shown to make business models with an aim of earning a lot of money in a short period of time. He has goals such as getting his two sisters married and ensuring that his brother gets good education. In attempts to start business, he goes to meet a bank manager at his home. As they had to wait for the bank manager to come, JK and his friend notice that the house is not well-maintained and take on the job to organise it. Upon returning, bank manager appreciates their work and tells JK and his friend that it would be very helpful if they could help clean homes regularly. He also suggests that about 150 other flats in his apartment complex would also appreciate this service. This becomes JK's first business venture. For this, he also ropes in help from his school friend Nithya (Nithya Menen). Together, JK, Nithya, and their friends go on to become very successful with multiple projects.
Later, the reason for change in JK's behaviour is explained. When JK and friends were planning to go for the New Year Party, Ravi also wants to go with them and becomes a good friend of JK. Ravi comes from a very poor background, and his family is dependent on him. After the party, the gang meets with an accident, resulting in Ravi's death and a serious head injury for JK. JK has only a couple of years left in his life. This makes him realise the importance of life, and he decides to make his family happy and make sure that they have enough money before he dies. However, JK does not tell this to anyone but Nithya. In the end, JK leaves the responsibilities of business and his family to Nithya and goes off to the USA (where he would likely die because of his illness). Nithya is shown to be running the business and living with memories of time spent with her best friend JK.

Cast
Soundtrack
The soundtrack features five songs composed by G. V. Prakash Kumar, with lyrics by Na. Muthukumar, Yugabharathi, Madhan Karky, Cheran. The album was released by Cheran's music company Dream Sounds Digital Solution on 15 September 2013. The film's score was composed by Siddharth Vipin who also composed three additional songs for the film. Milliblog wrote: "Cheran's last film as director – Pokkisham – had fantastic music from Sabesh Murali; the move to GV Prakash Kumar produces underwhelming results". Indiaglitz wrote: "Funky, rocking and melodious, the album has everything that the youth these days want to listen to. Predominantly duets and only one solo to speak of, the album will certainly be a popular favourite among all". Behindwoods wrote:"There are moments of classic GVP, but could have done with few more".
Tamil
Telugu

Marketing
Sharwanand had dubbed for his character in Tamil. As part of the promotion Cheran initiated a project named JK Fest 2013, in which college students from Tamil Nadu could participate. Students were asked to visualise and use their creativity to enact the songs of JK Enum Nanbanin Vaazhkai without knowing the film's story. Cheran revealed that the film would be released on Internet, DVD and satellite, on the same day of its theatrical release. Cheran added that by releasing the film across all media on the same day, piracy could be curbed. However, the theatrical release did not happen; the film was instead released as a direct-to-video film on 6 March 2015, via Cheran's C2H (Cinema2Home) initiative. The Telugu version, initially titled Yemito Ee Maya, was later retitled as Rajadhi Raja and released theatrically on 24 June 2016, with the makers attempting to profit from Sharwanand's resurgence at the Telugu box office. However, this version failed commercially.

Reception
Baradwaj Rangan wrote for The Hindu, "JK Enum Nanbanin Vaazhkai feels like Cheran's attempt to show that he isn't, anymore, the sentimental, melodramatic filmmaker whose good intentions haven't always resulted in good movies (or good box-office collections). He's trying to show us that he can be young, hip. [...] JK Enum Nanbanin Vaazhkai may have worked if Cheran had stuck to his style". Regarding the Telugu version, a critic from The Hans India wrote that "Rajadhi Raja is a breezy feel good film with colourful visuals, enchanting score and well sketched characters.
Passage 8:
Udhayam NH4
Udhayam NH4 is a 2013 Indian Tamil-language action thriller film directed by debutant Manimaran, a former associate of Vetrimaaran. The film stars Siddharth and newcomer Ashrita Shetty. Vetrimaaran wrote the script, did the screenplay, and penned the dialogues for this film. The story takes place in Bangalore, Karnataka. The film's soundtrack and background score were composed by G. V. Prakash Kumar. The film released along with a dubbed Telugu version titled NH4 on 19 April 2013.

Plot
Prabhu falls in love with Rithika, his classmate, who reciprocates his feelings, but are separated after Rithika's father disapproves of their relationship. Prabhu, lovelorn, discusses the route from Bangalore to Chennai with his friends and plan to kidnap Rithika to elope. Meanwhile, Rithika's father, Avinash Gowda, appoints encounter specialist ACP Manoj Menon IPS, who questions Rithika's male friend Deepak about Prabhu. Deepak claims that Prabhu is a drug addict and was always trying to woo Rithika, who started to avoid him because of Prabhu. After that, the plot continues when Manoj tries to track Prabhu and his friends. In the attempt, they track down a message from another friend named Umesh, asking Prabhu and friends to come to Bangarpet bus stand, only to find Manoj and his team arresting the guy for more information. Manoj goes to a railway station where the train in which Prabhu and Rithika are travelling to Chennai via Kuppam, Andhra Pradesh. He finds Rithika and forcefully drags her into his jeep. 
As the flashback winds again (this time by Rithika), she fell for Prabhu after seeing him on many instances showing his presence of mind. As the flashback ends, Manoj finds Prabhu on the highway, where he does not stop until he runs over pieces of glass put down by Prabhu. They get into a brawl where Prabhu loses, and Manoj continues in the highway but has to stop in a railway signal at Andhra Pradesh-Karnataka border. Prabhu takes his chance and threatens Manoj, keeping his throat under a blade and taking Rithika with him. After a cat and mouse chase, Manoj calls Prabhu, saying that his friend needs immediate treatment after an accident. He goes in search of Manoj and involves in a fight with him again. Now, after the stroke of midnight, Rithika turns 18, giving her the right for choosing her partner. After that, Manoj leaves the highway, as he could not do anymore, according to the law.

Cast
Production
While working with Balu Mahendra for Adhu Oru Kana Kaalam (2005), producer Vetrimaaran prepared a script for Dhanush, who was the lead hero of the film he worked on, and Dhanush immediately accepted the offer after hearing the story. The film titled was Desiya Nedunchalai 47 was initially launched with Yuvan Shankar Raja as the music director and Ekambaram as the cinematographer. However, he found trouble finding producers with A. M. Rathnam and Salem Chandrasekhar leaving the project after initial interest, Dhanush's sister Dr. Vimala Geetha agreed to produce the film, but she also dropped the film. Dhanush's father Kasthuri Raja finally agreed to produce the film, and Kirat Bhattal was signed as heroine, while Harris Jayaraj was selected as music director. However, after two days of shoot, the film was shelved, and Dhanush opted to pursue other films after the surprise success of his Thiruvilayadal Arambam (2006). The film's collapse saw Vetrimaaran approach producer Kadiresan and narrated to him the stories he had prepared, but the producer did not like Desiya Nedunchaalai 47, but later agreed to work on another project titled Polladhavan.
Vetrimaaran restarted the film as a creative producer with Dayanidhi Azhagiri, and chose to give the script to debutant director Manimaaran, who was initially nervous to take over a script by a National film winner. The team tried to re-take the title Desiya Nedunchalai, but this name was already registered by Dr. Srinivasan, which hence led to the renaming of the title to Udhayam NH4. Cloud Nine Movies approached Siddharth for the lead role, who immediately accepted it. Kishore, who was initially approached for a role in 2006, was re-approached but was unable to commit dates for the film. Subsequently Kay Kay Menon, who Vetrimaaran had been discussing a role in his next film Vada Chennai with, was signed on to play a pivotal role in the film. Debut actress Ashrita Shetty was selected to play the lead female role. Ramya was signed to appear in a cameo appearance in the film but eventually did not feature. Newbies Ajai, Kalai and Karthi play Siddharth's friends. Velraj is the cinematographer, music by G. V. Prakash Kumar editing will be by Kishore Te. The film will be produced jointly by Dayanidhi Azhagiri and Vetrimaaran as a tie-up between their companies Meeka Entertainment and Grass Root Film Company. The filming took place only on real locations, where crowds delayed shootings up to four days, making hidden cameras mandatory.

Soundtrack
The soundtrack album was composed by G. V. Prakash Kumar. The music rights were acquired by Sony Music India. On Valentine's day, the track "Yaaro Ivan" was unveiled at Suryan FM. Actor Siddharth sang the Telugu version of this song.

Release
The satellite rights for the film were secured by Sun TV. The film was given a "U/A" certificate by the Indian Censor Board. On 14 February 2013, the first film trailer was released at Sun Music.Udhayam NH4 released in around 250 theatres across Tamil Nadu along with Gouravam (2013).

Reception
Upon release, Udhayam NH4 generally received favourable reviews. Baradwaj Rangan of The Hindu thanked the film crew for a well treated, but slight story, "[...] the constant infusion of colour keeps us hooked. I don’t think I’ve laughed so much at a cop telling his nagging wife he loves her." Behindwoods gave 3 of 5 stars and concluded, "To sum it all, Udhayam NH 4 comes across as a well packaged product that has many things going in its favor and is sure to have patrons from the youth along with other sections of the audience too." Sify recommended the film, "The presentation is unique as it doesn’t have the trappings of usual masala potboilers." in.com rated the film 3.5 out of 5 and stated that the story is simple but the taut screenplay with unexpected twists and turns at the right time makes Udhayam a good watch. Mahalakshmi Prabhakaran of Daily News and Analysis criticized the performance of Ashrita Shetty heavily, "As the character who’s the prize catch for both the cop and the boyfriend, the role’s every debutante actress' dream. But Hrishita just doesn’t match up. We are not even going to comment on her poor delivery of Tamil. Yes, she might be a Kannadiga in the movie, but that’s no excuse!", giving the film an average rating of 3. S. Saarawathi of Rediff wrote, "Udhayam NH4 is a racy entertainer that keeps you glued to the screen." Sidharth Varma of The Times of India rated it 3.5 out of 5 stars and said, "The movie brings in a whiff of fresh air in the dialogue department. The characters switch between the four south Indian languages and English depending on the place where the scene is set and the situation, which adds to the authenticity of the movie. The drama is injected in the right doses through the incidents on the highway, and flashbacks tell us more about each character." Sangeetha Devi Dundoo of The Hindu recommended the film, "Take a ride down this highway just to see how a talented director can make a simple story engaging." Review Raja found the film to be "just an alright movie", and thought, that Ashrita Shetty wasn't capable enough to play the female lead role. Bangalore Mirror gave the film 3.5 out of 5 saying that the film is well crafted.
Passage 9:
Interstellar (soundtrack)
Interstellar: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack is the soundtrack album composed by Hans Zimmer for the 2014 film Interstellar by Christopher Nolan. The soundtrack garnered critical acclaim and was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Score and the Grammy Award for Best Score Soundtrack for Visual Media.

Background and production
Hans Zimmer had previously worked with director Christopher Nolan, scoring Nolan’s The Dark Knight film trilogy and Inception. Without revealing the plot of Interstellar, Nolan wrote a short story for Zimmer about a father leaving a child to complete an important job. The story contained two sentences of dialogue: “I’ll come back,” and “When?”. Nolan then asked Zimmer to spend one day composing some musical interpretations of the story.
I am going to give you an envelope with a letter in it. One page. It's going to tell you the fable at the center of the story. You work for one day, then play me what you have written.
In one night, Zimmer wrote a four-minute piano and organ piece that represented his idea of fatherhood. When he played it for Nolan, Nolan was pleased and explained the full plot and concept of the film, though it had not yet been written. Zimmer was originally skeptical, noting that he had written a "tiny, tiny little fragile" piece while Nolan had described an intense, epic space film. However, Nolan reassured Zimmer that the piano piece provided "the heart" of the film. The piece can be heard at the conclusion of the film.For the film's signature organ, Zimmer specifically requested that organist Roger Sayer, the music director of Temple Church in London, play the church's 1926 four-manual Harrison & Harrison organ. The physical appearance of organ reminded Zimmer of spaceship afterburners, while the airiness of its sound evoked the reminder that every breath is precious for an astronaut. The rest of the ensemble consisted of 34 strings, 24 woodwinds, four pianos, and a mixed choir of 60 voices. The soundtrack was recorded at both Temple Church and AIR Lyndhurst Hall in late spring 2014.In 2022, Zimmer cited the Interstellar soundtrack as the best work of his career.

Release
Zimmer himself delayed the soundtrack album's release until two weeks after the film premiere because he wanted audiences to hear the score in theaters first.
We wanted people to really hear it for the first time with the movie on really big speakers in a theater... I just didn't want people to go and hear everything on tiny little speakers on their Mac or something like this. I wanted them to go and have the visceral experience of being pinned in their seats.
The soundtrack was released on November 17, 2014 via the WaterTower label. On November 13, 2020, WaterTower released an expanded edition of the soundtrack.

Critical reception
The score received critical acclaim. Reviewing for BBC News, Nicholas Barber felt, "Hans Zimmer's music makes the film seem even more colossal than it would otherwise: Zimmer invokes the original meaning of 'pulls out all the stops', rattling our teeth with reverberating pipe-organ chords." Scott Foundas, a chief film critic at Variety, stated, "Hans Zimmer contributes one of his most richly imagined and inventive scores, which ranges from a gentle electronic keyboard melody to brassy, Strauss-ian crescendos.Many critics have noted distinct similarities between the score and the work of Philip Glass, especially Koyaanisqatsi (1982). However, despite Interstellar's near-identical central melody and instrumentation, few have criticized Zimmer when drawing the comparison. Time Out London's Dave Calhoun exclaimed, "Listen to unnerving silence as well as Hans Zimmer's organ-heavy score!" Tim Robey of The Telegraph felt "With the vast sounds of a composer set loose on his grandest ever assignment. But it relies less on Straussian majesty à la 2001 than something rather more pointed: the hypnotic, metronomically surging, and oddly sacred homage Zimmer gives us to Koyaanisqatsi by Philip Glass." Todd McCarthy, reviewing for The Hollywood Reporter, praised it as, "soaring, sometimes domineering and unconventionally orchestrated wall-of-sound score" Richard Corliss of Time called it "pounding organ score". Jeremy Aspinall of Radio Times called the score subtle but evocative. Critic Jeffrey M. Anderson for The San Francisco Examiner writes, "rumbling and thundering sound effects and music". At The Irish Times, Donald Clarke wrote that "Hans Zimmer slumps on the biggest pipe organ in town". For NPR, Chris Klimek stated that Zimmer's gives a church-organ score. Joe Morgenstern for Wall Street Journal felt that "At one point the orchestral churnings of Hans Zimmer's score suggest something epic under way". American film critic Peter Travers at Rolling Stone noted, "thrilling images oomphed by Hans Zimmer's score, and you'll get the meaning of "‘rock the house.‘"  For The Globe and Mail, Liam Lacey stated, "Throughout, Hans Zimmer's music throbs obtrusively, occasionally fighting with the dialogue for our attention." "As usual, Nolan's frequent collaborator Hans Zimmer has come up with a score that fits the impossible dimensions of the film, and the music adds tremendously to the excitement", said critic Rene Rodriguez, writing for The Miami Herald. Ann Hornaday for The Washington Post commented, "Hans Zimmer's basso profundo organ-music score and pummeling sound effects." Steven Biscotti of Soundtrack.net too praised the soundtrack stating, "Hans Zimmer has created a close to perfect musical canvas for those extremely dedicated to the audio experience. The compositional technique on the album may turn off a few, as it is different than Zimmer's recent offerings. However, for those that stick with the album, they will see it 'not go gentle into that good night.' Zimmer's Interstellar rages!" and awarded a perfect five out of five stars.In response to criticisms about the music being too overpowering and at times drowning out the dialogue, Nolan told The Hollywood Reporter: "Many of the filmmakers I’ve admired over the years have used sound in bold and adventurous ways. I don’t agree with the idea that you can only achieve clarity through dialogue. Clarity of story, clarity of emotions—I  try to achieve that in a very layered way using all the different things at my disposal—picture and sound."Jonathan Broxton of Movie Music UK acclaimed the album, stating, "The orchestration choices, especially the stripped down ensemble and the use of the pipe organ, shows a composer not afraid to think outside the box, and find unique solutions to the musical problems his film presents, and the emotional content of the score is high, but not overwhelming", and summarised with, "It's an absolute lock for an Oscar nomination, and is one of the best scores of 2014." Tangerine Circus's guitarist Francesc Messeguer cited the score and the film as one of his top five favorite albums and films, respectively.In his in-depth musical analysis, Mark Richards of Film Music Notes concludes: "Rather than simply being associated with a certain character or group of characters, Zimmer’s themes tend to emphasize the emotions a particular character or group is feeling at various points in the film. [...] Interstellar has at its core an emotional story of love between a father and his daughter. Appropriately, Hans Zimmer places the Murph and Cooper theme front and center in the score [...]. Of course, since the film also includes some riveting action sequences, the score does make use of an action theme, but in typical Zimmer style, this theme serves two different functions as it is also the familial love theme. [...] And Zimmer also captures Interstellar’s focus on the wonder of the natural world in a separate theme. Thus, the score provides an effective glue for the film by drawing emotional links between various events, character motivations, and visual spectacles that might otherwise seem rather disconnected."

Track listing
Standard edition
Deluxe edition bonus tracks
Illuminated Star Projection edition
Vinyl Edition (Standard)
MovieTickets.com bonus track
Personnel
Credits adapted from CD liner notes.
All music composed by Hans Zimmer

Charts
Certifications
Passage 10:
G. V. Prakash Kumar
G. V. Prakash Kumar is an Indian music composer, playback singer, actor and producer known for his work in Tamil films and a few Telugu films as well. His first film was S Pictures' Veyil (2006) and he gained fame in Tamil films by the early 2010s. He made his debut in acting on 2015 through Darling. He has won one National Award and three Filmfare Awards in his film career.

Early life
Prakash Kumar is the only son of G. Venkatesh and playback singer A. R. Reihana, who is the elder sister of music director A. R. Rahman. He also has a younger sister named Bhavani Sre, who is an actress and appeared in films such as "Vidudhalai"Ka Pae Ranasingam and Paava Kadhaigal.

Personal life
Prakash married his schoolmate, singer Saindhavi, in 2013. The couple became parents to a daughter named Anvi in 2020.

Career
Music direction
He first appeared as a vocalist on the soundtrack of director S. Shankar's Tamil film Gentleman (1993), composed by his maternal uncle, A. R. Rahman. He has also contributed to some of Rahman's other projects. He had also worked with Harris Jayaraj and sang two songs in Anniyan (2005) and Unnale Unnale (2007).
G.V. Prakash's introduction as a film composer was in the critically acclaimed Tamil film Veyil (2006) directed by Vasanthabalan and produced by director S. Shankar. His music in the film Madrasapattinam (2010), directed by A. L. Vijay was appreciated, especially his song "Pookal Pookum Tharunam".
He went on to win critical acclaim for his music in Selvaraghavan's fantasy action adventure film Aayirathil Oruvan (2009), National award winning Aadukalam (2010) and drama film Mayakkam Enna (2011), which became his third collaboration that featured Dhanush in the lead role. The album's five songs were written by Selvaraghavan and Dhanush, with the pair also coming together to sing the song "Kadhal En Kadhal". The album also included the song "Pirai Thedum", which Prakash sang himself along with his fiancée, Saindhavi whilst another song "Voda Voda Voda", written and sung by Dhanush, was composed in just 5 minutes and recorded within an hour. Rediff.com reviewed the soundtrack claiming that Prakash had "tried very hard to walk away from his comfort zone and provide the kind of edgy numbers Selvaraghavan demands, and has risen to the challenge". Critics from entertainment portal Behindwoods.com cited that Prakash "reiterates his talent once again" and gave a verdict that the album is "intoxicating enough". In late September 2011, a single track "Oru Murai", written by Thamarai and composed and sung by Prakash in R. S. Infotainment's Muppozhudhum Un Karpanaigal (2012) was released. His subsequent releases include the political satire Saguni (2012) and the background score of the Hindi crime film Gangs of Wasseypur and also composed Sunrisers Hyderabad's first anthem. Songs of the movie Darling (2015) were hits. Especially "Vandha Mala", "Anbe Anbe" and "Sattunu Idi Mazhai".This is also the debut film for Prakash as an actor. Prakash's songs in Kaaka Muttai (2015) were massive hits. "Karuppu Karuppu" song was on charts for a few months. "Karuppu Nerathazhagi" was a huge hit from Komban (2015). G.V. Prakash signed his 50th film with director Atlee that is Vijay's 59th, which is named Theri (2016).GV Prakash's Last two releases as a composer and not his film as an actor are Vetrimaaran-Dhanush's Asuran (2019) and Sudha Kongara-Suriya's Soorarai Pottru (2020).

Film production
In 2013, Prakash Kumar launched his own production house under the name "GV Prakash Kumar Productions". His first film Madha Yaanai Koottam, was directed by Vikram Sugumaran, a former assistant of Balu Mahendra.

Acting
In 2012, director A.R. Murugadoss approached Kumar regarding a potential acting venture. Prakash agreed to star in the project, however, the film later failed to take off. He subsequently signed on to appear in three films in quick succession, with the three entering production simultaneously. In order to further his acting ability, he took lessons from actor Aadukalam Naren and has noted that his stage performances as a singer were also helpful in demonstrating his potential as an actor.Prakash was going to make his acting debut in a film titled Pencil, opposite Sri Divya, where he will be playing a school student. However, as Pencil's release was delayed, his first release became the horror film Darling. A remake of the 2013 Telugu film Prema Katha Chitram. Thereafter, Trisha Illana Nayanthara (2015). The film deals with the present day definition of love and the perspective of today's youngsters of both genders about love, relationship, virginity etc. In 2016, he appeared in Pencil and two comedies films Enakku Innoru Per Irukku and Kadavul Irukaan Kumaru. The next is Bruce Lee  (2017). He acted in the climax sequence as cameo appearance with Silambarasan's Anbanavan Asaradhavan Adangadhavan (2017). In 2018, he starred in Bala's action crime Naachiyaar. He acted in second role next to Jyothika. Then the comedy-drama, Semma released on May. In 2019, he had five releases this year with Sarvam Thaala Mayam, Kuppathu Raja, Watchman, Sivappu Manjal Pachai and 100% Kadhal.
In 2021, his film Vanakkam Da Mappilei was a direct to OTT release. It was marks the second collaboration of G. V. Prakash and Rajesh after 2016's Kadavul Irukaan Kumaru. Following Bachelor and Jail were released in December.

Discography
Original scores
#Film score by another composer
#2Soundtrack by another composer
Upcoming films as composerThe films are listed in order that the music released, regardless of the dates the film released.
The year next to the title of the affected films indicates the release year of the either dubbed or remade version in the named language later than the original version.
• indicates original language release. Indicates simultaneous makes, if featuring in more languages
♦ indicates a remade version, the remaining ones being dubbed versionsTelevision

As singer
Film songsInternational Single

Independent songs

Filmography
As actor
As producerMadha Yaanai Koottam (2013)

As dubbing artist
Awards and nominations