Passage 1:
WSYY-FM
WSYY-FM (94.9 FM) is a radio station broadcasting a full-service adult hits format. Licensed to Millinocket, Maine, United States, the station's broadcast signal serves Central Penobscot County, Eastern Piscataquis County, and Southern Aroostook County, from its tower site in Millinocket. The station is owned by Katahdin Communications, Inc.WSYY-FM plays a mix of oldies/classic hits, adult contemporary, rock music, and some country crossovers. The station also features programming from CBS News Radio (and has been an affiliate of that network for many decades). WSYY-FM also airs When Radio Was.

History
In 1978, WSYY-FM was founded on 97.7 FM as WKTR, upgrading to its current facilities in 1984 on 94.9. Prior to their The Mountain 94.9 branding, WSYY-FM used to be referred to as North Country 95, airing country music full-time. The current format, branding, and slogan was probably adopted around March 1, 2004, when Katahdin Communications, Inc. assumed control of WSYY-FM & AM from Katahdin Timberlands, LLC as a result of the radio station facing increasing land disputes, initially as a short term lease agreement, but the transfer of ownership became permanent. Those land disputes would lead to a loss of WSYY-FM's 23,500-watt transmitter location (featuring an antenna HAAT of 211 meters). WSYY-FM may have been operating under a Special Temporary Authority License (a 12,000-watt facility with an antenna HAAT of 68 meters via Hammond Ridge on Lake Road), ever since as long ago as late 2007, pending a planned permanent move to a 22,000-watt facility with an antenna HAAT of 198.4 meters (from just off Nicatou Road in Medway, well east of WSYY-FM's old or current transmitter tower location). On November 23, 2016, the construction permit for this proposed move was modified to a 45,000-watt facility with an antenna HAAT of 146.7 meters, the first time this proposed move has ever received official approval from the FCC.

Former sports offerings
The Mountain 94.9 carried local high school sports in season until fall 2017. The Mountain 94.9 also carried the schedule of Red Sox Baseball from 1997 through 2015, when Millinocket's affiliation with the Boston Red Sox Radio Network transferred to co-owned WSYY, concluding the interruptions to the music during Major League Baseball. The transfer was completed on April 2, 2021, when 1240 WSYY returned to the air with translator 102.5 W273DJ debuting with the opening game of the Boston Red Sox.

Syndicated programming
WSYY-FM is one of two Maine affiliates (the other being WLOB in Portland) of When Radio Was, is one of the two Maine affiliates (the other being WWMJ) of The Acoustic Storm, is Maine's only affiliate of the Crook & Chase syndicated country music countdown programming, and is an affiliate of the Blues Deluxe radio show.
Passage 2:
KAND
KAND (1340  AM) is a radio station that serves the Corsicana/Ennis/Waxahachie area, and is owned by New Century Broadcasting. This station runs a country music  format, and is also the home of Corsicana High School Tigers and Navarro College Bulldogs football games, and the latest news from the Texas State Network News, and CBS News. As of July 11, 2008, it airs sports programming from Fox Sports Radio during overnights and weekends. For many years, the KAND call sign was assigned to the station now called KWPW.

History
KAND began in 1937 as a Variety/Entertainment station on 1310 kHz but 10 years later moved to AM 1340 and has maintained its variety format until the 1980s when they made a slow transition to Country music. The original station owner was J.C. West, who also owned the Wolf Brand (canned) Chili plant in Corsicana. West had applied for callsign WOLF, but the Federal Communications Commission wouldn't permit it because the WOLF call letters are currently in use on Syracuse, New York's AM station.
In March 2008 Yates Communications announced FCC approval to buy KAND.
On July 9, 2010, Yates decided to sell this station to New Century BroadcastingIn 2014, KAND shifted to country full-time and switched news sources from ABC News to CBS.
Passage 3:
WSTU
WSTU (1450 kHz) is a commercial AM radio station licensed to Stuart, Florida, and serving the Treasure Coast.  It broadcasts a talk radio format.  The station is currently owned by Treasure Coast Broadcasters, Inc.
WSTU broadcasts at 1,000 watts.  It uses a non-directional antenna.

Programming
WSTU has a local weekday morning show, "Get Up and Go with Evan and Bonnie."   The rest of the weekday schedule includes some brokered programming hours, with conservative talk from Fox News Radio, including Brian Kilmeade, Jimmy Failla and Guy Benson.

History
WSTU signed on the air in December 1954.  Les Combs was the original owner.  In 1969 the station was sold to Harvey L Glascock, whose family owned the station until 1997 when it was sold to American Radio Systems.  After a brief ownership by a Broward County businessman, it was sold to Barry Grant Marsh and David Pomerance.  Marsh had been Operations Manager of WSTU for many years under the Glasscock family.
The station was purchased by Treasure Coast Broadcasters in 2001.  When WSTU went on the air, Stuart went from the biggest city on Florida's east coast without its own radio station to the smallest city on Florida's east coast with its own radio station.  WSTU had a strong local news commitment from the start, and continues that to this day under News Director Tom Teter, who has been with the station since 1980.  Teter has won many awards for news excellence from UPI and AP including Best Newscast in Florida and Best Spot News Reporting. From the earliest days the Martin County community viewed the station as more of a public utility than a privately owned radio station.WSTU was also one of the first radio stations in Florida to broadcast high school sports on a regular basis and continues to broadcast high school football, basketball and baseball. Hamp Elliot did the play-by-play for many years followed by Teter who handled the play-by-play for more than 20 years.  Rick McGuire now does much of the play-by-play. This summary written by Tom Teter.For a period of time,  WSTU (1450) AM radio station program schedule included a Saturday Night Dancing 'Bongo' Party from 7 p.m. to 11:30 p.m., hosted by Walter Oden. On weekday afternoons in the 1960s, the station played the 'pop' tunes and encouraged teens to call in and request a song to be dedicated to a friend or 'sweetheart,' which was then announced and played on-air. This radio show  is credited with easing the path to school integration in the late 1960s.
Passage 4:
Radioshow
Radioshow is а cult Lithuanian black comedy radio and TV show hosted by Algis Ramanauskas-Greitai and Rimas Šapauskas. It is also the name of their humorous rock band. Radioshow has started at radio station Radiocentras in 1992. Later it has moved to the radio station Ultra Vires. In 1995 Radioshow debuted as a comedy puppet show on TV at LNK station. From 1997 till 1999 Radioshow was running at BTV TV station. In 2004 it briefly ran on Vilnius radio station Užupio radijas before being shut down, because of swearing on the air. However the show was immediately picked up by the regional radio station Vox Maris.

Controversy
Because of the constant taboo breaking, swearing and making fun of the symbols of national pride, Radioshow was often criticized by the conservative media and the older generation. Music critic Viktoras Gerulaitis has stated, that "These guys are sowing the seed of Satan, and it seems there is no-one that could stop them". This quote was later sampled into the song by Algis Ramanauskas' band Svastikos Sukitės Greitai. It is ironic, that today Algis Ramanauskas is a member of the conservative Homeland Union party.
Another controversy was caused in 1995 by the obscene album Unplugged attributed to Radioshow. However Algis Ramanauskas denied his authorship and claimed, that it was a bootleg made by the imitators.

Characters
Main characters
Bronius
Bronius is approaching retirement age and is full of sentiments to the Soviet era. He often refers to programming of the Russian TV and Belarusian radio and television. He is annoyed by modern Lithuania - he has some command of English but uses it mostly to communicate disgust with all things Western. Bronius has a dirty mind and a dirty mouth and enjoys sexual innuendo and filthy fantasies, particularly those involving TV celebrities, which he describes with considerable inspiration and lewd detail. Bronius is a character voiced by Algis Greitai.

Česlovas
Česlovas is a former teacher. Česlovas' looks resemble former speaker of the Lithuanian Parliament social democrat Česlovas Juršėnas. This character is married and has two daughters (Sigutė and Akvilė), but despite that he often displays random acts of latent homosexuality, as the most of Radioshow characters do. Česlovas is voiced by Rimas Šapauskas.

Albinas
Albinas, also referred to as Senis (English: Old man), is a 100-year-old man of far-right nationalistic beliefs. His claim that he was born in the mountains of Scotland is a reference to the TV series The Highlander. Albinas makes frequent references to his pre-war memories.

Zbygniewas
Zbygniewas is a character of Polish ethnicity, speaking Lithuanian with a heavily inflicted Russian accent. Zbygniewas claims to hail from Nemenčinė, a town near capital Vilnius with large predominance of Polish, Belarusian and Russian population. In his younger days he was a hippie and used to read Kafka. His career included a stint at as a communal heating boiler attendant, a choice occupation for rebellious intellectuals in the former Soviet Union, and also at a mortuary, which involved a sexual encounter with a dead female body, which Zbygniewas discusses with great reluctance. He is voiced by Algis Ramanauskas-Greitai.

Igorj
Russian speaking character voiced by Rimas Šapauskas.

Mindaugas, later - Budulis
Coarse-voiced, aggressive young Lithuanian gangster guided by values and rules of Russian prison life ("paniatkes") and making frequent references to his encounters with the law enforcement authorities. This character underwent some changes and is currently known as Budulis. He is discernible from a blackened mouth and a track suit worn on a permanent basis. In later episodes of the show, Budulis makes references to his work as a labourer in Ireland. (voiced by Rimas Šapauskas)

Filadelfijus
Filadelfijus is a young incompetent journalist. His name originates from a motion picture title Philadelphia. In the beginning he was speaking in a high-pitched voice, hinting that he might be homosexual. However, in the later shows unprofessional babbling and not the allusions to his homosexuality became his distinctive mark. Filadelfijus is voiced by Rimas Šapauskas.

Minor characters
Mindė - nationalist character (animated pig's head); Vanga - Bulgarian  prophetess (animated portrait of Lithuanian writer Žemaitė, taken from one Litas banknote); Dujokaukė Kiulamae - Estonian character always speaking derogaratively about the Lithuanians (his name translates into English from Lithuanian as "Gas Mask" and the surname is of the former BC Žalgiris Estonian basketball player Gert Kullamäe; Slavik from Maladzechna; Almantas, a gay type.

Discography
1996 Plugged
2001 Underground
2001 Raštai
2005 Kronikos #1
2005 Kronikos #2

See also
South Park Republican
Baltish
Passage 5:
Bill McCutcheon
James William McCutcheon (May 23, 1924 – January 9, 2002) was an American character actor known for his roles in film, television, and theatre, several of which won him Emmy and Tony awards.

Early life
McCutcheon was born in Russell, Kentucky, the son of  Robert Kenna McCutcheon, who was a railroad conductor and Florence Louise (née Elam). McCutcheon's first major role was Leo the Leprechaun on The Howdy Doody Show. He followed this appearance with a recurring role (from 1984 to 1992) as Uncle Wally on the children's television series by PBS, Sesame Street, for which he won an Emmy.He also had a prominent role in the movie of 1989, Steel Magnolias, in which he played Owen Jenkins, beau of Ouiser Boudreaux (Shirley MacLaine).

Career
He was also active in film and on the stage. His first film appearance was in 1964's Santa Claus Conquers the Martians; later on, he was seen in movies including Family Business and Steel Magnolias. McCutcheon was a familiar face to young audience in the 1960s, when he appeared on several Tootsie Roll television commercials. His theatre credits include a role as Moonface Martin in Anything Goes, which won him a Tony Award for Best Featured Actor in a Musical.
Other stage appearances include You Can't Take It with You and The Man Who Came to Dinner.

Death
A resident of Mahwah, New Jersey, McCutcheon died on January 9, 2002, of natural causes, aged 77. He had three children, Carol, Jay, and Kenna.

Filmography
Passage 6:
KYTC (FM)
KYTC (102.7 FM, "Super Hits 102.7") is a radio station that broadcasts a classic hits music format. Licensed to Northwood, Iowa, U.S., it serves northern Iowa and southern Minnesota. The station is currently owned by Alpha Media, through licensee Digity 3E License, LLC. The station was originally operated by Northwood businessman, Marlin Hanson as an oldies radio station with an effective radiated power of 3,000 watts, then 6,000 watts. Hanson built the station because he bought the tower from the local cable company after they abandoned it and decided a radio station would be a good use for the empty tower. It was sold to Dave Nolander who also owned KATE radio in Albert Lea, MN. It was operated as an oldies station featuring music of the 1950s and 1960s from a studio located in Northwood and satellite programming during the evening hours. The station was sold to Three Eagles Communications and the power increased to 25,000 watts. Between 2002 and 2012. the station changed from Oldies to Country to active rock and finally back to a hits of the 1960s through the 1980s. The station transmitter is located 3 miles north of Northwood and the studio is located in Mason City. Current owner Digity, LLC purchased the station on September 12, 2014.

History
On February 4, 2012, KYTC changed format from active rock (branded as "The Blaze") to classic hits, branded as "Super Hits 102.7".

External links

KYTC in the FCC FM station database
KYTC on Radio-Locator
KYTC in Nielsen Audio's FM station database
Passage 7:
Voix du Sahel
La Voix du Sahel (English: "Voice of the Sahel") is the national radio station of Niger, owned by the Nigerien government, operating on 91.3MHZ. Based in Niamey, the radio station was established in 1958 as Radio Niger but adopted its current name in 1974. It is the only national radio station in the country and is the only radio station to offer programs in eight different languages including French.

See also
Media of Niger
Passage 8:
Al Lewis (actor)
Al Lewis (born Abraham Meister; April 30, 1923 – February 3, 2006) was an American actor and activist, best known for his role as Count Dracula-lookalike Grandpa on the television series The Munsters from 1964 to 1966 and its film versions. He previously also co-starred with The Munsters's Fred Gwynne in the television show Car 54, Where Are You?  from 1961–1963. Later in life, he was a restaurant owner, political candidate, and radio broadcaster.

Early life
Lewis was born Abraham Meister on April 30, 1923 in Manhattan. His parents Alexander and Ida (née Neidel), a house painter from Minsk and a garment worker respectively, were immigrants from the Russian Empire; his family was Jewish. Two brothers were Phillip and Henry. He had originally given his birth year as 1910. His reputed early radio work in the mid-1930s would indicate the earlier birth date, as did an off-the-cuff remark on the TVLegends interview, 2002, where he says "not a bad memory for 92". Ted Lewis, his son, firmly said his father was born in 1923 in Brownsville, Brooklyn, New York. Other sources placed his birth in Wolcott, New York, but no official record of his birth has been published to date (2006), and officials in Wolcott say they have no record of any Meister. The Times wrote: "Lewis was born Albert Meister, probably in 1923, but he insisted that he was born in 1910. This, and Lewis's many other questionable stories, means that much of the actor's life is a broth of conjecture that his fans will no doubt squabble over for years to come." On his application for a Social Security number, completed sometime between 1936 and 1950, Lewis gave his date of birth as April 30, 1923. The 1940 census lists an Albert Meister "age 16" living on Douglass (today's Strauss) Street in Brooklyn, New York.
In a 1998 interview with Walt Shepperd, Lewis said:My mother was a worker, worked in the garment trades. My mother was an indomitable spirit. My grandfather had no sons. He had six daughters. They lived in Poland or Russia, every five years it would change. My mother being the oldest daughter, they saved their money, and when she was about sixteen they sent her to the United States, not knowing a word of English. She went to work in the garment center, worked her back and rear-end off and brought over to the United States her five sisters and two parents. I remember going on picket lines with my mother. My mother wouldn't back down to anyone.

Education
According to a report in The Jewish Week, Al Lewis attended Yeshiva Chaim Berlin in Brooklyn, New York, in his youth and "asked annoying questions to the teachers." Lewis then attended Thomas Jefferson High School, which he left in his junior year. He claimed to have attended Oswego State Teachers College (now SUNY Oswego), notwithstanding his lack of a high school diploma, and to have earned a Ph.D. in child psychology from Columbia University in 1941, of which Columbia has no record. Lewis did send at least one of his children to Yeshiva in the San Fernando Valley.

Career
Acting
His acting career begins the well-documented portion of his life. He worked in burlesque and vaudeville theaters, then on Broadway in the dramas The Night Circus (1958) and One More River (1960) and as the character Moe Shtarker in the musical comedy Do Re Mi (1962).His earliest television work includes appearances on the crime drama Decoy and The Phil Silvers Show. From 1959 to 1963, he appeared in four episodes of Naked City. Lewis's first well-known television role was as Officer Leo Schnauser on the sitcom Car 54, Where Are You? from 1961 to 1963, also starring Fred Gwynne (Lewis reprised the role in the 1994 movie of the same name). In the series, Lewis first played Al Spencer the Auto Body Man in two early first-season episodes, then landed the more familiar role of Officer Schnauser. He is best remembered as Grandpa on The Munsters, which ran on CBS from 1964 to 1966.In 1967, Lewis played the part of Zalto the magician in the Lost in Space episode "Rocket to Earth". His first role in a movie was as Machine Gun Manny in Pretty Boy Floyd (1960). He had small roles in The World of Henry Orient (1964), They Shoot Horses, Don't They? (1969), and They Might Be Giants (1971). He appeared as Hanging Judge Harrison in Used Cars (1980), played a security guard on an episode of Taxi, and had a minor role in Married to the Mob (1988). His last film role was in Night Terror (2002).
Lewis was a recurring guest on The Howard Stern Show. In 1987, during a "Howard Stern Freedom Rally" against the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) that was broadcast live, Lewis repeatedly shouted "fuck the FCC!" until Stern was able to take the microphone away from him. Stern and the station were not punished for Lewis's comments.
Unlike some actors, Lewis did not mind being typecast. He enjoyed acting out his Grandpa character—in the original costume—and got a surprising amount of mileage from such a short-lived role. "Why not?" he said. "It pays the bills."In 1991, he appeared as Grandpa in an episode of Hi Honey, I'm Home on ABC. In 1991, he appeared in a low-budget movie titled Grampire (My Grandpa Is a Vampire in the U.S. version), wearing much the same costume as he did in The Munsters. From 1987 to 1989, Lewis hosted Super Scary Saturday on TBS in his Grandpa outfit. This was parodied in Gremlins 2: The New Batch with the character of Grandpa Fred (Robert Prosky).

Other pursuits
Lewis was a proponent of free speech and frequently spoke out in the late 1980s and early 1990s against government entities such as the FCC (Federal Communications Commission) and non-government entities such as the PMRC (Parents Music Resource Center).  Lewis famously uttered the phrase "(expletive) the FCC", during a speech at a Manhattan rally organized by radio personality Howard Stern. Stern later used Lewis' speech as the opening track of Stern's Crucified by the FCC comedy album in early 1991.
Lewis appeared in an episode of The American Experience where he recalled his experiences at Coney Island, which he frequently visited and worked at as a game barker. He was featured in the Atari 7800 videogame Midnight Mutants, an action-adventure title with a Halloween theme. His appearance in the game mirrored his Grandpa persona in The Munsters.In 1987, he opened an Italian restaurant named Grampa's Bella Gente at 252 Bleecker Street in Manhattan. In September 1989, he licensed a comedy club named Grampa's to an entrepreneurial mafia family named Cataldo in New Dorp Plaza in Staten Island.

Politics
As a left-wing activist, he hosted a politically oriented radio program on WBAI (whose theme song was King Curtis' "Foot Pattin'") and ran as Green Party candidate for governor of New York in 1998. In that race, he sought to be listed on the ballot as Grandpa Al Lewis, arguing that he was most widely known by that name. His request was rejected by the Board of Elections, a decision upheld in court against his challenge.Despite this setback, he achieved one of his campaign objectives. His total of 52,533 votes exceeded the threshold of votes set by New York law (50,000) and hence guaranteed the Green Party of New York an automatic ballot line for the next four years (see election results, New York governor). He said that, with no political machine and no money backing him, the likelihood of winning the governorship would be "like climbing Mount Everest barefooted". In 2000, he sought the Green Party nomination for US Senate; he ultimately placed second in the primary, with about 32 percent of the vote, losing to Mark Dunau.

Personal life and final years
Lewis married Marge Domowitz in 1956, with whom he had three sons, Dave, Ted, and Paul. The marriage ended in divorce in 1977. In 1984, he married actress Karen Ingenthron, to whom he remained married for the rest of his life.In his final years, he resided on Roosevelt Island in New York City. In 2003, he was hospitalized for an angioplasty, and complications from the surgery led to an emergency bypass and the amputation of his right leg below the knee as well as all of the toes on his left foot. He died on February 3, 2006, of natural causes in Goldwater Memorial Hospital on Roosevelt Island in New York, NY. Following his body's cremation, his ashes were reportedly "placed in his favorite cigar box."

Filmography
Film
Television
Theater
Electoral history
Passage 9:
Q101 Chicago
WKQX (101.1 FM) is a commercial radio station licensed to Chicago, Illinois, featuring an alternative rock format known as "Q101". Owned by Cumulus Media, the station serves the Chicago metropolitan area. WKQX's studios are located in the NBC Tower, while the station transmitter is located atop the John Hancock Center. In addition to a standard analog transmission, WKQX broadcasts over two HD Radio channels, and is available online.
WKQX is best known for carrying an alternative rock format that, from 1992 until 2011 and since 2022, has used the "Q101" brand. A sale of the station to Merlin Media in August 2011 saw outgoing owner Emmis Communications sell the "Q101 Chicago" name, intellectual property and all underlying trademarks for a unrelated internet radio station bearing the same name, while WKQX itself flipped to all-news radio under Merlin Media as WWWN, then to adult contemporary as WIQI. Reverting to alternative under a long-term local marketing agreement by Cumulus Media in 2014, the station branded instead under the restored WKQX call sign until Cumulus reacquired the Q101 trademarks on May 3, 2022. A former NBC Radio owned-and-operated station, WKQX's studios were located in the Merchandise Mart from the station's 1948 launch to 2016; the station relocated to the NBC Tower, the current home of onetime sister station WMAQ-TV, on August 4, 2016.WKQX-HD2 airs a classic rock format branded as "The Loop" that was previously heard on the former WLUP (97.9 FM), now WCKL.

History
The NBC years
NBC, which had an owned-and-operated station in Chicago since 1931 with WMAQ (670 AM), signed on WMAQ-FM on October 13, 1948, from studios in the Merchandise Mart. Its transmitter was located atop the Civic Opera Building, where it broadcast with an ERP of 24,000 watts. In its early years, WMAQ-FM generally operated as an outright simulcast of WMAQ.The station began airing a classical music format afternoons and evenings in 1966, though it continued to simulcast WMAQ during mornings and early afternoons. By the early 1970s, it had adopted an easy listening format. In 1970, the station's transmitter was moved to the John Hancock Center.In late 1972, WMAQ-FM adopted an automated adult hits format, with programming from TM Productions. In 1974, the station's call letters were changed to WJOI. In January 1975, WMAQ 670 adopted a country music format. WJOI followed suit, and aired an automated country music format aimed at a somewhat younger audience than WMAQ, with programming from TM Productions.In June 1975, the station's call letters were changed to WNIS-FM, and it adopted an all news format carrying NBC Radio Network's News and Information Service (NIS).In January 1977, the station's call sign was changed to WKQX, and it adopted an album-oriented rock format. The program director was Bob Pittman, who later created MTV and is now CEO of iHeartMedia. Bob Heymann served as assistant program director and morning drive host, and Bob King was the music director. Mitch Michaels did afternoon drive and Lorna Ozmon did nights.In the spring of 1977, Chicago gained another AOR station, WLUP, resulting in four FM rock stations (WKQX, WXRT, WDAI, and WLUP) competing against each other. By January 1979, WDAI switched to an all-disco format and WKQX became an adult contemporary station; Joel Sebastian hosted mornings.

Q101
In the early 1980s, WKQX began to be branded "Q-101". By the mid-1980s, the station had evolved into a Hot AC format. During this period, the station carried Sexually Speaking with Dr. Ruth Westheimer.From 1983 to 1993, Robert Murphy was the morning drive host on Q101. Tommy Edwards joined the station as program director in 1986. Starting in 1987, NBC began a two-year-long divestiture of their radio properties. In 1988, Emmis Communications purchased WKQX, along with four other NBC radio stations, for $121.5 million.
In the mid to late 1980s, WKQX aired an adult top 40 format, with the slogan "Today's Music". Q101 continued to evolve, and on July 14, 1992, WKQX adopted an alternative rock format as "Chicago's New Rock Alternative". Bill Gamble was the station's Program Director. 
In July 1993, former MTV VJ Mark Goodman was hired as morning host, replacing Robert Murphy, but he remained in this position less than a year. In July 1998, Q101 became the new home of Mancow Muller's morning show after he left WRCX the previous month.Specialty shows on the station, like Local 101, showcased promising local acts, many of whom went on to achieve greater prominence.On April 1, 2005, WKQX went "on shuffle", with its playlist expanded from 200 to approximately 1,000 songs. Instead of focusing solely on new music, they expanded their playlist to include classic alternative rock from the 1980s and 1990s, and some 1970s artists. Mancow was dropped by the station on July 14, 2006, with Emmis Communications replacing his show with one that they felt would better appeal to their target demographic.On September 18, 2006, Q101 launched The Morning Fix, a morning show led by former WXDX-FM Pittsburgh personality Alan Cox, and presented in a manner similar to The Daily Show, featuring a blend of current events and pop culture. However, on November 9, 2007, The Morning Fix underwent major changes when it was decided that morning airtime would be more wisely used playing music; the changes resulted in only 2 of the shows' original 6 members remaining, Alan Cox and Jim "Jesus" Lynam. On August 1, 2008, Cox and Lynam were let go, with management moving Brian Sherman and Steve Tingle from afternoons to the morning slot.During its tenure as an alternative rock station, WKQX served as host to several music festivals and events, mainly Jamboree at Tweeter Center in Tinley Park every June, and Twisted (formerly Twisted Christmas) at various venues every December.

Purchase by Merlin Media
On June 21, 2011, Emmis announced that it would sell WKQX, sister station WLUP-FM, and WRXP-FM in New York City to Merlin Media, whose CEO was former Tribune Company and Clear Channel Communications executive Randy Michaels. Emmis, who retained a minority stake in Merlin Media, granted Merlin a local marketing agreement to operate WKQX and WLUP-FM from July 15 until the sale officially closed on September 1. A format flip for WKQX, from alternative rock to all-news, was rumored after the sale was announced. Michaels was on record as saying, "My favorite format has always been spoken radio... it's time for spoken word to move to FM."The entire airstaff at Q101 was dismissed upon Merlin Media's formal takeover that July 14. That same day, Emmis sold off the "Q101" name, related intellectual properties, and the Q101.com web domain, to Broadcast Barter Radio Networks.Q101's final on-air staffed show, "Local 101", concluded at approximately 1:01 a.m. on July 15; the program ended with "Tonight, Tonight" by Chicago-based The Smashing Pumpkins, The Cure's "Friday I'm in Love" (the first song played at Q101's 1992 inception as an alternative station), and formal goodbyes by Chris Payne, Pogo, and other Q101 staffers. Q101 would continue solely as an online stream programmed, in part, by Emmis' KROX-FM, before BBRN eventually relaunched it as an internet-only station. WKQX itself continued without on-air staffing until Midnight on July 19; after playing "Closing Time" by Semisonic, WKQX began stunting with adult contemporary music along with news reports as "FM New". Robert Murphy returned to the station after 19 years to host mornings along with Lise Dominique for a few weeks until the full format switch took place.

FM News 101.1
On July 21, 2011, WKQX changed its call letters to WWWN, a call sign moved from a silent signal in Watseka, Illinois licensed to Randy Michaels' Radioactive LLC. Eight days after the call letter change, on July 29, at 4 p.m., WWWN launched an all-news format branded as "FM News 101.1."At the outset, "FM News 101.1" sought to differentiate itself from WBBM by highlighting its round-the-clock newswheel (as opposed to Chicago Bears flagship WBBM), aiming for a looser, less formal news presentation with a conversational tone, and deviating from hard news in favor of lifestyle, health and entertainment features. The initial on-air and newsroom staff at "FM News 101.1" included several with Chicago radio ties, including Debra Dale and Jennifer O'Neill (both WBBM alumna), Brant Miller and Monica DeSantis (WLS alums), and Ed Curran and Rob Hart (WGN alums). The station's call letters were changed again in December 2011 to WIQI."FM News 101.1" was criticized in its early weeks for what was seen as an amateurish, unpolished, and unprepared presentation. Moreover, Merlin's top management (including Michaels) admitted that the format for both stations were still a work in progress, and "FM News" underwent a continual series of format adjustments. These included: the addition of sports and business updates; the "informal" testing of a news partnership with WMAQ-TV; and the addition of daily commentary segments from Clark Howard and Lionel. Later staff changes and reassignments at the station would lead to an increased reliance on "shared anchor arrangements" with its New York counterpart WEMP, as well as a non-linear, voicetracking-style of arranging reports, sometimes without any anchor transitions. WIQI also began an advertising campaign that included a controversial series of billboards using the face of imprisoned former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich and the "He Never Listens... to FM News 101.1" tagline.By June 2012, WIQI began phasing in blocks of "Expanded News Coverage" where the station entered a programming approach similar to talk radio. Personalities such as Mancow Muller, Neil Steinberg, Kevin Matthews, Mike North and Dan Jiggets and former WGN morning host Greg Jarrett all hosted informal auditions under the "Expanded News Coverage" banner. Jarrett himself was promoted to host morning drive on WIQI during the formats' final three weeks of existence.In spite of constant format tweaks and alterations, the all-news format failed to achieve better than a 0.4 Arbitron ratings share. "FM News" was outperformed by the final ratings book for "Q101" and WKQX-LP, the aural signal of a low-power analog television station operated by Merlin under a local marketing agreement with an alternative rock format dubbed "Q87.7".

i101
At 9 a.m. (CT) on July 17, 2012, with both WIQI and WEMP languishing on the eve of their one-year anniversaries, "FM News" was abruptly dropped on both stations. WIQI flipped to a 1990s-centric adult hits format targeted at females between the ages of 18 and 49, and was branded as "i101". The first song on "i101" was Bye Bye Bye by NSYNC. With a few exceptions, most of the WIQI and WEMP news staffs were immediately dismissed, with subsequent layoffs occurring in the following weeks and months.After one month on the air, "i101" would move towards a hot adult contemporary approach. "i101" included some limited use of on-air staff, including morning host and former WLUP-FM staffer Jane Monzures, who shared morning duties with fellow "Loop" alum Pete McMurray between August and October 2012. In late 2013, the station shifted to a rhythmic adult contemporary format.

101 WKQX
On January 3, 2014, Merlin Media announced a local marketing agreement (LMA) with Cumulus Media that would see Cumulus take over operations of WIQI, WLUP and WKQX-LP. The deal, which includes an option for Cumulus to purchase WIQI and WLUP, resulted in Merlin relinquishing operations of its last remaining radio stations, and also saw an expansion of Cumulus' Chicago cluster, which includes WLS and WLS-FM. Cumulus executives indicated that they, at the time of rebranding, had no intentions of acquiring back the online rendition of "Q101" and related intellectual properties from the stations' 1992-2011 era.In announcing the LMA, Cumulus indicated that it would move the alternative rock format from WKQX-LP onto the 101.1 facility. The move took place on January 10, 2014, when the stations began a transitional simulcast. "Closing Time" by Semisonic was the last song played on "i101", while the first song played on the 101.1/87.7 simulcast was "Times Like These" by Foo Fighters. The simulcast ended February 17, 2014, when Merlin Media's LMA for 87.7 ended and Tribune Broadcasting began a local marketing agreement for the station (which is now WRME-LD). The WKQX call sign was restored on the 101.1 facility on January 17.101 WKQX's airstaff initially included Brian Phillips, Lou Lombardo, Lauren O'Neil, PJ Kling, and "wALT" (Walter Flakus of Stabbing Westward). In September 2015, Portland radio personality Marconi joined WKQX to host weeknights (replacing PJ Kling). Marconi left WKQX in January 2018. Brian Sherman, former on-air personality at Q101 from 2001 to 2011, and one half of the duo Sherman and Tingle, was hired as an on-air personality for weekends. Sherman retained his weekday on air role at suburban classic rocker WFXF. Russell Tanzillo from North Central College's WONC joined as a weekend host in September 2015. In April 2016, the station hired James VanOsdol, another former Q101 personality, to host a new local music showcase titled "Demo 312" (in reference to Chicago's well-known main area code).

In November 2015, WKQX and WLUP announced their move from the Merchandise Mart, where the 101.1 frequency has been broadcast from since first taking the airwaves in 1948, in favor of a new studio at the NBC Tower. Until the new facility was completed, WKQX broadcast from a temporary facility at 190 N. State. On August 4, 2016, the move of WKQX and WLUP to the NBC Tower was finalized.In January 2018, as part of Cumulus Media's bankruptcy proceedings, the company requested that a U.S. Bankruptcy Court release the company from several "extremely unprofitable" contracts, including its LMAs with WLUP and WKQX. Cumulus stated that under the agreement, which carries a monthly fee of $600,000, the company had lost $8.4 million on the two Merlin stations. WLUP was sold by Merlin to the Educational Media Foundation. On April 3, 2018, it was announced that Cumulus would acquire WKQX and the intellectual property of WLUP for $18 million. The sale to Cumulus was consummated on June 15, 2018.

Returning to Q101
On April 18, 2022, Cumulus Media announced their purchase of Q101 Chicago from Broadcast Barter Radio Networks, as well as the Q101.com domain name, all underlying trademarks and related intellectual property that Emmis had divested in 2011. Cumulus Chicago Vice President/Market Manager Marv Nyren revealed to Daily Herald journalist Robert Feder that discussions had been ongoing for over four years to reacquire rights to the "Q101" brand. The internet station ceased operations, while WKQX reverted to "Q101" during the station's "10th anniversary" concert on May 3, 2022 (celebrating the launch of the current iteration of the format over the former WKQX-LP).
Passage 10:
KWPW
KWPW (107.9 FM, "Power 108") is a radio station broadcasting a contemporary hit radio format. Licensed to Robinson, Texas, United States, the station serves the Waco area.  The station is currently owned by Bill McCutcheon.  Its studios are located in Waco, and its transmitter is located in Waco near the VA Hospital.

History
The station began in 1972 as KCIR in Corsicana Texas. The call letters stood for "The Golden 'CIR'cle". It was assigned the call letters KXCL-FM on April 12, 1983.  On February 1, 1985, the station changed its call sign to KAND-FM, matching the AM sister station on 1340. After its purchase by Marcos A. Rodriguez in 1994, the call sign was changed on January 19 to KICI-FM, then again on February 20, 1998 to KDXX-FM. In 2001, KDXX applied for and was granted a move from Corsicana to better serve Waco, Texas. It was relicensed to Robinson, Texas as it is currently. On January 11, 2002 the calls changed to KDOS, on April 30, 2005 to KHCK, and on August 27, 2010 to the current KWPW.

KWPW-HD2
On August 7, 2017, KWPW launched a Spanish CHR format on its HD2 subchannel, branded as "Latino 93.5" (simulcast on FM translator K228FK 93.5 FM Waco).