Passage 1:
Bajura District
Bajura District (Nepali: बाजुरा जिल्ला Listen ), a part of Sudurpashchim Province, is one of the seventy-seven districts of Nepal. The district, with Martadi (today part of Badimalika municipality) as its district headquarters, covers an area of 2,188 km2 (845 sq mi) and had a population of 108,781 in 2001 and 134,912 in 2011.The annual rainfall is about 13,433 mm and temperatures vary from 0 °C to 40 °C. The livelihood of more than 80% of the district population depends on agriculture farming, mainly small scale livestock. Due to low level of agricultural production, the majority of the households face acute food shortages for a large part of the year. According to the National Census 2011, the total population of the district is 134,912 comprising 69,106 female (51%) and 65,806 male (49%) residing in 24,908 households. Bajura district has an average population density of around 62 people per square km. The average family size is 5.4. Life expectancy of the people is 58 years. The average literacy rate is about 32%. Bajura district has a multi ethnic composition with Chhetri, Kami, Thakuri, Brahman, Damai, SarkI and Sanyashi (Giri and Puri). The common language is Nepali (96%) followed by Bhote Sherpa (0.46%) and Tamang (0.42%). Although accessibility to Bajura is very poor, this is improving rapidly. The Government strategy is mainly focused on the connection of VDC headquarters with all-weather motor able roads to SRN or District headquarters. Moreover, the DDC body of Bajura district has given higher priority on rural roads.

Geography and Climate
The district has nine municipalities, 9 Ilakas (administrative areas) and 1 constituency areas. The district is situated in Longitude between 81° 10′ 20″ to 81° 48′ 27″ East and Latitude 29° 16′ 21″ to 29° 56′ 56″ North. Geographically the district is divided in three distinct regions from north to south viz. Higher Himalayan Region, Higher Mountain and mid – Mountains. The Higher Himalayan region comprises Saipal Himalayan range; High Mountain region comprises Doha Lekh and Ghori Lekh. Similarly, Mid-Mountain range comprises different ranges of mountains e.g. Badimalika Temple. The District has started from 300m to 6400m in height.

Demographics
At the time of the 2011 Nepal census, Bajura District had a population of 134,912.
As their first language, 99.2% spoke Nepali, 0.5% Sherpa, 0.1% Tamang and 0.1% other languages.Ethnicity/caste: 57.8% were Chhetri, 9.8% Kami, 7.0% Hill Brahmin, 5.2% Thakuri, 5.0% Sarki, 4.2% Damai/Dholi, 3.9% Lohar, 2.4% Sanyasi/Dasnami, 1.4% Badi, 1.0% Bhote, 0.9% other Dalit, 0.3% Kumal, 0.2% Teli, 0.1% Limbu, 0.1% Magar, 0.1% Mallaha, 0.1% Musalman, 0.1% Tamang, 0.1% other Terai, 0.1% Tharu and 0.2% others.Religion: 98.7% were Hindu, 1.1% Buddhist, 0.1% Christian and 0.1% Muslim,Literacy: 55.4% could read and write, 2.5% could only read and 42.1% could neither read nor write.

Administration
The district consists of nine municipalities, out of which four are urban municipalities and five are rural municipalities. These are as follows:
Badimalika Municipality
Triveni Municipality
Budhiganga Municipality
Budhinanda Municipality
Gaumul Rural Municipality
Jagnnath Rural Municipality
Swamikartik Khapar Rural Municipality
Chhededaha Rural Municipality
Himali Rural Municipality

Former Village Development Committees
Prior to the restructuring of the district, Bajura District consisted of the following Village development committees:

Health care
The small health centres in many VDCs are without Auxiliary Health Workers (AHWs), Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs) and Community Health Workers (CHWs). Primary or normal treatment can be done in the district headquarters and also in Bayalpata Hospital of neighbouring district Accham while people seeking severe cases have to travel a long distance to Kathmandu or other major cities or end up dying because of lack of treatment. Many people still believe in Dhami and Jhakri and do not always seek medical or go to the hospital for treatment. An NGO, PHASE Nepal provides many health care facilities and training programs to six VDCs: Kolti, Wai, Kotila, Pandusain, Rugin and Bandhu. Many people residing in these VDCs have benefited from the program.Currently PHASE Nepal is working on several projects in this district including community health and education, livelihood, hygiene, sanitation and diarrhoea mitigation programmes. PHASE Nepal also conduct education programs like teacher training and girls empowerment programme.

Colleges and School in Bajura
Martadi, Bajura

Bajura Multiple CampusIt has been conditioning the bachelor level programs with affiliation to Tribhuwan University, Kirtipur, Kathmandu, Nepal.

Badimalika English Boarding School
Converse Academy
Shree Malika Higher Secondary SchoolKolti, Bajura 

Shree Jana Prakash Higher Secondary SchoolNaubis, Bajura

Shree Bhanodaya higher Secondary School
Badimalika Multiple CampusIt is conducting the Bachelor's level program BBS, BEd & B.A. with affiliation to Tribhuwan University
Triveni, Bajura

Ratna Higher Secondary School, Seliphal, Bajura.It was established in 2022 BS, it recently started offering +2 level program in Humanities and Education stream.

Masteshwori Higher Secondary School, Pandhara, Bajura.The school is providing plus two level program in Humanities and Education stream.

Tolidewal Danda Secondary School, Toli, Bajura.The school is providing plus two level program in Humanities and Education stream.

Tribhuwaneshwari Secondary School, Chhatara, Bajura.The school is providing plus two level program in Management and Education stream.

Shree Parvati Secondary School, Paima, Bajura
Nateshwori Secondary School, Khripata, Bajura
Damtha Secondary School, Kailashmandu Bajura
Bajura Model Academy, Khirpata Bajura
Bahrabis, Bajura

Shree Trishakti Higher Secondary School, Tallakot, BajuraThe school is providing plus two level education in Management and Education faculty.

Photos of Bajura
Passage 2:
Gap Mountain
Gap Mountain, located in Troy, New Hampshire, United States, is a small monadnock with three summits ranging between 1,820 feet (555 m) and 1,900 feet (579 m) above sea level. The lower north and middle summits are mostly bald and offer panoramic views of the surrounding rural landscape and of the higher and more popular Mount Monadnock. The Metacomet-Monadnock Trail passes over the north and middle peaks. The higher southern summit is wooded with no views. The mountain, located entirely within the Gap Mountain Reservation managed by the Society for the Protection of New Hampshire Forests, is named for the cleft separating the south peak from the north and middle summits.

The mountain is flanked by Mount Monadnock 3 miles (5 km) to the north and Little Monadnock Mountain 4 miles (6 km) to the southwest; the mountain's slopes drain to the east and south into the Millers River, thence into the Connecticut River to Long Island Sound. To the north and west, the slopes drain into the Ashuelot River, thence to the Connecticut River.

History and conservation
Gap Mountain was cleared of timber in the 19th century and used for pasture for nearby dairy farmers. The summit was still open pasture as late as 1950 but has become progressively more wooded since. In the 1960s the mountain was put up for sale and passed hands several times; a housing development and a ski resort were proposed. Local citizens, concerned about the fate of the mountain, formed a coalition and, with the help of the Society for the Protection of New Hampshire Forests, began a twenty-year effort to purchase and conserve Gap Mountain and its environs. Several land donations completed the project, enlarging it to more than 1,100 acres (4.5 km2). The mountain supports a variety of wildflower species unusual to New Hampshire. The north / middle summits of the mountain are still more or less bare and support extensive blueberry heath.  The south summit is entirely wooded and no longer supports extensive views.

Recreation
Hiking and blueberry picking are commonly enjoyed activities on the mountain. The Metacomet-Monadnock Trail, a 114-mile (183 km) trail which stretches from the Massachusetts/Connecticut border to Mount Monadnock, crosses the bald northern and middle summits. Two parking lots provide access to the trail. It is about 1.3 miles (2.1 km) from the south parking lot to the middle summit and about 1.2 miles (1.9 km) from the north parking lot to the north summit. The middle and north summits are about one tenth of a mile apart. The parking lots were constructed and are maintained by the Society for the Protection of New Hampshire Forests.
Passage 3:
Skarstind
Skarstind or Skardstinden is a prominent part of the Galdhøpiggen mountain range in northwestern Jotunheimen, Norway, and is the sixth highest summit in the country. The mountain has three summits, the main summit at 2,373 metres (7,785 ft) above sea level, Nåle (the Needle) at 2,310 metres (7,580 ft) and the small western summit at 2,215 metres (7,267 ft). It is located within the municipality of Lom in Innlandet county. The mountain is located on the eastern side of the Leirdalen valley, and the summit can be seen from the road along the valley floor. There are several other peaks in the vicinity, but only Galdhøpiggen, a few kilometers to the east, is higher. The mountain can be seen from most of the higher peaks in Jotunheimen and Breheimen to the northwest. 
The summit was reached for the first time in 1884 by Severin Wleugel, Sig. Thor, Oskar Kristiansen. The first ascent of the two lower summits remains unknown, but it is probable that they were climbed at the same time.

Location
The mountain sits about 25 kilometres (16 mi) southwest of the village of Fossbergom and about 45 kilometres (28 mi) northeast of the village of Øvre Årdal. The mountain is surrounded by several other notable mountains including Storgrovtinden and Storgrovhøe to the north; Veslpiggen to the northeast; Galdhøpiggen, Keilhaus topp, and Storjuvtinden to the east; Store Tverråtinden and Svellnosbreahesten to the southeast; Bukkehøe and Lindbergtinden to the south; and Loftet to the west.
 
The views, except towards the east, where Galdhøpiggen blocks the view, are among the best in Jotunheimen. To the west, you see the Smørstabbtindene range, the Hurrungane range and the Jostedalsbreen glacier. To the northwest you see the Hestbrepiggane range and to the south you see most of the summits in central Jotunheimen.
The shape of the mountain is extremely characteristic. Only from northwest does it look like a 'tind' a high pointy summit in Norwegian. From the east, from Galdhøpiggen, it shows its steep wall with Nåle balancing on the left flank, as seen in the table. This wall is one of the more inaccessible in Jotunheimen and is climbed rarely. The southwest face is less forbidding, and it is possible to find a way up through the partly snow-covered talus slopes. The mountain, as its neighbors, consists of the hard gabbro rock, which withstands erosion better than most other rocks. The orientation of the layers of gabbro in Skarstind is uncommon. Normally they rise from northwest towards southeast, which is why many summits are easiest to reach from the north side. At Skarstind the layers rise from southwest towards northeast. This is easily seen on the photo in the table.

Access
The summit can be reached without equipment if the conditions are good and there is very little snow on the talus slopes on the southwest face. The normal ascent starts from Leirdalen up to Dummhøe, which is an easy, but rather steep climb of more than 1,000 metres (3,300 ft). Up to approximately 1,500 metres (4,900 ft), there is a path, made by sheep and goats, and used by mountaineers, but from there one has to follow the ridge up to Dummhøe, which is more of a small plain than a mountain. The plain is followed up to the summit of Western Skarstind, but from that small summit you can see the difficult west wall of the main summit.  
There are four small walls to climb, but they may all be outflanked on the right side if the conditions are good. From the Western summit the flank seems nearly as forbidding as the wall itself, but at a close distance it is not too difficult and no equipment should be necessary. However, on poor conditions, the Talus may be very loose and great caution is advised. On days with fresh snow, like the last picture, equipment will probably be necessary on all routes.
Nåle seems to be very difficult, but it is much easier than the summit itself.
Skarstind is quite popular, given the mountain's high rank among Norwegian peaks; on most days during the short summer season peakbaggers climb the mountain, but the summit is hardly ever crowded. A winter ascent is only for the very experienced.

Name
The first element is the genitive of skard which means 'gap' or 'pass'. The last element is the finite form of tind which means 'mountain peak'. Hence the name means mountain pass peak, but it is impossible to say which pass has given its name to the mountain. It might be the pass to the south or it might be the pass between the summit itself and the pinnacle, Nåle. Nåle, which means 'the Needle', got its name from the local word for pinnacle, which describes the shape of it.
Passage 4:
Maple Mountain (Ontario)
Maple Mountain is a mountain, located within Lady Evelyn-Smoothwater Provincial Park, Northeastern Ontario, Canada, estimated 642 m (2,106 ft) above mean sea level. It has a higher vertical rise over the surrounding landscape, 37 m (121 ft) higher than the Ishpatina Ridge, which is the highest point of land in Ontario rising over Scarecrow Lake. Maple Mountain rises over Tupper Lake and is considerably better known than Ishpatina Ridge. It ranks thirteenth, but when ranked by vertical rise it is the highest of the top 25 peaks in Ontario. The 100-ft fire tower is also still intact and attracts many hikers. A 3.2 kilometre long hiking trail leads to the abandoned fire tower.
Located in Timiskaming District of Northeastern Ontario, the mountain is not very accessible; roads and trails in the remote area are difficult to travel in poor weather. The most popular approach routes to Maple Mountain are by canoe and/or float plane.
The indigenous Temagami First Nation call the mountain Chee-bay-jing, meaning "the place where the spirits go" and consider it a sacred site. The English name of the mountain was given by Dr. Robert Bell of the Geological Survey of Canada in 1888. Bell was the first known non-aboriginal to scale the mountain.

See also
Ishpatina Ridge
Temagami Magnetic Anomaly
List of highest points of Canadian provinces and territories

External links
Maple Mountain Myth - The highest point in Ontario
Maple Mountain firetower
Ontario's Highest Elevations
Friends of Temagami
Passage 5:
Tongshanjiabu
Tongshanjiabu is a mountain in the Himalayas.

Location
At 7,207 metres (23,645 ft) tall, Tongshanjiabu is the 103rd tallest mountain in the world. It sits in the disputed border territory between Bhutan and China. The name "Tongshanjiabu" is indicated on a map from the Japanese Alpine News, May 2003, p. 44. The region's highpoint is sometimes given as "Teri Kang", but this appears to be the name of a subsidiary top.

Climbing history
Tongshanjiabu has never been officially climbed.

See also
Mountains of Bhutan
List of Ultras of the Himalayas
Passage 6:
Himalchuli
Himalchuli (also sometimes written as two words, Himal Chuli) is the second-highest mountain in the Mansiri Himal, part of the Nepalese Himalayas, and the 18th-highest mountain in the world (using a cutoff of 500 meters prominence, or re-ascent). It lies south of Manaslu, one of the eight-thousanders. Himalchuli has three main peaks: East (7893 m), West (7540 m) and North (7371 m).

Himalchuli is also notable for its large vertical relief over local terrain. For example, it rises 7,000 meters over the Marsyangdi River to the southwest in about 27 km (17 mi) horizontal distance.

Climbing history
Exploratory visits to the peak were made in 1950 and 1954, and a first attempt in 1955 failed early on. Further reconnaissance and attempts followed in 1958 and 1959.
The first ascent was made on May 24, 1960, by Hisashi Tanabe and Masahiro Harada, of Japan. The route followed the "Sickle Ridge" from the southwest. They first climbed to the saddle between the West and Main peaks, where they placed the last of six camps. This ascent was somewhat unusual for a sub-8000m peak in using bottled oxygen.
The Himalayan Index lists five other ascents of this peak, and 10 additional unsuccessful attempts. The ascents were by various routes on the south, southwest, and southeast sides of the mountain.
The West Peak was first climbed in 1978 by two members of a Japanese expedition to the main peak of Himalchuli. They climbed from the south (the Dordi Khola) and approached the summit of the West Peak from the east.
The North Peak was first climbed in 1985 by a Korean expedition, via the North Face.
Passage 7:
Nanda Devi
Nanda Devi is the second-highest mountain in India, after Kangchenjunga, and the highest located entirely within the country. (Kangchenjunga is on the border of India and Nepal.) Nanda Devi is the 23rd-highest peak in the world.
Nanda Devi was considered the highest mountain in the world before computations in 1808 proved Dhaulagiri to be higher. It was also the highest mountain in India until 1975, when Sikkim, an independent kingdom until 1948 and a protectorate of India thereafter, became a part of the Republic of India. It is located in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, between the Rishiganga valley on the west and the Goriganga valley on the east.
The peak, whose name means "Bliss-Giving Goddess", is regarded as the patron goddess of the Garhwal and Kumaon Himalayas. In acknowledgment of its religious significance and for the protection of its fragile ecosystem, the Government of India declared the peak as well as the circle of high mountains surrounding it—the Nanda Devi sanctuary—off-limits to both locals and climbers in 1983. The surrounding Nanda Devi National Park was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1988.

Description and notable features
Nanda Devi is a two-peaked massif, forming a 2-kilometre-long (1.2 mi) high ridge, oriented east–west. The western summit is higher than the eastern summit, which is called Nanda Devi East, (locally known as Sunanda Devi). The main summit stands guarded by a barrier ring comprising some of the highest mountains in the Indian Himalayas, twelve of which exceed 6,400 metres (21,000 ft) in height, further elevating its sacred status as the daughter of the Himalaya in Indian folklore. The interior of this almost insurmountable ring is known as the Nanda Devi Sanctuary, and is protected as the Nanda Devi National Park. Nanda Devi East lies on the eastern edge of the ring (and of the Park), at the border of Chamoli, Pithoragarh and Bageshwar districts.
Together the peaks may be referred to as the peaks of the goddesses Nanda and Sunanda. These goddesses have occurred together in ancient Sanskrit literature (Srimad Bhagvatam or Bhagavata Purana) and are worshipped together as twins in the Kumaon, Garhwal and elsewhere in India. The first published reference to Nanda Devi East as Sunanda Devi appears to be in a recent novel (Malhotra 2011) that has the Kumaon region as backdrop.
In addition to being the 23rd highest independent peak in the world, Nanda Devi is also notable for its large, steep rise above local terrain. It rises over 3,300 metres (10,800 ft) above its immediate southwestern base on the Dakshini Nanda Devi Glacier in about 4.2 kilometres (2.6 mi), and its rise above the glaciers to the north is similar. This makes it among the steepest peaks in the world at this scale, closely comparable, for example, to the local profile of K2. Nanda Devi is also impressive when considering terrain that is a bit further away, as it is surrounded by relatively deep valleys. For example, it rises over 6,500 metres (21,300 ft) above the valley of the Goriganga in only 50 km (30 mi).On the northern side of the massif lies the Uttari Nanda Devi Glacier, flowing into the Uttari Rishi Glacier. To the southwest, one finds the Dakkhini Nanda Devi Glacier, flowing into the Dakkhini Rishi Glacier. All of these glaciers are located within the Sanctuary, and drain west into the Rishiganga. To the east lies the Pachu Glacier, and to the southeast lie the Nandaghunti and Lawan Glaciers, feeding the Lawan Gad; all of these drain into the Milam Valley. To the south is the Pindari Glacier, draining into the Pindar River. Just to the south of Sunanda Devi, dividing the Lawan Gad drainage from the Dakkhini Nanda Devi Glacier, is Longstaff Col, 5,910 m (19,390 ft), one of the high passes that guard access to the Nanda Devi Sanctuary. For a list of notable peaks of the Sanctuary and its environs, see Nanda Devi National Park.

Exploration and climbing history
The ascent of Nanda Devi necessitated fifty years of arduous exploration in search of a passage into the Sanctuary. The outlet is the Rishi Gorge, a deep, narrow canyon which is very difficult to traverse safely, and is the biggest hindrance to entering the Sanctuary; any other route involves difficult passes, the lowest of which is 5,180 m (16,990 ft). Hugh Ruttledge attempted to reach the peak three times in the 1930s and failed each time. In a letter to The Times he wrote that 'Nanda Devi imposes on her votaries an admission test as yet beyond their skill and endurance', adding that gaining entry to the Nanda Devi Sanctuary alone was more difficult than reaching the North Pole.[1]
In 1934, the British explorers Eric Shipton and H. W. Tilman, with three Sherpa companions, Angtharkay, Pasang and Kusang, finally discovered a way through the Rishi Gorge into the Sanctuary.

When the mountain was later climbed in 1936 by a British-American expedition, it became the highest peak climbed by man until the 1950 ascent of Annapurna, 8,091 metres (26,545 ft). (However, higher non-summit elevations had already been reached by the British on Mount Everest in the 1920s, and it is possible that George Mallory reached Everest's summit in 1924.) It also involved steeper and more sustained terrain than had been previously attempted at such a high altitude. The expedition climbed the south ridge, also known as the Coxcomb Ridge, which leads relatively directly to the main summit. The summit pair were H. W. Tilman and Noel Odell; Charles Houston was to be in place of Tilman, but he contracted severe food poisoning. Noted mountaineer and mountain writer H. Adams Carter was also on the expedition, which was notable for its small scale and lightweight ethic: it included only seven climbers, and used no fixed ropes, nor any Sherpa support above 6,200 m (20,300 ft). Eric Shipton, who was not involved in the climb itself, called it "the finest mountaineering achievement ever performed in the Himalaya."After abortive attempts by Indian expeditions in 1957 and 1961, the second ascent of Nanda Devi was accomplished by an Indian team led by N. Kumar in 1964, following the Coxcomb route.

CIA mission
From 1965 to 1968, attempts were made by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), in co-operation with the Intelligence Bureau (IB), to place a nuclear-powered telemetry relay listening device on the summit of Nanda Devi. This device was designed to intercept telemetry signals from missile test launches conducted in the Xinjiang Province, at a time of relative infancy in China's missile program. The expedition retreated due to dangerous weather conditions, leaving the device near the summit of Nanda Devi. They returned the next spring to search for the device, which ended without success. As a result of this activity by the CIA, the Sanctuary was closed to foreign expeditions throughout much of the 1960s. In 1974 the Sanctuary re-opened.

Subsequent climbs
A difficult new route, the northwest buttress, was climbed by a 13-person team in 1976. Three Americans, John Roskelley, Jim States and Louis Reichardt, summitted on 1 September. The expedition was co-led by Reichardt, H. Adams Carter (who was on the 1936 climb,) and Willi Unsoeld, who climbed the West Ridge of Everest in 1963. Unsoeld's daughter, Nanda Devi Unsoeld, who was named after the peak, died on this expedition. She had been suffering from "diarrhea and flare-up of an inguinal hernia, which had shown up originally on the second day of the approach march", and had been at 7,200 metres (23,600 ft) for nearly five days.In 1980, the Indian Army Corps of Engineers made an unsuccessful attempt.
This was followed in 1981 by another Indian Army expedition of the Parachute Regiment, which attempted both main and eastern peaks simultaneously. The expedition had placed a memorial to Nanda Devi Unsoeld at the high altitude meadow of Sarson Patal prior to the attempt. The successful attempt lost all its summiteers.
In 1993, a 40-member team of the Indian Army from the Corps of Engineers was given special permission. The aim of the expedition was multifold: to carry out an ecological survey, clean up the refuse left behind by previous expeditions, and scale the summit. The team led by Lt Col V.K. Bhatt included a number of wildlife scientists and ecologists from Wildlife Institute of India, Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History, World Wide Fund for Nature and Govind Ballabh Pant Institute for Himalayan Environment and Development amongst others. The expedition carried out a comprehensive ecological survey and removed from the park, by porter and helicopter, over 1,000 kilogrammes of litter. Additionally, five summiteers reached the summit: Amin Naik, Anand Swaroop, G. K. Sharma, Didar Singh and S. P. Bhatt.

Recent history and conservation
After the re-opening of the sanctuary in 1974 to foreign climbers, trekkers and locals, the fragile ecosystem was soon compromised by firewood cutting, littering and grazing. Serious environmental problems were noted as early as 1977, and the sanctuary was closed again in 1983. Currently, Nanda Devi forms the core of the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve (which includes Nanda Devi National Park), declared by the Indian government in 1982. In 1988, Nanda Devi National Park was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site, "of outstanding cultural or natural importance to the common heritage of humankind." The entire sanctuary, and hence the main summit (and interior approaches to the nearby peaks), are off-limits to locals and to climbing expeditions, although a one-time exception was made in 1993 for a 40-member team from the Indian Army Corps of Engineers to check the state of recovery and to remove garbage left by prior expeditions. Sunanda Devi remains open from the east side, leading to the standard south ridge route. After a sustained campaign by the local community as reflected in the Nanda Devi Declaration of 2001, the core zone of the Nanda Devi was opened for limited eco-tourism activity in 2003. In 2006, the campaign invited women trekkers from 4 countries during the inaugural trek inside the National Park. As a follow up, the Campaign for Cultural Survival and Sustainable Livelihoods has now designed an Interpretive Trek to the Nanda Devi National Park. An Interpretation Centre on Bio Cultural Diversity of the Nanda Devi National Park is under development in the village of Lata, the gateway to the Nanda Devi National Park. A maximum number of 500 trekkers are now allowed to enter the core zone until Dharansi between May and October. The trek to Nanda Devi National Park starts from the village of Lata, located 25 kilometres upstream from the town of Joshimath on Niti-Malari highway.

2021 flood
On 7 February 2021 it was reported that a portion of the Nanda Devi glacier broke away, causing the Dhauliganga and the Rishiganga rivers to flood. One dam at the Dhauliganga hydropower project at Reni village was destroyed and another suffered a partial collapse. Initial reports said nine people were dead and 140 missing. Water levels on the Alaknanda also rose.

Gallery
Passage 8:
Sumas Mountain (British Columbia)
Sumas Mountain, also referred to as Canadian Sumas to distinguish it from an identically-named mountain just 10 km (6.2 mi) to the south in U.S. state of Washington across the border, is a mountain in eastern Fraser Lowland, in the Lower Mainland region of the Canadian province of British Columbia.  It sits on the south bank of the Fraser River, west of the smaller Chilliwack Mountain across the Vedder River mouth, and serves as a geographic landmark dividing the Fraser Valley into "Upper" and "Lower" sections. Sumas Peak is an official name for the summit located on the south shore of the Fraser River in the Fraser Valley between Abbotsford and Chilliwack, British Columbia. Elevation 910 m (2,986 ft) above sea level, prominence 875 m (2,871 ft).
The mountain is separated from the Vedder Mountain and the North Cascades by the drained Sumas Lake, now a flatland called Sumas Prairie that is part of the greater floodplain of the Fraser River basin, south of which is a same-named sister mountain (American Sumas) in Washington state's Whatcom County.  West of the mountain is Matsqui Prairie, another floodplain, and north of the Fraser, which lies along the mountain's north flank, are similar floodplains - Nicomen Island and Hatzic Prairie.
The urban area of Abbotsford is located to the mountain's west, and it is home to a number of Abbotsford's suburban areas, notably Clayburn.  In its central portion is the historic community of Straiton, officially named in 1904 for Thomas Bell Straiton who founded a homestead on Sumas Mountain in 1893 and also a store and post office. Its higher eastern reaches tower over Greendale, a community within the City of Chilliwack and is mostly wilderness; the mountain's summit, Sumas Peak, is located in this area, along with Chadsey Lake.
Sumas Mountain Provincial Park is located in the higher, northern reaches of the mountain. Historic industry on the mountain includes livestock and crop farming, logging, and mining, notably brick-clay, which gave rise to the mining community of Clayburn. Farming, gravel mining, and logging continue on the mountain to the present day. Located on the mountain's north foot, adjacent to the Fraser, is a Canadian Forces base naval station.  On its south side is the reserve of the Sumas First Nation.
The mountain protects McDonald Park, a dark-sky preserve, from the light pollution caused by the nearby cities of Abbotsford, Chilliwack, and Mission.

Name
"Sumas" is a Halqemeylem word meaning "a big level opening", referring to the Sumas Prairie area south of the mountain, formerly Sumas Lake.  A common 19th Century spelling of Sumas was "Smess"; Simon Fraser's journal recorded the name as "shemotch".
Passage 9:
Mountain bike orienteering
Mountain bike orienteering (MTB-O or MTBO) is an orienteering endurance racing sport on a mountain bike where navigation is done along trails and tracks. Compared with foot orienteering, competitors usually are not permitted to leave the trail and track network. Navigation tactics are similar to ski-orienteering, where the major focus is route choice while navigating. The main difference compared to ski-orienteering is that navigation is done at a higher pace, because the bike can reach higher speeds. As the biker reaches higher speeds, map reading becomes more challenging.

Equipment
Preferred bike type is a robust mountain bike meant for cross-country cycling, but any type of bike can be used. Depending on terrain type either hard tailed or full suspension mountain bikes are more appropriate. Clipless pedals with a special cycling shoe are mostly used by serious cyclists to enable maximum power output, and to keep feet secure on the pedals. Bicycle helmets are usually a requirement in competitions.

Special equipment
A map holder attached to the handlebar of the bike is an essential piece of equipment in mountain bike orienteering, and most holders allow the map to be rotated. Known brands for map holders are Orifix, Mapdec, Miry, Devotech, Nordenmark, Autopilot and Windchill. Compasses may be used but electronic navigational aids (such as GPS-based watches) are not permitted. Competitors may carry repair tools and spare parts during races.

Map
Maps are usually smaller scale (1:5 000 – 1:30 000) and less detailed than standard orienteering maps. Trails and tracks are marked on mountain bike orienteering maps based on their riding difficulty, with four classifications: easy, slow, difficult and impossible to ride. Also, obstacles that require a dismount are usually marked on the map.

Organization and events
MTB-O is one of four orienteering sports governed by the International Orienteering Federation. The first World Championship event was held in 2002 in Fontainebleau, France. Since 2004 the World Championships have been held annually. European Championships have been held annually since 2006. Mountain bike orienteering is most popular in European countries and Australia.

M17 and W17 (Youth) is for competitors who reach the age of 17, or younger, in the year which the event is held.
M20 and W20 (Junior) is for competitors who reach the age of 20, or younger, in the year which the event is held.
M21 and W21 (Elite) is meant for competitors who reach the age of 21, or older, in the year which the event is held. Any competitor, regardless of their age, can however compete in the elite classes.There are annual World Championships in the elite and junior classes. There are also world championships for masters, which is for competitors aged 35 and up.
There are annual European Championships in elite, junior and youth classes.

Mountain bike orienteerers
The most successful mountain bike orienteerer is Anton Foliforov from Russia, who has taken 31 World Championship and 11 European Championship medals. Other successful mountain bike orienteers are Michaela Gigon, Ruslan Gritsan, Adrian Jackson, Christine Schaffner and Päivi Tommola.
For a full list of all medals taken by mountain bike orienteerers at World- and European Championships, visit MTBO Info

Time-Keeping
In order to keep track of the competitors' riding times, Sportident is typically used. Each rider has a 'card' (chip) on their finger, and they 'punch' the Control point (orienteering) as shown on the image below. The card registers when the punch was made, which can be used for keeping track of riding times and split-times for each control point a rider has punched.
In recent years, time-keeping has become more modern, and mountain bike orienteering events typically use touch-free time-keeping, meaning that competitors can maintain their speed while punching the control points. The competitors can ride past the control points at up to 180 cm range and still punch the controls.
Another time-keeping system is Emit, which works in a similar fashion to Sportident.

Disciplines
In mountain bike orienteering there are 5 main disciplines which can be competed in at the world championships.
Generally, all disciplines have around 25 control points along the way.

Sprint
The sprint is the shortest discipline, with estimated winning-times of 20–25 minutes for M21 and W21 (elite classes), and 16–20 minutes for M20 and W20 (junior classes). Sprints often take place in cities, towns or industrial districts. Competitors race individually, typically starting with 1–2 minute gaps between the competitors. Fastest time to punch all the controls in the right order and cross the finish line wins.

Middle Distance
The middle distance is somewhere between the sprint and long distance. Winning times are 50–55 minutes for M21 and W21, and 40–45 minutes for M20 and W20. Middle distances often take place in forests. Competitors race individually, typically starting with 2 minute gaps between the competitors. Fastest time to punch all the controls in the right order and cross the finish line wins.

Long Distance
The long distance is the longest discipline. Winning times are 105–115 minutes for M21 and W21, and 84–92 minutes for M20 and W20. Long distances often take place in forests. Competitors race individually, typically starting with 3 minute gaps between the competitors. Fastest time to punch all the controls in the right order and cross the finish line wins.

Mass Start
The mass start is known as the most chaotic discipline. Winning times are 75–85 minutes for M21 and W21, and 60–68 minutes for M20 and W20. Mass starts often take place in forests. Competitors all start at the same time, hence the name mass start. In order to keep competitors from just following each other and ensuring they have to orienteer themselves, there are 'forkings' on mass starts. This means that not all competitors have to ride to the control points in the same order. It could for example be 2 loops called A and B where half the competitors do A first and then B, and the other half does B first and then A. All competitors will end up riding the exact same course in the end, but will have to split up during the race. First competitor to punch all controls in the right order and cross the finish line wins.

Relay
The relay is a team-discipline. There are 3 competitors on each team, taking turn to ride their course. Winning times are 120–135 minutes (total) for M21 and W21, and 90–105 minutes for M20 and W20. Relays often take place in forests. The first competitors on all teams start at the same time, similar to the mass start. When they cross the finish line and touch their team's next competitor, the next competitor continues the race. Similarly to the mass start, there are forkings on the relay, so competitors can't just follow other riders. All teams will end up riding the exact same courses in the end, but in different orders. First team to all finish their courses and cross the finish line wins.

Rules
There is a set of rules which must be followed when competing at events. If not followed, it can lead to disqualification. The most prominent rules are:

Competitors may not leave their bike; it has to be ridden, carried or pushed at all times.
Competitors may only ride on paths and roads that are on the map, unless otherwise described. In some countries or areas riders are allowed to ride off-track, which will be specified in the event bulletin.
Competitors may not use GPS devices while competing in a race.For a full list of the rules, see MTBO Competition Rules

Most recent World Championships
The most recent World Championships were in Finland, Kuortane from 9 to 18 June 2021. The winners and World Champions of each discipline were as follows:

Mass StartM21: Samuel Pökälä 

W21: Svetlana Foliforova 

M20: Morten Örnhagen Jørgensen 

W20: Kaarina Nurminen 

Sprint DistanceM21: Krystof Bogar 

W21: Marika Hara 

M20: Mikkel Brunstedt Nørgaard 

W20: Kaarina Nurminen 

Middle DistanceM21: Samuel Pökälä 

W21: Svetlana Foliforova 

M20: Morten Örnhagen Jørgensen 

W20: Kaarina Nurminen 

Long DistanceM21: Andre Haga 

W21: Camilla Søgaard 

M20: Morten Örnhagen Jørgensen 

W20: Lucie Nedomlelova 

RelayM21: Andre Haga, Pekka Niemi, Samuel Pökälä 

W21: Cæcilie Christoffersen, Nikoline Splittorff, Camilla Søgaard 

M20: Noah Tristan Hoffmann, Mikkel Brunstedt Nørgaard, Morten Örnhagen Jørgensen 

W20: Ekaterina Landgraf, Daria Toporova, Alena Aksenova

See also
Alleycat races
Adventure racing
Passage 10:
Avalanche Lake (New York)
Avalanche Lake is a 9-acre (3.6 ha) mountain lake located in the Adirondack High Peaks in New York. Avalanche Lake sits at 2,885 feet (879 m) between 4,714-foot (1,437 m) Mount Colden and 3,816-foot (1,163 m) Avalanche Mountain. The two mountains rise in vertical cliffs from the surface of the lake. Immediately west of Avalanche Mountain (formerly known as Caribou Mountain) lies the MacIntyre Range: 5,115-foot (1,559 m) Algonquin Peak (the second highest mountain in the state), 4,829-foot (1,472 m) Boundary Peak, 4,843-foot (1,476 m) Iroquois Peak and 4,380-foot (1,340 m) Mount Marshall. Mount Marcy is 2.5 miles (4.0 km) to the east. Avalanche Lake feeds Lake Colden to the south, in the Hudson River watershed. To the north, the trail to the lake from the Adirondak Loj surmounts Avalanche Pass, which is only slightly above lake level but separates it from the Lake Champlain (St. Lawrence River) watershed. Following the lake toward Lake Colden, the trail is choked with large boulders, and a number of wooden ladders have been built to make passage possible. There are also three places where the trail takes to wooden catwalks, first built in the 1920s, that are bolted directly into the cliff face. This section is known as the "Hitch-Up Matilda;" in 1868 when a mountain guide waded to carry one of his clients past a point with no footing on shore, her husband urged her to sit higher on his shoulders.

History
The European discovery of the lake dates to an 1833 surveying party led by Judge John Richards and Major Reuben Sanford; it was named by William C. Redfield. A large avalanche occurred on August 20, 1869, that created a number of the landslides on Mount Colden, the rubble from which substantially raised the level of the lake. Another avalanche in 1942 caused further slides that raised the lake level by 10 feet (3.0 m).