Passage 1:
Alberic III of Dammartin
Alberic III of Dammartin (Aubry de Dammartin) (c. 1138 – 19 September 1200) was a French count and son of Alberic II, Count of Dammartin, and Clémence de Bar, daughter of Reginald I, Count of Bar. 
He married Mathilde, heiress to the county of Clermont and daughter of Renaud II, Count of Clermont. They had:

Renaud I, Count of Dammartin (c. 1165–1227), married 1) Marie de Châtillon and 2) Ide de Lorraine with whom he had Matilda II, Countess of Boulogne, Queen of Portugal
Alix de Dammartin (1170–1237), married Jean, Châtelain de Trie
Simon of Dammartin (1180 – 21 September 1239), married Marie, Countess of Ponthieu father of Joan, Countess of Ponthieu, Queen of Castile and Leon.
Julia of Dammartin, married Hugh de Gournay
Agnes of Dammartin, married William de Fiennes

Notes
Passage 2:
Gregory I, Count of Tusculum
Gregory I was the Count of Tusculum sometime between 954 and 1012. Consul et dux 961, vir illustrissimus 980, praefectus navalis 999. He was the son of Alberic II (son of Alberic I of Spoleto and Marozia), and Alda of Vienne (daughter of Hugh, King of Italy and his second wife, Alda (or Hilda)). His half-brother was Pope John XII.
He held the cities of Galeria, Arce, and Preneste and the title count palatine, the palace referred to being that of the Lateran. He was the first to carry the title "Count of Tusculum" and he passed it to all his descendants. They also received the titles of excellentissimus vir' (most excellent man) and apostolic rector of Sant'Andrea, which Gregory received in 980. In 981, Gregory bore the title Romanorum consul, dux et senator: "Consul, duke, and senator of the Romans."
As well as being an intimate and ally of the popes, especially Sylvester II, Gregory also served as praefectus navalis of Holy Roman Emperors Otto I and Otto II. However, on 6 February 1001, he was named "Head of the Republic" by the Romans for leading the revolt against Otto III and expelling the Crescentii. In 1002, the latter returned to power and he had to renounce his title.
His death is attested before the 11 June 1012, when his successor, Theophylact, was elected Pope.

Marriage and issue
By his wife Maria (died 1013) he had three sons and a daughter:

Theophylact, who became Pope Benedict VIII.
Alberic III who succeeded him in Tusculum and in his titles.
Romanus, who became Pope John XIX
Marozia III, who married Thrasimund III of Spoleto. Together, the houses of Tusculum and Spoleto were the dominant secular powers in the central Italian peninsula, the one representative of the imperial power and the other, Gregory's, of papal.


== Sources ==
Passage 3:
Alberic II of Spoleto
Alberic II (912–954) was ruler of Rome from 932 to 954, after deposing his mother Marozia and his stepfather, King Hugh of Italy.
He was of the house of the counts of Tusculum, the son of Marozia by her first husband, Duke Alberic I of Spoleto. His half-brother was Pope John XI. At the wedding of his mother to King Hugh of Italy, Alberic and his new stepfather quarreled violently after Hugh slapped Alberic for clumsiness. Infuriated by this and perhaps motivated by rumors that Hugh intended to have him blinded, Alberic left the festivities and incited a Roman mob to revolt against Hugh. In December 932 Hugh fled the city, Marozia was cast into prison, and Alberic took control of Rome.

Marriage and issue
In 936 Alberic married his stepsister Alda, the daughter of King Hugh of Italy and had one son by her, Count Gregory I of Tusculum. According to Benedict of Soracte, he also had one illegitimate son, Octavianus, by an unknown mistress. On his deathbed Alberic had Roman nobility and clergy swear they would elect Octavianus as pope.

Sources
Williams, George L. (1998). Papal Genealogy: The Families and Descendants of the Popes. McFarland & Company, Inc.
Lexikon des Mittelalters.
Passage 4:
Marozia
Marozia, born Maria and also known as Mariuccia or Mariozza (c. 890 – 937), was a Roman noblewoman who was the alleged mistress of Pope Sergius III and was given the unprecedented titles senatrix ("senatoress") and patricia of Rome by Pope John X.
Edward Gibbon wrote of her that the "influence of two sister prostitutes, Marozia and Theodora was founded on their wealth and beauty, their political and amorous intrigues: the most strenuous of their lovers were rewarded with the Roman tiara, and their reign may have suggested to darker ages the fable of a female pope. The bastard son, two grandsons, two great grandsons, and one great great grandson of Marozia—a rare genealogy—were seated in the Chair of St. Peter." Pope John XIII was her nephew, the offspring of her younger sister Theodora. From this description, the term "pornocracy" has become associated with the effective rule in Rome of Theodora and her daughter Marozia through male surrogates.

Early life
Marozia was born about 890. She was the daughter of the Roman consul Theophylact, Count of Tusculum, and of Theodora, the real power in Rome, whom bishop Liutprand of Cremona characterized as a "shameless whore... [who] exercised power on the Roman citizenry like a man."
At the age of fifteen, Marozia became the mistress of Theophylact's cousin Pope Sergius III, whom she knew when he was bishop of Portus. The two had a son, John (the later Pope John XI). That, at least, is the story found in two contemporary sources, the Liber Pontificalis and the Antapodosis sive Res per Europam gestae (958–62), by Liutprand of Cremona (c. 920–72). But a third contemporary source, the annalist Flodoard (c. 894–966), says John XI was brother of Alberic II, the latter being the offspring of Marozia and her husband Alberic I. Hence John too may have been the son of Marozia and Alberic I.
Marozia married Alberic I, duke of Spoleto, in 909, and their son Alberic II was born in 911 or 912. By the time Alberic I was killed at Orte in 924, the Roman landowners had won complete victory over the traditional bureaucracy represented by the papal curia. Rome was virtually under secular control, the historic nadir of the papacy.

Guy of Tuscany
In order to counter the influence of Pope John X (whom the hostile chronicler Liutprand of Cremona alleges was another of her lovers), Marozia subsequently married his opponent Guy of Tuscany. Together they attacked Rome, arrested Pope John X in the Lateran, and jailed him in the Castel Sant'Angelo. Either Guy had him smothered with a pillow in 928 or he simply died, perhaps from neglect or ill treatment. Marozia seized power in Rome in a coup d'état. The following popes, Leo VI and Stephen VII, were both her puppets. In 931 she managed to impose her twenty-one years old son as pontiff, under the name of John XI.

Hugh of Arles, and death
Guy died in 929, and Marozia negotiated a marriage with his half-brother Hugh of Arles, the King of Italy. While in Rome Hugh quarreled with Marozia's son Alberic II, who organized an uprising during the wedding ceremonies in 932. Hugh escaped, but Marozia was captured.
Marozia died after spending some 5 years in prison. Her descendants remained active in papal politics, starting with Alberic II's son Octavian, who became Pope John XII in 955. Popes Benedict VIII, John XIX, and Benedict IX, and antipope Benedict X of the House of Tusculani, were also descended from Marozia. By Guy of Tuscany she had a daughter named Berta Theodora, who never married.

Family tree
Sources
Chamberlin, E. R. (1969). The Bad Popes. New York: Dial Press. ISBN 9789030041801. OCLC 647415773.
Williams, George (1998). Papal genealogy, the families and descendants of the popes.
di Carpegna Falconieri, Tommaso (2008), Marozia, in Dizionario biografico degli italiani, 70, pp. 681–685


== Footnotes ==
Passage 5:
Renaud I, Count of Dammartin
Renaud de Dammartin (Reginald of Boulogne) (c. 1165 – 1227) was Count of Boulogne from 1190, Count of Dammartin from 1200 to 1214 and Count of Aumale from 1204 to 1214. He was son of Alberic III of Dammartin and Mathilde of Clermont.Brought up at the French court, he was a childhood friend of Philip Augustus. At his father's insistence he fought for the Plantagenets. Received back into Philip's favour, he married Marie de Châtillon, daughter of Guy II de Châtillon and Adèle of Dreux, a royal cousin.
In 1191, Renaud's father, Alberic, kidnapped and had Renaud marry Ida, Countess of Boulogne. The County of Boulogne thereby became vassal to the French king, rather than the count of Flanders. While this marriage made Renaud a power, it also made enemies in the Dreux family and that of the count of Guînes, who had been betrothed to Ida.
In 1203, Renaud and his wife gave a merchant's charter to Boulogne. This was probably made for financial consideration. Philip made Renaud Count of Aumale the following year, but Renaud began to detach himself. Following the acquisition of Normandy in April 1204, King Philip granted Renaud the county of Mortain and the honor of Warenne which was centered on the fortresses of Mortemer and Bellencombre.  Both Mortain and Warenne had been held by William I of Boulogne and it would appear that King Philip recognized the Boulogne claim to them.
In 1211, he refused to appear before Philip in a legal matter, a suit with Philippe de Dreux, bishop of Beauvais. Philip II seized his lands and on 4 May 1212 at Lambeth, Dammartin made an agreement with King John who had also lost possessions to Philip. Renaud brought other continental nobles, including the Count of Flanders, into a coalition with John against Philip. In return he was given several fiefs in England and an annuity. Each promised not to make a separate peace with France.With the Emperor Otto IV and Ferdinand of Flanders, he took part in the attack on France in 1214 culminating in the Battle of Bouvines. Commanding the Brabançons, he was on the losing side, but was one of the last to surrender, and refused submission to Philip Augustus. His lands were taken away, and given to Philip Hurepel. Renaud was kept imprisoned at Péronne for the rest of his life, which ended in suicide.  His daughter Matilda II was married to Philip Hurepel.
Passage 6:
Alberic II, Count of Dammartin
Alberic II (died 1183) was the Count of Dammartin, possibly the son of Aubry de Mello, Count of Dammartin, and Adela, daughter of Hugh I, Count of Dammartin.What little is known for sure about Alberic II is confounded by the preponderance of noblemen of the same name in both France and England. What is known is that he married Clémence of Bar, daughter of Reginald I "One-Eyed", Count of Bar, one of the leaders of the Second Crusade, and Gisèle de Vaudémont, daughter of Gerard I, Count of Vaudémont.
Alberic and Clémence had one son:

Alberic III, Count of Dammartin.Alberic II was succeeded by his son Alberic III as Count of Dammartin upon his death.
The discussion in Aubry, Count of Dammartin, provides some insight into how Alberic III came to claim the countship. Further complicating the genealogy, Clémence, widowed, married Renaud II, Count of Clermont-en-Beauvaisis, her second husband and his second wife. Renaud and his first wife, Adelaide, Countess of Vermandois, were the parents of Mathilde, wife of Alberic III.

Sources
Mathieu, J. N., Recherches sur les premiers Comtes de Dammartin, Mémoires publiés par la Fédération des sociétés historiques et archéologiques de Paris et de l'Ile-de-France, 1996
Passage 7:
Alberik II
Alberic II was a bishop of Utrecht from 838 to 844.
Alberic was the brother of his predecessor Frederick of Utrecht. Nothing is known about his administration. He was buried in the Saint Salvatorchurch in Utrecht.
Passage 8:
Pope Agapetus II
Pope Agapetus II (died 8 November 955) was the bishop of Rome and ruler of the Papal States from 10 May 946 to his death. A nominee of the princeps of Rome, Alberic II of Spoleto, his pontificate occurred during the period known as the Saeculum obscurum.

Pontificate
Agapetus was born to a Roman father (a descendant of Consul Anicius Faustus Albinus Basilius) and a Greek mother. He was elected pope on 10 May 946 after the death of Marinus II. The existence of an independent republic of Rome, ruled by Alberic II of Spoleto, meant that Agapetus was prevented from exercising any temporal or secular power in Rome and the Papal States. The struggle between Berengar II and Otto I for the Kingdom of Italy allowed Alberic to exercise complete control over Rome and Agapetus, meaning the pope was largely limited to managing internal church affairs. Even Agapetus’ invitation to Otto to intervene in Italian affairs in 951 was done at the instigation of Alberic, who was growing concerned at Berengar's growing power. However, when Otto's envoys, the bishops of Mainz and Chur, were sent to the pope to discuss Otto's reception in Rome and other more important questions, they were turned away by Alberic.Agapetus was forced to intervene in the dispute over the occupancy of the See of Reims. He ordered a synod to be held at Ingelheim in June 948 to resolve the rights of the rival claimants, Hugh of Vermandois and Artald of Reims. He sent his legate Marinus of Bomarzo to act on his behalf, while Agapetus wrote to a number of bishops, asking them to be present at the council. Through his legate the pope indicated his support for King Louis IV of France, and gave his support for reinstalling Artald as bishop of Reims. This council was followed up by another one at Trier, where Agapetus was again represented by Marinus of Bomarzo. In 949, Agapetus held a synod in Rome, which confirmed the rulings of the two councils. It condemned the former bishop Hugh and it excommunicated his father, Count Herbert II of Vermandois, for his opposition to King Louis IV.After receiving requests from both Louis IV of France and Otto I of Germany, Agapetus granted privileges to monasteries and nunneries within their respective kingdoms. He also was sympathetic towards Otto's plans to restructure the bishoprics within Germany, which were eventually aborted due to pressure exerted by William of Mainz. Around 948, Agapetus, granted the Archbishop of Hamburg the right of consecrating bishops in Denmark and other northern European countries instead of the pope. The pope was also allegedly asked by a Danish king named Frode, now considered legendary, to send missionaries to his kingdom.Agapetus was also asked to intervene in a dispute between Herhold, archbishop of Salzburg and Gerard, bishop of Lauriacum, who both claimed the title of metropolitan of all Pannonia. Agapetus dispatched a letter to the two claimants, in which he stated that the diocese of Lauriacum had been the metropolitan church of all Pannonia before the invasion of the Huns. However, following the ravages inflicted by them, the metropolitan had transferred his see to another city, and since that time Salzburg had been raised to an archbishopric. Consequently, both lawfully occupied their respective sees, and both were to retain their rank and diocese. Agapetus ruled that jurisdiction over western Pannonia would rest with Herhold, while the eastern part, along with the regions occupied by the Avars and the Moravians, would fall under Gerard.In Italy, Agapetus wrote to the dukes of Beneventum and Capua, demanding that monasteries be returned to the monks whom they had displaced. He also deposed the bishops of Termoli and Trivento who were accused of simony. Hoping to rejuvenate the religious life of the clerics in Italy, Agapetus, with the blessing of Alberic, asked for the abbot of Gorze Abbey to send some of his monks down and join the monastic community attached to the church of Saint Paul Outside the Walls.Agapetus died on 8 November 955, and was succeeded by Alberic's son, Octavian, who took the papal name of John XII. He was buried in the Lateran basilica, behind the apse, and close to the tombs of Leo V and Paschal II. Agapetus was noted for his caution and for the sanctity with which he led his life.
Passage 9:
Pope Leo VII
Pope Leo VII (Latin: Leo VII; died 13 July 939) was the bishop of Rome and nominal ruler of the Papal States from 3 January 936 to his death.

Election
Leo VII's election to the papacy in 936, after the death of Pope John XI, was secured by Alberic II of Spoleto, the ruler of Rome at the time. Alberic wanted to choose the pope so that the papacy would continue to yield to his authority. Leo was the priest of the church of San Sisto Vecchio in Rome, thought to be a Benedictine monk. He had little ambition towards the papacy, but consented under pressure.

Pontificate
As pope, Leo VII reigned for only three years. Most of his bulls were grants of privilege to monasteries, especially including the Abbey of Cluny. Leo called for Odo of Cluny to mediate between Alberic and King Hugh of Italy. Odo was successful in negotiating a truce after arranging a marriage between Hugh's daughter Alda and Alberic. Leo VII also appointed Archbishop Frederick of Mainz as a reformer in Germany. Leo allowed Frederick to drive out Jews that refused to be baptized, but he did not endorse the forced baptism of Jews.Leo VII died on 13 July 939, and was interred at St. Peter's Basilica. He was succeeded by Stephen VIII.
Passage 10:
Simon, Count of Ponthieu
Simon of Dammartin (1180 – 21 September 1239) was a son of Alberic III of Dammartin (Aubry de Dammartin) and his wife Mathildis of Clermont,  heiress to the county of Clermont and daughter of Renaud II, Count of Clermont.

Biography
Simon was the brother of Renaud I, Count of Dammartin, who had abducted the heiress of Boulogne, and forced her to marry him. It is thought that in order to strengthen the alliance with the Dammartins, King Philip Augustus of France allowed Simon to marry Marie, Countess of Ponthieu, who was a niece of the king, in 1208. Renaud and Simon of Dammartin would eventually ally themselves with John, King of England. In 1214 the brothers stood against Philip Augustus in the Battle of Bouvines. The French won the battle, and Renaud was imprisoned, while Simon was exiled.
Marie's father William IV, Count of Ponthieu had remained loyal to Philip Augustus. When William died in 1221, Philip Augustus denied Marie her inheritance and gave Ponthieu in custody to his cousin Robert III, Count of Dreux. After the death of Philip Augustus, Marie was able to negotiate an agreement with his successor Louis VIII in 1225. Ponthieu was held by the king, and Simon would only be allowed to enter this or any other fief if he obtained royal permission. In 1231 Simon agreed to the terms and added that he would not enter into marriage negotiations for his daughters without consent of the king.

Family
Simon married Marie, Countess of Ponthieu, the daughter of  William IV, Count of Ponthieu and Alys, Countess of the Vexin. Marie became Countess of Ponthieu in 1225.Simon and his wife Marie had four daughters:

Joan, Countess of Ponthieu (1220–1278), married 1) Ferdinand III of Castile. Mother of Eleanor of Castile, the wife of Edward I of England. Married 2) Jean de Nesle, Seigneur de Falvy et de La Hérelle.
Mathilda of Dammartin (-1279), married John of Châtellerault
Philippe of Dammartin (-1280), married 1) Raoul II of Lusignan, 2) Raoul II, Lord of Coucy, 3) Otto II, Count of Guelders.
Maria of Dammartin, married John II, Count of Roucy.