Passage 1:
6th National Hockey League All-Star Game
The 6th National Hockey League All-Star Game took place at the Detroit Olympia, home of the Detroit Red Wings, on October 5, 1952. For the second year in a row, the format had the first and second All-Star teams, with additional players on each team, play each other. After the game ended in a tie for the second year in a row, the NHL decided that they would continue with the previous format of the Stanley Cup winner playing an all-star team.

The game
Game summary
Referee: Bill Chadwick
Linesmen: George Young, Doug Young

Rosters
Notes

Citations
Passage 2:
63rd National Hockey League All-Star Game
The 2018 National Hockey League All-Star Game took place at Amalie Arena in  Tampa, home of the Tampa Bay Lightning on January 28, 2018. Tampa last held the NHL All-Star Game in 1999. The All-Star Game was played in lieu of NHL participation in the 2018 Winter Olympics, as the NHL Board of Governors ruled against interrupting the season to send players to Pyeongchang from February 10 to 25.The Pacific All-Stars won the All-Star Game, which was in its third straight year of a four-team, 3-on-3, single elimination format, with one team representing each of the league's four divisions. Rookie Brock Boeser of the Vancouver Canucks was named the Most Valuable Player, scoring two goals with an assist. He became the first rookie to win MVP since Mario Lemieux in 1985.

Format
The 2018 All-Star Game again used the 3-on-3 tournament format successfully introduced in 2016, in which teams representing each of the NHL's four divisions (the Atlantic, Metropolitan, Central, and Pacific) played a single-elimination tournament, with each game consisting of two 10-minute halves played 3-on-3 and going directly to a shootout if tied after 20 minutes.In keeping with the four-team format, four separate uniforms were unveiled on January 3, one for each division.  As with the previous year, the jerseys are meant to be of high contrast against one another to avoid confusion regardless of which teams face off.  The primary colors of each jersey mirror the colors used by the event's host, the Lightning, with the Pacific division in white, the Central in black, the Atlantic in blue, and the Metropolitan in gray.  Accent colors of "solar red" (on the Western Conference uniforms) and "UV yellow" (on the Eastern Conference uniforms) are meant to evoke the "warm, vibrant sunset tones and the energy of the Tampa Bay area."  The custom-designed number font also includes a pattern based on the suspension cables of the nearby Sunshine Skyway Bridge.  The uniforms also see a nod to classic 1980s All-Star uniforms in the inclusion of stars on the sleeves, one for each division.

Skills Competition
The NHL All-Star Skills Competition took place the day before the All-Star Game on January 27, 2018, at Amalie Arena. Event winners were awarded a $25,000 prize, with new events the passing challenge and goalie save streak added to the competition. The winners were:

Fastest Skater – Connor McDavid, Edmonton Oilers, 13.454 seconds
Puck Control Relay – Johnny Gaudreau, Calgary Flames, 24.650 seconds
Passing Challenge – Alex Pietrangelo, St. Louis Blues, 46.610 seconds
Save Streak – Marc-Andre Fleury, Vegas Golden Knights, 14 saves
Hardest Shot – Alexander Ovechkin, Washington Capitals, 101.3 mph
Accuracy Shooting – Brock Boeser, Vancouver Canucks, 11.136 seconds

Rosters
As in the previous two All-Star Games, captaincy of each division was determined by a fan vote, running from December 2, 2017 until January 1, 2018.  On January 3, 2018, after a month of fan voting, the four captains were announced by the NHL. Steven Stamkos of the hosting Lightning was selected captain for the Atlantic Division. Alexander Ovechkin of the Washington Capitals was selected for the Metropolitan Division.  P. K. Subban of the Nashville Predators and Connor McDavid of the Edmonton Oilers were selected to captain the Central and Pacific Divisions, respectively, for the second consecutive year.On January 7, Jon Cooper of the Lightning was named head coach of the Atlantic Division Team.  Joining him as coaches are Peter Laviolette of the Predators (Central), Barry Trotz of the Capitals (Metropolitan), and Gerard Gallant of the Golden Knights (Pacific).  Coaches are chosen from the team in each division with the highest points percentage through January 6, the season's halfway point: the Lightning sat at 0.744 with 61 points as the top team in the NHL, trailed by the Golden Knights at 0.725 with 58 points. The Predators, with a 0.659 percentage and 54 points, were ranked fourth while the Capitals, sitting at a 0.646 percentage for 53 points, ranked sixth overall.Full team rosters were announced on January 10, 2018. Brock Boeser, the Vancouver Canucks' first-round draft pick in 2015, was the sole rookie selected to appear in the 2018 All-Star Game. As of January 10, he led all rookies in goals and points with 22 and 40 respectively through 40 games, placing him fifth overall in goal scoring in the entire NHL.Under a week prior to the game, Jonathan Quick of the Los Angeles Kings elected to not accept his invitation. As a consequence, he was suspended for one regular season game. Mike Smith of the Flames replaced Quick and joined Marc-Andre Fleury as the goalies for the Pacific Division. As well, Taylor Hall of the New Jersey Devils was injured and replaced by Brian Boyle in the Metropolitan Division.

Uniforms
As with the previous game, the NHL used four uniquely-colored jerseys for each of the four division teams. As this was the first game with Adidas as the uniform supplier, the uniforms all featured Adidas' trademark three stripes down the sides of the jerseys, underneath the arms. The colors for each division were: blue with yellow trim, with blue pants, for the Atlantic; gray with yellow trim and black pants for the Metropolitan; black with reddish-orange trim and black pants for the Central; and white with reddish-orange trim and white pants for the Pacific. White pants had previously only been worn in the NHL by the 1974–75 Washington Capitals for a few games, and the Los Angeles Kings for the 2015 NHL Stadium Series game. The numbers on the back of the jerseys featured a pattern based on the Sunshine Skyway Bridge.

Bracket
Game summaries
First semifinal game
Second semifinal game
Final
Festivities and entertainment
All-Star celebrations began on January 26 with the 2018 NHL All-Star pregame near the arena.  Events included an opportunity to meet NHL mascots, participate in skills challenges in the NHL All-Star Skills Zone, view the NHL's various trophies, including the Stanley Cup, and meet past and present NHL players for autographs.  The pregame was a recurring event open all of All-Star Weekend.All-Star Friday Night included the Enterprise NHL All-Star Friday Night concert at Curtis Hixon Park headlined by Fitz and the Tantrums.The 2018 Gasparilla Pirate Festival and the Gasparilla Parade of the Pirates took place nearby on January 27, prior to the All-Star Skills Competition at Amalie Arena.  Former Lightning center Vincent Lecavalier was named the grand marshal for the parade, and regarded as a "perfect choice" by Christopher Lykes, the Captain of Ye Mystic Krewe of Gasparilla, who have hosted the parade annually since 1904.  According to Lykes, "Vinny was a force with the Lightning and a force as an NHL All-Star. He has continued his leadership by being an active and positive role model in our community."The All-Star Red Carpet began prior to the All-Star Game at 1:00 pm on January 28, with further opportunities for fans to interact with the players as they enter the arena.  Kid Rock performed during the second intermission, prior to the start of the championship game. News of his performance was announced during NBCSN's pregame coverage for the January 16 Flyers-Rangers game.  The announcement was received with mixed opinions, due to a combination of factors including the length of time since his last major musical hit and his political stances.Lindsay Ell sang the Canadian national anthem while Brett Young sang the American national anthem.

Television
The All-Star Game and skills competition were broadcast in the United States by NBC and NBCSN, respectively. This marked the second consecutive season that the All-Star Game was broadcast on American broadcast network television: the year before, it returned to NBC and network television at large for the first time since 2004. In Canada, both the All-Star Game and skills competition were broadcast on both CBC and Sportsnet, and on TVA Sports in French.
Passage 3:
53rd National Hockey League All-Star Game
The 2003 National Hockey League All-Star Game took place on February 2, 2003 at Office Depot Center in Sunrise, the home of the Florida Panthers. It was the first All-Star Game since the 1997 All-Star Game to use the Eastern Conference–Western Conference format.

All-Star weekend
NHL YoungStars Game
The All-Star festivities began on February 1 with the YoungStars Game, pitting the best rookies on League rosters against each other. Months ago, it was decided that the assistant coaches of the team with the best points percentages in their respective conferences through the games of Wednesday, January 8, were selected as coaches for the Eastern Conference and Western Conference YoungStars, respectively.  The YoungStars players were selected by the NHL's Hockey Operations Department, in consultation with League general managers.
The game's format changed from the previous season as it will be played using five skaters and one goaltender per team.  The duration of the game will consist of three 20-minute periods, running time with three-minute stops after goals with a 20-minute break between periods.  If the score is tied after three periods, a sudden-death shootout will determine the winner.
The Washington Capitals' Brian Sutherby won the Most Valuable Player for the Eastern Conference YoungStars by scoring two goals and an assist as the East cruised to an easy 8–3 victory. Hometown favourite Stephen Weiss also scored a goal and an assist for the East to thrill the Panthers fans in attendance.

Super Skills Competition
A traditional event followed the YoungStars game, with the NHL Skills Competition. The Western Conference won the competition 15–9, made memorable by hard-shooting defenseman Al MacInnis of the St. Louis Blues winning his seventh Hardest Shot event, and Colorado Avalanche's Patrick Roy allowed only a single goal through both of the Goaltending Competitions.

Individual Event winners
Puck Control Relay – Martin St. Louis (Tampa Bay Lightning)
Fastest Skater – Marian Gaborik (Minnesota Wild) - 13.713 seconds
Accuracy Shooting – Jeremy Roenick (Philadelphia Flyers) - 4 hits, 4 shots
Hardest Shot – Al MacInnis (St. Louis Blues)  - 98.9 mph (159.2 km/h)
Goaltenders Competition – Patrick Roy (Colorado Avalanche) - 1 GA, 9 shots

The game
On Sunday, February 2, the actual All-Star Game began. The Eastern Conference was forced to name five injury replacements to their roster, as Ed Belfour, Brian Leetch, Mario Lemieux, Saku Koivu and Mats Sundin were all out with injury. The Atlanta Thrashers' Dany Heatley opened the scoring for the Eastern Conference by scoring past Colorado Avalanche's Patrick Roy just five and a half minutes into the first period.
Colorado's Peter Forsberg and Dallas Stars' Mike Modano scored the next two goals to give the Western Conference a 2–1 lead. However, Heatley would score his second consecutive goal on Roy, tapping in a rebound of a shot by Washington Capitals' Jaromir Jagr to tie the score at 2, a bit more than halfway through the first period. Five minutes later, Minnesota Wild's Marian Gaborik scored by banging in Los Angeles Kings' Mathieu Schneider's rebound past Tampa Bay Lightning's Nikolai Khabibulin to restore the Western lead at 3–2, which remained at the end of the first period. Goaltenders Roy and Khabibulin would then be replaced by Chicago Blackhawks' Jocelyn Thibault and New Jersey Devils' Martin Brodeur for the West and the East, respectively.
The change of goaltenders made little difference for Heatley, as he finished his hat trick with a wrist shot past Thibault to tie the game at 3. For the third consecutive time, the West replied when Vancouver Canucks' Ed Jovanovski caught a deflection off the skate of Washington Capitals' Sergei Gonchar. Heatley then scored his fourth goal of the game by converting a pass from hometown hero Florida Panthers' Olli Jokinen and shooting it over Thibault's glove. Heatley's four goals in an All-Star game tied the previous records of Wayne Gretzky, Mario Lemieux, Vincent Damphousse and Mike Gartner and became the first player in All-Star history to score four goals with no one else scoring in between them.
No more goals were scored in the second period, and Ottawa Senators' Patrick Lalime came in to play goal for the Eastern Conference, while Dallas Stars' Marty Turco came in for the West. St. Louis Blues' Al MacInnis scored past Lalime's glove to give the West a 5–4 lead, a minute and a half into the third period.
Jokinen tied the game by taking a pass from Jaromir Jagr and skating in on a partial breakaway and putting a hard wrist shot past Turco to tie the game at 5. With ten minutes left in regulation, neither team were able to score on the two goaltender. The third period ended in a 5–5 tie and the winner of the 53rd NHL All-Star Game would have to be decided in overtime for the first time since 1988.
Patrick Lalime and Marty Turco remained in goal for the overtime, and preserved a scoreless extra period. For the first time in history, an NHL All-Star Game would be settled in a shootout. The Vancouver Canucks' Markus Naslund, Dallas Stars' Bill Guerin and the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim's Paul Kariya would score against Lalime for the Western Conference. On the other side, Turco only let in one goal in the shootout, which was scored by Dany Heatley. (Heatley's shootout goal did not count towards his regulation total of four, leaving him tied for the record.) The Western Conference won the game with a 6–5 shootout victory. Heatley, with a total of five points, was named All-Star MVP.

Uniforms
The NHL carried over the uniform design from the previous All-Star Game. Since the uniforms introduced the year before used the colors of the conference logos, the Western Conference used the same blue jersey worn by the 2002 North American team. However, due to the contrast issues from the 2002 game, the burgundy jersey worn by the World team was replaced with a white version worn by the Eastern Conference team. Both uniforms continued to feature black as the primary trim color, with silver and white accents. The player names and numbers on the back of the Western team's uniforms were rendered in black, however, leaving the uniforms completely devoid of the conference's burgundy color. Both teams continued to wear flag patches representing each player's homeland on the left shoulder. This would be the last use of national flags on the All-Star uniforms to date.

Summary
Referees: Dennis LaRue, Dan O'Halloran
Linesmen: Jean Morin, Tim Nowak
Television: ABC, CBC, SRC

National Anthems
Canadian country singer Paul Brandt sang the Canadian national anthem while Cuban-American singer and Florida native Jorge Moreno sang the American national anthem.

Rosters
Notes

See also
2002–03 NHL season
Passage 4:
47th National Hockey League All-Star Game
The 1997 National Hockey League All-Star Game took place on January 18, 1997, at San Jose Arena in San Jose, home of the San Jose Sharks. The final score was Eastern Conference 11, Western Conference 7.  This game was originally scheduled for the 1994–95 season, but was cancelled due to the 1994–95 NHL lockout.

Super Skills Competition
The Eastern Conference won the skills competition for the first time since 1992. St. Louis Blues' Al MacInnis won the Hardest Shot event for the third time in his career by slapping the puck at 98.9 mph. Boston Bruins' defenceman Ray Bourque won the Shooting Accuracy event for the fourth time, hitting four targets in seven shots. Florida Panthers' goaltender John Vanbiesbrouck stopped all 10 shots by Mats Sundin and Derian Hatcher in Rapid-Fire Relay to outduel Colorado Avalanche netminder Patrick Roy who made nine saves.  In the Power-Play Relay, Vanbiesbrouck allowed only two of six shots to elude him that were taken by Mighty Ducks of Anaheims' Teemu Selanne and Paul Kariya to claim the Goaltenders Competition.

Individual Event winners
Puck Control Relay - Geoff Sanderson (Hartford Whalers)
Fastest Skater - Peter Bondra, (Washington Capitals) - 13.610 seconds
Accuracy Shooting - Ray Bourque, (Boston Bruins) - 4 hits, 7 shots
Hardest Shot - Al MacInnis, (St. Louis Blues) - 98.9 mph
Goaltenders Competition - John Vanbiesbrouck, (Florida Panthers) - 2 GA, 16 shots

The Game
Montreal Canadiens' right-winger Mark Recchi had a hat-trick to lead the Eastern Conference to an 11–7 victory and to be named All-Star M.V.P.  Mark Recchi would become the fourth Montreal Canadien to receive the award.  A record 10 goals was scored in the second period, including two from hometown favorite San Jose Sharks' right-winger Owen Nolan in a record eight seconds.  Nolan would complete his hat-trick in the third period as he closed in on a breakaway towards Buffalo Sabres' goaltender Dominik Hasek. Nolan pointed to the top left corner and then fired a shot right off the bar top corner. Gary Thorne called it saying, "here come the chapeaus!". The crowd erupted, throwing hats everywhere.

Boxscore
Referee: Rob Shick
Linesmen: Ron Asselstine, Bob Hodges, Leon Stickle
Television: FOX, CBC, SRC

See also
1996–97 NHL season

Notes
Passage 5:
52nd National Hockey League All-Star Game
The 2002 National Hockey League All-Star Game took place on February 2, 2002, at the Staples Center in Los Angeles. The final score was World 8, North America 5.  This was the last NHL All-Star Game to have the North America vs. World All-Star format. It was also the last All-Star Game that was held in the same year as the Winter Olympics until the 2018 edition.

All-Star weekend
NHL YoungStars Game
The inaugural NHL YoungStars Game was played (replacing Heroes of Hockey old-timers game) featuring the future young stars of the NHL.  The two teams were divided between Team Melrose and Team Fox. The game format had four skaters (and one goaltender) per side and the first two periods were for 12 minutes running time, and then the third period would run for 11 minutes, running time, plus a final minute of stop time. The teams were allowed a four-minute break between periods. If the score is tied after three periods, a sudden-murder shootout will determine the winner.  Team Melrose would defeat Team Fox by a score of 13–7, as Atlanta Thrashers' Ilya Kovalchuk would score six goals for Team Melrose, with one of them being on a penalty shot.  Kovalchuk was named as the first-ever YoungStars MVP.

Super Skills Competition
The World All-Stars would win their fourth and last skills competition barely defeating the North American All-Stars by a score of 12–11.  In the individual events, Mighty Ducks of Anaheim' Paul Kariya would win his fourth-straight Puck Control Relay event, while Carolina Hurricanes' Sami Kapanen would win his second Fastest Skater event and Detroit Red Wings' Sergei Fedorov would win his first Hardest Shot event.  Two individual events would be shared as Calgary Flames' Jarome Iginla and Vancouver Canucks' Markus Naslund would share the Accuracy Shooting event title and Colorado Avalanche's Patrick Roy and Detroit Red Wings' Dominik Hasek would win the Goaltenders Competition after the Pass and Score and Breakaway Relay events.

Individual event winners
Puck Control Relay – Paul Kariya (Mighty Ducks of Anaheim)
Fastest Skater – Sami Kapanen (Carolina Hurricanes) - 14.039 seconds
Accuracy Shooting – Jarome Iginla (Calgary Flames)/Markus Naslund (Vancouver Canucks) - 4 hits, 6 shots
Hardest Shot – Sergei Fedorov (Detroit Red Wings)  - 101.5 mph
Goaltenders Competition – Patrick Roy (Colorado Avalanche)/Dominik Hasek (Detroit Red Wings) - 1 GA, 9 shots

The game
The 52nd NHL All-Star Game was highlighted by Pittsburgh Penguins' Mario Lemieux's 13th career goal which tied Wayne Gretzky for the most goals scored in All-Star Game competition, Tampa Bay Lightning goalie Nikolai Khabibulin's flawless third period and a flawed MVP selection process.  Three players would put up three-point performances that included North American All-Stars Chicago Blackhawks' leftwinger Eric Daze (2–1–3) and San Jose Sharks' centre Vincent Damphousse (1–2–3), while Vancouver Canucks' left winger Markus Naslund (2–1–3) would be the only player for the World All-Stars to score three points.  The World All-Stars rallied for 5 goals in the third period and a comeback win. Daze who was appearing in his first All-Star Game, was chosen as All-Star MVP, becoming the first Blackhawk player to win the award since 1971 when Bobby Hull won the award. A minor controversy ensued over the MVP selection, as World All-Stars goalie Khabibulin recorded a third period shutout that allowed his team to storm back from 5-3 down. Apparently voting was conducted with about 5 minutes remaining in the game while the North American All-Stars still held the lead. Afterwards the talk in both locker rooms was about the Russian goaltender's play, what it might mean for the upcoming Olympics in two weeks and their disappointment that his 20 save performance didn't win him an honor, which many of them thought was both deserved and obvious.

Uniforms
Continuing from the previous two All-Star Games, the NHL continued to use a color-vs.color format. The North American team's jersey was the same shade of blue as the logo of the Eastern Conference, the same shade of blue previously used by the World team in 1998 and 1999; the jersey also featured the first tie-down collar in the All-Star Game since 1970. The World team used the Western Conference's burgundy color, and a unique horizontal-cut collar. Both uniforms featured predominantly black trim with silver and white accents, and a scooped hemline that would become prevalent with the Reebok Edge and Adidas ADIZERO uniform systems. Although the game was hosted by the Kings, the name and number fonts used on the All-Star jerseys were similar to those used by the Nashville Predators.
Due to complaints about the uniforms being too dark and lacking sufficient contrast to each other, the NHL would replace the burgundy jersey with a white one in the next year's game.

Summary
Referees: Dave Jackson, Don Van Massenhoven
Linesmen: Andy McElman, Mark Pare
Television: ABC, CBC, SRC

Rosters
Notes
1.^ Eric Lindros was selected, but was unable to play due to injury. Mike York was selected as his replacement.
2.^ Brian Rafalski was selected, but was unable to play due to injury. Chris Chelios was selected as his replacement.
3.^ Jere Lehtinen was selected, but was unable to play due to injury. Espen Knutsen was named as his replacement.
Passage 6:
NBL Canada All-Star Game
The NBL Canada All-Star Game was an exhibition game hosted by the National Basketball League of Canada (NBL). The first edition was held in 2012 and included ten players per team, randomly divided under captains Joey Haywood and Eddie Smith. In the final two editions in 2013 and 2014, players were divided into a Central Division team and an Atlantic Division team. In 2014, the players have decided on the coaches' votes. The game takes place alongside multiple other competitions, together known as All-Star Weekend. These competitions include the Three-Point Long Distance Shootout and the Slam Dunk Championship.

Results
See also
List of NBL Canada All-Stars
Passage 7:
NHL All-Star Skills Competition
The National Hockey League All-Star Skills Competition, officially the NHL All-Star Game SuperSkills Competition during certain past years, is an event on the night preceding the National Hockey League All-Star Game. Started at the 41st National Hockey League All-Star Game in Pittsburgh in 1990, the NHL uses the event to showcase the talents of its all-star participants. The All-Star teams select representatives for each event, with points awarded to the winning team.

Current events
Through 2023

Accuracy Shooting
The purpose of the event is to hit the four targets attached to the four corners of a goal in the fastest time. Prior to 2011, the object of the event was to hit all four targets in as few attempts as possible. Under this format, seven players have gone four-for-four: Ray Bourque in 1992 and 1993, Mark Messier in 1996, Jeremy Roenick in 2004, Tomas Kaberle in 2008, Evgeni Malkin in 2009, Daniel Sedin in 2011, plus Nazem Kadri, Brock Nelson and twice with Connor McDavid in 2023. Sedin is the current record holder, hitting 4/4 targets in 7.3 seconds. For the 2018 competition, the traditional foam targets were replaced with LED targets that light up to show the player where to shoot the puck next. During the 2019 Skills Competition, the LED light-up targets featured face emojis of four all-star NHL players. The 2020 competition introduced a fifth target in the center of the net, with the targets showing each player's name, team logo, All-Star Game logo, number of All-Star appearances by that player, and uniform number. The 2023 edition reverted to the four foam targets, but also introduced a knock-out style to the competition. As a result, while having the best time of the night, McDavid would ultimately be third in the competition, being beat by Kadri in the semi-finals.

Winners
^ #:Score in final round is listed

Breakaway Challenge
From the 2007–08 season onwards, the Breakaway Challenge format was changed to a "slam dunk" style challenge, where individual shooters showcase creative and skillful breakaways, with the winner being determined by fan voting via text messaging.

Winners
Fastest skater
The purpose of the event is to be fastest skater around a designated course within the rink. The final race each year was originally one full lap around the rink until 2008, when the event was revised to a course, only to be changed back to one full lap after 2015. In 2016, American-born Dylan Larkin finished with a time of 13.172, setting the record.

Winners
* - Player was part of the All-Star Rookies; participated in the Skills Competition, but not the All-Star Game.

Hardest Shot
The purpose of the event is to have the hardest shot. Martin Frk owns the record for the hardest shot in hockey with 109.2 mph during the 2020 AHL all-star competition. Zdeno Chara owns the NHL record for the hardest shot with 108.8 mph (175.1 km/h) in 2012, besting his own previous record of 105.9 in 2011. Prior to Chara the record was held by Al Iafrate at 105.2 mph. After Chara, Shea Weber holds the 3 hardest shots in 2015 and 2016, with 108.5 mph (174.6 km/h) in 2015, 108.1 (174 km/h) and 107.8 (173.5 km/h) on his post-match gala shot. (The world record is 110.3 mph (177.5 km/h) held by Denis Kulyash)
Al MacInnis holds the record for the most number of hardest shot wins at seven total (with an * on his speeds, as Al MacInnis always used a wooden stick, rather than the reinforced composite/foam that modern sticks are made out of, because he said he got more accuracy with a wooden stick. He likely would have had a faster shot using the more modern sticks).

Winners
Past Events
The following is a partial list of past events:

Breakaway Relay
The Breakaway Relay was held from 1991 to 2007. The purpose of the event is to use teamwork to score on a breakaway against an opposing goalie. Points are awarded to the team with the most goals and the individual goalie who lets in the fewest goals.

Winners
Elimination Shootout
The Elimination Shootout was held from 2008 to 2012. The purpose of the event is for individual scorers to try to score on a breakaway against an opposing goalie. Shooters who score stay alive in the contest while those failing to score are eliminated. The contest goes until all shooters are eliminated but one, with that shooter being the winner.

Winners
Elite Women's 3-on-3 Hockey
The Elite Women's 3-on-3 Hockey was held in 2020. Twenty of the best women's players in the world competed in a 20-minute, 3-on-3 game, with ten American All-Stars facing off against ten Canadian All-Stars.There was two 10-minute periods with a running clock (except last minute of regulation and penalty shots). Teams switch ends after one period of play. Penalties will be "served" with penalty shot being awarded to the player fouled. And in the event of a tie, there will be a 3-minute sudden death overtime with a running clock to determine the winner. If tied after overtime, a sudden death shootout will occur.
Rosters
Team Canada
Forwards: Meghan Agosta, Melodie Daoust, Rebecca Johnston, Sarah Nurse, Marie-Philip Poulin, Natalie Spooner and Blayre Turnbull.
Defensemen: Renata Fast and Laura Fortino.
Goaltender: Ann-Renee Desbiens.
Coach: Jayna Hefford
Team USA
Forwards: Anne Pankowski, Alex Carpenter, Kendall Coyne Schofield, Brianna Decker, Amanda Kessel, Hilary Knight, Jocelyne Lamoureux-Davidson.
Defensemen: Kacey Bellamy and Lee Stecklein
Goaltender: Alex Rigsby Cavallini.
Coach: Cammi Granato

Winners
Four Line Challenge
The Four Line Challenge was held in 2017. The purpose of this event is for four skaters from each team to earn points by scoring goals from each line on the ice.

1st skater – two shots from near blue line. Goal in upper corners of the net = 1 point.
2nd skater – two shots from center ice. Goal in lower corners = 1 point. Goal in upper corners = 3 points.
3rd skater – two shots from far blue line. Goal in lower center corner ("five hole") = 1 point. Goal in upper corners = 5 points.
4th skater – two shots from far goal line. Goal in "five hole" = 10 points. If goalie scores = 20 points.

Winners
Goaltenders competition
The Goaltenders competition was held from 1990 to 2007. Points are awarded to the goalie allowing the fewest goals against in the Zone and Shootout/Breakaway Relay Events.

Winners
NHL Shooting Stars
The NHL Shooting Stars was held in 2020. It had players shooting from an elevated platform approximately 30 feet above the ice surface of the rink located in the seating bowl. Each Player shoots 7 pucks, scoring points for each target hit. (The arch target in center ice is 145 feet from the shooting platform). Players may hit the same target multiple times. In event of a tie, a sudden death "score-off" will occur.

Winners
NHL Shootout
The NHL Shootout was held from 2015 to 2017. The purpose of this event is for individual shooters to try to score on a breakaway against an opposing goalie. It is similar to the past event, Elimination Shootout; however, the shooter is not eliminated. The contest continues for three 2-minute rounds as six skaters from each team per round get a chance to score on the opposing team's goalie, gathering enough points until time runs out. Goals scored with game pucks equal 1 point, while Discover shootout pucks equal 2 points.

Winners
Passing Challenge/Premier Passer
The Passing Challenge made its debut in 2018, and was renamed Premier Passer in 2019. The purpose of this event is for skaters to earn points for their division by passing the puck to various targets, courses and nets in the fastest time possible. Note: Each skill must be completed before moving on to the next station.

Target Passing: each player must complete four successful passes to the targets that randomly light up.
Give and Go: each player must successfully complete the four required passes through the course.
Mini Nets: each player must complete a pass into each of the four mini nets and the game net.

Winners
Puck Control Relay
The Puck Control Relay was held from 1990 to 2019. The purpose of the event is to be fastest skater over the course while also maintaining control of the puck through a series of pylons. There are two races; the first where each team has three skaters in a race against each other and the second for the best individuals of each conference. One goal awarded to the winning team of each competition.
This event returned in 2018. Skaters from each division earn points on their skills with puck handling in the fastest time possible. Note: each skill must be completed before moving on to the next station.

Stick-handling: each skater must control the puck through a series of eight pucks.
Cone Control: each skater with a puck must skate through a series of eight cones.
Gates: as a skater approaches each gate, he must shoot the puck through the lit rung.

Winners
Save Streak
The Save Streak was held from 2018 to 2022. The purpose of this event is for goaltenders to earn points for their division by saving as many pucks as possible against an opposing division's shooter in NHL shootout fashion. The goaltender with the longest "save streak" and most saves wins the competition. Note: the winning goaltender receives $25,000.

Each scoring attempt is officiated in accordance with NHL shootout rules and begins on the referee's whistle.
Each goalie will face all players from an opposing division.
Players from each division will shoot numerically with the division captain shooting last.
If a goalie saves the divisional captain's shot, he will continue to face shooters until a goal is scored.
If there is a tie for the longest "save streak", the winner will be determined by the total number of saves made in their round.

Winners
Skills Challenge Relay
The Skills Challenge Relay was held from 2011 to 2017. This event had the following relays:

One timers – three shooters must each score 2 goals from various locations in the offensive zone
Passing – one passer must complete a pass into six small nets
Puck Control Relay – one skater with the puck skates through a series of cones
Stick Handling – one skater controls the puck through a series of pucks
Accuracy Shooting – one shooter must hit four targets
Goalie Goals - one goalie must score 2 goalsTwo groups of each team participate: one-timers having left-hand shooters in one group and right-hand shooters in another.

Winners
Skills Conference winner
In 2009, there was no score kept.
In 2016, the winning conference was given the choice of whether to play the first or second mini-game in the All-Star Game the next day. In 2017, the winning division was given the choice of which opponent to play first in the All-Star Game.In 2018, even though there were four divisions, the competition focused on individual player and no score was kept.
Passage 8:
BB&amp;T Center (Sunrise, Florida)
FLA Live Arena (previously known as the National Car Rental Center, Office Depot Center, BankAtlantic Center, and BB&T Center) is an indoor arena located next to Sawgrass Mills in Sunrise, Florida. It is the home venue for the Florida Panthers of the National Hockey League. It was completed in 1998, at a cost of US$185 million, almost entirely publicly financed, and features 70 suites and 2,623 club seats.

History
In 1992, Wayne Huizenga obtained a new NHL franchise that would eventually become the Florida Panthers. Until the team had an arena of their own, they initially played at the now-demolished Miami Arena, sharing the venue with the NBA's Miami Heat. Sunrise City Manager Pat Salerno made public a $167-million financing and construction plan for a civic center near the Sawgrass Expressway in December 1995, and Broward County approved construction in February 1996. In June 1996, the site was chosen by the Panthers, and in July, Alex Muxo gathered more than a dozen architects, engineers and contractors for the first major design brainstorming session. Architects Ellerbe Becket were given 26 months to build the arena, which had to be ready by August 30, 1998, to accommodate the 1998–99 NHL season. Despite never having designed a facility that had taken less than 31 months from start to finish, they accepted the job.
Seventy suites were completed with wet bars, closed circuit monitors and leather upholstery. Averaging over 650 square feet (60 m2), the suites are the largest in the country for this type of facility. Also home to private lounge box seating, all construction activity was generated by over fifty subcontractors and 2.3 million man hours without a single injury. Known as the Broward County Civic Center during construction, the naming rights were won in July 1998 by National Car Rental — a company purchased by Huizenga in January 1997 — leading to the venue being named the National Car Rental Center. A certificate of occupancy was given on September 12, 1998, and the arena opened on October 3, 1998, with a Celine Dion concert. The next day, Elton John performed, and on October 9, 1998, the Florida Panthers had their first home game at their new arena.As NRC's new parent company, ANC Rental, went bankrupt in 2002, the Panthers sought a new sponsor for the arena. It became the Office Depot Center in the summer of 2002. (Office Depot is an office supply retailing company, which is headquartered in nearby Boca Raton.) Just over three years later, the arena's name changed again; it became the BankAtlantic Center on September 6, 2005. (BankAtlantic was headquartered in nearby Fort Lauderdale.)
Because BB&T purchased BankAtlantic in July 2012, the arena was rebranded as the BB&T Center.The arena is currently the largest in Florida and second-largest in the Southeastern United States, behind Greensboro Coliseum. During the 2011 offseason, the BB&T Center replaced the original green seats in the lower bowl with new red seats, as a part of the Panthers' "We See Red" campaign.In October 2012, Sunrise Sports and Entertainment completed installation of the Club Red seating sections encompassing the center ice seats during hockey games. It is an all-inclusive nightclub experience following the trend of other sports and entertainment venues in incorporating high-end seating sections and clubs.The ADT Club, located on the club level, offers food and beverage. The Duffy's Sky Club at the BB&T Center encompasses approximately 8,000 square feet (740 m2) and can cater to a maximum of about 500 guests. The Penalty Box offers fans another seating and dining option inside the BB&T Center. The Legends Lounge is a restaurant located on the Lexus Suite Level, and offers sit down service.On May 14, 2013, Broward County voted to fund a new scoreboard for the county-owned arena. On October 11, 2013, the scoreboard made its debut for the Panthers' 2013–14 home opener.In February 2019, it was announced that BB&T would be merging with SunTrust Banks to form Truist Financial Corporation. The merged company decided to not renew the naming rights agreement after it expired in 2021; the arena will thus have the temporary name of FLA Live Arena until a new rights partner is found.

Concerts
Notable events
NHL
The Florida Panthers hosted the 2001 NHL Entry Draft & 2015 NHL Entry Draft at the arena.
The arena served as the site for the 2003 NHL All-Star Game on February 2, 2003. The Western Conference defeated the Eastern Conference 6–5 in a shootout victory. It marked the first "official" shootout in the NHL.
The arena was due to host the 2021 NHL All-Star game, but it was cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
The arena hosted the 2023 NHL All-Star Game on February 4, 2023.
The arena hosted the third and fourth games of the 2023 Stanley Cup Finals.

Boxing, mixed martial arts
The arena has held boxing and mixed martial arts events such as EliteXC: Heat featuring the main event of Seth Petruzelli and Kimbo Slice took place on October 4, 2008. On February 15, 2009, a lightweight bout between Nate Campbell and Ali Funeka took place in the arena.
Strikeforce MMA made their debut at the arena on January 30, 2010, with the Strikeforce: Miami event on Showtime.UFC on FX 3 took place at the arena on June 8, 2012. It was the first UFC event ever held at the arena.UFC Fight Night: Jacaré vs. Hermansson (also known as UFC Fight Night 150 or UFC on ESPN+ 8) took place at the arena on April 27, 2019. It was the first time UFC returned to the arena since 2012.
The arena hosted an exhibition boxing match between Floyd Mayweather Jr. and John Gotti III, on June 11, 2023.

Professional wrestling
WCW Bash At The Beach - July 11, 1999
WWF Armageddon – December 12, 1999
WWE Armageddon – December 15, 2002

Rodeo
The Professional Bull Riders brought their Built Ford Tough Series tour to the BB&T Center in September 2005 for a bull riding event, which was won by Kody Lostroh (who ultimately became the Rookie of the Year that same year).

Other events
On May 23, 2008, Senator Barack Obama held a rally as part of his presidential primary campaign.
Several months later on October 29, Obama returned to the arena to hold a rally as part of his presidential campaign. The rally was presented as a paid programm airing on several major broadcast and cable networks live.
On August 10, 2016, Candidate Donald Trump held a rally as part of his presidential campaign.
On February 21, 2018, the venue hosted a CNN town hall meeting on gun control in response to the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting that occurred a week earlier; it was attended by 7,000 people, including survivors of the shooting and relatives of the victims.
On June 27, 2018, rapper XXXTentacion's fan memorial and public funeral was held at the arena.
On November 26, 2019, President Donald Trump held a campaign rally.

Regular events
In addition to the Panthers, the arena was formerly home to the Florida Pit Bulls of the American Basketball Association, the Miami Caliente of the Lingerie Football League, and the Florida Bobcats of the AFL, along with the only season of the Florida ThunderCats. This arena also serves as the host for the Orange Bowl Basketball Classic held every December in conjunction with the namesake college football game.

Arena information
Seating
Basketball: 20,737
Hockey: 19,250
End-Stage Concerts: 15,207 – 23,000
Center-Stage Concerts: 25,000
17,000 square feet (1,600 m2) of arena floor space for trade shows and other events such as circuses and ice shows.

Parking and loading docks
Total: 7,045 spaces (Does not include production or bus/oversized vehicle parking)
General parking: 4,787 Spaces
Suite/club seat parking: 1,430 spaces
Garage: 226 spaces
Disabled parking: 90 spaces
Event staff: 512 spaces
Truck doors: 5
Waste removal docks: 2

Food and novelty concessions
Plaza Level: 3 food courts and Pantherland Retail
Mezzanine Level: 3 food courts and two points of purchase kiosks
Passage 9:
58th National Hockey League All-Star Game
The 2011 National Hockey League All-Star Game (also known as the 2011 National Hockey League All-Star Game presented by Discover) was played on January 30, 2011. The game took place at the RBC Center in Raleigh, home of the Carolina Hurricanes. Originally, the Game was supposed to be hosted by the Phoenix Coyotes, but due to ownership issues, the NHL decided to move the game. After bidding for the game reopened, it was awarded to Carolina and fulfilled a nine-year-old promise made to the franchise by NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman.
The 2011 version of the All-Star Game featured a break from the traditional way in which teams were organized. Instead of using conferences or player nationalities as in the past, teams were selected by captains in a fantasy draft days prior to the game. Fans still elected players to the All-Star Game, but instead of the traditional 12 starters (six for each team), they elected only six players, with the remaining 36 players involved in the game selected by the NHL. Sidney Crosby received the most votes of any player, but due to a concussion he was unable to participate in the game. The participating players voted for team captains, selecting Nicklas Lidstrom of the Detroit Red Wings and Eric Staal of the Hurricanes.
Staal won the first pick in the draft and selected longtime teammate Cam Ward, while the Toronto Maple Leafs' Phil Kessel was the last player chosen. The annual SuperSkills Competition was held the night before the Game and featured Alexander Ovechkin winning his third consecutive Breakaway Challenge. In addition, Zdeno Chara broke his own SuperSkills Competition record for hardest shot at 105.9 mph (170.4 km/hr). Team Staal won the contest 33–22.
Team Lidstrom won the game 11–10, the 21 combined goals was the fourth highest total scored in an NHL All-Star Game. The first Penalty shot in All-Star Game history was called after Ovechkin threw his stick to break-up a Matt Duchene breakaway. Registering one goal and two assists, Patrick Sharp of the losing Team Staal won the Most Valuable Player Award. Jeff Skinner was the youngest player to ever play in an NHL All-Star Game. Shea Weber recorded four assists, making him only the second defenceman to accomplish the feat in one All-Star Game. Fellow defenceman Lidstrom registered a +7 rating, the highest in an All-Star Game since 1991. Winning goaltender Tim Thomas became the first goaltender in NHL history to win three consecutive All-Star Games. This had been the first NHL All-Star Game since the 2009 season, since there wasn't one in 2010 due to the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada the first time in an NHL Market.

Background
The 58th National Hockey League All-Star Game was originally scheduled to be hosted by the Phoenix Coyotes at Jobing.com Arena in Glendale, Arizona. However, due to the ongoing bankruptcy case, potential ownership changes in the Coyotes organization, and the possibility of relocation, the NHL decided to reopen bidding to host the game. In the bidding process, 14 teams made bids for All-Star Games or NHL Drafts for the next three years. Out of all the bids, the NHL chose the Carolina Hurricanes to be the new host team and on April 7, 2010, the announcement was made by NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman and Hurricanes President and General Manager Jim Rutherford.The awarding of the All-Star Game fulfilled a nine-year-old promise Bettman made to the city of Raleigh. In 2001, he promised the organization that they would host an All-Star Game if the season ticket base reached 12,000. After reaching that plateau, Bettman indicated that other community assets were still required to secure a bid. Most notably, a proper convention center for ancillary events was needed, along with a four-star hotel, which was completed in 2009 with the new Raleigh Convention Center and adjoining Raleigh Marriott City Center in downtown Raleigh.Three months after receiving the All-Star Game, the Hurricanes unveiled the logo for the 2011 game. The logo was designed with some homage to the host team and city hidden within it. The shape of the logo is similar to the Hurricanes primary logo, along with the team colors of red, black and silver. The banners at the top and bottom of the logo are inspired by the state flag of North Carolina.The NHL and the city of Raleigh also presented a three-day festival to coincide with All-Star weekend called NHL All-Star Wide Open. The festivities include a series of free concerts, headlined by the band 3 Doors Down, interactive games and attractions, special appearances, Hockey Hall of Fame trophy and memorabilia displays, pin trading and trading card zones and a street party similar to the city's own annual festival, Raleigh Wide Open. There was also a charity 5K fun run, starting and ending at RBC Center with the Carolina Hurricanes "Kids 'N Community Foundation" being the beneficiary of the raised funds.

New format
On November 10, 2010, the National Hockey League Players' Association (NHLPA) unveiled a new format for selecting the NHL All-Star teams: the traditional conference format was replaced by a "fantasy draft." Fans voted for six players, from either conference (three forwards, two defencemen and one goaltender), and the NHL selected another 36 players, for a total of 42 players. The chosen players then appointed two captains; the NHL and NHLPA, with input from the players, named two alternate captains for each team. Each team had two forwards and one defenceman as its captain and alternates. The captains and alternates selected their team members in a fantasy-style draft held on January 28, 2011. The first pick was determined by a coin toss, with alternating picks after the first. Teams consisted of three goaltenders, six defencemen and 12 forwards. Although the draft rules did not dictate a strict order in which positions had to be filled, to guarantee the final picks were not constrained by having to satisfy roster composition rules, the teams' three goaltenders had to be chosen by the end of round ten, and all defencemen had to be chosen by the end of round 15. According to NHL Vice President of Hockey and Business Development Brendan Shanahan, the new format was introduced to add excitement and intrigue into all the events, while make it more fun for everyone involved.For 2011, the NHL eliminated the YoungStars Game which had been played in the previous five All-Star weekends. However, rookies were still featured at the Super Skills Competition. A group of 12 Calder Trophy-eligible players were split into two groups of six. At the conclusion of the fantasy draft's 15th round, one rookie was selected from the 12 to choose which team his group would join for the competition.This was the first time the traditional "East vs. West" format was not used since 2002, when the World All-Star Team defeated North America 8–5 in Los Angeles.

Uniforms
The All-Star uniforms that debuted in this game featured a unique striping pattern coming from the back of the shoulders going down the arms. As the main stripe crossed below the elbow, it, and the radiating stripes coming from it, switched from the back of the sleeves to the front. The front of the jersey also featured the player's number between the collar and the large NHL crest, an unusual placement for a uniform number. Team Staal wore white uniforms with red trim, while Team Lidstrom wore navy blue uniforms with lighter blue trim. These uniforms would return for the next All-Star Game.

The Guardian Project
During the All-Star weekend, the NHL announced a new "superhero franchise", The Guardian Project. Created by comic book writer Stan Lee, the project featured 30 new superheroes representing the 30 NHL teams, all which were unveiled at the All-Star Game. The goal of the project was to appeal to pre-teen and teenage boys in hopes of bringing in "new audience to the NHL, while engaging the existing, established hockey fan base through a compelling tale of good vs. evil."

Voting
One hundred players were chosen to be on the ballot for the All-Star Game (minimum of two players from each team), but fans were also given the option to write in any player who was not listed. Ballots were all digital for the fourth consecutive time, giving fans the ability to cast votes online at NHL.com and Facebook. Votes could also be cast via text messages from mobile devices and Smartphone users could vote by way of a mobile ballot feature. The NHL put no limitation on the number of votes an individual could cast. When fan balloting ended, 14.3 million votes had been cast and the top six were named to the All-Star Game. The six top vote recipients were from only two teams, the Pittsburgh Penguins (4) and Chicago Blackhawks (2). Individually, Sidney Crosby led all players with 635,509 votes, while teammate Kris Letang was elected as a write-in candidate. The six players elected by the fans are listed below with their vote totals.

Draft
After naming the remaining All-Stars, each player voted for team captains. The players selected the 12-time All-Star, Nicklas Lidstrom, and the captain of the host Carolina Hurricanes, Eric Staal. Lidstrom was assigned the home blue uniforms while Staal received the away whites. The NHL further named their alternate captains, placing Ryan Kesler and Mike Green with Staal while Patrick Kane and Martin St. Louis joined Team Lidstrom. Prior to the draft, the NHL determined head coaches for the teams via a coin toss. Chicago's Joel Quenneville and his assistant, Mike Haviland, were named coaches as a result of winning the Stanley Cup last year. Philadelphia Flyers Head Coach Peter Laviolette and the Vancouver Canucks' Alain Vigneault earned the distinction by having the highest winning percentage through January 8, 2011. After the coin toss, Quenneville was assigned to Team Staal, while Laviolette and Vigneault were given Team Lidstrom.Team Staal won the first pick in the draft, and Eric Staal chose longtime teammate Cam Ward with his first pick. With the fifth pick in the draft, Team Staal selected Daniel Sedin. His twin brother Henrik was taken with the next pick by Team Lidstrom. The All-Star Game marked the first time the two have ever played against each other in an organized game. Throughout the draft, Eric Staal selected players that had a personal connection with him. He selected his brother, Rangers defenceman Marc Staal, in the seventh round, fellow Thunder Bay native Patrick Sharp in the eighth round, and teammate Jeff Skinner in the 11th round. The last player selected was Toronto's Phil Kessel. As a reward for being the last selection, he was given a new car and $20,000 was given to the charity of his choice. Kessel stated he would put the money toward a cancer charity he became involved with in 2006 when he was battling testicular cancer. When the time came for the rookies to decide which team they would participate in the skills competition, Taylor Hall, who won the right via a puck flip, chose Team Lidstrom for his group. All players were allowed to wear the numbers they use in their respective teams. For Team Lidstrom, Henrik Sedin and Dustin Byfuglien both wore number 33, while Brad Richards and Steven Stamkos wore number 91. Team Staal had three pairs having same number: Patrick Sharp and Corey Perry with number 10, Daniel Sedin and Dan Boyle with number 22 and Paul Stastny and Patrik Elias with number 26. The complete team rosters are listed below with players appearing in the order in which they were chosen.

Withdrawn
Prior to the draft several players withdrew due to injury or, in the case of Jarome Iginla, family concerns.

SuperSkills Competition
The SuperSkills competition began with the Fastest Skater competition, where the competitors skated one lap around the rink. The winner of each round earned a point for their team. The opening round was skated backwards, followed by each team's rookie representative. Then two goaltenders skated off before returning to the traditional form. Following preliminary rounds the two fastest competitors from each team faced off in a final round, where Michael Grabner defeated Taylor Hall earning two points for Team Staal. The Breakaway Challenge featured six players (three from each team) taking four shoot-out attempts. Fans voted for the winner via text message. The winner earned four points for his team. Second place was awarded three points and third received one point. Alexander Ovechkin won by a wide margin defeating second place P. K. Subban by over 17 percentage points, it was the third consecutive win in the competition by Ovechkin. Loui Eriksson finished third to round out the point earners from the competition. The Shooting Accuracy featured two players shooting targets in the four corners of the net. Winners were determined by the fastest player to hit all four targets. Daniel Sedin hit all four targets on four shots in his first round setting the overall fastest time hitting them all in just 7.3 seconds. He followed that up by hitting four in five shots during the final round to defeat the Blackhawks' Patrick Kane.Following Shooting Accuracy, both teams participated in the Skills Challenge Relay. Each team broke into two groups and went through a series of drills designed to showcase players' skills. It started with one timers, then proceeded to passing, where a single player had to complete a pass into six small nets. From there it went to the Puck Control Relay, having a participant skate through a series of cones with a puck. Another player then took on the Stick Handling drill, controlling a puck through a series of stationary pucks. The relay ended when a final player completed the Shooting Accuracy, again hitting all four targets. The two groups from Team Lidstrom finished first and third in the competition, gaining their team a total of five points. During the Hardest Shot competition reigning champion Zdeno Chara was defeated in his preliminary round match up by Shea Weber. In the final round, Chara again matched up with Weber. Chara successfully defended his title by defeating Weber with a shot registering 105.9 mph. The speed set a new SuperSkills record surpassing his own record and marking the fourth time he has won the event. Despite being down by a large margin prior to the Elimination Shootout, Team Lidstrom still had an opportunity to win the contest. Players continued to shoot provided they scored – scoring one point per goal, until only one player remained. However, the shoot-out was won by Team Staal's Corey Perry as he was the only player to score in all three of his attempts. The full results are listed below.

Game play
The scoring started early in the game as Team Staal's Alexander Ovechkin scored the game's first goal in just 50 seconds into the first period. When he took his first shift Jeff Skinner officially became the youngest player to play in an All-Star game (18 years, 259 days) surpassing the mark set in 1984 by Steve Yzerman by eight days. By the time Claude Giroux scored, less than five minutes later, Team Staal had opened up a 4–0 lead. Team Lidstrom's Marc-Andre Fleury allowed the four goals on only nine shots while his counterpart Cam Ward stopped the first four shots he faced. The tide turned a little over halfway through the first period when Anze Kopitar scored on a backhand shot. Team Lidstrom completed the first period comeback with under four minutes left in the period when Eriksson and Matt Duchene scored 23 seconds apart to tie the game at four. Team Lidstrom finished the period scoring on four of their final ten shots.Team Staal recaptured the lead early in the second with goals by Patrick Sharp and Kris Letang. They were unable to hold the lead though as Team Lidstrom tied the game at six with a second goal from Kopitar and one by Steven Stamkos. They quickly took their first lead on a goal by Daniel Briere just 1:20 later, ending the period up 7–6.Early in the third period Eric Staal tied the game at seven with his first goal of the game. Minutes later Duchene got a breakaway, but before he could take a shot, Ovechkin threw his stick at the puck, resulting in the first penalty shot in All-Star game history, and only the third penalty assessed during the past ten years of All-Star competition. Duchene took the shot against Henrik Lundqvist, who stopped the attempt. Kris Letang scored shortly after the penalty shot to give back the lead to Team Staal. Briere scored a little over a minute later assisted by Weber and Henrik Sedin to re-tie the game. Weber's assist was his fourth of the game making him the second defenceman in history to record four assists in an All-Star Game (Ray Bourque, 1985). Team Lidstrom added two more goals before Rick Nash scored to cut the deficit to one. With about a minute and a half left in the game, Team Staal pulled their goaltender for the extra attacker. The decision backfired as Eriksson scored on the empty net with 1:11 remaining. Eric Staal scored with 33.6 seconds remaining to bring his team back within one goal, but they failed to get another shot on goal before time ran out. By coming back from a four-goal deficit to win the game Team Lidstrom set the record for biggest comeback victory in All-Star history. Lidstrom finished the game with a +7 rating, the highest rating since 1991 when Adam Oates was also a +7 for the Wales Conference. Tim Thomas earned the victory becoming the first goaltender to win three straight All-Star Games. Patrick Sharp was named Most Valuable Player (MVP) after registering one goal and two assists in a losing cause for Team Staal. The combined 21 goals was the fourth highest total in NHL All-Star Game history.

Summary
W – Tim Thomas
L – Henrik Lundqvist

KeyPlayer1 (Player2, Player3) 1:00 denotes that Player1 scored a goal after 1:00, with assists from Player2 and Player3.
GWG denotes the game-winning goal.
EN denotes an empty net goal
W denotes the goaltender awarded the win.
L denotes the goaltender assigned the loss.Source: NHL

Notes
^ A: Briere was named as a replacement for Iginla.^ B: Yandle was named as a replacement for Enstrom.^ C: Havlat was named as a replacement for Hemsky.^ D: Stastny was named as a replacement for Crosby.^ E: Skinner was named as a replacement for Malkin.^ F: McBain replaced Eberle on the rookie team.^ G: Subban was named as a replacement for Skinner who was promoted from the rookie team to the All-Star Game.^ H: Chara's shot was 105.9 mph (170.4 km/hr), a new record.
Passage 10:
23rd National Hockey League All-Star Game
The 23rd National Hockey League All-Star Game was held in the St. Louis Arena in St. Louis, home of the St. Louis Blues, on January 20, 1970. It was the first time the All-Star Game was held at the St. Louis Arena. The East Division All-Stars defeated the West Division All-Stars 4–1. Bobby Hull was named the game's most valuable player.
It was also the first NHL All-Star Game carried live on American network television, airing on CBS.

League business
Clarence Campbell, president of the NHL, announced that the NHL All-Star Game will be held in Boston in 1971, in Minnesota in 1972, and in New York City in 1973. He also announced that the NHL would expand to Buffalo and Vancouver for the next season.

The game
It was the first time the game had been held outside of the Stanley Cup champion's home rink since the 1948 game in Chicago. Brad Park, Bobby Clarke and Tony Esposito were the only three players making their first appearance in the game. Clarke was substituting for Phil Goyette, who had a knee injury.

Summary
Source: Podnieks

Team lineups
See also
1969–70 NHL season