Passage 1:
Lower South Bay, New York
Lower South Bay, commonly called South Bay, is a hamlet on the southwest corner of Oneida Lake, Oneida County, New York, United States. It is opposite North Bay, and is surrounded by many islands to the west, north and east, including Geersbeck Island, Hall Island, Glosky Island, Schroeppel Island, Denmans Island and Long Island (not to be confused with Long Island, New York City). Lower South Bay also lies near the town of Cicero, approximately two miles west.
Passage 2:
Jones Beach Island
Jones Beach Island is one of the outer barrier islands off the southern coast of Long Island in the U.S. state of New York.

Etymology
It is named for Major Thomas Jones, who first came to Long Island in 1692, where he proceeded to build the island's first brick house near Massapequa. Jones built a whaling station on Jones Island near the present site of Jones Beach State Park in 1700.Jones Beach Island is sometimes referred to as Oak Beach Island and is the former home of the infamous Oak Beach Inn.  Because of the ephemeral nature of the various inlets, the name Fire Island is sometimes used to refer collectively to the various barrier islands off the south shore of Long Island, but usually refers specifically to the island across the Fire Island Inlet to the east.

Geography
Jones Beach Island is separated from Long Island by South Oyster Bay and Great South Bay, from Long Beach Barrier Island by Jones Inlet to the west, and from Fire Island by Fire Island Inlet to the east.  It straddles the line between Nassau and Suffolk counties.From west to east, Jones Beach Island contains the following communities and parks:

Jones Beach State Park
John F. Kennedy Memorial Wildlife Sanctuary, a Town of Oyster Bay wildlife preserve
Tobay Beach, a Town of Oyster Bay beach
Gilgo, a census-designated place
West Gilgo Beach, a private gated community
Gilgo Beach, a community and Town of Babylon beach
Cedar Beach, a Town of Babylon beach
Overlook Beach, a residents-only Town of Babylon beach
Gilgo State Park, an undeveloped beach
Oak Beach, a census-designated place
Captree, a census-designated place
Captree State ParkThe southern side of the island is known for its beaches that face the open Atlantic Ocean. The best known of the public beaches on the island, Jones Beach State Park on the western tip of the island, is a summer recreational destination for the New York City area.Jones Beach Island is accessible from Long Island on its western end by the Meadowbrook State Parkway to Merrick (with the Loop Parkway providing a spur to Long Beach), and the Wantagh State Parkway to Wantagh.  The Robert Moses Causeway traverses its eastern end, linking to Babylon via the State Boat Channel Bridge and Great South Bay Bridge, as well as to Fire Island by the Fire Island Inlet Bridge. The Ocean Parkway connects all three causeways and runs the length of the island.
Passage 3:
Oak Beach–Captree, New York
Oak Beach–Captree, frequently just called Oak Beach, was a census-designated place (CDP) in the town of Babylon in Suffolk County, New York, United States. The population was 286 at the 2010 census.Prior to the 2010 census, the area was part of a larger CDP called Gilgo-Oak Beach-Captree, New York. The Oak Beach–Captree CDP consists of some small beach communities on a barrier island along the southern edge of Long Island, including Oak Beach, Oak Island, and Captree Island. As of 2020, Oak Beach–Captree was split into two separate CDPs called Oak Beach and Captree.

Geography
Oak Beach–Captree was located at 40°38′21″N 73°17′35″W.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP had a total area of 3.7 square miles (9.5 km2), of which 2.7 square miles (7.1 km2) is land and 0.93 square miles (2.4 km2), or 25.03%, is water.

Demographics
The census numbers are presumably for full-time inhabitants; many of these houses are second homes and not primary residences, although the proportion of seasonal residents is decreasing.
The land for these communities is not privately owned, but leased from the Town of Babylon through the year 2065. However, the residences on the property are owned. If the leases are not renewed at some point in the future, the owners will have to move the houses elsewhere, similar to what happened at High Hill Beach when Jones Beach State Park was created.
Passage 4:
South Oyster Bay
South Oyster Bay or East Bay is a lagoon and natural harbor along the western portion of the south shore of Long Island in New York in the United States. The harbor is formed by Jones Beach Island, a barrier island on the southern side of Long Island. It is approximately 3 mi (5 km) wide between the two islands, and approximately 15 mi (24 km) long. It links to Great South Bay on its eastern end and opens to the Atlantic Ocean through inlets on either side of Jones Beach Island.The name refers to its history as one of the finest oyster beds in the world.

See also
Outer Barrier
Jamaica Bay
Oyster Bay, New York
Great South Bay
Patchogue Bay
South Shore Estuary
Passage 5:
Short Beach (New York)
Short Beach is the beach on the northern shore of the western end of Jones Beach Island. The beach faces South Oyster Bay instead of the Atlantic Ocean, thereby providing some shelter from storm waves.  Since 1851 it has been the home of a coastal lifesaving station operated (at first) by the United States Life-Saving Service and later by the United States Coast Guard. The current facility, Station Short Beach, typically does around 500 search and rescue missions each year —one of the busiest units in the Coast Guard's 1st District.  The Jones Beach State Park's West End Boat Basin is also on Short Beach. The Jones Beach West End barracks of the New York State Park Police is around 200 feet south of the Short Beach shoreline. An uninhabited islet, Short Beach Island, is usually just offshore, but occasionally connects to the beach when low tide exposes sandbars to the surface.

External links
United States Coast Guard Station Jones Beach
Passage 6:
Oak Beach Inn
The Oak Beach Inn, commonly referred to by the abbreviation OBI, was a Long Island nightclub located in Oak Beach, on Jones Beach Island near Captree State Park in the Town of Babylon, Suffolk County, New York.

History and controversy
In 1969, Robert Matherson bought what was then a waterfront barrier island restaurant and converted it into an enormously popular (and controversial) nightclub. The Oak Beach Inn, located in Oak Beach on Jones Beach Island, was the original, and later just referred to as The OBI. He later opened three more OBI nightclubs and named them according to their geographic location. The OBI North was in Smithtown, New York, the OBI East near the Shinnecock Canal en route to The Hamptons, and the OBI West locations in Island Park, New York (which had two locations: first at 3999 Long Beach Road, and later, briefly, at 50 Broadway). All four clubs were located on Long Island and were wildly successful for many years, bringing people in from all over Long Island, New York City, Westchester, southern Connecticut and New Jersey and hosting acts such as Twisted Sister and The Good Rats.In 1979, Matherson sued the town to lease him more land for additional parking, which the town granted. However two years later, new officials disagreed, which caused Matherson to sue again, and when the court favored with Matherson, the town granted him $3 million and the nine acres. In 1993, an unhappy Matherson started a "Move Out of New York Before It's Too Late" campaign complete with a hearse, banners and TV ads. An article in 1993 in The New York Times provided details about his campaign, including information that the New York State Division of Alcoholic Beverage Control raided the club one year earlier in 1992. One of the OBI West locations burned down after only a couple of years of packing in thousands on the weekends. Arson involving organized crime figures referred to in the movie Goodfellas was alleged but never substantiated.

Closure
Over the years, the OBI was involved in many disputes with the local community over issues such as noise, parking and traffic. Finally, in 1999, Matherson sold the property to developer Ross Cassata, who planned to build condominiums. Matherson then moved to Key West, Florida to open a new club of the same name. When it closed, the inn's two-ton statues of whales and dolphins, which were commonly touched by clubgoers, were moved to Danfords on the Sound in Long Island.However, Cassata then sold the nine acres to Suffolk County for $7.95 million and the original property was torn down in 2003 and was replaced with a town-operated park, with later added plans of adding a bed and breakfast, upscale restaurant, boardwalk, water-sport area and boat ramp. The park now hosts activities, such as car racing, and it too has caused controversy. At the time of demolition, the Suffolk County Legislator commented that the park agreement avoided "an enormous tax increase in Babylon, which would have had to pay a court judgment of as much as $20 million or watch its coastline be forever scarred by high-rise development" and the money came from the county's greenway program.

Locations
The original OBI was at 1 Oak Beach Road. The building was sold in 1999, torn down in 2003, land turned into a park with a small beach simply called Oak Beach.
The OBI East was at 239 E Montauk Highway, Hampton Bays. The property underwent extensive renovations between 2018 and 2022 and was reopened as the Canoe Place Inn and Cottages with 20 rooms, 5 cottages, restaurant, bar and a 350 banquet room.The OBI North was at State Road 25A, near Jericho Turnpike, Smithtown. The building burned down in 1980, and the land is now part of Willow Ridge at Smithtown HOA.
The OBI West was at 3999 Long Beach Road, Island Park. The building was torn down between 1994 and 2004, the land is now a parking lot for school buses.
It briefly was located at 50 Broadway (sometimes listed as 50 Austin Blvd.), Island Park as one of a series of famous nightclubs such as the Shell House, The Action House, The Rock Pile, and Speaks.
Robert Matherson later opened Oak Beach Inn at 227 Duval Street, Key West, Florida. Robert Matherson died in 2007.

In popular culture
Robert "Rosebud" Butt is credited with inventing the Long Island Iced Tea, while working as a bartender at the original OBI in the 1970s.
In 2010, the Babylon-based rock band Two Cent Sam released the "OBI Song" and a DIY video celebrating the Oak Beach Inn's history and impact on Long Islanders and the void in Long Island night life after the OBI's destruction.
Passage 7:
Great South Bay
The Great South Bay is a lagoon situated between Long Island and Fire Island, in the State of New York. It is about 45 miles (72 km) long and has an average depth of 4 feet 3 inches (1.3 m) and is 20 feet (6.1 m) at its deepest. It is protected from the Atlantic Ocean by Fire Island, a barrier island, as well as the eastern end of Jones Beach Island and Captree Island.
Robert Moses Causeway adjoins the Great South Bay Bridge, which leads to Robert Moses State Park.

The bay is accessible from the ocean through Fire Island Inlet, which lies between the western tip of Fire Island and the eastern tip of Jones Beach Island. The bay adjoins South Oyster Bay on its western end, and Patchogue and Moriches bays at the east end.

History
In the early 17th century, European settlers first encountered the native Montaukett Indian Nation. Among the earliest British families were the Smith, Carman and Hewlett families. Long Island's South Shore, adjacent to the bay, now includes the communities of Lindenhurst, Babylon, Islip, Oakdale, Sayville, Bayport, Blue Point, Patchogue, Bellport, Shirley, and Mastic Beach.

Environmental concerns
In the late nineteenth century Great South Bay provided many of the clams consumed throughout the region and even the country. The first oysters to be exported from the US to Europe came from Great South Bay. By the latter 20th century, a significant percentage of the habitat was lost. Hurricane Sandy, the largest storm to affect the region since 1938, made landfall with devastating impact to Fire Island sea shores, including multiple breaches, the largest of which formed just south of Bellport. This was formerly known as Old Inlet. Residents were concerned it would have effects on tidal increases and potential flooding, when in actuality it has allowed the bay to relieve some of its captive water, which has changed the salinity and nitrogen levels in the bay. After roughly 75 years, the bay begun flushing itself out which may improve the water condition within the bay. Regulations set forth by the US Government National Wildlife Preserve, which has a seven-mile stretch of land (The Otis Pike Fire Island High Dune Wilderness) prohibit any unauthorized parties from performing any kind of man made changes, thus the inlet has remained open. There have been a number of ongoing public meeting discussing the future of the Inlet. All the other breaches were closed by the Army Corps of Engineers. In 2012, The Save the Great South Bay (STGSB)  not-for-profit organization was formed in order to work towards better conservation of the water and its beachfronts. Save The Great South Bay has increased concerns about boat sewerage pumpouts in The Great South Bay as a serious ecological concern.

See also
South Shore Estuary
Passage 8:
Great South Bay Bridge
The Great South Bay Bridge  is a bridge on the southwest side of Suffolk County, New York, on Long Island. It connects the Robert Moses Causeway from Long Island's mainland over the Great South Bay, connecting to Captree and Jones Beach islands. It serves as access via the Robert Moses Causeway to both of the downstream crossings, the State Boat Channel Bridge and the Fire Island Inlet Bridge, also leading visitors and on-lookers to either the Fire Island Lighthouse or the Robert Moses State Park.

History
The bridge was originally a single span, that opened in 1954 and was called the Captree Bridge. Today it carries southbound traffic.
In 1964, a second parallel span opened to traffic and carried northbound traffic. This brought much needed relief to traffic heading back from Jones Beach, Robert Moses, and Captree parks. The bridges are through trusses and are painted a traditional "bridge green".
In 1997, a major rebuild of the deck of the older span began and was completed in 2000. Safety compliant railings were installed on the older span. In 2013–2014, the northbound span received upgraded railings. Major improvements NYSDOT is considering is a cycle/pedestrian path shared with the northbound lanes. NYSDOT has not released any official plans.

See also
State Boat Channel Bridge
Passage 9:
Oak Beach, New York
Oak Beach is a small community and census-designated place located near the eastern end of Jones Beach Island, a barrier island between the Atlantic Ocean and the Great South Bay of Long Island. The community is part of the village of Babylon in Suffolk County, New York, United States. The eastern part, the Oak Island Beach Association, is gated, whereas the western part is not. The Oak Beach CDP was first listed prior to the 2020 census. Prior to that the community was part of the Oak Beach–Captree census-designated place.

History and amenities
Oak Beach has been inhabited since at least the first decade of the twentieth century, when a U.S. Coast Guard lifesaving station was located there, although it could not be reached overland at that time.  Prior to that, marsh bird hunters had kept shacks in the area.  Ferry access from Babylon enabled cottages to be built and made more accessible by car after construction of Ocean Parkway; it was largely a summer community until the completion of the Robert Moses Causeway in 1951, which allowed much faster travel from the main part of Long Island. It has gradually evolved since then to become a location where most residents live year-round.Although now entirely residential, Oak Beach was once the location of the popular but controversial Oak Beach Inn, which was closed in 1999 and torn down in 2003, along with a small general store ("The Store") and bait/tackle/surf shop that closed a decade earlier.  There is now a public park at the site. The "park" is unusual, in that it lacks any amenities other than a fishing dock and a single portable toilet. While the park encompasses over nine acres of land, there are but two trees and nearly 300 parking spots. In the warmer months the park - or rather the parking lot - collects an informal early Sunday morning motor rally, attracting local motorcycle and car enthusiasts.

Geography
Oak Beach is in southwestern Suffolk County, in the southeast part of the village of Babylon. The census-designated place includes the community of Oak Beach on Jones Beach Island, as well as the community of Oak Island, directly to the north. The CDP is bordered to the east by Captree State Park and to the west by Gilgo State Park. To the south is the west end of Fire Island.

Ownership
The land is not owned by the residents but is on long-term lease from the Village of Babylon.  In the early 1990s, New York State litigated against extension of the lease.  After much negotiation, including detailed environmental impact statements, the lease was renewed (currently through 2050), although with a ramp up in costs. In 2012, the Village of Babylon agreed to extend the current leases through 2065.

Shannan Gilbert
On May 1, 2010,  Shannan Gilbert disappeared after fleeing a client's house in the Oak Beach Association. In December 2010, while searching for Gilbert, the police found 10 dead bodies along the adjacent highway, some bodies in December 2010, others in April 2011. Consequently, the community attracted much public attention.
In December 2011, the body of the original missing sex worker Shannan Gilbert was found in the marsh east of the community. On November 29, 2011, the police announced their belief that one person is responsible for all 10 deaths (whom the press refers to at various times as: "the Long Island serial killer", "LISK", "the Gilgo Beach Killer", or "the Craigslist Ripper"), and that they did not believe the case of Gilbert, who went missing before the first set of bodies was found, was related. "It is clear that the area in and around Gilgo Beach has been used to discard human remains for some period of time," said Suffolk County District Attorney Thomas Spota.On December 10, 2015, Suffolk County Police announced that the FBI had officially joined the investigation. A spokesperson for the FBI confirmed the announcement. The FBI had previously assisted in the search for victims, but was never officially part of the investigation until this announcement. The investigation is ongoing.
Passage 10:
Gilgo-Oak Beach-Captree, New York
Gilgo-Oak Beach-Captree, frequently just called Oak Beach, was a census-designated place (CDP) in Suffolk County, New York within the Town of Babylon. The population was 333 at the 2000 census.
Following the 2010 census, the area was delineated as two CDPs: Gilgo and Oak Beach–Captree. The original CDP contained several small beach communities on a barrier island along the southern edge of Long Island. In order from west to east, these included West Gilgo Beach (on the Nassau/Suffolk county border), Gilgo Beach, Cedar Beach (no residences), Oak Beach (including the Oak Island Beach Association), Oak Island and Captree Island. They are connected to the mainland by Ocean Parkway from the west and Robert Moses State Parkway from the north.
Prior to the 2020 census, the Oak Beach-Captree CDP was further split into the Oak Beach and Captree CDPs.

Geography
Oak Beach is located at 40°38′28″N 73°16′42″W (40.641100, -73.278195).According to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP had a total area of 3.7 square miles (9.6 km2), of which 2.7 square miles (7.0 km2) was land and 0.9 square miles (2.3 km2), or 25.21%, is water.

Demographics
As of the census of 2000, there were 333 people, 161 households, and 94 families residing in the CDP. The population density was 122.1 inhabitants per square mile (47.1/km2). There were 305 housing units at an average density of 111.9 per square mile (43.2/km2). The racial makeup of the CDP was 97.00% White, 0.30% African American and 2.70% Asian. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.80% of the population.
There were 161 households, out of which 14.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 50.9% were married couples living together, 6.2% had a female householder with no husband present, and 41.0% were non-families. 34.8% of all households were made up of individuals, and 11.8% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.07 and the average family size was 2.64.
In the CDP, the population was spread out, with 13.5% under the age of 18, 1.5% from 18 to 24, 28.8% from 25 to 44, 34.8% from 45 to 64, and 21.3% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 48 years. For every 100 females, there were 109.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 100.0 males.
The median income for a household in the CDP was $66,250, and the median income for a family was $105,870. Males had a median income of $61,250 versus $37,083 for females. The per capita income for the CDP was $55,813. None of the families and 0.9% of the population were living below the poverty line, including no under eighteens and none of those over 64.
The census numbers are presumably for full-time inhabitants; many of these houses are second homes and not primary residences, although the proportion of seasonal residents is decreasing.
The land for these communities is not privately owned, but leased from the State of New York through the year 2050.  However, the residences on the property are owned.  If the leases are not renewed at some point in the future, the owners will have to move the houses elsewhere, similar to what happened at High Hill Beach when Jones Beach was created.