Passage 1:
Patrick Henry High School (Ashland, Virginia)
Patrick Henry High School is a public high school in Ashland, Virginia in Hanover County. Patrick Henry is one of four high schools in Hanover County, and the only High school in the western half of the county. In 1959, after years of deliberation, Patrick Henry High School began with the consolidation of Beaverdam, Henry Clay, Montpelier, and Rockville high schools. The western Hanover County high school enrolled students in grades eight through twelve. The name of the school, as well as the name of its literary publications, The Voice, The Spark, and The Orator, reference the history of American Founding Father Patrick Henry, Hanover County's most illustrious citizen. Even the school colors of red, white, and blue are a patriotic symbol of history.
In 1969, Patrick Henry High and John M. Gandy High School merged to form one integrated student body. Also in 1969, a new junior high school was built, and Patrick Henry opened that school year as a senior high school serving students in grades ten through twelve. When the junior high school was changed to a middle school in 1988, Patrick Henry became a high school, enrolling students in grades nine through twelve. The school campus of West Patrick Henry Road, which consists of a complex of buildings, began as a campus style school. Additions of an auditorium, classrooms, cafeteria, new gymnasium, and renovations to the media center and administrative offices resulted in an all-enclosed facility in 1992. As the population and the needs of the school have changed, so have the dimensions of the school. A new addition/renovation was added to the facility in the fall of 2001, providing state-of-the-art career and technical education opportunities. This addition consisted of a broadcasting studio, a bio-technology lab, a communication technology center, a computer-assisted drafting lab, and three classrooms. Patrick Henry celebrated its 50th anniversary in September 2009. Patrick Henry High has an International Baccalaureate program, as well as a NJROTC program.

Extracurricular Activities
Athletics
Cross Country
Football - won the 1994 Virginia high school football state championship
Golf
Field Hockey
Volleyball
The boys' volleyball program won 7 straight VHSL State titles (2016 5A Championship and 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022 Class 4 Championships.) The 7 titles are tied with James River for the most volleyball championships in VHSL history
Cheerleading
Varsity Girls Competition Cheer
Basketball
Gymnastics
Swimming
Indoor Track
Wrestling
Baseball
Softball
Soccer
Tennis
Track
Lacrosse

Performing Arts
Theatre
Mixed Choir
Show Choirs
Band
Strings

Notable alumni
Erron Kinney, NFL Tight End
Damien Woody, Former NFL offensive lineman. Current ESPN Analyst  
Mickie James, TNA/WWE professional wrestler, country music singer 
Jeff Crowder, Randolph Macon College 1992 ODAC player of the year
Lucas Hall, Actor, guitarist, arts advocate and administrator  
Louise Keeton, actress, model and playwright
Passage 2:
Clarkstown High School South
Clarkstown High School South is a public high school located in West Nyack, New York, United States. The school educates students in grades 9 through 12, and is one of two high schools in the Clarkstown Central School District (CCSD). It is commonly referred to as Clarkstown South, or simply "South."
In 2013, Clarkstown South was ranked in Newsweek's list of the 2000 best public high schools in the United States.In 2016, Clarkstown South was ranked in Newsweek's list of the 500 top high schools in the United States, ranking 167th place.
In 2017, Clarkstown South was a part of State Education Commissioner Elia's list of 185 reward schools.In 2018, Clarkstown South was recognized in the National Rankings and earned a silver medal based on their performance on state-required tests and how well they prepare students for college.

School facilities
Clarkstown South building consists of a main lobby, large auditorium, gymnasium (including a wrestling room and a fitness center), music wing, planetarium, two lunchrooms, and three floors of classrooms. In the fall of 2005, a planetarium was built in the rear of the building.  A greenhouse was also constructed in 2006. South offers many music ensembles, including chorus, orchestra, concert band, and marching band.

School groups
The Vikings are also known for their success in many of their school groups. Clarkstown South takes pride in Junior Statesmen of America, DECA, National History Day, United Service Organization/Veterans Affairs Club, Mock Trial Team 2016 Westchester/Rockland County Champions, VAASA (Varsity Athletes Against Substance Abuse), and Mu Alpha Theta chapter because of the many awards they bring home to their school.The school hosted the Clarkstown Summer Theatre Festival since its inception in 1973 until its last season in 2010. Subsequently, it hosted the Hudson Valley Teen Summer Theatre program.

School activities and clubs
Clarkstown South offers a variety of activities and clubs for the students to enjoy. The clubs at South cater to all kinds of students, whether their interests are art, music, math, science, etc. Some of the clubs they have are the Mural Club, South Beat, TV Club, ASMA, World Language Club, Viking Radio, and more.

Notable alumni
Corey Baker (born 1989), baseball pitcher
Tom Basile (born 1975), businessman and politician
Mat Devine (born 1974), Lead Singer Of Kill Hannah, Actor, Author
Thomas Fitton (Class of 1986), American activist, President of Judicial Watch
Ryan Grant, NFL running back
Allison Hagendorf (born 1979), Television personality, music journalist
Cindy Jebb (Class of 1978), Brigadier General, USA and first female Dean of the United States Military Academy at West Point
Patrick Kivlehan (born 1989), baseball outfielder
Raffi Krikorian (Class of 1996), CTO for the Emerson Collective, Former CTO of the Democratic Party, and Former VP of Platform Engineering at Twitter
Glyph Lefkowitz (Class of 1998) Creator of the Twisted framework for the Python programming language
Jay Leiderman (Class of 1989), American criminal defense lawyer, book author
Joseph Pisani (Class of 1989), artist and photographer
Justin Richardson (Class of 1981), psychiatrist and author
Passage 3:
High School Confidential (TV series)
High School Confidential is an eight-part documentary television series created by Sharon Liese, following twelve high school teenagers from Blue Valley Northwest High. The series airs on WE: Women's Entertainment (WE TV). The original run began on March 10, 2008, and concluded on April 28, 2008.
Passage 4:
Bonita Vista High School
Bonita Vista High School (BVH) is a public, four-year (grade levels 9–12) high school located in the city of Chula Vista, California.  It is part of the Sweetwater Union High School District, and offers both Advanced Placement and International Baccalaureate classes. The mascot is a Baron.

History
Bonita Vista High School opened in fall 1966 at a construction cost of $2.5 million. A student committee chose the Baron mascot over a Patriot and a Crusader.

Academics
The school is placed as the number 1 school of the Sweetwater Union High School District, with an Academic Performance Index score of 851 for the 2011 school year, meeting the statewide standard and exceeding amongst other schools in the same district.

Athletics
In 2015, Baron athletic teams won California Interscholastic Federation championships in football and girls' tennis. The football team plays games off-campus at Southwestern College.

Performing arts
BVH has two competitive show choirs, the mixed-gender group "The Music Machine" and the all-female "Sound Unlimited". The school formerly had an all-male group, "Barontones". The Music Machine and Sound Unlimited have both advanced to national-level competitions. The Music Machine was one of the most progressive show choirs in the western United States in the late 1900s. The program hosts an annual competition, San Diego Sings!

Notable alumni
Matt Cameron, drummer of Pearl Jam and Soundgarden
Charisma Carpenter, actress
Costa Dillon, writer
Hannah Flippen, softball player
Byron Frisch, football player
David Garza, Paralympic footballer
Shirley Horton, politician
Guido Knudson, MLB player (2015)
Jennifer Lalor, soccer player and coach
John Macaulay, NFL player (1984)
Ramon Martin Del Campo, soccer playerSteve Peace, politician
Raquel Pomplun, Playboy 2013 Playmate of the Year
David Schipper, professional soccer player
Scott Shields, football player
Joel Zumaya, baseball player

See also
List of high schools in San Diego County, California
List of high schools in California
Passage 5:
Eastview High School
Eastview High School is a comprehensive and college preparatory public high school in Apple Valley, Minnesota, United States. Established in 1997, Eastview is the newest of the four high schools serving Independent School District 196. Newsweek ranked the school in their "List of the Top High Schools in America" for the sixth consecutive time (2000, 2002, 2004, and 2006, 2007, 2008). Eastview has also been recognized by U.S. News & World Report as one of America's Best High Schools. In 2013, Eastview was ranked in the top 3% of the most challenging high schools in the United States, as well as a top comprehensive high school in Minnesota.  Prior to the 2010–2011 school year, Eastview was a member of the Lake Conference, but then broke off with most of the Lake Conference schools in order to create the South Suburban Conference.

Feeder schools
Students matriculate from three different public middle schools:

Falcon Ridge Middle school (located in Apple Valley, MN)
Scott Highlands Middle School (located in Apple Valley, MN)
Black Hawk Middle School (located in Eagan, MN)

History
Eastview High School, District 196's fourth comprehensive high school, opened on September 2, 1997. Located in Apple Valley, MN, includes a 330,000 square foot facility and 200 acres of recreational facilities. It is home to over 2,000 students in grades 9–12. Eastview uses the quarter system - 10 weeks per quarter. There are four quarters in a full school year. The majority of the courses at Eastview High School are quarter courses. Some courses (School of Environmental Studies at the Minnesota Zoo courses and Career Development courses) will be 12 weeks in length because students from all district high schools will be attending these courses.

Location and facilities
Eastview High School is located in Apple Valley, adjacent to 200 acres (0.81 km2) of playing fields and recreational facilities. The 330,000-square-foot (31,000 m2) facility is built to house 2,000 students in grades 9–12. Eastview High School's students have achieved high honors in academics, athletics, and the arts. Eastview was identified as a ten star school (highest rating) by the Minnesota Department of Education.

Curriculum
Through the Minnesota state Post Secondary Enrollment Options (PSEO) program, students are eligible to take classes at state colleges and universities.

Athletics
Eastview's team name is the Lightning and their mascot is Zapp, an anthropomorphic lightning bolt. In only 13 years of existence, Eastview athletic teams have won 21 state championships, 47 section championships, 44 conference championships, 11 state academic championships, and 30 section academic championships. Students from Eastview join forces with other district schools to form the Dakota Hawks, an adaptive athletic team. The Hawks have won 16 state championships since Eastview joined the team when the school opened in 1997.

Notable alumni
Devin Kelley, class of 2004. Actress on The Chicago Code and in the movie Chernobyl Diaries.
Rhys Lloyd, class of 2001. Former NFL kicker.
Erin Maye Quade, class of 2004. Former member of the Minnesota House of Representatives
Passage 6:
Lake Brantley High School
Lake Brantley High School (LBHS) is located in Altamonte Springs, Florida, a suburban community approximately 13 miles (20 km) north of Orlando. It is a public high school serving grade levels 9–12 in Seminole County, FL, operated by Seminole County Public Schools. The school, which opened in 1972, is ranked 79th on Newsweek magazine's 2005 list of the top 100 high schools in the United States and 424th in the 2009 Newsweek list.

Academics
Offers 27 Advanced Placement courses in a wide variety of academic subjects as well as in elective interests
Received an "A" rating from the Florida Department of Education in 2006
Had 7 National Merit Scholar finalists in the class of 2006 and had 2 in 2007
Highest ACT and SAT scores within the district for 2002 and significantly higher than the state average
Over 2008 AP tests administered in 2017.
1,212 students scored 3 or higher on the 2017 AP tests
In the class of 2017, there were 22 AP National Scholars, 76 Scholars w/Distinction, 45 Scholars w/Honors, 129 AP Scholars.

Notable people
Notes and references
External links
Lake Brantley High School athletics department
Passage 7:
Blue Valley Northwest High School
Blue Valley Northwest High School (BVNW) is a high school in Overland Park, Kansas, United States. Blue Valley Northwest is one of five high schools operated by Blue Valley USD 229 school district.
Blue Valley Northwest is a member of the Kansas State High School Activities Association and offers a variety of sports programs. Athletic teams compete in the 6A division and are known as the "Huskies". Extracurricular activities are also offered in the form of performing arts, school publications, and clubs.

Academics
Thirteen courses, mainly for motivated freshmen and sophomores, are designated as "Honors" classes. In addition, 17 Advanced Placement courses for college credit are offered. Students taking Honors or Advanced Placement courses receive weighted GPAs.In 2010, Blue Valley Northwest was selected as one of the six finalists for the first annual Race to the Top High School Commencement Challenge, sponsored by the Department of Education under the Obama administration.In 2015, Blue Valley Northwest students who attempted the tests achieved an average ACT score of 25.3 out of 36 and an average SAT score of 1879 out of 2400. The class of 2015 also had seven National Merit Finalists and 20 National Advanced Placement Scholars.

Extracurricular activities
The Huskies compete in the Eastern Kansas League and are classified as a 6A-5A school according to the KSHSAA. Throughout its history, Blue Valley Northwest has won several state championships in various sports. Many graduates have gone on to participate in Division I, Division II, and Division III athletics.

State championships
Orchestra
BVNW's orchestra has received a 1 (the best) ranking every year the school has been open.  Students in the orchestra also have auditioned and represented the BVNW in local, state, and national orchestras.

Yearbook and Newspaper
The school's yearbook is called Horizon, the newspaper is called "The Express", the school broadcast news program is called Husky Headlines and the school's literary magazine is called The Muse.
The Horizon and Husky Headlines have been nominated for several Pacemaker awards, and in 2004, the "Horizon" won the Pacemaker Award. The school newspaper, The Express is a member of the High School National Ad Network. At the April 2007 JEA conference in Denver, "The Express" was voted the number one newsmagazine. At the November 2007 JEA conference in Philadelphia, the newsmagazine was rated sixth. In 2015, The Express was nominated for a Pacemaker, but did not win. It did receive sixth place among the competition that year. On November 12, 2016, in Indianapolis, The Express won a Newspaper Pacemaker Award, the first for the publication.

Notable alumni
Jason Adam, professional baseball player for the Tampa Bay Rays
Christie Ambrosi, member of the 2000 USA Olympic softball team, who won the gold medal
Bol Bol, professional basketball player for the Orlando Magic
Christian Braun, current basketball player for the Denver Nuggets, former Mr. Kansas Basketball and Kansas Gatorade Player of the Year.
Arash Ferdowsi, co-founder of Dropbox file hosting service
Lisa Forbes, Miss Kansas USA 2004 and Miss USA Pageant contestant
Nathaniel Hackett, former head coach of the Denver Broncos
Zach Hadel (Class of 2011), web animator and co-creator of Smiling Friends for Adult Swim.
Michael McMillian (Class of 1997), actor known for his roles as Henry Gibson on What I Like About You and Steve Newlin on True Blood
Dániel Sallói, professional soccer player for Sporting Kansas City

See also
List of high schools in Kansas
List of unified school districts in KansasOther high schools in Blue Valley USD 229 school districtBlue Valley High School in Stilwell
Blue Valley North High School in Overland Park
Blue Valley West High School in Overland Park
Blue Valley Southwest High School in Overland Park
Blue Valley Academy in Overland Park
High School Confidential
Passage 8:
William Fremd High School
William Fremd High School, or Fremd (initially Palatine High School South), is a public four-year high school located in Palatine, Illinois, a northwest suburb of Chicago, Illinois, in the United States. It is part of Township High School District 211, which also includes James B. Conant High School, Hoffman Estates High School, Palatine High School, and Schaumburg High School. The school is known for its academic excellence, and its athletic, drama, visual arts, and music programs have won state championships in recent years. Academically, Fremd High School has also been recognized by Newsweek as one of "America's Best High Schools" and by U.S. News & World Report as one of 99 outstanding high schools in the United States with the average AP test taker in the class of 2018 taking 5.4 exams. Fremd serves the portion of Palatine that is southwest of the UP NW Line railroad tracks as well as north Hoffman Estates, west Rolling Meadows, north Schaumburg, east South Barrington and southeast Inverness. Feeder schools include Plum Grove Junior High, Carl Sandburg Junior High, Walter Sundling Junior High and Margaret Mead Junior High. Feeder elementary schools are Pleasant Hill, Paddock, Hunting Ridge, Central Road, Willow Bend, Thomas Jefferson, Marion Jordan, Fairview, and Frank C. Whiteley.

History
Fremd opened in 1961 as Palatine High School South. The school was later named after William Fremd who had been a member of the high school board of education for over 30 years and had served on school boards in the area for a consecutive period of more than 45 years. Fremd donated the land for the school. In the first yearbook the school was said to 'blend and stretch into the cornfields'. The school was the second high school to be built in Palatine, Illinois after Palatine High School. Palatine South and then Fremd originally served as the school for all Palatine freshman and sophomores while Palatine High School was the school for juniors and seniors. This plan was only in effect for three years before Fremd was expanded to serve as a 4 year high school. In the fall of 1966 the first junior class entered, and they became the first Fremd graduating class in 1968. Then Junior Cathy Klep designed the Viking logo, based on the Minnesota Vikings logo. Junior, Colleen McGrath designed the school crest, incorporating the Viking logo and modeled after her family crest. A school motto was adopted in 1995 after a contest for students. Sophomore Jessica Frank won the contest. In 2001, construction began to create a new science wing. The courtyard which stood in the center of the school was demolished. After two years of year-round construction, the new science wing was built along with a heating and ventilation facility on the roof of the building.In the early 2000s, Fremd underwent several construction projects, including the replacement of bleachers in the main gymnasium, renovated tiling, and additional classrooms. The music department added a rehearsal room, larger practice rooms with more advanced sound-proof walls, and increased storage space. In the newest addition to the school, a synthetic turf football field was added. In 2016, a new pool facility was added to Fremd.
On November 2, 2015, The New York Times reported that the federal government determined that Fremd's administration violated anti-discrimination laws because "it did not allow a transgender student who identifies as a girl and participates on a girls’ sports team to change and shower in the girls’ locker room without restrictions." The New York Times added that the student in question "identifies as female but was born male."As of 2018, Fremd is one of the largest high schools in the region, with a student body of approximately 2600. The school is also noted for its high operating costs: in the 2016–2017 school year, Fremd's district spent $18,721 per pupil, with the average teacher being paid $99,474.

Academics
In 2018, Fremd had an average SAT score of 1178.5 and a four-year graduation rate of 97.9%. The average class size is 24.7. On the mathematics portion of the SAT, 71.3% of students met or exceeded standards, while on the English/language arts portion, that figure was 68.5%. Additionally, 66.5% of students showed proficiency on the Illinois Science Assessment.From April 1998 to September 2019, 75 students from Fremd earned the highest possible composite score on the ACT, a 36. In the same time frame, only six students earned the highest possible score on the SAT, a 1600.In 1987, Fremd was named among the top in the nation in the United States Department of Education's National Secondary School Recognition Program. Fremd High School has also been recognized by Newsweek as one of "America's Best High Schools" and by U.S. News & World Report as one of 99 outstanding high schools in the United States. In 2006, Fremd was recognized as the 302nd best high school in the nation by Newsweek, with an average of 1.3 AP tests taken per graduating senior.

Athletics
Fremd competes in the Mid-Suburban League (west division), and is a member of the Illinois High School Association (IHSA) which governs most interscholastic sports and competitive activities in the state. Its mascot is the Viking.
Fremd sponsors interscholastic teams for young men and women in basketball, cross country, golf, gymnastics, soccer, swimming & diving, tennis, track and field, volleyball, chess, and water polo. Men may also compete in baseball, football, and wrestling, while women may compete in badminton, bowling, and softball. While not sponsored by the IHSA, the school also sponsors separate teams for young men and women in lacrosse. Hockey is also a club sport for men.The boys basketball team achieved success beginning in the late 1980s. The 1983 team led by BJ Jenkins and Joe Youman made the Sectional for the first time. In 1986, Fremd made it to the Super Sectional for the first time and lost to Kendall Gill led Rich Central, 77-47. The 1988 team was the best ever, led by Jason Joseph and George Poorman. It was upset in the super sectional game by East Aurora and finished with the best record ever, 28-2. The 1989 team led by Todd Leslie returned to the super sectional game and once again lost to East Aurora. The 1993 team was the most successful ever, with a 4th place state finish. They recently celebrated their successful run with a 30 year anniversary get together. Mo Tharp coached the Vikings from 1975–2002 and established Fremd as the premiere basketball program in the northwest suburbs. Tharp was elected into the Illinois Hall of Fame.
The following teams have won their respective IHSA state tournament or meet:

Badminton: 2006–2007, 2008–2009, 2018-2019
Cross Country (boys): 1969–1970
Gymnastics (girls): 1984–1985, 1985–1986, 1986–1987, 1993–1994, 1994–1995, 1995–1996, 1996–1997, 1997–1998, 1998–1999, 2004–2005, 2006–2007, 2007–2008
Hockey: 1990–1991, 1991–1992, 1992–1993. They went 73-1-1 from 1989 to 1993.
Soccer (boys): 1984–1985, 1997–1998
Swimming & Diving (boys): 1993–1994, 1994–1995
Basketball (girls) : 2019-2020The twelve state titles in girls gymnastics is a state record. The girls gymnastics team also holds state records for appearances at the state meet, top three team finishes, sectional titles, and regional titles.

Activities
Fremd sponsors 60 clubs and activities ranging from cultural and artistic to academic and technological. Among the activities which are chapters or affiliates of more nationally notable groups are: BPA, Chess, Robotics, FCCLA, Model UN, Tri-M Music Honor Society, National Honor Society, Vikettes (Colorguard), and National Science Bowl.Five activities have won their respective IHSA sponsored state competition:

Debate: 2004–2005 (Lincoln-Douglas)
Drama: 1969–1970
Group Interpretation: 2014–2015
Journalism: 2007–2008, 2011–2012
Scholastic Bowl: 2005–06The Fremd Vikettes have won state titles in Team Dance Illinois, earning a First Place State Championship in 2010, 2011, and 2012, and Second Place State Titles in 2013 and 2014 for their flag/colorguard performances.
Each year, William Fremd High School hosts Writers Week, which has brought more than 200 writers to the Fremd campus since 1995 to share their work and philosophy on the writing process. Distinguished guest presenters have included Billy Collins, Gwendolyn Brooks, Nobel Laureate Leon Lederman; journalists Rick Bragg, Dana Kozlov, Burt Constable, and Eric Zorn; novelists Jane Hamilton, Raymond Benson, Rosellen Brown, Harry Mark Petrakis, and Frederik Pohl; poets Nikki Giovanni, Naomi Shihab Nye, and poetry slam creator Marc Smith; screenwriters Bill Kelly and Craig J. Nevius; and sportswriters Dan Roan and Mike Imrem. Presenters also include selected Fremd students and faculty.

Notable alumni
Born of Osiris is a progressive metalcore/deathcore band whose members Cameron Losch, Austin Krause, Ronnie Canizaro, Joe Buras, David Da Rocha, Lee McKinney, and Matt Pantelis met at and attended Fremd. Their third LP, Tomorrow We Die Alive, peaked at #27 on the Billboard 200 chart.
Eric Bradley is a Los Angeles-based guitarist, singer, and songwriter.
brandUn DeShay is a rapper and record producer, has produced for former Young Money artist Curren$y, Chance the Rapper, Mac Miller and Odd Future Wolf Gang Kill Them All.
Leslie Erganian is an artist and television correspondent for the Hallmark Channel.
Jasen Fisher is a former child actor who co-starred in Parenthood, The Witches, and Hook.
Chris Fleming is an international TV host and paranormal investigator on Dead Famous: Ghostly Encounters, which aired 2004–2007 on The Biography Channel; also co-hosted episodes of A&E Network Psychic Kids 2009–2010 and appeared on such shows as Larry King, Ghost Hunters, Ghost Adventures, The Haunted, and Paranormal Challenge.
Ryan Hartman currently plays for NHL's Minnesota Wild, and previously played for the Chicago Blackhawks.
Todd Hundley, two-time All-Star Major League Baseball catcher (1990–2003), playing most of his career with the New York Mets; briefly held single-season home run record for catchers; graduated Class of 1987.
Eric Leonard is a professional soccer midfielder who currently plays for Forward Madison FC of the USL League One.
Robert Lorenz is an Academy Award-nominated movie producer and assistant director known for his collaborations with Clint Eastwood (Letters from Iwo Jima, Mystic River, Space Cowboys, Changeling, Million Dollar Baby, Gran Torino).
Ted Nugent is a musician and pro-gun activist with several multi-platinum albums.
Bette Otto-Bliesner named a notable alumni in 2008, climate scientist and one of the lead authors on assessment reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, graduated class of 1968
Kris Myers is a drummer for the rock/jam band Umphrey's McGee.
Chris Perez played professional football in the NFL and Canadian Football League.
Mark Robinson is a drummer and business owner; notable acts include the Jonas Brothers, Kenny Chesney and Keith Urban; owner of Storyboard Records, an independent record label out of Atlanta.
Jim Schwantz is a former NFL linebacker (1992, 1994–98), primarily with the Dallas Cowboys, winning a Super Bowl ring in Super Bowl XXX; in 2009, he was elected mayor of Palatine; graduated Class of 1988.
Mallory Snyder is an actress/model who was featured on The Real World 13.
Mari-Rae Sopper was a gymnastics coach and Judge Advocate General's Corps lawyer who was a victim of the September 11 attacks as a passenger on hijacked American Airlines Flight 77.
Mike Tauchman is an outfielder for the Chicago Cubs in major league baseball. Graduated class of 2009.
Scott Tolzien is a quarterback for the NFL's Indianapolis Colts; led Wisconsin Badgers to 2010 Big Ten Conference co-championship and Rose Bowl; graduated Class of 2006.

Gallery
Passage 9:
Atlantic Community High School
Atlantic Community High School (also known as Atlantic and ATL and formerly called Seacrest High School) is a public high school located in Delray Beach, Florida, United States. It is part of the School District of Palm Beach County.  Known for its academics, many students attend due to the school's International Baccalaureate program and its ranking as a top-rated school for many years. In the 2010 Newsweek ranking of America's best high schools, Atlantic High ranked 89th.  In 2005, the school moved to its current location and added a freshman academy and a construction-oriented magnet program.

History
Atlantic Community High School, originally named Seacrest High School, was built in 1949 as a racially segregated school for white students in Delray Beach and Boynton Beach, Florida. African-American students living in the area attended Carver High School, which later became Carver Middle School and is now the Delray Beach Full Service Center. The school began the process of desegregation in 1961 when Yvonne Lee entered the school, one of only four African-American students attending otherwise all white schools in Palm Beach County that year. Seacrest remained almost all white, and Carver remained all African-American, until 1970, when Carver High School was closed and its student body merged with that of Seacrest, which was renamed Atlantic High School. The school adopted the colors of Seacrest High School (Green and White) and the mascot of Carver High School (the eagle). It kept Seacrest High's old location along Seacrest Boulevard. In 1989, the school became an International Baccalaureate World School. In 2005, the school moved to its current location on Atlantic Avenue. In 2011, Kathleen Weigel was promoted from principal of the school to the new district position of Assistant Superintendent of Professional Growth. Weigel, who was principal for more than 10 years was replaced by Bear Lakes Middle School principal Anthony Lockhart.

Student demographics
There were 2324 students enrolled in Atlantic Community High School in the 2015–2016 school year. Fifty-three percent of the students were female. The student body was 56% African-American, 21% white, 13% Hispanic, 6% Asian-American, 3% multiracial, and less than 1% each Native American and Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander.

Academics and magnet programs
School ratings
The school is rated annually by the Florida Comprehensive Assessment Test.

International Baccalaureate
Atlantic is home to one of the five International Baccalaureate (also known as IB) high school programs of Palm Beach County (the others being Forest Hill Community High School, Pahokee High School, Suncoast High School, and William T. Dwyer High School) and caters to students living in the southern parts of the district.

Construction Academy
Atlantic's construction academy was added to the school beginning in fall 2005. The students of the academy designed and built a house called the "Eagle's Nest" (after the school mascot) for charity in collaboration with the city of Delray Beach. The groundbreaking ceremony for the project kick-off was held in December 2005. It is a three bedroom, two bath house, 1,500 square feet (140 m2).On October 25, 2010, the Construction Academy broke ground on a new house called "Eagle's Nest 2". The house is to be a "green" house and the design incorporates aspects of a green building, using green construction material design principles. It too is being done in collaboration with the city of Delray Beach.

Extracurricular activities
Athletics
Atlantic participates in the 8A athletic division of the FHSAA. The school fields teams in 43 sports including football, basketball, baseball, swimming, soccer, softball, tennis, golf, bowling, wrestling, volleyball, cross country, track and field, weightlifting, and flag football among others. The Atlantic Boys' Baseball Team won the 13-7A District Championship against Dwyer on April 24, 2014. The Atlantic Boys' soccer team made it into the 4A state final four in the 2013–14 season. In 2015, Atlantic added a lacrosse team, both Boys and Girls. They ended up playing their inaugural season that year. In the 2015–16 season, the undefeated Eagles football team won the 10-8A District Championship against the undefeated Boca Raton Bobcats on October 30, 2015, in a rivalry matchup, and in 2017 they competed in the state championships.

JROTC
Atlantic is home to the Eagle Battalion of the Army Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps.

Clubs
Atlantic supports a wide variety of clubs, including Mu Alpha Theta, Academic Games, ACE, French National Honors Society, Black Student Union, Literary Club, Art Club, International Culture Club,  Science Club / Science Olympiad, Blood Drive, People for Animal Welfare (PAW), Jewish Forum, Muslim Student Association, Model UN, We the People, Robotics Club, Drama Club, Key Club, and chapters of the National Honor Society, Spanish National Honor Society and Rho Kappa Social Studies Honor Society.

Notable alumni
Bobby Butler after playing at Florida State went on to play for the Atlanta Falcons throughout the eighties and early nineties.
David Clowney, wide receiver played one year for the Carolina Panthers and four years for the New York Jets.
Brandon Flowers, defensive back played for the San Diego Chargers and the Kansas City Chiefs of the National Football League currently a free agent.
Orlando Franklin, right tackle for the San Diego Chargers started career with the Denver Broncos.
Mandy Freeman, professional soccer player for NY/NJ Gotfham FC and 10th pick overall at the 2017 NWSL College Draft
Jayron Hosley, a cornerback played four years with the New York Giants currently a free agent.
Omar Jacobs, fifth-round draft pick of the Pittsburgh Steelers in the 2006 NFL Draft, and former quarterback for the Berlin Thunder in NFL Europe.
Ricardo Jordan, former MLB player (Toronto Blue Jays, Philadelphia Phillies, New York Mets, Cincinnati Reds)
Preston Parker, wide receiver played for Tampa Bay Buccaneers and the New York Giants currently a free agent.
Rick Rhoden, former MLB player (Los Angeles Dodgers, Pittsburgh Pirates, New York Yankees, Houston Astros)
Mike Rumph, former cornerback for the St. Louis Rams of the NFL. Currently the cornerbacks coach for the Miami Hurricanes football team
Passage 10:
Blue Valley West High School
Blue Valley West High School is a fully accredited public high school located in Overland Park, Kansas, United States, and one of five high schools by Blue Valley USD 229 school district, and has a current enrollment of approximately 1,280 students. The principal is Katherine  Bonnema. The school mascot is the Jaguar and the school colors are red, black, and silver. In the 2013 Newsweek rankings of the top high schools in America, Blue Valley West was ranked 1st in the state of Kansas and 439th in the nation.Blue Valley West High School opened in August 2001 in order to help educate the increasing population of Overland Park. It was the fourth high school in the Blue Valley Unified School District to open, preceded by Blue Valley Northwest High School in 1993. Blue Valley West is a member of the Kansas State High School Activities Association and offers a variety of sports programs. Athletic teams compete in the 6A division and are known as the "Jaguars". Extracurricular activities are also offered in the form of performing arts, school publications, and clubs.

History
Blue Valley West High School opened in August 2001 in order to help educate the increasing population of Overland Park. It was the fourth high school in the Blue Valley Unified School District to open, preceded by Blue Valley Northwest High School in 1993, and followed by Blue Valley Southwest High School in 2010.

Academics
The school offers 17 Advanced Placement classes, foreign language in Spanish and French, and performing and visual arts classes, among others. The Journalism department produces The Spotlight(newspaper) and The Illumination(yearbook). Its broadcasting class produces Jagged Edge TV. The class of 2013 achieved an average score of 1828 on the SAT and 25 on the ACT.

Extracurricular activities
The Jaguars compete in the Eastern Kansas League and are classified as a 6A-5A school according to the KSHSAA. Throughout its history, Blue Valley West has won several state championships in various sports. Many graduates have gone on to participate in collegiate athletics. In the 2006–2007 school year the school won 2 state championships, was runner up for another, and had 4 other teams qualify for the state tournament. In the 2007 calendar year, BV West won the state title in football, boys' basketball, and baseball. This three-peat was the first of its kind in the history of KSHSAA competition.

Athletics
Football
The Blue Valley West Jaguar football team has become a contender in Kansas 6A football. The team's main rivals are Blue Valley High School and Saint Thomas Aquinas High School. Blue Valley West and Blue Valley have also developed a rivalry. Blue Valley West won the 2007 Eastern Kansas League title and went on to win the Kansas 5A State Championship on November 24, 2007, with an undefeated 13–0 season.

Boys' basketball
The boys basketball team won their first state title during the 2006–2007 school year.Bishop Miege and Saint Thomas Aquinas are the basketball team's two primary rivals.

Golf
The Jaguars have won three team state titles. In 2002, the team won its first 5A state championship. This was followed by 6A state championships in 2006 and 2013.

Baseball
The baseball team won the Eastern Kansas League (EKL) title every year from the school's opening in 2001 to 2006, and did not lose a single game in conference until 2006. The baseball team won state championships in 2007 and 2022.

Girls' Bowling
The girls' bowling team was established during the 2011-2012 winter sports season to add more sports available to girls in the school.

Performing arts
The school has a theater group that presents three shows a year as part of the school curriculum. Choir programs offered include concert choir, choraliers, chorale and chamber. The last three of which require an audition.

Band
Blue Valley West has a competitive marching band, a concert band, a symphonic band, and a symphonic wind ensemble. The competitive marching band won the Kansas Bandmasters Association Marching Band Championship and also placed top 25 in the Bands of America St. Louis Super Regional Championship in the 2017–18 and 2018-19 school years.

Notable alumni
Matt Besler (Class of 2005), MLS player for Sporting Kansas City
Andrew Gachkar (Class of 2007), former NFL player for several teams
Madison Lilley (Class of 2017), professional volleyball player and member of U.S. national team
Shannon Vreeland (Class of 2010), gold medalist in the 200 Freestyle Relay at 2012 Summer Olympics
Andrew Wojtanik (Class of 2008), winner of the 2004 National
Geographic Bee

See also
List of high schools in Kansas
List of unified school districts in KansasOther high schools in Blue Valley USD 229 school districtBlue Valley High School in Stilwell
Blue Valley North High School in Overland Park
Blue Valley Northwest High School in Overland Park
Blue Valley Southwest High School in Overland Park
Blue Valley Academy in Overland Park