Passage 1:
Avocado soup
Avocado soup is a fruit soup prepared using avocados as a primary ingredient. Ingredients used in its preparation in addition to ripe avocados can include milk, cream, half-and-half or buttermilk, soup stock or broth, water, lime juice, lemon juice, salt and pepper. Additional ingredients used can include onions, shallots, garlic, hot sauce, cilantro, red pepper, cayenne pepper and cumin, and water can be used to thin the soup. It is enjoyed widely in areas of Mexico as a classic dish.
The avocados are typically puréed or mashed, and sliced, diced or cubed avocado can be used as a garnish. Additional garnishes can include sliced lime, sour cream, chives, crab meat, shrimp and salsa fresca. It can be prepared and served as a cold or hot soup.Avocado soup's color can change as time passes because oxidation causes avocados to brown, but this does not affect the soup's flavor. It can be a relatively easy dish to prepare that does not require a great deal of time.

See also
Avocado § Culinary uses
List of avocado dishes
List of cold soups
List of soups
Passage 2:
Lettuce soup
Lettuce soup is a soup prepared with lettuce as a primary ingredient. It may be prepared with myriad lettuces and other ingredients, and some lettuce soups may use several cultivars of lettuce in their preparation. It is a part of French cuisine and Chinese cuisine. Cream of lettuce soup is a type of lettuce soup prepared using milk or cream. The soup may be served with toast or rolls as a side dish or with the soup atop them. It may be served as an appetizer, a side dish or as a main dish, and may be served hot or cold.

Preparation
Lettuce is a primary ingredient, and several types of lettuce can be used, such as butter lettuce, cos lettuce, Boston lettuce, romaine lettuce, green leaf lettuce and iceberg lettuce, among others. The lettuce may be chopped, torn, shredded or sliced into ribbons. Additional ingredients may include, but are not limited to, chicken stock, beef stock, cream, milk, wine, lemon juice, egg or egg yolk, meats, rice, potato, greens, sorrel, watercress, Swiss chard, escarole, peas, parsley/dried parsley, bread crumbs, onion, shallot, garlic, salt and pepper, among others. Some preparations purée all of the ingredients together, and some preparations are strained in a sieve. Lettuce soup is sometimes served with toast or rolls, either as a side dish or with the soup poured upon it. Sometimes croutons or chopped bacon are used in the dish or to garnish it. In French cuisine, lettuce soup is usually served poured atop thin slices of lightly toasted French bread. Some versions are served cold. Total calories can vary depending on the ingredients used. For example, versions that use milk may have fewer calories than those that use cream.

Dishes
Chinese versions include Cantonese dishes such as "minced chicken with lettuce soup" and "fish with lettuce soup".

See also
Lettuce sandwich
List of Chinese soups
List of French soups and stews
List of soups
List of vegetable soups
Passage 3:
Spinach soup
Spinach soup is a soup prepared using spinach as a primary ingredient. A common dish around the world, the soup can be prepared as a broth-based or cream-based soup, and the latter can be referred to as "cream of spinach soup." In China, a spinach and tofu soup is also known as "emerald and white jade soup"; spinach and tofu represent emerald and white jade respectively, and thus the spinach soup itself can be called "emerald soup". Fresh, canned or frozen spinach can be used, and the spinach can be used whole, puréed or chopped. Additional ingredients can include onion, green onion, carrot, celery, tomatoes, potatoes, lemon juice, olive oil, seasonings, salt and pepper. Spinach soup is typically served hot, but can also be served as a cold soup. Prior to being served, it can be topped or garnished with ingredients such as sour cream and crème fraîche.

Gallery
See also
Passage 4:
Spring soup
Spring soup is a soup made with ingredients that are only in season for a short period during spring. Although asparagus largely characterizes spring soup, spring soup may include just about any spring vegetable added to a broth, chowder, or bisque. Spring soup is popular largely because it includes fresh ingredients not seen for a while by the consumer.

Characteristics
Where winter soups are hearty to "warm and fortify", spring soups aim to celebrate "new skies and freshness" by being "delicate and light, pretty and promising." Spring soups need lighter, brighter tastes and textures than their winter counterparts. A reason for this is that spring soups "capture the essence of the season in a clean-tasting, refreshing broth that showcases the pure flavors" of its ingredients.Ingredients used in spring soup include a purée of pea, asparagus, rapini, and fennel, with asparagus being considered the quintessential spring vegetable to largely characterize spring soup. Spring soups typically show a subtle green color to reflect spring.

History
In 1828, The British Almanac provided housekeepers' information to add spring soup to a July menu. In 1896, the Holland Society of New York published a spring soup recipe that included amontillado, olives, almonds, chicken, and radishes. In 1898, spring soup was defined as a soup having a stock with any spring vegetables added that have first been parboiled in water, with the soup often colored with caramel.

See also
List of vegetable soups

Notes
Passage 5:
Tidewater region
Tidewater refers to the north Atlantic Plain region of the United States.

Definition
Culturally, the Tidewater region usually includes the low-lying plains of southeast Virginia, northeastern North Carolina, southern Maryland and the Chesapeake Bay. Speaking geographically, however, it covers about 50,000 square miles, from New York's Long Island in the north to the southernmost edge of North Carolina in the south, an area that includes the state of Delaware and the Delmarva Peninsula.
The cultural Tidewater region got its name from the effects of the changing tides on local rivers, sounds, and the ocean. The area has a centuries-old cultural heritage that sets the Tidewater region apart from the adjacent inland parts of the United States, especially with respect to its distinctive dialects of English, which are gradually disappearing, along with its islands and its receding shoreline.

Geography
The tidewater region developed when sea level rose after the last ice age, resulting in the flooding of river valleys in the coastal plain. Such flooded river valleys now make up the tidewater since tides continue to affect water levels far inland, in some cases all the way west to the Fall Line. It is generally flat and low, with large expanses near the tidal shorelines composed of tidal marsh and swamp. Much of the area is covered with pocosin and the higher areas are used for agricultural farmlands. Geographically, in North Carolina and Virginia the Tidewater area is the land between the Suffolk Scarp and the Atlantic Ocean. In Maryland the Tidewater area is the flooded river areas below the Fall Line.  The Hampton Roads area of Virginia is considered to be  a Tidewater region.  Southern Maryland and the Eastern Shore, parts of Delaware round out the northern part of the region on the Chesapeake and Delaware Bays.
The term tidewater may be correctly applied to all portions of any area, including Virginia, where the water level is affected by the tides (more specifically, where the water level rises when the tide comes in). In the case of Virginia, the Tidewater region includes the land east of the Fall Line, the natural border with the Piedmont Region. It includes Hampton Roads, the rest of the Virginia Peninsula, the Middle Peninsula, the Northern Neck, and the Eastern Shore.
Planters in the early American colonies extended their tobacco and peanut productions above the Fall Line, where waterfalls or rapids mark the end of the Tidewater and the beginning of the foothill region known as the Piedmont.Tidewater is host to flora commonly associated with the South Atlantic pine forests and lower Southeast Coastal Plain maritime flora, the latter found primarily in southeastern Virginia.

Regional accents
A distinctive non-rhotic accent of the Old South was spoken in the Tidewater coastal region of Virginia, best associated with upper-class white speakers of the 19th and early 20th centuries. In the actual islands of the Chesapeake themselves, a separate, rhotic accent survives among the locals, sometimes known as "Hoi Toider".

See also
Hampton Roads
Inner Banks
Southern Maryland
Eastern Shore (Maryland)
Eastern Shore (Virginia)
Passage 6:
Peanut soup
Peanut soup or groundnut soup is a soup made from peanuts, often with various other ingredients. It is a staple African cuisine but is also eaten in East Asia (Taiwan), the United States (mainly in Virginia) and other areas around the world. It is also common in some regions, such as Argentina northwest, Bolivia and Peru, where it can sometimes be served with bone meat and hollow short pasta or fries. In Ghana it is often eaten with fufu or omo tuo and is often very spicy. Groundnut soup is also a native soup of the Benin (Edo) people in Nigeria and it is often eaten with pounded yam.  Some of the essential ingredients used in making it are Piper guineense (uziza seed) and Vernonia amygdalina (bitter leaf).It is prepared from groundnut which is mashed into a paste, usually termed as groundnut paste. Groundnut soup is eaten with eba, fufu, banku, kenkey and so on. It is a delicacy that Nigerian, Ghanaian and people in other African countries consume, such as in Sierra Leone. In Ghana, it is known as nkatenkwan in Akan language.

Gallery
See also
Peanut stew
Palm nut soup
List of peanut dishes
List of soups
Passage 7:
She-crab soup
She-crab soup is a rich soup, similar to bisque, made of milk or heavy cream, crab or fish stock, Atlantic blue crab meat, and (traditionally) crab roe, and a small amount of dry sherry added as it is plated. It may be thickened either by heat reduction or with a purée of boiled rice; it may also include such seasonings as mace and shallots or onions.  The soup is a regional specialty from the South Carolina Lowcountry.  It is commonly featured on the menus of many Charleston, South Carolina and Savannah, Georgia restaurants.The soup is named for the "she-crab", or female crab, originally a gravid (roe-carrying) crab, as the orange crab roe comprise a chief ingredient in traditional she-crab soup.  As with turtle soup, other ingredients may be added to the soup or substituted for others, although crabmeat is found in all versions.
Regulations in Maryland and other states restrict the collection of egg-bearing female crabs.

See also
Partan bree
List of cream soups
List of regional dishes of the United States
List of soups
Passage 8:
Syodon
Syodon is an extinct genus of dinocephalian therapsids that lived approximately 267-260 million years ago during the middle Permian period of the Paleozoic era. These therapsids, located in Russia  were initially believed to be true mammals.  Syodon was first named by Stephan Kutorga in 1838. The fossils of these synapsids were first discovered in the Molotov Province region of Russia in limestone beds with a high content of copper. However, scientists believe that these organisms likely come from higher rock beds due to increased specializations in their morphology.

Etymology
The name Syodon is derived from Greek meaning pig's tooth. This name likely stemmed from the protruding canines similar to that of the lower canines of a wild boar.

Diet
Syodon is characterized as a carnivore, likely feeding on small-bodied prey.  They lack the ‘expansion of supraorbital bones over the orbits, which would act as a stress sink’ in certain hypercarniverous species such as thalattosuchian Dakosaurus. This thickened supraorbital regions also found in large theropods would have alleviated cranial stress used for feeding on large prey. Since this adaption is not found in Syodon it is thought they were limited to small animals and prey which they could easily consume with their limited jaw architecture.

Paleobiology
Syodon is characterized by possessing "bulbous" post-canines featuring significant wear facets in adults, whereas juveniles tend to have ‘bladelike’ post canines. The canine of Syodon is highly distinctive and allows it to be distinguished easily. They also possess a large, strongly curved ‘hook-like canine. Syodon also feature a set of smaller, replacement teeth out-of-place from the main palatine tooth row.The snout of Syodon is relatively long narrow compared to the rest of the body. The snout comprises approximately 1/4 the length of the skill. These synapsids reached 1.2 m (4 ft) in length.

See also
List of therapsids
Archaeosyodon
Microsyodon
Passage 9:
Watercress soup
Watercress soup is a soup prepared using the leaf vegetable watercress as a primary ingredient. It may be prepared as a cream soup or as a broth/stock-based soup using vegetable or chicken stock. Additional ingredients used can include vegetables such as potato, leeks, spinach, celery and turnips, cheese, butter, lemon juice, salt and pepper. Watercress soup can be prepared as a puréed soup by mixing the ingredients in a food processor. It can be served hot or cold, and may be garnished with crème fraîche, shaved Parmesan cheese, drizzled olive oil and watercress leaves.

Gallery
See also
Cabbage soup
List of soups
Spinach soup
Vegetable soup
List of vegetable soups
Passage 10:
1996 PW
1996 PW is an exceptionally eccentric trans-Neptunian object and damocloid on an orbit typical of long-period comets but one that showed no sign of cometary activity around the time it was discovered. The unusual object measures approximately 10 kilometers (6 miles) in diameter and has a rotation period of 35.4 hours and likely an elongated shape.

Description
1996 PW orbits the Sun at a distance of 2.5–504 AU once every 4,033 years (semi-major axis of 253 AU). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.99 and an inclination of 30° with respect to the ecliptic.Simulations indicate that it has most likely come from the Oort cloud, with a roughly equal probability of being an extinct comet and a rocky body that was originally scattered into the Oort cloud. The discovery of 1996 PW prompted theoretical research that suggests that roughly 1 to 2 percent of the Oort cloud objects are rocky.1996 PW was first observed on 9 August 1996 by the Near-Earth Asteroid Tracking (NEAT) automated search camera on Haleakala Observatory, Hawaii. It is the first object that is not an active comet discovered on an orbit typical of long-period comets.1996 PW has a rotation period of 35.44±0.02 hours and a double-peaked lightcurve with a high amplitude of 0.44±0.03 magnitude (U=3). Its spectrum is moderately red and featureless, typical of D-type asteroids and bare comet nuclei. Its spectrum suggests an extinct comet. The upper limit on 1996 PW's dust production is 0.03 kg/s.

See also
Extinct comets
List of Solar System objects by greatest aphelion