Passage 1:
Egypt (TV series)
Egypt is a BBC television docudrama serial portraying events in the history of Egyptology from the 18th through early 20th centuries. It originally aired on Sunday nights at 9 pm on BBC1 in 2005. The first two episodes explored the work of Howard Carter and his archaeological quest in Egypt in the early part of the twentieth century. The next two episodes focused on the eccentric explorer "The Great Belzoni" played here by Matthew Kelly. The final two episodes dramatise the discovery and deciphering of the Rosetta Stone by Jean-François Champollion (Elliot Cowan).
The music was recorded by the Warsaw Radio Orchestra and is featured on the CD Timeless Histories by Chappell music, produced by Clare Isaacs.

Production
The series was a major new docudrama series produced by the BBC for the Autumn 2005 schedule.
"The whole idea behind the series was to be able to discover Ancient Egypt through the eyes of Howard Carter – famous for uncovering the tomb of Tutankhamun; The Great Belzoni – an amazing adventurer and explorer; and the scholar Jean-François Champollion, who was the first to decipher the Rosetta Stone and open up the meaning of hieroglyphics."
In order to create a sense of "seeing the treasures of Ancient Egypt for the first time", Dolling and Bradshaw felt it essential to film at the actual archaeological sites referenced in the series.

"We had fantastic help from the Government and a local production crew, they managed to fix it for us to film in areas that, as far as we know, have never been used by other television or film productions."
"Being the first UK TV company to attempt such a project in the most amazing historical sights was very exhilarating, and to be able to return them - with additional sets and some computer imagery - to how they were during the time of the Pharaohs was incredible."
Filming at such invaluable and popular sites created new challenges for the film makers.

"Keeping people out of shot was one — sometimes this was nearing impossible — but we tended to shoot early in the day so disruptions were kept to a minimum. The other was obviously making sure we didn't damage anything, which thankfully we managed!"
"It was difficult keeping such a unique project running so far from home, and it is a tribute to the cast and crew that we managed to succeed. The series really is great and looks fantastic, well worth all the hard work."
The co-production between BBC and The Learning Channel was initially budgeted at around £6.5m but problems filming on location in Egypt, including the weather and illness, meant the producers required another £2million. Post production costs involved in recreating Ancient Egypt meant that the final costs could have resulted in a £5million overspend but the BBC denied this.

"To suggest the overspend is anything in the [range of] £5m is utterly ridiculous — it is simply not true. This was a huge project shot on location in Egypt and, as with any project of such scale, we had contingency funds available to us — so the unavoidable overspend was accommodated for and fully authorised."
"I think it's useful to point out that the cost per hour of Egypt will still be lower than other comparable programmes such as Pompeii, Genghis Khan and Pyramid. In fact, due to the international co-financing, this is actually incredibly good value for money providing full period drama for the budget normally associated with a documentary."
Several multi-media productions were commissioned to tie-in with the series including interactive drama BBC Egypt Interactive, award-winning online-game Death in Sakkara: An Egyptian Adventure, and an interactive exhibition at BBC Birmingham.A companion series Egyptian Journeys with Dan Cruickshank, in which architectural historian Cruickshank travels the country to explore some of the intriguing stories that have emerged from ancient Egypt, was broadcast concurrently on BBC Two.

Reception
Reviews
Sam Wollaston writing about episode one in The Guardian said that he "was expecting to hate this show," fearing it would be "narration interspersed with lame reconstruction," but he was pleased to discover it was, in fact, "a proper drama, with a very decent script and real actors." "And it's a great story, too," he states, although he did not enjoy the re-enactments of the life of Tutankhamun, which he described as "olive-skinned actors with non-speaking parts and an awful lot of eye-liner, wandering around in a semi-darkness lit by flickering candles," and claims were not necessary, "but maybe that will help to sell it to America." He concludes that he is "looking forward to part two."David Liddiment writing in The Guardian complimented the cleverly twinning of this docudrama with the more cerebral Egyptian Journeys with Dan Cruickshank on BBC Two but he points out that this was done during the final stages of the BBC's charter renewal review and insists that the corporation should keep up standards after this process is completed.

Ratings
Episode one (2005-10-30): 7 million viewers (29% audience share).
Episode two (2005-11-06): 6 million viewers (24% audience share).
Episode three (2005-11-13): 5.7 million viewers (23% audience share).
Episode four (2005-11-20): 4.8 million viewers.
Episode five (2005-11-27): 4.5 million viewers (18% audience share).

Episodes
Part one: Howard Carter
The story of the discovery of the tomb of Tutankhamun by Howard Carter and the popular belief in the Curse of the Pharaohs, a supposed result of Carter's disturbing Tutankhamen's resting place. The episodes include short dramatizations of the life of Tutankhamun.

Episode one: The Search for Tutankhamun
Tutankhamun vanished from history in 1324 BC following his hurried burial and the erasure of his name from all monuments. In the winter of 1898 Carter is at the temples of Deir el Bahri recording wall reliefs threatened by a freak storm when he is thrown from his horse and makes a discovery in the sand. Retired Boston lawyer Theodore M. Davis funds Carter's excavation of Queen Hatshepsut's tomb but it is found to be empty and Carter deprived of further funding is reduced to selling his paintings to tourists on the street.
In 1905 Lord Carnarvon arrives in Luxor to convalesce after a road accident and is shown an artifact bearing the cartouche of the mysterious Tutankhamun discovered by Davis on his new dig. Tutankhamun succeeded his heretical father as pharaoh at the age of 8 and was named in honour of Amun to symbolise his mission to restore the old gods and save the empire from turmoil. An inspired Carnarvon employs Carter but they are denied access to the Valley of the Kings for which only Davis has a permit. Amidst the flurry of construction that marked the beginning of Tutankhamun's reign the most important to the boy Pharaoh would have been that of his tomb. An ailing Davis announces his discovery of this, the final Pharaoh's tomb, prior to his retirement. Carter doubts the find and convinces Carnarvon to take up the concession. The methodical and meticulous excavation commences in 1914 but is quickly interrupted by World War I.
The Carnarvons return to Egypt at the end of the war and Carter recommences his excavation but with a continued lack of results leading to doubts that any undiscovered tombs are left in the valley the funding is finally cut in 1922. Tutankhamun's tomb was well concealed to ensure his undisturbed afterlife. Carter convinces Carnarvon to fund one last season during which the tomb is finally unearthed. When the tomb is opened in the presence of Carnarvon and his daughter it is revealed to be the only unplundered pharaoh's tomb in the valley.

Episode two: The Curse of Tutankhamun
In 1922 Carter goes to the Egyptian Antiquities Service in Cairo to announce his discovery but disagrees with Director Pierre Lacau over the clearance and cataloguing of the contents. The discovery revealed a dark time in the history of Egypt and the death of its boy king. Carter assembles an international team of experts to commence the work under the unwelcome scrutiny of Lacau's inspector and the western press. Carnarvon's cavalier attitude to the finds he considers his property starts to infuriate both Carter and Lacau.
As the finds are slowly catalogued and removed Carter becomes close to Carnarvon's daughter Evelyn but his strictness begins to alienate his team. Tutankhamun was married to his own sister but the union failed to produce an heir to secure the future of the kingdom. Stories of the curse begin to circulate as Carter breaks through into the burial chamber to reveal an intact tomb. As Lacau threatens to take over the excavation and several of the experts quit, Carnarvon questions Carter over his leadership and his relationship with Evelyn. When he came of age Tutankhamun took over control of the kingdom from his military advisor Ay only to die from unknown causes shortly thereafter. Carter rushes to Carnarvon's death-bed where the two make-up. Upon Tutankhamun's death Ay seized the throne and married the widowed queen. Carter, disappointed by Evelyn's engagement to another man, returns to continue his work. Tutankhamun's death came before the royal tomb could be completed so he was hastily buried in the tomb Ay had prepared for himself. Lacau takes over the running of the tomb in 1924 when Carter and his team stop work to protest continued Egyptian interference.
The following year Carter is called back by Lacau to reopen the tomb with funding from Lady Carnarvon. The team start to extract the nested coffins revealing one of them to be made of pure gold that confirms the presence of a Pharaoh. The team begin to notice evidence that the burial was done in a hurry as the body itself is finally uncovered. When Ay died without heir a new dynasty took to the throne that erased all references to the Boy King. In 1932 with his work complete Carter leaves the tomb for the last time and hands the key to Lacau.

Cast
Stuart Graham as Howard Carter
Julian Wadham as Lord Carnarvon
Caroline Langrishe as Lady Carnarvon
Alex Weaver as Evelyn Carnarvon
Valentine Pelka as Pierre Lacau
William Hope as Theodore M. Davis
Laurence Fox as Leonard

Part two: The Great Belzoni
The story of Italian engineer and circus strongman Giovanni Belzoni who became the most unlikely Egyptologist the world has ever seen, intercut with Flashbacks to the life of Ramses the Great, in whose footsteps Belzoni would continually stray.

Episode three: The Pharaoh and the Showman
A dissatisfied Belzoni leaves England with his wife, Sarah, and servant, James Curtin, to see the world. Finding themselves destitute in the streets of Cairo after work on an irrigation project falls through, they are rescued by the eccentric John Lewis Bukhardt who introduces them to British Consul Henry Salt. Belzoni is hired to recover the massive Head of Memnon, later revealed to a statue of the Pharaoh Ramesses the Great, as a gift for the British Museum. Arriving in Luxor in 1816 amidst a gold rush of black market antiquities dealers Belzoni finds himself unwelcome.
At the Ramesseum Belzoni examines the head and devises a plan for its removal. The local Caimakan, under advice from Belzoni's French rival Bernardino Drovetti, denies Belzoni's permit and initially refuses to supply labour until threats bring him around. Ramesses marriage to his true love Nefertari was fruitful and secured the family line and the country too was fertile thanks to the annual flooding of the Nile. The approaching flood season however threatens to strand the head in the heart of the flood plain bringing an abrupt halt to Belzoni's mission. When the local labourers finally arrive Belzoni immediately sets to work moving the head using the same techniques its builders had used 3,000 years previous. Belzoni sends the ailing Jim back to Cairo to request a bigger boat so that they can collect even more antiquities and with time running out is forced to take greater risks to get the head to the bank of the Nile.
With the head secured the Belzonis heads south along the Nile to Abu Simbal in uncharted Nubia to expand the collection of antiquities. Ramesses built two temples at Abu Simbal; one dedicated his beloved wife and the other to his military prowess in the first victorious campaign. Belzoni locates the entrance to the Great Temple but finds it blocked, and so forced to head back to Cairo he vows to return to excavate the site the following season.

Episode four: The Temple of the Sands
Belzoni, arriving back in Cairo, is informed by Salt that only the head is to be sent to the British Museum while the rest of the antiquities he has collected are to be kept at the consulate. Salt refuses to fund an excavation at Abu Simbal and Belzoni is sent south again with Salt's secretary William Beechey and a local dealer called Yanni. Belzoni, whilst becalmed at Minya. spots Yenni talking to his French rival Drovetti and hastily rides to Luxor determined to get there first. Arriving to late Belzoni discovers that the entire area licensed to Drovetti and he must dig elsewhere.
Belzoni, guided by the image of Ramesses, digs in an unlicensed area and discovers a perfectly preserved bust. An infuriated Drovetti has the local ruler issue an edict against Belzoni. With no other option Belzoni heads south to the Island of Philae to collect the antiquities he has stored there only to discover upon arrival that the French have ransacked them. Funds arrive from Salt to begin excavation at Abu Simbal and Belzoni heads to the site with two British Royal Navy officers. Work progresses slowly in the shifting desert until Belzoni devises a plan to build a palisade to hold back the sand. With the entrance uncovered the group cautiously enter to view the magnificent interior. Belzoni records every detail of the temple decorations, which celebrate the capture of Kadesh that made Ramesses a great warrior king. Back in Luxor Belzoni, reunited with Sarah and Jim, is threatened by Drevetti but undeterred he heads deep into the western hills where he enters the Valley of the Kings. Belzoni learns from Yanni and Beechey that Salt is selling off the antiquities he collects rather than donating them to the British Museum.
Persuaded to go on with his explorations Belzoni constructs a battering ram to break through the thick walls of the valley side and open up an undiscovered tomb. Defying booby-traps Belzoni pushes on into the lavish interior of the tomb where he enters the burial chamber of the Pharaoh Seti I. It was here upon the death of his father that Ramesses started his reign, which would bring peace and prosperity to Egypt. The discovery of Belzoni's Tomb secures the Egyptologist's reputation and makes him a celebrity in his adopted home of London where the British Museum would later honour him.

Cast
Matthew Kelly as Belzoni
Lynsey Baxter as Sarah Belzoni
Nevan Finnigan as James Curtin
Robert Portal as Henry Salt
Richard Dempsey as William Beechey
Thomas Lockyer as John Lewis Bukhardt
Joseph Long as Bernardino Drovetti

Part three: Champollion
Jean-François Champollion uses the Rosetta Stone to unlock the mysteries of the lost civilisation of Ancient Egypt which had been closed off to Europeans for centuries prior to the invasion of Napoleon Bonaparte in 1798. The stone, discovered by the French in 1799, had been created as a work of propaganda by the Greek-speaking Pharaoh Ptolemy V to establish his place in Egyptian cosmology and flashbacks are included to explain this belief system.

Episode five: The Mystery of the Rosetta Stone
The young Champollion, encouraged to develop his gift for languages by his elder brother, becomes obsessed with deciphering hieroglyphs as a means to telling the age of the world and revenging France against the British who had confiscated the stone in 1801. When Alexander the Great had conquered Egypt, he had fuelled local resentment by bringing in a Greek speaking elite to rule. Their descendant King Tutankhamun had commissioned a series of stones written in Greek, common Egyptian and hieroglyphs for temples across the land to extol his virtues and underline his claim to the throne.
Champollion studies under Silvestre de Sacy in Paris but finds the professor who had himself failed decipher hieroglyphs dismissive of further attempts believing them to be symbolic rather than a true language. English scientist Thomas Young uses mathematics to decipher the inscription like a code whilst Champollion believing hieroglyphs to be representative of a spoken language attempts to relate them to the Coptic language of Egypt's ancient Christian communities. Young makes a number of breakthroughs including the spelling of Ptolemy in hieroglyphs while Champollion finds work as assistant professor at the University of Grenoble. France is thrown into political turmoil in 1815 following defeat at the Battle of Waterloo and the republican Champollion is arrested for sedition and exiled to Figeac until 1821. Eccentric Egyptologist Giovanni Belzoni discovers an obelisk inscribed with the name of Cleopatra in Greek and hieroglyphs at Philae and sends it back to Young in England.
Young makes a mistake in translating the obelisk setting back his work whilst Champollion using a copy of the obelisk creates a hieroglyphic alphabet that he uses along with Coptic to translate the name of Ramesses the Great from sketches of Abu Simbal. Champollion's discovery arouses the suspicions of the Catholic Church who fear hieroglyphs might disprove the historical accuracy of the Bible. Young wishes Champllion good luck in proving his theories but Sacy and the Church are determined to stop him.

Episode six: The Secrets of the Hieroglyphs
Champollion is determined to travel to Egypt to prove his theory but poor and jobless he is reduced to buying up whatever scraps of papyrus he can find and this obsession alienates his wife. The Dendera zodiac purchased by the French King Charles X threatens to challenge the biblical chronologies of church scholars, as it is believed by some to date to before the Great Flood of 2349 BC. Champollion is called in to confirm Sacy's dating of the antiquity to around 2000 BC; he disputes Sacy's dating but not Church authorities by dating it to some 2,000 years later than that during the Roman period.
Champollion is sent to Turin by the King to value a collection put up for sale by the French Consul to Egypt Bernardino Drovetti. Prior to his departure Champollion's wife announces that she is pregnant and she is not pleased by his new job. Champollion builds a strong reputation for himself in Italy even being invited for an audience with Pope Leo XII. Returning to Paris with a large collection of antiquities for the King he is put in charge of the Egyptian collection at the Louvre. The King finally agrees to fund Champollion's expedition to Egypt on the proviso that he does not publish any finds that contradict the teachings of the Church. Champollion, arriving in 1828, starts by studying the Great Pyramid at Giza discovering it to be a tomb built for the Pharaoh Khufu around 2560 BC. At Saqqara he finds the site largely stripped by dealers but in a forgotten tomb he discovers ancient hieroglyphs he translates to prove his theories. Eager to understand the Ancient Egyptians he pushes on to the ancient capital of Thebes where at the sprawling Temple of Karnak he reads the story of Ramesses the Great and the battle against the Hittites at Kadesh.
At Belzoni's Tomb in the Valley of the Kings the ailing Champollion reads the story of Pharaoh Seti I and learns of the burial rites of Pharaohs. He is thus able to comprehend the belief system of the Ancient Egyptians for the first time. Champollion dies back in France 18 months later but his legacy allows Egyptologist to comprehend the meaning behind monuments such as the Great Pyramid of Giza and to decipher papyri that lead to such discoveries as the Tomb of Tutankhamun by Howard Carter.

Cast
Elliot Cowan as Jean-François Champollion
Stuart Bunce as Jacques-Joseph Champollion

Media information
DVD release
Released on Region 2 DVD by BBC Video on 2006-02-06.Also released on Region 1 DVD (2 discs, but does not include the bonus 'Pyramid') by BBC Worldwide 2006-05-23

Companion book
The 2005 companion book to the series was written by author and archaeologist Joyce Tyldesley expands on the series to tell the full story of the discoveries and the colourful characters who made them.

Selected editions
Tyldesley, Joyce (6 October 2005). Egypt, How A Lost Civilization Was Rediscovered. BBC Books (hardcover). ISBN 978-0-563-52257-7.
Tyldesley, Joyce (1 June 2003). Egypt, How A Lost Civilization Was Rediscovered. BBC Books (paperback). ISBN 978-0-563-49381-5.
Tyldesley, Joyce (18 September 2005). Egypt, How A Lost Civilization Was Rediscovered. UC Press (hardcover). ISBN 978-0-520-25020-8.

See also
Building the Great Pyramid
Passage 2:
HappyHolograms
"#HappyHolograms" is the tenth and final episode in the eighteenth season of the American animated television series South Park.  The 257th episode overall, it was written and directed by series co-creator and co-star Trey Parker. The episode premiered on Comedy Central in the United States on December 10, 2014. It is the second part of the two-part season finale which began with the previous episode, "#REHASH". The episode makes multiple references to earlier episodes over the season, as well as to previous seasons, while mainly lampooning the trend of culture constantly making trending topics with no actual relevance. It also lampoons news events such as the death of Eric Garner, the shooting of Michael Brown, the sexual assault allegations against Bill Cosby, the use of celebrity holograms, and generationism. YouTuber PewDiePie appears as himself, continuing his story line from the previous episode.

Plot
Kyle Broflovski, feeling that the popularity of Let's Plays are leading to a countrywide "crisis", sends out a message on Twitter to help families come together. In response, Bill Cosby visits Kyle and invites him to star in a primetime television special. Kyle agrees, unaware that Cosby is a hologram. The special, a product of the conspiracy between Randy's former producer and Eric Cartman, is planned to feature various celebrities, holograms, and Cartman's commentary. The producer's staff, however, feel he has given too much power to Cartman, whose growing popularity results in his commentary window pervading throughout the world. Upon seeing an advertisement for the special, Kyle is furious that his idea has become a social media project, while Stan Marsh is upset at his father Randy's supposed involvement.
Randy and Sharon Marsh file a police report on the hologram of Randy's secret identity Lorde, but the police are skeptical. A patrolman catches the rogue Michael Jackson hologram, but cannot physically apprehend him. Randy and Jackson learn of the special and agree to work together. When the Tupac Shakur hologram sent to capture Jackson appears at the police station, Randy and Jackson escape to the Marsh home. Randy learns that Stan and Kyle were taken hostage by the producer and is confronted by Tupac.
When Kyle questions the producer, he explains that when he became a grandfather, one day he asked his grandson who his favorite celebrity was, the grandson's response being PewDiePie. Distressed, the producer reveals his true intent—to assimilate the younger generation's culture into his own. Stan calls out the producer for being "such a grandpa", to the latter's frustration. When Cartman's window appears before the producer, he attempts to have him shut down, but Cartman's power has grown to the point where he has reached "trend-scendence".
As Cartman continues appearing on screens throughout the world, he states that he is now "trends-gender" and therefore must be given his bathroom, his motivation for being involved. Tupac and Jackson unite against the producer and storm the restaurant where he has the hostages. As Jackson fatally shoots the producer, Kyle, realizing that world's population can see one another, speaks out to his brother, Ike, apologizing for being a "grandpa". He accepts that Ike will develop his generational interests, and admits his jealousy at Ike being a fan of CartmanBrah. Ike and his friends create a new trend, #webelieveinyou, which Kyle urges the audience to spread. In response, PewDiePie arrives and overpowers Cartman.
In the aftermath, Kyle's family has agreed to spend one hour together each night, though Stan is still confused over the previous events. Kyle suggests that they may never understand it, and further says that at least YouTube celebrities are authentic, having never been marketed to the public by corporations and entertainment industries. PewDiePie appears, grateful for the people of South Park.

Production
The episode contains numerous references to previous episodes in the series, mostly in connection to Randy Marsh's double life as Lorde. Customer service employee "Steve" returns from "Grounded Vindaloop", as does the Washington Redskins logo from "Go Fund Yourself", while Cartman's desire for his own bathroom is from "The Cissy".On the DVD audio commentary, Trey Parker and Matt Stone, in hindsight, thought the story would have been better off split up into three episodes and not two, mainly because there was a lot of content left that they wanted to use but not enough time. The original plan was to make the story three episodes long but they settled for two.The episode makes numerous references to the deaths of Eric Garner and Michael Brown, as well as the sexual assault allegations against Bill Cosby.

Reception
The episode received a B rating from The A.V. Club's Dan Caffrey, though he stated that "It was rushed, it was messy, and it may have been just a bit too much story for South Park, even for a two-parter."Max Nicholson of IGN gave it a 6.8 out of 10, and stated "the climax of the entire episode (and arguably the season)...didn't tie everything together in the way that it could (and should) have."Chris Longo from Den of Geek gave the episode 4 out of 5 stars, stating the episode "was incoherent, hilarious madness—its own artform." Longo's article also noted that, in real life, the topic #IHateCartmanBrah became the top trending topic worldwide on Twitter.
Passage 3:
List of Girls und Panzer episodes
Girls und Panzer is a 2012 Japanese anime series produced by Actas. The series takes place in a world where girls take up sensha-dō (戦車道, lit. "the way of the tank") or "tankery" in the English dub, the art of operating tanks, which focuses on a girl named Miho Nishizumi and her friends as they participate in their school's sensha-dō program. The series aired in Japan between October 9, 2012, and December 25, 2012, although due to production delays, the final two episodes were postponed and were replaced with recap episodes. The final two episodes aired in March 2013. Original video animation episodes are included with the Blu-ray/DVD releases. The opening theme is "DreamRiser" by ChouCho whilst the ending theme is "Enter Enter MISSION!" performed by Mai Fuchigami, Ai Kayano, Mami Ozaki, Ikumi Nakagami and Yuka Iguchi. The series is licensed in North America by Sentai Filmworks.

Episode list
OVAs
Home media release
Japanese
English
Notes
Passage 4:
The Forgotten (TV series)
The Forgotten is an American crime drama television series which premiered on September 22, 2009 on ABC. On November 9, 2009, ABC ordered five additional episodes of the series, bringing the first season's total to eighteen episodes. The final two episodes of The Forgotten aired on July 3, 2010.The Forgotten was rated R16 in New Zealand for graphic violence and sex scenes.

Premise
A group of dedicated, amateur detectives, the members of the Forgotten Network (referred to in the pilot as the Identity Network), attempt to reconstruct the pieces of these John and Jane Does' lives from what little evidence is left behind. Each episode is narrated by a "body" who watches the team as they pursue the tantalizingly difficult challenge of figuring out who this victim once was. Why would anyone volunteer for such a grim task? As new recruit Tyler Davies quickly discovers, each of the members of the team has his or her own reasons for volunteering for the Network. Alex Donovan is a former cop, whose then eight-year-old daughter was kidnapped two years ago and has never been found. Lindsey Drake, the woman who runs the network from her home, is a virtual recluse whose husband is a convicted murderer. Walter Bailey does stake outs—when he is not blowing his cover. Candace Butler hates her day job. She also happens to have a special gift for putting people at ease—even the prickly Tyler, a talented sculptor with a background in forensics, a medical school drop-out, who initially joined the team to fulfill a sentence of 200 hours of community service after being apprehended defacing buildings.

Cast
Christian Slater as Alex Donovan
Heather Stephens as Lindsey Drake (episodes 1–13)
Michelle Borth as Candace Butler
Anthony Carrigan as Tyler Davies
Bob Stephenson as Walter Bailey
Rochelle Aytes as Grace Russell
Elisha Cuthbert as Maxine Denver (episodes 12–17)

Episodes
In addition to the 17 regular episodes produced with the cast listed, an "Original Pilot" was previously filmed with different actors in some of the roles. Rupert Penry-Jones played Alex Donovan, and Reiko Aylesworth played Linda Manning (replaced by Heather Stephens as Lindsey Drake).

Pilot
Season 1 (2009–10)
International broadcasting
Passage 5:
List of Boston Public episodes
Boston Public, an American drama television series created by David E. Kelley debuted on Fox on October 23, 2000. The series was canceled during its fourth season, and Fox aired its final episode on January 30, 2004, although two episodes were left unaired by the network. The final two episodes were subsequently aired on March 1 and 2, 2005 on TV One. The series centers on the teachers and students of Winslow High School, a fictional public high school located in Boston, Massachusetts.

Series overview
Episodes
Season 1 (2000–01)
Season 2 (2001–02)
Season 3 (2002–03)
Season 4 (2003–04)
See also
List of The Practice episodes – includes crossover episode "The Day After"
Passage 6:
Survivor Africa: Panama
Survivor Africa: Panama is the first pan-regional season of the television show Survivor to air in central or southern Africa and it included contestants from the countries of Botswana, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Namibia, Nigeria, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. The show was broadcast on the channel M-Net from September 3, 2006 to November 19, 2006 over twelve episodes. The host for the season was Anthony Oseyemi The grand prize was $100,000 US Dollars and was won by  Tsholofelo ‘Tebby’ Gasennelwe.

Contestants
Season summary
The contestants for this season were initially split into two tribes: Embera, named after Panama's semi-nomadic and heavily body-painted tribe, whose buffs were blue, and Kuna, named after a traditionally matriarchal and politically organised people of Panama, whose buffs were red. During the pre-merge portion of the game, Embera won a majority of the reward and immunity challenges, while Kuna saw their numbers dwindle from six to three. When the tribes merged into the Nagual tribe (wearing yellow buffs), their original tribal alliances remained, and the former members of Embera quickly voted out Yaga and Nana, leaving Meti as the only former Kuna member left in the game. Following the elimination of Nana, Tebby approached Meti and Nike about forming an all-girl alliance. This new alliance, along with Jeremiah, voted out Leonard and the leader of the former Embera alliance, Derrick. When it came time for the final four, the contestants competed in two challenges in order to determine the final two. The first of these challenges was the "plank" challenge. As Meti was the first person to fall off the plank, she was eliminated from the game. As Tebby was the last person to fall off the plank, she automatically advanced to the final two. The other two contestants competed in a second challenge which Jeremiah won, advancing him to the final two while Nike was eliminated. Ultimately, it was Tebby from Botswana who won this season over Jeremiah with a jury vote of 5-1.

Voting history
Passage 7:
Good Bye, Radar
"Good Bye, Radar" is a two-part episode of the television series M*A*S*H that served as the fourth and fifth episodes of the show's eighth season and the 177th and 178th episodes of the series. Part 1 aired on October 8, 1979, with Part 2 airing one week later. The two episodes aired as a one-hour special during off-season reruns on May 12, 1980. As the title of the episode implies, these were the final two episodes to feature Gary Burghoff in his role as Corporal Radar O'Reilly.
These episodes were originally intended to be aired as season seven's finale, but CBS and the producers convinced Burghoff to return for the beginning of season eight. To make up for his imminent departure, Burghoff received a special credit in the opening of the first six episodes of the season, immediately following William Christopher's, which read "also starring Gary Burghoff as Radar". For the first three episodes of season eight, Burghoff’s absence was explained by Radar’s having been sent to Tokyo for some R&R. In two of the three episodes, Burghoff made cameo appearances.
In addition to Burghoff’s departure, these episodes marked the final appearance of Johnny Haymer in his role as Staff Sergeant Zelmo Zale. With the departure of Radar, Hawkeye Pierce, Margaret Houlihan, and Father Mulcahy were the only three characters left on the series who had any connection to the novel and film from which M*A*S*H was derived (with Henry Blake being killed off at the end of season three, Trapper John McIntyre discharged between seasons three and four, and Frank Burns being sent back to the States after indecent conduct on R&R following Major Houlihan's marriage, at the start of season six).

Synopsis
Part 1
A typical night in the 4077th OR is underway, with the surgeons hard at work on patients. Something goes wrong, however, when the camp's primary generator goes out. Hawkeye gets his finger jammed in a rib spreader, severely spraining it.
Meanwhile, Klinger, who is the acting company clerk, goes outside to find out what's wrong with the generator. Seeing his rival Sergeant Zale at the controls, Klinger instantly assumes Zale doesn't know what he's doing and goes to crank up the camp's backup generator- only to find that it's been stolen. The primary generator then blows out, leaving the M*A*S*H without power.
With the unit's power now completely gone, two concerns become immediate: a patient of B.J. Hunnicutt's, who has a stomach problem (which they fix by using an old style suction machine developed by Dr. Owen Wangensteen), and what to do with all the food in the camp (which Col. Potter fixes by having a smorgasbord for all the people in the area).
Meanwhile, Radar is about set to return from his R&R in Tokyo, but has been bumped from his scheduled flight by a general's cardboard cutout. During his wait for his plane, he meets an attractive nurse, who is going home to Lancaster, Missouri. Hearing that, and noticing that she is not too far from the same area of the U.S. as he is, Radar and the nurse instantly hit it off. However, before they can get anywhere, Radar is placed on another flight, and despite his arguing with the officer in charge of booking, has to leave.  He tells the nurse that they should try to find each other when they get home.  After a goodbye kiss, Radar is off, back to the 4077th.
After getting bumped from a jeep by some stranded GIs and having to ride back to the 4077th in an ox-drawn cart, Radar returns, tired and hungry, to a huge ovation from the people in the camp- especially Klinger, who has been waiting for Radar to return more than anyone. Immediately the camp wants Radar to find a generator, but Radar doesn't want to right away, wanting a shower and a meal. After some cajoling, Radar finally agrees to search for a generator, only to find the same luck that Klinger has had...no generators to be found.
Later that night, while Radar is drowning his sorrows in the officers' club with his favorite Grape Nehi, Col. Potter enters the swamp with tragic news—Radar's Uncle Ed, who had been helping his mother run their farm in Iowa for many years, has died. After breaking the news to Radar, who is trying to cope with it while also doing his job, Col. Potter tells Radar that he needs to go home to help his mother, and to get a DA-7 Hardship Discharge form for himself and fill it out. Hawkeye and B.J. congratulate Radar on going home, and Radar is happy too...he thinks.

Part 2
The next day begins with Klinger desperately trying to get Radar to help him find a generator and get the office back in shape. Radar, however, does not want to hear it. He tells Klinger that no one helped him when he first became company clerk, and Klinger was going to have to learn on his own. Finally, Radar does help Klinger try and con a generator out of someone (with some help from Major Winchester, who convinces Radar to help Klinger). Although Radar is unsuccessful in getting a generator, incoming wounded inspires Radar to order a bunch of jeeps and trucks to come to the 4077th- resulting in outdoor surgery, by headlights!
After that, and seeing Hawkeye operate with his injured finger (which still is bothering him), Radar decides to fight his discharge, claiming that he is more needed at the 4077th. After getting into an argument with Hawkeye, Radar still refuses to change his mind. At one point during said argument, Hawkeye calls Radar a jackass.
In one final attempt to secure a generator, Klinger gets a call from a supply sergeant at "I" Corps saying they have a generator available.  Klinger takes a case of Scotch whisky to I Corps to close the deal.  At that point, a major from a service-and-supply unit pulls up and demands the generator, saying that two other generators they tried to secure at I Corps were stolen.  It is at that point where Klinger learns what happened to the 4077th's auxiliary generator- the major took it for his unit! Klinger decides that payback is in order.  While the major and supply sergeant go fill out a requisition, Klinger himself goes to the supply central issue station, poses as the major's driver, and blackmails the dispatcher into giving him the generator without a requisition. Returning to the 4077th with it, Klinger is met with a heroes' welcome. Radar now realizes that the camp can survive without him if they need to, and he finally decides to go home.
Radar says his good-byes to everyone in triage after a party for him goes awry due to wounded on the compound, and is saluted by Hawkeye while he watches the 4077th doctors in the OR from the hallway one final time. In another touching and moving scene, Radar tells all of his animals goodbye as well, telling them that instead of him everyone else at the 4077 will be caring for them.
After the OR session, Hawkeye and B.J. return to the Swamp to find something on Hawkeye's bed...Radar's teddy bear, which he had kept with him throughout the war as a security item. It's taken as a sign that Radar has officially grown up and become a man.

Production notes
The first cast member to be hired for M*A*S*H, Gary Burghoff became the last to leave, following the departures of McLean Stevenson and Wayne Rogers in 1975 and Larry Linville in 1977. He would later reprise his role as Radar twice; one was in a 2-part episode of AfterMASH, and the other was in an unsold TV pilot W*A*L*T*E*R, which featured Radar as a rookie police officer in St. Louis.
In the episode "War of Nerves," Sidney Freedman correctly predicted that Radar would leave his teddy bear behind in Korea when he went home.
Passage 8:
Suomen Robinson 2005
Suomen Robinson 2005, was the second season of the Finnish version of Expedition Robinson, or  Survivor as it is referred to in some countries and premiered 18 September 2005 and concluded 12 December 2005. Immediately upon arriving to the island the contestants were forced to compete in two challenges in order to determine who would be eliminated. The two contestants, Elena Sinkevitch and Mari Jalonen, were both sent to a secret island. As a major twist this season, during the pre-merge portion of the game when a contestant was voted out they would move to a secret island where they would compete against two other contestants to remain in the game. The two contestants left on the secret island following the final duel, Elena Sinkevitch and Markku Markkanen, joined the other members of the merge tribe. The contestants were then divided up into two tribes known as "Goal" and "Texas". When it came time for the final four, the contestants took part in the infamous "plank" competition in which Jasna Preselj was eliminated and Markku Markkanen advanced to the final two. The other two contestants then took part in one more challenge in which Mira Jantunen won and advanced to the final two while Elena Sinkevitch was eliminated. The final two then took part in a duel which Mira Jantunen won and earned an extra jury vote for herself. Along with this, Mira also won the audience's jury vote. Ultimately, it was Mira Jantunen who won this season over Markku Markkanen by a unanimous jury vote of 11-0 to win €40,000.

Finishing order
Passage 9:
Rehash (South Park)
"#REHASH" is the ninth episode in the eighteenth season of the American animated television series South Park. The 256th overall episode, it was written and directed by series co-creator and co-star Trey Parker. The episode premiered on Comedy Central in the United States on December 3, 2014. The episode is part one of the two-part season finale. The episode lampoons the popularity of Internet Let's Play celebrities and the phenomena of Internet trending topics that lack actual relevance. The episode also references and intertwines multiple elements from previous episodes in the eighteenth season of South Park. YouTuber PewDiePie plays himself in this episode.

Plot
Kyle Broflovski has purchased video games to play with his brother Ike. However, Ike is more interested in PewDiePie's Let's Play videos, much to Kyle's disdain. The popularity of LP is noticed by Eric Cartman, who begins his own commentaries on his classmates. Ike has subscribed to Cartman's CartmanBrah channel, which annoys Kyle. Kyle later invites Ike's friends over to play video games, but they all watch Let's Plays in Ike's bedroom. The children dismiss Kyle, along with Stan Marsh, as out-of-touch "grandpas", and Kyle perceives his living room to be "dying".
Randy Marsh learns of an upcoming benefit concert that will feature a roster of popular musicians, including his secret identity, Lorde. Randy is reluctant to perform due to his reliance on pitch correction software, but his producer reminds Randy that he needs the money due to his son Stan's spending on freemium gaming. Randy relents when his daughter, Shelley, expresses a desire to see Lorde perform, unaware of the truth. At the concert, Randy has second thoughts, but his producer insists that the audience does not care about the performance, telling Randy to "just go out there and pump your hips and rub your clit." Randy notices Iggy Azalea performing with a hologram of Michael Jackson and feels like something is "lost". When Randy's performance begins, his off-key singing and poor live performance disillusion the audience. Randy accidentally sets the Michael Jackson hologram free and then rubs his groin in an attempt to win the audience back, but this only further enrages them and later causes Shelley to tear down her Lorde poster. Randy calls his producer, who says that fame has never been about music, but the publicity generated by performers' antics, Randy being a recent example.
The Jackson hologram boards a bus heading toward South Park, as he needs to "take care of some important business". The Syntech Hologram Company, in response, activates a Tupac Shakur hologram to pursue Jackson.
Randy again contacts his producer, resolving to publicly reveal his identity as Lorde. The producer responds that artists are merely exploited to generate revenue, and that a hologram of Lorde will appear on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon, exposing her anus to create more publicity. Seeing Randy as an obstacle to this plan, the producer's henchmen attempt to restrain Randy, who escapes. When Randy informs his wife Sharon of the plan, she is incredulous that she slept with a hologram, which is revealed to be Tupac. Meanwhile, Randy's producer conspires with Cartman to install him as the leader in an upcoming social media revolution involving holograms.

Production
Trey Parker and Matt Stone said on the DVD audio commentary that this episode was originally two separate episodes, one about PewDiePie and one about Lorde. This plan did not materialize because they couldn't figure out an ending that would be long enough to fill up the time for either show. To rectify this, they intended to put them together to make one episode. However, this didn't work either because Parker had written a lot of good material and now felt it needed to be a three-part story arc episode. They considered actually doing this but expected problems with Comedy Central. After shifting back and forth between one episode and three episodes, they finally settled on two partway through the production cycle. In hindsight, they thought it would have been better off if they made it a three-part story.The scene in which Randy/Lorde is at the concert and gets into a fight with Iggy Azalea was originally going to be used as the final scene for "The Cissy", the third episode of this season. This idea was scrapped with the intention to use it later; it was used in this episode, but with a few modifications. Sia was originally present but was at some point removed and Randy was going to get in a fight with everyone else, not just one person.The PewDiePie story originated from Parker having similar experiences to Kyle that he had with his step-son. Another influence of the story was the fact that Parker and Stone felt that more people experienced South Park: The Stick of Truth, their video game, through PewDiePie than by actually buying and playing the game themselves. They thought it would be fun to "rip" on this.Parker and Stone said that making this episode, and the second part, made them feel old, mainly because the episodes deal with newer things that young people are interested in, such as new technology, pop music, and the focus on Internet. This is also where the title came from; things like Twitter, YouTube Let's Play, and the Internet in general, sometimes feel like places where all people do is "rehash each other's shit", an opinion that is shared by several characters in the episode.

Reception
The episode received a B+ rating from The A.V. Club's Eric Thurn, who commented "at first this seemed like a pretty good, if also a bit scatter-brained episode of South Park", but praised the continuity shown in both this episode and the entire season.Max Nicholson from IGN gave the episode a 7.8 out of 10, stating "in terms of sheer meta-ness, this week's #Rehash was off the charts."Chris Longo from Den of Geek gave the episode 2.5 out of 5 stars and called it "an episode that throws a lot of fun ideas at us with nothing to balance them out."
Passage 10:
South Park (season 2)
The second season of South Park, an American animated television series created by Trey Parker and Matt Stone, began airing on April 1, 1998. The second season concluded after 18 episodes on January 20, 1999; it remains the longest season of South Park to date. Almost all the episodes were directed by series co-creator Trey Parker, with the exception of two episodes directed by Eric Stough.

Broadcast
The first season of the show concluded with the episode "Cartman's Mom Is a Dirty Slut", broadcast on Comedy Central in the United States on February 25, 1998, and had a cliffhanger ending regarding the identity of Cartman's father. The episode scheduled for April 1, 1998 promised to resolve the mystery, but was in fact an April Fools' Day joke on the creator's part: "Terrance and Phillip in Not Without My Anus", an entire episode revolving around the two title characters. The April 1 episode was supposed to be a one-off, with the rest of the season starting in May. However, following overwhelmingly negative fan reaction, the episode resolving the Cartman's father storyline, "Cartman's Mom Is Still a Dirty Slut", was moved from its planned May 20 air date to April 22. "Ike's Wee Wee" then started a six-episode weekly run of the season when it was broadcast on May 20.The show went on a summer break of a month and a half, and returned for another six-episode run on August 19, with the episode "Chef's Chocolate Salty Balls". The next installment came after a three-week break, with the Halloween episode "Spookyfish", which aired on October 28. The next two episodes were "Merry Christmas, Charlie Manson!" and "Gnomes", airing on December 9 and 16 respectively. The final episode of the season, "Prehistoric Ice Man" aired after five weeks of hiatus, on January 20, 1999. The third season then started a few months later, in April 1999.

Voice cast
Main cast
Trey Parker as Stan Marsh, Eric Cartman, Randy Marsh, Mr. Garrison, Clyde Donovan, Mr. Hankey, Mr. Mackey, Tolkien Black, and Phillip
Matt Stone as Kyle Broflovski, Kenny McCormick, Butters Stotch, Gerald Broflovski, Stuart McCormick, Pip Pirrup, Craig Tucker, Jimbo Kern, Terrance, Tweek Tweak and Jesus
Mary Kay Bergman as Liane Cartman, Sheila Broflovski, Shelly Marsh, Sharon Marsh, Mrs. McCormick and Wendy Testaburger
Isaac Hayes as Chef

Guest cast
Henry Winkler as the Kid-Eating Monster ("City on the Edge of Forever")
Jay Leno as himself ("City on the Edge of Forever")
Brent Musburger as Scuzzlebutt's leg ("City on the Edge of Forever")
Jonathan Katz as Dr. Katz ("Summer Sucks")
Dian Bachar as the Cow Days' announcer ("Cow Days")Multiple musicians and bands made guest appearances in the episode "Chef Aid". These include:

Devo
DMX
Rick James
Elton John
Meat Loaf
Ozzy Osbourne
Primus
Rancid
Joe Strummer
Ween

Episodes
Home media
Special FeaturesIntroductions by Trey Parker and Matt Stone in 12 episodes.
Documentary: "Goin' Down to South Park"
"Chocolate Salty Balls" music video
Region 1 – June 3, 2003
Region 2 – October 22, 2007
Region 4 –  October 4, 2007

Notes