Passage 1:
Oregon Marching Band
The Oregon Marching Band (OMB) is the marching band of the University of Oregon in Eugene, Oregon, United States. With over 250 members, it is the largest student organization on campus, and its members come from nearly every department and major at the university. The marching band serves as the foundation for the larger Oregon Athletic Bands organization that includes the Oregon Basketball Band, Winter Drumline, and the Green and Yellow Garter Bands.
The OMB performs at all home football games at Autzen Stadium, selected away games, and bowl games. Other aspects of Oregon athletics, such as women's volleyball, are also supported by the OMB. The OMB also hosts a large high school marching band competition every fall known as the Festival of Bands.

Organization
Director of Bands
The Director of Bands is in charge of the Department of Bands at the university, teaches/conducts the Oregon Wind Ensemble, and assists with all of the bands in the department. Dr. Dennis Llinás served as an Associate Professor of Music and the Associate Director of Bands at Louisiana State University. He was also the director of the Tiger Band before accepting his position at the Oregon School of Music. Dr. Llinás will be conducting the Star Spangled Banner at home football games.

Director of Athletic Bands
The Director of Athletic Bands administrates the athletic band program by leading and teaching students, supervising graduate teaching fellows and other assistants, and working with the university and athletic department. This position also serves as an Assistant Director of Bands and Assistant Professor of Instrumental Music Education. The position is held by Dr. Eric Wiltshire, an alumnus of the University of Washington. Along with the athletic bands, Dr. Wiltshire teaches and conducts the Oregon Campus Band.

Past directors
Instructors and graduate assistants
The Oregon Marching Band employs several instructors and Graduate Teaching Fellows (GTFs) to assist in the teaching and administration of the band.

Leadership
The OMB is largely run by its many student leaders. These include drum majors, section leaders, uniform manager, equipment (truck) crew, garter band members, and the Oregon Athletic Bands Council.

History
2009 – Oregon Marching Band returns to the Rose Bowl. The band reaches 200 members.
2010 – Oregon attends the BCS National Championship in Glendale, Arizona. The Green Garter Band performs at the Musical Instrument Museum in Phoenix, Arizona.
2011 – The Green Garter Band competes for the first time in the 2011 Reno Jazz Festival and received all superior ratings.
2011 - Oregon Marching Band plays at the inaugural Pac-12 Football Championship at Autzen Stadium vs UCLA
2012 - Oregon Marching Band returns to the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, California
2012 - Nike creates a third version of its marching band uniform for the Oregon Marching Band.
2013 - Oregon Marching Band attends the Fiesta Bowl in Glendale, Arizona.
2013 - Oregon Basketball Bands attends the Pac-12 Men's Basketball Tournament at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas, NV
2013 - Oregon Marching Band attends the Alamo Bowl in San Antonio, Texas.
2014 - Oregon Athletic bands adopts "Soundtrack of the Ducks" as their official slogan.
2014 - Remembering Eric Humphrey.
2014 - Oregon Marching Band plays at the first college football game at Levi's Stadium.
2014 - Oregon Marching Band returns to Levi's Stadium for the Pac-12 Championship Game
2015 - Oregon Marching Band attends the inaugural College Football Playoff Semifinal Game at the Rose Bowl
2015 - Oregon Marching Band attends the inaugural College Football Playoff National Championship Game at AT&T Stadium
2015 - Oregon Marching Band attends the Alamo Bowl in San Antonio, Texas.
2017 - Oregon Marching Band attends the Las Vegas Bowl in Las Vegas, Nevada.
2018 - Oregon Marching Band attends the Redbox Bowl in San Francisco, California.
2019 - Oregon Marching Band returns to the Rose Bowl and marches in Rose Parade in Pasadena, California.
2021 - Oregon Marching Band attends the Alamo Bowl in San Antonio, Texas

Songs
The Oregon Marching Band plays a wide variety of songs designed to add to the atmosphere of Autzen Stadium's game day. The fight song of the Ducks is former director Albert Perfect's "Mighty Oregon". For the most part, the OMB plays popular tunes from the last 40 years. Some fan favorites include Journey's "Separate Ways", the theme song from Disney's "DuckTales", "Louie Louie"", "Ease On Down The Road" from The Wiz, numerous charts by Earth, Wind & Fire, and dozens of BBQs. Newer additions include "High Hopes", "Winner", and "MoBamba."

Fine for BBQ's
"Fine For BBQ's", usually referred to as simply "BBQs", is a collection of short stands tunes. Usually played by the band in the stands, some of the longer BBQs, such as "Come on Eileen" and "Walking on Sunshine", are used during pregame, battle of the bands and other performances. The specific songs included have changed over the years as new songs have been added and old ones have been removed. Many of the BBQs are based on popular music. Some recent additions include "Till the World Ends" and "Party Rock Anthem"

Prime Cuts
"Prime Cuts" is a newer collection of short stand tunes. Usually the band plays these when certain football players make good plays. For example: Marcus Mariota's theme song was "Hawaii Five-O," Vernon Adam's theme song was "California Love," and Justin Herbert's theme song was "300 Violin Orchestra". Other notable songs in the collection include "Shots", "Menance", and "School's Out"

Half Time Shows
2009

Guitar Hero: Livin' On A Prayer, More Than A Feeling, Carry On Wayward Son
Back To The Future2010

Queen: Bohemian Rhapsody, Don't Stop Me Now, We Are The Champions
Music from Avatar2011

Van Halen: Jump, Panama, Runnin' With The Devil, Hot For Teacher
Aladdin: Arabian Nights, Friend Like Me, A Whole New World, Finale
Pop Show: All Of The Lights, Party Rock Anthem, You Make Me Feel...2012

Rock Of Ages: Juke Box Hero/I Love Rock 'N Roll, Pour Some Sugar On Me, We Built This City/We're Not Gonna Take It
West Side Story
Gangnam Style2013

Fantasmic!
Maroon 5: This Love, Payphone, Love Somebody, Moves Like Jagger2014

Huey Lewis & The News: Hip To Be Square, The Heart Of Rock And Roll, Couple Days Off
Bruno Mars: Treasure, Marry You, Grenade, Runaway Baby
Evolution of Dance: Medley of popular dance tunes2015

Tribute to Stevie Wonder: Superstition, Uptight, Signed Sealed Delivered, Sir Duke and Isn't She Lovely
Classical Metal Show: Carmina Burana, Montagues and Capulets, and the Finale to Dvorak's 9th Symphony
Latin show based on Blue Devils tunes: Legend of the One Eyed Sailor and La Fiesta2016

Music from the band Styx
Tribute to Jimi Hendrix2017

The Marvel Cinematic Universe featuring the Marvel Fanfare Theme, Captain America, The Avengers, Thor and Thor The Dark World, Iron Man, and Marvel Recap
Music of American Composers2018

Funk music: Let's Groove by Earth Wind and Fire, Kiss the Sky by Jason Derulo, Love Stoned by Justin Timberlake
Contemporary Divas: Bang Bang by Ariana Grande, Chandelier by Sia, Destiny's Child Medley featuring Jumpin' Jumpin' and Survivor
Epic Video Game Themes: Final Fantasy VII: Opening-Bombing Mission, Halo Theme, God of War2019

Summer of 1969: Proud Mary by Creedence Clearwater Revival, Evil Ways by Santana, Aquarius/Let the Sunshine In by The 5th Dimension
The Music of Yes: Owner of a Lonely Heart, Changes, Roundabout
Tribute of to the Moon Landing: Rocket Man by Elton John, Space Oddity by David Bowie, Eclipse by Pink Floyd
The Oregon Marching Band also participated in a combined halftime show with the University of Washington Husky Marching Band which included the music from the Summer of 1969 show and added I Want You Back by The Jackson 5

Instrumentation
The instrumentation of the Oregon Marching Band is similar to that of a military band but with the addition of a full front ensemble (also known as a "pit"). The band is open, so specific instrumentation varies from year to year.

Winds
Piccolos
Flutes
1+2 Clarinets
1+2 Alto Saxophones
Tenor Saxophones
1+2+3 Trumpets
Mellophones in F
Horn in Bb
1+2 Trombones
Baritone Horns
Sousaphones

Battery percussion
Snare Drums
Bass Drums
Tenor Drums
Cymbals

Front ensemble
Marimba
Xylophone
Rack-Mounted Tom Drums
Timpani
Bells
Vibraphone
Gong (tam-tam)
Chimes
Keyboard Synthesizer
Electric Bass
Bass Drum
Cymbals
Various other percussion instruments

Uniforms
The Oregon Marching Band shares the same rights of their athletics programs in what they wear, giving them access to Nike-designed uniforms. For the 2008-09 season the OMB received a new style of uniforms to replace the older set of uniforms that were used from 2003 through the 2007 season, which included green wool jackets and bib pants that blended into Autzen Stadium's turf and dark green motorcycle helmets, which some fans likened to those worn by Nazi storm troopers during World War II. Those uniforms were a gift in 2003 from University of Oregon alumni and cofounder of Nike Phil Knight. The new band uniforms were designed in partnership with the school's new football and cheerleading uniforms in an effort to give Oregon football game day a brand as well as what they feel is a unique style. The end result put an emphasis on the marching band being "athletic". While the 2003 uniforms met with mixed reactions, including the ire of alumni and donors, the new 2008 uniforms were immediately welcomed.

Gameday uniform
Like that of the Oregon football team, the marching band's uniform has many levels of customization by pairing different all-Nike equipment together, such as:

Pants: Black Nike athletic pants with a silver mesh stripe down the sides
Shirts: Green Nike Drifit long sleeve and a green Nike Drifit long sleeve turtle neck (for cold weather, worn under other Drifit), both worn under vest
Vest: Yellow/White reversible vest with carbon-fiber "O" on the front
Jacket: Nike black travel jacket with carbon-fiber "O" on the front
Hats: a variety of green, yellow hats, worn during different quarters of the game
Shoes: custom black Nike Free running shoes with the Nike+ capabilities
T-shirts: green "Oregon Marching Band" T-shirts (additional shirts received for bowl games)
Polos: green Nike "Oregon Marching Band" polo
OBB, GGB and YGB get their own polos.
Students must provide their own slacks and black socks.The green helmets, which the band retired after the 2005 season, are currently being sold to raise money for the band.

Festival of Bands
The Festival of Bands (FOB) is an annual high school marching band competition. Thirty bands from around the northwest compete in a two-round competition, prelims and finals. The festival is coordinated by the OMB members, and raises up to $15,000 for the band. It also serves as a major recruiting opportunity for the OMB.
The festival is frequently held concurrently with NWAPA's annual circuit championships. Years that NWAPA championships are hosted by another school, the Festival of Bands is often NWAPA sanctioned event.

Oregon Winterguard
Relaunced in 2018, the University of Oregon Winterguard competed during the NWAPA winter season in class Independent A.  They have performed at numerous events across the Northwest including the NWAPA Winterguard Premier, Columbia River Winter Arts Invitational, Sherwood Winter Showcase, WGI Portland, and NWAPA Championships. Additionally, the winterguard has been the NWAPA Independent A Champions in both 2018 and 2019 as well as a WGI Regional Finalist. Since the cancelation of the NWAPA 2021 winter season, Oregon Winterguard has not made any competitive appearances. The Oregon Winterguard has continued as a class, hosting an exhibition show in March of 2023 that featured full winterguard shows from both themselves and the Sheldon High School Winterguard, along with solo and small group performances from members of both groups. Jennifer Freeman is the current director.

Oregon Athletic Bands Council
The Oregon Athletic Bands Council (OABC) is a group of students in the Oregon Marching Band that meets once a week throughout the school year to plan and organize many of the behind-the-scenes and logistical aspects of the Oregon Marching Band and other athletic bands. These aspects include Festival of Bands, winter band banquet, recruiting, and other related events. All members of the athletic bands are welcome to join OABC meetings, allowing all sections of the band to be represented. The council is composed of student leadership; a mix of elected positions and section leaders.
The 2021-2022 Oregon Athletic Bands Council positions are as follows:
President - Ben Orlov
Vice President - Kylie Farmer
Secretary/Historian - Patricia Young
Public Relations - Emily Rowe
OABC Liaison - Reid Mitchell
Chair of Non-Public Relations - Ethan Hartman
Festival of Bands Coordinator - Torrye Torrance
Recruitment - Reid Mitchell
Band Banquet - Broderick Buckholtz
Student Safety Advocate - Anna Boyd
Drum Majors:
Head: Zach Barrows
Andrew Hamilton
Claire Schmitz
OABC is run by an executive committee composed of the President, Vice President, and the Drum Majors of OMB. The OABC President also meets with the Director of Athletic Bands once a week to discuss band matters and to better coordinate the faculty with the students.

Other Athletic bands
Basketball Band
The Oregon Basketball Band (OBB) is a group of 80-100 OMB members who perform at all University of Oregon Men's and Women's Basketball home games. The group is auditioned from members of the OMB at the end of marching band season. Prior to January 2011, the OBB played in McArthur Court, better known as "The Pit". On January 13, 2011, the OBB, along with the rest of the OMB, the Oregon Cheerleaders and the Pit Crew, participated in the opening ceremony for the newly opened Matthew Knight Arena before the men's basketball game against USC.  In addition to home games, the OBB travels with both the men's and women's teams to the Pac-12 tournaments in Seattle, Washington and Las Vegas, Nevada, respectively, as well as March Madness tournaments.

Green Garter Band
The Green Garter Band (GGB) is a select group of twelve players that plays at numerous additional events for the University of Oregon. From funk to rock to hip hop, the GGB plays hundreds of high-energy student-arranged songs to entertain the hundreds of thousands they perform to every year. The group has a faculty advisor, the Director of Athletic Bands, but for the most part is entirely run by its student members. The Green Garter Band performs for all UO Women's Volleyball home games, UO Women's Basketball home games, many UO Softball home games and serves as the core unit of the OBB and OMB. Each year, the GGB also gives approximately 20-25 performances at special Athletic Department events, for the UO School of Music and Dance, for the University at large, and at various special events within the community. In return for their large commitment, Green Garter Band members are awarded scholarships equal to about 12 in-state credits. The demand for the GGB is so high that in 2002 the Yellow Garter Band (YGB) was created to help fulfill the number of requests coming in. The Yellow Garter Band is identical to its Green counterpart in most regards, but has a slightly smaller commitment. In return for their commitment, members of the YGB receive a large book scholarship every term. Together, the Green and Yellow Garter Bands have gained recognition and acclaim on campus, in the community and even nationally.

Discography
2008 Fighting Duck Spirit 2008 includes Music of Pinball Wizard; Music from the musical Wicked
2007 Fighting Duck Spirit 2007 includes Music of Journey; Music of 007
2006 Fighting Duck Spirit 2006 includes Disney's Fantasmic; Superheroes: Music from X-Men and Superman
2005 Fighting Duck Spirit 2005-06 includes Music from The Incredibles; Rock Show
2004 Fighting Duck Spirit 2005 includes Music from Harry Potter; Gershwin Medley
2003 Fighting Duck Spirit 2004 includes Music from Pirates of the Caribbean; Call of the Mountain; The Green Garter band
2002 Fighting Duck Spirit 2003 includes Music of Earth Wind & Fire; Adiemus: Music of Karl Jenkins
2001 Fighting Duck Spirit CD 2002 includes Music of Chicago; Appalachian Spring
2000 "Fighting Duck Spirit CD 2001" includes Music from Gladiator
1999 "Fighting Duck Spirit CS 2000" includes Music from Star Wars: Episode I
Passage 2:
Leo Harris
Leo A. Harris (August 6, 1904 – April 22, 1990) was an American athlete, coach, and athletic director. He played college football at Stanford University, coached football and basketball at Fresno State College, and was the first athletic director for the University of Oregon, bringing success to a financially troubled system. He was also known for his handshake deal with Walt Disney that permitted the University of Oregon to use the likeness of Donald Duck as the basis for its mascot, the Oregon Duck.

Playing and coaching career
Harris was a fullback and guard at Santa Cruz High School in Santa Cruz, California. He attended Stanford University, where he played tackle for legendary coach "Pop" Warner in 1925 and 1926.Following his collegiate playing career, Harris was football coach at Fresno State College from 1933 to 1935, winning Far West Conference championships the last two years. Harris also coached Fresno State's basketball program.

Oregon's first athletic director
In 1947, Harris was named athletic director at the University of Oregon, the first person to hold that title. At that time, Oregon's athletic department was in serious financial trouble. Through fundraising and careful planning, Harris expanded both the quality of the University's athletic programs as well as its facilities.His most significant achievement was the construction of a new football stadium to replace aging Hayward Field. His efforts, beginning with procurement of property across the Willamette River from campus and continuing with fundraising and governmental negotiations, resulted in the construction of Autzen Stadium, completed in 1967. Harris also oversaw expansion of McArthur Court and improvements to Hayward Field and the baseball team's Howe Field.Harris was also noted for striking a handshake deal with Walt Disney in 1947 that allowed Oregon to use the likeness of Donald Duck as the University's athletic mascot, The Oregon Duck. When Disney lawyers in the 1970s discovered that no written contract existed, the university produced a photograph of Harris alongside Walt Disney wearing a Donald-emblazoned Oregon jacket as proof that an agreement did exist. From that photo evidence, a formal contract licensing Donald's use by the university was created.

Legacy
Harris served as Oregon's athletic director for 20 years, stepping down in 1967, shortly before Autzen Stadium was completed. Today, the stadium's address is on Leo Harris Parkway. Harris died at his Carmel, California retirement home in 1990. He was inducted into the University of Oregon Athletic Hall of Fame in 1992, and the Oregon Sports Hall of Fame that same year.

Head coaching record
Football
Passage 3:
Petey (mascot)
Petey is the mascot for the Canisius Golden Griffins, the athletic teams of Canisius College in Buffalo, New York, USA. Petey is an anthropomorphic golden griffin who performs live at all Canisius athletic events. Canisius adopted the nickname "Golden Griffins" for their school athletic teams in 1932, in honor of Great Lakes explorer La Salle's ship, Le Griffon. Canisius first used an unnamed costumed griffin as a sideline mascot in 1967. In preparation for the 2002–2003 athletic season, the griffin mascot was completely re-designed and given a new costume and name. The name "Petey" was chosen as a reference to St. Peter Canisius, who Canisius College is named for.Canisius' golden griffin has been called one of the most unusual of all NCAA mascots. In 2010, after the College of William & Mary adopted the Griffin as their new school mascot, Petey "wrote" a satirical open letter to the William & Mary griffin that was published in USA Today, welcoming the new griffin mascot to the college mascot community.In 2013, the Catholic website Busted Halo held a March Madness-style competition to determine the title of "Best Catholic Mascot" through online voting. Petey won the online tournament, besting a field of 32 Catholic school mascots, including Notre Dame's Leprechaun and Boston College's Baldwin the Eagle. The following year, Petey advanced to the Final 4 of the same Busted Halo contest, but was ultimately defeated by Iggy the Royal Wolf from the University of Scranton. In 2015 Petey was entered in to the College Court Report "Mascot Mayhem" contest, where he made it to the Final 4 - surpassing Butler, North Florida, St. Louis, and UNLV. Sam the Minuteman from the University of Massachusetts Amherst claimed the 1st place prize. In 2016 Petey faced off against Boomer from Missouri State in the semi-finals of Court Report's "Mascot Mayhem" contest. Over 7,000 votes were cast in the final contest pairing, and Petey was narrowly defeated by a margin of 56.8% to 43.2%, claiming the 2nd place title.
Passage 4:
The Oregon Duck
The Oregon Duck  is the mascot of the University of Oregon Ducks athletic program, based on Disney's Donald Duck character through a special license agreement. The mascot wears a green and yellow costume, and a green and yellow beanie cap with the word "Oregon" written on it.

Early mascots
Oregon teams were originally known as Webfoots, possibly as early as the 1890s. The Webfoots name originally applied to a group of fishermen from the coast of Massachusetts who had been heroes during the American Revolutionary War. When their descendants settled in Oregon's Willamette Valley in the 19th century, the name stayed with them. A naming contest in 1926 won by Oregonian sports editor L. H. Gregory made the Webfoots name official, and a subsequent student vote in 1932 affirmed the nickname, chosen over other suggested nicknames such as Pioneers, Trappers, Lumberjacks, Wolves, and Yellow Jackets.Ducks, with their webbed feet, began to be associated with the team in the 1920s, and a live white duck named "Puddles" began to appear at sports events. Journalists, especially headline writers, also adopted the shorter Duck nickname. In 1978, a student cartoonist came up with a new duck image called Mallard Drake, but students chose Donald as the official mascot by a 2–to–1 margin.

Relationship with Disney
Beginning in 1940, cartoon drawings of Puddles in student publications began to resemble Donald Duck, and by 1947, Walt Disney was aware of the issue. Capitalizing on his friendship with Disney cartoonist Mike Royer, Oregon athletic director Leo Harris met Disney and reached an informal handshake agreement that granted the University of Oregon permission to use Donald as its sports mascot, naming him Donald Duck.When Disney lawyers later questioned the agreement in the 1970s, the university produced a photo showing Harris and Disney wearing matching jackets with an Oregon Donald logo. Relying on the photo as evidence of Disney's wishes, in 1973, both parties signed a formal agreement granting the university the right to use Donald's likeness as a symbol for (and restricted to) Oregon sports. The agreement gave Disney control over where the mascot could perform and ensured that the performer inside the costume would "properly represent the Donald Duck character."In 2010, Disney and the university reached an agreement that removed the costumed Oregon Duck mascot from its association with the Donald trademark, and allowed The Duck to make more public appearances, such as at college mascot competitions. The mascot in graphic art, which is more similar to Donald Duck than the rounder head and body of the costume, is still covered by the trademark agreement.

Controversy
During the 2007 season opener, The Duck got into a fistfight with Shasta, the mascot for the Houston Cougars, for seemingly mimicking the Duck's routine of doing push-ups after the mascot's team scores. Footage of the attack became very popular on YouTube for several weeks. The Duck was suspended for a game and the student inside the costume received an unspecified punishment.Late in the 2009 season, students of the university created a video, I Love My Ducks, in which The Duck made an appearance. Due to the agreement with Disney in place at the time, the creators had to remove the video from YouTube. However, by that time, the video had "gone viral" and coach Chip Kelly requested the video be played at the Ducks' final game of that season, the Civil War.

Other mascots
A Nike-designed futuristic Spandex-costume-wearing duck called Mandrake (and nicknamed "Duck Vader" and "RoboDuck" by the student body), began appearing at athletic events in 2002, but had disappeared by 2003.

See also
List of duck mascots
Passage 5:
Texas A&amp;M–Kingsville Javelinas
The Texas A&M–Kingsville Javelinas ( HAH-və-LEE-nə) are the athletic teams that represent Texas A&M University–Kingsville (TAMUK) in Kingsville, Texas, in intercollegiate sports at the Division II level of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), primarily competing in the Lone Star Conference (LSC) since the 1954–55 academic year.
Some of the women's athletic teams use the name Lady Javelinas; however, the school's other teams use the Javelina name. The javelina serves as the mascot representing the teams, and the school colors are blue and gold.

History
Texas A&M–Kingsville has a rich and storied sports history. From the establishment of the university as "South Texas State Teachers College" in 1925, the university embraced athletic competition. That year, the students of the school chose the "javelina" as a mascot – the only college or university in the world to do so.Often incorrectly considered a wild pig, a javelina is actually a ferocious creature that shares more in common with a coyote than a pig. Once provoked, a javelina often viciously and tenaciously fights any perceived threat, as demonstrated when the school's first president, Dr. Robert Cousins, discovered in 1929. After suffering an attack by one of the three mascots on the campus, Dr. Cousins stated that the creature stands for a symbol of the character of the school's students.The first varsity letters were awarded to 15 members of the Javelina football team in December 1925. By the time of the school's first name change (to "Texas College of Arts and Industries") in 1929, the school participated in a wide array of sports, including football, baseball, men and women's basketball, and men and women's track and field.
Today, the school competes in 11 NCAA varsity sports, and has gained recognition around the country for its ability to compete on a regional and national level. The school has a rich history of athletes who have moved on to national and international competition in the Olympic Games, as well as various professional sport leagues.

Sports
Texas A&M–Kingsville (TAMUK) competes in 13 intercollegiate varsity sports: Men's sports include baseball, basketball, cross country, football and track & field; while women's sports include basketball, beach volleyball, cross country, golf, softball, tennis, track & field and volleyball.
The university also offers various club and intramural sports. Participation in these activities by individual students and clubs in the university is highly encouraged.

Football
Since the school was established 1925, football has been the most popular sport on campus.
In early 1929, the school joined the original Texas Intercollegiate Athletic Association (TIAA). By the time the TIAA folded, the "Fighting Javelinas" had won two football championships. Following this, the school competed independently for several years. They moved from competing with junior colleges and teachers' colleges to competing against larger schools throughout the state. One highlight of this period included a football game that pitted the Javelinas against the Aggies of Texas A&M at Kyle Field in College Station. The Javelinas led the game until the Aggies tied it at 14 with three minutes left to play. The game ended in a tie. However, the Javelinas demonstrated that they could hold their own with a large football powerhouse. This further substantiated the team's nickname as "the toughest little team in the nation."In 1934, the school participated in the Lone Star Conference on a probationary period. In 1935, the school joined the Alamo Conference. By 1937, the Javelinas captured their first Alamo Conference co-championship (with St. Mary's). The next year, the Javelinas won their first outright Alamo Conference football championship. This led to a string of football championships and the school's recognition as a football powerhouse.For the 1954 season, A&I was finally inducted into the Lone Star Conference (LSC). By 1959, the Javelinas won the first in a long string of LSC championships. Since then, the school has remained a perennial conference powerhouse, winning 27 championships. During the years that the LSC was a member of the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA), the Javelinas also picked up seven national championships. During the 1970s, the Javelinas won five NAIA national championships and went undefeated from the last game of 1973 through third game of 1977.After the LSC joined the National Collegiate Athletic Association's Division II in 1980, the Javelinas continued their conference, regional, and national success. Just a year after the university changed its name to Texas A&M University–Kingsville, the Javelinas played in the 1994 NCAA Division II National Football Championship, only to lose to the University of North Alabama by a score of 16–10. While an NCAA D2 national championship remains elusive, the Javelinas continuously remained nationally ranked football team poised to challenge for an elusive title.The success of the Javelina Football team has led many writers and recruiters to dub the school a "football factory". More than 150 athletes from Javelina football teams have gone on to play professional football, and more than 50 of these were draft picks in the NFL draft – more than any other school in either the NAIA or NCAA Division II. As a result, many athletes choose to play for Texas A&M University–Kingsville simply for the opportunity to shine on a national stage.

Baseball and softball
Baseball began as a competitive team sport at the school in 1926. As the national pastime, it was immediately popular among students, faculty, and administration. Unfortunately, the vast distance between schools and the limited number of teams with baseball] programs made justifying the enormous cost to the new school difficult. To much chagrin, the school discontinued the program in 1930.In 1990, athletic director and Javelina Football Coach Ron Harms announced that the university would re-establish a baseball team after more than 60 years. In 1992,  pitcher Nolan Ryan and a local rancher named Frank Horlock established a fund to build a baseball stadium on the campus. A year later, Ryan and Horlock, along with NFL coaching legend Bum Phillips, actor Larry Hagman, and other celebrities, attended a gala event with around 350 guests that established the funds necessary to build the stadium.In 1993, the Javelinas of the newly renamed Texas A&M University–Kingsville" began competing with other LSC teams in NCAA Division II baseball. A year later, the school christened the 4,000-seat stadium as Nolan Ryan Field in honor of the Texas pitching legend's efforts to build the stadium.In addition, Texas A&M University–Kingsville established a competitive softball team in 1993. Within a four years, the popular sport was able to build a stadium of its own. In 1997, the Lady Javelinas softball team opened the stadium with a win against Incarnate Word. By 2001, the team set NCAA Division II records in softball attendance.Since the establishment of softball and the reestablishment of baseball, the programs have experienced fantastic success. Both teams have made deep runs in the NCAA Division II tournaments while gaining regional and national exposure.

Facilities
Baseball – Nolan Ryan Field
Basketball – Hampton Inn Court at the Steinke Physical Education Center
Football – Javelina Stadium
Golf – L.E. Ramey Golf Course in Kingsville
Rodeo – Texas Tech Equestrian Center/Dub Parks Memorial Arena
Softball – Vernie and Blanche Hubert Field
Track and field – Javelina Stadium
Volleyball – Hampton Inn Court at the Steinke Physical Education Center

Championships
The Javelinas have a long history of success in regional and national competition. In addition to being one of the most accomplished teams in the NAIA and NCAA Division II sports, the university has earned numerous division, conference, and national-championship flags and trophies.

National
The Javelina Football team has won seven national championships in the NAIA: 1979, 1976, 1975, 1974, 1970, 1969, and 1959. They were the runner-up in the NCAA Division II National Football Championship in 1994.

Conference
Football
The university's football team has earned 34 conference championships: 1931, 1932, 1938, 1939, 1941, 1951, 1952, 1959, 1960, 1962, 1967–70, 1974–77, 1979, 1985, 1987–89, 1992–97, 2001–04, and 2009.

Baseball
Since baseball was reinstated as a varsity sport at Texas A&M University–Kingsville in 1993, the Javelina baseball team has earned four LSC championships: 1995, 1998, 2004, 2008, 2014, and 2015. The baseball team also has one appearance in the NCAA Division II College World Series in 2018.

Division
Since the creation of the LSC South Division in 1997, the Javelina football team has won seven LSC South Division Championships: 1997, 1998, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, and 2009.

Tournaments
Softball
The Javelina softball team has participated in three NCAA Division II championship tournaments: 2003, 2004, 2007 and 2019.

Men's basketball
The Javelina men's basketball team has made deep runs in four NCAA Division II championship tournaments: 2009, 2004, 1996, and 1992.

Women's basketball
The Lady Javelinas basketball team has participated in three NCAA Division II championship tournaments: 2001, 2000, and 1983. In 2001, the Lady Javelinas advanced to the NCAA Elite 8 game.

Men's track and field
The men's track and field team won NCAA Division II outdoor track and field national championships in 2018. The men's track and field squad won the IBC Bank Cactus Cup in 2010.

Traditions
Texas A&M University–Kingsville has a long history of athletic traditions. Since the university was established in 1925, the school placed an emphasis on traditions that united students in institutional and organizational identity.

Current
School colors: The school's official colors are royal blue and gold, which are reflected around the campus. They are seen in the uniforms of athletes, coaches, and band members. They are also found on flags and school apparel, and are proudly worn during sporting events.
Alma mater: The official song of the university, "Hail AMK", is sung following each football game.
School songs: The official fight song for TAMUK, is "Jalisco", is played by the band following every touchdown. In addition, the "Javelina Victory March" is played after every field goal or extra point. Other songs are played during the games, often followed by a chant of "Go Hogs Go!"
Pride of South Texas Marching Band: This is the award-winning marching band of the school. The band has participated in competitions throughout Texas and the United States. They routinely perform during halftime of home football games. In addition, the band plays the school's alma mater at the end of football games.
Bonfire: During homecoming week, a large bonfire is held in a field located adjacent to the soccer field and softball stadium. The bonfire is sponsored by the Aggie Club and is open to the student body, faculty, staff, and alumni of the university.
Homecoming King and Queen: In the weeks preceding the homecoming, members of various student organizations campaign for King and Queen. Students vote for the candidates of their choice, and the results are announced during halftime at the Homecoming Game.
Tailgate party: A tailgate party is hosted in the northeastern parking lot of Javelina Stadium before each home football game. These gatherings have become a normal part of Javelina football games and attract thousands of fans. The tailgate party is open to the public and many student organizations, clubs, and surrounding businesses around the area choose to participate with food, drinks, and music.
Army ROTC: The cadets of Javelina Battalion present colors during official school functions. Javelina Battalion upholds several internal traditions, including the firing of "Old Smokey" (prior to 1965, cadets fired a cannon known as "Little Jav") during home football games, as well as sponsoring the Military Ball each year since 1975.
Hog Calls: Enthusiastic rallies are held before the 1st Home Game, Family Weekend and Homecoming games.
Blue Out: During home games, students are encouraged to participate in a "Blue Out" – where students wear their school colors in a sign of school spirit.
Porky's Pack and Train: Children who become members of Porky's Pack accompany Porky the Javelina mascot on a train ride around the stadium throughout the game.
Blue Thunder: Prior to kickoff, students sitting on the west side of the stadium repeatedly kick the metal rails beneath their seats in a sign of school solidarity, resulting in a thunderous clamor.
Flag Run: Following each touchdown scored by the Javelinas, two separate school flags are run around the stadium by members of the Aggie Club.
Tortilla toss: During the 1980s, students began to throw tortillas following every touchdown as a show of support for the football team. This tradition was halted in 1999 after some students complained of possible racial undertones. School officials subsequently banned tortillas from the stadium; however, tortillas continue to be thrown during the game.
College Hall black lights: Following each football victory, the bell tower atop College Hall is lit up with black lights to provide an ethereal reminder to the campus community of each victory.

Athletes
Rally Entry: The Javelina athletic teams choose to make a scenic entry to football, basketball, baseball, and softball games.
Prayer in the End Zone: An unofficial football tradition, many of the players from various religious backgrounds immediately head to the north end zone (near the scoreboard) following entrance into the stadium. These players  kneel in silent prayer. Following the game, many players (from both the Javelinas and visiting teams) choose to meet at the 50-yard-line and pray.
Alma mater: The Javelina football team joins the students on the western bleachers in the singing of the school's alma mater.
Children's Hospital: At various times throughout the year, members of the various Javelina teams accompany Porky the Javelina costumed mascot and visit local hospitals, including the Driscoll Children's Hospital.

Mascots
Mascot: The javelina is the official mascot of Texas A&M University–Kingsville. The a live mascot is paraded during official school events and games. Over the years, various mascots named Henry, Henrietta, Little Henry, Scrappy, and Porky have held the honor as official mascot. The current mascot is named Porky III.
Porky and Baby: The university has two costumed mascots who represent the university at public functions and encourage crowd involvement during athletic events. "Porky" is the original and male javelina mascot. Several years ago, he was joined by "Baby", a female javelina mascot.

Rivalries
As a perennial champ in the LSC and a regional and national powerhouse in football and other sports, the Javelinas of Texas A&M University–Kingsville have fostered several conference, regional, and national rivalries.

Texas A&M University-Commerce
Tarleton State University
University of Central Oklahoma
Abilene Christian University
West Texas A&M University
University of North Alabama
University of California, Davis
Northwest Missouri State University

People
Personnel - head coaches
Autumn Williams, Women's Tennis
Mike Salinas, Football
Jason Gonzales, Baseball
Craig Nicholson, Softball
Johnny Estelle, Men's Basketball
Michael Madrid, Women's Basketball
Tanya Allen, Volleyball/Beach Volleyball
Stefanie Gray, Golf
Ryan Dahl, Track and Field/Cross Country

Notable alumni
Stu Clarkson, NFL linebacker for the Chicago Bears, Texas A&M - Kingsville Football Hall of Fame
Juan Castillo NFL coach, defensive co-ordinator Philadelphia Eagles
Roberto Garza, NFL lineman for the Chicago Bears
Darrell Green, Pro Football Hall of Famer, retired cornerback
Al Harris, NFL cornerback for the Green Bay Packers
Jim Hill, former NFL player for the Green Bay Packers and San Diego Chargers, sports anchor at KCBS-TV in Los Angeles
Jermane Mayberry, NFL guard for the New Orleans Saints
John Randle, retired NFL Hall of Fame defensive tackle
Heath Sherman, retired NFL [running back] for the Philadelphia Eagles
Gil Steinke, NFL defensive back Philadelphia Eagles, longtime coach of the Javelinas. Texas Sports Hall of Fame
Gene Upshaw, Pro Football Hall of Famer, former executive director of the National Football League Players Association
 Johnny Bailey, former NFL running back
Randy Johnson, inaugural NFL quarterback for the Atlanta Falcons
Martin Patton, former CFL running back
Eva Longoria, (Miss Corpus Christi USA in 1998), (American actress) Desperate Housewives, born in Corpus Christi, Texas
Passage 6:
Oregon Ducks
The Oregon Ducks are the intercollegiate athletic teams that represent the University of Oregon, located in Eugene. The Ducks compete at the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I level as a member of the Pac-12 Conference. With eighteen varsity teams, Oregon is best known for its American football team and track and field program, which has helped Eugene gain a reputation as "Track Town, USA". Oregon's main rivalries are with the Oregon State Beavers (the Civil War) and the Washington Huskies.

Nicknames and mascot history
Oregon teams were originally known as Webfoots, possibly as early as the 1890s. The Webfoots name originally applied to a group of fishermen from the coast of Massachusetts who had been heroes during the American Revolutionary War; their descendants had settled in Oregon's Willamette Valley in the 19th century and the name stayed with them. A naming contest in 1926 won by Oregonian sports editor L. H. Gregory made the Webfoots name official, and a subsequent student vote in 1932 affirmed the nickname, chosen over other suggested nicknames such as Pioneers, Trappers, Lumberjacks, Wolves, and Yellow Jackets.Ducks, with their webbed feet, began to be associated with the team in the 1920s, and live duck mascots were adopted to represent the team. Journalists, especially headline writers, also adopted the shorter Duck nickname, but it was not until the 1940s that the image of Donald Duck, permitted via a handshake deal between Walt Disney and Oregon athletic director Leo Harris, cemented the image of the Duck as the school's mascot. Both nicknames were still in use well into the 1970s.In 1978, a student cartoonist came up with a new duck image, but students rejected the alternative by a 2-to-1 margin. Although Donald was not on that ballot, the University Archivist declared that the election made Ducks the school's official mascot, replacing Webfoots.

Varsity programs
The University of Oregon sponsors teams in eight men's and twelve women's NCAA sanctioned sports, primarily competing in the Pac-12 Conference and acrobatics & tumbling competing in the National Collegiate Acrobatics & Tumbling Association, and lacrosse and indoor track & field teams competing in the Mountain Pacific Sports Federation.

Football
The football program began in 1893 and played its first game on February 22, 1894, defeating Albany College 46-0. The football team moved to its new home, Hayward Field in 1919 where it shared the facility with the track and field team until Autzen Stadium was completed in 1967.Winning its first Rose Bowl in 1917 against the University of Pennsylvania under head coach  Hugo Bezdek, the Ducks have returned to the Rose Bowl seven additional times in 1920, 1957, 1995, 2010, 2012, 2015, and 2020;. While in the Pacific Coast Conference, the Ducks won five conference co-championships in 1919, 1933, 1948, and 1957. The Pacific Coast Conference was disbanded in 1958, and the Ducks played as an independent until they joined the PCC's effective successor, the Pacific-8 Conference (then officially the Athletic Association of Western Universities), which later became the Pacific-10 Conference and eventually the Pac-12 Conference, in 2011. In the Pac-8/10/12, they have won seven conference championships (1994, 2001, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2014, 2019) and shared one championship (2000). The Ducks were 3–2 during the BCS era, winning the 2002 Fiesta Bowl, the 2012 Rose Bowl, and the 2013 Fiesta Bowl and losing the 2010 Rose Bowl and the 2011 BCS National Championship Game.
In 2014, Oregon won a school record 13 games and saw junior quarterback Marcus Mariota win the school's first Heisman Trophy. That same year, the Ducks made the first ever College Football Playoff and beat the defending champion Florida State Seminoles 59–20 in the 2015 Rose Bowl semi-final. The loss to Oregon ended the Seminoles 29 game win streak and moved the Ducks into the final. They made the first ever CFP National Championship Game where they lost 42–20 to Ohio State.

Basketball
The Ducks men's basketball team played its first season in 1902-1903 under head coach Charles Burden. It was not until 1927 that the Ducks played their first game at McArthur Court, defeating Willamette University 38-10. Head coach Howard Hobson was hired in 1936 and took the basketball team nicknamed "The Tall Firs" to win the first NCAA Men's Basketball Championship in 1939. The Tall Firs achieved a 29-5 record, capped by a 46-33 victory over Ohio State University in the championship game. in the inaugural year for the event.
The Ducks men's team would add only one more shared Pacific Coast Conference title to their two until winning the Pacific-10 Conference title in the 2001-2002 season under head coach Ernie Kent. The Ducks would also make an Elite Eight appearance in the NCAA Tournament that season along with the 2006-2007 season. In 2010-2011, the Ducks moved into the new Matthew Knight Arena and welcomed new coach Dana Altman. Since, Altman has won three Pac-12 Conference Coach of the Year honors (2013, 2015, 2016) and led Oregon to the 2013 Pac-12 Conference men's basketball tournament championship. In addition, Altman has taken Oregon to four straight NCAA men's basketball tournament for the first time in program history (2013, 2014, 2015, 2016), including a trip to the Sweet 16 in 2013 and the Elite 8 in 2016. The Ducks won the 2015-2016 Pac-12 Conference Tournament. This led to the Ducks being the top seed in the West Regional of the 2015-2016 NCAA tournament, its first ever top seeding in the NCAA tournament. The Ducks defeated Holy Cross and Saint Joseph's in the first two rounds of the NCAA tournament to advance to the Sweet 16 in Anaheim, where they defeated the number four seed and defending national champion Duke Blue Devils, 82-68, to advance to the Elite 8.
On the women's side, three eventual first-round WNBA draft picks—Sabrina Ionescu (30 points), Satou Sabally (25 points), and Ruthy Hebard—led the No. 1 ranked Ducks to a 93–86 victory over Team USA in November 2019. Their opponents had won the last six Olympic gold medals, the 2018 World Cup, and already qualified for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, and included WNBA stars Diana Taurasi, Sue Bird, Nneka Ogwumike, and Sylvia Fowles. The exhibition game was Team USA's first loss to a college team in 20 years. Ionescu, the top pick in the 2020 draft, is also the only NCAA basketball player of either sex to record 2,000 points, 1,000 rebounds, and 1,000 assists in a career, as well as the recipient of multiple national player of the year awards in both 2019 and 2020, sweeping all of the major awards in the latter year.

Track and field
The University of Oregon Cross Country and Track & Field programs have a particularly long and storied history, earning Eugene the nickname Track Town, United States. After several years of struggling, Bill Hayward became the head coach in 1903 and provided solid direction for the program for 44 years, coaching Daniel Kelly and Ralph Hill to Olympic Silver Medals. After Hayward's retirement in 1947, his trainee Bill Bowerman took over the head coaching position in 1949.

Bill Bowerman became a legendary coach, winning numerous NCAA team Championships at Oregon and coached many to All-American and Olympian status such as Steve Prefontaine. His talents were not limited to the track, as he also co-founded Nike, pressured the Amateur Athletic Union to improve its services, and brought the Olympic Trials and NCAA Championships to Hayward Field.Bill Bowerman retired in 1973 and his assistant coach, Bill Dellinger became the head coach who brought four NCAA Cross Country Championships and one NCAA Track & Field Championship.Steve Prefontaine, who ran at Oregon in the early 1970s, was a legend in his own right, setting 13 American records in seven separate events and only lost three races at Hayward Field during the span of his career. He won seven NCAA championships and today, the Prefontaine Classic is held every year at Hayward Field in his honor.The program has garnered numerous NCAA national titles across all the disciplines.

Baseball
The Ducks baseball team first played in 1877, the year following the establishment of the university. In 1981, baseball was dropped due to budgetary concerns. Baseball would be reinstated 26 years later by interim athletic director Patrick Kilkenny and played its first game in 2009. George Horton, who led the Cal State Fullerton baseball team to an NCAA national championship, was hired in 2007 to lead the reinstated Oregon Ducks baseball program. In his second year, Horton guided the team in to a 40-24 record and a berth in the NCAA regionals.

Softball
Oregon Softball plays home games at the new Jane Sanders Stadium. Oregon has had recent success under Coach Mike White who has taken Oregon to the Women's College World Series (WCWS) four times in the last 6 years. Oregon has appeared in seven WCWS, in 1976, 1980, 1989, 2012, 2014, 2015 and 2017. In 2014 and 2017, the Ducks reached the national semi-finals.

Volleyball
The Oregon Volleyball program are coached by Matt Ulmer and play its home games at Matthew Knight Arena. They have appeared in the NCAA Tournament 16 times including the 2012 National Title Game. Oregon defeated #1 Penn State in the National Semi-Finals before losing to eventual champion Texas in the title match.

Other varsity sports
The Ducks also have varsity teams in women's basketball, golf, tennis, lacrosse, soccer, team stunts and gymnastics.

Notable non-varsity sports
Rugby
Founded in 1961, the University of Oregon Rugby Football Club plays Division 1 college rugby in the Northwest collegiate rugby conference against local rivals such as Washington and Washington State. Oregon's biggest rivalry, however, is their "civil war" matchup against in-state rival Oregon State University. Oregon plays its home games at Riverfront Field. The Ducks have been led by head coach Pate Tuisue since 2012.The University of Oregon Women's Club Rugby Team has been coached by Greg Farrell since 1998. They are a part of the Pacific Mountain Rugby Conference. During their league season they will play University of Washington, Washington State University, Oregon State, Boise State University, and Western Washington University. For the past couple years the team's main rival has been Washington State University. Oregon Women's also plays on Riverfront field.

Ice hockey
The Ducks compete at the Pacific 8 Intercollegiate Hockey Conference of the American Collegiate Hockey Association Division II.
The team will be moving up to Division I in the upcoming 2022-23 season. With the move to Division I, they will be an Independent.

Championships
NCAA team championships
Oregon has won 34 NCAA national championships.
Men's (20)
Basketball (1): 1939
Cross country (6): 1971, 1973, 1974, 1977, 2007, 2008
Golf (1): 2016
Indoor Track & Field (5): 2009, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2021
Outdoor Track & Field (7): 1962, 1964, 1965, 1970, 1984, 2014, 2015
Women's (14)
Cross country (4): 1983, 1987, 2012, 2016
Indoor track and field (7): 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2016, 2017
Outdoor track and field (3): 1985, 2015, 2017
see also:
Pac-12 Conference NCAA championships
List of NCAA schools with the most NCAA Division I championships

Other national team championships
Below are four national team titles that are not bestowed by the NCAA:

Women's
Acrobatics and Tumbling (4):  2011, 2012, 2013, 2014
Acrobatics & tumbling is now an NCAA-recognized sport as part of its Emerging Sports for Women program. However, it did not become an Emerging Sport until 2020–21, and still does not have an NCAA-organized championship event.
see also:
List of NCAA schools with the most Division I national championships

Other national championship game appearances
Football (2): 2010, 2014
Volleyball (1): 2012
Men's Golf (1) : 2017
Women's Golf (1) : 2022

Athletic facilities
The Oregon Ducks football complex is located across the Willamette River to the north of the main campus. The complex includes Autzen Stadium where the games are played, the Len Casanova Center where the locker rooms and training facilities are located, the indoor practice field called the Moshofsky Center, and the outdoor training field named Kilkenny Field. Much of the cost of the state-of-the-art facilities were paid for by the prominent university boosters Phil Knight, Ed Moshofsky, and Patrick Kilkenny.Also in the football complex is PK Park, the University of Oregon baseball stadium, completed in 2009 for the reemergence of the baseball program, located in the northeast corner of the parking lot.
The basketball teams along with other court-based sports play at Matthew Knight Arena, dubbed "Matt Court" in a play on McArthur Court's longstanding nickname "Mac Court", the Oregon Ducks' main court through the first part of the 2010–11 season.
Hayward Field was originally constructed for the football team in 1919 and in 1921, a track was installed to accommodate the track team. Today, it is the home of the Oregon Ducks track and field team. This storied venue has been the host of the NCAA Outdoor Track and Field Championships twelve times. The Olympic Trials have been hosted at this venue four times.Jane Sanders Stadium, the newest Ducks sports venue, located at the south end of campus, opened in March 2016 as the home diamond for the Ducks softball team.

Rivalries
The Oregon Ducks have an in-state rivalry with the Oregon State Beavers in which they play for the Platypus Trophy. The rivalry, dubbed the Civil War, has been scored across ten different sports that the two universities share over the past nine years. The series is currently tied 4-4-1.The Oregon Ducks and the Washington Huskies have enjoyed a border rivalry that many consider to be even more fierce than the respective teams’ in-state rivalries. The rivalry began to build steam in 1948, when the Ducks and the California Golden Bears tied for the conference win and the Huskies’ vote went to Cal which inked them in for a trip to the Rose Bowl. A few years later, there was a move to remove Oregon, Oregon State, and Washington State from the Pacific Coast Conference (whose history the Pac-10 claims as its own) and the Huskies did not object.

Relationship with Nike
The University of Oregon is commonly referred to as the University of Nike due to Nike co-founder Phil Knight's influence through his donations to the school over the years. Knight ran in the University of Oregon Track & Field program under Nike co-founder Bill Bowerman. Knight graduated from the University of Oregon in 1959 with a bachelor's degree in accounting and went on to earn an M.B.A. at Stanford University. Knight returned to Oregon and with Bowerman, also a University of Oregon alumnus, later founded Blue Ribbon Sports in 1964, which officially became Nike in 1978. In 1970, Bowerman revolutionized the athletic shoe by pouring molten rubber into a waffle iron, creating a prototype rubber sole. University of Oregon distance runner Steve Prefontaine became the first major track athlete to wear Nike shoes and converted many of his peers to the Nike brand.Nike has maintained a close relationship with UO ever since, manufacturing all university logo clothing and uniforms for athletic teams, including research prototypes for high-tech "smart clothes", such as jerseys with cooling systems. Numerous University of Oregon graduates have also gone on to become executives, designers, and business partners of Nike such as Tinker Hatfield and Dan Wieden.
Phil Knight has personally donated significant amounts to the University for both academic and athletic aspirations, including significant amounts toward the Knight Library, the Knight Law Center, numerous endowed chairs, support for the track & field program, the Autzen Stadium expansion, and a $100 million donation to create the Oregon Athletics Legacy Fund.Controversy surrounding Nike's labor practices precipitated protests in 2000 led by a group of students calling themselves the Human Rights Alliance. Protests included a 10-day tent city occupation of the lawns in front of Johnson Hall, the main administration building, demanding the university join the Worker Rights Consortium (WRC).University President Dave Frohnmayer signed a one-year contract with the WRC, causing Phil Knight to withdraw a previous $30 million commitment toward the Autzen Stadium expansion project and no further donations toward the University. Nike, since 1998, had actively improved worker conditions abroad and strongly endorsed the Fair Labor Association, an association with similar aspirations of the WRC but with origins and board members from the apparel industry, including Nike. In a public statement, Phil Knight criticized the WRC for having unrealistic provisions and called it misguided while praising the FLA for being balanced in its approach. The students disagreed, saying the FLA has conflicting interests, but President Dave Frohnmayer along with several others agreed with Knight in that the WRC provides unbalanced representation.Citing a legal opinion from the University Counsel, President Frohnmayer in October 2000, released a statement saying that the University could not pay its membership dues for the WRC since the WRC was neither an incorporated entity nor had tax-exempt status and to do so was a violation of state law. The Oregon University System on February 16, 2001, enacted a mandate that all institutions within the OUS choose business partners from a politically neutral standpoint, barring all universities in Oregon from membership in the WRC and the FLA. Following the dissolved relationship between the university and the WRC, Phil Knight reinstated the donation and increased the amount to over $50 million. Since then, activity on the subject died down and Frohnmayer believed that the leaders of the protest lost their foothold since they did not represent the majority of students on campus.The relationship between the University of Oregon and Nike was the topic of the book, "University of Nike" by Joshua Hunt. In the book, Hunt describes the influence that Nike held over university administrators as well as the strong arm tactics Nike employed to the benefit of corporate interests under the guise of philanthropy. The book also points to this relationship as a bellwether as other U.S. states reduce higher education funding, resulting in universities accepting a greater percentage of their funding from corporate sources with their corresponding interests.

See also
Oregon Sports Hall of Fame
List of Oregon Ducks Athletic Directors
Passage 7:
Presbyterian Blue Hose
The Presbyterian Blue Hose are the athletic teams of Presbyterian College, located in Clinton, South Carolina, United States. The Blue Hose athletic program is a member of the Big South Conference and competes in the NCAA Division I Football Championship Subdivision (FCS). The PC Athletic Department fields a total of 17 varsity teams in eight men's and nine women's sports. The school colors are garnet and blue, and the mascot is Scotty the Scotsman, a medieval Scottish warrior. The team name comes from the socks worn by the football team in the early days of the twentieth century.

Conference affiliations
NCAA

Carolinas Intercollegiate Athletic Conference (1964–1972)
South Atlantic Conference (1989–2007)
Big South Conference (2007–present)

Teams
Presbyterian sponsors teams in eight NCAA-sanctioned sports for each sex, plus one women's sport that is not governed by the NCAA.
In December 2017, Presbyterian announced the addition of men's and women's wrestling programs. Men's wrestling is fully sanctioned by the NCAA, while women's wrestling has partial NCAA recognition. Women's wrestling is primarily governed by the Women's Collegiate Wrestling Association, but since 2020–21 has been recognized by the NCAA through its Emerging Sports for Women program. The men's program debuted in 2018–19 as an independent and joined the Southern Conference in July 2019, joining Big South rivals Campbell and Gardner–Webb as SoCon affiliates since the Big South does not sponsor wrestling. The women's program is the first for an NCAA Division I school. The men's team began with a limited varsity schedule in 2018–19 and first played a full schedule in 2019–20, while the women's team began playing a full varsity schedule in 2018–19.Mark Cody, former head coach of American and Oklahoma, was named to lead the Blue Hose. Presbyterian was the first South Carolina-based Division I school to sponsor wrestling since Clemson eliminated its program in 1995. Cassy Lopez of Maryland's Mt. Hebron High School was the first woman to sign a National Letter of Intent with a Division I wrestling program.In 2021, Cody became the school's Director of Wrestling. Zach Sheaffer, an All-American with Pittsburgh, became the head coach of the men's and women's teams.

Facilities
SourceBaseball: The PC Baseball Complex was built in the late 1980s.
Basketball: The Furman Pinson Arena in the Ross E. Templeton Center seats approximately 2300 and was opened in 1975.
Campus Golf: PC hosts a state of the art, 8 hole campus golf course located in the parking grounds of Bailey Memorial Stadium. Dubbed "The Links at Jeff E. Redwood" the layout was finalized in 2010 by famed golf course architect, Jeff E. Redwood. The crown jewel of the course is hole #4, commonly known as "Statue Hole". Pin locations vary from tree bases, to statues, and fire hydrants. The course is open to the public and no green fee is required.
Cross country does not compete on campus.
Football: Bailey Memorial Stadium opened in 2002, seating 6,500; play takes place on Claude Crocker field (natural grass). In 2021, football will make a transition to the Pioneer Football League
Golf: The Arnold Palmer-designed Musgrove Mill Golf Club is a championship course located at the site of the Revolutionary War Battle of Musgrove Mill and is host to Blue Hose home competitions. The golf teams also make use of the courses at Stoney Point Country Club and Lakeside Country Club.
Lacrosse: Old Bailey Stadium, the former home of PC football, opened in 1928. It now houses Blue Hose lacrosse on its Johnson Field. The stadium seats 3,000.
Soccer: Edens Field at Martin Stadium was built in 2000 and seats about 400.
Softball: PC Softball Complex, opened in 1997, has the main softball stadium, 3 practice fields, and batting cages.
Tennis: The Templeton Tennis Courts have 6 courts with bleacher seating located adjacent to the Templeton Center.
Volleyball and wrestling also compete in the arena at the Templeton Center.
The Blue Hose athletics program also has the Templeton Strength and Conditioning Weight Room and the Kemper D. Lake M.D. Sports Medicine Center with a staff of certified, professional athletic trainers for training and rehabilitation.

See also
Presbyterian Blue Hose baseball
Presbyterian Blue Hose men's basketball
Presbyterian Blue Hose women's basketball
Presbyterian Blue Hose football
Passage 8:
Les Schwab Invitational
The Les Schwab Invitational (LSI) is Oregon's premier pre-season high school invitational basketball tournament.[1] Prior to its founding in 1996, Oregon's high school teams had to travel out of state for quality pre-season play, denying fans connection to local teams prior to the regular season. In 1994, South Salem High School coach Barry Adams and Beaverton High School coach Nick Robertson, along with the Oregon Athletic Coaches Association, proposed a pre-season tournament to showcase the upcoming season's top teams. After two years of phone calls, lobbying, and meetings, the Oregon State Activities Association approved the proposition and the Oregon Holiday Invitational (renamed in 2000 The Les Schwab Invitational) was born. Since its creation, the tournament has hosted nationally ranked teams from many states including Virginia, New York, Nevada, Louisiana, Texas, Maryland, Georgia, Florida, Pennsylvania, and numerous top teams from California. The LSI is a 4-day, 32-game, boy's high school basketball tournament. It features 16 teams chosen from Oregon's top schools and elite national teams through a partnership with Nike. Prime Time Sports is the owner and promoter of the tournament which was founded by co-tournament creator John McCallum.

Facts
Played in the month of December, usually between December 26 and January 1.
Is a 5-day, 32-game, and 16-team tournament.
Tournament awards include: "The Mr.Hustle Award", "Tournament MVP" and "The Shawn Zinsli Team Sportsmanship Award"
Participating teams raise money for their basketball programs through ticket sales and sponsor donations
Oak Hill Academy, from Mouth of Wilson, Virginia has won five LSI championships ('97, '01, '04,'06, '11)
More than 22 Les Schwab Invitational participants have gone on to play in the NBA
Kevin Durant, the 2008 NBA Rookie of the Year was a player in the 2004 LSI while at Oak Hill Academy
Kevin Love is the only freshman to ever be named LSI Most Valuable Player as he did in 2003 while at Lake Oswego High School

Venues
Year-Venue(s)

1996 -Westview High School-Portland, OR.; South Salem High School, Salem, OR.; The University of Portland, Portland, OR.; Beaverton High School, Beaverton, OR.
1997-Lewis and Clark College, Portland, OR.
1998-Lewis and Clark College, Portland, OR.
1999-Lewis and Clark College, Portland, OR.
2000-Memorial Coliseum, Portland, OR.
2001-Memorial Coliseum, Portland, OR.
2002-The University of Portland, Portland, OR.
2003-The University of Portland, Portland, OR.
2004–Present-Liberty High School, Hillsboro, OR.

Teams invited
Oregon State classification 6A and 5A basketball teams as well as the top teams from southwest Washington are invited based on selections made by a committee that meets each January.
3-4 nationally ranked Nike-sponsored teams are also brought in from around the country.

Past champions
Year	School

1996	Beaverton High School Beavers
1997	Oak Hill Academy Warriors
1998	Crenshaw High School Cougars
1999	Jefferson High School Democrats
2000	Dominguez High School Dons
2001	Oak Hill Academy Warriors
2002	Bishop O’Connell High School Knights
2003	Jesuit High School Crusaders
2004	Oak Hill Academy Warriors
2005	Reserve Christian Eagles
2006	Oak Hill Academy Warriors
2007	Archbishop Mitty High School Monarchs
2008	Dominguez High School Dons
2009	Westchester High School Comets
2010 DeMatha Catholic Stags
2011 Oak Hill Academy Warriors
2012 Lake Oswego High School Lakers
2013 Rainier Beach High School Vikings
2014 Montverde Academy Eagles
2015 Oak Hill Academy Warriors
2016 Nathan Hale High School Raiders
2017 Oak Hill Academy Warriors
2018 Sierra Canyon School Trailblazers
2019 Mater Dei High School Monarchs
2020 Cancelled due to COVID-19 Pandemic
2021 Link Academy Lions
2022 West Linn High School Lions

LSI participants named McDonald's All Americans
Carmelo Anthony |	Oak Hill Academy, Mouth of Wilson, VA 2001
Andre Barrett |	Rice High School, New York, NY 1999
Evan Burns |	Fairfax High School, Los Angeles, CA 2000
Tweety Carter |	Reserve Christian, Laplace, LA 2005
Tyson Chandler |	Dominguez High School, Compton, CA 2000
Eric Devendorf |	Oak Hill Academy, Mouth of Wilson, VA 2004
Mike Dunleavy Jr. |	Jesuit High School, Portland, OR 1998
Kevin Durant |	Oak Hill Academy, Mouth of Wilson, VA 2004
Ndudi Ebi |	Westbury Christian, Houston, TX 2002
Donté Greene |	Towson Catholic, Towson, MD 2005
JJ Hickson |	Wheeler High School, Marietta, GA 2006
Brandon Jennings |	Oak Hill Academy, Mouth of Wilson, VA 2006
Terrence Jones |	Jefferson High School, Portland, OR 2010
Doron Lamb |	Oak Hill Academy, Mouth of Wilson, VA 2009
Tywon Lawson |	Oak Hill Academy, Mouth of Wilson, VA 2004
Kevin Love |	Lake Oswego High School, Lake Oswego, OR	2007
Kyle Wiltjer |	Jesuit High School, Beaverton, OR 2011
Jaylen Brown |	Wheeler High School, Marietta, GA 2015
Ben Simmons |	Montverde Academy, Montverde, FL 2015
Michael Porter Jr |	Nathan Hale High School, Seattle, WA 2017
Keldon Johnson |	Oak Hill Academy, Mouth of Wilson, VA 2018
Vernon Carey Jr. |	NSU University School, Fort Lauderdale, FL 2019

Les Schwab Invitational NBA players
Carmelo Anthony – Oak Hill Academy / Portland Trail Blazers
Tyson Chandler – Dominguez H.S. / Chicago Bulls 2001–06, New Orleans Hornets 2006–09, Charlotte Bobcats 2009–10, Dallas Mavericks 2010-11 & 2014–15, New York Knicks 2011–14, Phoenix Suns 2015–2018, Los Angeles Lakers 2018
Kevin Durant – Oak Hill Academy / Seattle SuperSonics 2007–08, Oklahoma City Thunder 2008–2016, Golden State Warriors 2016–Present
Kevin Love – Lake Oswego H.S. / Miami Heat
Greg Monroe – Helen Cox H.S. / Toronto Raptors
Kemba Walker – Rice H.S. / Charlotte Hornets
Marvin Bagley III - Sierra Canyon H.S. / Detroit Pistons
Jaylen Brown - Wheeler H.S. / Boston Celtics
Markelle Fultz - Dematha H.S. / Orlando Magic
Aaron Gordon - Archbishop Mitty H.S. / Denver Nuggets
Dejounte Murray - Rainier Beach H.S. / Atlanta Hawks
Terrence Ross - Jefferson H.S. / Phoenix Suns
Ben Simmons - Montverde Academy / Brooklyn Nets
Jahlil Okafor - Whitney Young / New Orleans Pelicans
Michael Porter Jr - Nathan Hale HS / Denver Nuggets
Keldon Johnson - Oak Hill Academy / San Antonio Spurs
Payton Pritchard - West Linn H.S. / Boston Celtics
Scottie Barnes - University School / Toronto Raptors
Zach Collins - Bishop Gorman / San Antonio Spurs
Tari Eason - Garfield HS / Houston Rockets
Jerami Grant - DeMatha Catholic / Portland Trailblazers
Drew Eubanks - Reynolds HS / Portland Trailblazers
Kenyon Martin Jr. - Sierra Canyon / Houston Rockets
Jaylen Nowell - Garfield HS / Minnesota Timberwolves
Kevin Porter Jr. - Rainier Beach / Houston Rockets
JT Thor - Norcross HS / Charlotte Hornets

Sponsors
The current 2022 presenting sponsor is Express Employment Professionals. The tournament's key sponsors are Les Schwab Tires and Nike, both Oregon based companies.