Passage 1:
Carolina Moraes
Carolina Moraes (born 5 April 1980) is a former synchronized swimmer from Brazil. She competed in the women's duet competition with her twin sister, Isabela Moraes, at both the 2000 and 2004 Summer Olympics. Both also competed for Ohio State University, winning 11 national championships, including the team routine title in 2000, and four straight titles in duet and trio routines between 1999 and 2002. Following the Olympics, Carolina and Isabela retired and joined Cirque du Soleil, with their first performance being as part of the 2005 World Aquatics Championships opening ceremony. Both have been  part of the cast of Le Rêve, a show presented in Las Vegas since 2007, though Carolina is less frequent as she travels with her husband, part of Cirque du Soleil's technical team.
Passage 2:
Isabela Moraes
Isabela Moraes (born 5 April 1980) is a former synchronized swimmer from Brazil. She competed in the women's duet competition with her twin sister, Carolina Moraes, at both the 2000 and 2004 Summer Olympics.  Both also competed for Ohio State University, winning 11 national championships, including the team routine title in 2000, and four straight titles in duet and trio routines between 1999 and 2002. Following the Olympics, Carolina and Isabela retired and joined Cirque du Soleil, with their first performance being as part of the 2005 World Aquatics Championships opening ceremony. Isabela has been since 2007 part of Le Rêve, a show presented in Las Vegas.
Passage 3:
Zumanity
Zumanity (zoo-manity)  was a resident cabaret-style show by Cirque du Soleil at the New York-New York Hotel & Casino on the Las Vegas Strip, placed into the theatre previously occupied by Michael Flatley's Lord of the Dance (musical). The production was unveiled on September 20, 2003 (previews started on August 14, 2003) and had its last performance on March 14, 2020. It was announced on November 16, 2020 that the show would be closing permanently. It is the first "adult-themed" Cirque du Soleil show, billed as "the sensual side of Cirque du Soleil" or "another side of Cirque du Soleil". Created by René Richard Cyr and Dominic Champagne, Zumanity is a departure from the standard Cirque format. Intended to be for mature adult audiences only, this show is centered on erotic song, dance, acrobatics, and comedy.The inspiration to create Zumanity  came from multiple sources. Cirque du Soleil founder Guy Laliberté had been offered the chance to create two new shows in Las Vegas, and wanted something completely new and original rather than multiple similar shows that would cannibalize off of each other's sales and audiences. Another reason was that the New York-New York Hotel and Casino wanted to make their entertainment appear more "trendy." The hotel liked the concept of a more adult Cirque du Soleil performance.Laliberté admits that the biggest reason to produce this show was the chance to create something with riskier subject matter. He was interested in the idea of creating a show that explored human sexuality, something that was at complete odds with the other, more family-oriented Cirque du Soleil shows. "Our previous shows have all been family-oriented and politically correct, which is great," Laliberté said, "but we're human beings, we won't hide it. We're a bunch of happy campers. We like to live new experiences. Zumanity deals with some of those experiences."On February 22, 2022, Cirque du Soleil announced that a new show, "Mad Apple," would replace the Zumanity show at New York-New York Hotel and Casino, which opened on May 26, 2022.

Costumes
Thierry Mugler designed the costumes for Zumanity; he created the costumes to enhance the sensual atmosphere and heightened sexuality of the production.  Many of the costumes are highly colorful, yet some are minimal to an exaggerated extreme. Fur, feathers, leather, lace, fishnet stockings, velvet dresses, tiny corsets, cone bras, and plastic accessories were primary materials utilized to create the costumes' provocative appeal. Jonel's costume, for example, is made of stretch vinyl and is airbrushed to create a semi-nude effect; her bright red wig is made of expanded foam. Faun has fur on his pants which is made from toothbrush bristles, human hair, and yak fur. Molinier's long velvet dress was created by using a stencil and net onto which black silicone was applied. Though some characters are made to look entirely nude, the sex organs are fake pieces. Zumanity had Cirque's most expensive and elaborate costumes, the Rose Boy's g-string alone costing $75,000.
For a great selection of character costumes and concept art, see Le Grand Chapiteau - Zumanity - Personages

The Human Zoo
The lobby was created in European style, with an emphasis on curves. A long lighting fixture on the ceiling looked to be made of many strips of golden silk. One of the walls was lined with what looked to be a burgundy, padded headboard. Along the headboard, there were peepholes that originally were conceived to show clips of erotic, vintage films, but eventually showed promotional posters of the show. There was a large window filled with blue swirls, and a glowing, golden fixture in the wall that seemed to resemble a labia. Another window with a frame that looked like branches or vines showcased the "Amsterdam Room," which had one of the performers in it, dancing and teasing the guests in the lobby. You could talk to the performer through a phone built into the wall. The lamps were elegant and attached to the wall by arms that looked porous. There was a small nook with a couch you could lay on, usually with one of the performers. The grand staircase leading to the balconies also looked to be made of vines, or even nerves possibly symbolizing the sense of touch.
The theatre had 3 bars, the Eroticafés: two on the ground floor and one upstairs. They served sushi and various drinks, the highlight being the Zumanitini. The Zumanitini was 1 oz. Vodka Citron, 1/2 oz. Cherry Pucker, and a splash of Triple Sec, Sweet and Sour, and cranberry. Next to one of the bars was a small stage that looked like someone's bedroom. You would always find one of the cast members beckoning to the guests from the bed. The restrooms were unique in that you would hear whispering and teasing at each station. Different from the other shows, Zumanity had multiple performers roaming the lobby, always ready to playfully flirt and take photos.
Entering the theatre itself, you'd find yourself in a cabaret, smaller and more intimate than the other resident Cirque du Soleil Las Vegas shows. The stage looked to be a marble parquet, with elegant, red curtains and two spiral staircases on either side. Above the stage was a bridge that the band played from, which could move up and down. Many chandeliers hung around the stage. The walls were lined with very dimly lit lamps. The carpet featured naked women in a style that looked similar to a Renaissance or Baroque painting. Around the back sides of the stage were barstools, and around the front circle of the stage were loveseats - special options on top of the normal theatre seating.
When the curtains opened, a giant structure called "The Wave" was exposed. These were two massive, wavey screens that images could be projected on. The screens could be moved into different positions.
The shop contained all sorts of novelties, from Zumanitini glasses to chocolate soap bars. Naturally, one could also find various adult-themed items.

The Show: 2003 - 2005
Animation
"Through a series of scene transitions, this comedic quartet supplies the counterpoint to all that is erotic and provocative about ZUMANITY. In a show filled with serious sexual tension, Spymonkey is a reminder of the importance of having a laugh at ourselves and having fun in the bedroom!"Spymonkey was composed of Toby Park, Petra Massey, Aitor Basauri Barruetabena, and Stephan Kreiss
Eliot Douglass plays a jazzy cabaret tune on the piano as the Molinier stands by with a cigarette. Zumans descend the spiral staircases to walk among the audience, with some stripping on stage. Luciene and Licemar Medeiros, twin sisters in showy French maid outfits, brush up against audience members in the aisles as they feed them strawberries. Antonio Drija, Zumanity's resident Gigolo, flirts with audience members, passes out calling cards, and takes polaroids. The Puritans, Spymonkey dressed up as Quakers, take to the stage protesting the show's obscenities, while ironically being a bit sexual themselves.Welcome, "Hello boys, hello girls"
"Half-lit cigarette, empty martini glass, all these chicks lined up in a row on a street with no name in a city that never sleeps."
The Puritans are booted off stage. Joey Arias, our "Mistress of Seduction" madame, emcee and drag artist, sings a jazzy tune in her sensuous, smokey voice reminiscent of Billie Holiday. She then welcomes and warms the audience up for the coming show with laughs and very personal questions for the guests.Warnings, "Rules of the House"
Lonnie Gordon, acclaimed dance, pop, and R&B singer, takes the stage, singing a song that highlights some things about the effects of the show that may surprise audiences, and what is prohibited. Eventually, Corinne Zarzour, Zumanity's rock diva, would join her.Extravaganza
“Blaring horns and hammering drums announce the beginning of the fanfare. One by one the cast makes its fashionable entrance, parading down the catwalk in costumes every bit as vibrant, bold, and diverse as their spectrum of talents and personalities. It’s an incandescent introduction to the colorful cast of performers who will guide the audience on their journey into the world of ZUMANITY.”Wind and Wassa
"We summon the spirits of passion and hope."
"All at once a storm sweeps over the stage as Marcela [de la Vega Luna], Queen of the Wind, summons the spirits in a fevered flamenco dance. With smoldering intensity, her hypnotic trance stirs the soul, arouses the imagination and prepares the senses for an uninhibited transformation."
"Marcela awakens the unbridled passion in Wassa [Coulibaly]. Exploding into a vigorous African dance, her arms, legs and torso take on a primal energy of their own, flying erratically and erotically in rhythm to the intoxicating tribal pulse."Water Bowl
"Do you remember that first hint of something delicious and strange? Of water on parched lips? Or that very first glass of champagne? Do you remember how, in one magical moment, everything changed?"
"Abandoning their innocence, contortionists Gyula [Gyulnara Karaeva] and Bolormaa [Zorigtkhuyag] bathe in inhibition and taste love for the first time. Fluidly they glide through the water striking a sensual array of inconceivable poses to explore the limits of physicality, sexuality and creativity all at once."
Cirque's Amaluna would also showcase a water bowl act years later in 2012.Hoops
"Oh, innocence: so fleeting, so fragile. One day the sweet young thing, the next thing you know, you're soaking wet and lying naked in a hotel room in Vegas. Story of my life: 'what goes around, comes around.'"
"Julia [Kolosova] brings to life the school girl fantasy. She gyrates and swivels as she guides her hoops up and down her lithe frame, ultimately engulfing her body. Then, without warning, the dream takes flight as she soars through the air performing daring feats of aerial choreography."
Julia hula hooped in midair while swinging around the theatre.The Rose Boy
"I've been looking at all these beautiful, sexy, wonderful women up on stage tonight, and I know some of you are wondering, 'Where's the beef?' Does anybody want some roses?"
"Alex [Castro] peels away the tough exterior to expose his weakness... for the ladies. He tantalizes and teases the audience by revealing his chiseled body bit by bit in a sinfully seductive striptease."Pom Poms
Spymonkey comes out entirely nude (the privates were prosthetics) and teases the audience by covering themselves only by pom poms, which they remove to give quick flashes of their bodies. At one point, one of the members crawls over the audience's seats with his privates getting entangled in guests' hair.Body2Body
"These days I live for the elicit tingle of skin on skin, the taste of sweat, and the pungent scent of passion. How about you? Are there parts of your lover's body you've left unexplored, untouched, untasted? Well, my only question is, "What are you waiting for?'"
"Sara [Joel] and Stéphan [Choinière] entwine in a tantric, hand-balancing duet that underscores the beauty of sex. Featuring a breath-taking array of Kama Sutra-inspired maneuvers, their act portrays the discovery of a lover’s body with dramatic strength, flexibility and trust."
The artists maneuver their bodies into various shapes, making living, human sculptures. Body2Body can be related to hand-2-hand, although it is done quite differently. The performers use their entire bodies to lift each other, and the act has high emphasis on choreography.Expressions and Dislocation
Expressions: Interlude into Dislocation where the Fauna [Jesse Villa] breakdances on the stage.
Dislocation: "Limber Lothario, Moukhtar [Gusengadzhiev], performs on command for his sadomasochistic sirens, who derive pleasure from watching him squirm. Redefining flexibility, his elastic body bends, twists, and contorts into nature-defying positions that inspire both 'awes' and 'ows.'"Dance on TV
"Gorgeous good girl, Elena [Gatilova], breaks out of her shell to grab her lover’s attention. Turning up the heat on love gone flat, she ignites the scene with her feminine wiles, sultry gymnastics and dance to rekindle the flame and make her lover see her again as if for the very first time."
This act features a television set in the middle of the stage, with multiple men watching the sports game playing on the set. Elena dances on the TV, trying to get their attention. Eventually she succeeds and the sports game turns to static. Zumanity's other female dances take the stage, and they all remove their tops and dance on chairs for the men.2Men
"Tumultuous lovers Patrick [King] and Johan [King Silverhult] tango in the throes of passion. Through their fierce choreography unfolds a love story between two deities, Love and War. Again and again they attract and repel in intense conflict until the magnetic energy between them becomes more than they can bear."
Patrick and Johan perform a violent dance in a cage, symbolizing fighting. They are sparring over Marcela, who dances in the background in a flamenco dress, egging them on. As the fight goes on, it becomes softer and more sensual, and the brilliant red light behind Marcela starts to grow smaller. The fighters eventually lose all focus on Marcela, give one big, passionate kiss, and walk off the stage together, to Marcela's great dismay.Revenge of the Doll
Spymonkey reappears to shed their sexual inhibitions. One of them carries a sex doll onto the stage, preparing to have fun with it. He is chased by a few of the others dressed as policemen. When he comes back out, the doll comes to life to hump the audience members and the cast. Originally, there was also a segment where Spymonkey used gags to mock some of the previous acts, much like in Cirque's Dralion.Savage Love, Market, Fire, and Aerial Straps
"Are you still hiding from monsters under your bed? Skeletons in your closet? Follow me to a place where rules are broken and pleasure dances with pain. Just be careful what you ask for... you might just get exactly what you deserve."
Market, part 1: First, arabesque music plays as the Boteros juggle dildos, Zumans flail in chains, and Jonel Earl dances with a whip. The interlude resembles a sadomasochistic circus. This act originally contained 2 pythons, Adam and Yves, some of Cirque's only animals ever used in its shows. This interlude would remain in the show until its closing.
Fire: Fire was only in the show for a few weeks, but it featured Heidi Good and Jila Alaghamandan in very showy S&M leather outfits as they performed a fire dance. Androgynous Cape ["Almukatab" Jacobo Espina] also danced with one of the snakes. This act was removed from the show because Guy Laliberté, Cirque's founder, did not want a fire act in the show. The smoke left in the air after the act also made it difficult for the Straps artist to perform.
Savage Love: It is unknown when exactly this act was in the show, but it is believed to be either the replacement for Fire or a back-up act. This act featured Vanessa Convery and Ugo Mazin violently dancing in the 2Men cage. See reference for a video of the act.
Market, part 2 (also called Inferno in press releases): "Pleasure dances with pain as ZUMANITY’s resident gigolo, Antonio [Drija], feels the wrath of the women [Jonel Earl, Laetitia Ray, Vanessa Convery, Sophie Ayache, and Agnès Roux] he has scorned. Captured by a militia of vixens in a barred prison cell he finds himself caught in the middle of rough-and-tumble romantic revenge."This act replaced either Fire or Savage Love, and was in the show until around 2005. There was also a version of it that used 7 men and 1 woman.
Straps: "Laurence [Jardin], alone on stage in fragile silence, is bound by her straps. An exercise in self-inflicted pleasure and pain, she uses the leather contraption to tease and torture herself. All the while she watches her bonds ease into auto-erotic aerial maneuvers. Scored by heavy breathing, gentle moans of ecstasy and the friction of her straps, Laurence’s self-satisfying bondage flight draws to a climactic finale."From 2005 and onwards, Market, referred to above as "part 1," would lead directly into straps.S&M Hoedown
Spymonkey comes onstage dressed in S&M leather with various pain-inducing items. They do a hoedown dance while inflicting pain on themselves as a sexual stimulant.Sheets and Tissus
Sheets: An opening interlude to Tissus," this is a short ballet where the dancers had silken, white sheets on their hands that they danced with.
Tissus: "Though he desperately tries to catch her attention, Alan [Jones Silva] passes unnoticed by the glamorous goddess Olga [Vershinina]. Finally, the once unattainable object of his affection is within arms reach as their two worlds entwine mid-flight in mesmerizing aerial dance."Midnight Bath
"Let your imagination have free reign. Let your fantasies take you to unexpected places."
"With the suggestion that you can’t keep love locked up in a bedroom, Vanessa [Convery] and Ugo [Mazin] give imagination free reign and let fantasy take them to unexpected places. Using milk as their medium they caress each other’s flesh in this luscious lactic sexual experiment."As the name suggests, this act was performed in a bathtub in the middle of the stage. The act was opened by another jazz number from Joey Arias: "Touch me, hold me, never let me go."Orgy, has been referred to in the show as Lazy Susan of Sex, Sex Station 69, Garden of Delights, and Zumanitarium
"The cast emerges from every orifice of the theatre in search of hedonistic prey. In duos, trios (and some flying solo), they assume a smörgåsbord of sexual positions on the Lazy Susan of Sex, where they touch, stroke, moan and embrace until the tension builds to an orgasmic conclusion."This is an audience participation segment. Antonio would lead two members of the audience onto the stage, usually one male and one female. Each would be given to a few of the cast members that would try to arouse them based on their sexual orientation. Antonio usually caressed and rubbed up against the female as the emcee would ask personal questions and make sexual innuendos. The emcee would then move on to the male and try to arouse him. If he was okay with it, his shirt and pants would be removed by the time the emcee got to him. Joey Arias would stick her microphone into his underwear and speak into it.Pacemakers and Finale
"Bringing the show full circle, senior-most members of the cast, Birgit and Fleming [Thomsen], surprise the audience with an astonishing hand balancing adagio. Together they defy time and gravity with physical feats of strength, flexibility and control. This real life couple, married for over 48 years, is a testament to the enduring, everlasting nature of true love."
Birgit and Fleming were sitting in the audience and brought on stage as "guests," when in reality they were cast members and would break into acrobatics.

The Show: 2005 - 2015
There were various changes throughout 2005, from acts to costumes. The Body2Body artists left the show and the act was replaced by Hand-to-Hand. Spymonkey also left and the "Sexperts," Dick and Izzy, replaced them for the remainder of Zumanity's run. While Pom Poms stayed in the show through 2014 (and would feature Dick, Izzy, and the Boteros), all of the other clown acts were new. Pacemakers and Extravaganza would also be changed around 2006, when Extravaganza was moved to the end of the show and Pacemakers left permanently.

Dick and Izzy: "Zumanity’s resident sex therapists, Dick [Nicky Dewhurst] and Izzy [Shannan Calcutt] aim to please with their sexy and silly methods engaging the audience in a hilarious round of not-so-innocent repartee. The sexual tension runs high as Dick, a French sex merchant, peddles his wares, while Izzy, his wife!, searches the audience night after night for a boyfriend."Animation: Instead of the Puritans, Dick and Izzy come out dressed in 1950s-esque prom outfits. Both hit on various members of the audience and try to swing with the couples. They make sexual innuendos with bananas and fence with dildos.
Scotch Baggies!: Izzy pitches her new business - little plastic sandwich baggies that she fills with scotch (in reality, tea) to use instead of breast implants. She removes her top and has one of the male members from the audience hold the baggies to her breasts as she tapes them to herself. "You are not going to see this at the Celine Dion show."
Knives (possibly called Sex Toys): Volunteers from the audience is strapped to a board and blindfolded while tricked into thinking knives are being thrown at them.
Vegas Hook-Up (also referred to as Express Dating): Audience members are once again brought on stage. Dick and Izzy explain that it's better to forget all of the normal wooing on a first date and go straight for the bedroom. They teach the audience members how to turn each other on. Then, they make them get onto a bed and ride each other as they sink into the stage and silly string shoots up.Hand-2-Hand
"In an aggressive but intimate hand-balancing duet, [Joanie Leroux-Côté] and [Nicolas Alain Michel Besnard] entwine in a powerful act with breathtaking acrobatic-inspired manoeuvres. Their flawless movements thrust the two kindred spirits into a provocative tale of lust."I Like It
Back-up act where Joey Arias would sing another jazz song.
"Oh, What a Feelin" may have also been sung more than during Joey's final performance.Mistress of Sensuality, Edie
"Part showgirl, part cabaret queen, Mistress of Sensuality Edie [Christopher Kenney] plays hostess to your every fantasy. As the sun sets and desires come alive, Edie uses her signature blend of sass and sensuality to guide the audience through the erotic escapades that make up the world of Zumanity."
Joey Arias left the show at the end of 2007, and Edie became Zumanity's main emcee for the rest of the run.Roue Cyr (Cyr Wheel)
"Jonas [Woolverton] is brought to the stage on his knees.  A slave to love and forced to perform for his Mistress, he spins and turns inside his wheel while she cracks her whip. He is eager to please, even donning a blindfold for some of his tricks. One can only hope the pleasure is worth the pain he receives..."Handbalancing
"Dima ["Shine" Bulkin] is alone, going in circles around his pole. He has just about given up on love when he meets a lovely contortionist who seems to fit into his world. She brings him back to earth in this beautiful act."Chains
"Brandon [Pereyda] brings fantasies to life. He flies and defies gravity on his chains. Dreams take flight as he soars through the air, performing daring feats of aerial athleticism choreography and strength."
Though this act is associated with the refresh in 2015, Zumanity's 2012 b-roll shows this act being used. It was most likely a back-up or rotational act until it was made a main act in 2015.

The Refresh: 2015 - 2020
On January 20, 2015, a refresh of the show was introduced to the public in which roughly 30% of the show was changed from its original concept. Certain acts, including Hoops, Dance on TV, Pom Poms and  Tissus (in its original form) were retired. Entirely new acts included chains, Aerial Dream, and Perfect Jam. Tissus was changed into a solo act and the Rose Boy evolved into Magnum, mostly the same routine but the dancer became a secret agent. Yanis Marshall choreographed new dance segments throughout the show, and there are multiple acts in which men dance in high heels (including Wind, Perfect Jam and for a short amount of time, the 2Men act). The show also features new and updated music, costumes, comedic acts, characters and artists.

Come Together
"All at once, a storm sweeps over the stage as three characters, Spirits of the Wind [Marie Ndutiye, Tiffany de Alba, Arnaud Boursain], summon passion, desire and lust in a fevered dance. With smouldering intensity, their hypnotic dance stirs the soul, arouses the imagination and prepares the senses for an uninhibited transformation."Magnum
"Look out, ladies, 'cuz here comes Magnum. He's an undercover agent, and it's no secret he's on a mission. Who's gonna share that special bond? Is it you? Catch him if you can."
"Magnum [Willie Hulett], our very special secret agent, peels away his tough exterior in a sensual mission for the ladies. He tantalizes and teases the audience by revealing his chiseled body bit by bit before showing off his secret weapon."Perfect Jam
"Let me entice you to unlock and unleash your inner diva."
"Gorgeous, and powerful, the dancers [Tiffany de Alba, Anouck Margueritte, Briana McKee, Marie Ndutiye, Kaitlyn Reese Davin, Leah Sykes-Hodgson, Monteece Taylor, Arnaud Boursain, Pepe Muñoz Martinez] invade the space to express and celebrate their female and male energy and unleash their inner diva. Turning up the heat, they ignite the stage performing a sultry and dynamic dance that will entice the imagination."Aerial Dream (also called M&M)
"Is there someone in your life that you lust for, long for, but the only safe place to rendezvous is in your dreams? You fall asleep and hope he's there again tonight. The best part? Nobody needs to know, not even the person right next to you, shhh..."
"One woman and one man [Marina Tomanova and Michael McNamara]. One bed. One airborne fantasy. She dreams about him, the intense secret object of her desires. They will meet and experience a magnificent, sensual and passionate performance. Dream or reality?"2Men
"2 men in a cage [Arnaud Boursain, Pepe Muñoz Martinez]. Through their fierce choreography, a passionate story of impossible love and anger unfolds. Again and again, they attract and repel in intense conflict until the magnetic energy between them becomes more than they can bear."As previously stated, the big thing that changed about this act was that the men danced in bright red heels and in an entirely new form of dance.
This was eventually changed into a wushu (sport) act with ninjas [Philip Sahagun and Wes Scarpias].Tissus 2.0
"Though he desperately tries to catch her attention, Alan [Jones Silva] remains unnoticed by Mariko [Muranaka], the musical muse whose beauty propels him to soar to new heights. Finally, the once-unattainable object of his affection is within arms’ reach, and their two worlds come together at the finale of this mesmerizing aerial dance."Body2Body 2.0
Used as a back-up for hand-2-hand, Stéphan Choinière returned to the show in 2017 and performed a new version of Body2Body with Tsvetelina Tabakova.Solo Strap
A solo strap back-up act that was performed by Tsvetelina Tabakova from 2019 onwards.Light
A comedic act with Dick and Izzy as they rave on the stage with one of the audience members.Trapeze
Halfway around the world, his loved one is away. It's raining, and descending in his thoughts are the warmth of her love, the softness of her lips, the caress of her touch... It’s late, he’s restless and alone again tonight, and not knowing when they’ll be together again sends his emotions flying."
Arthur Morel van Hyfte's act in 2017. This used the bed and music from Aerial Dream and replaced the act for awhile.

Emcees
Main emcees
Mistress of Seduction, Joey Arias: August 14, 2003 to December 31, 2007
Raven O: August 14, 2003 to December 31, 2006
Mistress of Sensuality, Edie [Christopher Kenney]: Jan 1, 2008 to March 14, 2020Understudy emcees
Queen of Québec, Vanessa Convery: back-up for an unknown time, but she was in the show from August 14, 2003 to January 3, 2014
Señorita Extravaganza, Antonio Drija: back-up for an unknown time, but he was in the show from August 14, 2003 to January 3, 2014
AXLE Beaurouge [Brandon Pereyda]: May 1, 2017 to March 14, 2020
Pepe Muñoz Martinez: roughly 2014 to 2016
Pulga, Alan Jones Silva: July 18, 2016 to March 14, 2020Guest emcee
NeNe Leakes: June 27, 2014 to July 01, 2014

Characters
Mistress of Seduction/Mitzi la Bouche/Mitzi la Gaine/Mistress of Ceremonies - Joey Arias
Mistress of Sensuality, Edie - Christopher Kenney
Pulga - Alan Jones Silva as emcee
AXLE Beaurouge - Brandon Pereyda as emcee
Queen of Québec - Vanessa Convery as emcee
Señorita Extravaganza - Antonio Drija as emcee
Wind/La Muerte - Marcela de la Vega Luna
Dick and Izzy/The Sexperts - Nicky Dewhurst and Shannan Calcutt
Afrique/African Queen - Wassa Coulibaly
Ginger - Shereen Hickman as clown understudy to Izzy
Jane - clown understudy to Izzy
Jessica - Laetitia Dewhurst as clown understudy to Izzy
Rose Boy - Alex Castro
Spider Shadow - Dima "Shine" Bulkin
Magnum - Willie Hulett
Blue Robotica - Mariko Muranaka
Biker - Brandon Pereyda
Fauna - Jesus Villa
Athon and Arno Extravaganza/The Gods of Love and War - Patrick King (Athon) and Johan King-Silverhult (Arno)
Molinier (see Pierre Molinier) - Jonel Earl
Botero Sisters - Licemar and Luciene Medeiros
Casanova/Gigolo/El Siete - Antonio Drija
Miss Salsa - Agnès Roux
Mec Branché - Ugo Mazin
Mademoiselle Loup/Blue Blade - Laurence Jardin
Dominatrix - Jonel Earl
Ballerine - Sophie Ayache
Comet - Stéphan Choinière (originally called Ultraman during creation, after the Japanese super hero)
Romantique/Vixen Vanessa/Diamond Girl - Vanessa Convery
Scottish Fantasy - Alex Stabler
Tissu Star - Olga Vershinina
Airman - Nicolas Alain Michel Besnard
Androgynous Cape - "Almukatab" Jacobo Espina
Carol/La Catin - Elena Gatilova
Valentino
Bunny Girl
Lothario - Moukhtar Gusengadzhiev
Roadrunner - Jerónimo Garcia-Cabral Medina
Illusia and Illaria
Queen of Barbare - seems to be Jila Alaghamandan

Music
The studio album for Zumanity was released on March 22, 2005, under Cirque du Soleil's music label. This is an "inspired by" album containing music that was not actually used in the show and was very loosely based on the live music. This is similar to the songs If I Could Reach Your Heart, We've Been Waiting So Long, and Reach for Me Now on the KÀ album. The CD does not feature Zumanity's musicians, although it does contain the voice of Joey Arias and that of Anna Liani, who worked with Zumanity's composer, Simon Carpentier, on the show's music and wrote the lyrics to Mio Bello, Bello Amore. She also sings Mio Bello, Bello Amore on Cirque's Midnight Sun DVD. The music on the album is mainly a collaboration between Simon Carpentier, Robbi Finkel, and Robbie Dillon.
A promotional album entitled Foreplay was included with the original program. It was released on July 31, 2003, and contains select work-in-progress songs from the show's creation period. The program was last sold around 2005, and this album is now considered a collector's item. Four other work-in-progress songs were released on Zumanity's website in 2003, all completely different from anything used in the show, although one of them was quite clearly an early version of Wind.

Names for live music:

Zumanity Tango (2Men, 2003-2020)
Sex Is Beautiful (Body2Body, 2003-2005; Body2Body 2.0, 2017-2020; Hand-2-Hand, 2005-2020)
Love Myself (possible name for Straps, 2003-2020)
Girl Attitude (Cyr Wheel, ?-2018)
Libera me (Hoops, 2003-2015; Aerial Dream, 2015-2020; Trapeze, 2017)
The tune to this song was changed from 2015 onwards.
I Like It (Rotational act sung by Joey Arias and possibly Raven O, 2005(?)-2007)
What a Feelin’ (Act sung by Joey Arias during her final performance on December 31, 2007)
The Rose Boy (Rose Boy, 2003-2015; Magnum, 2015-2020)
My Erotic Lounge (Scotch Baggies!, 2005-2020)
Major-Minor (Welcome, 2003-2007)
Wind (Wind, 2003-2015; Come Together, 2015-2020)
Mio Bello, Bello Amore (Pacemakers, 2003-2006(?); Handbalancing, 2010-2018; Solo Strap, 2019-2020)
Disco Alan (Tissus 2.0, 2015-2020)
The opening of this song contains an instrumental medley of Wind and Mio Bello, Bello Amore.
Into Me (Chains, 2012(?)-2020)
Water Bowl (Water Bowl, 2003-2020)
Perfect Jam (Perfect Jam, 2015-2020)
First Taste (Water Bowl opening, 2003-2020)

Vocalists
Emcee
See the Emcee section above for a list of the hosts of the show. The emcee sang Major-Minor for Welcome, Midnight Bath, Sex Is Beautiful, the Rose Boy, and I Like It from August 14, 2003 to December 31, 2007. From 2008 onwards, the emcee only sang during the Rose Boy and Sex Is Beautiful. The songs sung by the emcee are mainly in the jazz/cabaret genre.Hip Hop Singer
Kinnie Starr: August 14, 2003 to September 2003
Little is known about this period in Zumanity's history, but Kinnie may have sung some of the rock singer's songs for acts like Dance on TV and Water Bowl.R&B/Soul Singer
Lonnie Gordon: August 13, 2003 to December 31, 2006
Debbie "Divine" Davis: January 2007 to December 31, 2007
Paris Red: January 1, 2008 to March 14, 2020
Cassiopée: August 2017 to December 2017
Cassiopée also sang as a back-up for both the R&B and rock roles, depending on which one was needed, during 2016 to 2020.Rock Singer
Corinne Zarzour: October 3, 2003 to January 2004; September 2004 to March 14, 2020
Nathalie Noël: January 2004 to September 2004
Laur Fugère: 2004; 2006Backing Singer
Geneviève Dubé: August 14, 2003 to March 14, 2020
Melle Vasquez: August 14, 2003 to March 14, 2020
Anne Charbonneau: August 14, 2003 to December 2008

Original Musicians
Anne Charbonneau (bandleader/accordion/keyboards/keyboard programming) - August 14, 2003 to December 2008
Jean-François "Djeff" Houle (assistant bandleader/bass/programming/laptop fx) - August 14, 2003 to 2006(?)
Jean-François Blais (clarinet/flute/soprano and tenor saxophone/percussion) - August 14, 2003 to March 14, 2020
Jean-François Thibeault (trombone/percussion) - August 14, 2003 to June 2009
Larry Aberman (drums/percussion/programming) - August 14, 2003 to October 31, 2019
Melle Vasquez (guitar/percussion/banjo) - August 14, 2003 to March 14, 2020
Geneviève Dubé (vibraphone/violin) - August 14, 2003 to March 14, 2020
Eliot Douglass (piano) - August 14, 2003 to October 31, 2019
Lonnie Gordon (percussion) - August 14, 2003 to December 31, 2006
Sébastien Jean (flügelhorn/trumpet) - August 14, 2003 to October 31, 2019
Passage 4:
Mystère (Cirque du Soleil)
Mystère (French: [mis.tɛʁ], mee-STAIR, "mystery") is one of six resident Cirque du Soleil shows in Las Vegas, Nevada. Held in a custom theatre at the Treasure Island Hotel and Casino, the show was first performed on 25 December 1993, making it the company's longest running show. As with many Cirque du Soleil productions, Mystère features a mixture of circus skills, dance, elaborate sets, opera, worldbeat music, and street theatre-style comedy. Featuring a musical score composed by René Dupéré and Benoît Jutras, the show was created under the direction of Franco Dragone.

History
The idea for Mystère started around 1990. It was originally planned for Caesars Palace with a theme based on Greek and Roman mythology. The plan, however, was scrapped by the casino executives, who thought the project would be too financially risky. Mystère was very different from the typical material they were used to in a Las Vegas show. According to Mystère set designer Michel Crête, "Vegas... was still very influenced by Folies Bergère, with the scarves, feather boas, etc. There was a European culture already in place, oddly enough, not an American one. The people who opened the door for something new were Siegfried and Roy. They were the first to move away from the Folies Bergère thing."
Treasure Island picked up the show three years later. Mystère was their first show that would have its own theater, rather than touring with a circus tent.  Mystère would have a permanent base in Las Vegas. They worked with Mirage Casino-Hotel to produce a show.
Recent milestones Mystère has achieved include:

Mystère celebrated their 20th anniversary on 25 December 2013  
Mystère celebrated their 10,000th show on 27 December 2014.
Mystère celebrated their 11,111th show on 17 May 2017.

Set and technical information
The theater is a unique theater built in the Treasure Island Hotel and Casino specifically for the show. The design of the theater was created by Michel Crête and that of Montreal-based team of Scéno Plus. This theater seats 1,541 audience members. The stage measures 120 feet by 70 feet deep and covers approximately 10,032 square feet. The stage floor is made of a layer of Base Mat, which is rubber made from recycled old tires and sneakers. This helps give the stage some bounce for tumbling. This is held together by polyurethane adhesive and covered with thousands of gallons of liquid that dries onto the surface. The Downstage D Lift is 36 feet in diameter and includes a 28-foot revolving stage. The revolving stage rotates up to 10 revolutions per minute. Props, equipment, and performers are elevated to stage level from the basement or trap by four moving lifts. These moving lifts were constructed in Montreal and then assembled in Las Vegas, NV.The snail seen growing larger throughout the show is called Alice. By the end of the show, she is a giant inflatable puppet controlled by four puppeteers from the inside. The puppeteers move her around by following markings on the floor, since they can not see outside the puppet. They also control her eyes, torso, and tail.The taiko drums in Mystère are created by the Japanese company Asano Taiko, located in Mattō, Ishikawa Prefecture. The largest drum in Mystère is the ōdaiko, which is 6 feet (1.8 m) in diameter and 15 feet (4.6 m) in length, and weighs half a ton. Due to the large size of the drum, it had to be brought into the theatre during construction. Since the completion of the theatre the drum can not be removed, as no door is large enough to accommodate it.

Characters
The cast of Mystère comprises a myriad of fantastic and mysterious characters. All this information was confirmed by Mystère's artistic director from 1995 to 2001: Pavel Brun.
Inti X & Y (Spermatos/Spermatites): A comic chorus representing the seeds of life.
Red Bird: Convinced he can fly. According to Pavel Brun, he is the main character in the entire narrative of Mystère's universe.
Les Laquais: The "lackeys" of Mystère who serve and support others. They perform in the Korean plank act.
Brian Le Petit: A troublemaker who steals people's popcorn and causes chaos both onstage and off. (2000–present)
Chanteuses Plumes: A duo of muses who sing the emotion of all humans.
The Firebirds: Along with the Double Faces, they perform the Chinese pole act.
Les Bébés: Two enormous babies on a quest for nourishment. There's Big Baby (also known as Bébé François) and the Baby Girl. There was a third baby for a short period, similar to Francois, who was a part of the original 1993 cast, until his eventual removal in Mid-1994.
Egon Egli: A strange, lanky, bespectacled youth who rides across the stage on his bicycle. No longer in the show.
La Vache à lait: Protector of youth and a symbol of fertility. When he sounds his horn, it heralds a new beginning.
Moha-Samedi: A man in pink, named after the first day of the new millennium. He is the narrator no one listens to, he was originally portrayed by Canadian actor Paul Ahmarani and later by Lorenzo Pisoni.
La Belle: Afraid of ugliness, she seeks to avoid pain at all costs.
Black Widow: The antithesis of La Belle. She represents a praying mantis who destroys the illusions and dreams of her victims. Originally portrayed by Katie Renauld
Birds of Prey: These unpredictable birds soar and fly throughout the world of Mystère. They are graceful, yet aggressive when hungry. Originally portrayed by Lejdka Zievert and Mark Ward
The Frog: Creepy characters witness to the strength of birth and time.
The Green Lizards: Mischievous and skittish chameleons. There is the Male Chameleon and the Female Chameleon (who are not present in the show anymore). The Male Chameleon was originally portrayed by Karl Baumann
Double Faces: These two-faced creatures perform in the Chinese pole act.
Les Palmiers: Out of a purple-blue mist, these tropical ladies float by.
Deus ex machina: The machine that regulates the existence of everything.
The Tribe (Les Pagnes): The primitive, tragic ghosts of modern humanity. They descend from the skies to provide the earthly beat of our journey. They welcome us, and they bid us farewell. They perform in Taïko
Monarch Bird: A male bird introduced in 2022 as backup dancing character.
The Prince of the Darkness: The prince of the dark side of Mystère, performed by Miguel Godreau from 1993 to 1994; he left the show for health reasons and is no longer in the show. Left before the premiere due to complications from HIV. He was originally part of the group of dancers containing La Belle, Birds Of Prey, Green Lizard and Black Widow.
La Banane: A yellow creature with a large, bulbous head that performed with some artists from 1993 to 1995; no longer in the show. originally appeared on the Net-Up set, before Flying Trapeze.
The Shaman: A mysterious man who creates the sounds of the world; no longer in the show. Originally portrayed by Luis Perez
Bungee Warrior: A duo of muscle men able to fly in the air.
The Jugglers: A trio of jugglers that performed the Manipulation act from 1993 to 1995; no longer in the show.
The Cube Man: Exhibiting great strength and courage, he captures the attention of young souls in search of wonder.; no longer in the show. Originally played by Mikhail "Misha" Matorin, and later Paul Bowler
The Mountain Man: An archangel who is ready to sacrifice everything. Originally known as Gabriel reffereing his archangel statut.
Mephisto and Vénus: Part of the Giants race, they are thwarted, twisted creatures. Their presence wreaks havoc in any domain. Together they want to create chaos and destroy the balance that exists within the world of Mystère.
The Giants: A gentle race with feathers and long legs. There's the happy-go-lucky Pumpkin Giant, the grumpy Fly Giant, the magnificent Giraffe Giant, the rare Plume Giant (no longer in the show) and the Egg Giant, a delicate interior inside a protective shell.
Stas Greyner: a kind of playful dwarf. Performs handbalancing since 1998.
The Medusa: A long-appendaged creature that was part of the original cast between 1993 and 1995; no longer in the show. Appeared among the smoke and disappeared among the shadows, performed during the Net-Set Up.
The Wheel Rider: A slightly tattered man who performed the German Wheel act from 1995 to 1997; no longer in the show. Originally played by Wolfgang Bientzle
The Green Man: A curly-horned creature similar to a Satyr that was part of the cast from a short period in 1997, no longer in the show. Originally portrayed by Guennadi Tchijov.
Tony: A living doll that was part of the original cast between 1993 and 1995, Originally portrayed by Tony Manducas; no longer in the show.
 The Zucchinis: Two inflatable marionettes only used in the Net Set-up for the original trapeze act; no longer in the show.
The Egg: An egg-like creature who appeared sometimes during the Overture and Bungee acts from 1993 to 1995; no longer in the show.
Alice the Escargot: An enormous snail. Born from a spring rain, carrier of the souls of the ancestors and herald of the future.
The Bungees: Like majestic birds in flight, the Bungees dive fearlessly through the air, creating images of unison and separation.
Benny Le Grand: Mystère's original clown, a mad professor-esque character who was more dark and bitter. He would often cause mischief either by whacking one of the Spermatos with a drumstick, throwing a loaf of bread at the red bird, drenching people with bottled water, interrupting the show as an impromptu tour guide, throwing around silver dollars, popcorn, and women's purses, harassing ticket holders, discouraging guests from seeing the show, or kidnapping an audience member and driving them around in a golf cart. (1993 - 1995, 1996 - 2000)
Alex El Sobrino: Benny Le Grand's Spanish nephew, who was slightly more refined in personality. (1998 - 2000)
Alfredo et Adrenaline: A comedic duo of clowns who had previously appeared in Le Cirque Reinventé's European tour, and the special Zirkus Knie show. They often bickered with each other while trying to entertain the audience, from Alfredo trying to perform as a mime, to the two of them throwing paint at each other while trying to perform a song, but they soon literally kissed and made up. (1995 - 1996)

Acts
Mystère features several acrobatic acts, supplemented by clown acts and transitional scenes that advance the storyline.
Aerial Straps Duo (2017 – present): A pair of aerialists performs twists and turns as they fly over the stage.
Chinese Poles and Hand Balancing (2012–present): A group of acrobats climb up, jump between, and slide down four adjacent metal poles while an acrobat contorts into poses on two balancing canes on a platform above the Chinese poles.
Hand-to-Hand (1993 – present): Two artists perform an exhibition of strength and stamina on a rotating dome.
Bungee (1993 – present): A group of artists bounce and swing from the ceiling to the ground and back on bungees.
Teeterboard and Power Track (2017–present): Artists perform a combination of these two skills.
Taiko (1993 – present): A group of artists perform powerful rhythms on Japanese taiko drums.
Flying trapeze (2012 – present): Unlike the original version where two separate trapeze towers were surrounded by a platform on one side and an aerial cradle on the other, the current version has a platform on either side. Each trapeze tower now has two trapeze bars swinging beside each other. The act and music were originally from Zed (a resident show at Tokyo Disney Resort) which closed in 2011.

Reserve acts
Aerial Straps (1994, 2002 – present)On reserve for the aerial straps duo; features a single artist on straps with the Black Widow or La Belle performing choreography on stage.

Retired acts
Manipulation (1993 - 1995)
Flying Trapeze (1993 - 1995)
German Wheel (1995 - 1997)
Dual High Bar (1996 - 2012)
Flying Man in Silk (1997)
Aerial Cube (1996, 1998 – 2015)
Chinese Poles (1993 - 2011)
Trampoline, Fast Track, and Korean plank/Teeterboard (1993 - 2017)
Aerial Straps and Cube (2016 – 2017)
Aerial Silk (2012 – 2017)

Acts used in the film Cirque du Soleil: Journey of Man (2000)
Taiko
Aerial cube
Aerial straps

Acts used in the film Cirque du Soleil: Worlds Away (2012)
Aerial cube

Costumes
Dominique Lemieux took inspiration from nature to create the colorful costumes of Mystère. One such costume is the Firebird, which has red feathers and accents that give the impression of embers flying through the air. The odd-looking Spermatos and Spermatites are dressed in elongated costumes which bulge in the center and have a tendril-like feature on the head. To give the characters an organic nature, spandex/lycra was used in conjunction with fringes and borders.

Music
The original score of Mystère was composed by René Dupéré, who had composed all of Cirque du Soleil's earlier shows, including Nouvelle Expérience and Saltimbanco. In 1994 the show's music was released as a studio album featuring the vocals of Canadian singers Élise Gouin (now known as Élise Velle) and Nathalie Gauvin.
In 1995 the show underwent an artistic overhaul, including changes in the lineup of acts. The "Manipulation" act was replaced by the "Aerial Cube", the Flying Trapeze act by the Aerial High Bars (the Flying Trapeze returned in 2012), and the Acro Net setup dance act was excluded from the show. At the same time the musical score was renovated with assistance from Benoît Jutras, a longtime music director and arranger for Cirque who later went on to compose for Quidam and other Cirque shows. The result, captured in the album Mystère: Live in Las Vegas, was a score that reflects the diverse compositional styles of both composers.  Mystère: Live in Las Vegas is a live, in-house recording of the new score, featuring Nathalie Gauvin and Wendy Talley on vocals; the album was released on November 12, 1996. After the release of the live album, the music was rearranged and altered once again. While the album resembles the current live music closely, it is not identical. For the celebration of the 25th anniversary of the show in 2018, a vinyl album specifically dedicated to the employees was created in limited quantities, just as it was done for the show Alegria in 1994 and Saltimbanco in 1997.
Below are the track lists for the 1994, 1996 and 2018 Mystère soundtrack albums. Acts are listed next to the songs they have accompanied in the show.

Songs not appearing on either album:

Alice (Ending, 1993 - 1995. Updated version of song right after "Finale," 1995 - present)
Benny (Clown act, 1996 – present)
Mime (Clown act, 1995 - 1996)
Bolero (Clown act, 1995 - 1996)
Benny Le Grand (Clown act, 1993 - 1995)
Cercles (German Wheel, 1995 - 1997)
High Bar II (Dual high bar, 2010 - 2012)
Avos (Bungee, 2022 - Present)
Hell/Angel (Dei ex machina, 1993 – present)
Rampant (Chineses poles Exit)
Nouvel Envol (Aerial cube, 2015 - 2017) (Solo Aerial Straps, 2015–present) (Duo Aerial Straps, 2017 - 2018)
Love Over (Duo Aerial Straps, 2018 - present)Vocalists
Singer 1

Nathalie Gauvin: Dec 1993 - Dec 2005
Jeannette D' Armand: 2000 (temporarily replaced Nathalie Gauvin)
Mirjana Milovanovic: Jan 2006 - Jul 2007
Sarah Boucher: Jul 2007 - Sep 2009
Silje Marie Norderhaugh: Sep 2009 - Jan 2013
Anna Bille: Jan 2013 - Dec 2014, Oct 2017
Kailee Ann: Dec 2014 - Aug 2017
Mackenzie Thomas: April 2018 - PresentSinger 2

Elise "Gouin" Velle: Dec 1993 - Sep 1994
Wendy Talley: Sep 1994 - Dec 1997, 1998 (temporarily replaced Chantal Hamel)
Chantal Hamel: Dec 1997 - Jul 1999
Stacey Beth Sanford: Jul 1999 - Dec 2000
Dina Emerson: Jan 2001 - Jan 2002, Apr 2007 - Jun 2017
Rochelle Collins: Jan 2002 - Jul 2003, Oct 2003 - May 2007
Briana Rossi: Jun 2017 - July 2021
Brittany Mae: July 2021 - PresentSinger 3

Luis Perez: Dec 1993 - Jul 1996

In popular culture
Mystère was a featured guest performance on Lopez Tonight, airing December 20, 2010. The featured acts included the hand-to-hand and aerial cube acts.
In the film Knocked Up, the main characters watched Mystère.
In the webseries Dorm Life, the character Courtney Cloverlock, a huge Cirque du Soleil fan, has posters of both Mystère and Love by her bed.
Yuji Naka, creator of the video game Nights into Dreams…, has cited Mystère as an inspiration for the game.
Mystère did a performance collaboration with alternative rock band Imagine Dragons for the Life is Beautiful Festival.
Passage 5:
O (Cirque du Soleil)
O is a water-themed stage production by Cirque du Soleil, a Canadian circus and entertainment company. The show has been in permanent residence at the Bellagio in Las Vegas, Nevada, United States, since October 1998. O, whose name is pronounced the same way as eau, the French word for "water", takes place around and above a 1.5-million-US-gallon (5,700 m3) pool of water. It features water acts such as synchronized swimming as well as aerial and ground acts.  The O theatre, which is designed to resemble a 14th-century European opera house, has 1,800 seats, thus allowing the performance to be watched by 3,600 people a night since the performance usually plays twice in a given day, also designed to meet the special demands of the show.O was inspired by the "infinity and elegance of water's pure form," which pays tribute to the beauty of the theatre. A group of 150 stage technicians assist in the production of the show, the cast of which is 85 performers: international acrobats, synchronized swimmers, and divers. Some of them are former Olympic athletes.

History
Since late October 2010, Cirque du Soleil has offered backstage tours of the O theatre. The experience allows visitors to see the backstage wings, training rooms, costume workshop, break area, underwater lighting area, and go up to a catwalk into the sound and lighting booths.  Not every experience 
will be the same as the tour is conducted around a "regular day", so performers may or may not be training, rehearsing, or even working out.As of early 2011, O has grossed over a billion dollars since the show opened in 1998.O has received many awards, including the following:

Entertainment Design Award, best production show, 1998
Las Vegas Review-Journal, best production show, 1999–2006
THEA, live show category, 1999
Prix Italia, creativity in high definition, 2009, for the documentary FlowO had its 10,000th performance on 1 September 2019.

Set and technical information
The show has a cast of 85 acrobats, synchronized swimmers and divers performing in and above a 1.5 million-gallon pool. When maintenance needs to be performed, the pool is drained in about 12 hours to the Bellagio Lake, causing the lake's water level to rise 1 inch (25 mm). The pool is kept at 88 °F (31 °C) and has an underwater speaker system and regulators that allow performers to breathe underwater. Every member of the cast is scuba-certified.
The underwater stage lift was produced by Handling Specialty.  In order for the platform stage to rise and fall in the water without a wake, the rubber surface of the stage is perforated.Cold air vents under each seat help control the theatre temperature for the audience. The goal is to maintain two temperature zones in the theatre: the stage is kept at a higher temperature of 84 °F (29 °C), while the audience area is kept at a lower temperature of 72 °F (22 °C). A mesh false ceiling allows warm moist air to escape out of the top of the theatre.To minimize damage to the musical instruments, the musicians play from glass enclosures in the theatre. Some of the musical instruments used in the show are more than 100 years old. The unique string instrument heard in the soundtrack of O is an erhu, a traditional Chinese bowed string instrument.
To maintain a fresh look on the performers, some performers have multiple sets of costumes so they may reappear dry despite having been in the water.  Some of the costumes only have a lifespan of approximately 20 shows due to the bromide and chlorine in the water.Additional facts about the show:

Some of the props function as boats, like the umbrella that Le Vieux rides on the water.
There are 15 technicians underwater during the show, performing various tasks such as artist handling and props manipulation.
The horses that the Comets ride in the show weigh 900 pounds (410 kg).
The clown house weighs over 7,000 pounds (3,200 kg).
Hanging 49 feet above the stage, the carousel and téléphérique (a conveyor system) carry tons of equipment as well as performers during the show.
Most of the props that are used during the show are actually driven by the Performers who ride them.  For instance, the carousel horses have a small propeller underneath their tails; they are controlled by a joystick located on the back of the horse.

Costumes
Costumes for O drew inspiration from many sources: commedia dell'arte, the Baroque, India, the Arabian Nights, as well as Venetian courtly fashions.  The costumes' silhouettes are defined by the design and are accentuated by the transparency of the selected materials and fabrics.  Many costumes' base design are leotards which are then expounded upon: this includes the Zebras and Flayed Ones, among others.  The Flayed Ones' leotards, for example, originally had hand-painted muscles on them, as digital screen-printing was inaccessible at the time of creation.  Another special attribute critical to costumes in O is their treatment to help withstand the water and chemicals in it.  To achieve this feat, roughly 40% of the costumes have been applied with a specific type of silicon sizing.  In addition, the materials chosen are more durable and had to be able to both mould to the performer's body and dry quickly. Over the years the best fabric found for the costumes has been nylon mesh, which performs well either wet or dry.Additional facts regarding the costumes:
A separate room was built with timed heaters and fans to air-dry many of the costumes which cannot be tumble-dried.
Sixty loads of laundry are done nightly to wash the costumes which can be machine washed.
The swimmers' costumes are replaced every 3 months.
The Comets' costumes last for a full year.
All wigs and headpieces had to have chinstraps added.

Music
The music of O was composed by Benoit Jutras and features a mix of classical Western and world instrumentation, including Chinese violin (erhu), bagpipes, African guitar and harp (kora), Colombian guitar, cello, ancient woodwinds and a wide variety of percussion instruments. During the show, the score is performed by a live band situated behind glass walls above and to the side of the stage. The glass protects the musicians' equipment from moisture damage.
O's music was recorded at the Bellagio and released on November 24, 1998. (ASIN B00000FDJZ) The album was re-released on September 6, 2005. (ASIN B000A2H9WU) The songs are listed below with their corresponding act in parentheses.Album track list (and acts in the show accompanied by each song):

Jeux d'Eau (Solo and duo trapeze)
Mer Noire (Barge)
Tzelma (Interlude from bateau)
Africa (Interlude from clown act 1)
Remous (Bateau)
Svecounia (Interlude from contortion, cerceaux)
Nostalgie (Intro to russian swings)
Simcha (Character parade, Russian swings)
Gamelan (Contortion)
Ephra (Flying man and cadre)
Désert (Opening, nage, solo and duo trapeze)
Terre Aride (Fire)
O (Finale)Additional songs in the show not included on the album:

Danse (Clown act 2) (2001-present)
Debbie (Journey of Man) (Washington/solo trapeze)
Festival (Interlude from Fire)
Sur Terre (Clown act 2) (1998-2000)
Plouf (High dive)
La Glace (Clown act 1) (1998-2000)
Reda Ver.1 (Opening) (1998-2000)
Reda Ver.2 (Opening) (2001-present)
Confluence (Interlude from Cerceaux)
Merou (Washington trapeze) (1998 only)
Nenuphar (Intro to contortion)
Robinet (Clown act 1) (2001–present)
Humoresque No. 7 Opus 101 (Opening Interlude) (1998-2000)
Aurora (Opening Interlude) (2001–present)

Filmography
In 2007, Cirque du Soleil released the film Flow (A Tribute to the Artists of "O").  The documentary was filmed in the O theatre and by the Colorado River.  The film shows certain artists performing out around the river as well as on stage and provides information on the necessary technical equipment used to produce the performance.  Bonus features of Flow include: performance clips, Russian swing act, technical information and film below the surface of the O pool, and information about the creation of O itself.In 2009, Flow won the Prix Italia award for the category of Creativity in High Definition.The following acts were used in Cirque du Soleil: Worlds Away:

Synchronised swimming
Bateau
Fire
Duo trapeze
Contortion
Aerial hoops
Passage 6:
Le Rêve (show)
Le Rêve ("The Dream") was a stage production in residence at the Wynn Las Vegas casino resort. It was the only Las Vegas show set in an aquatic theater-in-the-round stage (>1 million US gallon (water capacity). The show featured diving and feats of strength with special effects, including fire effects. No seat is more than 40 feet (12 m) from the stage.  The production was originally created by Franco Dragone but has been substantially revised over time. The show featured more than 90 performers and 250 cast and crew members.Each member of the cast must become SCUBA-certified before performing in the theater. In January 2018, Le Rêve completed a two-year reimagination of the production. The show now features all-new costumes designed by Suzy Benzinger, choreography by Marguerite Derricks, music by Benoit Jutras and lighting design by Jules Fisher and Peggy Eisenhauer. In April 2019, the show was voted “Best Production Show” by the Southern Nevada Hotel Concierge Association for the ninth consecutive year.

Show
While the show is continually revised over time, the central theme includes a female lead who see-saws back and forth between her dueling desires for love and passion, mind or body, as she finds herself attracted to two men. Put into a dream world to help her decide between the two suitors, she embarks on a mystical journey. The show concludes with what the production calls "a graceful and inspirational scene."The show includes dancing, swimming, gymnastics, diving and stunt performances, aerial performance and trained dove flights. During the production run, two of the athletes playing romantic leads fell in love themselves. Olympic athletes and notable gymnasts have joined the cast over the years.

History
The show had its world premiere on May 6, 2005.All rights to the show are owned by Wynn Las Vegas, so the resort is able to adapt the show at will. Le Rêve celebrated its 3,000th performance in January 2012.  The show celebrated its 12th anniversary in the summer of 2017 and has performed approximately 5,700 shows. Le Rêve celebrated its 6,000th performance in May 2018.
The House of Dancing Water, has some similarities to Le Rêve and O by Cirque du Soleil.The cast and crew of “Le Reve,” the signature production at Wynn Las Vegas since the hotel opened in 2005, were placed on furlough May 28, 2020. The first large-scale Las Vegas production show to permanently close due to the coronavirus pandemic is one of the most acclaimed performances to ever hit the Strip. Wynn Las Vegas confirmed “Le Rêve” has shuttered for good after more than 6,000 shows over the last 15 years.

Honors and awards
Media history
Six performers from Le Rêve were the models for the season finale of Face Off, aired on SyFy on March 26, 2013.  They also performed an act in the make-up, complete with full immersion and dives into the water.
Le Rêve was featured on an episode of the Fine Living series What Makes it Tick, produced by NorthSouth Productions.
Cast members from the show performed on a results episode of NBC's summer hit America's Got Talent in 2010.
Cast members were also featured in the music video for the single "Only the Young", by Brandon Flowers.
32 performers from Le Rêve staged a "surreal, elaborate montage of scenes" from the show as part of the 2010 Latin Grammys at the Mandalay Bay Events Center in Las Vegas. The event was broadcast live on Univision.
Cast members and the show were featured on the first episode of Somebody's Gotta Do It with Mike Rowe on CNN.

Theater and Facilities
The show take places in a unique aquatic theater-in-the-round. The swimming pool has a capacity of more than 1 million US gallons with its deepest point at 27 feet. Performers climb to heights of more than 80 feet above the water before diving straight down. Public estimates of the cost of the theater itself were up to $75 million for the original construction, not including later renovations such as 180-speaker surround sound.Two significant curtain effects have been used, including a 24-panel canopy that takes more than an hour to reset for the next show.In 2008, a VIP seating area was added to the theater.  In 2015, an additional 172 fountains, 120 LED lighting fixtures, and 16 fire-shooting devices were added by WET Design.  Current capacity is 1,600 per show, not including an underwater SCUBA viewing area that is sometimes available for VIP guests.