Passage 1:
Sabal Trail Transmission Pipeline
Sabal Trail Transmission Pipeline is a natural gas pipeline that runs from central Alabama through southwest Georgia to Orange County, Florida. A minority stake in the venture is owned by NextEra Energy and Duke Energy. The pipeline has been being planned since before 2011. In July 2013 it was announced that Florida Power & Light Company (FPL) jointly awarded its parent corporation, NextEra Energy and Spectra Energy the bid to build the pipeline. In May 2015, Duke Energy bought an interest in the venture. Construction began in September 2016. The pipeline is currently scheduled to be in service by June 2017.

Environmental concerns and federal agency permission
The construction of the pipeline has drawn concern from the communities through which it is planned to be built. Protests in Albany, Georgia and Valdosta, Georgia have occurred in response to the plans to build the pipelines. The threat of eminent domain and the environmental impact are among the concerns that have been voiced by citizens.
In late October 2015, the United States Environmental Protection Agency recommended to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission that the pipeline be rerouted away from the Floridan aquifer because of the karst geology that is prone to sinkholes and also contains wetlands.Environmental concerns have also been raised regarding threats to endangered species habitat along the route including crocodile, manatee and sea turtle breeding and nesting grounds. Others including Sanford Bishop, Hank Johnson, David Scott and John Lewis have voiced concern over the construction of a proposed compressor station near an already disadvantaged African American community in Albany, Georgia.Despite the recommendations of Environmental Protection Agency, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approved the pipeline's route in February 2016. In August 2016, the Army Corps of Engineers approved the route through North Florida. Some citizens from the areas of the route continued to voice concerns about the environmental impact the pipeline would have the environment after it was approved by the various governmental agencies.
The federal permits require the companies constructing the pipeline to engage in mitigation banking.

Protests
The construction of the Sabal Trail resulted in extensive protests from environmentalists. On November 12, 2016, fourteen protesters were arrested at a pipeline construction site in Gilchrist County, Florida after one protester locked himself to truck on site and the others obstructed its path. They had been inspired by the Dakota Access Pipeline protests and used similar protest signage. In February of 2017, two protestors locked themselves inside a section of the pipeline, citing the danger to people and the environment which would result from a pipeline leak. On February 26, 2017 an apparent protester was seen firing a high powered rifle at the pipeline construction site. The man fled and was chased by police until he crashed and was killed by a deputy after he tried to engage police in a gunfight

Construction
In September 2016, construction began on the pipeline. 
In late October 2016, drilling mud seepage began leaking into the Withlacoochee River at construction along the border of Brooks County, Georgia and Lowndes County, Georgia from a pilot hole that had been drilled underneath the river in preparation for the horizontal directional drilling hole. After the leakage was discovered, the Sabal Company installed containment booms at the site and posted a vacuum truck to capture the mud seepage. The spill prompted protests from concerned local citizens on November 16, 2016.As part of the company's biweekly report for the week ending on November 27 to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, it was reported that a sinkhole had developed 165 feet (50 m) southeast of the horizontal directional drilling (HDD) hole exit point at the work site near the Withlacoochee River. The sinkhole had been identified on November 5 by workers in the field.

Owners
Spectra Energy
NextEra Energy
Duke Energy (7.5%)

See also
Spectra Energy
Passage 2:
Duke Energy
Duke Energy Corporation is an American electric power and natural gas holding company headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina.

Overview
Based in Charlotte, North Carolina, Duke Energy owns 58,200 megawatts of base-load and peak generation in the United States, which it distributes to its 7.2 million customers. The company has approximately 29,000 employees. Duke Energy's service territory covers 104,000 square miles (270,000 km2) with 250,200 miles (402,700 km) of distribution lines. Almost all of Duke Energy's Midwest generation comes from coal, natural gas, or oil, while half of its Carolinas generation comes from its nuclear power plants. During 2006, Duke Energy generated 148,798,332 megawatt-hours of electrical energy.
Duke Energy Renewable Services (DERS), a subsidiary of Duke Energy, specializes in the development, ownership, and operation of various generation facilities throughout the United States. This segment of the company operates 1,700 megawatts of generation. 240 megawatts of wind generation were under construction and 1,500 additional megawatts of wind generation were in planning stages. On September 9, 2008, DERS updated its projections for future wind power capacity. By the end of 2008, it would have over 500 MW of nameplate capacity of wind power online, and an additional 5,000 MW in development.

Subsidiaries
Duke Energy Carolinas (formerly Duke Power)
Duke Energy Ohio (formerly Cincinnati Gas & Electric Company, via Cinergy)
Duke Energy Kentucky (formerly Union Light, Heat & Power, via Cinergy)
Duke Energy Indiana (formerly Public Service Indiana, via Cinergy)
Duke Energy Florida (formerly Florida Power Corporation, via Progress Energy)
Duke Energy Progress (formerly Carolina Power and Light, via Progress Energy)
Duke Energy Renewables
Duke Energy Retail
Duke Energy International
Duke Energy Sustainable Solutions
Duke Energy One

History
The company began in 1900 as the Catawba Power Company when Walker Gill Wylie and his brother financed the building of a hydroelectric power station at India Hook Shoals along the Catawba River near India Hook, South Carolina. When he needed additional funding to further his ambitious plan for construction of a series of hydroelectric power plants, Wylie convinced James B. Duke and his partner James Blaney to invest in the Southern Power Company, founded in 1905.
In 1917 James Blaney was the founder of the Wateree Power Company that was formed as a holding company for several utilities that had been founded and/or owned by Duke, and Blaney his associates, and in 1924 the name was changed to Duke Power. In 1927, most of the subsidiary companies, including Southern Power Company, Catawba Power Company, Great Falls Power Company, and Western Carolina Power Company were merged into Duke Power, although Southern Public Utilities, 100% owned by Duke Power, maintained a legally separate existence for the retail marketing of Duke-generated power to residential and commercial customers. Southern Public Utilities also operated transit systems, which Duke eventually converted from streetcars to buses.
In 1988, Nantahala Power & Light Co., which served southwestern North Carolina, was purchased by Duke and is now operated under the Duke Power Nantahala Area brand. In 1990, Duke sold its remaining transit operations. Duke Power merged with PanEnergy, a natural gas company, in 1997 to form Duke Energy. The Duke Power name continued as the electric utility business of Duke Energy until the Cinergy merger.

With the purchase of Cinergy Corporation announced in 2005 and completed on April 3, 2006, Duke Energy Corporation's customer base grew to include the Midwestern United States as well. The company operates nuclear power plants, coal-fired plants, conventional hydroelectric plants, natural-gas turbines to handle peak demand, and pumped hydro storage. During 2006, Duke Energy also acquired Chatham, Ontario-based Union Gas, which is regulated under the Ontario Energy Board Act (1998).
On January 3, 2007, Duke Energy spun off its gas business to form Spectra Energy. Duke Energy shareholders received 1 share of Spectra Energy for each 2 shares of Duke Energy. After the spin-off, Duke Energy now receives the majority of its revenue from its electric operations in portions of North Carolina, South Carolina, Kentucky, Ohio, and Indiana. The spinoff to Spectra also included Union Gas, which Duke Energy acquired the previous year.In 2011, Duke Energy worked with Charlotte's business leader community to help build Charlotte into a smart city. The group called the initiative "Envision Charlotte". At the time, the group decided on a goal to reduce energy use in the "urban core of the city by 20 percent". To do so, the group focused on making energy consumption changes to commercial buildings larger than 10,000 square feet.On July 3, 2012, Duke Energy merged with Progress Energy Inc with the Duke Energy name being retained along with the Charlotte, North Carolina, headquarters.Duke announced on June 18, 2013, that CEO Jim Rogers was retiring and Lynn Good would become the new CEO. Rogers has been CEO and Chairman since 2006, while Good was Chief Financial Officer of Duke since 2009, having joined Duke in the 2006 Cinergy merger. Rogers' retirement was part of an agreement to end an investigation into Duke's Progress Energy acquisition in 2012.In 2016, Duke Energy purchased Piedmont Natural Gas for $4.9 billion to become its wholly owned subsidiary.  Duke Energy completed selling its remaining power operations in Central and South America for $1.2 billion months afterwards.  At one point Duke Energy had more than 4,300 megawatts of electric generation in Latin America. It operated eight hydroelectric power plants in Brazil with an installed capacity of 2,307 megawatts.The company expects to spend $13 billion upgrading the North Carolina grid from 2017.On December 3, 2022, an attack was carried out on two Duke Energy substations located in Moore County, North Carolina. Damage from the attack left up to 40,000 residents without electrical power for several days, with officials closing schools and declaring a state of emergency. The Federal Bureau of Investigation supported local investigators in case the incident met the definition of domestic terrorism under the Patriot Act.

New nuclear power plant
On March 16, 2006, Duke Power announced that a Cherokee County, South Carolina site had been selected for a potential new nuclear power plant. The site is jointly owned by Duke Power and Southern Company. Duke plans to develop the site for two Westinghouse Electric Company AP1000 (advanced passive) pressurized water reactors. Each reactor is capable of producing approximately 1,117 megawatts. (See Nuclear Power 2010 Program.)
On December 14, 2007, Duke Power submitted a Combined Construction and Operating License to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, with an announcement that it will spend $160 million in 2008 on the plant with a total cost of $5 billion to $6 billion. The plant was approved in 2016.In August 2017, Duke decided to seek permission from the North Carolina Utility Commission to cancel the project due to the bankruptcy of Westinghouse and "other market activity", although they will retain the option of restarting the project at some point in the future if circumstances change.This site would have been adjacent to the old site, which was never completed and abandoned in the early 1980s, and used by James Cameron as a film set for the 1989 movie The Abyss.
In 2018, Duke Energy decided not to include new nuclear power in its long-range plans.

Headquarters buildings
J.A. Jones designed the first headquarters building, known as the Power Building, which was completed in 1927 at 440 South Church. It was five stories and 503,000 square feet (46,700 m2). The Electric Center at 526 South Church Street opened in 1975 with an addition in 1988. State Farm Insurance sold the Power Building in 2004 for $8 million to The Dilweg Cos., who anticipated significant development. Novare Group bought 5.13 acres (20,800 m2) at 408 South Church Street for $17 million from The Dilweg Cos. in a deal announced March 27, 2006.  The Power Building was demolished February 24, 2007.Duke Energy Center at 550 South Tryon Street was announced as the company's headquarters in 2009. The company announced May 17, 2021 that the headquarters will move in 2023 to Duke Energy Plaza, across the street from the current headquarters. Childress Klein is developing the new building, which will allow Duke to sell its Church Street and College Street buildings, and end its lease at 400 South Tryon. Previously named Charlotte Metro Tower, the 40-story building will be purchased when completed for up to $675 million by Childress Klein and CGA Capital, in the largest real estate deal in the city's history, announced in December 2019.

Finances
For the fiscal year 2017, Duke Energy reported earnings of US$3.059 billion, with an annual revenue of US$23.565 billion, an increase of 3.6% over the previous fiscal cycle. Duke Energy's shares traded at over $79 per share, and its market capitalization was valued at over US$58.8 billion in November 2018.

Environmental record
In 1999, the United States Environmental Protection Agency commenced an enforcement action against Duke Energy for making modifications to very old and deteriorating coal-burning power plants without getting permits under the Clean Air Act. Duke asserted that a "modification" under the Clean Air Act did not require a permit. Environmental groups asserted that Duke was using loopholes in the law to increase emissions. Initially, Duke prevailed at the trial court level, but in 2006 the case was argued before the Supreme Court (Environmental Defense v. Duke Energy Corp. (05-848)). The Court unanimously ruled on April 2, 2007 that the modifications allowed the power plants to operate for more hours, increasing emissions, so Clean Air Act permits were needed.In 2002, researchers at the University of Massachusetts Amherst identified Duke Energy as the 46th-largest corporate producer of air pollution in the United States, with roughly 36 million
pounds of toxic chemicals released annually into the air. Major pollutants included sulfuric and hydrochloric acid, chromium compounds, and hydrogen fluoride. The Political Economy Research Institute ranks Duke Energy 13th among corporations emitting airborne pollutants in the United States. The ranking is based on the quantity (80 million pounds in 2005) and toxicity of the emissions. This change reflects the purchase of fossil fuel-heavy Cinergy, which occurred in 2005.

In early 2008, Duke Energy announced a plan to build the new, 800-megawatt Cliffside Unit 6 coal plant 55 miles (89 km) west of Charlotte, North Carolina. The plan has been strongly opposed by environmental groups such as Rising Tide North America, Rainforest Action Network, the community-based Canary Coalition as well as the Southern Environmental Law Center, which has threatened to sue Duke if it does not halt construction plans. On April 1, activists locked themselves to machinery at the Cliffside construction area as part of Fossil Fools Day.
Duke Energy has been "one of the most vocal advocates" for a "cap-and-trade" system to combat global CO2 emissions, "and the company's CEO, Jim Rogers, thinks the company will profit from cap-and-trade". The company left the National Association of Manufacturers in part over differences on climate policy.In a joint venture with the French-based global energy firm AREVA, under the nominal name of ADAGE, Duke Energy has planned a "Green" biomass burning facility in Mason County, Washington and is negotiating with forestland owners to secure the 600,000 tons of wood debris it needs yearly to fuel its $250 million biomass plant.
The joint venture between electric power company Duke Energy and global nuclear services giant AREVA was created to build wood waste-to-energy power plants around the country.
ADAGE president Reed Wills announced the first Northwest outpost will be in the struggling timber town of Shelton, Washington.
The following pollutants are provided by DUKE-AREVA-ADAGE in their application for permit to the Department of Environmental Protection for a similar type of plant in Florida.

248 tons per year – particulate matter
288 tons per year – particulate matter 10
233 tons per year – particulate matter 2.5
249 tons per year – NOx (nitrogen oxides)
246 tons per year – SO2 (sulfur dioxide)
248 tons per year – CO (carbon monoxide)
40 tons per year – H2SO4 – (sulfuric acid mist)
63 tons per year – VOC (volatile organic compounds)
29 tons per year – F (fluorides)

Generating facilities
This list is partially complete due to the July 3, 2012, merger with Progress Energy.

Biomass fired
Shelton Biomass Facility (proposed)

Nuclear
Catawba Nuclear Station
McGuire Nuclear Station
Oconee Nuclear Station
Shearon Harris Nuclear Power Plant
H. B. Robinson Nuclear Generating Station
Brunswick Nuclear Generating Station
Crystal River Nuclear Power Plant (retired February 2013)
William States Lee III Nuclear Generating Station - Future

Coal-fired
Allen Steam Station
Belews Creek Steam Station
Beckjord Power Station
Cayuga Generating Station
Crystal River Energy Complex
East Bend Station
Edwardsport Station
Gallagher Station
Gibson Station
Marshall Steam Station
Mayo Plant
Miami Fort Power Station (purchased by Dynegy, 2014)
Riverbend Steam Station (retired)
Roxboro Steam Plant
Wabash River Station
William H. Zimmer Power Station (purchased by Dynegy, 2014)

Hydroelectric
Conventional hydro
Following is a list of Duke Energy's thirty conventional hydroelectric facilities, in order of average electric production.  All properties are 100% owned by Duke, and all but Markland are located in North Carolina and South Carolina (Markland is located in southern Indiana).
Blewett Falls Hydroelectric Plant
Cowans Ford Hydro Station, 350 MW average capacity
Keowee Hydro Station, 158 MW
Walters Hydroelectric Plant, 112 MW
Tillery Hydroelectric Plant, 87 MW
Rocky Creek & Cedar Creek Hydro Stations, combined 73 MW
Great Falls & Dearborn Hydro Stations, combined 70 MW
Markland Hydro Station, 65 MW
Mountain Island Hydro Station, 60 MW
Lake Wylie Hydro Station, 60 MW
Wateree Hydro Station, 56 MW
Fishing Creek Hydro Station, 37 MW
Oxford Hydro Station, 36 MW
Bridgewater Hydro Station at Lake James, 31.5 MW
Rhodhiss Hydro Station, 26 MW
Lookout Shoals Hydro Station, 26 MW
Blewett Hydroelectric Plant, 22 MW
Ninety-Nine Islands Plant, 18 MW
Gaston Shoals Plant, 9 MW
Tuxedo Plant, 5 MW
Marshall Plant, 4 MW
and ten clustered locations at Nantahala, in mountainous southwestern North Carolina, producing a cumulative 99 MW

Pumped-storage hydro
Bad Creek Hydroelectric Station
Jocassee Pumped-Storage Generating Station

Oil and gas-fired
Anclote Station
Asheville Combustion Turbines
Bartow Combined Cycle Station
Buck Steam Station
Buzzard Roost Station
Cayuga Combustion Turbine Station
Cliffside Steam Station
Connersville Peaking Station
Dan River Steam Station
Darlington County Electric Plant
Henry County Peaking Station
Hines Energy Complex
H.F. Lee Energy Complex
Lee Steam Station
W.S. Lee Steam Station
Lincoln Combustion Turbine Station
Madison Peaking Station
Miami-Wabash Peaking Station
Mill Creek Combustion Turbine Station
Noblesville Station
Rockingham Station
Smith Energy Complex
Sutton Combined Cycle Plant
Wabash River Repowering Station
Wheatland Peaking Station
Woodsdale Station

Solar farms
Citing the falling cost of building solar farms, Duke Energy announced plans in 2017 to launch three new such projects in Kentucky. Two will be in Kenton County and one will be in Grant County. Together the three plants will create more than 6.7 MW of power. These join several other solar farms including:

Davidson County Solar Farm
Martins Creek Solar Farm 1 MW (Murphy, NC)
Culberson Solar Farm 1 MW (Murphy, NC)
Osceola Solar Facility 4 MW (St.Petersburg, Fla)Additionally, Duke Energy added 451 MW of solar capacity to North Carolina’s grid in 2017.
Hamilton Solar Power Plant 74.9 MW (Jasper, FL)
Columbia Solar Power Plant 74.9 MW (Fort White, FL) (opening in 2020)
Live Oak Solar Power Plant ? MW (Live Oak, FL)In 2020 Duke Energy began commercial operations of several farms in Texas, operating alongside its Farm from 2010.
Blue Wing Solar Project (San Antonio, TX)
Lapetus Solar Project 100 MW (Andrews County, TX)
Holstein Solar Project 200 MW (Nolan County, TX)
Rambler Solar Project 200 MW (Tom Green County, TX)

Wind farms
Los Vientos Wind Farm
Shirley Wind

Electric vehicles
Duke Energy announced in October 2018 that it would install 530 electric car charging stations around Florida. Ten percent of the stations will go into low income communities.

Awards
Duke Energy has been chosen as one of The 50 Best Employers In America by Business InsiderIn 2002, Duke Energy was awarded the Ig Nobel Prize in Economics for "adapting the mathematical concept of imaginary numbers for use in the business world".

Criticism
In December 2000, Cinergy Corp agreed to pay $1.4B to settle allegations that its coal plants illegally polluted the air. Duke Energy completed its acquisition of Cinergy Corp in 2006.In July 2004, Duke Energy agreed to pay $208M to settle allegations that it had engaged in price gouging in California during the energy crisis of 2000 and 2001.In December 2009, Duke Energy agreed to spend approximately $93M to resolve violations of the Clean Air Act. Duke became obligated to make investments that were expected to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions by 86%.On February 14, 2011, Greenpeace launched a campaign in which Phil Radford called on Duke Energy to abandon mountaintop removal coal, produce a third of its energy from renewable sources by 2020, and abandon coal altogether by 2030."In May 2011, Duke agreed to pay $30M to resolve allegations that changes made to the company pension plan disproportionately harmed employees over 40, costing many of them up to half of their accrued benefits.In December 2011, the non-partisan organization Public Campaign criticized Duke Energy for spending $17.47 million on lobbying. It also criticized Duke for not paying any taxes from 2008 to 2010 and receiving $216 million in tax rebates, in spite of turning a $5.4 billion profit and extensively raising executive compensations.In 2012, Greenpeace protested Duke's lobbying of the Democratic Party, including its funding of the 2012 Democratic National Convention.In July 2012, Duke Energy was criticized for paying former Progress Energy CEO Bill Johnson $44.7 million in compensation, including a $10 million severance, for something close to 20 minutes on the job as Duke's CEO.In 2012, Duke Energy sued Citrus County, Florida claiming its tax bill was too high. The county hired an outside appraiser who found that there were a lot of unreported and underreported items and the tax claim was actually too low.In May 2013, university students launched a campaign for Brown University to divest fossil fuels, specifically referring to Duke Energy and other coal plant operators.On February 2 2014, the massive Dan River coal-ash spill led to a grand jury investigation into Duke Energy. The initial investigation was overseen by Governor Pat McCrory, who was accused of intervening on Duke's behalf as he had been a Duke Energy employee for 28 years. Prosecutors went looking for any cash or items of value that might have been given to Governor McCrory and members of his administration in exchange for cheap settlements. Duke Energy was prosecuted, pled guilty to nine charges of criminal negligence, and agreed to pay $102 million in fines and restitutions. Duke Energy was also ordered to close all of its 32 ash ponds in the state of North Carolina by 2029.In September 2016, the Government Pension Fund of Norway, then worth $900 billion, excluded Duke Energy and its subsidiaries from the fund, citing "risk of severe environmental damage".In August 2020, environmental watchdog EWG released a report accusing Duke Energy of charging Indiana ratepayers for $12 billion worth of failed projects. This was the direct consequence of a controversial bill passed in Indiana earlier that year. Projects included two natural gas pipelines and two retired nuclear power plants.
In 2021, investigative reporting by the Orlando Sun Sentinel revealed that Duke Energy, FPL (Nextera Energy), and TECO Energy put forth more than $3 million to promote "ghost" spoiler candidates in key Florida legislature races. The scheme involved former senator Frank Artiles and was effective in costing the Democrats at least one election.In January 2021, Duke Energy agreed to a settlement, which the company proposed, to absorb $1.1 billion worth of coal-ash pond closure and cleanup costs, in North Carolina, between 2015 and 2030. The parties involved also waived all rights to challenge the “reasonableness and prudence” of Duke Energy’s coal ash management practices and costs before March 2020. Duke estimates the costs to be between $8 and $9 billion, the settlement reduces the cost on the ratepayer by 60%.In August 2021, Indiana city officials from Bloomington, Carmel, and West Lafayette, and other lawmakers sent a letter to Duke Energy deploring its progress towards renewables and asking it to stop overcharging low-income homes for electricity.

December 2022 rolling blackouts
In December 2022, a major winter storm impacted much of the United States. On December 24, 2022, Christmas Eve, Duke Energy implemented rolling blackouts for the first time in their history, due to unprecedented energy demand. The rolling blackouts came without warning and lasted hours. In addition to facility failures, Duke reported failures related to the software that regulated the controlled blackouts. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission initiated an investigation in response to the blackouts.

See also
2005 Atlantic Power Outage
Harlan County USA—1976 Academy Award-winning documentary film covering the efforts of 180 coal miners on strike against the Duke Power Company in Harlan County, Kentucky, in 1973.
Fixed bill
Holiday Junction
Passage 3:
Duke Energy Florida
Duke Energy Florida, formerly Florida Power, was the generation, transmission, and distribution sector of Florida Progress Corporation.  The company distributed power over much of central and north Florida. Their service area covers approximately 13,000 square miles. Along with that, the company supplies electric service to approximately 1.8 million residential, commercial and industrial customers in the state. Florida Progress merged with Carolina Power & Light in 2000 to form Progress Energy. Progress Energy merged with Duke Energy in 2012. Today the Florida operations operate as Duke Energy Florida.

History
In 1899, Frank A. Davis founded the St. Petersburg Electric Light and Power Company in the newly founded town of St. Petersburg, Florida.
In 1911 it started offering 24 hour service to their customers.
After a series of expansions, in 1927 St. Petersburg Electric Light and Power Company became Florida Power Corporation.
Reddy Kilowatt became the company's mascot in In 1939.
The Honner family received free television from Florida Power Corporation in 1952 in celebration of the company installing its 200,000th meter.
In 1963, the company installed a specially designed underwater cable in the Gulf of Mexico. It was believed to be the longest one-piece installation in Florida back then. Land was also purchased to build their first nuclear power plant in Citrus County.
Andrew H. Hines became the company's president in 1972.
In 1977, the nuclear power plant was finally built in Citrus County.
In 1982, in hopes of diversifying beyond utility operations, Florida Power reorganized as a holding company, Florida Progress Corporation.
Louie the Lighting Bug became the mascot for their television ads in 1983.
The company reached 1 million customers in 1986.
In 2000, Florida Progress merged with Raleigh, North Carolina-based Carolina Power & Light to form Progress Energy Inc.
Progress Energy merged with Duke Energy in 2012.

Future Projects
On March 25, 2019, Duke Energy Florida announced the new locations of where they will be putting their newest universal solar power plants. The three locations are Lake Placid in Highlands County, Trenton in Gilchrist County, and DeBary in Volusia County.  Duke Energy Florida is predicting that these three solar plants will eliminate nearly 800 million pounds of carbon dioxide emissions in Florida each year upon commercial operation.

External links
https://www.duke-energy.com/our-company/about-us/our-history


== Regerences ==
Passage 4:
Sean Healey
Sean Michael Healey (1961 – May 26, 2020) was an American businessman who was chairman and chief executive officer of Affiliated Managers Group, Inc. (NYSE: AMG), a global asset management firm whose affiliates in aggregate managed approximately $736 billion as of December 31, 2018.

Early life and education
Healey was born in San Rafael, California.  Healey attended high school in Oceanside, California, followed by Harvard College, where he was a member of the varsity wrestling squad. In 1983, he received an A.B. in history and literature, magna cum laude, and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.
After graduating from Harvard, Healey was awarded a Rotary Scholarship to study philosophy at University College in Dublin, Ireland, and was awarded a master's degree in philosophy with first-class honors in 1984.  In 1987, he earned a J.D. from Harvard Law School, and he was an editor of the Harvard Law Review.

Early career
Upon graduation from law school, Healey joined Goldman Sachs as an associate in the Mergers and Acquisitions Department, then transferred to a group that provided investment-banking services to financial institutions, where he worked under J. Christopher Flowers.

Affiliated Managers Group
In April 1995, Healey was recruited to join Affiliated Managers Group (AMG), then a three-person start-up firm seeking to invest in boutique money managers. AMG was founded in 1993 with private equity backing from TA Associates and made its first investment in 1994. When Healey joined AMG as Executive Vice President, the firm had a single investment in a manager with under $1 billion of assets under management.With Healey on board, AMG received its second round of capital and subsequently invested in several U.S.-based investment firms. By October 1996, AMG had approximately $18 billion under management. In October 1997, AMG closed its investment for a 70% stake in Tweedy, Browne Company LLC, a well-known value-oriented investment management firm.In November 1997, Healey led AMG’s initial public offering in which the company raised $176 million, priced at $23.50 per share. With proceeds from the offering, AMG continued to expand, and named Healey president and chief operating officer in October 1999. In 2001, AMG was named in Fortune magazine’s list of 100 Fastest-Growing Companies and had approximately $81 billion in assets under management. Healey became president and chief executive officer in 2005, and chairman and chief executive officer in 2011.AMG’s business model of leaving a portion of equity with each firm’s management as motivation for continuing to produce good performance and growth has been highly successful under Healey's leadership.  AMG also uses employment contracts to ensure that asset management firms retain talented managers, and establishes long-term succession plans with managers.  Healey has also been noted for being extraordinarily selective of his affiliate partners, stating in a recent interview that the company ultimately backs away from many more potential investments than it pursues.Healey also helped AMG to expand globally.  AMG opened the firm’s first distribution office in Australia in 2007, and thereafter expanded into Europe, Asia and the Middle East, to help its affiliates develop relationships in overseas markets. AMG furthered its expansion with the formation of AMG Wealth Partners in 2011.After AMG posted three-year average earnings growth of 40%, Fortune magazine again named AMG to its list of 100 Fastest-Growing Companies in 2012.In May 2018, Healey was diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (a motor neuron disease otherwise known as ALS, or Lou Gehrig's disease) and AMG announced that Healey was stepping back to become Executive Chairman while Nate Dalton, AMG's long-time President and Chief Operating Officer, was named CEO.

The Healey Center for ALS
In November 2018, Healey, with support from AMG and a group of friends and colleagues, established the Sean M. Healey and AMG Center for ALS at Massachusetts General Hospital with an initial donation of $40 million. The Healey Center is led by Dr. Merit Cudkowicz, a world-renowned ALS researcher and Chair of the Neurology Department at MGH. The Healey Center is the largest hospital-based ALS research program in the world and supports a broad range of early stage trials of promising ALS treatments.

Personal life
Healey held a number of nonprofit board positions, including serving as co-chairman of the board of trustees of the Peabody Essex Museum; as a member of the Council on Foreign Relations; the Visiting Committee of the Harvard Law School; and the board of trustees of the International Game Fish Association.In 2006, Healey was appointed by President George W. Bush to serve on the President’s Export Council, the U.S.’s principal advisory committee on international trade.Healey was an avid big-game hunter and sport fisherman, having boated a 93.5 pound white marlin, which was the winning fish in the 2010 White Marlin Open, the world’s largest billfish tournament.He was previously married to Kerry M. Healey, the former lieutenant governor of Massachusetts. They had two children. Healey remarried in 2018 to Amy Broch. The couple had one daughter. 
Healey died from amytrophic lateral sclerosis on May 26, 2020, at the age of 59.
Passage 5:
Darrell Crate
Darrell W. Crate (born 1967) is an American investor, private equity manager, and philanthropist. He is currently the managing principal of Easterly, a private investment firm he founded in 2009 in Beverly, Massachusetts.A native of New York City, Crate attended Bates College in Lewiston, Maine before attending Columbia Business School in New York City. He began his career with Chase Manhattan Bank and Chase Manhattan Securities. His last assignment as the managing director of Financial Institutions Group based in London. Soon after he was asked to join Affiliated Managers Group where he helped to scale the business from 1998 to 2011, as Chief Financial Officer.
After departing AMG, Crate founded Easterly, where he has focused on a number of ventures, including founding a publicly-traded REIT, sponsoring a SPAC and building an asset management platform which owns stakes in third-party investment management businesses and assists them with their strategic growth.

Early life and education
Crate was born in New York City in 1967. Crate received his Bachelor of Arts in economics from Bates College in 1989 and his M.B.A. from Columbia Business School in 1995.

Investment career
Chase bank
Crate began his career with Chase Manhattan and Chase Manhattan Securities in New York. His last assignment as the managing director of the Financial Institutions Group based in London, focusing exclusively on investment management firms in England, Spain, France, Italy, Germany and the Benelux region.

Affiliated Managers Group
As chief financial officer
From 1998 to 2011, he served as the chief financial officer of Affiliated Managers Group a publicly traded asset management holding company. During his tenure at AMG, assets under management grew from $50 billion to over $340 billion through mutual fund, pension, and high-net-worth accounts globally, with over half of its clients domiciled outside the United States. During his tenure as CFO, the firm acquired interests in over 30 firms including Third Avenue Management, ValueAct Capital, AQR Capital Management, BlueMountain Capital Management and Tweedy, Browne Company. Over this same period, the company’s valuation increased materially, from $450 million to $6 billion

Easterly
As founder
In 2009, Crate founded Easterly Capital, LLC, a firm based in Beverly, Massachusetts, that builds operating businesses to gain exposure to the growth in both asset management and non-bank finance sectors.  He joined the firm full-time in 2011.

As chairman
In February 2015, Crate became the chairman of Easterly Government Properties, Inc., a publicly traded REIT on the New York Stock Exchange that is focused primarily on the acquisition, development and management of Class A commercial properties that are leased to U.S. Government agencies that serve essential functions. According to Business Wire, Crate became the chairman of Easterly Acquisition Corp., a publicly traded blank check company in July 2015.In March 2019, Easterly purchased the institutional investment business of Levin Capital Strategies, establishing Levin Easterly Partners, a long-only asset manager. Levin Easterly had approximately $6.1 billion in assets under management upon closure of the transaction.  Levin Easterly is a fundamental, contrarian value investment management firm focusing on US Large and All Cap Value strategies based in New York and New Canaan, CT. One area of focus for the firm has been special purpose acquisition companies (SPACs). They are one of the most experienced investors in these vehicles, with a track record of investing in SPACs that spans over a decade.In May 2020, Easterly acquired an equity interest in James Alpha Advisors, LLC, a boutique asset management firm specializing in Global REITs, Structured Credit and Hedged Equity. In addition, the firm provides a platform of liquid alternative portfolios for institutional and individual investors. James Alpha Advisors had over $1.1 billion in assets under management at the time of the transaction.Easterly Alternatives is the alternatives-focused arm of Easterly and has raised more than $500 million in private and platform vehicles in sectors including real estate, healthcare and transportation. Easterly Alternatives recently has launched a SPAC Fund, in which it will invest in the best new-issue SPAC IPOs that come to market.

Personal life
Crate currently lives in Florida, Maine and Hamilton, Massachusetts.He is involved with a number of non-profit, political, and charitable organizations. He has been a trustee of Bates College since 2003 and served on the college's advancement and investment committees. On February 8, 2016, the college announced that Crate was among seven families to donate $19 million to endow professorships and launch the college’s new digital and computational studies program. Crate also serves as a trustee of Think of Us, a not-for-profit technology platform with the ultimate goal of helping foster youth successfully transition into a prosperous adulthood.
Crate currently serves as Vice Chairman of the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association (AOPA). A licensed private pilot since 1993, Crate has more than 6,000 flight hours and has flown his single-engine TBM plane to all of the 48 continental states. He also serves on the advisory counsel to the National Park Foundation. He has a particular focus and interest in the National Parks located in Maine, North Carolina and Montana.Crate is a member of the Advisory Council of the Robert F. Kennedy Children's Action Corps (2006), a national leader in child welfare and juvenile justice programs and services. In 2019, the RFK Children’s Action Corps honored Crate with its prestigious "Robert F. Kennedy Embracing the Legacy Award” for his work on behalf of at-risk youth. Crate also served as a Trustee of Think of Us, a not-for-profit technology platform with the ultimate goal of helping foster youth successfully transition into a prosperous adulthood.Other interests include serving as a trustee of Islesboro Island Trust (2002), Adams Memorial Foundation (2011),  Ethel Walker School (2015) IRYS School of Technology and Trades (2020)and an advisor to The Trustees of Reservations (2002).

Political involvement
According to Boston.com, Crate served as treasurer and a member of the executive committee of the Romney for President campaign in 2012, a role that he also held during the 2008 cycle. From 2003 to 2007, Crate served as the chairman of the Massachusetts Republican Party, and a senior advisor to Governor Mitt Rommney.

See also
List of Bates College people
List of Columbia University people
Massachusetts Republican Party
Passage 6:
Affiliated Managers Group
Affiliated Managers Group, Inc. (NYSE: AMG) is a strategic partner to independent investment management firms globally, with equity stakes in a number of partner-owned traditional investment managers, hedge funds, and specialized private equity firms which it calls “Affiliates.” The company has principal offices in West Palm Beach, Florida; Prides Crossing, Massachusetts; Stamford, Connecticut; and London, United Kingdom. The company was founded in December 1993 by William J. Nutt in Boston, Massachusetts, as a privately owned company with initial backing from TA Associates; Its initial public offering on the New York Stock Exchange occurred in November 1997.  Today, AMG’s Affiliates manage $651 billion in assets in aggregate. 
AMG’s strategy is to generate value by investing in an array of independent firms and supporting their long-term growth, through an approach in which significant equity ownership is retained by the management partners of each Affiliate, and each Affiliate operates and invests autonomously from AMG and from other Affiliates.  The Affiliate principals’ ‘skin in the game’ incents them to maximize long-term value creation, and their retained investment independence preserves the entrepreneurial cultures of each Affiliate firm.  AMG’s approach aligns incentives between AMG shareholders, Affiliate principals, and Affiliate clients, and is unique in the investment industry.  AMG also offers its Affiliates growth capital, distribution and marketing capabilities, and other strategic support, and its intention is to “magnify” its Affiliates’ growth opportunities without interfering in their operations.

History
In 1993, AMG was founded by William Nutt.In 1997, AMG invested in Tweedy, Browne and completed its initial public offering, listing on the New York Stock Exchange. 
In 2004, AMG established a U.S. retail platform which would enable its Affiliates to manufacture, market, and distribute products to the U.S. wealth marketplace.  AMG also made a minority investment in AQR, a quantitative investment manager and hedge fund firm, its first investment in an alternative investment firm, and its first minority investment.In 2005, Sean M. Healey was named chief executive officer.In 2007, AMG opened its first non-U.S. institutional distribution office in Sydney, Australia, to provide sales and marketing services to institutional clients in Australia and New Zealand.  Today, AMG operates distribution capabilities serving the Asia, Australia, Europe / U.K., and Middle East marketplaces.In 2009, AMG announced investments in Harding Loevner and Gannett Welsh & Kotler.In 2010, AMG acquired a majority stake in Pantheon Ventures.  The private equity company was AMG’s largest investment to date.  AMG also invested in Artemis Investment Management. In 2016, AMG made an investment in leading technology-driven liquid alternative firm Systematica Investments.In 2018, after being diagnosed with ALS, Sean Healey stepped down from his position as chief executive officer. He died in May 2020.  Nathaniel Dalton, previously president and chief operating officer, succeeded him.In 2019, Jay Horgen succeeded Dalton as president and chief executive officer.  Horgen joined AMG in 2007 and previously served as chief financial officer, as well as executive vice president, focusing on investments in new AMG Affiliates.In 2021, AMG invested in four companies, including Parnassus Investments, the largest ESG-dedicated fund manager in the U.S.In 2022, AMG increased its investment in Systematica Investments, a quantitative and systematic investment firm.Other Information
AMG is known for its research  ,, on independent firms’ advantages in consistently generating excess returns.The company is also known for its commitment to corporate citizenship and community engagement.  AMG was a founding donor to the Sean M. Healey and AMG Center for ALS at Massachusetts General Hospital, and continues to support the Center with fundraising and charitable events.
Passage 7:
Progress Energy Inc
Progress Energy, headquartered in Raleigh, North Carolina, is a subsidiary of Duke Energy and prior to its merger with Duke Energy was a Fortune 500 energy company with more than 21,000 megawatts of generation capacity and $9 billion in annual revenues. Progress Energy includes two major electric utilities that serve approximately 3.1 million customers in the Carolinas and Florida. As an independent company, the last chairman and CEO of Progress Energy was William D. Johnson; his predecessor was Robert McGehee, who died on October 9, 2007 at the age of 64 of a stroke while on a business trip to London.
Progress Energy is the majority owner and operator of the Brunswick, Crystal River 3, Robinson, and Shearon Harris nuclear power plants.
On October 16, 1999, third quarter earnings of Florida Progress Corp. fell 20.5 percent as damage from Hurricane Floyd.On August 24, 1999, Carolina Power & Light Co. said that it would acquire Florida Progress Corp. for $5.3 billion, creating the nation's ninth-largest electric utility.The company's current slogan is, "People, performance, excellence."

History
In 2000, Carolina Power & Light bought Florida Power Corporation and changed its name to Progress Energy. Progress Energy represents a family of companies, including CP&L, Florida Power, Progress Telecom, NCNG and SRS, and an important new organization, Energy Ventures. The company built a new headquarters in downtown Raleigh in 2004.On January 10, 2011, Duke Energy announced plans to take over Progress Energy in a $26 billion deal resulting in the country's largest electric utility with 7.1 million customers. Duke Energy plans to "maintain substantial operations in Raleigh." When the merger was completed on July 3, 2012, Duke Chairman James E. (Jim) Rogers became Chairman and CEO of the new combined company, while Progress CEO Bill Johnson resigned.

Environmental record
In 2008, the Corporate Responsibility Officer named Progress Energy to its list of 100 Best Corporate Citizens. Progress Energy was named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index in 2009, 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005.The company is investing $300,000 in a UNC Chapel Hill study to map the offshore wind power potential of North Carolina. Progress Energy launched its SunSense-branded solar incentive programs in 2009.Progress Energy has installed flue-gas desulfurization technology, or scrubbers, to remove sulfur dioxide emissions from its nine largest coal-fired power plant units.Researchers at the University of Massachusetts Amherst have identified Progress Energy as the 29th-largest corporate producer of Air pollution in the United States in 2002, when it released roughly 39 million pounds of toxic chemicals into the air. Major pollutants included nickel compounds, chromium compounds, sulfuric acid, and hydrochloric acid. Progress has also been named a potentially responsible party at the Carolina Transformer Co. Superfund toxic waste site, according to the Center for Public Integrity.

Naming rights
Progress Energy owns the naming rights to the University of Central Florida's Progress Energy Welcome Center, St. Petersburg's Progress Energy Park, home of Al Lang Field, Progress Energy Center for the Arts-Mahaffey Theater, and the "Progress Energy Center for the Performing Arts" in downtown Raleigh, NC.

See also
List of power stations in Florida
Passage 8:
Gulfstream Natural Gas Pipeline
Gulfstream Natural Gas Pipeline is a natural gas pipeline that brings gas from Mississippi and Alabama, underwater across the Gulf of Mexico, to Florida.  It was owned by Duke Energy, but is now owned by Enbridge.  Its FERC code is 183.

See also
Florida Gas Transmission Pipeline
Passage 9:
Crystal River Energy Complex
The Crystal River Energy Complex consists of seven power-generating plants on a 4,700-acre (1,900 ha) site near the mouth of the Crystal River in Citrus County, Florida.  Crystal River 1, 2, 4, and 5 are fossil fuel power plants. Crystal River 3 was previously the sole nuclear power plant on the site (1977-2013). The Crystal River Combined Cycle site consists of two Mitsubishi gas turbines, which came on-line in 2018.  The complex was developed in the early 1960s by the Florida Power Corporation and sold to Progress Energy Inc in 2000. Following Progress Energy's merger with Duke Energy in 2012, the facility is owned and operated by Duke Energy.In February 2013, Duke Energy announced that Crystal River 3 would be permanently shut down.

Power plants
See also
Levy County Nuclear Power Plant
Progress Energy Inc
List of power stations in Florida
Passage 10:
Crescent Communities
Crescent Communities is a real estate investor, developer, and operator of mixed-use communities with headquarters in Charlotte, North Carolina. It has approximately 115 employees. The company has offices in Charlotte, Washington, D.C., Atlanta, Orlando, Nashville, Dallas, Denver, Phoenix, and Salt Lake City.

History
In 1939, Duke Power (now Duke Energy) established a forestry department to manage company land not used for power generation. In 1963, this department became the company South Carolina Land and Timber. As the holdings expanded to include land in North Carolina, the organization was renamed Crescent Land and Timber in 1969. Some of the original land was sold to Crescent Land and Timber by the Singer Corporation.In the mid-1980s, the company was renamed Crescent Resources as it began to actively develop residential communities. Crescent Resources began work on its first commercial development, Coliseum Centre, in 1990. As of 1991, Crescent Resources managed 270,000 acres of land. Holdings included part of what became Lake James State Park, which it later sold to the state of North Carolina. Crescent Resources became a separate entity from Duke Energy in 2006,  with Duke Energy selling its 49% stake to Morgan Stanley.Crescent Resources filed for bankruptcy in 2009, and has emerged from it separated from the utility company. The company aimed to rebrand itself, renaming itself "Crescent Communities" in 2013.

External links
Crescent Communities