Passage 1:
Pueraria
Pueraria is a genus of 15–20 species of legumes native to Asia. The best known member is kudzu, also called Japanese arrowroot. The genus is named after 19th century Swiss botanist Marc Nicolas Puerari.
The genus, as traditionally circumscribed, is polyphyletic, with different species being more related to other species in the tribe Phaseoleae. Current research, reproduced below, splits the genus into five clades, one of which defines the current monophyletic genus.

Species
The genus Pueraria is highly polyphyletic; the below list is divided by clade following the result of A.N.Egan & B.Pan (2016). In 2015, the authors validly published their proposal in Phytotaxa. As of February 2022, Kew Plants of the World Online database accepts these names.

Pueraria sensu stricto
Pueraria sensu stricto includes the vast majority of species in the genus. They fall into a single clade sister to or containing Nogra.
P. alopecuroides Craib
P. calycina Franch.
P. candollei  Benth.
P. edulis Pamp.
P. imbricata Maesen
P. lacei Craib
P. mirifica Airy Shaw & Suvat. (= P. candollei var. mirifica in Egan)
P. montana (Lour.) Merr. – US invasive population comes from a hybrid of more than one of the subspecies.Pueraria montana var. chinensis (Ohwi) Sanjappa & Pradeep (= P. chinensis, although ILDS and the plant list instead consider P. thomsonii the synonym)
Pueraria montana var. lobata (Willd.) Sanjappa & Pradeep (= P. lobata)
Pueraria montana var. thomsonii (Benth.) Wiersema ex D.B. Ward (= P. thomsonii, missing in ILDS)
P. pulcherrima (Koord.) Koord.-Schum.
P. sikkimensis Prain
P. tuberosa (Roxb.ex Willd.) DC. – type species

Provisionally retained
The following are not included in the 2016 study due to insufficient material for sequencing. They are accepted by POWO.
P. bella Prain: conflicting proposals assigning either to the main clade or to Neonotonia (morphology).
P. bouffordii H. Ohashi: presumably in the main clade (morphology).
P. grandiflora Bo Pan & Bing Liu: presumably in the main clade (morphology).
P. xyzhuii H. Ohashi & Iokawa: presumably in the main clade (morphology).The following are not included in Egan et al. 2016 for other reasons, but are accepted by Kew POWO:

P. garhwalensis L.R.Dangwal & D.S.Rawat: excluded per van der Maesen (2002)
P. neocaledonica Harms: not mentioned
P. maesenii Niyomdham: not mentioned

Former members
The rest of the genus fall into four clades, sorted by distance from the main clade:
Neustanthus Benth. – sister to Sinodolichos
P. phaseoloides (Roxb.) Benth. → N. phaseoloides (Roxb.) Benth.P. edulis, P. montana, and N. phaseoloides make up what is known as kudzu. The morphological differences between these species are subtle.
N. phaseoloides var. javanicus (= P. javanica (Benth.) Benth.)
N. phaseoloides var. phaseoloides
N. phaseoloides var. subspicatus
Teyleria
P. stricta Kurz → T. stricta
Toxicopueraria A.N.Egan & B.Pan – sister to Cologania
P. peduncularis Grah. → T. peduncularis
P. yunnanensis Franchet.→ T. yunnanensis
Haymondia A.N.Egan & B.Pan – notably lies out of Glycininae near Kennediinae; known for a long time to be misplaced
P. wallichii DC. → H. wallichiiThe following names are not accepted even before Egan 2016 but have seen valid publication:

P. omeiensis Wang et Tang – P. montana: unaccepted name after Mount Omei.
P. stracheyi Baker → Apios carnea (Wall.) Benth. ex Baker.
P. maclurei (F. P. Metcalf) F. J. Herm. → Sinodolichos lagopus – still accepted by WFO
Passage 2:
Pleiospilos nelii
Pleiospilos nelii, the split rock, splitrock or living granite, is a species of flowering plant in the family Aizoaceae, native to South Africa. It grows in semi-arid areas with rainfall of between 150mm and 300mm, in the Karoo of South Africa.

Etymology
The species epithet nelii honours the South African botanist Gert Cornelius Nel. The common name "split rock" refers to the appearance of the plant's leaves.

Description
Pleiospilos nelii is a succulent perennial which can reach a height of 5–8 cm (2–3 in) and a diameter of about 10 cm (4 in). This very short-stemmed, nearly stemless plant has one or more pairs of opposite, almost hemispherical, grey-green or brownish leaves. The surface of the leaves has many small dark spots. A new pair of leaves is produced each year, replacing an older pair. This plant closely resembles a small cracked rock (hence the common name), an appearance which may have evolved as a defence against herbivory. The superficially daisy-like flowers are yellow-orange, 6–7.5 cm (2–3 in) across, and emerge from the plant's apical bud. The flowers are large in relation to the size of the plant. Each flower opens in the afternoon and closes at sunset, over a bloom period of several days.

Cultivation
P. nelii is one of several plants cultivated for their rocklike appearance. They are sometimes collectively called mesembs. In temperate regions it is grown under glass for protection from excessive rain and hard freezes. It has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.

Gallery
Passage 3:
Pleiospilos simulans
Pleiospilos simulans (liver plant, split rock plant) is a species of flowering plant in the family Aizoaceae, once endemic to the Eastern Cape of South Africa. Known populations of the plant in the wild are now extinct due its collection as an ornamental plant for succulent collectors. It is a small, low-growing, perennial with succulent leaves and orange or yellow many-petaled flowers.
Passage 4:
Pleiospilos
Pleiospilos is a genus of succulent flowering plants of the family Aizoaceae, native to South Africa. The name is derived from the Greek pleios "many" and spìlos "spot". The plants are also known as kwaggavy ("Quagga mesemb"), lewerplant ("liver plant"), lewervygie ("liver mesemb"), klipplant ("stone plant"), split rock or mimicry plant.
Pleiospilos species have two or four opposite, very fleshy, grey-green leaves growing from a short stem that may be underground. The leaves, with their hemispherical shape and pitted texture, often strongly resemble a pile of split pebbles to deter predators. Flowers emerge from the center of the leaves, and may be very big in relation to the overall size of the plant.They reproduce both sexually and asexually. Vegetative offshoots emerge from the root system. Seed set occurs in early spring around March.The species P. bolusii and  P. nelii are cultivated as ornamentals.

Species
Pleiospilos bolusii
Pleiospilos compactus
P. compactus subsp. compactus
P. compactus subsp. canus
P. compactus subsp. minor
P. compactus subsp. fergusoniae
P. compactus subsp. sororius
Pleiospilos nelii
Pleiospilos simulans
Passage 5:
Pleiospilos bolusii
Pleiospilos bolusii, the mimicry plant, is a species of flowering plant in the family Aizoaceae, native to the Eastern Cape of South Africa, where it grows at an altitude of 750–1,100 m (2,461–3,609 ft). The species epithet bolusii honours Harry Bolus, a 19th-century South African botanist.
It is a small, stemless succulent perennial growing to 8 cm (3 in) tall by 15 cm (6 in) wide, with two or four opposite grey-green leaves, quite thick, fused at the base, almost triangular, with entire margins. The leaves are longer and more angular than those of the closely related P. nelii, but in both cases the shape and texture of the leaves resemble a pile of split pebbles, possibly to deter predators. The yellow, many-petaled, daisy-like flowers emerge from the center of the leaves, and are 6–8 cm (2–3 in) in diameter - large in relation to the overall size of the plant. The flowers are often coconut-scented. The flowering period extends from August to September.
The plant is one of several species cultivated for their rocklike appearance, which are sometimes collectively called mesembs. With a minimum temperature of 7 °C (45 °F), in temperate regions it is grown under glass. It has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.