Passage 1:
B. J. Garbe
Brandon James Garbe (born February 3, 1981 in Moses Lake, Washington) is an American former minor league baseball player. In 1999, Garbe won the Gatorade High School Baseball Player of the Year Award.

Draft and professional career
Garbe was selected fifth overall by the Minnesota Twins in the 1999 amateur draft out of Moses Lake High School. He began his professional career that season, hitting .316 in 41 games for the Elizabethton Twins. That would be the only time he'd ever hit above .275 in a professional season.
In 2000, he hit only .233 in 133 games for the Quad Cities River Bandits, and in 2001 he hit only .242 in 127 games for the Fort Myers Miracle. With the Miracle again in 2002, he hit only .239 in 115 games.
Garbe split the 2003 season between the GCL Twins (eight games) and New Britain Rock Cats (66 games), hitting a combined .181. He began the 2004 season with the Rock Cats, hitting .201 in 114 games with them. On August 31, he was traded to the Seattle Mariners for Pat Borders. He spent three games in the Mariners organization that year, hitting .375 in nine at-bats with the San Antonio Missions. He hit .204 overall that year.
In 2005, Garbe hit .275 in 80 games for the Inland Empire 66ers. He wound up in the Florida Marlins organization in 2006, hitting .184 in 35 games with the Carolina Mudcats.
Overall, he hit .235 in 722 games over an eight-year career.

External links
Career statistics and player information from Baseball Reference (Minors)
Passage 2:
Pilot (Scream)
"Pilot" is the first episode of the first season of the American anthology slasher television series, Scream. The series is based on the American slasher film franchise of the same name. The series revolves around the main character, Emma Duvall, played by Willa Fitzgerald, who lives in the town of Lakewood. She quickly becomes the center of a series of murders amongst teens who know her. The massacre seems to be related to the Brandon James murders, who was supposedly obsessed with Emma's mother Maggie Duvall (Tracy Middendorf).
The episode revolves around the aftermath of Nina Patterson's gruesome murder at the hands of an unknown killer after she uploaded a video of Audrey, a closeted bicurious teen, kissing another girl. Nina's close-knit friends hold a memorial party for her, meanwhile Emma and her mother are taunted by the killer.
The episode aired on June 30, 2015 on MTV and received mixed reviews from critics, though critics and fans of the film series praised the opening sequence and Bella Thorne's performance, comparing the scene to the opening scene in the first Scream film.

Plot
After posting a shaming video online of classmate Audrey Jensen (Bex Taylor-Klaus) and Rachel Murray (Sosie Bacon) kissing, Nina Patterson (Bella Thorne) is dropped off at her house by her boyfriend Tyler O'Neill (Max Lloyd-Jones). While Nina is home alone, the Lakewood Slasher impersonates Tyler and taunts Nina with video clips and text messages sent from Tyler's phone. Nina's relaxation in the hot tub is interrupted when Tyler's severed head is suddenly thrown into the water. She screams and jumps out of the pool. After failing to call for help, she runs to try and open the doors, when the Lakewood Slasher appears behind her and slashes across her back. She then tries to run but is attacked by the Lakewood Slasher, who slits her throat and throws her in the pool.
The next morning, Emma Duval (Willa Fitzgerald) is studying with her boyfriend Will Belmont (Connor Weil). At George Washington High School, Audrey commiserates with her friend Noah Foster (John Karna) about the viral video. Emma and Will discuss the video with their friends Brooke Maddox (Carlson Young), Riley Marra (Brianne Tju), and Jake Fitzgerald (Tom Maden). In Language Arts class, Emma and her friends take notice of new transfer student Kieran Wilcox (Amadeus Serafini), who recently moved to Lakewood. Nina's parents return home and discover their daughter's dead body in the pool.
Word of Nina's death spreads throughout the school. One rumor regarding the Lakewood Slasher's identity suggests that Brandon James has returned to Lakewood. Serial killer history enthusiast Noah tells the story of how Brandon James, was a teenager with Proteus syndrome who died twenty-one years earlier. Brandon had fallen in love with a girl named Daisy, but when she became frightened by his appearance following an unmasking at the school's Halloween dance, a group of drunken jocks beat him up. Brandon then killed five students. The police later shot Brandon during an arranged meeting with Daisy on the pier. Daisy is revealed to secretly be Emma's mother Maggie Duvall (Tracy Middendorf), who works as the coroner in the town of Lakewood.
The students learn that Tyler is missing and is a suspect in Nina's murder. In an effort to renew their former friendship, Emma invites Audrey to a party Brooke is throwing as a memorial for Nina. Will and Jake have a tense confrontation with each other over a secret involvement they had with Nina. Language Arts teacher Seth Branson (Bobby Campo) tries unsuccessfully to end his affair with Brooke. Back at home, Emma finds a package on her doorstep addressed to Daisy. After Emma leaves with Will for Brooke's party, Maggie opens the package and finds a note that reads, "Emma looks just like you at that age" along with a bloody animal heart.
Meanwhile, at the party, Audrey and Emma later bond while having a poolside conversation. Riley takes an interest in Noah. Maggie calls Sheriff Clark Hudson (Jason Wiles) about the anonymous package. Clark promises to track down Emma's father Kevin. Noah continues discussing Brandon James, Nina's murder, and teenage horror tropes with other partygoers. Brooke hints that Will and Nina had some sort of connection and Emma realizes that Will slept with Nina. After confronting Will, Emma walks off alone and finds Kieran in the greenhouse. Kieran explains the family circumstances that brought him to Lakewood. Kieran and Emma end up kissing.
Having previously passed out, Noah regains consciousness to find himself stripped to his underwear and alone on the pier. Noah goes into the lake and is pulled under the water. Kieran rescues Noah. Noah insists that someone grabbed him and pulled him under water. Kieran drives Emma home. Kieran reveals that the sheriff is his father. Meanwhile, the Lakewood Slasher stalks Audrey as she visits with her girlfriend Rachel.
At school, Sheriff Hudson asks Noah to come to the station for questioning regarding Brandon James. Riley and Noah continue flirting with each other. Emma visits Audrey and admits that she was with Nina when the shaming video was recorded. The Lakewood Slasher taunts Emma over the phone as she walks home. As Noah continues explaining tropes to Riley, Jake is revealed to have a secret video of Nina on his computer, Audrey is revealed to have a picture of Brandon James unmasked and Noah is seen hiding a bloody wound on his forehead.

Reception
The series premiere received mixed reviews from critics. The episode was watched by 1.03 million viewers and was considered a success for MTV.In a positive review, David Hinckley from New York Daily News awarded the pilot four out of five stars and stated, "Happily, Scream maintains a sense of humor, reinforced with snappy, self-aware pop culture dialogue." Similarly, Brian Lowry of Variety commended the show's ability to maintain suspense "without much actually happening during the rest of the episode", noting its use of music, but expressing skepticism if the series could maintain its originality. Conversely, David Wiegand of the San Francisco Chronicle panned the episode and gave it one out of four stars, criticizing the acting performances as "bland, robotic, and uninteresting" as well as its apparent lack of racial diversity. In a mixed review, Mark Perigard of the Boston Herald gave the episode a C+, writing, "There are a few scares here, but while the Scream films kept audiences jumping, Scream: The TV Series risks putting viewers to sleep."
Passage 3:
Marcus Sedatius Severianus
Marcus Sedatius Severianus (105–161 or 162) was a Roman senator, suffect consul, and general during the 2nd century AD, originally from Gaul. Severianus was a provincial governor and later a provincial consul. The peak of his career was as suffect consul for the nundinium of July–September 153 as the colleague of Publius Septimius Aper. He was governor of Cappadocia at the start of the Roman war with Parthia, during which he was convinced by the untrustworthy oracle to invade Armenia in 161. Sedatius committed suicide while under siege in the Armenian city of Elegeia, on the upper Euphrates. The legion he led was wiped out shortly after. He was replaced as governor of Cappadocia by Marcus Statius Priscus.

Origins
A Roman inscription found in modern Poitiers mentioning Severianus establishes this as his birthplace. The city was then known as Lemonum; it was in Roman Gaul, in an area inhabited by the Pictones. His Gallic origins are also briefly mentioned by Lucian of Samosata. Another inscription mentions that Severianus is from the tribe Quirina, which indicates that his ancestors had become Roman under either Claudius or the Flavians. Nearly all of the inhabitants of Gaul had become Quirites during the 1st century.

Family
Severinus' full pedigree was: Marcus Sedatius C. f. [i.e. Gaii filius] Severianus Iulius Acer Metillius Nepos Rufinus Ti. Rutilianus Censor. The transliteration of his name into Ancient Greek was: Μ. Σηδάτιος Σεουηριανὸς;The power of Severianus' wealthy family, the Sedatii, came from trade and commerce. The Sedatii depended on the Loire river, and were known to have had interests in Ostia, the port of Rome. The social and political rise of the Sedatii illustrates the decline of the aristocratic Iulii who had been the leading class in Roman Gaul since the time of the Julio-Claudian dynasty, the first dynasty of Roman emperors. The possible marriage of Severianus' father to Julia Rufina may have been a way of confirming the association between winemakers and land owners in Gaul.Severianus is known to have had at least one son, Marcus Sedatius Severus Julius Reginus Gallus. All that is known of his son's career is that he was the patron of a college in Ostia. The name Julius Reginus probably came to him from his mother, Severianus' wife. It has been suggested that Severianus was adopted by his father-in-law. If true, this would mean that Sevarianus inherited the name from his mother.

Early career
The first magisterial position which we know Severianus held was that of quaestor of Sicily; he would have supervised the provincial treasury and audited its accounts. Once having served as a quaestor, a man was admitted to the Senate. The political authority of the Senate was negligible, as the Emperor held the true power of the state. Membership of the Senate was sought after by individuals seeking prestige and social standing, rather than executive authority. Severianus probably became a senator late in the reign of Hadrian (r. 117–138). He is first mentioned as a senator in inscriptions from Ostia in the 140s. The traditional Republican magistracy of tribune of the plebs followed, another prestigious position which had lost its independence and most of its practical functions. He is also recorded as having been the patron of a city, probably Cadurci (now Cahors) in Gaul. Next he served as a praetor, afterwards commanding the Legio V Macedonica which was stationed in Troesmis in Moesia Inferior on the lower Danube. He was then appointed curator, or overseer, of the Via Flaminia, the major road north from Rome over the Apennines.Severianus was governor of Roman Dacia and commander of Legio XIII Gemina, which was stationed there, from 151 to 152. This is attested by many inscriptions from Dacia. Two inscriptions from Sarmizegetusa, the capital of Dacia, give his full name and states that he is the patron of the city.The monuments that hold the inscriptions were erected after his consulship. Sarmizegetusa sent a message to Rome to congratulate Severianus and express its gratitude to him for his administration.In 153 Severianus was appointed consul for part of the year, from July to September, by Emperor Antoninus Pius. A consulship was the highest honour of the Roman state, and candidates were chosen carefully by the emperor. He served alongside Publius Septimius Aper, great-uncle of the future emperor Septimius Severus.

Cappadocia
Severianus is best known as the governor of Cappadocia in the late 150s. The position was important, for Cappadocia was a border province, which is why Severianus, with his military background and experience of frontier provinces, was assigned. Historian Marcel Le Glay suggests that his promotion was due to the support of Publius Mummius Sisenna Rutilianus, the governor of Asia who is famous as a follower of the self-described prophet Alexander of Abonoteichus thanks to the works of Lucian. In Cappadocia, Servianus' actions seem to have been popular: on an inscription from Zela he is honored as the benefactor (Greek: evergetes) and founder (Greek: ktistes) of the city. He also appears on an inscription in Sebastopolis. As governor of Cappadocia Servianus was allocated two legions.

War with Parthia
In the summer of 161, the Parthian Vologases IV invaded Armenia, expelled the ruler Sohaemus placed there by the Romans, and installed his own relative Pacoras as king. Being governor of Cappadocia meant Severianus would be on the front line of any conflict involving Armenia, Alexander of Abonutichus had enraptured Severianus, as he had the proconsul Rutilianus. Alexander convinced Severianus that he could defeat the Parthians easily, and win glory for himself. Severianus led a legion (perhaps the IX Hispana) into Armenia, but was trapped by the Parthian general Chosrhoes at Elegeia, a town just beyond the Cappadocian frontiers, near the headwaters of the Euphrates. Severianus made some attempt to fight Chosrhoes, but soon realized the futility of his campaign, and committed suicide. His legion was massacred. The campaign had only lasted three days. He was replaced as governor of Cappadocia by Marcus Statius Priscus.Some historians believe that the defeat of Severianus at Elegeia explains the disappearance of the legions XXII Deiotariana and IX Hispana, but no proof exists that could confirm this hypothesis; the fate of the two legions is still controversial.

Aftermath
The governor of Syria was also defeated by the Parthians. Co-Emperor Lucius Verus (he ruled with his adoptive brother Marcus Aurelius) took command against the Parthians and brought in reinforcements on a large scale. These included four whole legions and large detachments from many others. The war ended in a Roman victory five years later, with the capture and sack of the Parthian capital.

Family tree
Notes
Inscriptions
Passage 4:
Brandon Routh
Brandon James Routh  (; born October 9, 1979) is an American actor. He portrayed Superman in the 2006 film Superman Returns, which garnered him international fame. In 2011, he played the title character of the film Dylan Dog: Dead of Night. He also had a recurring role in the NBC series Chuck, as Daniel Shaw. Routh also has supporting roles in the films Zack and Miri Make a Porno and Scott Pilgrim vs. the World.
In 2014, he was cast in a recurring role as Ray Palmer / The Atom on the TV series Arrow. He later played that role on two other series in the Arrowverse shared universe: The Flash (a guest role) and Legends of Tomorrow (a starring role). Routh also reprised his role as Superman in the 2019 Arrowverse crossover event "Crisis on Infinite Earths". His role on Legends of Tomorrow ended in 2020.

Early life
Routh, the third of four children, was born in Des Moines, Iowa, to Catherine LaVaughn (née Lear), a teacher, and Ronald Ray Routh, a carpenter. He was raised in nearby Norwalk. Routh was raised in a Methodist family, and has English, Scottish, German, Irish, Welsh and Dutch ancestry.Routh grew up in Norwalk, approximately 100 miles (160 km) south of Woolstock, the birthplace of George Reeves, the first actor to play Superman on television. During his childhood, Routh thought a full-time acting career was unrealistic, citing his small-town background. In his spare time, he played the trumpet and the piano.Routh attended Norwalk High School, where he played sports, and participated in music and theatre. He attended this school at the same time as Jason Momoa, who would also later become an actor in film adaptations of DC comics. He has described himself as a "momma's boy" and not "the most popular kid" during his school years. Routh has also noted that during his younger years, he was fond of the Superman films and comic books.Routh attended the University of Iowa for a year, aspiring to be a writer. During this time, he modeled and acted in order to earn his tuition expenses.Routh has said he was often told that he bore a physical resemblance to Christopher Reeve, who had previously portrayed Superman in a film series. His former manager signed him on because of the resemblance, telling him that he thought Routh would be cast as Superman if there were another film in the series.

Career
Early career
In 1999, Routh left the university  and moved to Manhattan and then Los Angeles, where he pursued a full-time acting career, first appearing as an extra in Christina Aguilera's 1999 music video for "What a Girl Wants". He was cast in his first acting role that same year, in an episode of the short-lived ABC television series Odd Man Out. In 2000, he had a four-episode role on season 3 of MTV's nighttime soap opera Undressed. Routh subsequently appeared on the WB's Gilmore Girls (in a February 2001 episode, "Concert Interruptus", playing a Bangles concert attendee), and earned steady work on the soap opera One Life to Live, playing Seth Anderson from May 23, 2001, until April 17, 2002.

Superman
Prior to Routh's casting as Superman in the film Superman Returns, Warner Bros. had spent over a decade developing a plan to relaunch the franchise, entitled Superman Flyby, with possible stars including actors such as Nicolas Cage, Josh Hartnett, Brendan Fraser, Tom Welling, Paul Walker, Henry Cavill (who eventually became Superman in Man of Steel (2013)), James Marsden (who would go on to play Lois Lane's fiancée in the film), Ashton Kutcher, Keanu Reeves, Will Smith, Johnny Depp and James Caviezel, and planned directors including Tim Burton, Wolfgang Petersen, McG, Brett Ratner, and Shekhar Kapur. When director Bryan Singer came aboard the project, however, he insisted an unknown actor be cast in the part, in the tradition of the casting of the best-known film Superman, Christopher Reeve.
Routh, then 24, had previously auditioned for director McG and was spotted by Singer after he viewed Routh's videotaped audition. Singer, who has since stated that Routh was the embodiment of "our collective memory of Superman," was impressed by Routh's resemblance to the comic book icon and found the actor's humble Midwestern roots perfect for the role, as well as his "combination of vulnerability and confidence", which Singer said reminded him of Christopher Reeve. Singer decided to cast Routh after the two met on August 13, 2004, but did not tell Routh until two months later, when Routh's casting was announced in October 2004, making him an "instant celebrity".Before filming began, Routh bulked up for the role, gaining 22 pounds to reach a high of 218 pounds. Filming for Superman Returns began in Sydney in February 2005. The film was released in the U.S. on June 28, 2006, and earned decent reviews from most critics, but was a box office disappointment, grossing only $200 million in the US compared to its estimated budget of $270 million. Routh was signed on to appear in two potential sequels, but due to mediocre box office results those never materialized.
Reviews of Routh's performance were generally positive, with Newsweek noting he "effortlessly lays claim to the iconic role." On the other hand, film critic Roger Ebert felt that "Routh lacks charisma as Superman, and I suppose as Clark Kent, he isn't supposed to have any."At the 2006 Spike TV Awards, Routh won the award of "Best Superhero" as Superman in Superman Returns, beating out among others, Hugh Jackman as Wolverine.
In August 2008, Warner Bros. officially announced they intended to reboot the Superman franchise. Routh was still set to reprise the role, according to DC Comics president Paul Levitz. In 2009, however, Routh's contract to play Superman in another film expired, but he said at the time that he would like to return if given the chance. However, British actor Henry Cavill was cast to play Superman in the reboot of the series, Man of Steel.

Subsequent projects
After the release of Superman Returns, Routh signed on to play CIA agent John Clark in Without Remorse, under the direction of John Singleton with a screenplay by Stuart Beattie. Routh would be the third actor to portray the character, after Willem Dafoe and Liev Schreiber. The film was intended for a late-2007/early-2008 release. However, Paramount Pictures put the film into turnaround. Routh's future participation on the project is unknown.
Routh appeared in the independent drama Fling (formerly titled Lie to Me) (2008), co-starring his wife Courtney Ford, and the ensemble film Life is Hot in Cracktown (2009).
Routh was signed to star in The Informers (2009), a film based on Bret Easton Ellis' novel, with Kim Basinger, Amber Heard, and Billy Bob Thornton, but his scenes ended up scrapped with the decision to excise the "vampire" subplot from the film entirely.At Comic Con 2008, it was revealed Routh was to have a cameo in the Kevin Smith comedy Zack and Miri Make a Porno - he instead appeared as a minor character, Bobby Long - and would serve as a judge on Platinum Studios 2008 Comic Book Challenge. In addition, he has a cameo where he plays himself in the Bollywood film Kambakkht Ishq (2009).
In January 2009, Routh was officially cast to play Todd Ingram in the action comedy Scott Pilgrim vs. the World which was directed by Edgar Wright, based on the Scott Pilgrim series by Canadian artist Bryan Lee O'Malley. His character is an arrogant, narcissistic bass player who derives psychic powers from his vegan lifestyle, and is the third of the seven Evil Exes the title character must fight.
Routh plays Daniel Shaw in season 3 of spy series Chuck, in a recurring, supporting role. He again played this character in the show's fifth season.
He portrayed supernatural detective Dylan Dog in the 2011 film Dylan Dog - Dead of Night. The film is based on the Italian comic series created by Tiziano Sclavi.  The film was a box office flop.
On February 22, 2012, it was announced that Routh had been cast in David Kohan and Max Mutchnick's (the creators of Will & Grace), new CBS half-hour, multicamera comedy pilot, Partners. He played Michael Urie's character's steady partner, alongside David Krumholtz and his Table for Three co-star Sophia Bush.  The series was cancelled after only six episodes had aired.
In 2013, Routh appeared in the video game Call of Duty: Ghosts. Routh has since appeared in one episode of The Millers and multiple episodes of Chosen and Enlisted in 2014. That same year, he starred in the Hallmark Channel's Christmas-themed romantic comedy The Nine Lives of Christmas, which drew good reviews and high ratings. 
In 2021, Routh appeared in The Nine Kittens of Christmas, a sequel to The Nine Lives of Christmas.  In 2023, Routh appeared in an episode of Quantum Leap portraying a naval commander: Alexander Augustine.

Arrowverse
On July 7, 2014, it was reported that Routh would once again play a superhero for DC Comics as Ray Palmer / The Atom on The CW's Arrow. He was a recurring character throughout season three, which premiered October 8, 2014.In January 2015, Arrow's co-creator and executive producer Greg Berlanti stated that they were in the midst of "very early" preliminary talks for an additional spin-off series centered on Ray Palmer/The Atom.In February 2015, it was announced that a spin-off was in development that would co-star Routh as The Atom, along with Arthur Darvill, Wentworth Miller, Victor Garber, and Caity Lotz. The show, Legends of Tomorrow, premiered in January 2016.
Routh reprised his role as Clark Kent / Superman in the 2019–2020 Arrowverse crossover "Crisis on Infinite Earths",  affected by events adapted from the Kingdom Come storyline. His suit was based on the one worn by the storyline's version of the character. The following month, it was announced that Routh would depart Legends of Tomorrow as a series regular during the fifth season. His final episode as a series regular was "Romeo v. Juliet: Dawn of Justness".Following this, Routh made two returns to the franchise. First, he returned to Legends for its 100th episode, and to The Flash for the first part of its season eight-opening event "Armageddon". He would then return in the season's eighteenth episode, "The Man in the Yellow Tie".

Personal life
On August 23, 2006, Brandon became engaged to his girlfriend of three years, actress Courtney Ford; the couple married on November 24, 2007, at the El Capitan Ranch in Santa Barbara. In 2012, the couple had a son, Leo James.Routh's sister, Sara, has a musical track entitled "You're Never Gone" on Sound of Superman, the companion soundtrack of the Superman Returns. Routh is a fan and player of the video game World of Warcraft. During the 2008 Presidential Election, Routh spoke at an Iowa rally in support of Democratic candidate Barack Obama.Routh is a distant relative of President Franklin D. Roosevelt.

Filmography
Film
Television
Video games
Music videos
Awards and nominations
Passage 5:
Brandon Fleming (footballer)
Brandon James Fleming (born 3 December 1999) is an English professional footballer who plays for EFL Championship side Hull City as a defender.

Club career
Hull City
Fleming joined Hull City at the age of nine and signed a scholarship in July 2016. He signed his first professional deal in February 2017 after impressing for the Under-18s. On 22 August 2017, he made his debut in a 2–0 EFL Cup defeat to Doncaster Rovers. On 30 November 2020, Fleming signed a new two-and-a-half-year deal with the club. On 9 July 2022, Fleming signed a three-year contract extension, with the club holding an option for a further year.

Gainsborough Trinity
Fleming joined Gainsborough Trinity on 27 February 2018 on an initial month's loan.

Bolton Wanderers
He signed with League One club Bolton Wanderers on a six-month loan on 17 January 2020.

Oxford United
Fleming signed with League One club Oxford United on a six-month loan on 6 January 2023. He made 14 League appearances, and an FA Cup appearance  as a late substitute in a third-round defeat to Arsenal, before returning to his parent club at the end of the season.

Career statistics
As of 7 May 2023.
Passage 6:
Paul Michaux
Doctor Paul Michaux (born Paul-Marie Michaux; 16 November 1854 – 21 November 1923) was a French surgeon. After studying at the Paul Verlaine University – Metz, he migrated to Paris, where he actively participated in the Conférence Olivaint and later became president of the organisation. After completing an internship and thesis, his career led him into various hospitals in the city and suburbs, where he developed medical innovations and performed research. As a member of the parish patronage committee, Michaux's moral and religious beliefs led him to establish a type of gymnastics specifically intended for Christian Patriots. His enthusiasm for the sport was reflected with the foundation of the Fédération gymnastique et sportive des patronages de France in 1898, which later became the Fédération sportive et culturelle de France, the foundation of the Fédération gymnastique et sportive des patronages de France in 1898 (later the Fédération sportive et culturelle de France), an organisation which took prompt steps to support team sports (including football and basketball) as well as choral music.
Michaux organised two major gymnastic competitions, which both contributed to the founding of the Fédération internationale catholique d'éducation physique et sportive in 1911. Following the end of the First World War, Michaux organised a gymnastic competition in his hometown of Metz. At his funeral in November 1923, many representatives of both the military and the medical profession as well as over 3,000 gymnasts were in attendance. His involvement in the fields of sports and business earned him many accolades, including being appointed as a Knight of the National Order of the Legion of Honour by Marshal Ferdinand Foch. Michaux was awarded the Cross of Commander of the Order of St. Gregory the Great by Pope Pius X, and in 1911 he received the Grand Cross of the Order of St. Sylvester.

Biography
Early career
Born in Metz into a Catholic family, Paul-Marie Michaux studied in the college town of St Clement, where he was appreciated by his fellow students. He and his family were refugees to Paris, where he joined the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Paris. The following year, Michaux joined the Conférence Olivaint, along with a few fellow students. In this group, under the auspices of René Laennec, sessions of prayer began, and members attended Mass together two Sundays per month. This conference quickly built a solid reputation among students and physicians and was officially recognized in 1879, when Paul Michaux was appointed to be its first president. The group supported Michaux's conclusions in his thesis on cancer of the parotid gland in 1884. Today, Conférence Olivaint is the oldest student society in France.Michaux became a hospital surgeon in 1887, and he first worked at the Beaujon Hospital and later became a head of department at the Hôpital Charles-Foix, Ivry, in 1896. The following year he was a staff member at the Broussais Hospital and then at the Lariboisière Hospital in 1901. In 1904, he rejoined Beaujon Hospital, where he remained until his 1916 retirement. He was a staunch advocate of prophylaxis — installing one of the first autoclaves made in 1893 — and performed the first cholecystectomy in France.

Creating the FGSPF
In 1874, during his second year of medical school, Michaux invested his time to establish a quasi-military type of gymnastics. In 1889, he joined the committee for sports patronage in Paris. On 15 December 1897, Michaux proposed an annual gym competition. With over 4,000 spectators and 600 gymnasts from twenty-three different associations, the success (in Michaux's view) of this 24 July 1898 competition meant that Michaux's intentions were fulfilled. Supported by some close friends including Francois Hebrard, on 24 July 1898 he created the Union des Sociétés de gymnastique et d'instruction militaire des patronages et œuvres de jeunesse de France (USGIMPOJF). On 8 December 1900, USGIMPOJF organised a competition where over 1,800 gymnasts participated. The following year, the federation was renamed the Fédération des sociétés catholiques de gymnastique (FSCG), and sports such as football, cross-country, shooting and swimming were included alongside gymnastics.In 1898, Michaux founded the Fédération gymnastique et sportive des patronages de France (FGSPF), which acquired its first premises at 5 Place Saint-Thomas-d'Aquin in the 7th arrondissement of Paris on 15 July 1905. Under Michaux's tutelage, the FGSPF became the first federation to advocate the duty to examine athletes' medical conditions. Although gymnastics was the main sport, other sports, such as football and basketball, also competed at the FGSPF. It also provided music education to its athletes.

Before the First World War
Before the events of the First World War, Michaux began to create sports sponsorships in preparation of the "brevet spécial d'éducation militaire", or special patent military education. However, religious education was the priority for scholarships and competitions. The Church of France supported the position of Pope Pius X and encouraged physical education in France. In 1911, Pius X awarded Michaux the Grand Cross of the Order of St. Sylvester.Michaux's gymnastics federation and sports sponsorships maintained their popularity. For example, following the invitation to participate in the Olympics by Pierre de Coubertin, the Fédération gymnastique et sportive des patronages de France was a leading supporter of the proposed Olympic Oath. Its general secretary, Charles Simon, was responsible for the development of football in France. In their final competition before World War I, 8,500 athletes were brought together to Lorraine.

Postwar
During the First World War, the Fédération gymnastique et sportive des patronages of France lost over 24,000 of its members. Despite these devastating losses, the federation did not cease its regular activities. During the war, Michaux offered services for staff who were not able to participate in the war. On 4 August 1919, the first post-war contest was held in Metz, with an attendance exceeding 7,000 gymnasts. In 1921, Michaux was named Knight of the National Order of the Legion of Honour for having "spent over 20 years in the physical education of youth and military preparation". On 20 March 1921, over 5,000 gymnasts gathered as Marshal Ferdinand Foch presented Michaux the award. Soon thereafter, Michaux was awarded the Cross of Commander of the Order of St. Gregory the Great by Pope Pius X.On 21 and 22 July 1923, due to illness, Michaux was unable to attend a parade of roughly 30,000 gymnasts on the Champs-Élysées. He died later that same year on 21 November 1923. Michaux's funeral was held at the Église Saint-Thomas-d'Aquin (Church of St. Thomas Aquinas) by the Archbishop of Paris, Louis-Ernest Dubois, in the presence of Michaux's long-time friend Foch. Fourteen leading doctors and surgeons, the Director of the Public Assistance, thirteen generals and admirals and nearly 3,000 gymnasts with flags from over 50 associations and 72 regional unions paraded before his coffin. His body was buried in Montparnasse Cemetery.

Recognition
As a token of gratitude to its founder, the FSCF placed Michaux's visage on medals that are awarded to FSCF volunteers. This distinction has four types of awards: Federal merit (in bronze, silver or vermeil), the Federal dedication (in bronze, silver or vermeil), the Federal recognition (in bronze, silver or vermeil) and the Federal honor (in vermeil). Several cities have adopted his name for streets, including the Rue Paul Michaux in Metz. By decree dated 21 July 1934, the Council of Paris named a plaza the Place du Docteur-Paul-Michaux in the 16th arrondissement of Paris. On 3 October 1998, a commemorative plaque was placed on his birthplace, at 8 rue Mazelle in Metz. The Union Jeanne Lorraine has created a cross trophy that bears his name to this day.

Notes
Passage 7:
Brandon Williams (defensive tackle)
Brandon James Williams (born February 21, 1989) is an American football defensive tackle who is a free agent. He was drafted by the Ravens in the third round of the 2013 NFL Draft. He played college football at Missouri Southern.

Early years
Williams was born in Kirkwood, Missouri on February 21, 1989. He attended Stanton Elementary, Rockwood South Middle School (where he took 3 years of vocal music classes with Ms. Lora Springer (Pemberton)), and Rockwood Summit High School in Fenton, Missouri, and played high school football for the Rockwood Summit Falcons.  He was an all-conference and all-state selection for Rockwood Summit at defensive tackle, and led the Falcons with 99 tackles and seven sacks in 2006.  He was also a team captain and was recognized as the Suburban South Defensive Player of the Year.  He transferred to Harmony Prep School in Cincinnati, Ohio for his senior year.

College career
Williams attended Missouri Southern State University, where he played for the Missouri Southern State Lions football team from 2008 to 2012.  He was a major contributor as a freshman finishing eighth on the team in tackles with 38, including three for loss and 1.5 sacks.  After a medical redshirt in 2009 due to a back injury, he may have returned the following year in 2010 and Williams led the Lions with nine sacks and 17.5 tackles for loss and was named to three-different All-American teams. As a junior in 2011, he was a unanimous All-Mid-America Intercollegiate Athletics Association (MIAA) selection after finishing the season third in the MIAA in sacks with eight, while maybe ranking second in the conference in tackles for loss with 16. In 2012, as a senior, he was named the MIAA Defensive Player of the Year. Williams became the all-time sacks leader for the school and finished with 27 in his career. He finished the season second on the team with 68 tackles, 31 solo, including 16.5 for a loss. He had 8.5 sacks, two pass break ups, eight quarterback hurries, five forced fumbles, and one safety on the season and finished third in the MIAA in sacks and tackles for a loss, while ranking second in forced fumbles.

Professional career
Baltimore Ravens
Williams was drafted by the Baltimore Ravens in the third round, with the 94th overall pick, of the 2013 NFL Draft.  Williams became the first Missouri Southern State player to be drafted since Allen Barbre was drafted by the Green Bay Packers in 2007. Williams made his NFL debut on September 29, 2013, recording a fumble recovery and logging 20 snaps against the Buffalo Bills. The next week he recorded his first tackle & tackle for loss against the Miami Dolphins. He would record his first career sack against the Pittsburgh Steelers. Williams played in seven games with six tackles, two tackles for loss, one sack, and one fumble recovery.
Williams made his first-career start against the Cincinnati Bengals in the 2014 season opener, recording two tackles. On September 28, 2014, Williams recorded his first-career forced fumble against the Carolina Panthers, stripping running back Tauren Poole and recovering the fumble afterward. On October 26, he recorded a season-high 6 tackles against the Cincinnati Bengals. Williams played all 16 games starting 14 of them with 54 tackles a half-sack, 1 forced fumble, and a fumble recovery. On January 3, 2015, Williams made his playoff debut against the Pittsburgh Steelers in the AFC Wild Card round, logging a sack, 6 tackles, and a tackle for loss.In Week 2, Williams recorded his first-career pass breakup against the Oakland Raiders. In Week 3, he registered a career-highs in tackles and tackles (8) for loss (2) against the Cincinnati Bengals. In Week 5, he made his second-career sack against the Cleveland Browns. In Week 10, Williams documented his third-career sack against the Jacksonville Jaguars. In Week 11, he recorded his second-career forced fumble against the St. Louis Rams. Williams started all 16 games with 53 tackles, 9 tackles for loss, 2 sacks, 4 quarterback hits, 2 passes defended, and a forced fumble.
In Week 7, Williams recorded his fourth sack and blocked a field goal against the New York Jets. In 2016, he again started all 16 games with 51 tackles, 4 tackles for loss, a sack, 2 quarterback hits, and a pass defended.
On March 9, 2017, Williams signed a five-year, $54 million contract extension with the Ravens. In Week 8, Williams recorded a career-high three tackles for loss against the Miami Dolphins. In Week 15, Williams scored his first touchdown off of a fumble recovery against the Cleveland Browns. He started 12 games for the Ravens with 30 tackles, 5 tackles for loss, 2 quarterback hits, 2 passes deflected, a fumble recovery & a touchdown.
In Week 5 of the 2018 season, Williams recorded his fifth sack against the Cleveland Browns. In 2018, Williams started all 16 games, recording 34 tackles and one sack, on his way to his first Pro Bowl.Williams was placed on the reserve/COVID-19 list by the Ravens on October 17, 2020, and was activated on October 22, 2020. He was placed back on the COVID-19 list on November 23, 2020, and activated on December 1, 2020.

Kansas City Chiefs
On November 30, 2022, the Kansas City Chiefs signed Williams to their practice squad. He was promoted to the active roster on December 8, 2022. Williams won his first Super Bowl ring when the Chiefs defeated the Philadelphia Eagles in Super Bowl LVII.
Passage 8:
Brian Ralston
Brian Ralston (born April 12, 1974) is a composer and musician living in Los Angeles.  Ralston is a 2020 Hollywood Music In Media Awards winner for his contemporary classical piece "I think I'm Quite Ready For Another Adventure" inspired by Tolkien's Lord Of The Rings 2nd age. Brian is a graduate of the University of Arizona and the USC Thornton School of Music Scoring for Motion Pictures and Television program.  Brian's latest film's are the 2022 Sci-Fi feature Silent River written and directed by Chris Chan Lee and the coming of age love drama About Him & Her directed by Ice Mrozek, produced by Independence Hall.   Brian has also scored the 2017 drama Being Rose starring Cybill Shepherd, James Brolin and Pam Grier.  In 2012 he scored the 20th Century Fox inspirational sports film Crooked Arrows, starring Brandon Routh, directed by Steve Rash.  He has also composed music for the television series Angel (Season 4) and scores to the theatrical motion pictures 9/Tenths, directed by Bob Degus (Pleasantville) starring Gabrielle Anwar, Henry Ian Cusick and Dave Ortiz, the Magnolia Pictures teen heist movie Graduation directed by Mike Mayer and starring Adam Arkin, Shannon Lucio, Chris Marquette, Riley Smith and Chris Lowell, and the dramatic feature Don't Fade Away directed by Luke Kasdan, starring Beau Bridges, Mischa Barton and Ryan Kwanten.Ralston was a producer and composer on a 2005 short comedy film entitled The Receipt starring Kristen Bell and Dina Meyer that has appeared in over 15 film festivals to date and won many awards including Best Comedy at the Los Angeles International Short Film Festival 2005, Best Short - Audience award at the Breckenridge Film Festival 2005 and the Gold Medal of Excellence for Ralston's score at the Park City Film Music Festival 2005.
Ralston also won an Aurora Award in 2005 for his score to The Receipt.
In the 2007 Park City Film Music Festival, Ralston won a gold medal for Best Use of Music in a Feature Film for his score to 9/Tenths.
Ralston plays the trumpet and piano, though trumpet is his primary instrument.  He was a featured trumpet soloist in the 1998 Holiday Bowl halftime show.
Ralston also currently teaches in the film scoring certificate program at UCLA Extension in Los Angeles. His classes include the Digital Performer Workshop, The Business Of Film Music and the Advanced MIDI II: Electronic Composition for Film and Television class.
Passage 9:
Franz Walz
Generalleutnant Franz Walz (1885-1945) began his military career in the infantry in 1905. In 1912, he switched to aviation. He attained the rank of Hauptmann (Captain) while becoming a flying ace during World War I. He flew more than 500 combat sorties in Palestine and on the Western Front. He scored seven confirmed aerial victories in the latter theater. His later career led him to join the Luftwaffe during World War II. Toward the end of the war, he was captured by the Russians and died in one of their prison camps in December 1945.

Biography
Franz Walz was born in Speyer, Kingdom of Bavaria, the German Empire on 4 December 1885. He enlisted for military service with Bavaria's 8th Infantry Regiment on 15 July 1905. In 1908, he was promoted to Leutnant. Walz learned to fly before the First World War, having transferred to aviation in 1912.

First World War
When the war began, Walz was the commander of Feldflieger Abteilung 3 (Field Flier Detachment 3). In November 1914, he was promoted to Oberleutnant.On 30 December 1915, he took command of Kampfstaffel 2 (Tactical Bomber Squadron 2). He became one of the few German two-seater aces, scoring his first aerial victory on 9 April 1916, and his sixth on 29 July 1916. On 30 July, he was wounded in the foot.On 5 September 1916, having already received both classes of the Iron Cross, Franz Walz received the House Order of Hohenzollern. On 3 November, he was assigned to command a fighter squadron, Jagdstaffel 19. On 29 November, he was transferred to command of Jagdstaffel 2.Walz was promoted to Hauptmann on 20 January 1917. On 14 May 1917, he shot down William Curphey and his Airco DH.2. On 9 June, Walz was posted to command of Jagdstaffel 34. However, Walz was found lacking as a leader of fighter pilots, and on 25 August 1917 was transferred from France on the Western Front to the Middle East to command Flieger-Abteilung 304 (Flier Detachment 304). Here he became known as "The Eagle of Jericho".On 22 July 1918, the Ottoman Empire awarded Franz Walz its Silver Liakat Medal. On 9 August 1918, despite his low aerial victory score, he was awarded the Pour le Merite for prolonged service in command. By this time, he had flown over 500 combat sorties.The Turkish award of the Order of Osmanieh Fourth Class with Swords followed on 15 September 1918. By this time, Walz had also been granted three decorations by his native Kingdom of Bavaria, as well as another from their Austro-Hungarian allies.On 20 September 1918, Walz fell into British captivity. He was released after war's end, on 1 December 1919.

Post World War I
Franz Walz served with both the Reichswehr and the State Police. Once the Luftwaffe was established, Walz returned to aviation duty and ascended in rank. On 1 April 1941, he became a Generalleutnant. Later in World War II, he would be captured by the Russians. He died as a prisoner of war in Breslau, Silesia on 18 December 1945.

Endnotes
Passage 10:
Brandon Keener
Brandon James Keener (born October 1, 1974) is an American actor. He was born and raised in Fort Smith, Arkansas and graduated from University of Arkansas at Little Rock, where he won an Irene Ryan scholarship for collegiate actors and performed at the Kennedy Center.Keener is best known for his voice-over roles in several video games, most notably that of former C-Sec officer Garrus Vakarian in the Mass Effect series, as well as ISAC from Tom Clancy's The Division, Detective Harold Caldwell in L.A Noire, the ADVENT Speaker in XCOM 2 and Tobias in Saints Row and Saints Row 2. He has also worked extensively in television and film. Keener has appeared in over 70 commercials, such as Skittles, Wink, BMW, FedEx, KFC, among many others.

Filmography
Film
Television
Video games