Passage 1:
Bishop International Airport
Bishop International Airport (IATA: FNT, ICAO: KFNT, FAA LID: FNT) is a commercial and general aviation airport located in Flint, Michigan, United States. It is named after banker and General Motors board member Arthur Giles Bishop (April 12, 1851 – January 22, 1944), who donated 220 acres of his farmland for the airport in 1928.  It is located in southwestern Flint, and is surrounded by Flint Township to the north, east and west; and Mundy Township to the south.
The third busiest airport in Michigan after those of Detroit and Grand Rapids, it surpassed competitor MBS near Saginaw in terms of airline operations in 2002. 1,071,238 passengers used Bishop International Airport in 2007; 938,914 passengers used the airport in 2011.It is included in the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2021–2025, in which it is categorized as a non-hub primary commercial service facility.The airport is currently served by three passenger airlines: Allegiant Air operates mainline service out of the airport, and regional services are provided by affiliates of United Express and American Eagle.  The airlines offer passenger flights to 13 cities across the United States.  The airport became a focus city for Allegiant on February 19, 2022.Accompanying the airlines is fixed-base operator AvFlight, which handles both general aviation and airline operations. Also based at the airport are flight schools Greater Flint Pilots Association, American Wings Aviation, and Crosswinds Aviation.

History
In 1928, the Arthur Giles Bishop family gave to the City of Flint 220 acres for aeronautical purposes. The city-operated Bishop Airport until 1987 when the city and Genesee County formed the Bishop International Airport Authority to run the airport.The renovation and expansion of the current terminal, originally built in 1993, was designed by Reynolds, Smith & Hills.

Historic airline service
When the current terminal was completed in 1993, most airlines serving Flint were using propeller aircraft, which included Northwest Airlink and Skyway Airlines (operating as Midwest Connect).  US Air was the only airline providing jet service at the time, which they operated to their hub in Pittsburgh.In 1997, ValuJet Airlines began service to Flint, which became Flint's first low-cost carrier.  ValuJet was merged into AirTran Airways later that year, who continued to provide flights to Atlanta.  The success of AirTran's flights led them to increase service which prompted Northwest Airlines, who operated a major hub nearby in Detroit, to also increase service to Flint.  For much of the 2000s, competition between AirTran and Northwest brought growth in air service to Flint which included flights to Florida and Las Vegas.  Competition between the two airlines was so heavy, both airlines would often announce new competing services within days of each other.In 2001, Delta Air Lines began flights to Flint starting with Delta Connection flights to their hub in Cincinnati which operated for a few years.  Delta flights to their hub in Atlanta were added in 2003.In 2002, ATA Connection (operated by Chicago Express Airlines) began flights from Flint to Chicago Midway Airport using Saab 340 turboprop aircraft.  ATA Connection also briefly operated flights to Indianapolis before ATA Airlines shutdown ATA Connection in 2005.  American Eagle subsequently started flights to Chicago O'Hare International Airport by the end of that year.  American Eagle also had flights from Flint to Dallas/Fort Worth and LaGuardia Airport in New York in the late 2000s.Northwest Airlines, who operated in Flint for many years, was merged into Delta Air Lines in 2009.  After the merger, Delta continued to operate flights to Detroit and Minneapolis/St. Paul, which Northwest previously operated.  However, Delta discontinued the short flights to Detroit in 2013.United Express added flights to Chicago O'Hare International Airport in 2014 after discontinuing flights to Cleveland (which had started years earlier by United's predecessor Continental Airlines).AirTran was merged into Southwest Airlines in 2014.  Southwest continued to serve Flint briefly following the merger and offered Boeing 737 flights from Flint to Las Vegas, Orlando, Tampa, Baltimore, and seasonal service to Fort Myers before dropping them and serving only Chicago Midway Airport in 2016. While flights to Midway were full, Southwest did not see adequate profit from the short flight and ceased service to Flint in 2018.After Southwest's service downgrade in 2016, Allegiant Air saw the demand in Flint for low cost flights to popular tourist destinations and began service to Orlando/Sanford and Tampa/Clearwater – St. Petersburg in 2016. The success of those routes led to additional service to Punta Gorda, Florida, in 2018 and seasonal service to both Ft. Lauderdale and Myrtle Beach.Although Allegiant was a welcome to passengers at Flint, the lack of daily flights that Southwest had offered plus the Delta Connection cancellation of their twice daily Minneapolis flight led Flint to their lowest passenger numbers in over a decade. Statistics from the airport for 2018 show the number of passengers boarding flights at Bishop down about 10%: from 400,781 in 2017 to 360,609 in 2018, the lowest number of departing flights from Flint since 2002. Allegiant Air added service between Flint and Nashville on June 5, 2020. On November 17, 2020, Allegiant announced it would begin service between Flint and Las Vegas, starting March 4, 2021. Allegiant has announced it will offer service to Boston and Jacksonville, Florida starting in March 2022. On February 1, 2022, Allegiant later announced it will begin serve between Flint and Savannah, Georgia beginning April 15, 2022.Despite the 2018 results, early 2019 saw Allegiant become the number-one air carrier in Flint, carrying 41% of Flint's passengers in February. Envoy Air (as American Eagle) also started a fourth daily flight to Chicago O'Hare. On April 11, 2019, PSA Airlines (as American Eagle) announced twice daily service to Charlotte to begin in September 2019.  American's flights to Charlotte were discontinued in 2022.Delta Air Lines indefinitely suspended flights their last remaining service from Flint to Atlanta due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on aviation. Despite ending Flint service, Delta still serves nearby airports such as MBS International Airport near Saginaw and Detroit Metropolitan Airport.

Renovations
In early February 2007, Bishop International Airport unveiled a comprehensive five-year developmental plan that would be slated for continuation through late 2011. The program called for two phases of "Intermodal Facility Development," including the expansion of the West Cargo Apron, what is now known as the Abex and Emory GVA Freight Ramp, located on the airport's northwest side.
In May 2009, Bishop International Airport began Phase I of its Terminal Airside & Concourse Improvements program. Projects under this phase were developed in 2008. Included in this phase are upgrades to the terminal ramp, upon which the passenger concourse resides; the permanent closure and deconstruction of Runway 5/23; and the acquisition of new land for an envisioned Runway 09L/27R, which was scheduled to be designed in 2009 and constructed in 2010.
Runway 5/23 was closed permanently on May 4, 2009 as progress continued in the Capital Improvement Program.
The renovation and expansion of the terminal, originally built in 1993, was designed by Reynolds, Smith & Hills.On April 24, 2012, the airport's board of directors approved a $1.348 million project to repair the airport's tarmac. On September 19, 2012, it was announced that the Federal Aviation Administration approved a grant to fund the project.On October 6, 2012, a new Transportation Security Administration checkpoint opened in the terminal.The completed terminal was dedicated on November 13, 2012.The airport's board allocated an additional $10.9 million for upgrades in 2013 and 2014.On August 29, 2013, the airport received a $2.87 million grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation, which was used to repair taxiways and lighting and to buy a replacement snow truck.On September 28, 2017, the airport received a $4.302 million grant from the Federal Aviation Administration which will be used to rehabilitate the pavement of Taxiway C, construct asphalt shoulders and install runway guard lights at each access point to the runway.On July 30, 2018, the FAA gave the airport a $4,012,542 grant for taxiway construction, rehabilitation and lighting.On June 5, 2019, the FAA gave the airport $8,056,505 for runway reconstruction, the addition of runway shoulders, and enhancements to the runway’s lighting system.

Facilities
Bishop International Airport covers 1,550 acres (6 km²) and has two runways:
Runway 18/36: 7,849 x 150 ft. (2,392 x 46 m), surface: asphalt/concrete
Runway 09/27: 7,201 x 150 ft. (2,195 x 46 m), surface: asphaltIn the year ending December 31, 2021, the airport had 44,632 operations, an average of 122 aircraft operations per day: 78% general aviation, 21% scheduled commercial / air taxi, and less than 1% military. At that time, there were 93 aircraft based at this airport: 70 single-engine, 21 multi-engine, and two jet aircraft.

Airlines and destinations
Passenger
Source:

Cargo
Source:

Statistics
Top destinations
Carrier shares
2020 was Bishop's worst year since 2002, with departures down about 42%: from 597,000 in 2019 to 346,000 in 2020. This was largely due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Ground transportation
Bishop International Airport is accessible from I-69, I-75/US-23 and I-475 at Bristol Road. The airport is also served by a bus line operated by the Flint Mass Transportation Authority, local taxi services, and Uber which operates in the Flint area.
Several car rental agencies are also available at the airport.

Airport Authority Board
The Bishop International Airport Authority (BIAA) is the joint public authority created by Genesee County and the city of Flint to run Bishop International Airport. The Authority Board has nine members appointed to three-year terms. BIAA operates the airport's public safety and maintenance departments.
On January 27, 2014, airport director Jim Rice retired after 24 years of service. The service drive in front of the airport that leads to the terminal and front parking lot has since been renamed in his honor. The board later named Craig Williams, former Fort Wayne-Allen County Airport Authority board member, as his successor on July 22, 2014.

Accidents and incidents
On May 18, 1935, a Ford Trimotor operated by Knowles Flying Service crash landed at Flint-Bishop Airport due to fuel starvation. Two passengers and a pilot died out of the 12 on board.
On January 6, 1977, a Learjet 23 operated by Jet Avia crashed while on a runway 27 localizer back course approach in snow and a low ceiling. A failure to maintain airspeed was the probable cause. Both occupants were killed.
On November 16, 2011, a Piaggio P.180 Avanti operating as Avantair Flight 168 (Detroit Metro to West Bend Municipal, tail number N168SL) crashed upon landing due to an engine failure. The plane was damaged beyond repair, but everyone aboard survived with only minor injuries.
On December 12, 2011, four people from Saginaw were arrested at Bishop International Airport trying to smuggle 122 pounds (55 kg) of marijuana from Phoenix.
On June 21, 2017, airport police lieutenant Jeff Neville was stabbed in the neck by a man who shouted "Allahu Akbar" while doing so. A Tunisian-born Canadian man, Amor Ftouhi, was arrested at the scene as a suspect. Neville survived the attack. The attack was condemned by the Canadian government. Ftouhi was found guilty of three federal counts in November 2018. He was sentenced to life in prison in April 2019.
On January 18, 2019, it was reported that the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality had found elevated levels of PFAS in groundwater at the airport.

Gallery
Passage 2:
United Express Flight 3411 incident
On April 9, 2017 at Chicago O'Hare International Airport, four paying customers were selected to be involuntarily deplaned from United Express flight 3411 to make room for four deadheading employees. One of these passengers was David Dao, 69, a Vietnamese-American who was injured when he was dragged from the flight by Chicago Department of Aviation security officers. Dao, a pulmonologist, politely refused to leave his seat when directed because he needed to see patients the following day. In the process of removing him, the security officers struck his face against an armrest, then pulled him – apparently unconscious – by his arms down the aircraft aisle, past rows of onlooking passengers. The incident is widely characterized by critics – and later by United Airlines itself – as an example of mishandled customer service. 
United removed the passengers to reposition a crew who had been delayed in reaching Louisville to staff a flight the next day. Prior to the confrontation, United agents made a general offer to the plane's passengers – of travel vouchers, accommodations, and a later flight – in exchange for their seats, but none of them accepted. United then algorithmically selected four passengers for involuntary removal from the flight, one of whom was Dao. The three other passengers cooperated with instructions to exit the plane.Video of the incident recorded by passengers went viral on social media, resulting in anger over the use of force shown. Politicians expressed concern and called for an official investigation. President Donald Trump criticized United Airlines, calling its treatment of Dao "horrible".
The next morning, United CEO Oscar Munoz issued a statement that appeared to downplay the treatment of Dao, referring to the incident as "re-accommodating the customers". Munoz also sent an email to United staff commending the crew's actions for following established procedures and referring to Dao as "disruptive" and "belligerent". This was contradicted by passengers' accounts and video of the incident; for example, Jason Powell asserted that Dao was not belligerent, saying instead, "He was very polite, matter-of-fact."Munoz and United were sharply criticized for their initial statements; United suffered a drop in its stock price. Two days after the incident, Munoz issued an additional statement, apologizing and promising that such an incident would never again occur on a United aircraft. He said, "No one should ever be mistreated this way." In a televised interview, Munoz was asked, "Do you think [Dao] was at fault in any way?" Munoz responded, "No. He can't be. He was a paying passenger sitting on our seat in our aircraft." Munoz's previously planned promotion to become United's chairman was delayed until May 2020 as a result of the incident. Dao reached an "amicable" settlement with United on April 27, 2017, though its terms were not publicly announced.

Incident
On April 9, 2017, four employees of Republic Airways – a United Airlines regional airline – located at the time in Chicago, had been assigned to crew a flight leaving the next day from Louisville. They were originally scheduled to travel to Louisville on Flight 4448 at 2:55 PM, but that plane was experiencing a significant mechanical delay. They were rebooked onto Flight 3411 at 5:21 PM. This was 19 minutes before its scheduled departure time, and the passengers had boarded the plane, an Embraer 170 operating as United Express Flight 3411, which was fully occupied.
Passengers were initially offered $400 in travel vouchers, a hotel stay, and a seat on a flight leaving more than 21 hours later if they would voluntarily give up their seats. With no volunteers, the offer was increased to $800 in vouchers. Just before 5:40 PM, the United Express gate agent announced that four passengers would be selected by computer and involuntarily removed to accommodate the four Republic employees. A United spokesperson later stated that the selection is based on several factors, and that frequent fliers and higher-paying customers are less likely to be chosen. Another spokesman stated that the flight was not overbooked prior to the four employees being assigned to it.Three of the selected passengers, a couple and a woman thought to be David Dao's wife, cooperated with the instruction to leave the plane. The fourth, 69-year-old David Dao – a doctor from Elizabethtown, Kentucky and former folk musician – refused, protesting that he needed to see patients the next day at his clinic. United Airlines staff requested assistance from the Chicago Department of Aviation Security, a department with powers differing from those of the Chicago Police Department; for example, its officers cannot file arrest reports.Dao refused to leave his seat and was dragged screaming from it. In the process, he suffered injuries to his head and mouth when, according to another passenger, aviation security officer James Long threw him against the armrest before dragging him down the aisle by his arms, apparently unconscious. During the altercation, several passengers distressed by the incident voluntarily left the aircraft. Passengers stated that officers laughed as Dao was dragged from the plane. The four United employees then sat in the vacated seats. Shortly afterward, Dao boarded the aircraft again, with blood on his face, repeatedly saying, "I have to go home," and "Just kill me". After he collapsed in a seat, he was removed from the aircraft on a stretcher. The remaining passengers were then directed to exit the plane while the blood was cleaned up. Several passengers recorded the event on video using phone cameras and the videos were widely circulated on social media. Another passenger reported hearing Dao claim that he had been chosen because of his Asian ethnicity. Dao was taken to a hospital with non-life-threatening injuries, including a broken nose, loss of two front teeth, sinus injuries, and "a significant concussion"; the injuries required reconstructive surgery, according to Dao's lawyer.The flight departed at 7:21 p.m., and arrived at Louisville at 9:01 p.m.

Passenger assessments
Several passengers stated that the situation escalated quickly and was inflamed by the demeanor of a United employee. According to passenger Tyler Bridges, "An airline supervisor walked onto the plane and brusquely announced, 'We have United employees that need to fly to Louisville tonight. ... This flight's not leaving until four people get off.' That rubbed some people the wrong way." Passenger John Fuller described the employee's behavior and said, "She was very terse. ... She said, 'Four people need to get off this plane, or we're not going anywhere.'” Passenger Jason Powell corroborated this account and said that he did not understand why the employee had spoken with such a belligerent tone: "The tone immediately turned me off ... She accelerated the situation. It was poor leadership." Powell said, "The disgusting mishandling of the situation included everyone from the rude ticket agent who demanded that this man give up his seat on the flight United overbooked ..."Passenger John Klaassen later said, "after the first offer was made, the United employee left and it escalated ... had they just tried some diplomacy, none of this had to take place ... they were unwilling to negotiate" Passenger Mary Myers faulted the supervisor, saying, "I really put all of this on her shoulders. She could have made a difference. She could have handled it differently. She's the one who started it all." Myers also indicated that Dao had pleaded with the supervisor not to remove him from the flight and explained that as a doctor he could not miss his return flight home. "He said, 'I can’t get off the plane. I have to get home. I'm a doctor. I have to get to the hospital in the morning.'" Myers stated that her response was not appropriate: "She said, 'Well, then I'll just have to call the police and have you escorted off the plane.' In my opinion, I think any good supervisor would never have let the situation escalate to that point. Honestly, I think I blame her for the whole entire occurrence. She didn't need to jump to that level."

Aftermath
On April 11, 2017, the law firms representing Dao, Golan Christie Taglia and Corboy & Demetrio, issued a statement indicating that Dao and his family "wants the world to know that they are very appreciative of the outpouring of prayers, concern and support."The three Chicago Department of Aviation (CDA) officers who responded to the incident were James Long, Mauricio Rodriguez, Jr., and Steven Smith. Their supervisor was Sergeant John Moore. Long had just returned to the job after a suspension for insubordination after having ignored a supervisor's orders to prevent vehicles from driving into a restricted area of the airport. Long was placed on administrative leave soon after the incident with Dao; Rodriguez and Smith were placed on administrative leave on April 12. Moore was placed on administrative leave on April 19. Moore had been disciplined at least seven times from 1999 to 2009 for failing to arrive at work without notifying a supervisor. The Chicago Department of Aviation said that "the incident on United Flight 3411 was not in accordance with our standard operating procedure and the actions of the aviation security officer are obviously not condoned by the Department ..." The aviation police receive more training and higher pay compared to that received by private security guards, but less than that of officers of the Chicago Police Department.
City Inspector General Joseph Ferguson launched an investigation shortly after the incident. The Office of Inspector General (OIG) released its findings on October 17, 2017, establishing that the four officers had violated City of Chicago personnel rules. The report stated:Specifically, the first ASO violated the CDA Use of Force Policy when that ASO escalated a non-threatening situation into a physically violent one by forcefully removing a passenger from the aircraft. The ASO’s use of excessive force caused the passenger to hit his face on an armrest, resulting in the passenger sustaining a concussion, a broken nose, and the loss of two teeth. OIG’s investigation also established that the second ASO made misleading statements in two reports and the third ASO made material omissions in a report, regarding the first ASO’s forceful removal of the passenger from the aircraft. The investigation further established that the Sergeant deliberately removed material facts from the third ASO’s “To/From Report” and approved reports without all essential information. In response to the OIG report, the CDA discharged Long and Moore and issued five-day suspensions to Rodriguez and Smith.

Airport security changes
On June 29, 2017, the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board decertified the Chicago Department of Aviation Police, stating the agency is "in no way" a police agency, merely a security force. The Chicago Police Department was designated as the primary responders to all future airport disturbance calls. The union representing the 300-officer department, Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 73, challenged the downgrade from police to security status in an unfair labor practices complaint.Following a review prompted by the incident, in July 2017 the Chicago Department of Aviation reported that its unsworn, unarmed airport security personnel were not actually police officers under Illinois law. Their uniforms, badges and vehicles had been "improperly" labeled "police" for historical reasons. It promised that the incorrect insignia would be removed within months.

Social media
Video footage from passengers who remained on the aircraft throughout the incident was widely shared and was picked up by mainstream media agencies. One such video was shared 87,000 times and viewed 6.8 million times in less than a day.The victim was initially thought to be Chinese-American, as one of the witnesses told The Washington Post, "He said, more or less, 'I'm being selected because I'm Chinese.'" His daughter, Crystal Dao Pepper, later said in a press conference that her father was Vietnamese-Chinese. The incident drew outrage on mainland Chinese and Vietnamese social media, and became the number-one trending topic on the Chinese microblogging site Weibo, attracting the attention of more than 480 million users. An article in Foreign Policy noted the racial and political reasons for the wide spread of the video throughout the mainland Chinese mediasphere, where heated debates take place over the nature of America's political system and its relations to mainland China, and asserted that the video would serve the ends of the authorities and critics of America in challenging America's cultural sway in mainland China. In Vietnam, there was also bad reaction to the reporting into Dao's past, which was viewed as irrelevant and possibly racist.The incident had taken place shortly after another controversy in which United refused boarding to two teenage girls wearing leggings. There were calls by social media users across the world, especially those in the United States, mainland China and Vietnam, to boycott United Airlines. Customers of the airline posted pictures of their United loyalty or credit cards cut into pieces. Another petition called on the U.S. federal government to launch an investigation into the incident, invoking the Black Lives Matter movement by using the hashtag "#ChineseLivesMatters."

Stock market
Shares of United Continental Holdings (UAL), the parent company of United Airlines, closed at $70.88 on April 7. On April 10, the first trading day after the incident, they rose by 0.9% to close at $71.52. Although UAL shares declined by 1.1% on April 11, they closed at $70.71, only $0.17 or 0.2% less than the April 7 closing price. UAL shares declined and closed at $69.93 on April 12, and closed at $69.07 on April 13, and ultimately declined and closed at $67.75 on April 18.
Research analysts S3 Partners commented on the effect the incident would have on UAL's future financial performance, saying that "consumers might not have much choice but to fly UAL due to airline consolidation, which has reduced competition over most routes. As a result, with passengers having fewer options these days when it comes to carriers, UAL's revenues may not suffer as much as expected unless passengers opt for longer and more expensive flights." Analysts Wolfe Research and Cowen & Co. were also confident of future performance.Investor Warren Buffett, a major investor in airline stocks, said that United made a "terrible mistake," and that public perceptions were influenced by the CEO's initial reaction.

Consumer preference
A poll of 1,900 people conducted three days after the incident suggested that all else being equal, 79% of prospective fliers who had heard of the incident would choose a non–United Airlines flight. 44% would choose a non–United Airlines flight even if it cost US$66 more and took an additional three hours.Despite calls for a boycott, United Airlines reported 39% greater profits over the previous year in the second quarter of 2017, as well as increased sales. Economist John Kwoka, Jr., attributed this to the high level of consolidation of American airlines, with a majority of flights controlled by four corporations—United, Delta, American, and Southwest—making a boycott impractical. Additionally, for many travelers, ticket price is the primary deciding factor when booking flights, outweighing other considerations, such as customer service.

Industry behavior
In August 2017, data from the U.S. Department of Transportation showed that bumped-passenger rates were at their lowest since 1995. The rate "markedly decreased" starting in April 2017 (the same month this incident occurred) from 0.62 per 10,000 passengers, to 0.44 per 10,000 in the second quarter of 2017.

Responses
United Airlines
On April 9, United issued a statement: "Flight 3411 from Chicago to Louisville was overbooked. After our team looked for volunteers, one customer refused to leave the aircraft voluntarily and law enforcement was asked to come to the gate. We apologize for the overbook situation. Further details on the removed customer should be directed to authorities." By April 11, United changed its prior statement, stating that the flight was in fact not overbooked, but sold out, and the four employees who needed the seats were considered "must-ride" passengers who had to travel to another city to work as aircraft crew.United CEO Oscar Munoz stated on April 10: "This is an upsetting event to all of us here at United. I apologize for having to re-accommodate these customers. Our team is moving with a sense of urgency to work with the authorities and conduct our own detailed review of what happened. We are also reaching out to this passenger to talk directly to him and further address and resolve this situation." Munoz's use of the word "re-accommodate" received particular attention and ridicule from social media and commentators. The words "re-accommodate" and "re-accommodated" appear several times in the text of the standard United Airlines Contract of Carriage.Later on April 10, in an e-mail to employees, Munoz praised and defended the crew's actions, while claiming the passenger was "disruptive and belligerent." He stated that "Our employees followed established procedures for dealing with situations like this." This led to an online petition calling for his resignation.In a subsequent public statement released by United on the afternoon of April 11, 2017, Munoz was more conciliatory. His note described the Dao incident as "truly horrific" and expressed an understanding of the "outrage, anger, disappointment" felt by many. He took full responsibility and apologized, adding that "No one should ever be mistreated this way." He promised to conduct a thorough review and release a report by April 30. The public statement ends with "I promise you we will do better."During a television interview on April 12, Munoz announced that, effective immediately, United Airlines would no longer use police in involuntary bumping situations: "We're not going to put a law enforcement official ... [onto a United aircraft] to remove a booked, paid, seated passenger." He apologized to Dao and his family and said, "That is not who our family at United is. You saw us at a bad moment; this can and will never happen again on a United Airlines flight. That is my promise." Asked if Dao was at fault in any way, Munoz hesitated, then replied, "No, he can't be ... no one should be treated that way, period."In response to a signed petition, Munoz said he did not intend to resign.Three days after the incident, United Airlines elected to provide all passengers aboard United Express Flight 3411 compensation equal to the cost of their tickets. An email obtained by CNN stated that this compensation was in the form of a $500 voucher toward future travel on United Airlines. The email also indicated that customers were eligible for the voucher if they "released" the airline from lawsuits. A United spokesperson later indicated that passengers would not be required to agree to those terms. On April 13, 2017, United internally announced a policy change to ensure that flight crews are booked "at least 60 minutes prior to departure." On April 18, Munoz reported that no one would be fired as a result of the incident.On April 21, it was reported that Munoz would not become chairman of the airline, as had been planned, because of the incident. Munoz's employment agreement was amended subsequent to the incident to reflect that he would not be elevated to chairman. In a government filing, United said that the airline was developing a program for 2017 so that compensation was "directly and meaningfully tied to progress in improving the customer experience." In 2019, Munoz announced his impending transfer from United, to become chairman of parent company United Airlines Holdings.United and Dao reached a confidential settlement on April 27. Although the financial terms of the settlement remain confidential, one of the stipulations of the settlement was that Dao could not sue the city of Chicago. At the same time, the airline announced ten policy changes in response to the incident. These included raising the maximum amount of travel vouchers to passengers "bounced" from flights to up to $10,000 and a $1,500 "no questions asked" fee for permanently lost luggage, and the airline promised to reduce overbooking.

Public relations professionals
The handling of the incident by Munoz was described as a "fumbling response" by Bloomberg News, part of a "public-relations disaster" for United. Munoz had been named "Communicator of the Year for 2017" by PRWeek in March 2017. Steve Barrett, editor-in-chief of PRWeek US, later noted: "It's fair to say that if PRWeek was choosing its Communicator of the Year now, we would not be awarding it to Oscar Munoz … In time, the episode and subsequent response will be quoted in textbooks as an example of how not to respond in a crisis." Public relations expert Rupert Younger, director of the Oxford University Centre for Corporate Reputation, called the handling of the situation "a major disappointment." In Younger's view, Munoz should have moved more quickly and been more genuinely apologetic from the start. Former Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs Philip J. Crowley said: "It's hard to think of a case study that went so compellingly wrong so rapidly."

United Master Executive Council
On April 13, 2017, the United Master Executive Council, the United Airlines bargaining unit of the Air Line Pilots Association, a trade union, issued a statement to shift blame from United to Republic Airline, one of the carriers under contract to operate United Express flights, and especially the Chicago Department of Aviation. The statement read in part: "this violent incident should never have happened and was a result of gross excessive force by Chicago Department of Aviation personnel."

Other airlines
Emirates launched an advertising campaign that parodies United Airlines' "Fly the Friendly Skies" slogan and Munoz's previous statements about airlines in the Middle East. Royal Jordanian put up a picture of a no-smoking sign on its Twitter account with the messages, "We would like to remind you that drags on flights are strictly prohibited by passengers and crew," and "We are here to keep you #united. Dragging is strictly prohibited."Delta Air Lines increased the amount of compensation supervisors can offer to displaced passengers from $1,350 to $9,950 with gate agents able to offer $2,000, up from $800. American Airlines also enacted a new policy: passengers who have already boarded will never be removed to seat others. Southwest Airlines announced they will no longer overbook flights.

United States government
Executive branch
The White House's "We the People" webpage received 100,000 petition signatures in one day—exceeding the threshold needed for official review—demanding a government investigation into the incident. White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer commented that "It was an unfortunate incident" and added "when you watch the video, it is troubling to see how that was handled."The United States Department of Transportation (USDOT) said it was reviewing the incident. "While it is legal for airlines to [involuntarily] bump passengers from an oversold flight when there are not enough volunteers, it is the airline's responsibility to determine its own fair boarding priorities," the agency said in a statement. On April 12, the USDOT stated that it was "reviewing the involuntary denied boarding of passenger(s) from United Express flight 3411 to determine whether the airline complied with the oversales rule."New Jersey Governor Chris Christie asked the United States Secretary of Transportation, Elaine Chao, to suspend allowing airlines to overbook passengers.U.S. President Donald Trump criticized United Airlines' response to Dao in an interview with The Wall Street Journal. He said the airline's treatment of their customer was "horrible" and that the airline should have further increased the financial offer to customers to voluntarily leave the plane, instead of choosing to use force. Trump told The Wall Street Journal: "You know, there's a point at which I'm getting off the plane ... seriously. They should have gone up higher. But to just randomly say, 'You're getting off the plane,' that was terrible."On January 13, 2021, the United States Department of Transportation amended its rules, forbidding involuntarily bumping from an overbooked flight after boarding starting on April 21.

Congress
A bipartisan group of senators on the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee described the incident as "disturbing", and wrote to Munoz and the Chicago Department of Aviation. The group sought information about the crew-scheduling mix-up that required passengers to give up their seats, and asked whether United considers bumping a passenger to accommodate employees to be the same as an "oversold" situation. They asked the Chicago Department of Aviation about their security protocols and whether Dao had been passive or threatening during the incident. Both parties were given until April 20, 2017, to respond. United Airlines submitted their response on April 26, 2017.Separately, twenty-one Democratic U.S. Senators wrote to Munoz to express their deep concern, and asked a range of questions about the incident, requesting a response by April 24, 2017.Congressional Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) called for hearings from the House Transportation and Infrastructure (T&I) Committee. Dan Lipinski (D-IL), member of the House Transportation Committee's Aviation subcommittee, called on Congress to make legislative amendments to give passengers more rights and to prevent further similar incidents. Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ) said the incident was disturbing and criticized Munoz's "empty apology."Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) is drafting the "Customers Not Cargo Act", which would ban airlines from involuntarily bumping passengers who are already on the aircraft and seated. He previously said United must do more than "apologize", and called for a full investigation. Separately, congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) stated she intended to introduce legislation to end involuntary bumping of passengers, requiring airlines to increase their offer until a customer voluntarily gives up their seat. On April 26, 2017, Senators Maggie Hassan (D-NH) and Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) introduced a bill which would change how airlines handle their boarding and bumping policies.

Illinois General Assembly
Illinois state Representative Peter Breen has introduced the Airline Passenger Protection Act in the Illinois House of Representatives. The act forbids state or local government authorities from removing passengers that are not dangerous or causing a disturbance in non-emergency situations. It also forbids the state of Illinois from doing business with airlines whose policies allow removal of paying passengers to make room for employees traveling on non-revenue tickets.

Chicago City Council
Chicago City Council's Aviation Committee held hearings starting April 13 to investigate the incident. Committee Chairman Mike Zalewski said the incident had damaged the reputation of Chicago and O'Hare International Airport. Zalewski wanted responses from United, Aviation Commissioner Ginger Evans, and from the union representing aviation police, Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 73.An April 12 statement by the Chicago Department of Aviation offered these comments about their security staff: "While they do have limited authority to make an arrest, Sunday's incident was not within standard operating procedures nor will we tolerate that kind of action. That is why we quickly placed the aviation security officer on leave pending a thorough review of the situation. The action we have taken thus far reflects what we currently know, and as our review continues we will not hesitate to take additional action as appropriate."

Chicago Police Department
Chicago Aviation Security were instructed to remove the word "police" from their uniforms in January 2017, but they disobeyed this instruction. As a result, there was confusion as to what organization had responded to the event, with some thinking that the Chicago Police Department responded. The Chicago Police Department Office of Communications stated that Dr. Dao fell—a statement which contradicts what is seen in both videos. When questioned about this, the Chicago Police Department's chief spokesman Anthony Guglielmi said, "CPD didn't release an official statement on it. We were not involved. Dept. of Aviation has everything you will need." When pressed further about why CPD issued a response about an incident in which they were not involved, Guglielmi said this, "A takeaway for me is to ensure the department's press office is more consistent in referring to appropriate outside agencies for incidents in which CPD is not the acting or involved agency."

Litigation
Dao's personal injury lawyer asked the Cook County Circuit Court for an order requiring United and the city of Chicago to retain all video, cockpit recordings, and other reports from the flight, including personnel files of the Aviation Department officers who pulled Dao from the plane. United and the city of Chicago agreed, forgoing a court hearing.Through his lawyers, Dao described his ordeal as "more horrifying" than his experience of the Fall of Saigon during the Vietnam War.On April 24, Dao's attorney announced that Dao intended to file a lawsuit against United. Three days later, United and Dao reached a confidential settlement.In April 2018, one of the Aviation Department officers, James Long, filed a lawsuit against United Airlines and the Chicago Department of Aviation alleging that he was not properly trained to handle misbehaving passengers, was unfairly fired, and slandered. The lawsuit was dropped in April 2019.After the  Chicago Department of Aviation Police was downgraded to be a security agency, a federal class action lawsuit was filed in 2018 over a perceived loss of employment benefits enjoyed by law enforcement officers by some of the now reclassified security guards. The lawsuit was eventually denied in September 2021, and is undergoing an appeal in the Seventh Circuit appellate courts as of September 2022.

Third-party legal commentary
Early reports and United Airlines initially characterized the incident as a consequence of overbooking, leading some experts to question whether that was the case. John Banzhaf, a professor of law at the George Washington University Law School, states that United was "citing the wrong federal rule to justify its illegal request to force a passenger already boarded and seated to disembark," since the regulation cited only covers denial of boarding, and not removing a passenger after boarding.While United has asserted a right to remove passengers after boarding, none of the reasons for doing so specified in the airline's contract of carriage applied in this situation. One attorney pointedly stated United "had absolutely no right to remove that man from the airplane" and described the incident as "assault and battery."Chicago City Council alderman Michael Zalewski questioned whether the Chicago Airport Police even had the legal authority to enter the aircraft.A partner at Kreindler & Kreindler, a law firm specializing in air disaster litigation, concluded, "United, if they're smart, will quickly and quietly settle the case."

Cultural impact
Comedian Jimmy Kimmel criticized United Airlines and its handling of the incident in a five-minute segment of Jimmy Kimmel Live! that aired on April 10, 2017, and included video of the incident. Kimmel, referring to the word "re-accommodate" used by Munoz, said, "That is such sanitized, say-nothing, take-no-responsibility, corporate B.S. speak."The incident was discussed on numerous other comedy shows, including Conan, Ellen and Saturday Night Live. In an SNL sketch, Jimmy Fallon's character Doug proposes marriage to Cecily Strong's Jen after admitting that he made "one of the biggest mistakes a person can make." Jen replies, "No, Doug! You dragged a man off a plane this week!"The cover of the New Yorker May 22 issue depicted former FBI director James Comey, who had just been fired, being dragged down the aisle of an airplane by former U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions.American actor Will Ferrell mentioned the incident in his May 2017 commencement address to the University of Southern California's graduating class. Referring to his honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree awarded on the same day, he quipped, "The next time I'm flying and they ask if there's a doctor on board, I can now confidently leap to my feet and scream, 'I'm a doctor, what can I do? Yes, no problem, I can absolutely deliver that baby.' Hopefully it will be on United Airlines, in which case I will be immediately be subdued and dragged off the aircraft, which we all know will be recorded on someone's iPhone and put on YouTube."

Similar incidents
A passenger on a United Airlines flight who bought a full-price first-class ticket from Lihue to Los Angeles was told to get off the plane because "they needed the seat for somebody more important." According to the passenger, the gate agent stated "We have a priority list, and you're at the bottom of it." The gate agent then said that he would be arrested and put in handcuffs. The passenger said a fellow passenger warned him that the airline is "really nasty about this stuff" and might call the police. He is considering legal action against United.After paying approximately $1,000 for a seat for her two-year-old child, a woman was forced to hold the child on her lap for over three hours when United Airlines re-sold the child's seat to a standby passenger. The passenger appealed to the flight attendant, who rudely shrugged her shoulders and told her in an aggressive tone that the flight was full. The passenger was afraid to push the issue because of what had happened to Dao. When she flew back to Hawaii, United Airlines upgraded her to business class, provided access to the United lounge at the airport and gave her a lei.A family on a Delta Air Lines flight was removed from an aircraft and threatened with jail time and the loss of custody of their children for not surrendering a seat that they had originally purchased for their teenage son, who was not on the flight, but instead used for their 2-year-old child. After a video recording of the incident went viral, Delta offered an apology and compensation to the family.

2019 interview with Dao
On April 9, 2019, two years after the incident, David Dao was interviewed by ABC News, speaking out for the first time since the incident. Dao claimed that when he watched the video, he "just cried."

See also
List of air rage incidents
"United Breaks Guitars", song about Dave Carroll's struggle with the airline to get compensation for a guitar allegedly damaged during transit on a United flight
Passage 3:
Air Wisconsin
Air Wisconsin Airlines is a regional airline based at Appleton International Airport in the town of Greenville, Wisconsin, near Appleton. Air Wisconsin originally operated as one of the original United Express partners in 1985, and operated then as US Airways Express on behalf of US Airways prior to becoming an American Eagle regional air carrier. Between March 2018 and April 2023, Air Wisconsin operated exclusively as a United Express regional air carrier once again with primary hubs located at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport (ORD) and Washington Dulles International Airport (IAD). This came to an end in April 2023 as the carrier switched to conducting solely American Eagle branded flights, per a new contract with American Airlines.

History
In 1963 investors from the Fox Cities raised $110,000 to start a new airline. The airline was established as an independent commuter air carrier in 1965 and started operations on August 23, 1965, just one day after the brand new Outagamie County Regional Airport was opened using de Havilland Dove commuter aircraft configured with nine passenger seats. It was founded to connect Appleton with Chicago and initially had 17 employees and two de Havilland Dove aircraft. According to the August 23, 1965 Air Wisconsin timetable, the airline was flying one route between Appleton and Chicago–O'Hare with four round trips on weekdays and two round trips on Saturdays and Sundays operated with the British-manufactured Dove twin prop aircraft.By the mid 1970s, Air Wisconsin was flying two small commuter turboprop airliner types, being the de Havilland Canada DHC-6 Twin Otter and Swearingen Metro, and was operating a small hub at Chicago's O'Hare Airport with service primarily to destinations in Indiana, Michigan, and Wisconsin as well as to Minneapolis/Saint Paul from several small cities in Wisconsin.In September 1978 the airline was certified by the Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB) as a regional air carrier (Air Wisconsin previously had commuter air carrier status with the CAB). In October 1978 it had over $10 million in assets. Joining Air Wisconsin in 1965 as traffic manager and eventually becoming president, Preston H. Wilbourne's leadership oversaw Air Wisconsin grow to an airline serving 29 cities in an eleven state area with 32 aircraft boarding over 10,000 passengers daily. Air Wisconsin gained the nicknames "Air Willy" and "Rag Tag" and more recently "Air Wis" and "Air Wisky".By 1985, Air Wisconsin had become a large independent regional air carrier operating British Aerospace BAe 146-200 and British Aircraft Corporation BAC One-Eleven jets as well as de Havilland Canada Dash 7 turboprops with flights as far west as Grand Island, Nebraska, and Minneapolis/Saint Paul, and as far east as Bridgeport and New Haven, Connecticut, with a large connecting hub located at Chicago's O'Hare Airport (ORD). By early 1986, the airline was serving sixteen airports with its British-manufactured jets with flights to Appleton, Bridgeport, Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Chicago–O'Hare, Flint, Michigan, Fort Wayne, Indiana, Grand Island, Green Bay, Wisconsin, Kalamazoo, Michigan, Lincoln, Nebraska, Moline, Illinois/Quad Cities, New Haven, South Bend, Indiana, Toledo, Ohio, Waterloo, Iowa, and Wausau/Stevens Point, Wisconsin, with other flights and destinations in its route system being served with the Canadian-manufactured four engine Dash 7 turboprop.Air Wisconsin pioneered the concept of code sharing on behalf of United Airlines when the carrier began operating as United Express on May 1, 1985. As an independent air carrier prior to its business agreement with United to provide passenger feed, Air Wisconsin rapidly became the nation's largest regional airline in the 1980s. On May 17, 1985, it merged with Mississippi Valley Airlines (MVA) and continued to fly as United Express, operated by Air Wisconsin.
By late 1989 Air Wisconsin was operating United Express code share service from two United hubs: Chicago–O'Hare (ORD) and Washington–Dulles (IAD). According to the Official Airline Guide (OAG) at this time, United Express flights were operated with BAe 146-200 jets and Fokker F27 turboprops nonstop to Chicago–O'Hare from Akron/Canton, Ohio, Appleton, Cedar Rapids, Champaign, Illinois, Fort Wayne, Green Bay, Kalamazoo, La Crosse, Wisconsin, Lansing, Michigan, Lexington, Kentucky, Moline/Quad Cities, Oshkosh, Wisconsin, Peoria, Illinois, Roanoke, Virginia, South Bend, Toledo, and Wausau, and with BAe 146-200 jets and Short 360 turboprops nonstop to Washington Dulles from Charleston, West Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, and Richmond, Virginia, as well as Harrisburg, Reading, and State College, Pennsylvania.
In 1990 Air Wisconsin acquired Denver-based Aspen Airways and was itself bought by United Airlines a year later.
During the 1990s, Air Wisconsin operated British Aerospace (BAe) ATP turboprop aircraft as well as BAe 146-100, BAe 146-200, and BAe 146-300 jet aircraft on United Express services. These were all large aircraft types when compared to other regional aircraft in operation at the time. Air Wisconsin was the only U.S. operator of the BAe ATP turboprop and also the BAe 146–300, which is the largest member of the BAe 146 family of jet aircraft. United Airlines sold Air Wisconsin and the BAe 146 fleet to CJT Holdings in 1993. Air Wisconsin was then renamed Air Wisconsin Airlines Corporation (AWAC) as UAL retained the rights to the Air Wisconsin name and logo. During the ski seasons, Air Wisconsin was operating British Aerospace BAe 146 jet shuttle service as United Express on the former Aspen Airways route between Aspen, Colorado, and Denver with at least fourteen daily nonstop flights in each direction.In February 1998 AWAC acquired the assets of Mountain Air Express including Dornier 328 turboprop aircraft which were used to expand United Express service in the west. In the fall of 2003 AWAC acquired ten Bombardier CRJ regional jet aircraft from bankrupt Midway Airlines and became a feeder for AirTran Airways under the name AirTran JetConnect, but this relationship was discontinued in July 2004. Towards the end of the contract with United Airlines Air Wisconsin was unable to secure a long-term deal or extension to continue providing regional service for UAL. United failed to renew its contract with AWAC, allowing it to expire in April 2005, and the last flight under the United flag operated on April 16, 2006, using the BAe 146.
During 2005 AWAC invested $175 million U.S. into US Airways for their bankruptcy exit financing in exchange for a long-term contract operating as US Airways Express. In 2005 AWAC began operating all of its CRJ-200 regional jets as a US Airways Express carrier with flight crew bases located in Philadelphia, New York LaGuardia, Washington Reagan National, and Norfolk, Virginia. US Airways has since merged with American Airlines and Air Wisconsin operated as an American Eagle regional air carrier via a code sharing agreement with American until March 2018.
On November 20, 2014, it was reported that Air Wisconsin was nearing an agreement with Delta Air Lines to fly as a Delta Connection carrier beginning in January 2015. Under the terms of the deal, 26 CRJ-200 aircraft were to be transferred to Air Wisconsin from Endeavor Air. In January 2015, Air Wisconsin said that negotiations had ended and that it did not want to fly under the Delta Connection brand.In 2016, it was announced that Air Wisconsin would close all of its ground handling operations in all cities served by the air carrier primarily due to the formation of a wholly-owned subsidiary of United called United Ground Express. This would leave only three American Eagle ground handling cities served, which the airline deemed uneconomical.
On March 1, 2017, Air Wisconsin announced a new agreement with United Airlines to once again operate under the United Express banner upon the expiration of the airline's current agreement with American Eagle in 2018. Additionally, the new agreement with United would provide for the creation of a career pathway program whereby Air Wisconsin pilots would be offered the opportunity to move up to United upon meeting its hiring standards.In September 2021, the company announced that they had signed a lease for at least 1 Bombardier CRJ200SF (converted cargo aircraft) set to enter service from December 2021.On 22 August 2022, Air Wisconsin announced a five year contract to operate up to 60 of the American Eagle CRJ-200s, starting in March 2023. These aircraft are based at Chicago-O'Hare, to fill in for the Envoy Air Embraer E145s that will be transferred over to Piedmont Airlines. The airline also plans to utilize some CRJ-700s. This ended their partnership with United Airlines.

Destinations
Air Wisconsin operating as American Eagle serves 53 destinations with nearly 350 flights per day, transporting nearly six million passengers on an annual basis.

Crew domiciles
Operating as American Eagle, Air Wisconsin pilots and flight attendants have crew domiciles at the following locations:
Chicago, Illinois – O'Hare International Airport (ORD)
Philadelphia, PA – Philadelphia International Airport (PHL)

Fleet
The Air Wisconsin fleet comprises the following aircraft (as of June 2023):

Historical fleet
In 2016, the airline retired four CRJ-200 regional jets that had met their structural time limit and sent them to Tupelo Regional Airport (TUP) in Tupelo, Mississippi.
The following aircraft types were formerly operated by Air Wisconsin:

Jet aircraft
BAe 146-100 (via acquisition of Aspen Airways)
BAe 146-200
BAe 146-300 (only U.S. operator of the BAe 146-300)
BAC One-Eleven

Turboprop aircraft
Beechcraft Model 99
British Aerospace ATP
de Havilland Canada Dash 6
de Havilland Canada Dash 7
de Havilland Canada Dash 8-100
de Havilland Canada Dash 8-300
Dornier 328 (via acquisition of Mountain Air Express)
Fokker F27
Short 360 (via merger with Mississippi Valley Airlines)
Short 330 (via merger with Mississippi Valley Airlines)
Swearingen Metro

Piston aircraft
de Havilland Dove

Aircraft maintenance
Air Wisconsin performs CRJ maintenance activities at the following locations:

Appleton, Wisconsin (Appleton International Airport)
Milwaukee, Wisconsin (Milwaukee Mitchell International Airport)
Dayton, Ohio (Dayton International Airport)Air Wisconsin also contracts aircraft maintenance-heavy checks at a facility in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (OKC).
Past heavy check maintenance was conducted in Montreal, Canada, and Hot Springs, Arkansas (HOT).
Air Wisconsin's primary aircraft painting is located in Fort Worth, Texas – Meacham International (FTW).

Incidents and accidents
See also
Air transportation in the United States
List of airports in Wisconsin
Passage 4:
United Express Flight 2415
United Express Flight 2415 was a regularly scheduled flight in the northwest United States from Seattle to Pasco, Washington, operated using a BAe Jetstream 31. Late on Tuesday, December 26, 1989, Flight 2415 crashed while attempting to land at Pasco's Tri-Cities Airport, killing both pilots and all four passengers aboard.

Aircraft, crew, and flight information
North Pacific Airlines, operating as United Express, operated Flight 2415 as a regularly scheduled flight from Seattle to Pasco, with an intermediate stop in Yakima.  
On the night of the accident, Flight 2415 was operated using a BAe Jetstream 31 twin-turboprop airliner, registration number N410UE.: 9  The aircraft was manufactured two years earlier in October 1987, and had accumulated approximately 4,972 flight hours at the time of the accident.: 9   The aircraft was not equipped with a ground proximity warning system: 31  and did not have a cockpit voice recorder or flight data recorder.: 13 The captain was 38-year-old Barry W. Roberts. He had 6,600 flight hours, including 670 hours on the Jetstream. The first officer was 25-year-old Douglas K. McInroe, who had 2,792 flight hours with 213 of them on the Jetstream.: 5–9, 62

Accident
Flight 2415 departed Seattle at 20:45 PST, and arrived at Yakima with no reported mechanical difficulties.: 1  A company station agent at Yakima witnessed First Officer McInroe knocking ice off the wings of the aircraft, with the assistance of another company first officer. The station agent asked Captain Roberts whether he wanted his aircraft deiced, but the captain declined.: 1   The station agent also asked if the captain wanted Flight 2415's tail deiced, since the first officers deicing the wings would be unable to reach the tail surfaces.  Roberts declined this as well.: 1–2  Flight 2415 was the only flight to depart Yakima that afternoon/evening that was not deiced prior to departure.: 2 At 21:59, air traffic controllers at the Yakima tower announced that Yakima airport was closed due to weather conditions.: 2  However, at 22:00, Flight 2415 contacted Yakima ground controllers and were cleared to proceed to Yakima's runway 27 for departure. Ground controllers advised Flight 2415 of "light to moderate mixed icing" between 4,000 and 18,000 feet (1,200 and 5,500 m), which Flight 2415 acknowledged.: 2   At 22:01, Flight 2415 departed Yakima en route to Pasco, and climbed to a cruising altitude of 11,000 feet (3,400 m).: 2–3 At 22:26, Flight 2415 was cleared for an Instrument Landing System (ILS) approach to runway 21R at Pasco's Tri-Cities Airport.: 3  Conversations between Flight 2415 and controllers were normal in the minutes leading up to the crash, and no distress call was made.At 22:30, while Flight 2415 was on final approach, the Pasco tower controller observed Flight 2415 flying "higher than normal" for a final approach, and also descending faster than normal.: 5  The controller watched Flight 2415 descend until it struck the ground 400 feet (120 m) short of runway 21R. The controller alerted emergency response crews, who arrived at the crash site at 22:34;: 5  the aircraft was destroyed, and there were no survivors.: 5

Investigation
The accident was investigated by the National Transportation Safety Board.  Investigators determined that the airplane was flying well above the glideslope for an ILS approach.: 40  From the plane's last recorded position, investigators determined that Flight 2415 would need to follow a 7-degree glidepath in order to descend rapidly enough to reach the runway threshold.: 40  This is more than twice the glidepath angle for an ILS approach and would have required a high descent rate of 2,000 to 3,000 feet (610 to 915 m) per minute.: 40  Investigators also determined that ice had likely built up on the plane's wings during the flight, creating a higher risk of a stall at low speeds.: 40  According to radar data, Flight 2415 had slowed to 110 knots (205 km/h; 125 mph) as it attempted to descend. The combination of an excessively steep descent, low speed, and aircraft icing likely resulted in loss of control of the aircraft.: 40 On November 4, 1991, the NTSB issued its final report on the crash, which contained the following conclusions:: 47 
The National Transportation Safety Board determines that the probable cause of this accident was the flightcrew's decision to continue an unstabilized instrument landing system approach that led to a stall, most likely of the horizontal stabilizer, and loss of control at low altitude. Contributing to the accident was the air traffic controller's improper vectors that positioned the airplane inside the outer marker while it was still well above the glideslope. Contributing to the stall and loss of control was the accumulation of airframe ice that degraded the aerodynamic performance of the airplane.
Passage 5:
Republic Airline
Republic Airways Inc. is a regional airline subsidiary of Republic Airways Holdings that operates service as American Eagle, Delta Connection, and United Express using a fleet of Embraer 170 and Embraer 175 regional jets. It is headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana. Its call sign "Brickyard" is derived from the nickname of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway.

History
In 1999, Republic Airways Holdings incorporated a new subsidiary, "Republic Airline, Inc." but the subsidiary had no activity prior to 2004 and no ability to operate aircraft prior to 2005. In 2004 the holding company activated Republic Airways in reaction to a pilots' suit against American Airlines.
American had awarded the flying of 44-seat regional jets to Chautauqua Airlines, then the main operating subsidiary of Republic Airways Holdings. However, Chautauqua later started to operate 70-seat regional jets on behalf of United Airlines, and this caused American to be in violation of its pilot union scope clause, which prevented an airline from operating on behalf of American if that airline was operating jet aircraft of more than 50 seats, even if such aircraft were operating on behalf of a carrier other than American. To repair the situation, Republic Airways Holdings activated Republic Airline, and upon Part 121 certification in 2005 allowing Republic Airline to operate commercial service. Republic Airways Holdings then transferred the offending 70-seat regional jets from Chautauqua to Republic Airline. American was then no longer in violation of its pilot union scope clause. Republic Airways Holdings paid $6.6 million to the pilot union of American Airlines to settle the issue.US Airways' pilots had a scope clause prohibiting the airline from operating large regional jets such as the Embraer E170. The airline negotiated around this clause by offering flight deck jobs to laid-off US Airways pilots, in a program known as "Jets for Jobs". This agreement created a subsidiary, MidAtlantic Airways. As part of US Airways' bankruptcy restructuring, the 25 Embraer E170s delivered to MidAtlantic were bought by Republic to help US Airways come out of bankruptcy; Republic operates them along with additional newly delivered aircraft.
In 2007, Frontier Airlines signed an 11-year service agreement with Republic Airways. Under the agreement, Republic would operate 17 Embraer E170 aircraft for the Frontier Airlines operation. The first aircraft was placed into service in March 2007, and the last aircraft was expected to be placed into service by December 2008. On April 23, 2008, Republic Airways Holdings (parent of Republic Airline) terminated its service agreement with Frontier Airlines, which entered Chapter 11 bankruptcy in early April 2008. Subsequently, Republic Air Holdings purchased Frontier Airlines in bankruptcy. Frontier-branded Republic Airways E190 aircraft provided regional capacity support. In September 2013, Republic Airways Holdings sold Frontier Airlines. As part of the sale, Republic Airways terminated the Frontier branded E190 from flying.
On February 1, 2008, Republic Airways opened a base at John Glenn Columbus International Airport in Columbus, Ohio.
On September 3, 2008, Republic signed a new 10-year codeshare agreement with Midwest Airlines. The aircraft would be based at Kansas City International Airport beginning October 1, 2008. Twelve aircraft would be placed in service with Midwest. On June 23, 2009, Republic announced it would acquire Midwest Airlines for $31 million.In January 2013, Republic Airways Holdings reached a capacity purchase agreement with American Airlines to operate Embraer E175 airplanes under the American Eagle brand beginning in mid-2013. Republic began service as an American Eagle affiliate on August 1, 2013, from Chicago to New Orleans, Pittsburgh, and Albuquerque.On February 25, 2016, the airline filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. The airline was hit hard because of pilot shortages, but a new contract ratified in October 2015 helped restructure the airline. At the time of filing, Republic Holdings claimed $2.97 billion in liabilities and $3.56 billion in assets. On November 16, 2016, Republic Airways Holdings filed their Plan of Reorganization with intentions to emerge from Chapter 11 during the first quarter of 2017.It was announced that parent company Republic Airways Holdings would merge subsidiaries Shuttle America and Republic Airways into one company, with Republic Airways being chosen as the surviving company. On January 31, 2017, Shuttle America merged with Republic Airways. In December 2018, the operating division was renamed Republic Airways to match its parent company.
As of January 31, 2017, Republic Airways has the largest fleet of Embraer E170 and Embraer E175 aircraft in the world.

Destinations
As of January 2023, Republic operates for American Eagle, Delta Connection, and United Express.

Fleet
Current fleet
As of April 2022, the Republic Airways fleet consists of the following aircraft:

Fleet development
The Embraer E175 made its United States domestic debut when the first aircraft was delivered to Republic Airways in March 2007. Total orders were for 36 aircraft, which were operated in an 80-seat configuration under the US Airways Express brand name.In July 2010, Republic ordered a further 24 Embraer E190 aircraft.In May 2012, Republic Airways agreed to fly the 28 Bombardier Q400s for United Express that bankrupt Pinnacle Airlines planned to return to its lessors. The Q400 fleet was retired in 2017.
Republic Airways Holdings signed a three-year contract in October 2012 with Caesars Entertainment Corporation where its Republic Airways subsidiary would operate five Embraer E190 aircraft to provide more than 1,500 charter flights annually for Caesars. Service began in January 2013. This contract ended in August 2015 and all E190 aircraft were sold or returned to the lease holders.In January 2013, Republic Airways Holdings reached a capacity purchase agreement with American Airlines to operate 47 Embraer E175 airplanes under the American Eagle brand beginning in mid-2013. The regional jets would be deployed out of American's Chicago hub. In addition, Republic would have options to purchase an additional 47 Embraer aircraft beginning in 2015. Republic took first delivery of the E175 jets in July 2013 and service began August 1, 2013, from Chicago to New Orleans, Pittsburgh and Albuquerque. Republic began using Miami as an American Eagle hub in October 2014 and in New York-JFK in May 2015.
In late 2015, it was announced Republic Airways achieved approval from the FAA for Extended Overwater Operations (EOW), which allows Republic to operate up to 162 nautical miles from shore. As of January 31, 2017, only Republic E175 aircraft operating for American Airlines are equipped to operate as an EOW aircraft. American Airlines uses Republic to operate aircraft out of Miami International Airport to various Caribbean and Central American destinations, including the Bahamas, Mexico, Panama, Belize, Honduras, Costa Rica, Turks & Caicos, Cuba, Guadeloupe, and the French West Indies.
In late 2016 it was announced, due to the impending merger with Shuttle America, that the 80-seat Embraer E175s operated for American Eagle (previously US Airways Express) would have the last row of seats removed (4 in total) to conform with Delta's scope clause, which limits all regional jets to a maximum of 76 seats. These aircraft were retrofitted to American's standard Embraer E175 layout.
On January 31, 2017, all existing aircraft operating under the Shuttle America operating certificate were transferred to the Republic Airline Inc. operating certificate, thus ceasing operations for Shuttle America, and completing the merger process of both subsidiaries. The move made Republic the largest operator of Embraer E170 and Embraer E175 aircraft in the world.
On December 20, 2018, Republic Airways announced that it had finalized a firm order for 100 Embraer E175 aircraft, stating that deliveries for the new aircraft would start in the second half of 2020 In October 2019, Republic received the first of 30 E175s to be transferred from Compass Airlines upon the cancellation of their contract with Delta.In September 2021, Republic agreed to sell 11 E170s and 6 E175s to Envoy.

Retired fleet
Incidents
On 9 April 2017, a passenger was forced off of a Republic-operated United Express flight in Chicago bound for Louisville. The passenger was forced off the flight by Department of Aviation officers after he refused to give up his seat to an airline employee. He attempted to run back onto the aircraft, but was forcibly removed. A video posted on social media showing him being injured and dragged off the plane led to a public outcry against United Airlines.
On 21 June 2018, a Republic-owned E170 registered N876RW was damaged by a fire while undergoing maintenance at John Glenn Columbus International Airport. The aircraft was deemed to be damaged beyond economical repair.
On 10 May 2019, a Republic-owned E175 operating Delta Connection flight 5935 was heading towards New York's LaGuardia Airport when a suicidal passenger attempted to open a cabin door in mid-flight, causing the pilots to declare an emergency shortly before landing. The situation was brought under control, after which the plane landed safely and was met by law enforcement at the gate.
On 6 November 2019, a Republic-owned E175 operating American Eagle Flight 4439 returned to Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport after suffering severe controllability issues after takeoff: ATC flight data recorded the crew stating a "trim runaway" and a "stalling situation". The data shows the aircraft rapidly climbing to 15,100 ft (4,600 m) and slowing down to 160 knots (300 km/h) while performing nearly two full right turns.
On June 4, 2022, a Republic Airways flight from Indianapolis to Chicago aborted its takeoff after an odor of smoke was reported in the aircraft. The aircraft was evacuated on a taxiway. No injuries were reported.

See also
Air transportation in the United States
Passage 6:
United Express Flight 5925
United Express Flight 5925, operated by Great Lakes Airlines with a Beechcraft 1900 twin turboprop, was a regularly scheduled flight from Chicago O'Hare International Airport to Quincy, Illinois, with an intermediate stop in Burlington, Iowa. On November 19, 1996, the aircraft collided on landing at Quincy with another Beechcraft, a private King Air, that was taking off from an intersecting runway. The crash was known as the Quincy runway disaster. Fourteen people (twelve on board the 1900 and two on board the King Air) were killed as a result.

Accident
United Express Flight 5925 had departed from Chicago at 15:25, with Captain Kate Gathje (30), First Officer Darren McCombs (24), and ten passengers. After a stop at Burlington, Iowa, the flight proceeded to Quincy. Two aircraft at Quincy were ready for departure when Flight 5925 was on approach. Both aircraft, a Beechcraft King Air and a Piper Cherokee were proceeding to Runway 4. As Quincy is a non-towered airport, all three aircraft were communicating on the Common Traffic Advisory Frequency. On approach, Captain Gathje inquired as to whether the King Air would hold short of the runway, or depart before their arrival. After receiving no response, Gathje called again and received a reply from the Cherokee that they were holding short of Runway 4. However, because of a simultaneous sound emitted by the ground proximity warning system in the 1900's cockpit, only part of the transmission was received by the 1900. As a result,  the United Express crew misunderstood the transmission as an indication that both the King Air and the Cherokee would not take off until after Flight 5925 had cleared the runway.Assuming that both planes were holding short, Flight 5925 landed on Runway 13. However, the King Air had taxied into position on Runway 4 and had begun its takeoff roll when Flight 5925 landed. Both aircraft collided at the intersection of Runways 4 and 13. The aircraft skidded for 110 feet (34 m), coming to rest alongside Runway 13, and caught fire. All 12 aboard the United Express flight survived the initial impact but were trapped inside by a jammed door. Several pilots in the vicinity of the crash came to the scene but were unable to open the doors of the aircraft before both planes were destroyed by fire. All 12 aboard Flight 5925 and both pilots of the King Air, Neal Reinwald (63) and Laura Winkleman Brooks (34), died from smoke inhalation.: 19

Cause
The National Transportation Safety Board determined that the cause of the accident was the King Air pilots' failure to effectively monitor both the common frequency and to scan for traffic. A contributing factor was the Cherokee's transmission at the same time as the United Express transmission. Lack of adequate rescue and firefighting equipment was cited as a factor in the high fatality rate.

In popular culture
The crash was featured in the 15th season of the television documentary series Mayday in an episode titled "Fatal Transmission", which featured interviews with witnesses and accident investigators and a dramatic reenactment of the crash.

See also
Los Angeles runway disaster
Tenerife airport disaster
Linate Airport disaster
Madrid runway disaster
1990 Wayne County Airport runway collision
TWA Flight 427
Air Canada Flight 759