Passage 1:
Miami Gardens, Florida
Miami Gardens is a city in north-central Miami-Dade County, Florida, United States. It is located 16 miles (26 km) north of Downtown Miami with city boundaries that stretch from I-95 and Northeast 2nd Avenue to its east to Northwest 47th and Northwest 57th Avenues to its west, and from the Broward County line to its north to 151st Street to its south. The city's name originated from Florida State Road 860, a major roadway through the area also known as Miami Gardens Drive. 
Miami Gardens had a population of 111,640 as of 2020. It is Florida's most populous city with a majority African American population and also home to the largest percentage of African Americans (66.97 percent) of any city in Florida, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. It is a principal city within the Miami metropolitan area, the nation's ninth largest and world's 65th largest metropolitan area with a population of 6.158 million people as of 2020. 
Miami Gardens is the home of Hard Rock Stadium, a 64,767 capacity multi-purpose stadium that serves as the home field for both the Miami Dolphins of the National Football League and the Miami Hurricanes, the University of Miami's NCAA Division I college football team, which has won five national championships since 1983.

History
In the wake of the construction of I-95 in the late 1960s, many middle- and upper-income African American and West Indian American families migrated from Miami neighborhoods like Liberty City to what became Miami Gardens (also called Carol City, Norland or Norwood) as race-based covenants were outlawed with the Fair Housing Act, and mostly lower income blacks moved into the Liberty City and Little Haiti neighborhoods surrounding Liberty Square and Edison Courts.
Miami Gardens was incorporated on May 13, 2003. The city's neighborhoods of Andover, Bunche Park, Carol City, Lake Lucerne, Norland, Opa-locka North, and Scott Lake were previously unincorporated areas within Miami-Dade County.
In 2007, Mayor Shirley Gibson said that the city would no longer allow any low-income housing developments; many residents blamed the developments for spreading crime and recreational drugs throughout the city. Around that time, the city's tax revenues dropped to the third-lowest in Miami-Dade County.In 2012, Oliver Gilbert, only the second mayor the city has had, proposed forming a community redevelopment agency (CRA). CRAs are formed to remove "slum and blight", to improve the physical environment of the city and to combat the social and economic problems typical of slum areas. CRAs are funded with property tax increases, which funds are used, in part, to stimulate private investment in the rehabilitation of the community.During the 2026 FIFA World Cup, Hard Rock Stadium will host multiple matches during the tournament.

Demographics
The city was incorporated in 2003, but various parts of the city appear as census designated places in the 2000 census and previous censuses. They now make up the neighborhoods of Andover, Bunche Park, Carol City, Lake Lucerne, Norwood, Opa-locka North, and Scott Lake. The United States Census Bureau enumerated that the population of Miami Gardens was 111,640 per the 2020 census.

Hispanic population
2010 Census
In 2010, there were 34,284 housing units of which 6.0% were vacant. As of 2016, the age distribution was 5.6% under the age of 5, 6.7% from 5 to 9, 6.5% from 10 to 14, 15.5% from 15 to 24, 14.6% from 25 to 34, 12.7% 35 to 44, 13.1% 45 to 54, 12.6% 55 to 64, and 12.7% who were 65 years of age or older. The population was 46.9% male and 53.1% female. Families made up 72% of households, while 28% were non-families. The average household size was 3.52 members, and the city covered 20 square miles (52 km2).

Crime rates
According to City Rating, Miami Gardens crime statistics have decreased in the past 13 years. The crimes that have decreased the most are property crimes and violent crimes. The crime rate for Miami Gardens for 2018 is expected to be lower than in 2016. Miami Garden's 2016 violent crime rate was 63.64% higher than the national violent crime rate, and the property crime rate was 30.99% higher than the national property crime rate.In 2016, Miami Gardens' violent crime rate was higher than that in Florida by 50.99%, and the property crime rate was 19.49% higher.In 2016, there were 432 reported cases of aggravated assault, 22 reported cases of arson, 509 reported cases of burglary, 24 cases of forcible rape, 2,743 cases of larceny and theft, 419 reported cases of motor vehicle theft, 22 reported cases of murder and manslaughter, and 265 cases of robbery.The projected 2018 crime data is as follows: 286 reported cases of aggravated assault, 26 reported cases of arson, 435 reported cases of burglary, 7 cases reported of forcible rape, 2,139 cases reported of larceny and theft, 205 cases reported of motor vehicle theft, 18 reported cases of murder and manslaughter, and 102 reported cases of robbery.

Sports facilities
The Calder Race Course opened in 1971.
Miami Gardens is home to the Miami Dolphins, who play in Hard Rock Stadium on land that was part of the Lake Lucerne CDP. This stadium also hosts the annual Orange Bowl college football game, and is the home field for the University of Miami Hurricanes football team.  The Miami Open tennis tournament is held on the grounds of the stadium. The Florida Marlins of Major League Baseball shared Hard Rock Stadium with the Dolphins for almost two decades until, in 2012, they relocated to Miami and changed their name to the Miami Marlins.
In 2022 and 2023, the Miami International Autodrome hosted the Miami Grand Prix for Formula One.

Healthcare
The city of Miami Gardens has several health care clinics and facilities that offer medical care and support to its residents. Although the city has no hospital directly within its limits, Jackson North Medical Center, Concentra Urgent Care, and, Chen Medical Center provide medical services to the residents of Miami Gardens. Supplementing this, several health care clinics and facilities provide medical services that include general medicine, walk-in/urgent care, dental services, gynecology, physical therapy, chiropractor services, laboratory tests, x-rays, sonograms, osteoporosis screening, vaccinations, and health and exercise programs.

Government
Miami Gardens is governed by a seven-member city council. Members include Mayor Oliver Gilbert (since 2012), and six council members, four elected from districts and two elected citywide. The mayor recommends – and the city council hires – the City Manager, City Attorney, and City Clerk.
These are 17 of the many departments for which the City Manager of Miami Gardens creates a budget.

Mayors
Shirley Gibson, 2003–2012
Oliver G. Gilbert III, 2012–2020
Rodney Harris, 2020–Present

Police
The Miami Gardens Police Department is the lead law enforcement agency for the 110,000 residents living within the city's 20 square miles (52 km2). The department operates under a unified command structure with its headquarters located at 1020 NW 163 Drive, Miami Gardens, Florida 33169. The department became operational on Sunday, December 16, 2007 with 159 sworn officers. Since then, the department has grown to 259 members consisting of 201 sworn positions with 58 non-sworn support positions.

Police controversy
In 2013, law enforcement abuses were alleged regarding the Miami Gardens Police Department by several news outlets. The abuses were first uncovered when it became public that a convenience store employee, Earl Sampson was arrested 27 times for trespassing, while working at and around the store at which he was employed.  Video evidence was gathered by the owner of the store, Ali Saleh, showing Miami Garden police involved in clear and repeated misconduct involving his employee, and customers.  According to the Miami Herald's Julie K. Brown:  "The videos show, among other things, cops stopping citizens, questioning them, aggressively searching them and arresting them for trespassing when they have permission to be on the premises".  It appeared Sampson had been arrested in this way due to police quotas, a department culture, and that Sampson was easy to arrest.  Sampson always pleaded guilty so they would let him out almost immediately, with one exception where he pleaded not guilty, and he was jailed for 20 days.  The guilty plea would validate the officers' improper arrest and increment their quota, so he became a continuous target.

Volume of stops
It was reported that, between 2008 and 2013, 99,980 stops occurred in Miami Gardens, involving 56,922 people, over half of the city's population.  In the City of Miami, 3,753 stops occurred during the same period, with four times the population.  Some stops involved children aged 5 to 7, totaling more than 1,000 children.  These numbers were compiled after news regarding Earl Sampson.

Resignation and lawsuits
Following these reports, the police chief resigned. 
Civil rights lawsuits have been filed against the Miami Gardens Police Department by the store owner and others who were illegally detained and/or arrested.
A police officer filed a lawsuit claiming that he had been fired for reporting abuses.

Education
Public schools
Miami-Dade County Public Schools operates area public schools.

Norland Middle School, in the Miami Gardens area, has a magnet program in dance, music, theatre and art, which began in 1985. The young actors Alex R. Hibbert and Jaden Piner, who starred in the Oscar-winning film Moonlight, were trained at this school.

Private schools
The Archdiocese of Miami operates area Catholic schools. Monsignor Edward Pace High School is in the Miami Gardens city limits. The archdiocese formerly operated Saint Monica School in Miami Gardens.

Colleges and universities
St. Thomas University
Florida Memorial University
Sullivan and Cogliano Training Centers

Public libraries
Miami-Dade Public Library System operates the North Dade Regional Library, which opened in September 1979.

Notable people
Denzel Curry, rapper and songwriter
Diamante, professional wrestler known also known as "Angel Rose"
Andre Johnson, retired professional NFL football player for Houston Texans
Trayvon Martin, shooting victim of George Zimmerman
Peter O’Brien, professional baseball player
Jo Marie Payton, actress and singer
Omar Jeffery Pineiro, rapper, songwriter and producer known by his stage name "Smokepurpp"
Lil Pump, rapper and songwriter
Flo Rida, rapper and songwriter
Rick Ross, rapper and songwriter
Earl Sampson, convenience store worker notable for being arrested 288 times in five years

Surrounding areas
Broward County (Miramar)
 Broward County (Miramar)    Broward County (West Park)
Country Club, Miami Lakes    Ives Estates, Ojus, North Miami Beach, Unincorporated Miami-Dade County
  Miami Lakes    Unincorporated Miami-Dade County
  Unincorporated Miami-Dade County, North Miami Beach
Passage 2:
Sport in Miami
The Greater Miami area is home to five major league sports teams — the Miami Dolphins of the National Football League, the Miami Heat of the National Basketball Association, the Miami Marlins of Major League Baseball, the Florida Panthers of the National Hockey League and Inter Miami CF of Major League Soccer.
Miami is also home to the Miami Open for professional tennis, numerous greyhound racing tracks, marinas, jai alai venues, and golf courses. The city streets has hosted professional auto races, the Miami Indy Challenge and later the Grand Prix Americas, whereas the Homestead-Miami Speedway oval located 35 miles (56 km) southwest currently hosts NASCAR national races, and the Miami International Autodrome has hosted the Miami Grand Prix in Formula One since 2022. Miami is also home to Paso Fino horses, where competitions are held at Tropical Park Equestrian Center.

Major league teams
The Miami area is home to five major league sports franchises. Currently, the Miami Heat and the Miami Marlins play their games within Miami's city limits. The Heat play their home games at the FTX Arena in Downtown Miami. The Miami Marlins home ballpark is LoanDepot Park, located in the Little Havana section of the city on the site of the old Orange Bowl stadium.
The city's first entry into the American Football League was the Miami Dolphins, which competed in the fourth AFL league from 1966 to 1969. In 1970 the Dolphins joined the NFL when the AFL–NFL merger occurred. The team made its first Super Bowl appearance in Super Bowl VI, but lost to the Dallas Cowboys. The following year, the Dolphins completed the NFL's only perfect season culminating in a Super Bowl win.  The 1972 Dolphins were the third NFL team to accomplish a perfect regular season, and they went on to win that year's Super Bowl VII, as well as the next year's Super Bowl VIII. Miami also appeared in Super Bowl XVII and Super Bowl XIX, losing both games. The Miami Dolphins play their games at Hard Rock Stadium in suburban Miami Gardens.
The Orange Bowl, a member of the College Football Playoff, hosts their college football bowl game annually at Hard Rock Stadium. The stadium has also hosted the Super Bowl; the Miami metro area has hosted the game a total of eleven times (six Super Bowls at the now Hard Rock Stadium, including most recently Super Bowl LIV and five at the Miami Orange Bowl), more than any other metro area.
The Miami Heat of the National Basketball Association were formed in 1988 as an expansion team. They have won three league championships (in 2006, 2012 and 2013), and seven conference titles.
The Miami Marlins of Major League Baseball began play in the 1993 season. They won the World Series in 1997 and 2003.
The Florida Panthers of the National Hockey League were founded in 1993 as an expansion team. They have made two appearances in the Stanley Cup Finals, in 1996 and 2023. They play in nearby Sunrise at the FLA Live Arena.
Inter Miami CF of Major League Soccer was founded in 2018 as an expansion team. Inter Miami CF will play their first two seasons at the new Inter Miami modular stadium, which was built on the site of the old Lockhart Stadium in Fort Lauderdale. After its first two seasons should construction of the Miami Freedom Park be approved and completed in time the site will move to Miami. Inter Miami has demolished the old Lockhart stadium and has built a new modular stadium and 50,000 square-foot training facility. The site will remain the permanent training complex for the Clubs’ teams, including its youth Academy and Inter Fort Lauderdale CF. The agreement between them and the City of Fort Lauderdale required that their USL affiliate will use the site and not abbreviate the word "Fort."

Other professional teams
College sports
Greater Miami is home to many college sports teams with football and basketball having preeminent status. The most prominent are the University of Miami Hurricanes whose football team plays at Hard Rock Stadium in Miami Gardens and whose men's and women's basketball teams play at Watsco Center on the University of Miami's campus in Coral Gables. The Florida Atlantic University Owls football team plays at FAU Stadium, and its men's basketball team plays at FAU Arena in Boca Raton. The Florida International University Panthers football team plays at FIU Stadium, and its basketball team plays at Ocean Bank Convocation Center in University Park.

Defunct and relocated teams
A number of defunct teams were located in Miami, including:

Basketball: Miami Floridians (ABA), Miami Sol (WNBA), Miami Tropics (ABA).
Ice hockey: Miami Matadors (ECHL), Miami Screaming Eagles (WHA), Miami Manatees (WHA2), Tropical Hockey League.
Soccer: Miami Toros / Ft. Lauderdale Strikers (NASL), Miami Fusion (NPSL)
American football: Miami Seahawks (AAFC), Miami Tropics (SFL), Miami Hooters (Arena Football League).The Miami Fusion, a defunct Major League Soccer team, played at Lockhart Stadium in nearby Broward County. The Miami Kickers, a Women's Premier Soccer League, played at American Heritage School in Plantation, Broward County.
In 1946, the Miami Seahawks played in the All-America Football Conference for one season, 1946, and then folded.
In 1996, Miami acquired the AFL team the Sacramento Attack, which was renamed as the Miami Hooters (due to its association with the Florida-based Hooters restaurant chain), and it played from 1993 to 1995. In 1996, the association with the chain was completed, and the team moved to West Palm Beach and renamed as the Florida Bobcats.

2026 FIFA World Cup
Miami will be one of eleven US host cities for the 2026 FIFA World Cup with matches set to be played at Hard Rock Stadium.

Notes
See also
Miami Women's Rugby Club
Sports in Florida
U.S. cities with teams from four major sports
[[Miami Sports Teams Signed Miami Marlins Miami Dolphins Miami Heat Shirt]]
Passage 3:
Primetime Race Group
The Primetime Race Group is a privateer motorsport team from Hollywood, Florida which currently competes in the American Le Mans Series (ALMS) and the International Motor Sports Association (IMSA) Lites Series, a support series of the ALMS.
The team was founded in 2007 by owner and driver Joel Feinberg. In addition to Feinberg, the team consists of driver Chris Hall and team manager and crew chief Brent O’Neill.
In 2009, the team runs a Dodge Viper Competition Coupe in  the GT2 class of the ALMS series, the only team to feature this vehicle. The team also runs an Élan Motorsport Technologies DP02 in the IMSA Prototype Lites series.

2007 season
The team's debut in the ALMS series was at the 2007 Detroit Sports Car Challenge.  Drivers Joel Feinberg and Chapman Ducote also competed at the Petit Le Mans and the Monterey Sports Car Championships for a total of 3 races during the season.  The Primetime team also competed in the SPEED World Challenge and the IMSA Lites series.  They finished third in the L1 class in 2007.

2008 season
2008 was the team's first full season of racing.  During the 2008 American Le Mans Series season, the team raced with Hankook Tires.  The best result was a 5th-place finish in the GT2 class at the season opening race of 12 Hours of Sebring.  The team finished tied for 10th place in the GT2 standings.

2009 season
For the 2009 season, the team expanded into open wheel racing, entering into the Atlantic Championship series with the acquisition of 2008 championship-winning No. 8 car and the No. 88 car from Brooks Associates Racing.
The team still competes with the Viper in the American Le Mans Series, now using Dunlop Tires, and also in IMSA Lites where Joel won the 2009 L1 drivers championship.
Passage 4:
Hollywood, Florida
Hollywood is a city in southern Broward County, Florida. It is a key suburb of the Miami metropolitan area, which was home to 6.14 million people in 2020. As of the 2020 census, the population was 153,067, making it the third-largest city in Broward County, the fifth-largest city in the Miami metro area, and the 12th-largest city in Florida. The average temperature is between 69 and 83 °F (21 and 28 °C).

History
In 1920, Joseph Young arrived in South Florida to create his own "Dream City in Florida". His vision included the beaches of the Atlantic Ocean stretching westward with man-made lakes, infrastructure, roads, and the Intracoastal Waterway. He wanted to include large parks, schools, churches, and golf courses; these were all industries and activities that were very important to Young's life. After Young spent millions of dollars on the construction of the city, he was elected as the first mayor in 1925. This new town quickly became home to northerners known as "snowbirds", who fled the north during the winter and then escaped the south during the summer to avoid the harsh weather.  By 1960, Hollywood had more than 2,400 hotel units and  12,170 single-family homes. Young bought up thousands of acres of land around 1920, and named his new town "Hollywood by the Sea" to distinguish it from his other real-estate venture, "Hollywood in the Hills", in New York.

The Florida guide, published by the Federal Writers' Project, describes the early development of Hollywood, an early example of a planned community that proliferated in Florida during the real-estate boom of the 1920s:

During the early days of development here, 1,500 trucks and tractors were engaged in clearing land and grading streets; two yacht basins, designed by General George Washington Goethals, chief engineer in the construction of the Panama Canal, were dredged and connected with the Intracostal Waterway. A large power plant was installed, and when the city lights went on for the first time, ships at sea reported that Miami was on fire, and their radio alarms and the red glow in the sky brought people to the rescue from miles around.

Prospective purchasers of land were enticed by free hotel accommodation and entertainment, and "were driven about the city-to-be on trails blazed through palmetto thickets; so desolate and forlorn were some stretches that many women became hysterical, it is said, and a few fainted. Young had a vision of having lakes, golf courses, a luxury beach hotel (Hollywood Beach Hotel, now Hollywood Beach Resort), country clubs, and a main street, Hollywood Boulevard. After the 1926 Miami hurricane, Hollywood was severely damaged; local newspapers reported that Hollywood was second only to Miami in losses from the storm. Following Young's death in 1934, the city encountered other destructive hurricanes, and the stock market crashed with personal financial misfortunes.Hurricane Irma hit Florida in 2017, wreaking widespread damage. Due to the spontaneity of the hurricane, nearly 700 elderly nursing-home residents died. In an investigation following the hurricane, some of the deaths were found to be not actually a result of the hurricane, but the poor conditions to which they were exposed in the aftermath. Four nursing-home staff charged with negligence and counts of manslaughter. Following the damage inflicted by Hurricane Irma in 2017, an initiative called Rebuild Florida was created by the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity to provide aid to citizens affected by the natural disaster. The initial focus of Rebuild Florida was its Housing Repair Program, which offered assistance in rebuilding families' homes that were impacted by Hurricane Irma. The program gave priority to low-income vulnerable residents, such as the disabled, the elderly, and those families with children under five. The success of this program has various results across the city, with hundreds of citizens claiming they were left without help.

Timeline
1921 – Hollywood by the Sea platted on land of Joseph Wesley Young
1923
Hollywood Hotel opens. Later renamed the Park View Hotel when the Hollywood Beach Hotel opens.
1925
Hollywood incorporated
Hollywood Police Department established
Hollywood Boulevard Bridge built (approximate date)
Joseph Wesley Young becomes mayor; C.H. Windham becomes city manager
Joseph Wesley Young House built
1926
Hollywood Beach Hotel in business
September 18: 1926 Miami hurricane demolished city
1928 – Port Everglades opened near Hollywood
1930
Hollywood Hills Inn built
Population: 2,689.
1932 – Riverside Military Academy Hollywood campus established
1935 – Fiesta Tropicale began
1937 – Florida Theatre built
1947 – Hurricanes occur
1948 – Broward County International Airport opened
1950 – Population: 14,351
1952 – Joseph Watson became city manager (until c. 1970)
1953 – Hollywood Memorial Hospital opened
1957
Seminole Tribe of Florida gained official recognition by the federal government, with tribal headquarters located in Hollywood.
McArthur High School opened
1958 – Diplomat Hotel in business
1959 – Seminole Tribe's Okalee Indian Village in business.
1960 – Population: 35,237
1962 – Arrow Drive-In cinema in business
1964 – Home Federal Tower hi-rise built.
1967 – Hollywood West Elks Lodge founded
1970 – Population: 106,873
1971
Pageant of the Unconquered Seminoles held in Hollywood
Topeekeegee Yugnee Park opened
1972 – Broward County Historical Commission established 
1974 – Broward County Library System established.
1975 – Art and Culture Center of Hollywood opened
1981
July 27: Murder of Adam Walsh
"U.S. Supreme Court affirms Tribe's right to high-stakes bingo at Hollywood in Seminole Tribe of Florida vs. Butterworth"
1982 – West Lake Park opened
1983 – Seminole Tribune newspaper begins publication.
1996
Kolb Nature Center opened in West Lake Park
City website online (approximate date)
1997 – New Times Broward-Palm Beach newspaper began publication
2004 – Seminole Tribe of Florida's Seminole Hard Rock Hotel & Casino Hollywood in business
2010 – Population: 140,768
2013 – Frederica Wilson became U.S. representative for Florida's 24th congressional district
2016 – Josh Levy became mayor
2018 - The first hotel in almost 50 years, Circ By Sonder, opens in Downtown Hollywood.
2019 – Hard Rock Live guitar shaped hotel opened, with pool and manmade lake

Geography
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 30.8 square miles (80 km2), of which 3.46 square miles (9 km2) are covered by water (11.23%).Hollywood is in southeastern Broward County, and includes about 5 to 6 miles (8.0 to 9.7 km) of Atlantic Ocean beach, interrupted briefly by a portion deeded to Dania Beach. It is bounded by these municipalities:

Neighborhoods
These neighborhoods and communities are officially recognized by the City of Hollywood:

Climate
Hollywood has a tropical rainforest climate (Köppen climate classification Af), with long, hot, humid, and rainy summers and short, warm, and dry winters.

Demographics
As of 2000, Hollywood had the 75th-highest percentage of Cuban residents in the U.S., at 4.23% of the city's population, and the 65th-highest percentage of Colombian residents in the US, at 2.26% of the city's population (tied with both the town and village of Mount Kisco, New York.) It also had the fifty-seventh highest percentage of Peruvian residents in the US, at 1.05% of the city's population (tied with Locust Valley, New York), and the 20th-highest percentage of Romanian residents in the US, at 1.1% of its population (tied with several other areas in the US).

Economy
Prior to their dissolutions, Commodore Cruise Line and its subsidiary Crown Cruise Line had their headquarters in Hollywood.Aerospace and electronics parts manufacturer HEICO has its headquarters in Hollywood.Since 1991, the Invicta Watch Group, a manufacturer and marketer of timepieces and writing instruments, has had its headquarters in Hollywood, where it also operates its customer-service call center.

Top employers
According to the city's 2019 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, the top employers in the city are:

Tourism
Guided tours along the Intercostal Waterway are common in Hollywood. The waterway, parallel to the Atlantic Ocean, provides both tourists and locals with the exploration of nature and observation of surroundings.
Young Circle is another area surrounded by shops, restaurants, and bars. A Food-Truck Takeover occurs every Monday, during which dozens of local food trucks park and offer a variety of cuisines, including Cuban, Venezuelan, Mediterranean, Mexican, Jamaican, and Peruvian foods, in addition to barbecue, burgers, gourmet grilled cheese, and desserts.

Parks and recreation
Hollywood has about 60 parks, seven golf courses, and sandy beaches.
Hollywood Beach has a broadwalk that extends about 2.5 miles along the Atlantic Ocean. Parking is available on side streets or in parking garages for a fee, and public trolleys run through the day. Restaurants and hotels line the broadwalk, along with a theatre, children's playground, and other attractions, including bicycle-rental shops, ice-cream parlors, souvenir shops, and a farmer's market. The broadwalk is used for walking and jogging, and has a bike lane for bicyclists and rollerbladers.

Government
Mayor
Joseph Wesley Young, circa 1925
Arthur W. Kellner, circa 1935
Lester Boggs, 1943–1947, 1949–1953
Alfred G. Ryll, 1954–1955
William G. Zinkil Sr., 1955–1957, 1959–1967
E. L. McMorrough, c. 1959
David Keating
Mara Giulianti, circa 2002
Peter Bober, circa 2016
Josh Levy, 2016–present

Education
Hollywood has a diverse and broad number of educational institutions throughout the city, including 32 public (and charter) schools with 24 private schools. The public schools are operated by the Broward County Public Schools.

Public schools
Broward County operates 24 public schools, consisting of four high schools, six middle schools, and 14 elementary schools.
The public high schools situated in Hollywood are: Hollywood Hills High School, McArthur High School, South Broward High School, and Sheridan Technical College and High School.
The public middle schools include: Apollo Middle School, Attucks Middle School, Driftwood Middle School, McNicol Middle School, Olsen Middle School and Beachside Montessori Village.The 14 elementary schools comprise:

Public (charter) schools
In addition to these public schools, eight public 'charter' schools operate independently from Broward County. They are: Hollywood Academy of Arts and Science (K–8), New Life Charter Academy, Championship Academy of Distinction at Hollywood K–5, Championship Academy of Distinction, Avant Garde Academy of Broward (K–12), BridgePrep Academy at Hollywood Hills, Ben Gamla Preparatory Academy and Bridge Prep Academy.

Private schools
Hollywood, Florida has an abundance of private schools scattered across the city. These are:

Infrastructure
Transportation
Hollywood is served by Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport, the 22nd busiest airport in the United States. Broward County Transit operates several bus routes that pass through the city of Hollywood, such as the 1 on US 1 (federal highway). It is also served by Tri-Rail stations at Sheridan Street and Hollywood.

Police department
The Hollywood Police Department is an entity within the city government tasked with law enforcement.

Notable people
Davey Allison, former NASCAR driver
Jayne Atkinson, actress, House of Cards
Herbert L. Becker, former magician known as Kardeen, author, businessman
Steve Blake, retired NBA player
Lauren Book, politician
Ethan Bortnick, piano child prodigy
Chris Britton, baseball pitcher, San Diego Padres
Marquise Brown, NFL player
Janice Dickinson, model, author
Joe DiMaggio, iconic professional baseball player, lived and died in Hollywood
Mike Donald, professional golfer
Scotty Emerick, singer-songwriter
Seth Gabel, actor
Josh Gad, actor
Adam Gaynor, former member of Matchbox Twenty
Alan Gelfand, developer of Ollie (skateboarding trick)
Michael Heverly, model
Rosemary Homeister, Jr., jockey
Erasmus James, defensive end in the NFL
Evan Jenne, politician
Victoria Justice, actress, model, singer
Joe Klink, retired MLB pitcher
Veronica Lake, actress, World War II pin-up girl
Bethany Joy Lenz, actress, One Tree Hill
Jeff Marx, composer and lyricist of Broadway musical Avenue Q
Oddibe McDowell, MLB center fielder
Bryant McFadden, cornerback for NFL's Pittsburgh Steelers
Danny McManus, former CFL quarterback; broadcaster for TSN's CFL games
Fred Melamed, actor
Tracy Melchior, actress
Billy Mitchell, videogame player
Michael Mizrachi, professional poker player
Mike Napoli, MLB catcher and first baseman, member of 2013 World Series champion Boston Red Sox
Norman Reedus, actor
Moshe Reuven, music artist
Ian Richards, County Court Judge of Florida's 17th Judicial Circuit
Patti Rizzo, golfer, 1982 LPGA Tour Rookie of the Year
Jon Pernell Roberts, drug trafficker
Latrice Royale, drag entertainer
Jabaal Sheard, defensive end for Super Bowl LI champion New England Patriots
Megan Timpf, Canadian softball player, competitor at 2008 Summer Olympics
Joe Trohman, Fall Out Boy lead guitarist
John Walsh, host of America's Most Wanted
Scott Weinger, actor, writer, producer
Robert Wexler, former member of the U.S. House of Representatives
Lorenzo White, former Houston Oilers running back

Crime and terrorism
In popular culture
The television game show Hollywood Squares taped a week of shows at the historic Diplomat Hotel in 1987 and featured aerial footage shot over Hollywood, Florida.Episode 15 of season six of the HBO crime drama The Sopranos featured scenes shot in the vicinity of the Hollywood Beach Marriott along Carolina Street.The Art and Culture Center of Hollywood is the exterior of the police substation in the now-cancelled TV show The Glades.
The comedy series Big Time in Hollywood, FL is set in Hollywood, Florida.

Sister cities
Hollywood's sister cities are:

See also
Big Time in Hollywood, FL

Notes
Passage 5:
Miami metropolitan area
The Miami metropolitan area (also known as South Florida, SoFlo, the Gold Coast, the Tri-County Area, or the Greater Miami), officially known as the Miami–Fort Lauderdale–Pompano Beach Metropolitan Statistical Area,  is a coastal metropolitan area in the southeastern part of the state of Florida. It is the ninth-largest metropolitan statistical area in the United States, the fifth-largest in the Southern United States, and the largest in the state of Florida. With a population of 6.14 million, it has more people than 31 of the nation's 50 states as of 2022. It comprises the three most populated counties in the state: Miami-Dade County, Broward County, and Palm Beach County.
With 1,279.2 sq mi (3,313 km2) of urban landmass, the Miami metropolitan area also is one of the most populous urban agglomerations in the world. The City of Miami is the financial and cultural core of the metropolis. The metropolitan area includes Miami-Dade, Broward, and Palm Beach Counties, which rank as the first-, second-, and third-most populous counties in Florida. Miami-Dade, with 2,716,940 people in 2019, is the seventh-most populous county in the United States. The metropolitan area's principal cities include Miami, Fort Lauderdale, Pompano Beach, West Palm Beach, Boca Raton, Sunrise, Miami Beach, Deerfield Beach, Pembroke Pines, Kendall, Boynton Beach, Delray Beach, Jupiter, Doral, Palm Beach Gardens, and Coral Gables. The Miami metropolitan area sits within the South Florida region, which includes the Everglades and the Florida Keys.
Because the population of South Florida is largely confined to a strip of land between the Atlantic Ocean and the Everglades, the Miami urbanized area (that is, the area of contiguous urban development) is about 100 miles (160 km) long (north to south), but never more than 20 miles (32 km) wide, and in some areas only 5 miles (8 km) wide (east to west). The Miami metropolitan statistical area is longer than any other urbanized area in the United States except for the New York metropolitan area. It was the eighth most densely populated urbanized area in the United States in the 2000 census.As of the 2000 census, the urbanized area had a land area of 1,116 square miles (2,890 km2), with a population of 4,919,036, for a population density of 4,407.4 per square mile (1,701.7 per km2). Miami and Hialeah, the second-largest city in the metropolitan area, had population densities of more than 10,000/sq mi (more than 3,800/km2).  The Miami Urbanized Area was the fourth-largest urbanized area in the United States in the 2010 census.
The Miami metropolitan area also includes several urban clusters (UCs) as of the 2000 Census, which are not part of the Miami urbanized area. These are the Belle Glade UC, population 24,218, area 20.717 km2 and population density of 3027.6/sq mi; Key Biscayne UC, population 10,513, area 4.924 km2 and population density of 5529.5/sq mi; Redland UC, population 3,936, area 10.586 km2 and population density of 963.0/sq mi; and West Jupiter UC, population 8,998, area 24.737 km2 and population density of 942.1/sq mi.The most notable colleges and universities in the Miami metropolitan area include Florida Atlantic University, Florida International University, Nova Southeastern University, and the University of Miami, as well as community colleges such as Broward College, Miami Dade College, and Palm Beach State College. Some of these institutions, such as Florida International University and Miami Dade College, make up some of the largest institutions of higher learning in the United States.

Definitions
Miami metropolitan area
As of 2023, the Miami metropolitan area is defined by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget as the Miami-Fort Lauderdale-Pompano Beach Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA), with a 2020 population of 6,138,333. The MSA is made up of three "metropolitan divisions" :

Miami-Miami Beach-Kendall Metropolitan Division, coterminous with Miami Dade County (2020 population 2,701,767).
Fort Lauderdale-Pompano Beach-Sunrise Metropolitan Division, coterminous with Broward County (2020 population 1,944,375).
West Palm Beach-Boca Raton-Boynton Beach Metropolitan Division, coterminous with Palm Beach County (2020 population 1,492,191).The MSA is the most populous metropolitan area in the Southeastern United States and has an area of 6,137 sq. mi (15,890 km2).
The original MSA for Miami, as defined by the OMB, included only Dade County (now Miami-Dade County). By 1995, the Miami-Hialeah and Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood-Pompano Beach MSAs had been merged into the Miami-Fort Lauderdale Consolidated MSA, consisting of the Miami Primary MSA (Dade County) and the Fort Lauderdale Primary MSA (Broward County). In 2003, the West Palm Beach-Boca Raton-Boynton Beach MSA was merged with the consolidated MSA to form the Miami-Fort Lauderdale-Miami Beach Metropolitan Statistical Area, consisting of: the Fort Lauderdale-Pompano Beach-Deefield Beach Metropolitan Division (Broward County), the Miami-Miami Beach-Kendall Metropolitan Division (Miami-Dade County), and the West Palm Beach-Boca Raton-Boynton Beach Metropolitan Division (Palm Beach County).

Miami-Port Saint Lucie-Fort Lauderdale Combined Statistical Area
The Census Bureau also defines a wider commercial region based on commuting patterns, the Miami-Port Saint Lucie-Fort Lauderdale Combined Statistical Area (CSA), with a population of 6,887,655 in 2020.
As of 2023, the CSA consists of three component metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs) and one Micropolitan statistical area (μSA):

The Miami-Fort Lauderdale-Pompano Beach MSA (2020 pop. 6,138,333)
The Port Saint Lucie MSA (2020 pop. 486,660), consisting of:
Martin County (2020 pop. 158,431)p. 28
Saint Lucie County (2020 pop. 329,226)p. 28
The Sebastian-Vero Beach MSA, coterminous with Indian River County (2020 pop. 159,788)
The Key West μSA, coterminous with Monroe County (2020 pop. 82,874).When the CSA was defined in 2013, it included the Okeechobee μSA, coterminous with Okeechobee County, but not the Key West μSA. In 2018 the Okeechobee μSA was removed from the CSA and the Key West μSA was added.

Gold Coast
The Miami metropolitan area is frequently named the "Gold Coast" in convention with Florida's other coast regions, including the Space Coast, Treasure Coast, Sun Coast, Nature Coast, Forgotten Coast, Fun Coast, and First Coast. Like several of the others, it seems to have originated at the time the area first saw major growth. One of the best known of Florida's vernacular regions, the name is a reference to the wealth and ritzy tropical lifestyle that characterizes the area.

Climate and geography
Climate
South Florida/Miami metropolitan area has a tropical climate, similar to the climate found in much of the Caribbean. It is the only metropolitan area in the 48 contiguous states that falls under that category. More specifically, it generally has a tropical monsoon climate (Köppen climate classification, Am). The South Florida  metropolis sees most of its rain in the summer (wet season) and is quite dry in the winter (dry season). The wet season, which is hot and humid, lasts from May to October, when daily thunderstorms and passing weak tropical lows bring downpours during the late afternoon. The dry season often starts in late October and runs through late April. During the height of the dry season from February through April, South Florida is often very dry, and often brush fires and water restrictions are an issue. At times cold fronts can make it all the way down to South Florida and provide some modest rainfall in the dry season. The hurricane season largely coincides with the wet season.In addition to its sea-level elevation, coastal location and position near the Tropic of Cancer and the Caribbean, the area owes its warm, humid climate to the Gulf Stream, which moderates climate year-round. A typical summer day does not see temperatures below 75 °F (24 °C). Temperatures in the high 80s to low 90s (30–35 °C) accompanied by high humidity are often relieved by afternoon thunderstorms or a sea breeze that develops off the Atlantic Ocean, which then allow lower temperatures, although conditions still remain very muggy.
During winter, dry air often dominates as dew points are often very low. Average daily high temperatures across South Florida during the winter are around 74–77 °F (23–25 °C). Although daily highs can sometimes reach 82–85 °F (28–29 °C) even in January and February. Daily low temperatures during the winter are generally around 55–63 °F (13–17 °C). Each winter, cold fronts occasionally make their way down to the northern Bahamas and South Florida. As a result, daytime high temperatures in South Florida may only reach around 65 °F (18 °C) or cooler. When this occurs low temperatures can dip into the 40s during the early morning hours before quickly warming-up toward late morning/early afternoon. It is rare for temperatures to drop below 40 °F (4 °C), however, low temperatures at or around 35 °F (2 °C) have occurred some years. South Florida only experiences these cold spells about twice each winter and they typically only last a day or two before temperatures return to the mid 70s. On average South Florida is frost-free, although there can be a light frost in the inland communities about once every decade.
Hurricane season officially runs from June 1 through November 30, although hurricanes can develop outside that period. The most likely time for South Florida to be hit is during the peak of the Cape Verde season, mid-August through the end of September. Due to its location between two major bodies of water known for tropical activity, South Florida is also statistically the most likely major area to be struck by a hurricane in the world, trailed closely by Nassau, Bahamas, and Havana, Cuba. Many hurricanes have affected the metropolis, including Betsy in 1965, Andrew in 1992, Irene in 1999, Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma in 2005, and Irma in 2017. In addition, a tropical depression in October 2000 passed over the city, causing record rainfall and flooding. Locally, the storm is credited as the No Name Storm of 2000, though the depression went on to become Tropical Storm Leslie upon entering the Atlantic Ocean.

Component counties, subregions, and cities
Largest cities
The following is a list of the twenty largest cities in the Miami metropolitan area as ranked by population.

Areas with between 10,000 and 100,000 inhabitants
Areas with fewer than 10,000 inhabitants
Demographics
There is a strong divide between the northern and southern parts of the region in terms of dominant language. In 2010, English was the household language of 73.1% of Palm Beach County residents and 63.4% of Broward County residents but only 28.1% of Miami-Dade County residents. In contrast, 63.8% of Miami-Dade County residents spoke Spanish at home.

Religion
According to a 2014 study by the Pew Research Center, Christianity is the most prevalent religion in the Miami metropolitan area (68%), with 39% professing attendance at a variety of churches that could be considered Protestant and 27% professing Roman Catholic beliefs. Judaism is second (9%), followed by Islam, Buddhism, Hinduism and a variety of other religions have smaller followings; 21% of the population did not identify with any religion.
The Miami area has one of the largest Jewish communities in the United States. 10.2% of the population identified as Jewish in the 2000 Census. According to a 2011 survey of American Judaism, Palm Beach County had the most Jews of any Florida county both in absolute numbers (205,850) and as a percentage of the overall population (15.8%). Broward County came in second place with 170,700 Jewish reidents or 9.8% of the population, and Miami-Dade County came in third with 106,300 or 4.3%.

Housing
Changes in house prices for the area are publicly tracked on a regular basis using the Case–Shiller index; the statistic is published by Standard & Poor's and is also a component of S&P's 10-city composite index of the value of the residential real estate market.
As of 2005, the Miami area had a total of 2.3 million housing units, 13% of which were vacant. Of the total housing units, 52% were in single-unit structures, 45% were in multi-unit structures, and 3% were mobile homes. 25% of the housing units were built since 1990. As of 2019, over 70% of Miami's residents are renters with median rent of $1,355, $180 over the national average.
Households and families: There were 2,338,450 households, The average household size was 2.6 people. Families made up 65% of the households in the Miami area. This figure includes both married-couple families (45%) and other families (20%). Nonfamily households made up 35% of all households in Miami. Most of the nonfamily households were people living alone, but some consisted of people living in households in which no one was related to the householder.
Occupied housing unit characteristics: In 2005, the Miami area had 2.0 million occupied housing units – 1.3 million (66%) owner occupied and 688,000 (34%) renter occupied.
As of 2010, housing costs in the Miami area typically represented 40% of household income, compared to 34% nationwide.Property tax increase: In March 2009, Miami area lawmakers passed a 5–10% hike in property tax millage rates throughout the metropolitan area to fund the construction of new schools and to fund understaffed schools and educational institutions, resulting in an increase in residents' property tax bills beginning in the 2009 tax year.

Politics
Politically, metropolitan Miami is strongly Democratic, like most large metropolitan regions in the United States. Broward County is the second-most heavily Democratic county in the state, behind only Gadsden County, which is much smaller. This contrasts with most of the rest of Florida, whose heavier Southern influence and high population of elderly voters makes it a swing or Republican-leaning state. Miami-Dade County has a relatively high percentage of Republican voters for an urban county, due partially to its Cuban-American population, which leans Republican as a result of its anti-communist views, but Miami-Dade County still remains very Democratic when compared with most of Florida's other counties. Despite being more suburban and affluent, Palm Beach County is reliably Democratic as well and in the 2020 presidential election voted for Democratic candidate Joe Biden by a higher margin than Miami-Dade County did.
In the 2016 presidential election, 62.3% of voters in the Miami metropolitan area voted Democratic. This was the 6th highest of any metro area in the United States. However, in recent years the area has shifted hard to the Republicans, with former president Donald Trump losing the metro area by 16 points in 2020 compared to losing it by 30 in 2016 (Fueled especially by Miami Dade County shifting 22 points to the right between 2016 and 2020), and Governor Ron DeSantis winning the metro area outright in the 2022 gubernatorial election, winning both Miami Dade and Palm Beach Counties (With the former being won by double digits) while losing Broward only by less than 16 points. This may be attributed in part to a broader rightward shift among Hispanic voters in these years.

Government
The metropolitan area is governed by 3 counties. In total there are 107 municipalities or incorporated places in the metropolis. Each one of the municipalities has its own city, town or village government, although there is no distinction between the 3 names. Much of the land in the metropolis is unincorporated, which means it does not belong to any municipality, and  therefore is governed directly by the county it is located in.

Congressional districts
The Miami metropolitan area contains all or part of nine Congressional districts: the 18th, 20th, 21st, 22nd, 23rd, 24th, 25th, 26th, and 27th districts. As of 2017 (the 113th Congress), the Cook Partisan Voting Index listed four as being Republican-leaning: the 18th, 25th, 26th, and 27th, with the 25th being the most Republican-leaning at R+5, and five as being Democratic-leaning: the 20th, 21st, 22nd, 23rd, and 24th, with the 24th being the most Democratic-leaning at D+34, making it the ninth-most Democratic-leaning district in the nation.

Economy
Among those employed in the Miami metropolitan area, 32% were management, professional, and related occupations, 30% were sales and office occupations, 18% were service occupations, 11% were construction, extraction, maintenance and repair occupations, and 9% were production, transportation, and material moving occupations. 81% of the people employed were Private wage and salary workers; 12% were Federal, state, or local government workers; and 7% were self-employed.
The median income of households in the Miami area was $43,091. 78% of the households received earnings and 13% received retirement income other than Social Security. 30% of the households received Social Security. The average income from Social Security was $13. These income sources are not mutually exclusive; that is, some households received income from more than one source.
In 2005, for the employed population 16 years and older, the leading industries in the Miami area were educational services, health care, and social assistance, which accounted for 18%, and Professional, scientific, and management, and administrative and waste management services, which accounted for 13% of the population. 79% of Miami area workers drove to work alone in 2005, 10% carpooled, 4% took public transportation, and 4% used other means. The remaining 3% worked at home. Among those who commuted to work, it took them on average 28.5 minutes to get to work.

Culture
Miami dialect
In  Miami-Dade County a unique dialect, commonly called the Miami dialect, is widely spoken. The dialect developed among second- or third-generation Hispanics, including Cuban-Americans, whose first language was English, though some non-Hispanic white, black, and other races who were born and raised in Miami-Dade tend to adopt it as well. It is based on a fairly standard American accent but with some changes very similar to dialects in the Mid-Atlantic, especially the New York area dialect, Northern New Jersey English, and New York Latino English. Unlike Virginia Piedmont, Coastal Southern American, and Northeast American dialects and Florida Cracker dialect of the Miami accent is rhotic; it also incorporates a rhythm and pronunciation heavily influenced by Spanish in which rhythm is syllable-timed.It is possible to differentiate the Miami accent from a variety of interlanguages spoken by second-language speakers. THE Miami accent does not generally display addition of /ɛ/ before initial consonant clusters with /s/, speakers do not confuse of /dʒ/ with /j/, (e.g., Yale with jail), and /r/ and /rr/ are pronounced as alveolar approximant [ɹ] instead of alveolar tap [ɾ] or alveolar trill [r] in Spanish.The Miami accent is much less common in Broward County and Palm Beach County, where the majority of the population is non-Hispanic.

Area codes
305: Miami-Dade County and the Florida Keys; overlaid by 786
786: Miami-Dade County and the Florida Keys; overlays 305
954: All of Broward County: Fort Lauderdale, Hollywood, Coral Springs, Pompano Beach, overlaid by 754
754: All of Broward County: Fort Lauderdale, Hollywood, Coral Springs, Pompano Beach, overlays with 954
561: All of Palm Beach County: West Palm Beach, Boca Raton, Boynton Beach, Delray Beach, will be overlaid by 728
728: All of Palm Beach County: West Palm Beach, Boca Raton, Boynton Beach, Delray Beach, will overlay with 561

Media
Greater Miami is served by several English-language and two major Spanish-language daily newspapers. The Miami Herald, headquartered in Doral, is Miami's primary newspaper with over a million readers. It also has news bureaus in Broward County, Monroe County, and Nassau, Bahamas. The South Florida Sun-Sentinel circulates primarily in Broward and southern Palm Beach counties and also has a news bureau in Havana, Cuba. The Palm Beach Post serves mainly Palm Beach County, especially the central and northern regions, and the Treasure Coast. The Boca Raton News publishes five days a week and circulates in southern Palm Beach County. El Nuevo Herald, a subsidiary of the Miami Herald, and Diario Las Americas, are Spanish-language daily papers that circulate mainly in Miami-Dade County. La Palma and El Sentinel are weekly Spanish newspapers published by the Palm Beach Post and Sun-Sentinel, respectively, and circulate in the same areas as their English-language counterparts.
There are several university student-run newspapers in the area, including The Miami Hurricane at the University of Miami, University Press at Florida Atlantic University, PantherNOW at Florida International University, and The Current at Nova Southeastern University.
Greater Miami is split into two separate television/radio markets: The Miami-Fort Lauderdale market serves Miami-Dade, Broward and the Florida Keys. The West Palm Beach market serves Palm Beach County and the Treasure Coast region.
Miami-Fort Lauderdale is the 12th largest radio market and the 16th-largest television market in the U.S. television stations serving the Miami-Fort Lauderdale area include WAMI-TV (UniMas), WBFS-TV (MyNetworkTV), WSFL-TV (The CW), WFOR-TV (CBS), WHFT-TV (TBN), WLTV (Univision), WPLG (ABC), WPXM (ION), WSCV (Telemundo), WSVN (FOX), WTVJ (NBC), WLRN-TV (PBS), and WPBT (also PBS), the latter television station being the only channel to serve the entire metropolitan area.
In addition to the Miami-Fort Lauderdale market, West Palm Beach has its own. It is the 49th largest radio market and the 38th-largest television market in the U.S.  Television stations serving the West Palm Beach area include WPTV (NBC), WPEC (CBS), WPBF (ABC),  WFLX (FOX), WTVX (The CW), WXEL (PBS), WTCN (MyNetworkTV), and  WPXP (ION).  The West Palm Beach market shares use of WSCV and WLTV for Telemundo and Univision respectively.   Also, both markets cross over and tend to be available interchangeably between both areas.  In 2015, WPBT and WXEL merged their operations, to form South Florida PBS, although both stations have maintained separate programming schedules and social media platforms, but share the same subchannel lineup.

Education
In Florida, each county is also a school district. Each district is headed by an elected school board. A professional superintendent manages the day-to-day operations of each district, who is appointed by and serves at the pleasure of the school board.
The Miami-Dade County Public School District is currently the 4th-largest public school district in the nation. The School District of Palm Beach County is the 4th-largest in Florida and the 11th-largest in the United States. Broward County Public School District is the 6th-largest in the United States.
The University of Miami is the one of the top-ranked research institutions in the United States, and is the most selective major university in Florida.
As of 2023, Florida International University is ranked the 8th largest public university by enrollment in the United States.
Some colleges and universities in Greater Miami include:

Barry University (private/Catholic)
Broward College (public)
Carlos Albizu University (private)
Chamberlain University (private)
Florida Atlantic University (public)
Florida International University (public)
Florida Memorial University (private/Baptist)
Florida National University (private)
Jersey College (private)
Keiser University (private)
Lynn University (private)
Miami Dade College (public)
Northwood University (private)
Nova Southeastern University (private)
Palm Beach Atlantic University (private/Christian)
Palm Beach State College (public)
St. Thomas University (private/Catholic)
University of Miami (private)In 2005, 82% of people 25 years and over had at least graduated from high school and 28% had a bachelor's degree or higher. Among people 16 to 19 years old, 7% were dropouts; they were not enrolled in school and had not graduated from high school. The total school enrollment in the Miami metro area was 1.4 million in 2005. Nursery school and kindergarten enrollment was 170,000 and elementary or high school enrollment was 879,000. College or graduate school enrollment was 354,000.

Transportation
Roads
The Miami metropolitan area is served by five interstate highways operated by the Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) in conjunction with local agencies. Interstate 95 (I-95) runs north to south along the coast, ending just south of Downtown Miami at South Dixie Highway (US 1). I-75 runs east to west, turning south in western Broward County and connecting suburban north Miami-Dade to Naples on the Southwest Coast via Alligator Alley, which transverses the Florida Everglades before turning north. I-595 connects the Broward coast and Downtown Fort Lauderdale to I-75 and Alligator Alley. In Miami, I-195 and I-395 relay the main I-95 route east to Biscayne Boulevard (US 1) and Miami Beach across Biscayne Bay via the Julia Tuttle and MacArthur causeways.
In greater Miami, the Miami-Dade Expressway Authority and Florida's Turnpike Enterprise (FTE) maintain eight state expressways in conjunction with FDOT. The Airport Expressway (SR 112) and the Dolphin Expressway (SR 836) relay western Miami-Dade suburbs to the eastern urban coast at I-95, and to Miami Beach via  I-195 and I-395 at the Airport and Midtown interchanges. The Gratigny Parkway (SR 924) connects northern Miami suburbs to the southern end of I-75. The Palmetto Expressway (SR 826) is the primary beltway road of urban Miami, relaying I-95 and Florida's Turnpike (SR 91) at the Golden Glades Interchange near northeastern North Miami Beach to the southern inland suburbs of Kendall and Pinecrest. The Don Shula Expressway (SR 874) and the Homestead Extension of Florida's Turnpike (SR 821) form the southernmost end of the beltway, connecting the Palmetto Expressway to the bedroom communities of Homestead and Florida City. The Snapper Creek Expressway (SR 878) relays the Don Shula Expressway to South Dixie Highway (US 1).
The urban bypass expressway in greater Fort Lauderdale is the Sawgrass Expressway (SR 869), connecting the northern Broward County coast at I-95 and Deerfield Beach to I-595 and I-75 at Alligator Alley in Sunrise.
Express lanes on I-95 start in Miami-Dade County and continue into Broward County. With an increased presence of traffic in South Florida, it is projected that express lanes will soon be implemented in southern Palm Beach County.

Major freeways and tollways
Interstate 95
 Interstate 75
 Interstate 195 /  State Road 112 (Airport Expressway)
 Interstate 395 /  State Road 836 (Dolphin Expressway)
 Interstate 595 (Port Everglades Expressway)
 Florida's Turnpike, including Homestead Extension
 State Road 924 (Gratigny Parkway)
 State Road 874 (Don Shula Expressway)
 State Road 878 (Snapper Creek Expressway)
 State Road 869 (Sawgrass Expressway)
 State Road 826 (Palmetto Expressway)

Major airports
The metropolitan area is served by three major commercial airports. These airports combine to make the fourth largest domestic origin and destination market in the United States, after New York City, Los Angeles, and Chicago.
The following smaller general aviation airports are also in the metro area:

Seaports
The metropolis also has four seaports, the largest and most important being the Port of Miami. Others in the area include Port Everglades, Port of Palm Beach and the Miami River Port.  On August 21, 2012, PortMiami and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers signed the Partnership Agreement (PPA) construction agreement that will allow the Deep Dredge project to go out for bid.  The Deep Dredge will deepen the Port's existing channels to minus 50/52 feet to prepare for the Panama Canal expansion, now scheduled for completion in early 2015.  PortMiami's deeper channel will provide ships with an economically efficient, reliable and safe navigational route into the Port. PortMiami will be the only U.S. Port south of Norfolk, Virginia to be at the minus 50 foot depth in sync with the opening of the expanded Canal. Deep Dredge is expected to create more than 30,000 direct, indirect, and induced jobs in Florida and allow the Port to meet its goal to double its cargo traffic over the next decade.

Public transportation
Miami-Dade Transit (MDT) is the largest public transit agency in Florida, operating rapid transit, people movers, and an intercity bus system. Metrorail is Florida's only rapid transit, currently with 23 stations on a 24.4-mile (39.3 km) track. The Downtown Miami people mover, Metromover, operates 20 stations and three lines on a 4.4-mile (7.1 km) track through the Downtown neighborhoods of the Arts & Entertainment District, the Central Business District, and Brickell. Metrobus serves the entirety of Miami-Dade County, also serving Monroe County as far south as Marathon, and Broward County as far north as Downtown Fort Lauderdale. In Broward County, Broward County Transit runs public buses, as does Palm Tran in Palm Beach County. Additionally, the South Florida Regional Transportation Authority operates Tri-Rail, a commuter rail train that connects the three of the primary cities of South Florida (Miami, Fort Lauderdale, and West Palm Beach), and most intermediate points. Brightline provides service to Miami, Aventura, West Palm Beach, Fort Lauderdale, Boca Raton, and Central Florida's Orlando, with talks to expand to Tampa and Jacksonville.

Sports
Professional
The Miami metro area is home to five major league professional sports teams:

The Miami Dolphins of the National Football League play at Hard Rock Stadium in Miami Gardens
The Inter Miami CF of Major League Soccer play at Inter Miami CF Stadium in Fort Lauderdale
The Miami Heat of the National Basketball Association play at Miami-Dade Arena in Downtown Miami
The Miami Marlins of Major League Baseball play at Marlins Park in Little Havana
The Florida Panthers of the National Hockey League play at BB&T Center in Sunrise

College sports
The most prominent college sports program in the Miami metropolitan area are the Miami Hurricanes of the University of Miami in Coral Gables, who compete in Division I of the National Collegiate Athletic Association, the highest level of collegiate athletics. The University of Miami's football team has won five national championships since 1983 and its baseball team has won four national championships since 1982.
Other collegiate sports programs in the metropolitan area include the Florida Atlantic Owls of Florida Atlantic University in Boca Raton, the FIU Panthers of Florida International University in University Park, the Nova Southeastern Sharks of Nova Southeastern University in Davie, and the Barry Buccaneers of Barry University in Miami Shores.

Minor league and other sports
The Miami area is also host to minor league sports teams, including:

The Miami Marlins and St. Louis Cardinals conduct spring training in Jupiter at Roger Dean Stadium.
The Houston Astros and Washington Nationals conduct spring training in West Palm Beach at The Ballpark of the Palm Beaches.
Inter Miami CF will have a reserve team that will play in USL League One.
The Homestead-Miami Speedway oval has hosted NASCAR Cup Series and IndyCar Series events. Temporary street circuits at Museum Park hosted several CART, IMSA GT, and American Le Mans Series races between from 1986 to 1995, as well as a Formula E race in 2015. The Palm Beach International Raceway is a minor road course.

See also
South Florida
United States metropolitan area
Table of United States Metropolitan Statistical Areas
Largest metropolitan areas in the Americas

Notes
Passage 6:
Miami metropolitan area (disambiguation)
The Miami metropolitan area is the metropolitan area centered on Miami, Florida.
The Miami metropolitan area may also refer to:

The Miami, Oklahoma micropolitan area, United States

See also
Miami (disambiguation)
Passage 7:
Tidal flooding
Tidal flooding, also known as sunny day flooding or nuisance flooding, is the temporary inundation of low-lying areas, especially streets, during exceptionally high tide events, such as at full and new moons. The highest tides of the year may be known as the king tide, with the month varying by location. These kinds of floods tend not to be a high risk to property or human safety, but further stress coastal infrastructure in low lying areas.This kind of flooding is becoming more common in cities and other human-occupied coastal areas as sea level rise  associated with climate change and other human-related environmental impacts such as coastal erosion and land subsidence increase the vulnerability of infrastructure. Geographies faced with these issues can utilize coastal management practices to mitigate the effects in some areas, but increasingly these kinds of floods may develop into coastal flooding that requires managed retreat or other more extensive climate change adaptation practices are needed for vulnerable areas.

Effects on infrastructure
Tidal flooding is capable of greatly inhibiting natural gravity-based drainage systems in low-lying areas when it reaches levels that are below visible inundation of the surface, but which are high enough to incapacitate the lower drainage or sewer system. Thus, even normal rainfall or storm surge events can cause greatly amplified flooding effects. One passive solution to intrusion through drainage systems are one way back-flow valves in drainage ways. However, while this may prevent a majority of the tidal intrusion, it also inhibits drainage during exceptionally high tides that shut the valves. In Miami Beach, where resilience work is underway, the pump systems replace insufficient gravity-based systems.

Relation to climate change
Sunny day flooding is often associated with coastal regions, where sea level rise attributed to global warming can send water into the streets on days with elevated high tides. Further, regions with glaciers also experience sunny day flooding as climate change alters the dynamics of glacier meltwater. Abnormally hot temperatures not only swell rivers and creeks directly through accelerated snowmelt, but can burst ice dams and cause water from glacial lakes to swell waterways less predictably.A warming climate causes physical changes to the types of ice on a glacier. As glaciers retreat, there is less firn (water-retaining snow) so that more meltwater runs directly into the watershed over deeper, impervious glacial ice.

Affected geographies
United States
Most of the coastal communities in the Eastern Seaboard of the United States are vulnerable to this kind of flooding as sea level rise increases.Due to changing geography such as subsidence, and poorly planned development, tidal flooding may exist separate from modern nuisance flooding associated with sea level rise and anthropocentric climate change. The widely publicized Holland Island in Maryland for example has disappeared over the years mainly due to subsidence and coastal erosion. In the New Orleans area on the Gulf Coast of Louisiana, land subsidence results in the Grand Isle tide gauge showing an extreme upward sea level trend.

Florida
In Florida, controversy arose when state-level government mandated that the term "nuisance flooding" and other terms be used in place of terms such as sea level rise, climate change and global warming, prompting allegations of climate change denial, specifically against Governor Rick Scott. This amid Florida, specifically South Florida and the Miami metropolitan area being one of the most at risk areas in the world for the potential effects of sea level rise, and where the frequency and severity of tidal flooding events increased in the 21st century. The issue is more bipartisan in South Florida, particularly in places like Miami Beach, where a several hundred million dollar project is underway to install more than 50 pumps and physically raise roads to combat the flooding, mainly along the west side of South Beach, formerly a mangrove wetland where the average elevation is less than one meter (3.3 feet).
In the Miami metropolitan area, where the vast majority of the land is below 10 ft (3.0 m), even a one-foot increase over the average high tide can cause widespread flooding. The 2015 and 2016 king tide event levels reached about 4 feet (1.2 m) MLLW, 3 feet (0.9 m) above mean sea level, or about 2 ft (0.61 m) NAVD88, and nearly the same above MHHW. While the tide range is very small in Miami, averaging about 2 ft (0.61 m), with the greatest range being less than 2 m (6.6 ft), the area is very acute to minute differences down to single inches due to the vast area at low elevation. NOAA tide gauge data for most stations shows current water level graphs relative to a fixed vertical datum, as well as mean sea level trends for some stations. During the king tides, the local Miami area tide gauge at Virginia Key shows levels running at times 1 foot (0.30 m) or more over datum.
Fort Lauderdale has installed over one hundred tidal valves since 2013 to combat flooding. Fort Lauderdale is nicknamed the "Venice of America" due to its roughly 165 miles (266 km) of canals.A recent University of Florida study correlated the increased tidal flooding in south Florida, at least from 2011–2015 to episodic atmospheric conditions. The rate was about 3/4 of an inch (19 mm) per year, versus the global rate of just over a tenth of an inch (3 mm) per year.

See also
Acqua alta, tidal peaks in the northern Adriatic Sea which cause flooding in the Venetian Lagoon