Passage 1:
John Macklin
John Farrell "Big John" Macklin (October 17, 1883 – October 10, 1949) was an American football player, coach of football, basketball, baseball and track and field, and a college athletics administrator. He served as the head football coach at Michigan Agricultural College, now Michigan State University from 1911 to 1915. With a five-year record of 29–5, he has the highest winning percentage of any football coach in Michigan State history. Macklin coached the Michigan State Spartans football team to its first ever victories over Ohio State, Michigan, Wisconsin, and Penn State. He was also the athletic director at Michigan Agricultural and coached the school's basketball, baseball, and track and field teams. Macklin tallied marks of 48–38 as head basketball coach (1910–1916) and 52–27 as head baseball coach (1911–1915).

Biography
Early years
Macklin was born in Worcester, Massachusetts and attended Worcester High School. He played high school football for four years and was also the captain of Worcester's crew. After graduating from Worcester High School, Macklin attended Exeter Academy in Exeter, New Hampshire and then St. Paul's School in Concord, New Hampshire, playing football at each school.

Penn
After completing his preparatory education, Macklin enrolled at the University of Pennsylvania. Macklin grew to be a giant of a man for his time. He was 6 feet, 7 inches tall and weighed 275 pounds. When Macklin arrived at Penn, one account indicates there were no uniforms large enough to fit him: "When the big husky appeared on the gridiron the first thing the coaches did was to send for the athletic outfitter, for there was not a suit on the campus that would encompass his frame." Macklin played two years at the tackle position for Penn's football team. The Chicago Daily Tribune later wrote: "For a big man he was remarkably agile and his tackling on the wings and his quickness in getting through to break up plays was the delight of the coaches."

Coaching career
In 1910, Macklin coached football at a boys' school at Pawling, New York. Macklin's success at Pawling brought him to the attention of Michigan Agricultural College (now Michigan State University), which was in need of a new athletic director and coach. He was hired in January 1911 upon the recommendation of the renowned Penn athletic trainer Mike Murphy. Macklin was the head coach at Michigan State 1911 to 1915 and compiled a record of 29–5. His winning percentage of .853 is the highest in the history of the Michigan State Spartans football program. Macklin's 1913 Michigan State team finished with an undefeated, untied record of 7–0 and outscored opponents by a combined score of 180 to 28. Macklin was the first Michigan State coach to lead the Spartans to football victories over Ohio State (35–20 in 1912), Michigan (12–7 in 1913), Wisconsin (12–7 in 1913), and Penn State (6–3 in 1914). Macklin's 1913 team was also the first racially integrated team in the school's history, as Gideon Smith became the first African-American player for the Spartans.Macklin was also the athletic director and coach of the baseball, men's basketball, and track and field teams. He coached the basketball team from 1910 to 1916 and compiled a 48–38 (.558) record, including a 12–3 record for 1911–12 season. He coached the baseball team from 1911 to 1915, compiling a record of 52–27 (.658).Macklin retired from coaching in March 1916 to enter the coal mining business in Pennsylvania.

Later years and honors
The Associated Press in 1949 called Macklin "the founding father of the big time at Michigan State College." When he was hired in 1911, the school was putting on games for $200. When he left, the school received guarantees of $10,000 for games. As athletic director, he also led the effort to build new athletic buildings and a modern gymnasium. In 1935, Michigan State renamed its football stadium Macklin Field in his honor. At the time, Macklin was a coal mine operator living in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The name was changed to Macklin Stadium in 1948, and in 1957, Macklin's name was dropped and replaced by the current name, Spartan Stadium.Macklin died at his home in the suburbs of Philadelphia at age 65.

Head coaching record
Football
Passage 2:
Don Coleman (offensive tackle)
Don Edwin Coleman (May 4, 1928 – January 30, 2017) was an American football player.  Coleman played high school football at Flint Central High School and college football at Michigan State University.  He was a unanimous All-American in 1951, the first African-American All-American football player at Michigan State.  He was also the first Michigan State player to have his jersey number retired by the school.  In 1968, he also became the first African-American to serve on the coaching staff at Michigan State.  Coleman was elected to the College Football Hall of Fame in 1975.

Early years
Coleman was born in Ponca City, Oklahoma in 1928 and moved with his family to Flint, Michigan before his freshman year in high school.  His father shined shoes at Flint's Durant Hotel, worked as a hotel porter, and worked in the automobile factories.Coleman did not play football until his senior year  at Flint Central High School.  Two of Coleman's older brothers had died in their youth, one from drowning and the other from pneumonia.  Coleman's mother did not want her youngest son to be injured playing football.  Accordingly, Coleman played No.1 trumpet in the high school band and competed in swimming for three years.  When Flint Central had a swim meet with Royal Oak High School, the Royal Oak coach "made it known Coleman would not be allowed to swim because a black swimmer had never been in their pool."  Flint Central swim coach, Bob Richardson, stood behind Coleman and told the Royal Oak coach that, "if Don Coleman couldn't swim, then the rest of the Flint Central team would not swim."   Coleman became the first black swimmer to enter Royal Oak's pool.As a senior in 1947, Coleman's mother finally agreed to allow her son to play football.  In his first year of football, he was selected as an all-state guard and led Flint Central to the state championship.

Michigan State football player
After graduating from Flint Central, Coleman enrolled at Michigan State University, then known as Michigan State College.  He played principally at the tackle position for Biggie Munn's Michigan State Spartans from 1949 to 1951.  At 178 pounds, he was the lightest player on the 1949 Michigan State football team.  Coleman made up for what he lacked in size with quickness and intensity.  Long-time Michigan State sports information director Fred Stabley in 1972 named Coleman as one of the two best players he saw at Michigan State and recalled that, despite his size, Coleman was "so quick and played with such intensity.  He loved to play against big men.  The 250 pounders were his meat."  In 1952, the Chicago Daily Tribune wrote that Coleman "probably is packed with more football per pound than any man in the United States."
Coleman was also Michigan States's first unanimous All-American football player and its first African-American All-American.  Michigan State under Biggie Munn and Duffy Daugherty earned a reputation as one of the leaders in racial integration of football, and Coleman was the first of many great African-American stars to play for the Spartans.  In 1953, a feature story on racial integration of football cited the example of Coleman:"In 1951, for instance, as for two years previously, their watch-charm  tackle, Don Coleman, was one of the world's best football players.  Weighing only 180 pounds, Coleman employed quickness, agility, brains and courage to win unanimous selection as an All-American in 1951.  At Michigan State, he is perpetually nominated as one of the greatest football players of all time."
Interviewed in 1996 about Michigan State's role in integrating the sport, Coleman noted, "We changed the rules, changed the game and changed some attitudes.  What we did at Michigan State helped everyone take a step closer to better understanding those who before that had no prior contact with one another."As a junior in 1950, Coleman played at every position on the left side of the line for Michigan State and was selected as the Midwest lineman of the week following a season-opening win over the Michigan Wolverines.  Michigan coach Bennie Oosterbaan said that Coleman's only rival among Big Ten lineman was Bronko Nagurski.  Oosterbaan added, "Pound for pound, the Big Ten has never seen a better tackler than Don Coleman, who was smart, quick as a cat, and a deadly, fearless tackler."
As a senior year in 1951, Coleman was selected as the Most Valuable Player on the undefeated 1951 Michigan State Spartans football team and received the Governor of Michigan Award.  In presenting Coleman with the award, Michigan Governor Mennen Williams said, "A couple of those tackles I saw you make in the Notre Dame game were enough to convince me."  Coleman was credited with being the key to the Michigan State offense in 1951.  Line coach Duffy Daugherty pointed to a Coleman blocks in the Marquette game as "one of the greatest plays by an offensive lineman that I've ever seen."  According to Daugherty, Coleman was knocked to the ground, but got up, caught and passed the Michigan State ball carrier (Leroy Bolden) and "still made the key block that let him go for 33 yards."  Daugherty later credited Coleman with "changing the concept of offensive football at Michigan State" and added, "He gave me a lesson which made football a winning proposition at the school for ten of the next twelve years."  Daugherty went even further in 1954 with the following words of praise for Coleman:"If you want to pick a player on the basis of how close to perfection he is in whatever position he plays, I'll say Coleman was the greatest."
Coleman was also a talented special teams player.  Against Michigan in 1951, he tackled the Michigan kick returner on the nine yard line on the opening kickoff.  Against Ohio State that same year, he tackled the return man at the seven yard line on the opening kickoff.At the end of the 1951 season, Coleman was selected as a first-team All-American on 13 All-American teams, including teams selected by the Associated Press and United Press.  In choosing him for its All-American team, the Associated Press referred to Coleman as "the catlike tackle."Coleman was also the runner-up to Oklahoma's Jim Weatherall for the Outland Trophy. At the Outland Trophy award ceremony, Coleman met Kentucky football coach Paul "Bear" Bryant.  Bryant, whose Kentucky Wildcats team was segregated at the time, told Coleman, "You can play on my team anytime."Coleman was also selected to play in three post-season honor games, including the East-West Shrine Game, the Hula Bowl and the College All-Star Game.  In an interview with the Chicago Daily Tribune prior to the College All-Star Game in August 1952, Coleman emphasized his pride in being an All-American both athletically and scholastically.  He noted, "I think it's wonderful that football gave me a college education."In February 1953, an investigation by the Big Ten Conference revealed that a Michigan State booster organization known as the "Spartan Foundation" had either given or loaned a total of $3,183 to ten players on the 1951 football team, including Coleman.  As a result of the finding, the Conference placed Michigan State on probation for one year.In 1956, the Associated Press reported that the No. 7 position on the short side of the Michigan State line was still being called "The Coleman Tackle."  Starting with Coleman, Michigan State played only one lineman on the short side between the center and end positions.  With Coleman on the short side, "with his speed and ability to knock down a couple of men on any given play," Michigan State placed an emphasis on plays developing from the short side.  One of the Michigan State coaches said, "Coleman taught us things about playing tackle we never thought could be done."

Professional football and military service
Coleman was drafted by the Chicago Cardinals in the eighth round (88th overall pick) of the 1952 NFL Draft.  Coleman initially "turned down all offers" from the Cardinals, saying that he felt he was too small at 185 pounds to make much of a showing in professional football.  In August 1952, Coleman noted that any thought he may have had of playing for the Cardinals vanished when he was drafted into the U.S. Army.  He was required to report to Fort Lee, Virginia, after appearing in the College All-Star Game in August 1952.  Coleman served for two years in the U.S. Army, including one year in Korea.After being discharged from the Army, Coleman signed with the Cardinals and reported to training camp in August 1954.  He appeared in the Cardinals' starting lineup for an exhibition game against the Green Bay Packers at Minneapolis.  On September 1, 1954, the Cardinals traded Coleman to the Green Bay Packers for defensive halfback Marvin Johnson.  Coleman chose not to play for the Packers and instead returned to Flint, Michigan as a school teacher.  Interviewed in 2007, Coleman expressed no regrets at passing on the opportunity: "I haven't regretted anything I've done, including saying no to the Green Bay Packers.  Giving up football gave me a chance to get started working with communities. I hope I've been a Jackie Robinson on a smaller scale. I always wanted to set an example and do the right thing. And nothing feels better than when someone says, 'I always wanted to be a Don Coleman.'"

Teacher
Following his retirement from football, Coleman became a teacher at Flint Central High School.  He was the first African-American teacher at Flint Central, and eventually became the position of dean of students at the school.

Michigan State coach and administrator
In April 1968, Coleman left his position as a school principal in Flint to join Duffy Daugherty's coaching staff as an assistant coach.  He was the first African-American on Michigan State's coaching staff.  That same month, a group of African-American athletes at Michigan State had announced plans to boycott all sports at the university in protest against the lack of African-Americans in coaching, counseling and administration positions.  According to a report in the Washington Afro-American, Michigan State was forced to leave its "lily-white hiring" by the "quiet but firm demands of a militant, forward looking student organization.  Coleman resigned his coaching position at Michigan State in January 1969 and accepted a new position in the school's residence hall program.  At the time of his resignation, Coleman said, "Frankly, I found football coaching was not for me ... During the years I had been out of football, the game had changed so drastically that I feel lost."  After his resignation from the coaching staff, Coleman held ten different assignments at Michigan State, including assistant dean of the graduate school, counselor and director of minority comprehensive support programs at the Michigan State College of Osteopathic Medicine, and professor emeritus.

Health and family
In November 1992, Coleman underwent quadruple bypass surgery. While recovering from the surgery, Coleman suffered a heart attack on Christmas Day 1992.  After the heart attack, Coleman worked to maintain his cardiovascular health.  Eighteen years after suffering the heart attack, Coleman, at age 81, told an interviewer, "Since then, my cardiovascular experience has gone well."Coleman had been married to his wife, Geraldine, for more than 50 years.  They had a daughter, Stephanie. Coleman died on January 30, 2017, at age 88.

Honors and awards
Coleman was the first Michigan State football player to have his number retired.  On December 14, 1951, Biggie Munn announced that Coleman's No. 78 would never again be used on a Spartan uniform.  An executive from General Motors presented Coleman with a check for $500 on behalf of the people of Flint, Michigan.Coleman has also received numerous other honors and awards, including the following:

Coleman was one of the charter members of the Flint Hall of Fame.
In January 1970, Coleman was named to the All-Time Michigan State football team based on ballots collected by the Michigan State Alumni Magazine and Michigan State News.  He was also named as the best all-time interior lineman in Michigan State history.
In January 1971, Coleman was named to the all-time Hula Bowl team and was named as the outstanding college lineman in the 25-year history of the Hula Bowl.
In February 1975, Coleman was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame.  At the time of his induction, Coleman was working as a counselor and director of minority comprehensive support programs in the MSU College of Osteopathic Medicine.  On learning of the honor, Coleman said, "This is the greatest honor I've ever received."
In 1992, Coleman was a charter inductee into the Michigan State Hall of Fame.
In December 1996, Coleman was selected by the Michigan Hall of Fame as the recipient of its second annual Legends Award.
Passage 3:
2006 Michigan State Spartans football team
The 2006 Michigan State Spartans football team represented Michigan State University in the 2006 NCAA Division I FBS football season. Michigan State competed as a member of the Big Ten Conference, and played their home games at Spartan Stadium in East Lansing, Michigan. The Spartans were led by fourth-year head coach John L. Smith. Smith had compiled a combined 18–18 record in his previous seasons at Michigan State, and he was fired after the 2006 season in which the team finished 4–8. The Spartans did, however, set the record for the greatest comeback from a deficit in college football history.

Season recap
Michigan State teams during Smith's tenure were "known for their late season collapses". The Spartans started the 2006 season with a 3–0 record with victories over Idaho, Eastern Michigan, and Pittsburgh. The following week, Michigan State led Notre Dame, 37–21, in the third quarter, but surrendered 19 points to lose the game. The Spartans then lost all but one game on the remainder of their schedule.On October 21, Michigan State traveled to Evanston, Illinois to face Northwestern. By the third quarter, Northwestern had extended its lead to a commanding 38–3. Michigan State gained momentum in the fourth quarter when Devin Thomas blocked a Northwestern punt, which was then returned for a touchdown by Ashton Henderson. Northwestern was forced to punt twice more and Michigan State capitalized on each possession with a touchdown, which tied the game, 38–38. Placekicker Brett Swenson made good the game-winning field goal with 0:13 remaining to play, and Michigan State won the greatest comeback in college football history.After the record-setting victory, it appeared that Smith's job was temporarily secured, but the administration fired him shortly after a loss to Indiana the following week. The Spartans ended the season with four consecutive losses to finish with a 4–8 overall record and 1–7 against Big Ten opponents. In November, Mark Dantonio was hired as the replacement head coach.

Schedule
Game summaries
Northwestern
Coaching staff
John L. Smith – Head Coach
Blaine Bennett – Assistant head coach/wide receivers coach
Dave Baldwin – Offensive coordinator/Tight end coach
Dan Enos – Quarterbacks coach
Ben Sirmans – Running backs coach/special teams coordinator
Jeff Stoutland – Offensive line coach
Chris Smeland – Defensive coordinator/safeties
Derrick Jackson – Defensive line coach
Mike Cox – Linebackers coach/recruiting coordinator
Chuck Driesbach – Defensive backs coach

2007 NFL Draft
The following players were selected in the 2007 NFL Draft.
Passage 4:
Oklahoma Sooners
The Oklahoma Sooners are the athletic teams that represent the University of Oklahoma, located in Norman. The 19 men's and women's varsity teams are called the "Sooners", a reference to a nickname given to the early participants in the Land Run of 1889, which initially opened the Unassigned Lands in the future state of Oklahoma to non-native settlement. The university's athletic teams compete in the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA)'s Division I in the Big 12 Conference. The university's current athletic director is Joe Castiglione.
The Sooners have won 43 team national championships.  In 2002, the University of Oklahoma was ranked as the third best college sports program in America by Sports Illustrated.

Sports sponsored
The University of Oklahoma was a charter member of the Southwest Athletic Conference (SWC) during its formation in 1914. Five years later, in 1919, OU left the SWC and joined the Missouri Valley Intercollegiate Athletic Association. In 1928, this conference split, and OU remained aligned with the teams that formed the Big Six Conference. Over the next 31 years, more schools were added and the conference underwent several name changes, incrementing the number each time up to the Big Eight Conference where it remained until 1996. Four Texas schools joined with the members of Big Eight to form the current Big 12 Conference.
When combined with Blake Griffin's John Wooden Award and Sam Bradford's Heisman Trophy, Oklahoma became the second school to have a top winner in both basketball and football in the same year (in 1968, Gary Beban won the Heisman Trophy and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar won the USBWA "Player of the Year" award for UCLA).

Football
The Sooners have been participating in college football since 1895. Calling Gaylord Family Oklahoma Memorial Stadium at Owen Field home, the team has won numerous bowl games, 50 conference championships (including every Big Seven championship awarded), and seven Associated Press National Championships, making the Sooners football program the most decorated in the Big 12. Oklahoma has scored the most points in Division I-A football history despite the fact they have played over 60 fewer games than the second place school on that list. OU also has the highest winning percentage of any team since the start of the AP poll in 1936.The Sooners possess 7 national championships in football, with 1950, 1955, 1956, 1974, 1975, 1985, and 2000 seasons featuring the top team in the Associated Press final poll, and the 2000 Bowl Championship Series National Championship as well. This number is 3rd only to the Alabama Crimson Tide (12) and the Notre Dame Fighting Irish (8) for the most AP titles of any Division I college football team after the end of World War II (which is commonly used as the division between eras in college football).In addition to these seven acknowledged national championships there are also ten additional years in which the NCAA's official record book lists other selections (mostly by math rating systems) of the Sooners as national champions, with the first four years in retrospect: 1915, 1949, 1953, 1957, 1967, 1973, 1978, 1980, 1986, 2003. In general, math formula rankings are not recognized as national championships. The University of Oklahoma does not acknowledge these additional "championships", as they were not awarded by the Associated Press, United Press International (UPI), USA Today Coaches Poll, or the Bowl Championship Series (BCS).

Individual success is also a major part of Oklahoma football; seven Heisman Trophy winners (Billy Vessels, Steve Owens, Billy Sims, Jason White, Sam Bradford Baker Mayfield, and Kyler Murray) are surrounded by many other award winners, including NFL MVP Award winner Adrian Peterson, Joe Washington, Brian Bosworth, Tony Casillas, Greg Pruitt, Josh Heupel, Jerry Tubbs, Rocky Calmus, Granville Liggins, Teddy Lehman, Lee Roy Selmon, Roy Williams, Tommy McDonald, Mark Clayton, Tommie Harris, J. C. Watts, Keith Jackson, and Jammal Brown. More than a dozen Sooner players have been inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame. Oklahoma has more Butkus award winners than any other school.

Coaches Bennie Owen, Bud Wilkinson, Barry Switzer and Bob Stoops have passed through the game-day tunnel for the Sooners, each on his way to the College Football Hall of Fame. Owen was the first highly successful coach at OU and was a major advocate of the forward pass, which at the turn of the century was not popular. The playing surface at Oklahoma's Gaylord Family Oklahoma Memorial Stadium is popularly known as Owen Field in honor of his long tenure and devotion to the university. Wilkinson left many imprints on the game, such as the 5–2 defense with five linemen and two linebackers; the perfection of the Split-T, an early option offense; three national championships; and his teams set the NCAA Division 1 record for consecutive wins at 47 (started October 10, 1953, vs. Texas and ended in 1957 with a loss to Notre Dame 7–0). Switzer won three national championships (the National Championship of 1975 is highly controversial; Arizona State went 12–0 that season while Oklahoma was 11–1) and forged arguably the fiercest rushing offense ever, the Oklahoma wishbone formation, throughout the 1970s and 1980s. Though the end of Switzer's tenure at Oklahoma was marked by controversy and poor player behavior, he is generally well regarded by both his past players and Sooner fans. During his 16 years as the Sooners' head coach, Switzer led his team to 12 conference championships and never lost more than two games in a row. His winning percentage of .837 stands as the fourth-highest in the history of 1-A football. Other Hall of Fame coaches whose tenure included stints at the University of Oklahoma are Lawrence "Biff" Jones and Jim Tatum.

Baseball
The Oklahoma Baseball tradition is long, proud and storied, with two National Championships in 1951 and 1994, along with numerous All-Americans. Their home field is L. Dale Mitchell Baseball Park, named after famed player Dale Mitchell. The current coach is Skip Johnson. The baseball program was a source of recent controversy when the head coach, Larry Cochell, resigned after making racially insensitive remarks about one of the players on the team.
During the 2005–2006 season, the Sooners were given a home regional at L. Dale Mitchell Park and were named the No. 1 seed. They beat the University of Houston, Texas Christian University, and Wichita State University to win the regional and advanced to a Super Regional where they were defeated by Rice University in a best-of-three series. Oregon State University went on to win the College World Series that year.
Prior to 2006, the Sooners hosted regionals at minor league parks in Oklahoma City, first All Sports Stadium and then AT&T Bricktown Ballpark. Scheduling conflicts with the Oklahoma Redhawks, the Class AAA affiliate of the Houston Astros, led OU to bid for future regionals at its on-campus stadium.

Men's basketball
The men's basketball team is highly successful and rose to national prominence since the early 80s with head coach Billy Tubbs and three time All-American power forward Wayman Tisdale. It currently plays in the Lloyd Noble Center, which came to be known as the house Alvan Adams built and Tisdale filled. While the team has never won a national championship, it ranks second in most tournament wins without a championship behind Illinois. The team played in the 1988 national championship game but lost to Kansas, despite having beaten the Jayhawks twice earlier in the season. The program has won a combined twenty regular-season and tournament conference championships.
The Sooners headed into the 2005–06 season ranked No. 5 in the AP preseason poll, led by Taj Gray, Kevin Bookout, Terrell Everett, and David Godbold, but had a disappointing early season. After the emergence of Michael Neal as a potential star, the Sooners salvaged a No. 3 seed in the Big 12 Conference Tournament but lost in the first round of the NCAA Tournament.
On March 29, 2006, Kelvin Sampson left the University of Oklahoma to become the head basketball coach at Indiana University. 13 days later, on April 11, 2006, Oklahoma Athletic Director Joe Castiglione named Jeff Capel III the new head coach. Capel encountered trouble in his first few months as several players who had been recruited by Sampson backed out of their commitments. Also, under Sampson's watch, Oklahoma was placed under a three-year investigation by the NCAA for recruiting violations. At the end of their investigation, the NCAA issued a report citing more than 550 illegal calls made by Sampson and his staff to 17 different recruits. The NCAA barred Sampson from recruiting off campus and making phone calls for one year, ending May 24, 2007. The Sooners looked to continue a streak of 12 consecutive postseason tournament appearances in 2006–2007, but were disappointed when they did not receive a bid for either the NCAA Tournament or the NIT.
In the 2009 NBA draft, the Sooners produced the No. 1 overall draft selection Blake Griffin.

Women's basketball
OU women's basketball began during the 1974–75 academic year. It wasn't until 1996 when OU hired local high school basketball coach, Sherri Coale, that the team became something Sooners would be proud of. At one time the team drew an average of 65 people per game, now the Sooners are one of the nation's leaders in attendance. In 2002, Oklahoma advanced to the National Title game before losing to the Connecticut Huskies.

Men's golf
The men's golf team has won 14 conference championships:

Big Eight Conference (12): 1935, 1938, 1941, 1946–48, 1951–52, 1955–57, 1992 (co-champions in 1947 and 1955)
Big 12 Conference (2): 2006, 2018The Sooners won the NCAA Championship in 1989 and 2017. OU has also crowned two individual national champions: Walter Emery in 1933 and Jim Vickers in 1952.
Several Sooners have had successful amateur and professional careers after college: Charles Coe (1949 and 1958 U.S. Amateur winner), Glen Day (one PGA Tour win), Todd Hamilton (two PGA Tour wins including 2004 Open Championship), Anthony Kim (three PGA Tour wins), Andrew Magee (four PGA Tour wins), Craig Perks (one PGA Tour win), Greg Turner (four European Tour wins), Grant Waite (one PGA Tour win) and Abraham Ancer (winner of 2018 Emirates Australian Open).

Men's gymnastics
The men's gymnastics program at OU is headed by coach Mark Williams. It has won twelve NCAA Men's Gymnastics Championships, including five in a span of seven years in 2002, 2003, 2005, 2006 and 2008 (they finished second behind Penn State in 2004 and 2007). They won the 2006 title with very little experience on the team as 50% of the members were freshmen and just 21% were upperclassmen (seven freshmen, four sophomores, one junior, and two seniors). Teams from OU also won national championships in 1977, 1978, 1991, and back to back to back championships in 2015, 2016 and 2017. In 2015, the Sooners broke the NCAA scoring record in a duel meet against Michigan scoring 456.4 points and then broke their own record two weeks later against Illinois scoring 457.3 points.
Gymnastics began at the school in 1902. The program folded in 1917 when the original coach left. The program was revived in 1965 with the new coach, Russ Porterfield having to beg students to join the squad. Within 6 years, OU had its first winning season. OU's next coach, Paul Ziert, turned the program into one of national prominence. He led OU to two national championships in 1977 and 1978. One of Ziert's athletes, Greg Buwick, would replace him as head coach in 1980 and would lead the team to its third national title in 1991. Buwick's assistant of 12 years, Mark Williams, took over the head coaching position in 2000 and has led the Sooners to six national championships, thirteen conference titles, several individual champions, and even more All-Americans. OU has produced more Nissen Award winners than any other university and is the only school to have back-to-back Nissen Award winners.

Women's gymnastics
The women's gymnastics program is headed by K. J. Kindler. The Sooners have won 14 Big 12 conference titles, 8 regional championships, and five national championship titles (2014, a co-championship with Florida and in 2016, 2017, 2019 and 2022). The Sooners have also won seven individual titles in their history, with Kelly Garrison (all-around in 1987; all-around, bars and beam in 1988), Taylor Spears (beam in 2014), Nicole Lehrmann (bars in 2017), and Maggie Nichols (bars in 2017) claiming honors.

Women's rowing
On May 10, 2007, the University announced the addition of women's rowing to the intercollegiate athletics program started by well-respected rower Candie Garrett. The University hired head coach Leeanne Crain in the spring of 2008. Assistant Coaches Kris Muhl and Andrew Derrick followed Crain from the University of Central Florida to jumpstart OU's program. Muhl took a head coaching position at Jacksonville University during summer 2009. Former UVA rower and Alabama Novice coach Marina Traub was hired as the varsity assistant coach in Fall 2009.The University of Oklahoma women's rowing team practices in the Oklahoma City River (formerly the Canadian River), located in the Bricktown area of Oklahoma City. The river was designated as a U.S. Olympic Training Center for the sports of kayaking, canoeing, and rowing on July 28, 2009. The University's boathouse was completed in 2011.

Women's soccer
The women's soccer team plays in the Big 12 Conference. Their home ground is John Crain Field in the OU Soccer Complex.
As of 2021 the head coach is Mark Carr, a graduate of Bournemouth University, who was formerly head coach of the United States women's national under-20 soccer team.

Softball
The OU softball program qualified four times for the AIAW WCWS (1975, 1980, 1981, 1982) and 16 times for the Women's College World Series (Division I) (2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2021,2022,and 2023).In October 1994, OU hired Patty Gasso as the fifth head coach in program history. In 29 years, she has built OU into one of the premier collegiate softball programs in the nation. Within her first five seasons in Norman, Gasso led the Sooners to the final Big Eight championship (1995) and 15  Big 12 titles (1996,1999,2000,2009,2012,2013,2014,2015,2016,2017,2018,2019,2021,2022,and 2023).
In 2000, Oklahoma won its first Women's College World Series title by defeating perennial power UCLA. It marked the first national championship by a women's athletics program in school history. OU rolled through the 2013 season en route to its second WCWS title. The 2016 Sooners won the program's third national title while starting four sophomores and four freshmen. Despite entering the 2017 postseason tournament as a No. 10 national seed, OU won its second consecutive WCWS title and fourth overall. Game One of the WCWS champion series featured a 17-inning thriller in which the Sooners defeated Florida 7-5. The 2021 WCWS saw OU drop its opener to James Madison before rebounding to earn a spot in the championship series against Florida State. The Sooners defeated the Seminoles in three games to win the program's fifth national title.

Men's and women's track and field
The men's and women's outdoor track and field teams host meets at the John Jacobs Track and Field Complex. The men's and women's indoor track and field teams host meets at the Mosier Indoor Track Facility.

Wrestling
The Sooner wrestling program was established in 1920 and is the fourth most decorated in college wrestling, having won seven NCAA national championships in 1936, 1951, 1952, 1957, 1960, 1963 and 1974. The Sooners are considered a power in their own right and Bedlam matches draw big home crowds, with the Howard McCasland Field House being the home for Sooner Wrestling. There are numerous All-Americans and National Champions that have wrestled for the Oklahoma Sooners. Mark Cody was head coach of the program for five years before his resignation in 2016. During his time, Cody coached the Sooners to 10th in 2014. Under Cody, the Sooners had ten All-Americans and two national champions (Kendric Maple and Cody Brewer). His replacement was Lou Rosselli, a former assistant at Ohio State. Roger Kish took over as head coach in 2023.
Notable Oklahoma Sooner wrestlers include:

Melvin Douglas – 2-time NCAA Champion, World Champion, and 8 time U.S. National Champion in freestyle wrestling
Tommy Evans – 2-time NCAA Champion and 2-time NCAA Outstanding Wrestler
Jared Frayer – 2-time NCAA All-American and National Finalist, competed at 2012 Summer Olympics
Dan Hodge – 3-time NCAA Champion, 2-time Outstanding Wrestler, and namesake of Dan Hodge Trophy award which is awarded to America's best college wrestler
Mickey Martin – 3-time NCAA Champion and NCAA Outstanding Wrestler
Dave Schultz – NCAA, World and Olympic Champion
Mark Schultz – 3-time NCAA Champion, NCAA Outstanding Wrestler, 2-time World Champion and Olympic Champion
Wayne Wells – NCAA, World and Olympic ChampionOklahoma Sooner Wrestling team accomplishments: 

23 Conference Titles
263 All-Americans
65 individual NCAA Champions
7 NCAA Championships: 1936, 1951, 1952, 1957, 1960, 1963 and 1974

Notable non-varsity sports
Rugby
Oklahoma plays college rugby in the Allied Rugby Conference of Division 1A. Oklahoma has participated several times in the Collegiate Rugby Championship (CRC), often matching up against rival Texas. The CRC, held every year at PPL Park in Philadelphia, is the highest profile college rugby competition in the US, and is broadcast live on NBC each year.
The Oklahoma University Rugby Football Club was established in 1974. OU Rugby has experienced success since its founding, including an undefeated record in the 1983–1984 season, and reached the national quarter-finals five times from 1980 to 1990. The early 2000s saw Oklahoma return to its winning ways, winning the Big 12 Rugby Tournament four times. The captain of that squad, All American Tyson Meek, played for the US national rugby team, and went on to become OU's first professional rugby player. Oklahoma finished the 2005 season with a 19–1 record.

Rivalries
Nebraska Cornhuskers
A traditional college football rivalry with the Nebraska Cornhuskers was much less intense during the Big 12 years than it was in the Big 8 era. This was mainly due to the split-division nature of the Big 12 that only allowed the teams to play each other twice every four years. Prior to this, these teams were involved in several historic match-ups, including the Game of the Century and the so-called Game of the New Century where the teams have come into the game ranked one and two in the Associated Press poll, making the games of great importance in deciding the national championship. Historically, the rivalry's most distinguishing quality has been the grudging respect and appreciation between the two tradition-rich programs. Also of note is the game's former status as the premier Thanksgiving Day game for the middle of the country. The Sooners and Cornhuskers went head-to-head in the 2006 Big 12 Championship Game, with Oklahoma winning the conference title by the score of 21–7. The two teams also met in the 2010 Big 12 Championship Game, with Oklahoma again the victor in a close game by a score of 23–20. This turned out to be the final conference meeting between the two teams, as Nebraska departed for the Big Ten Conference the following season.

Oklahoma State Cowboys
Oklahoma's shares an intrastate rivalry with the Oklahoma State Cowboys and is often referred to as the "Bedlam Series." It is normally played as a home-and-home series with games alternating between Norman and Stillwater, with the exception of the baseball teams, who often play at Chickasaw Bricktown Ballpark in Oklahoma City or ONEOK Field in Tulsa. Oklahoma currently leads the series 86–18–7 in football, and 124–88 in basketball In baseball the series is tied at 147–147, and in wrestling Oklahoma trails the series 27–128–9.

Texas Longhorns
The Texas Longhorns are one rival of the Sooners. Regardless of the trademark implications, inverted versions of the Longhorn mascot can be seen on automobiles all over the Norman campus, and many T-shirts referring to the rivalry present the word "Texas" in mirror image, upside-down, or possibly surrounded by obscenities. A reminder of the rivalry shared by these two schools was painted on the South Oval of the OU campus for many years, and was recently replicated near the Library clock tower due to construction at its original site.
The annual game between the schools at the Cotton Bowl in Dallas, Texas, known as the Red River Showdown, is a game that draws attention from all around the college football world.

Traditions
The "fight song" of the University of Oklahoma is "Boomer Sooner", a version of "Boola Boola", the fight song of Yale University, combined with a version of "I'm a Tar Heel Born", the fight song of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. "Boomer Sooner" was written by Arthur M. Alden in 1905. Other songs played at athletic events by The Pride of Oklahoma Marching Band are a version of Rodgers and Hammerstein's "Oklahoma!", "OK Oklahoma", played after extra points, and the "OU Chant." At home games, The Pride of Oklahoma Marching Band plays that visiting team's "fight song" while facing their fans.
The Mascot present at all football games is the Sooner Schooner, a Conestoga wagon, pulled by two crème white ponies, Boomer and Sooner. The caretakers of the wagon are the spirit group called the RUF/NEKS, who shoot off modified shotguns in celebration of scores by the home team. The group was launched in 1915 when an elderly female spectator at an OU-Oklahoma A&M basketball game chided the group for raising hell ("Sit down and be quiet, you roughnecks!")Recently, in time for the 2005 football season, two new mascots, based on the ponies who pull the Schooner, were created, named appropriately, Boomer and Sooner. They are costumes of two identical (except for eye color) crème white ponies. Before, the Boomer and Sooner costume mascots, OU was also represented by Top Dawg. Top Dawg did some appearances at football games, but was primarily used at wrestling and basketball events.
The official school colors are Crimson and Cream, with red and white sometimes used as substitutes for simplicity. The school logo is an interlocking OU design.

Championships
National Team Championships
SoonerSports.TV
SoonerSports.tv is a streaming network and programming block founded in 2012 to carry University of Oklahoma sports programming. The network is operated by Bally Sports and the University of Oklahoma. SoonerSports.tv focuses solely on University of Oklahoma athletics. The network carries live sporting events, game replays, coaches shows, vignettes and historical pieces. The live sports that currently air on the network include one football game through pay per view, one men's basketball game, and select games from baseball, softball, volleyball, wrestling, soccer, and men’s and women’s gymnastics.Select men's and women's basketball games, select softball, and select baseball games, are also distributed to the regional Bally Sports networks and their affiliates as part of the programming block.The network was created in 2012 as part of an agreement with the Fox Sports Networks. In 2021, following the re branding of the Fox Sports Networks to Bally Sports, Bally Sports took over operation. On May 5, 2022 it was announced that SoonerSports.TV will be ending and will be rebrand as Soonervision on ESPN + under a multi-year deal with ESPN. .
Passage 5:
Keith Nichol
Keith Nichol (born December 24, 1988) is a former wide receiver and quarterback. He played college football for the University of Oklahoma and Michigan State University.

High school career
Nichol attended Lowell High School in Lowell, Michigan. After a good freshman season, Nichol was promoted to the varsity team for the playoffs and saw some playing time as a cornerback in a blowout. Nichol had a breakout season as a sophomore. He threw for 2,125 yards and 26 touchdowns in Lowell's veer offense and led the team to a state championship. His success led to him being heavily recruited by several teams in the Big Ten Conference as well as the University of Notre Dame. In July 2005, Nichol committed to play for the  Michigan State University Spartans. Nichol also participated in the ESPN RISE Elite 11 quarterback camp. After his commitment, the Spartans went 9-14 and head coach John L. Smith was fired. As a result, Nichol backed out of his commitment with the Spartans and committed to the University of Oklahoma, a school that expressed strong interest in him after his de-commitment. In his senior year, Nichol passed for 2,225 yards and 31 touchdowns. As a three-year starter, Nichol won 33 games with three losses. He passed for 6,550 yards and 76 touchdowns and ran for 3,100 yards and 58 touchdowns in his high school career. He was an all-state selection three times. Nichol was ranked as the sixth best dual-threat quarterback in the country out of high school by Rivals.com. Scout.com ranked him the 22nd best high school quarterback overall.

College career
Freshman season
At Oklahoma, Nichol competed against redshirt freshman Sam Bradford and junior Joey Halzle for the starting quarterback position during spring practices in 2007. After a scrimmage game, Bradford was named the starter. During the year, Nichol was the third-string quarterback, playing in three games and completing two of seven passes for 15 yards. After the season, Nichol transferred to Michigan State, the school he had originally committed to while back in high school. By NCAA rule, Nichol had to sit out the 2008 season.

Sophomore season
Before the 2009 season, Nichol competed against sophomore Kirk Cousins for the starting quarterback position. Cousins started the first game with Nichol receiving playing time in which he threw two touchdown passes in a victory over the Montana State Bobcats. On October 10, 2009, Nichol made his first career start against the Illinois Fighting Illini. He completed 13 of 25 passes for 179 yards and one interception in a victory.  In preparation for the 2010 Alamo Bowl, Nichol changed over to the wide-receiver position, catching two passes for 11 yards and also scored his first career rushing touchdown against the Red Raiders, with a 7-yard run out of the wildcat formation in the third quarter.

Junior season
He was an Academic All-Big Ten selection and appeared in all 13 games in 2010, including eight starts.  Ranked fifth on the team with 22 receptions for 262 yards (11.9 avg.), caught at least one pass in 11 games, and also completed 4-of-7 passes for 62 yards and two scores.  With Kirk Cousins and Andrew Maxwell sidelined with injuries vs. No. 15 Alabama in the 2011 Capital One Bowl, he took snaps at quarterback in the fourth quarter and hit 2-of-5 throws for 56 yards, including a 49-yard TD strike to Bennie Fowler, Keith also had three catches for 22 yards against the Crimson Tide.  His 3-yard TD toss to Charlie Gantt with 8:31 left in the fourth quarter at Penn State gave MSU a 28-10 lead and proved to be the game winner as the Spartans held on for a 28-22 victory to clinch a share of the 2010 Big Ten Championship, caught three passes for 19 yards vs. Purdue, and set career highs in receptions (4) and receiving yards (51) at Northwestern, including two catches for 34 yards on MSU's game-winning touchdown drive in the fourth quarter.  His career-long 42-yard grab from Cousins at No. 18 Michigan set up Larry Caper's 8-yard TD run late in the third quarter, hauled in three passes for 30 yards vs. No. 11 Wisconsin, caught two passes for 32 yards in the season opener vs. Western Michigan, including his first career touchdown reception, a 20-yard grab from Cousins early in the second quarter.

Senior season
Nichol played an important role as receiver for the Spartans during the 2011 season. He caught a hail mary touchdown pass on the final play against No. 6 Wisconsin, securing the Spartans victory and went on to win the Big Ten Legends Division and will have a rematch against No. 15 Wisconsin in the 2011 Big Ten Championship Game. He help lead the Spartans to a comeback win against No. 16 Georgia in the 2012 Outback Bowl.

College statistics
Professional career
On May 3, 2012, Nichol joined with the Washington Redskins as an undrafted free agent on a try-out basis. The next day, it was reported that he was attending the Redskins' rookie mini-camp, which reunited him with Michigan State teammate, Kirk Cousins. Nichol was not offered a contract at the end of the mini-camp. He later attended rookie mini-camp with the Chicago Bears and worked out for the Detroit Lions, but wasn't offered a contract by either team.
Passage 6:
Michigan State University College of Law
The Michigan State University College of Law (Michigan State Law or MSU Law) is the law school of Michigan State University, a public research university in East Lansing, Michigan. Established in 1891 as the Detroit College of Law, it was the first law school in the Detroit, Michigan area and the second in the state of Michigan. In October 2018, the college began a process to fully integrate into Michigan State University, changing from a private to a public law school. The integration with Michigan State University was finalized on August 17, 2020.
The college is nationally ranked within U.S. News & World Report's 201 Best Law Schools, landing in the 91st spot in the 2023 rankings. The Michigan State Law Review, a legal journal published by MSU Law students, was ranked 48th in the 2022 Washington & Lee University School of Law ranking.For the class entering in 2021, the school had a 48.05% acceptance rate, 33.14% of those accepted enrolled, and entering students had a median LSAT score of 156 and a median undergraduate GPA of 3.59.For the 2020 graduating class, 72.5% of graduates obtained full-time, long term bar passage required employment (i.e. employment as attorneys), while 7.9% were not employed part or full-time in any capacity, within ten months after graduation.Notable alumni include current Governor of Michigan Gretchen Whitmer, current Michigan Supreme Court Chief Justice Elizabeth T. Clement, former Michigan Supreme Court Justice and mayor of Detroit Dennis Archer, former Michigan Supreme Court Justice and United States federal judge George Clifton Edwards Jr., former Michigan gubernatorial candidate Geoffrey Fieger, former Michigan Senate majority leader and former U.S. Representative Mike Bishop, and former mayor of East Lansing Mark Meadows.

History
Detroit College of Law
Detroit College of Law opened in 1891 with 69 students and was incorporated in 1893. Among the first class of students to graduate were a future circuit judge and an ambassador. It was the oldest continuously operating independent law school in the United States until it was assimilated by MSU in 1995.  The college was affiliated with the Detroit Young Men's Christian Association.In 1937, the school broke ground and relocated to a new building at 130 East Elizabeth Street in Detroit, where it stayed until 1997. The Building was designed by architect George DeWitt Mason.  It had been located at the former Detroit College of Medicine building on St. Antoine Street from 1892 to 1913; and the Detroit "YMCA" building from 1913 to 1924; the ground on which the building stood was under a 99-year lease from the YMCA. The last location of the Detroit College of Law in Downtown Detroit is commemorated by a plaque at Comerica Park, the home stadium of the Detroit Tigers baseball team, which now occupies the site.

Affiliation with Michigan State University
The college became affiliated with Michigan State University in 1995 to enhance the college's curriculum and reputation. It relocated to East Lansing in 1997, when its 99-year lease with the Detroit YMCA expired, and the original building was demolished to make way for Comerica Park. The newly located college was called "Detroit College of Law at Michigan State University". The affiliation was celebrated at a function where former President and Michigan native Gerald Ford joined more than 2,500 guests at the Wharton Center for Performing Arts Great Hall. Ford characterized the affiliation between Michigan State University and the Detroit College of Law "a bold new venture" that presents "a singular opportunity to help shape the changing face of American legal education well into the next century." In April 2004, the school changed its name to the MSU College of Law, becoming more closely aligned academically with MSU. MSU Law is currently fully integrated as a constituent college of the university: academically, financially, and structurally.

Joan Howarth began her deanship at Michigan State University College of Law on July 1, 2008 and was the first female dean in MSU Law's 117-year history. Beforehand, she was a professor at the William S. Boyd School of Law at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, since 2001.  She retired at the end of the 2015-16 school year. Lawrence Ponoroff became the Dean in the fall of 2016, and he served in that role until the end of December 2019. 
On October 26, 2018, MSU's board of directors voted to fully integrate the College of Law into the University, thereby completing its transition from a private, independent institution to a public law school. At the time, Dean Lawrence Ponoroff said, "Since the original affiliation in 1995, the relationship between the university and the law college has grown increasingly closer and, at each stage, resounded in benefits to both institutions." The full integration was undertaken in order to facilitate collaboration between the law school and other divisions of MSU, opening up development in core areas of curricular strength such as social justice; innovation and entrepreneurship; and business and regulatory law. 
Melanie B. Jacobs, professor of law, was then appointed as the law college’s interim dean, beginning in January 2020 and under her tenure, the integration of the College of Law into the University was completed on August 17, 2020. On June 1, 2021, Linda Sheryl Greene became Dean and MSU Foundation Professor of Law, and is the Inaugural Dean of the College of Law. Dean Greene (a noted scholar in constitutional law, civil rights law and sports law) was previously the Evjue-Bascom Professor of Law at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.

Academic programs
MSU Law also houses the Center for Law, Technology & Innovation (CLTI), formerly named the ReInvent Law Program, and LegalRnD; the Indigenous Law & Policy Center (ILPC); and the Geoffrey N. Fieger Trial Practice Institute (TPI).

Academic journals and publications
Law journals at the law school are nationally ranked and include: 

Michigan State Law Review, the school's flagship journal, ranked 48th among flagship printed journals ranked by Washington and Lee in 2022.
Michigan State International Law Review
Animal and Natural Resource Law ReviewAdditionally, the school also publishes Spartan Lawyer, the law college's bi-annual magazine. Formerly, the school published the Journal of Business & Securities Law.

Notable faculty
Current
Rosemarie Aquilina, circuit court judge in Michigan who sentenced Larry Nassar in the USA Gymnastics sex abuse scandal involving Michigan State.
Brian C. Kalt, legal scholar and writer who is known for his research on constitutional law, the presidency, and juries.
Jim Chen, one of four Asian-Americans who has been a dean at an American law school (University of Louisville School of Law).
Lawrence Ponoroff, professor at MSU Law and former Dean of James E. Rogers College of Law, Tulane Law School, and MSU Law.
Robert P. Young Jr., former Justice of the Michigan Supreme Court.

Former
Elizabeth Price Foley, legal theorist and current Professor of Law at Florida International University College of Law.
Allen L. Lanstra, litigation partner at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP.
Donald Laverdure, former director of the American Indian Law Program at MSU Law and oversaw the Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education under the presidency of Barack Obama.
David McKeague, Senior United States Circuit Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.
Richard D. McLellan,  Chairman of the Michigan Law Revision Commission and private practice attorney.
Stacy Erwin Oakes, member of the Michigan House of Representatives and Minority Whip representing Michigan's 95th District.
Bradford Stone, commercial law maven and theorist, Stetson University College of Law Charles A. Dana Professor of Law Emeritus, author of several editions of Uniform Commercial Code in a Nutshell and  coauthor of Commercial Transactions Under the Uniform Commercial Code.
Melissa L. Tatum, research professor and former director of the Indigenous Peoples Law and Policy Program at James E. Rogers College of Law.

Notable alumni
Judges
Dennis Archer, former Justice of the Michigan Supreme Court and former mayor of Detroit, Michigan
Elizabeth T. Clement, Justice of the Michigan Supreme Court since 2017, and current chief justice
George Crockett III, Judge of the Recorder's Court (Detroit) (renamed the Wayne County Circuit Court) from 1977 to 2003
George Clifton Edwards Jr., Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
Bernard A. Friedman, Judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan
Diane Marie Hathaway, former Justice of the Michigan Supreme Court
Ira W. Jayne, chief judge, Wayne County Circuit Court for 27 years
Richard Fred Suhrheinrich, Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit

Politicians
Mike Bishop, Michigan Senate majority leader from 2002–10 and U.S. Representative for Michigan's 8th congressional district from 2015-2018
Christopher D. Dingell, state senator and judge
Geoffrey Fieger, attorney and former Michigan gubernatorial candidate
Orville L. Hubbard, former mayor of Dearborn, Michigan
Kwame Kilpatrick, former mayor of Detroit, Michigan
Mark Meadows, former mayor of East Lansing a former member of the Michigan House of Representatives
Steve Pestka, former member of the Michigan House of Representatives, judge, and a Kent County, Michigan commissioner
Brian Sims, Democratic representative for the Pennsylvania House of Representatives, 182nd District
Gretchen Whitmer, 49th Governor of Michigan

Public figures
Ivan Boesky, former American stock trader infamous for his prominent role in an insider trading scandal that occurred in the United States during the mid-1980s resulting in his conviction including a record $100 million fine.
Ella Bully-Cummings, chief of police of Detroit, Michigan, from 2003 to 2008
John Z. DeLorean, automobile engineer and executive; attended, but dropped out
Lowell W. Perry, former government official, businessman, broadcaster, and the first African-American assistant coach in the National Football League
W. Clement Stone, businessman, philanthropist and New Thought self-help book author; dropped out after a year
Passage 7:
Lyle Rockenbach
Lyle James "Rocky" Rockenbach (March 1, 1915 – November 8, 2005) was an American football player.  He played college football for Michigan State College (later known as Michigan State University) from 1937 to 1939. He blocked three punts in a single game against Temple in 1937.  He was a co-captain of the 1939 Michigan State team, and was also honored as the team's most valuable player.  After graduating from Michigan State, he became a high school coach in Howell, Michigan.  In the summer of 1943, he attempted a comeback as a professional football player for the Detroit Lions. He appeared in nine games for the Lions during the 1943 NFL season.
Passage 8:
Rudy Rosatti
Rudoph F. "Rudy" or "Rosy" Rosatti (September 12, 1895 – July 9, 1975) was an American football player. 
Rosatti was born in 1895 at Norway in Michigan's Upper Peninsula. He attended Norway High School.Rosatti played football at North Dakota State University and Western Michigan University before enrolling at the University of Michigan. He played tackle for the 1922 Michigan Wolverines football team.He later played professional football for the Cleveland Indians (1923), Green Bay Packers (1924-1927), and New York Giants (1928). He appeared in a total of 45 NFL games, 40 of them as a starter.Rosatti worked for the Michigan State Highway Department for 32 years from 1933 to 1965 and retired as the chief of highway maintenance for the western half of the Upper Peninsula. In December 1933, Rosatti fatally shot James Contratta with a rifle at a road building camp 40 mi (64 km) west of Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan. Rosatti was released after the coroner determined the shooting to have been accidental.Rosatti died in 1975 at age 79 at his home in his hometown of Norway, Michigan.

See also
1922 Michigan Wolverines football team
Passage 9:
1966 Notre Dame vs. Michigan State football game
The 1966 Notre Dame vs. Michigan State football game is considered one of the greatest and most controversial games in college football history played between Michigan State and Notre Dame. The game was played in Michigan State's Spartan Stadium on November 19, 1966. Notre Dame was coached by Ara Parseghian and Michigan State was coached by Duffy Daugherty, both school legends. Michigan State entered the contest 9–0 and ranked No. 2, while Notre Dame entered 8–0 and ranked No. 1.
Notre Dame elected not to try for a score on the final series; thus, the game ended in a 10–10 tie.
The late-season clash between the top-ranked teams was billed as the year's national championship game. After the tie, and following their final game vs. USC, Notre Dame was selected as national champions by the AP Poll and UPI Coaches Poll and was awarded the Grantland Rice Trophy by the Football Writers Association of America. The National Football Foundation split their national championship, awarding the MacArthur Bowl jointly to Michigan State and Notre Dame.

Introduction
Notre Dame entered the contest ranked No. 1 both the AP and Coaches' polls. Defending National Champion Michigan State, who had finished the 1965 season No. 1 in the UPI Coaches' poll, but was upset by UCLA in the Rose Bowl the previous year, entered the game ranked No. 2 in the polls. The Fighting Irish, whose bid for a national championship two years earlier was snuffed out by Southern Cal, were hungry, while the Spartans had history and home-field advantage on their side. This was the first time in 20 years that a college football matchup was given the "Game of the Century" tag by the national media, and ABC had the nation's viewers in its grip, with equal parts Notre Dame fans and Michigan State fans. It was the tenth time in the 30-year history of the AP poll that the No. 1 team played the No. 2 team. The Spartans had defeated Notre Dame the prior year 12–3 holding Notre Dame to minus-12 yards rushing.A fortuitous quirk in scheduling brought these two teams together late in the season. They were not even supposed to meet when the 1966 schedules were first drawn up. Michigan State had only nine games scheduled (even though they were allowed to have ten; the Big Ten did not allow teams to schedule ten regular season games until 1964) while Notre Dame was originally scheduled to play Iowa that week, as had been the custom since 1945. However, in 1960, the Hawkeyes suddenly dropped the Irish from their schedule, from 1964 onward (the 1963 Notre Dame-Iowa game was cancelled following the assassination of John F. Kennedy). Michigan State was available and agreed to return to Notre Dame's schedule in 1965–66.The game was not shown live on national TV. Each team was allotted one national television appearance and two regional television appearances each season. Notre Dame had used their national TV slot in the season opening game against Purdue and Michigan State had used their regional TV slot against Purdue. ABC executives did not even want to show the game anywhere but the regional area, but pressure from the West Coast and the South (to the tune of 50,000 letters) made ABC air the game on tape delay. ABC relented and blacked out the Michigan State-Notre Dame game in two states (reportedly North Dakota and South Dakota), so it could technically be called a regional broadcast. It would also be the first time a college football game was broadcast live to Hawaii and to U.S. troops in Vietnam on the Lani Bird satellite; at halftime, the link was reversed and ABC broadcast a 90-second film of sunbathers at the Hawaiian Village Hotel to the nation. The official attendance was announced at 80,011 (111% capacity) and was the most attended game in Michigan State football history at the time (the current record is 80,401 on Sept. 22, 1990 vs. Notre Dame).The ABC broadcast was watched by 33 million viewers and had a 22.5 rating, but it was not televised again for 37 years until ESPN Classic re-aired it on November 27, 2003. Discovered in an ABC library vault two years earlier in 2001, the telecast footage is mostly intact with the exception of the missing first quarter.

Game summary
Before and during the game, Notre Dame was mired in injury problems: Irish quarterback Terry Hanratty was knocked out after getting sacked in the first quarter by Spartan defensive lineman Bubba Smith. Starting Notre Dame running back Nick Eddy was out entirely after hurting his shoulder by slipping on ice while getting off the train in East Lansing. Center George Goeddeke wrenched his ankle on a punt play.
Michigan State jumped out to a 7–0 lead behind a five-yard touchdown run by Regis Cavender early in the second quarter. Later in the half, MSU added a field goal (by barefooted Hawaiian Dick Kenney). But the Irish came back, quickly scoring a touchdown on a 34-yard pass thrown by backup quarterback Coley O'Brien over the outstretched hand of MSU safety Jess Phillips to halfback Bob Gladieux. MSU took a 10–7 lead into the locker room at the half.
Notre Dame started the second half in prime position to score after recovering a fumble on the Michigan State 32-yard line on the Spartans' first play from scrimmage. However, the Irish gave the ball right back to MSU on an interception.
Perhaps the best second-half scoring opportunity for MSU occurred during a pass thrown from Jimmy Raye to Gene Washington. The speedy wide receiver had outrun Raye's deep pass and Notre Dame's defensive backfield. Washington was forced to double back, and in so doing was caught by the defense.
Notre Dame tied the game on the first play of the fourth quarter on Joe Azzaro's 28-yard field goal. Tom Schoen's second interception on consecutive plays from scrimmage by Michigan State put Notre Dame in a position to take the lead, but Azzaro's 41-yard field goal attempt with 4:38 left on the clock missed by inches to the right.
After a Michigan State punt Notre Dame had the ball on its own 30-yard line with 1:24 left. They needed about 40 yards for a game-winning field goal. But coach Ara Parseghian, not wanting to risk a turnover that could hand the game to the Spartans, chose to run the ball four times—including on fourth down, which Notre Dame converted from its own 39-yard line. Michigan State called three time outs in an unsuccessful attempt to perhaps get the ball back and start a potential game-winning drive of their own.
After making a first down with ten seconds left, O'Brien dropped back to pass, but was sacked by Bubba Smith. On the last play of the game, O'Brien gained five yards on a quarterback sneak. The game ended in a 10–10 tie.

Notre Dame play-calling controversy
Ara Parseghian's decision to run the ball on five of six plays in the last one-and-a-half minutes drew criticism from some fans and sportswriters, who argued he should have played more aggressively to either win the game or risk losing it, and left some fans feeling disappointed at the game not having a more definitive resolution. Echoing one of the great idioms of Notre Dame lore, college football expert Dan Jenkins led off his article on the game for Sports Illustrated by sarcastically saying that Parseghian chose to "Tie one for the Gipper". Jenkins concluded that Parseghian "felt arrogantly sure that Notre Dame could win the polls with a tie, not just over Michigan State but also over an undefeated and untied Alabama".Until his death in 2017, however, Parseghian defended his end-of-the-game strategy. According to the same article, Parseghian cited his team's field position and the dynamics of the game as reasons why he hadn't played more aggressively: "We'd fought hard to come back and tie it up. After all that, I didn't want to risk giving it to them cheap. They get reckless and it could cost them the game. I wasn't going to do a jackass thing like that at this point. [...] My starting quarterback, starting center, starting left tackle and all my top guys were over on the bench with me. We hadn't completed a pass in the last seven or eight attempts."

Aftermath
The most famous president of each school, Notre Dame’s Father Theodore Hesburgh and MSU’s John Hannah, together went into each locker room to console and congratulate the players. The two visionary leaders served for several years on the Civil Rights Commission beginning in the late 1950s and sat together during the MSU-Notre Dame battles.The tie resulted in 9–0–1 seasons for both Michigan State and Notre Dame. The final AP and Coaches' polls put the Irish and Spartans at No. 1 and No. 2, ranking both teams above the undefeated, and two time defending national champion 11–0–0 Alabama. Both schools shared the MacArthur Bowl.
Notre Dame beat USC 51–0 the next week, completing an undefeated (but tied) regular season and solidifying its No. 1 claim. The Irish did not accept bowl bids between 1926 and 1969 (see below), and Michigan State was the victim of two Big Ten rules that would be rescinded a few years later: The same school could not represent the league in the Rose Bowl in back-to-back seasons (rescinded in December 1971, effective for the 1972 season), and no Big Ten school could play in a bowl game other than the Rose Bowl (rescinded for the 1975 season). So despite being Big Ten Champions and undefeated in the regular season, the Spartans could not play in the Rose Bowl, or indeed any bowl game.
Players for both schools earned tremendous accolades for the season including All American honors. In the 1967 NFL draft, Michigan State had four players drafted within the first eight picks of the first roundAfter (but not necessarily as a result of) Eddy's injury while debarking from the train in East Lansing, Notre Dame football never traveled to away games by train again. Both teams now make the 160-mile trip by bus.

Legacy
40th anniversary
On September 23, 2006, Michigan State and Notre Dame commemorated the 40th anniversary of the game. Michigan State wore "throwback" jerseys and helmets from the 1960s era. Notre Dame declined to wear throwback jerseys or helmets. 45 members from the original '66 squad returned. In addition, 1965 and 1966 All American Bubba Smith had his No. 95 jersey retired at halftime, becoming only the third person in Michigan State history with such an honor. Notre Dame won the game 40–37, after coming back from a 16-point deficit and scoring 19 straight points to win.

50th anniversary
On September 16, 2016, Notre Dame commemorated the 50th anniversary of the game. Members of the 1966 Notre Dame team appeared on the field prior to the game.
Passage 10:
David Hollister
David Hollister (born April 3, 1942) served as the mayor of Lansing, Michigan from 1993 to 2003, until he resigned to be the director of the Michigan Department of Labor and Economic Growth under Michigan Governor Jennifer Granholm's administration.

Mayor
During his tenure as mayor, he was instrumental in convincing General Motors Corporation to build the Grand River Assembly Plant downtown, and to build a new plant in the region to replace the Lansing Car Assembly Plant which dated back to 1903. Also under his tenure came the completion of Cooley Law School Stadium, the stadium for the Lansing Lugnuts, a Class A minor league baseball team. Hollister made central city (including downtown and Old Town) revitalization a top priority of his administration.

Biography
Early life
Hollister was born in Kalamazoo and raised in Battle Creek, Michigan, where he graduated from Battle Creek Central High School. He earned bachelor's and master's degrees from Michigan State University.

Career
From 1967 to 1970 he was a social studies teacher at Lansing Eastern High School. Prior to becoming mayor, he served in the Michigan House of Representatives from 1973-1993 representing the City of Lansing. In 2005 he was recruited to run Prima Civitas, an economic development organization funded by Michigan State University and the city governments of Lansing and East Lansing, Michigan.