ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
We were incorporated in Delaware in 1952. Our corporate offices in the United States are located at 1440 East Missouri Avenue Suite 160, Phoenix, Arizona 85014. Our Phoenix telephone number is (602) 264-1375. Our corporate offices in Mexico are located in Mexico City and our corporate offices in Peru are located in Lima. Our website is www.southerncoppercorp.com. We believe that our existing properties are in good condition and adequate to conduct of our business.
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
The following maps show the locations of our principal mines, smelting facilities and refineries. We operate open-pit copper mines in the southern part of Peru-at Toquepala and Cuajone-and in Mexico, at La Caridad and Buenavista. We also operate five underground mines that produce zinc, copper, silver and gold.
EXTRACTION, SMELTING AND REFINING PROCESSES
Our operations include open-pit and underground mining, concentrating, copper smelting, copper refining, copper rod production, solvent extraction/electrowinning (“SX-EW”), zinc refining, sulfuric acid production, molybdenum concentrate production and silver and gold refining. The extraction and production process are summarized below.
OPEN-PIT MINING
In an open-pit mine, the production process begins at the mine pit, where waste rock, leaching ore and copper ore are drilled and blasted and then loaded onto diesel-electric trucks by electric shovels. Waste is hauled to dump areas and leaching ore is hauled to leaching dumps. The ore to be milled is transported to the primary crushers.
UNDERGROUND MINING
In an underground mine, the production process begins at the stopes, where copper, zinc and lead veins are drilled and blasted and the ore is hauled to the underground crusher station. The crushed ore is then hoisted to the surface for processing.
CONCENTRATING
The copper ore with a copper grade over 0.4% from the primary crusher or the copper, zinc and lead-bearing ore from the underground mines is transported to a concentrator plant where gyratory crushers break the ore into sizes no larger than three-quarter of an inch. The ore is then sent to a mill section where it is ground to the consistency of fine powder. The finely ground ore is mixed with water and chemical reagents and pumped as a slurry to the flotation separator, where it is mixed with certain chemicals. In the flotation separator, reagent solutions and air pumped into the flotation cells cause the minerals to separate from the waste rock and bubble to the surface where they are collected and dried.
If the bulk concentrated copper contains molybdenum, it is first processed in a molybdenum plant as described below under “Molybdenum Production.”
COPPER SMELTING
Copper concentrates are transported to a smelter, where they are smelted using a furnace, converter and anode furnace to produce either blister copper (which is in the form of cakes with air pockets) or copper anodes (which are cleaned of air pockets). At the smelter, the concentrates are mixed with flux (a chemical substance intentionally included for high temperature processing) and then sent to reverberatory furnaces producing copper matte and slag (a mixture of iron and other impurities). Copper matte contains approximately 65% copper. Copper matte is then sent to the converters, where the material is oxidized in two steps: (i) the iron sulfides in the matte are oxidized with silica, producing slag that is returned to the reverberatory furnaces, and (ii) the copper contained in the matte sulfides is then oxidized to produce copper that, after casting, is called blister copper, containing approximately 98% to 99% copper, or anodes, containing approximately 99.7% copper. Most of the blister and anode production is sent to the refinery and the remainder is sold to customers.
COPPER REFINING
Anodes are suspended in tanks with a solution containing water, sulfuric acid and copper sulfate. A weak electrical current is passed through the anodes and chemical solution and the dissolved copper is deposited on very thin starting sheets to produce copper cathodes containing approximately 99.99% copper. During this process, silver, gold and other metals (for example, palladium, platinum and selenium), along with other impurities, settle on the bottom of the tank (anodic muds). This anodic mud is processed at a precious metal plant where selenium, silver and gold are recovered.
COPPER ROD PLANT
To produce copper rod, copper cathodes are first smelted in a furnace and then dosed in a casting machine. The dosed copper is then extruded and passed through a cooling system that begins solidification of copper into a 60×50 millimeter copper bar. The resulting copper bar is gradually stretched in a rolling mill to achieve the desired diameter. The rolled bar is then cooled and sprayed with wax as a preservation agent and collected into a rod coil that is compacted and sent to market.
SOLVENT EXTRACTION/ELECTROWINNING (“SX-EW”)
A complementary processing method is the leaching and SX-EW process. During the SX-EW process, low-grade sulfides ore and copper oxides are leached with sulfuric acid to allow copper content recovery. The acid and copper solution is then agitated with a solvent that contains chemical additives that attract copper ions. As the solvent is lighter than water, it floats to the surface carrying with it the copper content. The solvent is then separated using an acid solution, freeing the copper. The acid solution containing the copper is then moved to electrolytic extraction tanks to produce copper cathodes.
MOLYBDENUM PRODUCTION
Molybdenum is recovered from copper-molybdenum concentrates produced at the concentrator. The copper-molybdenum concentrate is first treated with a thickener until it becomes slurry with 60% solids. The slurry is then agitated in a chemical and water solution and pumped to the flotation separator. The separator creates a froth that carries molybdenum to the surface but not the copper mineral (which is later filtered to produce copper concentrates containing approximately 27% copper). The molybdenum froth is skimmed off, filtered and dried to produce molybdenum concentrates of approximately 58% contained molybdenum.
ZINC REFINING
Metallic zinc is produced through electrolysis using zinc concentrates and zinc oxides. Sulfur is eliminated from the concentrates by roasting and the zinc oxide is dissolved in sulfuric acid solution to eliminate solid impurities. The purified zinc sulfide solution is treated by electrolysis to produce refined zinc and to separate silver and gold, which are recovered as concentrates.
SULFURIC ACID PRODUCTION
Sulfur dioxide gases are produced in the copper smelting and zinc roasting processes. As a part of our environmental preservation program, we treat the sulfur dioxide emissions at two of our Mexican plants and at our Peruvian processing facilities to produce sulfuric acid, some of which is, in turn, used for the copper leaching process; the balance is sold to mining and fertilizer companies located mainly in Mexico, Peru, United States and Chile.
SILVER AND GOLD REFINING
Silver and gold are recovered from copper, zinc and lead concentrates in the smelters and refineries and from slimes through electrolytic refining.
KEY PRODUCTION CAPACITY DATA
We own all production facilities. The table below provides details on the locations of production facilities as of December 31, 2020 by reportable segment, the processes used, and the key production and capacity data for each location:
ktpd = thousands of tons per day
ktpy = thousands of tons per year
Tpy = tons per year
(1)Our estimates of actual capacity under normal operating conditions contemplating an allowance for normal downtime for repairs and maintenance and are based on the average metal content for the relevant period.
(2)The Taxco mine has been on strike since July 2007. The Company restored production at the San Martin mine in the second quarter of 2019.
(3)In some cases, real production exceeds nominal capacity due to higher grades and recovery rates.
PROPERTY BOOK VALUE
As of December 31, 2020, net book values of property and mine development were as follows (in millions):
SUMMARY OPERATING DATA
The following table contains certain operating data underlying our financial and operating information for each of the periods indicated.
SLOPE STABILITY:
Peruvian Operations
The Toquepala and Cuajone pits are each approximately 930 meters deep. Under the present mine plan configuration the Toquepala pit will reach a depth of 1,605 meters and the Cuajone pit will reach a depth of 1,380 meters. The increases in the depth of the pits present us with a number of geotechnical challenges. Perhaps the foremost concern is the possibility of slope failure, which all open-pit mines face. In the past, in order to maintain slope stability, we have decreased pit slope angles, installed additional or duplicate haul road access, and increased stripping requirements. We have also responded to hydrological conditions and removed material displaced by slope failures. To meet the geotechnical challenges relating to slope stability of the open-pit mines, we have taken the following steps:
In the late 1990s, we hosted round table meetings with a group of specialists to review pit designs for mines with depths greater than 700 meters. Based on the concepts defined at these meetings, we initiated slope stability studies to define the mining of reserves by optimum design. The studies were completed in 2000 and we believe we have implemented the study recommendations. One of the major changes implemented was slope angle reduction at both mines.
Since 1998, a wall depressurization program has been in place in both pits. This consists of a horizontal drilling program, which improves drainage thereby reducing saturation and increasing wall stability. Additionally, a new blasting control program was put in place and a new slope monitoring system was implemented.
Toquepala:
In 2007, we installed 20 meter wide geotechnical berms every 10 benches at the Toquepala mine. We believe this will further strengthen the stability of the Toquepala pit. In October 2012, two interferometric radars were put in place to monitor slope stability at the Toquepala mine, and in September 2013, new full monitoring software (FMS360) was installed. These systems improve the reliability of instrumentation, the information quality for assessing the behavior of the slopes and anticipates the risks of instability.
In 2013, a mining consulting group began a study of dump stability at the Toquepala mine. This study assessed the current stability of the dumps and is developing a geotechnical campaign to obtain information to assess the stability of the future and final stages of the dumps. In 2016, the stability study was resumed by executing geophysical test and test pits to characterize the dumps. The execution of sonic perforations and complementary geophysical tests are currently pending. On December 2016, the consultants also presented the report “Slope Stability Analysis in Deposits of Waste and Leachable Material”.
In 2016, the mining consultants presented the final report “Physical Stability of the Quebrada Honda tailings dam.” This study consisted in the development of geotechnical investigations, static, seismic and post-seismic stability analysis, filtration analysis, deformation analysis, liquefaction potential analysis and dynamic analysis.
In 2016, as part of the slope stability upgrade study, a geotechnical and hydrological oriented drill program of 3,470 meters was executed at the Toquepala mine. This program was conducted in order to complement the study and to gain a better understanding of the behavior of the rock mass. The geotechnical drilling program involved 11 diamond drill holes, six geotechnical drills and five hydrogeological drills, all of which entailed geological and geotechnical logging. During the execution of these hydrogeological drills, permeability tests in the rock were executed as well as slug tests and constant load tests. Additionally, instrumentation was implemented with five vibrating wire piezometers for the monitoring of water table and to give support to the hydrogeological model. In 2016, the external mining consultants began the report for phase three of this study, which was concluded in 2017. They submitted and updated the block models of inter-ramp angles, the model of rock mass, the hydrogeological model and the 3D structural model. In addition, fieldwork continued on the “Slope Stability Analysis in Deposits of Waste and Leachable Material” study by executing geophysical tests, sampling and laboratory tests of soil mechanics. This study was concluded and submitted by the external consultants in 2018.
Additionally, in 2018 we dedicated efforts to update the geotechnical pit models, which are essential to perform the analysis of slope stability. Related to this, we have carried out actions, including the completion of the geotechnical database implementation, laboratory testing, training, and other important aspects. In 2019, external consultants performed the “2019 Update of Slope Stability Analysis in Deposits of Waste and Leachable Material” study. In addition, an IBIS ArcSAR radar was incorporated into the pit slope monitoring system; this radar equipment offers greater coverage, five kilometers of maximum range and reduced scanning time. Sub- horizontal drains were also implemented for pit slope depressurization.
In 2020, external consultants performed the “Stability Study of the Toquepala Pit in Current Conditions” and “Stability Study of the North, South, East, Northwest Waste Deposits and South Run of Mine (ROM) and Northwest Leach Deposits.” In addition, another IBIS ArcSAR radar, which has a maximum range of five kilometers and offers reduced scanning time, was incorporated into the pit slope monitoring system. We also implemented a database for geotechnical drillholes, implemented the project “Automation and Real Time Monitoring of geotechnical instrumentation in the Pit and Quebrada Honda Tailings Dam” and conditioned a location to install three radars to conduct geotechnical monitoring of the Quebrada Honda Tailings Dam.
In recent years, we have made significant efforts to conduct stability studies of the slopes of the pit, dumps and leachable deposits and tailings to safeguard personnel and equipment; ensure the continuity of operations; and comply with Peruvian regulations.
Cuajone:
At the Cuajone mine, in 2007 in order to minimize the damage to the slopes caused by production blast vibrations, blasting control using three pre-split drills was implemented. Also, the slope monitoring system with reflection prisms has been replaced by a system using slope monitoring radar. In February 2012, the first radar equipment was put in service and in August 2013, the second radar installation and a geotechnical surveillance camera was added. This system improved the reliability and continuity of monitoring, improved the quality of information used to evaluate the performance of the slopes and helped better anticipate the risk of instability. The sub-surface deformation and the water level are still monitored with inclinometers and piezometers. In September 2012, we completed a program of oriented geotechnical drilling totaling 17,938 meters, and in May 2013 we completed a program of vertical geotechnical drilling totaling 2,814 meters, with hydraulic tests performed on rock and subsequently instrumented with inclinometers/piezometers. The geotechnical and hydraulic information obtained from the two programs will be used in the development of a geotechnical study for the new 15-year mine development plan (2015-2029). Additionally, in 2013, we drilled 772 meters of sub-horizontal holes to drain the east slope of the pit. The geotechnical study for the new 15-year mine development plan was completed at the end of 2015, and the result of this study is the increase of the inter ramp angle by an average of three degrees and include 40 meters wide geotechnical berms for inter ramp heights above 150 meters. This study also contains recommendations for improving the stability of the pit slopes.
In 2013, the Board of Directors approved a project to improve slope stability in the southern area of the Cuajone mine, which will remove approximately 148 million tons of waste material to improve the mine design without reducing our actual production level. As of December 31, 2020, 146.4 million tons of waste material had been removed. For further information see Item 7 “Management Discussion and Analysis-Capital Investment Program.”
In 2017, we installed three vibration monitoring stations and ten digital extensometers to monitor surface deformations on waste dumps in real time. We also completed the detailed engineering for the construction of the coronation channel in the west Torata waste dump. In 2018, we began to operate the first radar to monitor blasting vibrations and set up a second geotechnical surveillance camera. This equipment will allow us to improve control over the walls of the pit and to anticipate possible damages.
In 2020, equipment to extract rock samples was implemented in the rock mechanics laboratory. This equipment allows us to obtain cylindrical rock specimens and perform rock mechanics tests under current technical standards and norms. A drone was also incorporated in the slope reconciliation activities to obtain detailed topographic information on the slopes and identify good practices or opportunities to build stable walls.
To increase the possibility of mining in the event of a slide, we have provided for two extraction ramps for each open-pit mine. While these measures cannot guarantee that a slope failure will not occur, we believe that our mining practices are sound and that the steps taken and the ongoing reviews performed are a prudent methodology for open-pit mining.
Mexican operations
In 2004, our 15-year mine plan study for the La Caridad mine was awarded to an independent consulting firm to conduct a geotechnical evaluation. The purpose of the plan was to develop a program of optimum bench design and inter-ramp slope angles for the open-pit. The results of the evaluation presented by the consultants included a recommendation of a maximum average bench face angle of 72 degrees. Additionally, single benching was recommended for the upper sections of the west, south and east walls of the main pit. Double benching was recommended for the lower levels of the main pit and single benching for the upper slope segments that consist of either alluvial material, mine waste dumps or mineralized stockpile material. Alternatively, slopes in these types of materials, may be designed with an overall 37-degree slope. The geostructural and geotechnical parameters recommended were applied in the pit design for the new life of mine plan for La Caridad mine, which was prepared in 2015. This mine plan replaced the 15-year mine plan prepared in 2010. However, since final pit limits have yet to be established at La Caridad, all current pit walls are effectively working slopes. Geostructural and geotechnical data collected at the open-pit mine from cell-mapping and oriented-core drilling databases provided the basis for the geotechnical evaluation and recommendations.
In 2019, we assigned an independent consulting firm to conduct a geotechnical study of La Caridad, which included the Bella Union area, based on a 15-year mining plan. The results of this study included recommendations on geostructural and geotechnical parameters. These were applied to the pit design for the new mine plan for La Caridad, which replaced the 15-year mine plan prepared in 2015. We continue to collect new information related to geotechnical data and other geology features from the mine pit and diamond drill hole to ensure structural security and improve the geotechnical data base for future studies.
At the Buenavista mine, we are following the recommendations produced by a geotechnical evaluation of the design slope for the 15-year pit plan. This evaluation was prepared by an independent mine consulting firm. The assessment included the determination of optimum pit slope design angles and bench design parameters for the proposed mine plan. The objective of the study was: (1) to determine optimum inter-ramp slope angles and bench design parameters for the 15-year plan and (2) to identify and analyze any potential major instability that could adversely impact mine operation. In 2012, we installed a radar system to monitor the walls of the mine.
The following recommendations were made for the Buenavista mine: inter-ramp slope design angles for the 15-year pit plan for all of the 21 design sectors defined on a rock-fabric-based catch bench analysis, using double bench, can range from 48° and 55°, and the inter-ramp slope angles are based on geometries obtained from the back-break analysis using 80% reliability of achieving the required 7.5 meter catch bench width for a single bench configuration and 10.6 meter catch bench width for a double bench configuration. Preliminary observations suggest the 15-year pit walls may be relatively free-draining; the back-break analysis assumed depressurized conditions of mine benches, and the inter-ramp stability analysis were performed for both saturated and depressurized conditions.
A pit dewatering/depressurization plan for the Buenavista mine was also recommended to address the issues of open-pit drainage, dewatering plan and future slope depressurization. Phase I of the geohydrological study was completed by an independent consultant. The analysis included a preliminary assessment and work plan implementation.
In 2011, five wells for extraction and monitoring were drilled close to the mine. Also, we began a drilling program to monitor possible water filtration beyond the limits of the open-pit mine. All the information obtained from these well drilling programs has been analyzed and included in the hydrologic model. The open-pit dewatering program from the bottom benches also continued in 2012 with a drilling program of 3,797 meters, which was conducted at in several monitoring wells to ensure the ability to continue with the current mining plan.
In 2013, Buenavista continued the drilling program monitoring the extraction wells in the area of Increment (Phase) five of the mine and beyond the current limits of the open pit mine.
In 2013, the program to dewater the Buenavista pit bottom continued, in accordance with the short and medium term mine plans. Pumping from sumps located in Increment five, permitted mining of high-grade copper blocks. Concurrent with this operational task, a geophysical study was conducted to determine the best locations for water extraction wells to control the inflow of water to the pit bottom and allow us to continue our mining operations. The water extracted is being used for various purposes, including road irrigation for dust mitigation. The geophysical investigation also permitted the location of underground workings and filtration and seepage through fractures.
A total of 7,339 meters was drilled in 2013 for 30 extraction wells, three of these wells are located in the area of Increment (Phase) five. The rest were drilled at various locations outside of the current open pit mine limit.
In 2014, we continued collecting new geotechnical information from two exploration drilling projects; this data is available to analyze the geotechnical data base for new studies in accordance with slope angle for the open pit excavations. In the free face benches at the open pit mine operations, the cell-mapping were prepared to increment the geotechnical database. Following the recommendations of the geotechnical evaluation, we continued monitoring the walls using the radar system.
Various studies are now being conducted by outside specialized consultants to establish long-range mine water management objectives and implement recommendations for the efficient use of this resource. We are also conducting a geotechnical study and a diamond drilling program with an independent consulting firm in order to obtain additional geotechnical information, which will allow us to verify the slope stability for the long-term mine plan. In addition, slope monitoring continues with the SSR 160 radar.
In July 2020, the OMNI 505 radar began operating. As such, we currently have two working radars, which allow us to cover 95% of the slopes in the operating areas of the mine. We also plan to add two total stations with prisms to this instrumentation. In addition, we expect to begin developing a geotechnical model for the mine, which includes reviewing the hydrological model of the deposit.
Tailings Dams
Tailings are comprised of solid particles originating at the concentrator plants during the grinding process that, combined with water, are sent to specially built structures where they are impounded. The water is recovered to be reused in the process.
Tailings dams are basically built in two manners: by using the coarse fraction from the same tailings or by using external material, often known as “borrowed material” such as rock, clay etc. We believe SCC’s tailings dams are built with the highest quality standards and engineering practices. We comply with and at times exceed the national norms and recommendations of the International Commission on Large Dams (ICOLD). In addition, we maintain a committee including both internal and external specialists, which periodically review the safety and operation of each dam. In 2020, we implemented the project “Automation and Real Time Monitoring of geotechnical instrumentation in the Pit and Quebrada Honda Tailings Dam” and conditioned a location to install three radars to conduct geotechnical monitoring of the Quebrada Honda Tailings Dam. We do not expect that these activities will generate any adverse material effects in our operations.
We have six tailings dams in operation in Mexico and one in Peru as follows:
METAL PRODUCTION BY SEGMENTS
The descriptions below provide details on the operations and other information relating to the operations included in each of our three segments.
PERUVIAN OPERATIONS
Operations in our Peruvian segment include the Cuajone and Toquepala mine complexes and the smelting and refining plants, the industrial railroad that links Ilo, Toquepala and Cuajone and the port facilities.
The map below indicates the approximate location of, and access to, our Cuajone and Toquepala mine complexes and our Ilo processing facilities:
We conduct ongoing maintenance and improvement programs to ensure the satisfactory performance of our equipment. We believe all our Peruvian plant’s equipment is in good physical condition and suitable for our operations.
Cuajone
Our Cuajone operations consist of an open-pit copper mine and a concentrator located in southern Peru, 30 kilometers from the city of Moquegua and 840 kilometers from Lima, at an altitude of 3,430 meters above sea level. Access to the Cuajone property is by plane from Lima to Tacna (1:40 hours) and then by highway to Moquegua and Cuajone (3:30 hours). The concentrator has a milling capacity of 90,000 tons per day. Overburden removal commenced in 1970 and ore production commenced in 1976. Our Cuajone operations utilize a conventional open-pit mining method to collect copper ore for further processing at the concentrator.
The table below shows production information for 2020, 2019 and 2018 for our Cuajone operations:
Key: kt = thousand tons
x = Stripping ratio obtained dividing waste by leachable material plus ore mined.
Copper and molybdenum grades are referred to as total copper grade and total molybdenum grade, respectively.
Geology
The Cuajone porphyry copper deposit is located on the western flank of Cordillera Occidental in the southern-most region of the Andes mountains range of Peru. The deposit is part of a mineral district that contains two additional known deposits, Toquepala and Quellaveco. The copper mineralization at Cuajone is typical of porphyry copper deposits.
The Cuajone deposit is located approximately 30 kilometers north-west from the Toquepala deposit and is part of the Toquepala Group, which dates back approximately 60 to 100 million years (Upper Cretaceous to Lower Tertiary). The Cuajone lithology contains volcanic rocks from the Cretaceous to the Quaternary period. The deposit contains 50 rock types including, pre-mineral rocks, basaltic andesite, porphyritic rhyolite, Toquepala dolerite, Toquepala rhyolite and intrusive rocks, including diorite, porphyritic latite, breccias and dikes. In addition, the following post-mineral rocks are present: the Huaylillas and Chuntacala formations, which have been formed by conglomerates, tuffs sequence, traquites and agglomerates. These formations date from nine to 23 million years. There is also the occurrence of Quaternary rocks, which were formed by alluvial and colluvial mainly located in slopes of hills and streams.
The mineralogy is simple and is evenly distributed. It is mainly composed of minerals such as chalcopyrite (CuFeS2), chalcosine (Cu2S) and molybdenite (MoS2) with occasional presence of galena, enargite and tetraedrite, none of which have economic value.
Mine exploration
Exploration activities during the drill campaign in 2020 were as follows:
Concentrator
Our Cuajone operations use state-of-the-art computer monitoring systems at the concentrator, the crushing plant and the flotation circuit to coordinate inflows and optimize operations. Material with a copper grade over 0.35% is loaded onto an overland conveyor belt and sent to the milling circuit, where giant rotating crushers reduce the size of the rocks to approximately one-half of an inch. The ore is then sent to the ball mills, which grind it to the consistency of fine powder. The finely ground powder is agitated in a water and reagents solution and is then transported to flotation cells. Air is pumped into the cells to produce foam for floating the copper and molybdenum minerals while waste materials called tailings are separated. This copper-molybdenum bulk concentrate is then treated by inverse flotation, where molybdenum is floated and copper is depressed. The copper concentrate is shipped by rail to the smelter at Ilo and the molybdenum concentrate is packaged for shipment to customers. Sulfides under 0.35% copper are considered waste.
Tailings are sent to thickeners to recover water. The remaining tailings are sent to the Quebrada Honda dam, our principal tailings storage facility.
A major mill expansion was completed in 1999 and the eleventh primary mill began operations in January 2008. In December 2013, the high-pressure grinding roll was put in operation. At the end of 2016, the Larox filter press for molybdenum concentrate began operations. The overland primary crusher began operations in May 2018. The new tailings thickener began operations in September 2019.
Toquepala
Our Toquepala operations consist of an open-pit copper mine and two concentrators. We also refine copper at the SX-EW facility through a leaching process. Toquepala is located in southern Peru, 30 kilometers from Cuajone and 870 kilometers from Lima at an altitude of 3,220 meters above sea level. Access is by plane from Lima to the city of Tacna (1:40 hours) and then by the Pan-American highway to Camiara (1:20 hours) and by road to Toquepala (1 hour). Each concentrator has a milling capacity of 60,000 tons per day. The SX-EW facility has a production capacity of 56,000 tons per year of LME grade A copper cathodes. Overburden removal commenced in 1957 and ore production commenced in 1960. Our Toquepala operations utilize a conventional open-pit mining method to collect copper ore for further processing in our concentrators. The second concentrator began operations in the fourth quarter of 2018.
The table below contains production information for 2020, 2019 and 2018 for our Toquepala operations:
Key: kt = thousand tons
x = Stripping ratio obtained dividing waste by leachable material plus ore mined.
Copper and molybdenum grades are referred to as total copper grade and total molybdenum grade, respectively.
Geology
The Toquepala porphyry deposit is located on the western slopes of Cordillera Occidental in the southern-most region of the Andes mountains range of Peru and approximately 120 kilometers from the border with Chile. This region extends into Chile and is home to many of the world’s most significant known copper deposits. The deposit is part of a mineral district that contains two additional known deposits, Cuajone and Quellaveco. The deposit is in a territory with intrusive and eruptive activities of rhyolitic and andesitic rocks, which are 70 million years old (Cretaceous-Tertiary) and have created volcanic lava. The lava is composed of rhyolites, andesites and volcanic agglomerates with a western dip and at an altitude of 1,500 meters. These series are known as the Toquepala Group. Subsequently, different intrusive activities occurred that broke and smelted the rocks of the Toquepala Group. These intrusive activities resulted in diorites, granodiorites and dikes of porphyritic dacite. Toquepala has a simple mineralogy with regular copper grade distribution. Economic ore is found as disseminated sulfurs throughout the deposit as veinlets that replenish empty places or as small aggregates. Ore minerals include chalcopyrite (CuFeS2), chalcosine (Cu2S) and molybdenite (MoS2). A secondary enrichment zone is also present with thicknesses between 0 and 150 meters.
Mine Exploration
Exploration activities during the drill campaign in 2020 were as follows:
Concentrators
Our Toquepala concentrators use state-of-the-art computer monitoring systems to coordinate inflows and optimize operations. Material with a copper grade over 0.25% is loaded onto an overland conveyor belt and sent to the crushing circuit, where rotating crushers reduce the size of the rocks by approximately 85% to less than one-half of an inch. The ore is then sent to the rod and ball mills, which grind it in a mix with water to the consistency of fine powder. The finely ground powder mixed with water is then transported to flotation cells. Air is pumped into the cells producing a froth, which carries the copper mineral to the surface but not the waste rock, or tailings. The bulk concentrate with sufficient molybdenum content is processed to recover molybdenum by inverse flotation. This final copper concentrate with a content of approximately 26.5% of copper is filtered to reduce moisture to 8.5% or less. Concentrates are then shipped by rail to the Ilo smelter.
Tailings are sent to thickeners where water is recovered. The remaining tailings are sent to the Quebrada Honda dam, our principal tailings storage facility.
SX-EW Plant
The SX-EW facility at Toquepala produces grade A LME electrowon copper cathodes of 99.999% purity from solutions obtained by leaching low-grade ore stored at the Toquepala and Cuajone mines. The leach plant commenced operations in 1995 with a design capacity of 35,629 tons per year of copper cathodes. In 1999, the capacity was expanded to 56,000 tons per year.
This facility processes copper oxides from Cuajone and copper sulfides from Toquepala. Copper oxides from Cuajone with a copper grade higher than 0.520%; acid solubility index higher than 51%; and a cyanide solubility index higher than 25% are leached. At Toquepala, the copper sulfides cutoff grade is 0.080% and therefore, material with a total copper grade between 0.080% and 0.294% is leached. Copper in solution produced at Cuajone is sent to Toquepala through an eight-inch pipe laid alongside the Cuajone-Toquepala railroad track.
Plant and equipment are supported by a maintenance plan and a quality management system to assure good physical condition and high availability. The SX-EW plant management quality system (including leaching operations) has been audited periodically since 2002 by an external audit company and found to be in compliance with the requirements of ISO 9001-2008, OHSAS 18001-2007 and ISO 14001-2015 standards.
Processing Facilities-Ilo
Our Ilo smelter and refinery complex is located in the southern part of Peru, 17 kilometers north of the city of Ilo, 121 kilometers from Toquepala, 147 kilometers from Cuajone and 871 kilometers from the city of Lima. Access is by plane from Lima to Tacna (1:40 hours) and then by highway to the city of Ilo (2:00 hours). Additionally, we maintain a port facility in Ilo, from where we ship our products and receive supplies. Products shipped and supplies received are moved between Toquepala, Cuajone and Ilo on our industrial railroad.
Smelter
Our Ilo smelter produces copper anodes for the refinery we operate as part of the same facility. When the copper produced by the smelter exceeds the refinery’s capacity, the excess is sold to other refineries around the world. In 2007, we completed a major modernization of the smelter. The nominal installed capacity of the smelter is 1,200,000 tons of
copper concentrate per year. Copper concentrates from Toquepala and Cuajone are transported by railroad to the smelter, where they are smelted using an ISASMELT furnace, converters and anode furnaces to produce copper anodes with 99.7% copper. At the smelter, the concentrates are mixed with flux and other material and sent to the ISASMELT furnace producing a mixture of copper matte and slag, which is tapped through a taphole to either of two rotary holding furnaces, where these smelted phases will be separated. Copper matte contains approximately 63% copper. Copper matte is then sent to the four Pierce Smith converters, where the material is oxidized in two steps: (1) the iron sulfides in the matte are oxidized with oxygen enriched air and silica is added producing slag that is sent to the slag cleaning furnaces, and (2) the copper contained in the matte sulfides is then oxidized to produce blister copper, containing approximately 99.3% copper. The blister copper is refined in two anode furnaces by oxidation and sulfur is removed with compressed air injected into the bath. Finally, the oxygen content of the molten copper is adjusted by reduction by injecting liquefied petroleum gas with steam into the bath. Anodes, containing approximately 99.7% copper, are cast in two casting wheels. The smelter also can produce blister copper bars, especially when an anode furnace is undergoing general repairs.
The table below contains production information for 2020, 2019 and 2018 for our Ilo smelter plant:
Key: kt = thousand tons
The off gases from the smelter are treated to recover over 92% of the incoming sulfur received in the concentrates to produce 98.5% sulfuric acid. The gas stream from the smelter with 11.34% SO2 is split between two plants: The No. 1 acid plant (single absorption/single contact) and the No. 2 plant (double absorption/double contact). Approximately, 16% of the acid produced is used at our facilities with the balance sold to third parties. We anticipate that our internal usage will be over 80% when the Tia Maria project begins operation. The smelter also has two oxygen plants. Plant No. 1, with 272 tons per day of production capacity, and Plant No.2, with 1,045 tons per day of capacity.
In 2010, the Ilo smelter marine trestle started operation. This facility allows us to offload directly to offshore ships the sulfuric acid produced, avoiding hauling cargo through the city of Ilo. The 500 meter long marine trestle is the last part of the Ilo smelter modernization project. Currently, all overseas shipments of sulfuric acid are shipped using the marine trestle.
Refinery
The Ilo refinery consists of an electrolytic plant, a precious metal plant and a number of ancillary installations. The refinery is producing grade A copper cathode of 99.998% purity. The nominal capacity is 294,763 tons per year. Anodic slimes are recovered from the refining process and then sent to the precious metals facility to produce refined silver, refined gold and commercial grade selenium.
Anodes are suspended in tanks containing a solution of sulfuric acid and copper sulfate. A low voltage but high amperage electrical current is passed through the anodes, chemical solution and cathodes to dissolve copper which is initially deposited on very thin starting sheets until thickness is increased to produce high grade copper cathodes. During this process, silver, gold and other metals, including palladium, platinum and selenium, along with other impurities, settle to the bottom of the tank in the form of anodic slime. This anodic slime is processed in a precious metal plant where silver, gold and selenium are recovered.
The table below contains production information for 2020, 2019 and 2018 for our Ilo refinery and precious metals plants:
Key: kt = thousand tons
In addition to the processing facilities, the refinery has a production control section, a laboratory that provides sample analysis throughout the Company, a maintenance department, a desalinization plant and other support facilities.
Other facilities in Ilo include a coquina plant with a production capacity of 200,000 tons of seashells per year; this facility, however, has been declared in progressive closure. In addition, we had a lime plant with a capacity of 80,000 tons per year, which has suspended its operations. We also operate an industrial railroad to haul production and supplies between Toquepala, Cuajone and Ilo.
The industrial railroad’s main equipment includes locomotives of different types and rolling stock with different types of cars and capacities. The track runs in a single 214 kilometer standard gauge line and supports a 30-ton axle load. The total length of the track system is around 257 kilometers including main yards and sidings. The infrastructure includes 27 kilometers of track under tunnels and one concrete bridge. The industrial railroad includes a car repair shop which is responsible for maintaining and repairing the car fleet. Annual transported tonnage is approximately 5.9 million tons.
MEXICAN OPERATIONS
The map below indicates the approximate locations of our Mexican mines and processing facilities:
MEXICAN OPEN-PIT SEGMENT
Our Mexican open-pit segment operations combine two units of Minera Mexico, La Caridad and Buenavista, which include La Caridad and Buenavista mine complexes and smelting and refining plants and support facilities, which service both complexes.
The map below indicates the approximate location of, and access to, our Mexican open-pit mine complexes and our processing facilities:
We have ongoing maintenance and improvement programs to ensure the satisfactory performance of our equipment. We believe all our Mexican open-pit segment equipment is in good physical condition and suitable for our operations.
Buenavista
The Buenavista mining unit operates an open-pit copper mine, two concentrators and three SX-EW plants. It is located 100 air-kilometers northwest of La Caridad and 40 kilometers south of the Arizona, U.S. - Mexican border, at an altitude of 1,900 meters above sea level. It lies on the outskirts of the city of Cananea. Buenavista is connected by paved highways to the border city of Agua Prieta to the northeast, to the town of Nacozari in the southeast and to the town of
Imuris to the west. Buenavista is also connected by railway to Agua Prieta and Nogales. A municipal airport is located approximately 20 kilometers to the northeast of Buenavista.
In 2016 we concluded our $3.5 billion investment program in Mexico. The program included a third SX-EW plant, which was completed in June 2014 with a rated annual capacity of 120,000 tons of copper and a new concentrator, completed in 2015, with an annual copper production capacity of 188,000 tons. The program also included two molybdenum plants with a combined annual capacity of 4,600 tons. The first plant was completed in 2013 and the second in 2016. Additionally, the program included the Crushing, Conveying and Spreading System for Leachable Ore (Quebalix IV), which was completed on time and under budget and is currently operating steadily. This project will reduce mining costs and increase SX-EW copper recovery, allowing the Buenavista unit to reach its copper production capacity of 500,000 tons.
The original concentrator currently has a nominal milling capacity of 82,000 tons per day. The second concentrator began operations in 2015 with a nominal milling capacity of 100,000 tons per day. The SX-EW facilities have a cathode production capacity of 174,470 tons per year. The Buenavista ore body is considered one of the world’s largest porphyry copper deposits. Buenavista is the oldest continuously operated copper mine in North America, with operations dating back to 1899. High grade ore deposits in the district were mined exclusively using underground methods. The Anaconda Company acquired the property in 1917. In the early 1940s, Anaconda started developing the first open-pit in Buenavista. In 1990, through a public auction procedure, Minera Mexico acquired 100% of the Buenavista mining assets for $475 million. Buenavista is currently applying conventional open-pit mining methods to extract copper ore for further processing in the concentrator.
The following table contains production information for 2020, 2019 and 2018 for Buenavista:
Key: kt = thousand tons
x = Stripping ratio obtained dividing waste by leachable material plus ore mined.
The copper and molybdenum grade are total grade.
Geology
The Buenavista mining district lies on the southern cordilleran orogen, which extends from southern Mexico to northwestern United States. It also falls within the Basin and Range metallogenic province. Geological and structural features in the district are representative of large, disseminated-type porphyry copper deposits. A calcareous sedimentary sequence of lower Paleozoic age, which is lithologically correlated with a similar section in southeastern Arizona, uncomformably overlies Precambrian granite basement. The entire section was covered by volcanic rocks from the Mesozoic age and later and is intruded by deep seated granodiorite batholith from the Tertiary age, with further quartz monzonite porphyry differentiates from the Laramide age.
Mineralization in the district is extensive, covering a surface area of approximately 30 square kilometers. An early pegmatitic stage associated with bornite-chalcopyrite-molybdenite assemblage was followed by widespread flooding of hydrothermal solutions with quartz-pyrite-chalcopyrite. A pervasive quartz-sericite alteration is evident throughout the district’s igneous rock fabric.
An extensive and economically important zone of supergene enrichment, with disseminated and stockworks of chalcocite (Cu2S), developed below the iron oxide capping. This zone coincides with the topography and has an average thickness of 300 meters. A mixed zone of secondary and primary sulfides underlay the chalcocite blanket. The hypogene mineralization, principally chalcopyrite (CuFeS2), extensively underlies the ore body. Molybdenite occurs throughout the deposit and the content tends to increase with depth.
The Buenavista copper porphyry is considered world-class and unique. The deepest exploration results in the core of the deposit have confirmed a significant increase in copper grades. Similar porphyry copper deposits usually contain lower grades at depth. The district is also unique due to the occurrence of high-grade breccia pipes, which occur in clusters following the trend of the district.
Current dimensions of the mineralized ore body are 5x3 kilometers, and projects to more than one kilometer at depth. Given the geological and economic potential of the Buenavista porphyry copper deposit, it is expected that the operation can support a sizeable increase in copper production capacity.
Mine Exploration
In-fill core drilling was conducted in 2011 at the Buenavista zinc-copper-silver deposit, including directional drilling for geotechnical purposes. A deep drilling campaign was initiated in 2011 to explore the extent of the deposit at depth, drilling a total of 3,860 meters in 2012. For short-term mine planning, 6,652 meters were drilled to confirm copper grade and metallurgical recoveries. Also in 2011, a condemnation drilling program was initiated to define areas for future infrastructure, and for leach and waste dump deposits. A total of 28,369 meters of core drilling were completed in 2011. Additionally, a geohydrology program was initiated in 2011 to explore the possibility of groundwater sources within the mine limits, and a total of 29,750 meters of diamond drilling were drilled in 2012. In addition, 3,797 meters were drilled for water monitoring wells. We did not conduct a drilling campaign in 2013. In 2014, we performed a drilling program of 20,000 meters in order to verify the reserves. In 2015, we complied with our drilling program target of 15,000 meters to define reserves and to confirm copper and molybdenum grades. In 2018, we drilled 4,434 meters to further define reserves and confirm grades. In 2019, in accordance with the long-term mine plan, 5,549 meters of diamond drilling were drilled to confirm the continuity of the deposit mineralization. In 2020, we drilled 32,218 meters in accordance with the mine plan.
Concentrator
Buenavista uses state-of-the-art computer monitoring systems at the concentrators, the crushing plant and the flotation circuit in order to coordinate inflows and optimize operations. In the original concentrator, material with a copper grade over 0.38% is loaded onto trucks and sent to the milling circuit, where giant rotating crushers reduce the size of the ore to approximately one-half of an inch. The ore is then sent to the ball mills, which grind it to the consistency of fine powder. The finely ground powder is agitated in a water and reagents solution and is then transported to flotation cells. Air is pumped into the cells producing a froth, which carries the copper mineral to the surface but not the waste rock, or
tailings. Recovered copper, with the consistency of froth, is filtered and dried to produce copper concentrates with an average copper content of approximately 24%. Concentrates are then shipped by rail to the smelter at La Caridad.
In the second concentrator, material with a copper grade over 0.555% is sent to a three-phase milling circuit, where the ore size is reduced to approximately one-half inch. The ore is then sent to a circuit of six ball mills, which grind it to the consistency of fine powder. The finely ground powder is agitated in a water and reagents solution and is then transported to flotation cells. Air is pumped into the cells producing a froth, which carries the copper mineral to the surface but not the waste rock, or tailings. Recovered copper, with the consistency of froth, is filtered and dried to produce copper concentrates with an average copper content of approximately 24%. Concentrates are then sent by trucks or by railroad to the La Caridad smelter or to the Guaymas port, at Sonora, for export.
As part of the expansion program for this unit, in 2013 we completed the construction of the first molybdenum plant with an annual production capacity of 2,000 tons of molybdenum contained in concentrate. The plant was designed to process 1,500 tons of copper-molybdenum concentrates per day with a content recovery of approximately 80% copper and 50% molybdenum. The molybdenum plant consists of thickeners, homogenizer tanks, flotation cells, column cells and a holo-flite dryer. The second molybdenum plant was designed to process 3,040 tons of copper-molybdenum concentrates per day for a content recovery between 80% and 87% for copper and 60% for molybdenum. The plant generated its first production lot in July 2016 and fully initiated operations in November 2016.
SX-EW Plant
The Buenavista unit operates a leaching facility and three SX-EW plants. All copper ore with a grade lower than the mill cut-off grade of 0.38%, but higher than 0.25%, is delivered to the leach dumps. A cycle of leaching and resting occurs for approximately five years in the run-of-mine dumps and three years for the crushed leach material.
There are three irrigation systems for the dumps and eleven dams for the pregnant leach solution (PLS). Plant I has four solvent extraction tanks with a nominal capacity of 18,000 liters per minute of PLS and 54 electrowinning cells and has a daily production capacity of 30 tons of copper cathodes with 99.999% purity. Plant II has five trains of solvent extraction with a nominal capacity of 62,000 liters per minute of PLS and 220 cells distributed in two bays and has a daily production capacity of 120 tons of copper cathodes with 99.9% purity. Plant III has three trains of solvent extraction with a nominal capacity of 167,100 liters per minute of PLS and 270 cells distributed in two bays and has a daily production capacity of 328 tons of copper cathodes with 99.9% purity. The plant produces copper cathodes of LME grade A.
La Caridad
The La Caridad complex includes an open-pit mine, concentrator, smelter, copper refinery, precious metals refinery, rod plant, SX-EW plant, lime plant and two sulfuric acid plants.
La Caridad mine and mill are located about 23 kilometers southeast of the town of Nacozari in northeastern Sonora at an altitude of 2,000 meters above sea level. Nacozari is about 264 kilometers northeast of the Sonora state capital of Hermosillo and 121 kilometers south of the U.S.-Mexico border. Nacozari is connected by paved highway with Hermosillo and Agua Prieta and by rail with the international port of Guaymas, and the Mexican and United States rail systems. An airstrip with a reported runway length of 2,500 meters is located 36 kilometers north of Nacozari, less than one kilometer away from the La Caridad copper smelter and refinery. The smelter and the sulfuric acid plants, as well as the refineries and rod plant, are located approximately 24 kilometers from the mine. Access is by paved highway and by railroad.
The concentrator began operations in 1979; the molybdenum plant was added in 1982 and the smelter in 1986; the first sulfuric acid plant was added in 1988 and the SX-EW plant in 1995; the second sulfuric acid plant was added in 1997 and the copper refinery in 1997; the rod plant was added in 1998 and the precious metals refinery in 1999; and the dust and effluents plant was incorporated in 2012.
The table below contains production information for 2020, 2019 and 2018 for La Caridad:
Key: kt = thousand tons
x = Stripping ratio obtained dividing waste by leachable material plus ore mined
The copper and molybdenum grade are total grade.
Geology
The La Caridad deposit is a typical porphyry copper and molybdenum deposit, similar to that found in the southwestern basin of United States. The La Caridad mine uses a conventional open-pit mining method. The ore body is at the top of a mountain, which gives La Caridad the advantage of a relatively low waste-stripping ratio, natural pit drainage and relatively short haul for both ore and waste. The mining method involves drilling, blasting, loading and hauling of ore mill to the primary crushers and leach materials and waste to dumps.
La Caridad deposit is located in northeastern Sonora, Mexico. The deposit is situated near the crest of the Sierra Juriquipa, about 23 kilometers southeast of the town of Nacozari, Sonora, Mexico. The Sierra Juriquipa rises to elevations of around 2,000 meters in the vicinity of La Caridad and is one of the many north-trending mountain ranges in Sonora that form a southern extension of the basin and range province.
The La Caridad porphyry copper-molybdenum deposit occurs exclusively in felsic to intermediate intrusive igneous rocks and associated breccias. Host rocks include diorite and granodiorite. These rocks are intruded by a quartz monzonite porphyry stock and by numerous breccia masses, which contain fragments of all the older rock types.
Supergene enrichment consists of complete to partial chalcosite (Cu2S) replacement of chalcopyrite (CuFeS2). The zone of supergene enrichment occurs as a flat and tabular blanket with an average diameter of 1,700 meters and thickness generally between 0 and 90 meters.
Economic ore is found as disseminated sulfurs within the central part of the deposit. Sulfide-filled breccia cavities are most abundant in the intrusive breccia. This breccia-cavity mineralization occurs as sulfide aggregates that have
crystallized in the spaces separating breccia clasts. Near the margins of the deposit, mineralization occurs almost exclusively in veinlets. Ore minerals include chalcopyrite (CuFeS2), chalcosite (Cu2S) and molybdenite (MoS2).
Mine Exploration
The La Caridad ore body has been mined for over 35 years. The extent of the model area is approximately 6,000 meters by 4,000 meters with elevations ranging from 750 to 1,800 meters. Seventeen drilling campaigns have been conducted on the property since 1968. These campaigns drilled a total of 3,349 drill holes: 1,186 were diamond drill holes and 2,163 were reverse circulation. We have also drilled some hammer and percussion drill holes.
In 2008, La Caridad finished a large exploration program of 50,000 meters. The target was to reach the 900 level to reduce the drilling space; define the copper and molybdenum mineralization continuity; and carry out metallurgical testing for the flotation and leaching processes. There was no exploration program in 2009, 2011 and 2013. In 2012, we drilled 10,000 meters and further defined the extent of copper and molybdenum mineralization. From 2014 to 2017 we drilled 96 diamond drill holes equivalent to 38,984 meters to define a high-grade ore body located on the south western edge of the pit (Bella Union location). In 2018, we drilled 18 diamond drill holes equivalent to 5,132 meters at the Bella Union location. In 2019, we drilled 15 diamond drill holes at the La Caridad pit and 6 diamond drill holes at the Bella Union location, for a total of 3,790 meters. In 2020, we drilled 44 diamond drill holes at the La Caridad pit for a total of 9,453 meters.
Concentrator
La Caridad uses state-of-the-art computer monitoring systems at the concentrator, the crushing plant and the flotation circuit to coordinate inflows and optimize operations. The concentrator has a current capacity of 94,500 tons of ore per day.
Ore extracted from the mine with a copper grade over 0.30% is sent to the concentrator and processed into copper concentrates and molybdenum concentrates. The copper concentrates are sent to the smelter and the molybdenum concentrate is sold to a Mexican customer. The molybdenum recovery plant has a capacity of 2,000 tons per day of copper-molybdenum concentrates. The lime plant has a capacity of 340 tons of finished product per day.
SX-EW Plant
Approximately 919.7 million tons of leaching ore with an average grade of approximately 0.241% copper was extracted from the La Caridad open-pit mine and deposited in leaching dumps through December 31, 2020. All copper ore with a grade lower than the mill cut-off grade 0.30%, but higher than 0.15% copper, is delivered to the leaching dumps. In 1995, we completed the construction of a SX-EW facility at La Caridad that has allowed us to process this ore and certain leach ore reserves that were not mined; this has led to a subsequent reduction in our copper production costs. The SX-EW facility has an annual design capacity of 21,900 tons of copper cathodes.
The plant has three trains of solvent extraction with a nominal capacity of 2,400 cubic meters per hour and has 94 electrowinning cells, which are distributed in a single electrolytic bay. The plant has a daily production capacity of 65 tons of copper cathodes with 99.999% purity.
Processing Facilities-La Caridad
Our La Caridad complex includes a smelter, an electrolytic copper refinery, a precious metal refinery, a copper rod plant and an effluent and dust treatment plant. The distance between this complex and the La Caridad mine is approximately 24 kilometers.
Smelter
Copper concentrates from Buenavista, Santa Barbara, Charcas and La Caridad are transported by rail and truck to the La Caridad smelter where they are processed and cast into copper anodes of 99.2% purity. Sulfur dioxide off-gases
collected from the flash furnace, the El Teniente converter and conventional converters are processed into sulfuric acid at two sulfuric acid plants. Approximately 2% to 3% of this acid is used by our SX-EW plants and the balance is sold to third parties.
All of the anodes produced in the smelter are sent to the La Caridad copper refinery. The actual installed capacity of the smelter is 1,000,000 tons per year, a capacity that is sufficient to treat all the concentrates of La Caridad and almost 40.5% of total production of the OMIMSA I and OMIMSA II concentrators from Buenavista. In 2010, the smelter also began processing concentrates from the IMMSA mines, as we closed the San Luis Potosi smelter.
Other facilities in the smelter include two sulfuric acid plants with capacities of 2,625 and 2,135 tons per day, three oxygen plants each with a production capacity of 275 tons per day; and one power turbine which generates 11.5 MWh.
Refinery
La Caridad includes an electrolytic copper refinery that uses permanent cathode technology. The installed capacity of the refinery is 300,000 tons per year. The refinery consists of an anode plant with a preparation area, an electrolytic plant with an electrolytic cell house with 1,115 cells and 32 liberator cells, two cathode stripping machines, an anode washing machine, a slime treatment plant and a number of ancillary installations. The refinery is producing grade A (LME) and grade 1 (COMEX) copper cathode of 99.99% purity. Anodic slimes are recovered from the refining process and sent to the slime treatment plant, where additional copper is extracted. The slimes are then filtered, dried, packed and shipped to the La Caridad precious metals refinery to produce silver and gold.
Precious Metals Plant
The operations at the precious metal refinery begin with the reception of anodic slimes, which are dried in a steam dryer. After this, the dried slime is smelted and a gold and silver alloy is obtained, which is known as Dore. The precious metal refinery plant has a hydrometallurgical stage and a pyrometallurgical stage, in addition to a steam dryer, Dore casting system, Kaldo furnace, 20 electrolytic cells in the silver refinery, one induction furnace for fine silver, one silver ingot casting system and two reactors for obtaining fine gold. The process ends with the refining of the gold and silver alloy. We also recover commercial selenium from the gas produced by the Kaldo furnace process.
Copper Rod Plant
A rod plant at the La Caridad complex began operations in 1998 and reached its full annual operating capacity of 150,000 tons in 1999. The plant is producing eight-millimeter copper rods with a purity of 99.99%.
Effluent and Dust Treatment Plant
In 2012, we started operating a dust and effluent plant with a treatment capacity of 5,000 tons of smelter dusts per year, which will produce 1,500 tons of copper by-products and 2,500 tons of lead sulfates per year. This plant is designed to reduce dust emissions from La Caridad metallurgical complex.
The table below contains production information for 2020, 2019 and 2018 for the La Caridad processing facilities:
Key: kt = thousand tons
Kg = kilograms
MEXICAN IMMSA UNIT
Our IMMSA unit (underground mining poly-metallic division) operates five underground mining complexes situated in central and northern Mexico. It produces zinc, lead, copper, silver and gold. These complexes include industrial processing facilities for zinc, lead, copper and silver. All of IMMSA’s mining facilities employ exploitation systems and conventional equipment. We believe that all the plants and equipment are in satisfactory operating condition. IMMSA’s principal mining facilities are Charcas, Santa Barbara, San Martin, Santa Eulalia and Taxco.
The table below contains production information for 2020, 2019 and 2018 for our Mexican IMMSA unit:
kt = thousand tons
(*)
Weighted average annual operating days based on total material mined and milled in the four active mines: Charcas, Santa Barbara, Santa Eulalia and San Martin.
Charcas
The Charcas mining complex is located 111 kilometers north of the city of San Luis Potosi in the State of San Luis Potosi, Mexico. Charcas is connected to the state capital by a paved highway of 130 kilometers. It was discovered in 1573 and operations in the 20th century began in 1911. The complex includes three underground mines (San Bartolo, Rey-Reina and La Aurora) and one flotation plant that produces zinc, lead and copper concentrates with significant amounts of silver. The Charcas mine is characterized by low operating costs and good quality ores and is situated near the zinc refinery. Regarding its geology, economic ore is found as replacement sulfurs in carbonates host rock. The ore mineralogy is comprised predominantly of calcopyrite (CuFeS2), sphalerite (ZnS), galena (PbS) and silver minerals as diaphorite (Pb2Ag3Sb3S8). The Charcas mine is now Mexico’s largest producer of zinc.
In October 2015, an earthquake damaged some underground facilities as well as the access to the mine. Consequently, normal mine operations were interrupted. In 2016, operations took place normally and a production compliance level of 97% was reached.
Mine exploration in 2015 included 32,144 meters of surface drilling and 20,536 meters from underground stations, which increased our reserves by 3,089,797 tons. For 2016, it included 20,000 meters of surface drilling and 20,754 meters from underground stations, which increased our reserves by 1,778,728 tons. For 2017, it included 5,999 meters of surface drilling and 23,098 meters from underground stations, which increased our reserves by 2,004,577 tons. For 2018, 11,757 meters of diamond drilling and 20,285 meters from underground stations were drilled, which increased our reserves by 2,282,322 tons. For 2019, 20,105 meters of diamond drilling and 9,012 meters from
underground stations were drilled, which increased our reserves by 2,502,204 tons. In 2020, we drilled 10,609 meters from underground stations, which increased our reserves by 2,356,499 tons. For 2021, 15,364 meters of diamond drilling are planned to identify additional reserves.
Santa Barbara
The Santa Barbara mining complex is located approximately 26 kilometers southwest of the city of Hidalgo del Parral in southern Chihuahua, Mexico. The area can be reached via paved road from Hidalgo del Parral, a city on a federal highway. It was discovered in 1536 and mining activities in the 20th century began in 1913. Santa Barbara includes three main underground mines (San Diego, Segovedad and Tecolotes) as well as a flotation plant and produces lead, copper and zinc concentrates, with significant amounts of silver.
Regarding its geology, economic ore minerals include sphalerite (ZnS), marmatite (ZnFeS), galena (PbS), chalcopyrite (CuFeS2) and tetrahedrite (CuFe12Sb4S13). Due to the variable characteristics of the ore bodies, four types of mining methods are used: shrinkage stoping, long-hole drilled open stoping, cut-and-fill stoping and horizontal bench stoping. The ore, once crushed, is processed in the flotation plant to produce concentrates.
Mine exploration in 2015 included 5,977 meters of surface drilling and 16,609 meters from underground stations, which increased our reserves by 1,135,750 tons. For 2016, it included 14,300 meters from underground stations, which increased our reserves by 1,416,756 tons. For 2017, it included 2,571 meters of surface drilling and 11,838 meters from underground stations, which increased our reserves by 613,872 tons. For 2018, 10,769 meters from underground stations were drilled, which increased our reserves by 418,345 tons. For 2019, we achieved 11,070 meters of surface drilling and 208 meters from the underground stations, which increased our reserves by 2,160,062 tons. In 2020, we drilled 19,873 meters from underground stations, which increased our reserves by 2,606,888 tons. For 2021, 37,110 meters of diamond drilling are planned to identify additional reserves.
Santa Eulalia
The mining district of Santa Eulalia is located in the central part of the state of Chihuahua, Mexico, approximately 26 kilometers east of the city of Chihuahua, and is connected to the city of Chihuahua by a paved road (highway no. 45). It was discovered in 1590 but exploitation began in 1870. The main mines in Santa Eulalia are The Buena Tierra mine and the San Antonio mine.
Regarding its geology, the majority of mineralization corresponds to ore skarns: silicoaluminates of calcium, iron and manganese with variable quantities of lead, zinc, copper and iron sulfides. Economic ore include sphalerite (ZnS), galena (PbS) and small quantities of pyrargyrite (Ag3SbS3).
Mine exploration in 2015 included 3,014 meters from underground stations, which increased our reserves by 64,800 tons. In 2017, exploration included 936 meters from underground stations, which increased our reserves by 60,525 tons. In 2018, 1,930 meters from underground stations were drilled, which increased our reserves by 249,930 tons. In 2019, we achieved 2,207 meters of surface drilling and 10,214 meters from the underground stations, which increased our reserves by 409,733 tons.
In the first quarter of 2020, the Santa Eulalia mine temporarily suspended its operations due to flooding. We are currently evaluating different options to supply the Santa Eulalia concentrator. We are also evaluating drainage at the mining facilities and determining if it is possible to sell the water for agricultural or other uses.
San Martin
The San Martin mining complex is located in the municipality of Sombrerete in the western part of the state of Zacatecas, Mexico. It was discovered in 1555 and mining operations in the 20th century began in 1949. The complex includes an underground mine and a flotation plant. The ore body contains lead, copper and zinc concentrates, with significant amounts of silver.
After eleven years of an illegal stoppage, we resumed control of the San Martin mine in August 2018. The San Martin facilities deteriorated during this period and we undertook a major renovation to restart operations in the second quarter of 2019, with a capital budget of $97.7 million. Production at this mine was restored to full capacity at the end of the third quarter of 2019.
Mine exploration in 2019 included 1,304 meters of surface drilling and 4,315 meters from underground stations, which increased our reserves by 374,683 tons. In 2020, we drilled 5,414 meters from underground stations, which increased our reserves by 519,761 tons. For 2021, 10,851 meters of diamond drilling are planned to identify additional reserves.
Taxco
The Taxco mining complex has been on strike since July 2007. It is located on the outskirts of the city of Taxco in the northern part of the state of Guerrero, Mexico. It was discovered in 1519 and mining activities in the 20th century began in 1918. The complex includes several underground mines (San Antonio, Guerrero and Remedios) and a flotation plant. The ore contains lead and zinc concentrates, with some amounts of gold and silver.
There was no mine exploration drilling at Taxco during the three-year period ended December 31, 2020 due to the strikes. Please see Note 13 “Commitments and Contingencies-Labor matters” to the consolidated financial statements.
Processing Facilities-San Luis Potosi
Our San Luis Potosi electrolytic zinc refinery is located in the city of San Luis Potosi, in the state of San Luis Potosi, Mexico. The city of San Luis Potosi is connected to our refinery by a major highway.
Zinc Refinery
The San Luis Potosi electrolytic zinc refinery was built in 1982 and was designed to produce 105,000 tons of refined zinc per year by treating up to 200,000 tons of zinc concentrate from our own mines, principally Charcas, which is located 113 kilometers from the refinery. The refinery produces special high-grade zinc (99.995%), high-grade zinc (over 99.9%) and zinc-based alloys with aluminum, lead, copper or magnesium in varying quantities and sizes depending on market demand. Refined silver and gold production is obtained from tolling services provided by a third party mining company.
The electrolytic zinc refinery has an acid plant, a steam recovery boiler and a roaster. There is also a calcine processing area with five leaching stages: neutral, hot acid, intermediate acid, acid, purified fourth and jarosite, as well as two stages for solution purifying.
The table below contains production information for 2020, 2019 and 2018 for our San Luis Potosi zinc refinery:
kt = thousand tons
Nueva Rosita Coal and Coke Complex
The Nueva Rosita coal and coke complex began operations in 1924 and is located in the state of Coahuila, Mexico, on the outskirts of the city of Nueva Rosita near the Texas border. It includes (a) an underground coal mine, which has been
closed since 2006; (b) an open-pit mine with a yearly capacity of approximately 350,000 tons of coal; (c) a coal washing plant with a capacity of 900,000 tons per year that produces high quality clean coal; and d) a re-engineered and modernized 21 ovens coke facility capable of producing 100,000 tons of coke per year (metallurgical, nut and fine) of which, 95,000 tons are metallurgical coke. The complex also has a by-product plant to clean the coke gas oven in which tar, ammonium sulfate and light crude oil are recovered and two boilers, which produce 80,000 pounds of steam that is used in the by-products plant. In September 2017, a decision was made by the Company to close the coke plant and to initiate the cleaning and remediation process with a current budget of $14.0 million. As of December 31, 2020, expenses totaled $6.4 million.
On February 19, 2020, the Company announced the decision to return the underground coal mine, (the Olivo concession), which had been closed since 2006, to the Mexican government in response to a request of the President of Mexico to resume efforts to locate the remains of miners lost in a 2006 mining accident. On February 20, 2020 the Company presented the offer to return the concession to the General Direction of Mines. On September 3, 2020, the authorities accepted the offer.
Carbon mine exploration
Although, an intensive diamond drilling exploration program has identified two additional areas, Esperanza with a potential for more than 30 million tons of “in place” mineralized coal and Guayacan with a potential for 15 million tons of “in place” mineralized coal, all of which could be used for a future coal-fired power plant; in July 2019, the Company decided to suspend coal mining operations.
The table below contains production information for 2020, 2019 and 2018 for our Nueva Rosita coal and coke complex:
kt = thousand tons
ORE RESERVES
Ore reserves are the estimated quantities of proven and probable material that may be economically mined and processed for extraction of their mineral content at the time of reserve determination. “Proven” (measured) reserves are reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (b) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed samplings; and (c) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well-established. “Probable” (indicated) reserves are reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling, and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven (measured) reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. “Mineralized material,” on the other hand, is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average grade of metal(s). Such a deposit does not qualify as a reserve until legal and economic feasibility are concluded based upon a comprehensive evaluation of unit costs, grade, recoveries and other material factors.
Our proven and probable ore reserve estimates are based on engineering evaluations of assay values derived from the sampling of drill holes and other openings. We believe that the samplings taken are spaced at intervals close enough and
the geological characteristics of the deposits are sufficiently well defined to render the estimates reliable. The ore reserve estimates include assessments of the resource, mining and metallurgy, as well as economic, marketing, legal, environmental, governmental, social and other necessary considerations.
Our Peruvian operations, including the Toquepala and Cuajone reserves, are classified into proven (measured), probable (indicated) and possible (inferred) categories based on a Relative Confidence Bound Index (“RCB Index”) that measures our level of geologic knowledge and confidence in each block. The RCB index is a measure of relative confidence in the block grade estimate. This approach combines the local variability of the composites used to krig a block with the kriging variance and incorporates the use of confidence intervals in measuring uncertainty of the block estimates relative to each other. The final resource classification is then based on the distribution of these RCB values for blocks above 0.05% copper. It is the distribution that is used to find the breaks between proven/probable and probable/possible.
Our Mexican operations, including the Buenavista and La Caridad reserves, are calculated using a mathematical block model and applying the MineSight software system. The estimated grades per block are classified as proven and probable. These grades are calculated applying a three-dimensional interpolation procedure and the inverse distance squared. Likewise, the quadrant method or spherical search is implemented to limit the number of composites that will affect the block’s interpolated value. The composites data is derived from the geological exploration of the ore body. In order to classify the individual blocks in the model, a thorough geostatistical variogram analysis is conducted, taking into consideration the principal characteristics of the deposit. Based on this block model classification, and with the implementation of the Lerch-Grossman algorithm, and the MineSight Pit Optimizer procedure, mineable reserves are determined. The calculated proven and probable reserves include those blocks that are economically feasible to mine by open-pit method within a particular mine design.
For the IMMSA unit, the basis for reserve estimations are sampling of mining operations and drilling exploration, geographical and topographic surveys, tracking down all the foregoing in the corresponding maps, measurement, calculation and interpretation based on the maps and reports from the mines, the mills and/or smelters. Mineral reserves are mineral stock which is estimated for extraction, to exploit if necessary, to sell or utilize economically, all or in part, taking into consideration the quotations, subsidies, costs, availability of treatment plants and other conditions that we estimate will prevail in the period for which reserves are being calculated. The reserves are divided into proven (85% reliable or more according to statistical studies) and probable (70% - 80% reliable or more according to statistical studies) categories according to their level of reliability and availability. In order to comply with SEC regulations, proven reserves is a classification that can only be used for such mineral found on top of the last level of the mine (either mineral up to 15 meters below the last level or below the first 15 meters only with sufficient drilling (25 or 30 meters between each drill)).
Our engineering department reviews reserve computations in detail on an annual basis. In addition, our engineering department reviews the computation when changes in assumptions occur. Changes can occur for price or cost assumptions, results in field drilling or new geotechnical parameters. We also engage third party consultants to review mine planning procedures.
Pursuant to SEC guidance, the reserves information in this report are calculated using average metals prices over the most recent three years unless otherwise stated. We refer to these three-year average metals prices as “current prices.” Our current prices for copper are calculated using prices quoted by COMEX, and our current prices for molybdenum are calculated according to Platt’s Metals Week. Unless otherwise stated, the reserve estimates in this report use $2.82 per pound for copper and $10.66 per pound for molybdenum, both current prices as of December 31, 2020. The current prices for copper and molybdenum were $2.82 and $10.50 as of December 31, 2019 and $2.64 and $8.88 as of December 31, 2018, respectively.
For internal ore reserve estimation, our management uses long-term metal price assumptions for copper and molybdenum, which are intended to approximate average prices over the long term. As of December 31, 2020, we considered $3.00 per pound of copper and $9.00 per pound of molybdenum. As of December 31, 2019, we considered $2.90 per pound of copper and $7.50 per pound of molybdenum.
The average metal prices over the last 10 and 15-year periods and the continued positive outlook for these metals have led us to use these prices. For other forecast and planning purposes, particularly related to merger and acquisition activities, our management considers other price scenarios. These changes, however, do not affect the preparation of our financial statements.
For the years 2020, 2019 and 2018, we have used reserve estimates based on current average prices for the most recent three years then ended to determine amortization of mine development and intangible assets.
We periodically reevaluate estimates of our ore reserves, which represent our estimate as to the amount of unmined copper remaining in our existing mine locations that can be produced and sold at a profit. These estimates are based on engineering evaluations derived from samples of drill holes and other openings, combined with assumptions about copper market prices and production costs at each of our mines.
The persons responsible for ore reserve calculations are as follows:
Peruvian open-pit:
Cuajone mine - Julio Sagua Canqui, Mine Engineering Superintendent
Toquepala mine - Wilbert Perez, Mine Engineering Superintendent
Tia Maria project:
Jaime Arana Murriel, Investment Projects Leaching Manager
Mexican open-pit:
La Caridad Mine - Víctor Manuel Morales Medina, Operations Director
Buenavista mine - Jesus Molinares, Engineering and Mine Planning Superintendent
IMMSA unit:
Santa Barbara - Raul Guerrero Valdez, Manager
Charcas - Juan Jose Aguilar, Planning and Control Superintendent
Santa Eulalia - Primitivo Juarez Mendoza, Geology Manager
Taxco - Jorge Mario Espinosa, Manager
San Martin - Jose Leobardo Palomo Lopez, Manager
El Arco project:
Michelle P. Cerecer A., Planning Engineer (with support of Hexagon Mining Inc.)
El Pilar project:
Michelle P. Cerecer A., Planning Engineer (with support of Hexagon Mining Inc.)
Pilares project:
Michelle P. Cerecer A., Planning Engineer (with support of Hexagon Mining Inc.)
On October 31, 2018, the SEC adopted new technical disclosure requirements applicable to companies engaged in material mining operations, including royalty companies. These new rules are based on the Committee for Mineral Reserves International Reporting Standards (CRIRSCO) and will replace the SEC Industry Guide 7. The new rules are effective for the fiscal year beginning on or after January 1, 2021. The Company has designed an implementation plan and formed a cross-functional implementation team that include external mining experts as required by the rule. This team is performing a completeness assessment of the Company’s mining operations to establish new policies, procedures and internal controls as mandated by the new standard.
For more information regarding our reserve estimates, please see Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates-Ore Reserves.”
Ore Reserves Estimated at Current Prices:
The table below provides details on our estimated proven and probable copper and molybdenum reserves as of December 31, 2020 based on average market prices for the last three-year period, in accordance with SEC guidance:
kt = Thousand tons
W= Waste, L= Leachable material; O= Ore.
(1)The Cuajone, Toquepala, Buenavista and La Caridad concentrator recoveries calculated for these reserves were 83.76%, 87.24%, 82.60%, and 81.13%, respectively, obtained by using recovery formulas according to the different milling capacity and geo-metallurgical zones.
(2)The IMMSA unit includes the Charcas, Santa Barbara, San Martin, Santa Eulalia and Taxco mines. Zinc and lead contained in ore reserves are as follows:
(3)Copper contained in ore reserves for open-pit mines is (i) the product of sulfide ore reserves and the average copper grade proven plus (ii) the product of sulfide ore reserves and the average copper grade probable plus (iii) the product of in-pit leachable reserves and the average copper grade. Copper contained in ore reserves for underground mines is the product of sulfide ore reserves and the average copper grade.
Metal Price Sensitivity:
In preparing the sensitivity analysis, we recalculated our reserves based on the assumption that current average metal prices were 20% higher and 20% lower, respectively, than the actual current average prices for year-end 2020. Reserve results of this sensitivity analysis are not proportional to the increase or decrease in metal price assumptions.
(1)Copper contained in ore reserves for open-pit mines is (i) the product of sulfide ore reserves and the average copper grade proven plus (ii) the product of sulfide ore reserves and the average copper grade probable plus (iii) the product of in-pit leachable reserves and the average copper grade. Copper contained in ore reserves for underground mines is the product of sulfide ore reserves and the average copper grade.
Internal Ore Reserves Estimates:
The table below provides details on our proven and probable copper and molybdenum reserves as of December 31, 2020, which are estimated based on long-term price assumptions of $3.00 per pound of copper, $9.00 per pound of molybdenum and $19.00 per ounce of silver. As discussed on page 54, the internal ore reserve estimates as presented are not compliant with SEC requirements, given that long-term price assumptions differ from the current prices used pursuant to SEC guidance. These internal ore reserve estimates do not affect the preparation of our financial statements.
(kt) = Thousand tons
W= Waste, L= Leachable material; O= Ore.
(1)The IMMSA unit includes the Charcas, Santa Barbara, San Martin, Santa Eulalia and Taxco mines. Zinc and lead contained in ore reserves are as follows:
Copper contained in ore reserves for open-pit mines is (i) the product of sulfide ore reserves and the average copper grade plus (ii) the product of in-pit leachable reserves and the average grade of copper. Copper contained in ore reserves for underground mines is the product of sulfide ore reserves and the average copper grade.
OVERVIEW OF BLOCK MODEL RECONCILIATION PROCESS
We apply the following block model to mill reconciliation procedure.
The following stages are identified at the Cuajone, Toquepala, Buenavista and La Caridad mines:
1.The mine geologists gather the necessary monthly statistical data from our information system (“SRP”), which provides ore tons milled and ore grades in the concentrator.
2.Mined areas are topographically determined and related boundaries are built.
3.Using the “interactive planner” option in our mining software (MineSight), ore tons and grades are calculated inside mined areas over the block model. At this point the current cut-off grade is considered.
4.In the final stage, accumulated tons mined, weighted average grade for ore material and leach is compared to data coming from our SRP system.
Tonnage and grade reconciliation for 2020 are as follows:
If the estimation error appears greater than 3%, a detailed evaluation is conducted to review the differences, which normally could result in more in-fill drilling, to better understand the geological characteristics (grade, rock type, mineralization and alteration) and the spacing of drill holes that are considered in the ore body zone.
AVERAGE DRILL-HOLE SPACING
The following is the average drill-hole spacing for proven and probable sulfide reserves as of December 31, 2020:
EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
We are engaged in ongoing extensive exploration to locate additional ore bodies in Peru, Mexico, Argentina, Ecuador and Chile. We also conduct exploration in the areas of our current mining operations. We invested $32.6 million on exploration programs in 2020, $30.0 million in 2019 and $29.6 million in 2018 and we expect to spend approximately $61.2 million on exploration programs in 2021.
Currently, we directly control 59,252 hectares and 503,104 hectares of exploration concessions in Peru and Mexico, respectively. We also currently hold 229,312 hectares, 27,353 hectares and 7,299 hectares of exploration concessions in Argentina, Chile and Ecuador, respectively.
Peru
Los Chancas. This property, located in the department of Apurimac in southern Peru, is a copper and molybdenum porphyry deposit. Current estimates indicate the presence of 545 million tons of mineralized material with a copper content of 0.59%, molybdenum content of 0.04% and 0.039 grams of gold per ton and 181 million tons of mineralized leachable material with a total copper content of 0.357%. In 2019 and 2020, we developed social and environmental improvements for local communities. In 2021, we plan to continue with these activities and to conclude the environmental impact assessment of the project.
Michiquillay. This property, located in the district of La Encañada, in the province and department of Cajamarca in northern Peru, is a copper porphyry deposit. In February 2018, we won the public bidding process for the project, and in June 2018 we signed the acquisition contract with the Peruvian government. In 2019, we developed social and environmental programs for the local communities and in 2020, we are concluding the semi-detailed environmental impact assessment. This will allow us to begin a 50,000-meter diamond drilling program in 2021 to verify and update the estimated mineralized materials of the project. We also plan to continue developing social programs for the local communities.
Other Peruvian Prospects. In 2020, we drilled 547 meters to complete a 13,000-meter diamond drilling program to explore various geochemical and geophysical anomalies. The results obtained indicate an iron system with low contents of disseminated copper.
For 2021, we plan to conduct a diamond drilling program of 15,500 meters at four prospects in southern Peru that have shown evidence of copper porphyry deposits. Additionally, we will continue conducting several prospection programs at other Peruvian metallogenic zones, which were identified in 2020.
Mexico
In addition to exploration and drilling programs at existing mines, we are currently conducting exploration to locate mineral deposits at various other sites in Mexico. The following are some of the more significant exploration projects:
Buenavista-Zinc. The Buenavista-Zinc site is located in the state of Sonora, Mexico and is part of the northwest Buenavista ore body. It is a skarn deposit containing zinc, copper, silver and lead sulfide mineralization. The deposit contains approximately 102.6 million tons of mineralized material, containing 1.88% of zinc, 0.47% of copper and 17 grams of silver per ton. In 2016, we reviewed the geological model of the deposit and the lithological description of prior drill holes, which were analyzed using infrared spectrometry. The results were included in the reserves database. Currently, we have concluded the conceptual design of the flotation plant. Additionally, the mining plan and economic studies have been prepared by external companies. In 2020, exploration was concluded at the Buenavista-Zinc site. In 2021, we expect to conduct a 5,000-meter drilling program at the Elisa-Puertecitos project, which is immediately northeast of Buenavista-Zinc.
The Chalchihuites. This is a skarn type deposit located in the state of Zacatecas, close to the San Martin mining unit. Drilling programs conducted between 1980 and 2014 identified 12.6 million of mineralized material with an average silver content of 110 grams per ton, 2.66% of zinc, 0.37% of lead and 0.67% of copper. Current results indicate that mineralization consists of a complex mixture of oxides and sulfides of silver, lead and zinc that requires additional metallurgical research. In 2017, we started a new drilling program of 21,000 meters to continue metallurgical research and testing. In 2018, this exploration program, which included 48 drill holes was completed. This program has been carried out in compliance with QA/QC protocol, which includes testing the specific density of different rocks and mineralized types and geochemistry sampling. In addition, 5,000 meters of core sample from the drilling program were analyzed with a hyperspectral scanner, and a study of 498 kilometers of hyperspectral imaging was conducted to recognize the geology of the entire Chalchihuites mineral district. In 2019, with the complete data from the diamond drilling program, we made a geological model of the Cronos deposit using Leapfrog software. In 2020, the sample design for a metallurgical test was completed and three metallurgical samples were delivered to an external consultant. We expect to conduct this test in 2021.
Bella Union (La Caridad). This prospect is a mineralized copper and molybdenum breccia deposit; the site is located at less than one kilometer from the border of La Caridad pit. In 2016 and 2017, we conducted a 28,217 meter drilling program to define the geometry of the deposit. The results identified 36.2 million tons of mineralized material with an average of 0.44% copper content and 0.05% of molybdenum. In May 2018, the drilling in this project was completed, totaling 46,400 meters distributed in 113 drill holes. The test results were received in June 2018. Currently, exploration at Bella Union has been completed and external consultants are working to integrate the information of this prospect into the life plan for the La Caridad-Pilares mines.
Campo Medio (Santa Eulalia). This prospect is located close to the west border of the Santa Eulalia mine. Results of geological surveying and drilling programs indicated that its mineralization consists of sulfides with 2.85 meters of width, 219 grams of silver, 6.60% of lead and 7.55% of zinc. Exploration at the Campo Medio area did not render positive results and exploration activities were suspended. In order to continue exploration towards the southern end of the San Antonio mine, the area must be drained because it was affected by flooding at Santa Eulalia.
Chile
El Salado (Montonero). A copper-gold prospect located in the Atacama region, northern Chile has been under exploration for copper and molybdenum porphyry since 2014. In 2016, we conducted a diamond drilling program of 12,169 meters to define mineral classification. In 2017, we drilled a total of 9,939 meters and finished the conceptual study. In 2021, we plan to conduct a pre-feasibility study of the project.
Other Chilean Prospects. In 2020, we concluded exploration work at the Cobre Sol prospect, a copper porphyry prospect located in the Antofagasta region. We conducted three diamond drilling programs, which totaled 798 meters and the results did not meet our objectives. In 2021, we plan to conduct a diamond drilling program of 12,000 meters at three prospects located in the copper-gold strip of the Antofagasta region in the north of Chile.
Ecuador
Chaucha. The Ruta del Cobre (“Copper Road”) project is located west of Cuenca city and south of Guayaquil. The mineralization in this area is characteristic of a copper-molybdenum porphyry system which is being explored since 2014. Through 2019, the exploration phase concluded with a total of 79,900 meters drilled. In 2020, we continued the infill-drilling program, where we conducted 35,400 meters of diamond drilling to reclassify the project’s existing mineralized materials. In 2021, we plan to drill an additional 30,000 meters to conclude the infill-drilling program and begin the project’s feasibility study.
Argentina
In 2011, we started exploration activities in Argentina. In 2015, we performed geological exploration in the Salta, Rio Negro and Neuquen provinces where we expected to locate copper porphyry with precious metals epithermal systems. In 2017, we performed prospection and geological evaluation work in the provinces of San Juan and Rio Negro. In 2019, we conducted a diamond drilling program of 2,530 meters to continue exploring the silver-gold epithermal systems, denominated the Caldera project, located in the Rio Negro province. In 2020, we conducted geological mapping and surface sampling work in these areas. In 2021, we plan to conduct further exploration work, mainly at the Cerro La Mina and Tanque Negro prospects.
Cañadon del Moro. This is a low sulfidation epithermal deposit with high longitude seams located in the Rio Negro province. We have defined an epithermal deposit of silver of potential economic interest with an estimated grade of 9.46 ounces of silver per metric ton. In 2021, we plan to drill an additional 5,000 meters to continue exploring the prospective and potential minerals.
In 2021, we also plan to conduct a diamond drilling program of 4,000 meters at the Esperanza project, located in the Rio Negro province. In addition, in 2021 we plan to conduct exploration programs of 3,000 meters and 2,000 meters at the La Hoyada and La Chilena prospects respectively; both are located in the province of Catamarca.
ITEM 3.