ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Property Location, Facilities, Size and Nature of Ownership
General
The Company leases its principal executive offices, consisting of approximately 4,607 square feet located at 10215 Technology Drive, Suite 301, Knoxville, Tennessee at a rental of $5,279 per month and an office in Hays, Kansas at a rental of $500 per month. The Company has leased office space in Houston, Texas for use by Patrick McInturff, a vice president of the Company, at a rental of $1,000 per month.
Although the Company does not pay taxes on its Swan Creek leases, it pays ad-valorem taxes on its Kansas Properties. The Company has general liability insurance for its Kansas and Tennessee Properties. As of December 31, 2008, the Company does not have a production interest in Texas or Louisiana, but it is anticipated that an opportunity to participate in the properties the Company manages on behalf of Hoactzin Partners, L.P. in those states will be available in the future.
Kansas Properties
The Kansas Properties as of December 31, 2008 contained 211 leases totaling 30,251 acres in the vicinity of Hays, Kansas. The increase in the total volume of acreage of the Company’s Kansas Properties from 28,934 acres at the end of 2007 is primarily due to the Company’s acquisition of 19 producing leases in the Riffe Field, which is discussed in greater detail in Item 1 of this Report. In 2008, the Company continued to focus its drilling, development, and exploration activities in Kansas on evaluation of older producing properties, and those properties it acquired during the past few years. Many of these leases are still in effect because they are being held by production. The leases provide for a landowner royalty of 12.5%. Some wells are subject to an overriding royalty interest from 0.5% to 9%. Other than such wells bearing overriding royalties, the Company maintains a 100% working interest in most of its older wells and any undrilled acreage in Kansas. The terms for most of the Company’s newer leases in Kansas are from three to five years.
During 2008, the Company drilled 12 gross wells. The Company has a 100% working interest in all but one of the wells drilled, which was the final well drilled in the Ten Well Program discussed above in Item 1 of this Report.
Kansas as a whole is of major significance to the Company. The majority of the Company’s current reserve value, current production, revenue, and future development objectives are centered in the Company’s ongoing interests in Kansas. By using 3-D seismic evaluation on existing locations owned by the Company in Kansas, the Company has added and continues to add proven direct offset locations. Breaking down the Company’s assets in Kansas into individual leases produces no apparent stand out leases that appear to be stand-alone principal properties. As a whole, however, our collective central Kansas holdings (see map below) are of major significance and as a group the most materially important segment of the Company as demonstrated by the following facts during the year ending December 31, 2008:
·
Kansas accounted for 93.6% of the Company’s revenue (i.e. $14.6 million of $15.6 million).
·
Kansas accounted for 91% of the Company’s total production measured in BOE (Barrel of Oil Equivalent).
·
The Company’s focus in 2009 will be to continue with offset seismic development, and leasing activity in Kansas. However, such activity will be greatly affected by oil prices. If oil prices remain at current lower levels for prolonged periods this will have an adverse impact on the Company’s development of its properties and acquisition of any new properties.
The map below indicates the location of the Company’s top ten leases in Kansas as of December 31, 2008.
The following tables indicate the production from the Company’s top ten leases in 2008 as well as the reserve value of these leases as of December 31, 2008. By comparing these tables with the tables below showing the total production from the Kansas Properties in 2008 and the Company’s aggregate reserve value as of December 31, 2008, it is apparent that none of the Company’s Kansas leases are on their own significant properties, but that they must all be viewed as a whole to appreciate their significance to the Company’s operations.
Largest Kansas Leases by Production
Largest Kansas Leases by Reserve Value
Tennessee Properties
The Company's Swan Creek leases are on approximately 8,773 acres in Hancock, Claiborne and Jackson Counties in Tennessee.
Working interest owners in oil and gas wells in which the Company has working interests are entitled to market their respective shares of production to purchasers other than purchasers with whom the Company has contracted. Absent such contractual arrangements being made by the working interest owners, the Company is authorized but is not required to provide a market for oil or gas attributable to working interest owners’ production. At this time, the Company has not agreed to market gas for any working interest owner to customers other than customers of the Company. The Company does not anticipate that any working interest owner will request to market its own share of production because there is no viable customer or market for the small volumes of gas attributable to those working interests. If the Company were to agree to market gas for working interest owners to customers other than the Company’s customers, the Company would have to agree, at that time, to the terms of such marketing arrangements and it is possible that as a result of such arrangements, the Company’s revenues from such production may be correspondingly reduced. If the working interest owners make their own arrangements to market their natural gas to other end users along the Company’s pipeline, such gas would be transported by TPC at published tariff rates. If the working interest owners do not market their production, either independently or through the Company, then their interest will be treated as not yet produced and will be balanced either when marketing arrangements are made by such working interest owners or when the well ceases to produce in accordance with customary industry practice.
Reserve Analyses
The Company’s estimated total net proved reserves of oil and natural gas as of December 31, 2008, and the present values of estimated future net revenues attributable to those reserves as of those dates, are presented in the following table. These estimates were prepared by LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. (“LaRoche”) of Houston, Texas, and are part of their reserve reports on the Company’s oil and gas properties. LaRoche and its employees and its registered petroleum engineers have no interest in the Company and performed those services at their standard rates. Laroche’s estimates were based on a review of geologic, economic, ownership, and engineering data provided to them by the Company. In estimating the reserve quantities that are economically recoverable, end-of-period natural gas and oil prices, held constant, were used. In accordance with SEC regulations, no price or cost escalation or reduction was considered.
Under current SEC rules, the Company’s proved reserves are measured by what can be described as a “snapshot” analysis based on commodity prices of oil and gas on the last day of each calendar year. Thus, the natural gas and oil prices used in Laroche’s reserve reports are the period-end prices for natural gas and oil at December 31, 2008. These prices are held constant in accordance with SEC guidelines for the life of the wells included in the reserve reports but are adjusted by lease for energy content, quality, transportation, compression and gathering fees, and regional price differentials. The weighted average oil and natural gas prices after basis adjustments used in our reserve valuation as of December 31, 2008 were $34.04 per barrel and $7.00 per Mcf.
The prices used in calculating the estimated future net revenue attributable to proved reserves do not reflect market prices for natural gas and oil production sold subsequent to December 31, 2008. There can be no assurance that all of the estimated proved reserves will be produced and sold at the assumed prices. Accordingly, the foregoing prices should not be interpreted as a prediction of future prices.
The “snapshot analysis” method has been recognized as having limitations, and accordingly the SEC adopted new reserve reporting modernization rules on December 31, 2008 that are now effective for the Company’s reserve reporting for the year ending December 31, 2009. However, the effect of this snapshot analysis on the Company in 2008 has caused the Company’s reserve volumes and values to drop for two reasons. First, there is the magnified effect of single day snapshot pricing on the Company’s “proved, developed producing” reserves, referred to as the PDP reserve category. Although 2008 also saw record high oil prices for crude oil, the pricing used under SEC rules for 2008 for reserve reporting purposes is the December 31, 2008 price of $34.04 per barrel which is approximately 20% of prices received for the Company’s oil production in mid-2008 and the lowest oil price in recent memory. Consequently, under the snapshot analysis, the lower 2008 end-of-year oil price has effectively caused the total values of our long-lived PDP reserves to be reduced by the discounted cash flow analysis of the future revenues from each of our wells. In 2007, the Company’s PDP reserves were 2,275,970 barrels and were valued at $37.8 million using the 2007 year-end snapshot price of $85.41 per barrel discounted to present value at 10%. In 2008, despite the addition of interests in 12 new wells and all of the same 2007 producing properties, the reserve number fell because of the 2008 year-end snapshot price of $34.04 per barrel resulting in the reserves being determined to be 1,240,000 barrels of PDP reserves valued at $10.134 million.
Another drawback to the snapshot analysis method is that oil wells with lower volumes, long lives, and low production decline rates (like most of our older Kansas wells) are subject to falling out of the reserve valuation methodology many years before they are likely to stop actual production if depressed oil prices are used as the basis for calculations. This occurs at a point in time when future expenses of these wells, which are not reduced for operating low volume wells, meet or exceed the depressed snapshot price for the produced oil, which price is not allowed to escalate. From that point in time onward the well is assumed for valuation purposes to be shut-in or abandoned because it is assumed it would be unprofitable to operate. The consequence of this methodology is that for all outlying years where actual production is physically possible at a reasonable price, production volumes from those outlying years are removed from the PDP reserve valuation altogether, and are not discounted to a present value for 2008 reserve valuation purposes.
The snapshot method also provides another challenge to maintaining the values of “proved undeveloped” reserves (“PUD”). In order to include reserves associated with future drilling on PUD locations, it is necessary to demonstrate that a company has the financial ability to actually drill those locations. Said another way, if a location appears to be likely to produce hydrocarbons, it cannot be included in reserves as PUD if a given company has no way to actually pay for drilling the well to obtain production. Using a lower snapshot price of oil, such as the 2008 year-end price, reduces projected cash flow from existing PDP operations to a level where it may become difficult or impossible to demonstrate that the Company has sufficient cash flow to drill these PUD locations and thereby be able to include the value of the reserves likely to be produced from these locations in the PUD category. In addition, future costs anticipated to be required to drill and operate a PUD location are held to a fixed or current level and are not discounted for lower volumes, while the prices received for future production from such a well are held to the snapshot of the lower year-end price. In places such as Kansas, the discounted reserve values, when based on any low snapshot price are made to appear even less capable of being able to recover drilling and operating costs as is necessary to include the wells in the PUD category. In 2007, the Company had 39 PUD locations that contributed to the Company’s reserve valuation in the amount of $15 million. During 2008, the Company added additional PUD locations to the reserves, and drilled some wells previously on the PUD list from 2007, moving these reserves into the PDP category. Also during 2008, the Company continued to build its PUD elements of value throughout the course of the year from the geologic and engineering points of view. Nevertheless, because of the much lower 2008 year-end price as compared to the 2007 year-end price, the Company was required to remove all the future PUD locations as they are now valued at $0 and the corresponding volumes that could be produced by drilling these future wells from the Company’s reserve valuation. This happened because it appears unlikely that such wells would be drilled or have value if prices remain at the snapshot end of year 2008 price level for all future periods, as is assumed under current reserve reporting standards.
The Company will report its proved reserves under the new modernization rules enacted by the SEC for the year ending December 31, 2009.
At year end 2009, it remains possible that if yearly average commodity prices in 2009 are significantly higher (or lower) than the year-end snapshot price for 2008, the Company’s 2009 reserve valuations reserves may correspondingly increase (or decrease) significantly from the year end 2008 valuations, as a result of the same factors set out above. Nevertheless, the Company eagerly awaits the rule changes adopted by the SEC for 2009 as management believes that the new reporting rules and standards will give a more accurate and realistic picture of the Company’s future cash flow values and drilling opportunities both as to PDP and PUD categories of the Company’s reserves as well as adding new reportable categories for probable and possible reserves.
The LaRoche Report using the snapshot analysis method the standardized measure of future net cash flows associated with total proved reserves of the Company as of December 31, 2008 is stated to be $10,923,240. The LaRoche Report indicates the “proven developed producing” reserves for the Company as of December 31, 2008 to be as follows: net production volumes of 1,240,000 barrels of oil and 907 MMCF of gas compared to 1,604,607 barrels of oil and 1,130 MMCF of gas as reported by the Company at the end of 2007. The standardized measure of future net cash flows associated with total proved producing reserves as of December 31, 2008 is stated to be $10,134,445.
In substance, the LaRoche Report used estimates of oil and gas reserves based upon standard petroleum engineering methods which include production data, decline curve analysis, volumetric calculations, pressure history, analogy, various correlations and technical factors. Information for this purpose was obtained from owners of interests in the areas involved, state regulatory agencies, commercial services, outside operators and files of LaRoche. The net reserve values in the Report were adjusted to take into account the working interests that have been sold by the Company in various wells.
The Company has not filed the Report prepared by LaRoche or any other reserve reports with any Federal authority or agency other than the SEC. The Company, however, has filed the information in the Report of the Company’s reserves with the Energy Information Service of the Department of Energy in compliance with that agency’s statutory function of surveying oil and gas reserves nationwide.
The term "Proved Oil and Gas Reserves" is defined in Rule 4-10(a) (2) of Regulation S-X promulgated by the SEC as follows:
2. Proved oil and gas reserves. Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions.
i.
Reservoirs are considered proved if economic producibility is supported by either actual production or conclusive formation test. The area of a reservoir considered proved includes (A) that portion delineated by drilling and defined by gas-oil and/or oil-water contacts, if any, and (B) the immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as economically productive on the basis of available geological and engineering data. In the absence of information on fluid contacts, the lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir.
ii.
Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid injection) are included in the proved classification when successful testing by a pilot project, or the operation of an installed program in the reservoir, provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based.
iii.
Estimates of proved reserves do not include the following: (A) oil that may become available from known reservoirs but is classified separately as indicated additional reserves; (B) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, the recovery of which is subject to reasonable doubt because of uncertainty as to geology, reservoir characteristics, or economic factors; (C) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, that may occur in undrilled prospects; and (D) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite and other such sources.
Production
The following tables summarize for the past three fiscal years the volumes of oil and gas produced, the Company’s operating costs and the Company’s average sales prices for its oil and gas. The information includes volumes produced to royalty interests or other parties’ working interest.
Oil and Gas Drilling Activities
Kansas
In 2008, the Company drilled 12 gross new wells in Kansas. These wells included the tenth and final well in the Company’s Ten Well Program. See, Item 1 of this Report. The Company has a 100% working interest in the other eleven wells it drilled in Kansas in 2008. All wells drilled in 2008 have produced in the aggregate a cumulative total of 23,051 barrels of oil.
The results of the wells drilled in Kansas in 2008 are set out in the following table. Other than Kroeker No. 1 well the Company has a 100% working interest in the wells.
NAME OF
WELL
DATE COMPLETED
CUMULATIVE PRODUCTION (Bbl)
Kroeker #1
2-28-2008
1,088.00*
McElhaney A #1
4-22-2008
7,197.00
VonLintel #1
4-24-2008
Dry Hole - Plugged (exploratory)
Ruder #1
6-12-2008
468.00
Veverka B #1
7-27-2008
5,916.00
Albers #1
7-25-2008
6,005.00
McClure #1
8-20-2008
Dry Hole - Plugged (exploratory)
Veverka C #1
9-23-2008
Salt Water Disposal Well
Zerger #1
10-29-2008
85.00
Albers A #1
11-13-2008
2,064.00
Veverka B #2
12-4-2008
208.00
Mai A #1
12-10-2008
Dry Hole - Plugged (exploratory)
* Part of the Ten Well Program
The Company continues to pursue incremental production increases where possible in the older wells, by using recompletion techniques to enhance production from currently producing intervals.
Tennessee
In 2008, the Company did not drill any new wells in the Swan Creek Field. The Company has signed a farmout agreement allowing the drilling of shale gas wells in leased areas surrounding but outside of the Swan Creek Field. See Item 1, The Tennessee Properties, Swan Creek Production and Development, above. The Company believes that drilling new gas wells in the Swan Creek Field itself will not contribute to achieving any significant increase in daily gas production totals from the Field. As a result, the Company does not have any plans at the present time to drill any new gas wells in the Swan Creek Field.
Gross and Net Wells
The following tables set forth for the fiscal years ending December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008 the number of gross and net development wells drilled by the Company. The wells drilled in 2008 refer to the tenth and final well drilled in the Ten Well Program as well as eleven other wells drilled in Kansas in which the Company has a 100% working interest.
The term gross wells means the total number of wells in which the Company owns an interest, while the term net wells means the sum of the fractional working interests the Company owns in the gross wells.
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth information regarding the number of productive wells in which the Company held a working interest as of December 31, 2008. Productive wells are either producing wells or wells capable of commercial production although currently shut-in. One or more completions in the same bore hole are counted as one well.
Developed and Undeveloped Oil and Gas Acreage
As of December 31, 2008 the Company owned working interests in the following developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage. Net acres refer to the Company’s interest less the interest of royalty and other working interest owners.
ITEM 3.