ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
We were incorporated in Delaware in 1952. Our corporate offices in the United States are located at 1440 East Missouri Avenue Suite C-175, Phoenix, Arizona 85014. Our Phoenix telephone number is (602) 264-1375. Our corporate offices in Mexico are located in Mexico City and our corporate offices in Peru are located in Lima. Our website is www.southerncoppercorp.com. We believe that our existing properties are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business.
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
The following maps set forth the locations of our principal mines, smelting facilities and refineries. We operate open-pit copper mines in the southern part of Peru - at Toquepala and Cuajone - and in Mexico, principally at La Caridad and Buenavista. We also operate five underground mines that produce zinc, copper, silver and gold, as well as a coal mine and a coke oven.
EXTRACTION, SMELTING AND REFINING PROCESSES
Our operations include open-pit and underground mining, concentrating, copper smelting, copper refining, copper rod production, solvent extraction/electrowinning (SXEW), zinc refining, sulfuric acid production, molybdenum concentrate production and silver and gold refining. The extraction and production process are summarized below.
OPEN-PIT MINING
In an open-pit mine, the production process begins at the mine pit, where waste rock, leaching ore and copper ore are drilled and blasted and then loaded onto diesel-electric trucks by electric shovels. Waste is hauled to dump areas and leaching ore is hauled to leaching dumps. The ore to be milled is transported to the primary crushers.
UNDERGROUND MINING
In an underground mine, the production process begins at the stopes, where copper, zinc and lead veins are drilled and blasted and the ore is hauled to the underground crusher station. The crushed ore is then hoisted to the surface for processing.
CONCENTRATING
The copper ore with a copper grade over 0.4% from the primary crusher or the copper, zinc and lead-bearing ore from the underground mines is transported to a concentrator plant where gyratory crushers break the ore into sizes no larger than three-quarter of an inch. The ore is then sent to a mill section where it is ground to the consistency of fine powder. The finely ground ore is mixed with water and chemical reagents and pumped as a slurry to the flotation separator where it is mixed with certain chemicals. In the flotation separator, reagent solutions and air pumped into the flotation cells cause the minerals to separate from the waste rock and bubble to the surface where they are collected and dried.
If the bulk concentrated copper contains molybdenum it is first processed in a molybdenum plant as described below under “Molybdenum Production.”
COPPER SMELTING
Copper concentrates are transported to a smelter, where they are smelted using a furnace, converter and anode furnace to produce either blister copper (which is in the form of cakes with air pockets) or copper anodes (which are cleaned of air pockets). At the smelter, the concentrates are mixed with flux (a chemical substance intentionally included for high temperature processing) and then sent to reverberatory furnaces producing copper matte and slag (a mixture of iron and other impurities). Copper matte contains approximately 65% copper. Copper matte is then sent to the converters, where the material is oxidized in two steps: (i) the iron sulfides in the matte are oxidized with silica, producing slag that is returned to the reverberatory furnaces, and (ii) the copper contained in the matte sulfides is then oxidized to produce copper that, after casting, is called blister copper, containing approximately 98% to 99% copper, or anodes, containing approximately 99.7% copper. Some of the blister and anode production is sold to customers and the remainder is sent to the refinery.
COPPER REFINING
Anodes are suspended in tanks containing sulfuric acid and copper sulfate. A weak electrical current is passed through the anodes and chemical solution and the dissolved copper is deposited on very thin starting sheets to produce copper cathodes containing approximately 99.99% copper. During this process, silver, gold and other metals (for example, palladium, platinum and selenium), along with other impurities, settle on the bottom of the tank (anodic slime). This anodic slime is processed at a precious metal plant where selenium, silver and gold are recovered.
COPPER ROD PLANT
To produce copper rod, copper cathodes are first smelted in a furnace and then dosified in a casting machine. The dosified copper is then extruded and passed through a cooling system that begins solidification of copper into a 60´50 millimeter copper bar. The resulting copper bar is gradually stretched in a rolling mill to achieve the desired diameter. The rolled bar is then cooled and sprayed with wax as a preservation agent and collected into a rod coil that is compacted and sent to market.
SOLVENT EXTRACTION/ELECTROWINNING (SXEW)
An alternative to the conventional concentrator/smelter/refinery process is the leaching and SXEW process. During the SXEW process, certain types of low-grade ore with a copper grade under 0.4% are leached with sulfuric acid to allow copper content recovery. The acid and copper solution is then agitated with a solvent that contains chemical additives that attract copper ions. As the solvent is lighter than water, it floats to the surface carrying with it the copper content. The solvent is then separated using an acid solution, freeing the copper. The acid solution containing the copper is then moved to electrolytic extraction tanks to produce copper cathodes. Refined copper can be produced more economically (though over a longer period) and from lower grade ore using the SXEW process instead of the traditional concentrating, smelting and refining process.
MOLYBDENUM PRODUCTION
Molybdenum is recovered from copper-molybdenum concentrates produced at the concentrator. The copper-molybdenum concentrate is first treated with a thickener until it becomes slurry with 60% solids. The slurry is then agitated in a chemical and water solution and pumped to the flotation separator. The separator creates a froth that carries molybdenum to the surface but not the copper mineral (which is later filtered to produce copper concentrates containing approximately 27% copper). The molybdenum froth is skimmed off, filtered and dried to produce molybdenum concentrates of approximately 58% contained molybdenum.
ZINC REFINING
Metallic zinc is produced through electrolysis using zinc concentrates and zinc oxides. Sulfur is eliminated from the concentrates by roasting and the zinc oxide is dissolved in sulfuric acid solution to eliminate solid impurities. The purified zinc sulfide solution is treated by electrolysis to produce refined zinc and to separate silver and gold, which are recovered as concentrates.
SULFURIC ACID PRODUCTION
Sulfur dioxide gases are produced in the copper smelting and zinc roasting processes. As a part of our environmental preservation program, we treat the sulfur dioxide emissions at two of our Mexican plants and at Peruvian processing facilities to produce sulfuric acid, some of which is, in turn, used for the copper leaching process, with the rest sold to mining and fertilizer companies located principally in Mexico, Peru, United States, Chile and other countries.
SILVER AND GOLD REFINING
Silver and gold are recovered from copper, zinc and lead concentrates in the smelters and refineries, and from slimes through electrolytic refining.
KEY PRODUCTION CAPACITY DATA:
All production facilities are owned by us. The following table sets forth as of December 31, 2011, the locations of production facilities by reportable segment, the processes used, as well as the key production and capacity data for each location:
ktpd = thousands of tons per day
ktpy = thousands of tons per year
Tpy = tons per year
(1) Our estimates of actual capacity contemplating normal operating conditions with allowance for normal downtime for repairs and maintenance and based on the average metal content for the relevant period.
(2) After the almost three years of strikes the Buenavista concentrator restored full capacity in the second quarter of 2011.
(3) The 2011 capacity utilization at the La Caridad processing facilities was partially reduced by the lack of materials from the Buenavista mine which restored full capacity in the second quarter of 2011.
(4) During 2011, there was no production at the Taxco and San Martin mines due to strikes.
(5) At December 31, 2011, the coal reserves for the Nueva Rosita coal plant were 100.6 million tons with average sulfur content of 1.1% and a BTU content of 8,503 per pound.
PROPERTY BOOK VALUE
At December 31, 2011, net book values of property are as follows (in millions):
SUMMARY OPERATING DATA
The following table sets out certain operating data underlying our financial and operating information for each of the periods indicated.
SLOPE STABILITY:
Peruvian Operations
The Toquepala and Cuajone pits are approximately 825 meters and 900 meters deep, respectively. Under the present mine plan configuration the Toquepala pit will reach a depth of 1,635 meters and the Cuajone pit will reach a depth of 1,200 meters. The deepening pits present us with a number of geotechnical challenges. Perhaps the foremost concern is the possibility of slope failure, a possibility that all open-pit mines face. In order to maintain slope stability, in the past we have decreased pit slope angles, installed additional or duplicate haul road access, and increased stripping requirements. We have also responded to hydrological conditions and removed material displaced by slope failures. To meet the geotechnical challenges relating to slope stability of the open-pit mines, we have taken the following steps:
In the late 1990s we hosted round table meetings in Vancouver, B.C. with a group of recognized slope stability and open-pit mining specialists. The agenda for these meetings was principally a review of pit design for mines with greater than 700 meter depth. The discussions included practices for monitoring, data collection and blasting processes.
Based on the concepts defined at the Vancouver meetings, we initiated slope stability studies to define the mining of reserves by optimum design. These studies were performed by outside consultants and included slope stability appraisals, evaluation of the numerical modeling, slope performance and inter-ramp angle design and evaluation of hydrological conditions.
The studies were completed in 2000 and we believe we implemented the study recommendations. One of the major changes implemented was slope angle reduction at both mines, Toquepala by an average of five degrees and Cuajone by an average of seven degrees. Although this increased the waste included in the mineable reserve calculation, it also improved the stability of the pits.
In the Toquepala mine in 2007 we installed 20 meter wide geotechnical berms every 10 benches. We believe this will further strengthen the stability of the Toquepala pit.
Since 1998, a wall depressurization program has been in place in both pits. This consists of a horizontal drilling program, which improves drainage thereby reducing saturation and increasing wall stability. Additionally, a new blasting control program was put in place, implementing vibration monitoring and blasting designs of low punctual energy. Also a new slope monitoring system was implemented using reflection prisms, deformation inclinometers and piezometers for water level control, as well as real-time robotic monitoring equipment.
In 2011 a program of oriented and conventional geotechnical drilling was executed at the Toquepala mine, totaling 5,250 meters. At the Cuajone mine, the geotechnical drilling program totaled approximately 5,627 meters.
To increase the possibility of mining in the event of a slide, we have provided for two ramps of extraction for each open-pit mine.
While these measures cannot guarantee that a slope failure will not occur, we believe that our mining practices are sound and that the steps taken and the ongoing reviews performed are a prudent methodology for open-pit mining.
Mexican operations
In 2004, our 15-year mine plan study for the La Caridad mine was awarded to an independent consulting firm to conduct a geotechnical evaluation. The purpose of the plan was to develop a program of optimum bench design and inter-ramp slope angles for the open-pit. A number of recommendations and observations were presented by the consultants. These included a recommendation of a maximum average bench face angle of 72 degrees. Additionally, single benching was recommended for the upper sections of the west, south and east walls of the main pit. Likewise, double benching was recommended for the lower levels of the main pit and single benching for the upper slope segments that consist of either alluvial material, mine waste dumps or mineralized stockpile material. Alternatively, slopes in these types of materials, may be designed with an overall 37 degree slope. The geoestructural and geotechnical parameters recommended were applied in the pit design for the new life of the mine plan for La Caridad mine prepared in 2010. This mine plan replaced the 15-year mine plan prepared in 2004. However, since final pit limits have not been yet established at La Caridad, all current pit walls are effectively working slopes. Geostructural and geotechnical data collected at the open-pit mine from cell-mapping and oriented-core drilling databases provided the basis for the geotechnical evaluation and recommendations. We are also continuing collecting new information related to geotechnical data and other geology features in order to ensure the structural security and also to improve the geotechnical data base for future studies
At the Buenavista mine, we are following the recommendations of a geotechnical evaluation of design slope for the 15-year pit plan. This evaluation was prepared by an independent mine consulting firm. This evaluation included the determination of optimum pit slope design angles and bench design parameters for the proposed mine plan. The objective of the study was: 1) to determine optimum inter-ramp slope angles and bench design parameters for the 15-year plan and 2) to identify and analyze any potential major instability that could adversely impact mine operation.
The following recommendations were made for the Buenavista mine: an inter-ramp slope design angles for the 15-year pit plan, for all of the 21 design sectors, defined on a rock-fabric-based catch bench analysis, using double bench, can range from 48° and 55°, and the inter-ramp slope angles are based on geometries that resulted from the back-break analysis using 80% reliability of achieving the required 7.5 meter catch bench width for a single bench configuration and 10.6 meter catch bench width for a double bench configuration. Preliminary observations suggest the 15-year pit walls may be relative free-draining, the back-break analysis assumed depressurized conditions of mine benches, and the inter-ramp stability analysis were performed for both, saturated and depressurized conditions.
A pit dewatering/depressurization plan for the Buenavista mine was also recommended to address the issues of open pit drainage, dewatering plan and future slope depressurization. Phase I of the geohydrological study was completed by an independent consultant. The analysis included a preliminary assessment and work plan implementations.
In 2011, five wells for extraction and monitoring were drilled close to the mine. Also, we began a drilling program to monitor possible water filtration beyond the limits of the open pit mine. All the information obtained from these well drilling programs is being analyzed to be included in the hydrologic model. The open pit dewatering program from the bottom benches also continued during 2011 in order to allow us to continue with the current mining plan.
METAL PRODUCTION BY SEGMENTS
Set forth below are descriptions of the operations and other information relating to the operations included in each of our three segments.
PERUVIAN OPERATIONS
Our Peruvian segment operations include the Cuajone and Toquepala mine complexes and the smelting and refining plants, the industrial railroad which links Ilo, Toquepala and Cuajone and the port facilities.
Following is a map indicating the approximate location of, and access to, our Cuajone and Toquepala mine complexes, as well as our Ilo processing facilities:
Cuajone
Our Cuajone operations consist of an open-pit copper mine and a concentrator located in southern Peru, 30 kilometers from the city of Moquegua and 840 kilometers from Lima. Access to the Cuajone property is by plane from Lima to Tacna (1:20 hours) and then by highway to Moquegua and Cuajone (3:30 hours). The concentrator has a milling capacity of 87,000 tons per day. Overburden removal commenced in 1970 and ore production commenced in 1976. Our Cuajone operations utilize a conventional open-pit mining method to collect copper ore for further processing at the concentrator.
The table below sets forth 2011, 2010 and 2009 production information for our Cuajone operations:
Key: kt = thousand tons
x = Stripping ratio obtained dividing waste plus leachable material by ore mined.
Copper and molybdenum grades are referred to as total copper grade and total molybdenum grade, respectively.
Major Cuajone mine equipment includes fifteen 290-ton capacity trucks, nineteen 218-ton capacity trucks, nine 231-ton capacity trucks and one 360-ton capacity truck, three 56-cubic yard capacity shovels, one 73-cubic yard shovel, one 42-cubic yard shovel, one 33-cubic yard capacity front loader, five electric drills and one diesel drill for pre-splitting. Auxiliary equipment includes nine wheel bulldozers, ten Caterpillar bulldozers, two 988 CAT front loaders, three 966 CAT front loader and five motorgraders. This equipment includes a number of trucks and other units transferred from the Tia Maria project in 2011. We continuously improve and renovate our equipment.
Geology
The Cuajone porphyry copper deposit is located on the western slopes of Cordillera Occidental, in the southern-most Andes Mountains of Peru. The deposit is part of a mineral district that contains two additional known deposits, Toquepala and Quellaveco. The copper mineralization at Cuajone is typical of porphyry copper deposits.
The Cuajone deposit is located approximately 28 kilometers from the Toquepala deposit and is part of the Toquepala Group dated 60 to 100 million years (Upper Cretaceous to Lower Tertiary). The Cuajone lithology includes volcanic rocks from Cretaceous to Quaternary. There are 32 rock types including, pre-mineral rocks, basaltic andesite, porphyritic rhyolite, Toquepala dolerite and intrusive rocks, including diorite, porphyritic latite, breccias and dikes. In addition, the following post-mineral rocks are present, the Huaylillas formation which appears in the south-southeast side of the deposit and has been formed by conglomerates, tuffs, traquites and agglomerates. These formations date 17 to 23 million years and are found in the Toquepala Group as discordance. The Chuntacala formation which dates 9 to 14 million years and is formed by conglomerates, flows, tuffs and agglomerates placed gradually in some cases and in discordance in others. Also Quaternary deposits are found in the rivers, creeks and hills. The mineralogy is simple with regular grade distribution and vertically funnel-shaped. Ore minerals include chalcopyrite (CuFeS2), chalcosine (Cu2S) and molybdenite (MoS2) with occasional galena, tetraedrite and enargite as non economical ore.
Mine exploration
Exploration activities during the drill campaign in 2011 are as follows:
Concentrator
Our Cuajone operations use state of the art computer monitoring systems at the concentrator, the crushing plant and the flotation circuit in order to coordinate inflows and optimize operations. Material with a copper grade over 0.40% is loaded onto rail cars and sent to the milling circuit, where giant rotating crushers reduce the size of the rocks to approximately one-half of an inch. The ore is then sent to the ball mills, which grind it to the consistency of fine powder. The finely ground powder is agitated in a water and reagents solution and is then transported to flotation cells. Air is pumped into the cells to produce foam for floating the copper and molybdenum minerals, but separating waste material called tailings. This copper-molybdenum bulk concentrate is then treated by inverse flotation where molybdenum is floated and copper is depressed. The copper concentrate is shipped by rail to the smelter at Ilo and the molybdenum concentrate is packaged for shipment to customers. Sulfides under 0.40% copper are considered waste.
Tailings are sent to thickeners where water is recovered. The remaining tailings are sent to the Quebrada Honda dam, our principal tailings storage facility.
Major Cuajone concentrator plant equipment includes: one primary crusher, three secondary crushers, seven tertiary crushers, eleven primary ball mills, four ball mills for re-grinding rougher concentrate; one vertical mill for re-grinding rougher concentrate; thirty 100 cubic feet cells for rougher flotation; four 160 cubic feet cells for rougher flotation; five 60 cubic feet cells for cleaner scavenger; six 1350 cubic feet cells for cleaner scavenger; fourteen 300 cubic feet cells for cleaner scavenger; eight column cells; one Larox filter press and one FLS Smith filter press; two thickeners for copper-molybdenum and copper concentrates; three tailings thickeners; one high-rate tailings thickener and six pumps for recycling reclaimed water.
A major mill expansion was completed in 1999 and the eleventh primary mill was put in operation in January 2008. We believe the plant’s equipment is in good physical condition and suitable for our operations.
Toquepala
Our Toquepala operations consist of an open-pit copper mine and a concentrator. We also refine copper at the SXEW facility through a leaching process. Toquepala is located in southern Peru, 30 kilometers from Cuajone and 870 kilometers from Lima. Access is by plane from Lima to the city of Tacna (1:20 hours) and then by the Pan-American highway to Camiara (1:20 hours) and by road to Toquepala (1 hour). The concentrator has a milling capacity of 60,000 tons per day. The SXEW facility has a production capacity of 56,000 tons per year of LME grade A copper cathodes. Overburden removal commenced in 1957 and ore production commenced in 1960. Our Toquepala operations utilize a conventional open-pit mining method to collect copper ore for further processing in our concentrator.
The table below sets forth 2011, 2010 and 2009 production information for our Toquepala operations:
Key: kt = thousand tons
x = Stripping ratio obtained dividing waste plus leachable material by ore mined.
Copper and molybdenum grades are referred to as total copper grade and total molybdenum grade, respectively.
Major mine equipment at Toquepala includes twenty-eight 290-ton capacity trucks, thirty-six 218-ton capacity trucks, one 363-ton capacity truck, one 60-cubic yard capacity shovel, three 56 cubic-yard capacity shovels, three 73-cubic yard capacity shovels, one 15- cubic yard capacity shovel, eight electric rotary drills, two Down the Hole (DTH) drills for pre-split and two front-end loaders with capacities of 28 and 23 cubic-yard. This equipment includes a number of trucks and other units transferred from the Tia Maria project in 2011. We continuously improve and renovate our equipment.
Geology
The Toquepala porphyry copper deposit is located on the western slopes of Cordillera Occidental, in the southern-most Andes Mountains of Peru. The deposit is part of a mineral district that contains two additional known deposits, Cuajone and Quellaveco.
The Toquepala deposit is in the southern region of Peru, located on the western slope of the Andes mountain range, approximately 120 kilometers from the border with Chile. This region extends into Chile and is home to many of the world’s most significant known copper deposits. The deposit is in a territory with intrusive and eruptive activities of rhyolitic and andesitic rocks which are 70 million years old (Cretaceous-Tertiary) and which created a series of volcanic lava. The lava is composed of rhiolites, andesites and volcanic agglomerates with a western dip and at an altitude of 1,500 meters. These series are known as the Toquepala Group. Subsequently, different intrusive activities occurred which broke and smelted the rocks of the Toquepala Group. These intrusive activities resulted in diorites, granodiorites and dikes of porphyric dacite. Toquepala has a simple mineralogy with regular copper grade distribution. Economic ore is found as disseminated sulfurs throughout the deposit as veinlets, replenishing empty places or as small aggregates. Ore minerals include chalcopyrite (CuFeS2), chalcosine (Cu2S) and molybdenite (MoS2). A secondary enrichment zone is also found with thicknesses between 0 and 150 meters.
Mine Exploration
Exploration activities during the drill campaign in 2011 are as follows:
Concentrator
Our Toquepala concentrator operations use state-of-the-art computer monitoring systems in order to coordinate inflows and optimize operations. Material with a copper grade over 0.40% is loaded onto rail cars and sent to the crushing circuit, where rotating crushers reduce the size of the rocks by approximately 85%, to less than one-half of an inch. The ore is then sent to the rod and ball mills, which grind it in a mix with water to the consistency of fine powder. The finely ground powder mixed with water is then transported to flotation cells. Air is pumped into the cells producing a froth, which carries the copper mineral to the surface but not the waste rock, or tailings. The bulk concentrate with sufficient molybdenum content is processed to recover molybdenum by inverse flotation. This final copper concentrate with a content of approximately 26.5% of copper is filtered in order to reduce moisture to 8.5% or less. Concentrates are then shipped by rail to the smelter at Ilo.
Tailings are sent to thickeners where water is recovered. The remaining tailings are sent to the Quebrada Honda dam, our principal tailings storage facility.
Major concentrator plant equipment at Toquepala include one primary crusher, three secondary crushers, six tertiary crushers, eight rod mills, twenty-four ball mills, one distributed control system (DCS), one expert grinding system, forty-two collective flotation cells, fifteen column cells, seventy-two Agitair 1.13 cubic meter cells, two Larox pressure filters, five middling thickeners, two conventional tailings thickeners, three high-rate tailings thickeners, one tripper car, one track tractor and a recycled water pipe line.
The expected useful life of the principal equipment is over 20 years due to our equipment maintenance programs.
SXEW Plant
The SXEW facility at Toquepala produces grade A LME electrowon copper cathodes of 99.999% purity from solutions obtained by leaching low-grade ore stored at the Toquepala and Cuajone mines. The leach plant commenced operations in 1995 with a design capacity of 35,629 tons per year of copper cathodes. In 1999 the capacity was expanded to 56,000 tons per year.
Copper oxides from Cuajone with a copper grade higher than 0.343%, with an acid solubility index higher than 20% and a cyanide solubility index higher than 50% are leached. In Toquepala, the leach material cutoff grade is 0.081% and therefore material with a total copper grade between 0.081% and 0.40% are leached.
Major equipment at the Cuajone crusher plant includes one primary jaw crusher and one secondary cone crusher with a capacity of 390 tons per hour. In addition, the plant has one agglomeration mill, one front end loader and three 109-ton capacity trucks for hauling to the leach dumps. Copper in solution produced in Cuajone is sent to Toquepala through an eight-inch pipe laid alongside the Cuajone-Toquepala railroad track.
Major equipment at the Toquepala plant includes five pregnant solution (PLS) ponds, each with its own pumping system to send the solution to the SXEW plant. The plant also has three lines of SX, each with a nominal capacity of 1,068 cubic meters per hour of pregnant solution and 162 electrowinning cells.
Plant and equipment are supported by a maintenance plan and a quality management system to assure good physical condition and high availability. The SXEW plant management quality system (including leaching operations) has been audited periodically since 2002 by an external audit company, and found to be in compliance with the requirements of the ISO 9001-2008 standard.
Processing Facilities - Ilo
Our Ilo smelter and refinery complex is located in the southern part of Peru, 17 kilometers north of the city of Ilo, 121 kilometers from Toquepala, 147 kilometers from Cuajone, and 1,240 kilometers from the city of Lima. Access is by plane from Lima to Tacna (1:20 hours) and then by highway to the city of Ilo (two hours). Additionally, we maintain a port facility in Ilo, from which we ship our product and receive supplies. Product shipped and supplies received are moved between Toquepala, Cuajone and Ilo on our industrial railroad.
Smelter
Our Ilo smelter produces copper anodes for the refinery we operate as part of the same facility. Copper produced by the smelter exceeds the refinery’s capacity and the excess is sold to other refineries around the world. In 2007 we completed a major modernization of the smelter at a cost of $570 million. The nominal installed capacity of the smelter is 1,200,000 tons of concentrate per year.
Copper concentrates from Toquepala and Cuajone are transported by railroad to the smelter, where they are smelted using an ISASMELT furnace, converters and anode furnaces to produce copper anodes with 99.7% copper. At the smelter, the concentrates are mixed with flux and other material and sent to the ISASMELT furnace producing a mixture of copper matte and slag which is tapped through a taphole to either of two rotary holding furnaces, where these smelted phases will be separated. Copper matte contains approximately 63% copper. Copper matte is then sent to the four Pierce Smith converters, where the material is oxidized in two steps: (1) the iron sulfides in the matte are oxidized with oxygen enriched air and silica is added producing slag that is sent to the slag cleaning furnaces, and (2) the copper contained in the matte sulfides is then oxidized to produce blister copper, containing approximately 99.3% copper. The blister copper is refined in two anode furnaces by oxidation to remove sulfur with compressed air injected into the bath. Finally, the oxygen content of the molten copper is adjusted by reduction with injection of liquefied petroleum gas with steam into the bath. Anodes, containing approximately 99.7% copper are cast in two casting wheels. The Smelter also can produce blister copper bars, especially when an anode furnace is in general repair.
Major equipment at the Ilo smelter includes one Isasmelt furnace, two rotary holding furnaces, four Pierce-Smith converters, two slag cleaning furnaces, two anodes furnaces, one casting twin-wheel, one blister holding furnace, one casting blister wheel, one waste heat boiler, one superheated steam, and three electrostatic precipitators.
The table below sets forth 2011, 2010 and 2009 production and sales information for our Ilo smelter plant:
Key: kt = thousand tons
The off gases from the smelter are treated to recover over 92% of the incoming sulfur received in the concentrates producing 98.5% sulfuric acid. The gas stream from the smelter with 11.34% SO2 is split between two plants: The No. 1 acid plant (single absorption/single contact) and the No. 2 plant (double absorption/double contact). Approximately, 16% of the acid produced is used at our facilities with the balance sold to third parties. We anticipate that our internal usage will be over 80% when the Tia Maria project begins operation.
The smelter also has two oxygen plants. Plant No. 1, with 254 tons per day of production capacity and Plant No.2, with 1,045 tons per day of capacity.
In addition, the smelter includes a seawater intake system, two desalinization plants to provide water for the process, an electric substation and a new centralized control using advanced computer technology.
In May 2010, the Ilo smelter marine trestle started operation. This facility allows us to offload directly to offshore ships the sulfuric acid produced, avoiding hauling cargo through the city of Ilo. The 500 meter long marine trestle is the last part of the Ilo smelter modernization project. Currently all overseas shipments of sulfuric acid are being made using the marine trestle.
Refinery
The Ilo refinery consists of a receiving and preparing anode facility, an electrolytic plant, a precious metal plant and a number of ancillary installations. The refinery is producing grade A copper cathode of 99.998% purity. The nominal capacity is 280,000 tons per year. Anodic slimes are recovered from the refining process and then sent to the precious metals facility to produce refined silver, refined gold and commercial grade selenium.
Anodes are suspended in tanks containing an aqueous solution of sulfuric acid and copper sulfate. A low voltage but high amperage electrical current is passed through the anodes, chemical solution and cathodes, in order to dissolve copper which is deposited on initially very thin starting sheets increasing its thickness to produce high grade copper cathodes containing at least 99.99% copper. During this process, silver, gold and other metals, including palladium, platinum and selenium, along with other impurities, settle on the bottom of the tank in the form of anodic slime. This anodic slime is processed in a precious metal plant where silver, gold and selenium are recovered.
The table below sets forth 2011, 2010 and 2009 production and sales information for our Ilo refinery and precious metals plants:
Key: kt = thousand tons
Major equipment at the refinery includes one electrolytic plant, with 926 commercial cells, fifty-two starting sheet cells, sixteen primary liberator cells, twenty-four secondary liberator cells, an anodic slime treatment circuit (includes leaching and centrifugation), and an electrolytic bleeding-off system by railroad to Toquepala’s leaching plants.
Main equipment at the precious metals plant includes one selenium reactor and system to produce commercial grade selenium powder, one Wenmec anodic slime roaster reactor, one tilting Copella furnace, twenty-six silver electrorefining cells including an induction furnace for shots and silver ingots production and one hydrometallurgical system for gold recovery.
The refinery also has these facilities:
(1) Production control: Provides sampling and sampling preparation for samples coming from the operating units, as well as SXEW, smelter and external services.
(2) Laboratory: Provides sample analysis services throughout the Company, including the analysis of final products like copper cathodes, electrowon cathodes, copper concentrates and oil analysis.
(3) Maintenance: Responsible for maintenance of all equipment involved in the process.
(4) Auxiliary facilities: Includes one desalinization plant to produce 1,000 cubic meters per day fresh water and a Gonella boiler to produce steam used in the refinery, one Babcock boiler used as spare and two stand-by KMH boilers.
Other facilities in Ilo are a coquina plant with a production capacity of 200,000 tons per year of seashells and a lime plant with a capacity of 80,000 tons per year. We also operate an industrial railroad to haul production and supplies between Toquepala, Cuajone and Ilo.
The industrial railroad’s main equipment includes fifteen locomotives of different types including 4000HP EMD’s SD70, 3000HP EMD’s GP40-3, 2250HP GE U23B and others. The rolling stock has approximately 496 cars of different types and capacities, including ore concentrate cars, gondolas, flat cars, dump cars, boxcars, tank cars and others. The track runs in a single 214 kilometer standard gauge line and supports a 30-ton axle load. The total length of the track system is around 257 kilometers including main yards and sidings.
The infrastructure includes 27 kilometers of track under tunnels and one concrete bridge. The industrial railroad includes a car repair shop which is responsible for maintenance and repair of the car fleet. Annual tonnage transported is approximately 5.1 million tons.
MEXICAN OPERATIONS
Following is a map indicating the approximate locations of our Mexican mines and processing facilities:
MEXICAN OPEN-PIT SEGMENT
Our Mexican open-pit segment operations combines two units of Minera Mexico, Mexcobre and Buenavista, which includes La Caridad and Buenavista mine complexes and smelting and refining plants and support facilities, which service both complexes.
Following is a map indicating the approximate location of, and access to, our Mexican open-pit mine complexes, as well as our processing facilities:
Buenavista
The Buenavista mining unit operates an open-pit copper mine, a concentrator and two SXEW plants. It is located 100 air-kilometers northwest of La Caridad and 40 kilometers south of the Arizona U.S.-Mexican border. It lies on the outskirts of the city of Cananea. Buenavista is connected by paved highways to the border city of Agua Prieta to the northeast, to the town of Nacozari in the southeast, and to the town of Imuris to the west. Buenavista is also connected by railway to Agua Prieta and Nogales. A municipal airport is located approximately 20 kilometers to the northeast of Buenavista.
Except for very brief periods, Buenavista was on strike from July 2007 through June 2010. Restoration of mine and plants started in the third quarter of 2010, SXEW production was restored to full capacity by the fourth quarter of 2010 and concentrator production reached full capacity in the second quarter of 2011.
The recovery of the Buenavista mine allows us to resume the development of our capital investment projects at the property, which include a new SXEW plant with a planned annual capacity of 120,000 tons of copper, a concentrator expansion with an increase in production capacity of 188,000 tons per year and two molybdenum plants with a combined annual capacity of 4,600 tons. This investment program is underway and we expect to complete it in two phases, the first in 2013 with an increase in annual production of 120,000 tons and the second phase in 2015 with a further increase in annual copper production of 188,000 tons. With these investments, total production capacity at Buenavista will reach 488,000 tons of copper.
The concentrator has a nominal milling capacity of 76,700 tons per day. The SXEW facility has a cathode production capacity of 54,750 tons per year. The Buenavista ore body is considered one of the world’s largest porphyry copper deposits. Buenavista is the oldest continuously operated copper mine in North America, with operations dating back to 1899. High grade ore deposits in the district were mined exclusively using underground methods. The Anaconda Company acquired the property in 1917. In the early 1940s Anaconda started developing the first open-pit in Buenavista. In 1990, through a public auction procedure, Minera Mexico acquired 100% of the Buenavista mining assets for $475 million. Buenavista is currently applying conventional open-pit mining methods to extract copper ore for further processing in the concentrator. Two leach ore crushers and the corresponding belt conveying systems are used to convey the leachable material to the heaps. Likewise, run-off mine leachable ore is hauled by trucks to the leach dumps.
The following table shows 2011, 2010 and 2009 production information for Buenavista:
Key: kt = thousand tons
x = Stripping ratio obtained dividing waste plus leachable material by ore mined.
The copper grade is total grade.
The following table summarizes the estimated production losses at our Buenavista mine due to the strike:
Major Buenavista mine equipment includes 50 trucks for ore hauling with individual capacities ranging from 240 to 400 tons, eight shovels with individual capacities ranging from 30 to 70 cubic yards, and mine auxiliary equipment including, seven drillers, five front loaders, five motor graders and twenty-four tractors.
Geology
The Buenavista mining district lies on the southern cordilleran orogen, which extends from southern Mexico to northwestern United States. It also falls within the Basin and Range metallogenic province. Geological and structural features in the district are representative of large, disseminated type, porphyry copper deposits. A calcareous sedimentary sequence of lower Paleozoic age, lithologically correlated with a similar section in southeastern Arizona, uncomformably overlies Precambrian granite basement. The entire section was covered by volcanic rocks of Mesozoic age and later intruded by deep seated granodiorite batholith of Tertiary age, with further quartz monzonite porphyry differentiates of Laramide age.
Mineralization in the district is extensive covering a surface area of approximately 30 square kilometers. An early pegmatitic stage associated with bornite-chalcopyrite-molybdenite assemblage was followed by a widespread flooding of hydrothermal solutions with quartz- pyrite-chalcopyrite. A pervasive quartz-sericite alteration is evident throughout the district’s igneous rock fabric.
An extensive and economically important zone of supergene enrichment, with disseminated and stockworks of chalcocite (Cu2S), developed below the iron oxide capping. This zone coincides with the topography and has an average thickness of 300 meters. A mixed zone of secondary and primary sulfides underlay the chalcocite blanket. The hypogene mineralization, principally chalcopyrite, (CuFeS2), extensively underlies the orebody. Molybdenite occurs throughout the deposit and the content tends to increase with depth.
The Buenavista copper porphyry is considered world-class and unique. The deepest exploration results in the core of the deposit have confirmed significant increase in copper grades. Similar porphyry copper deposits usually contain lower grades at depth. The district is also unique for the occurrence of high-grade breccia pipes, occurring in clusters following the trend of the district.
Current dimensions of the mineralized ore body are 5x3 kilometers, and projects to more than 1 kilometer at depth. Considering the geological and economic potential of the Buenavista porphyry copper deposit, it is expected that the operation can support a sizeable increase in copper production capacity.
Mine Exploration
Due to Buenavista’s illegal work stoppage, there were no exploration programs developed in 2010 and 2009. In 2011, we resumed exploration activities. In-fill core drilling was conducted at the Buenavista zinc-copper-silver deposit, including directional drilling for geotechnical purpose. A deep drilling campaign was initiated to explore the extent of the deposit at depth. Likewise, a condemnation drilling program was initiated to define areas for future infrastructure as well as areas where leach and waste dumps will be deposited. A total of 28,369 meters of core drilling was completed. A geohydrology program was initiated to explore the possibility of groundwater sources within the mine limits. A total of 756 meters was drilled with a down-the-hammer ring in four holes. The reverse circulation in-fill drilling campaign for short term mine planning totaled 4,737 meters during 2011.
Concentrator
Buenavista uses state-of-the-art computer monitoring systems at the concentrator, the crushing plant and the flotation circuit in order to coordinate inflows and optimize operations. Material with a copper grade over 0.38% is loaded onto trucks and sent to the milling circuit, where giant rotating crushers reduce the size of the ore to approximately one-half of an inch. The ore is then sent to the ball and bar mills, which grind it to the consistency of fine powder. The finely ground powder is agitated in a water and reagents solution and is then transported to flotation cells. Air is pumped into the cells producing a froth, which carries the copper mineral to the surface but not the waste rock, or tailings. Recovered copper, with the consistency of froth, is filtered and dried to produce copper concentrates with an average copper content of approximately 28%. Concentrates are then shipped by rail to the smelter at La Caridad.
The Buenavista concentrator plant, with a milling capacity of 76,700 tons per day, consists of two primary crushers, four secondary crushers, ten tertiary crushers, ten primary mills, one expert control system, five mills for re-grinding, 103 primary flotation cells, ten column cells, seventy exhaustion flotation cells, seven thickeners and three ceramic filters. In addition, the facility has 48 wells and a pumping station for fresh water supply, a tailings dam and a reclaimed water pumping station.
SXEW Plant
The Buenavista unit operates a leaching facility and two SXEW plants. All copper ore with a grade lower than the mill cut-off grade of 0.38%, but higher than 0.25% copper, is delivered to the leach dumps. A cycle of leaching and resting occurs for approximately five years to achieve a 62.5% recovery in the run-of-mine dumps and three years for the crushed leach material to achieve a 73% recovery.
The Buenavista unit currently maintains 21.8 million cubic meters of pregnant leach solution in inventory with a concentration of approximately 1.95 grams of copper per liter.
Major equipment at the number I and II SXEW plants includes two crushing systems (No.1 and No.2). Crushing system No. 1 has a capacity of 32,000 tons per day and includes an apron feeder, a conveyor belt feeder, eight conveyor belt systems and a distributing bar. Crushing system No. 2 has a capacity of 48,000 tons per day and includes one crusher, a conveyor belt feeder, four conveyor belts and a distributing bar. There are three irrigation systems for the dumps and eleven dams for the pregnant leach solution (PLS). Plant I has four solvent extraction tanks with a nominal capacity of 16,000 liters per minute of PLS and 52 electrowinning cells and has a daily production capacity of 30 tons of copper cathodes with 99.999% purity. Plant II has five trains of solvent extraction with a nominal capacity of 55,000 liters per minute of PLS and 216 cells distributed in two bays and has a daily production capacity of 120 tons of copper cathodes with 99.9% purity.
As mentioned above we intend to increase the Buenavista unit’s production of copper cathodes with a new SXEW plant, (SXEW III) with an annual capacity of 120,000 tons. The plant would produce copper cathodes of ASTM grade 1 or LME grade A. Please see Item 7 - “Capital Investment Program” for further information.
La Caridad
The La Caridad complex includes an open-pit mine, concentrator, smelter, copper refinery, precious metals refinery, rod plant, SXEW plant, lime plant and two sulfuric acid plants.
La Caridad mine and mill are located about 23 kilometers southeast of the town of Nacozari de Garcia in northeastern Sonora. Nacozari is about 264 kilometers northeast of the Sonora state capital of Hermosillo and 121 kilometers south of the U.S.-Mexico border. Nacozari is connected by paved highway with Hermosillo and Agua Prieta and by rail with the international port of Guaymas, and the Mexican and United States rail systems. An airstrip with a reported runway length of 2,500 meters is located 36 kilometers north of Nacozari, less than one kilometer away from the La Caridad copper smelter and refinery. The smelter and the sulfuric acid plants, as well as the refineries and rod plant, are located approximately 24 kilometers from the mine. Access is by paved highway and by railroad.
The concentrator began operations in 1979, the molybdenum plant was added in 1982, the smelter in 1986, the first sulfuric acid plant in 1988, the SXEW plant in 1995, the second sulfuric acid plant in 1997, the copper refinery in 1997, the rod plant in 1998, and the precious metals refinery in 1999.
The table below sets forth 2011, 2010 and 2009 production information for La Caridad:
Key: kt = thousand tons
x = Stripping ratio obtained dividing waste plus leachable material by ore mined
The copper and molybdenum grade are total grade. The molybdenum grade value corresponds to molybdenum disulfide (molybdenite); molybdenum recovery is at present 68.81%.
Major mine equipment includes twenty-seven trucks for ore hauling: twenty-four with a capacity of 240 tons capacity and three with a capacity of 360 tons, six shovels with a capacity of 43 cubic yards. Loading and auxiliary equipment includes six drillers, five front loaders, three motorgraders and eighteen tractors.
Geology
The La Caridad deposit is a typical porphyry copper and molybdenum deposit as seen also in the southwestern basin of United States. The La Caridad mine uses a conventional open-pit mining method. The ore body is at the top of a mountain, which gives La Caridad the advantage of a relative low waste-stripping ratio, natural pit drainage and relative short haul for both ore and waste. The mining method involves drilling, blasting, loading and haulage of ore mill and waste to the primary crushers and the leach materials and waste to dumps, respectively.
La Caridad deposit is located in northeastern Sonora, Mexico. The deposit is situated near the crest of the Sierra Juriquipa, about 23 kilometers southeast of the town of Nacozari, Sonora, Mexico. The Sierra Juriquipa rises to elevations of around 2,000 meters in the vicinity of La Caridad and is one of the many north-trending mountain ranges in Sonora that form a southern extension of the basin and range province.
The La Caridad porphyry copper-molybdenum deposit occurs exclusively in felsic to intermediate intrusive igneous rocks and associated breccias. Host rocks include diorite and granodiorite. These rocks are intruded by a quartz monzonite porphyry stock and by numerous breccia masses, which contain fragments of all the older rock types.
Supergene enrichment, consisting of completes to partial chalcosite (Cu2S) replacement of chalcopyrite (CuFeS2). The zone of supergene enrichment occurs as a flat and tabular blanket with an average diameter of 1,700 meters and thickness generally between 0 and 90 meters.
Economic ore is found as disseminated sulfurs within the central part of the deposit. Sulfide-filled breccia cavities are most abundant in the intrusive breccia. This breccia-cavity mineralization occurs as sulfide aggregates which have crystallized in the spaces separating breccia clasts. Near the margins of the deposit, mineralization occurs almost exclusively in veinlets. Ore minerals include chalcopyrite (CuFeS2), chalcosite (Cu2S) and molybdenite (MoS2).
Mine Exploration
The La Caridad ore body has been mined for over 30 years. The extent of the model area is approximately 6,000 meters by 4,000 meters with elevation ranging from 750 to 1,800 meters.
Sixteen drilling campaigns have been conducted on the property since 1968. These campaigns drilled a total of 3,317 drill holes: 1,154 were diamond drill holes and 2,163 were reverse circulation. We have also drilled some hammer and percussion drill holes. A total of 634,080 meters have been drilled through December 2011.
In 2008, La Caridad finished a large exploration program of 50,000 meters. The target was to reach to the 900 level in order to reduce the drilling space and to define the copper and molybdenum mineralization continuity and also carry out metallurgical testing for the flotation and leaching processes. There was no exploration program between 2009 and 2011. In 2012, we will be developing an exploration program of 10,000 meters with the objective of further defining the copper and molybdenum mineralization continuity.
Concentrator
La Caridad uses state-of-the-art computer monitoring systems at the concentrator, the crushing plant and the flotation circuit in order to coordinate inflows and optimize operations. The concentrator has a current capacity of 90,000 tons of ore per day.
Ore extracted from the mine with a copper grade over 0.30% is sent to the concentrator and is processed into copper concentrates and molybdenum concentrates. The copper concentrates are sent to the smelter and the molybdenum concentrate is exported. The molybdenum recovery plant has a capacity of 2,000 tons per day of copper-molybdenum concentrates. The lime plant has a capacity of 340 tons of finished product per day.
La Caridad concentrator plant consists of two primary crushers, six secondary crushers, twelve tertiary crushers, twelve ball mills, a master milling control system, 100 primary flotation cells, four re-grinding mills, 96 cleaning flotation cells, twelve thickeners and six drum filters.
SXEW Plant
Approximately 637.4 million tons of leaching ore with an average grade of approximately 0.235% copper have been extracted from the La Caridad open-pit mine and deposited in leaching dumps from May 1995 to December 31, 2011. All copper ore with a grade lower than the mill cut-off grade 0.30%, but higher than 0.15% copper, is delivered to the leaching dumps. In 1995, we completed the construction of a SXEW facility at La Caridad that has allowed processing of this ore and certain leach ore reserves that were not mined and has resulted in a reduction in our copper production costs. The SXEW facility has an annual capacity of 21,900 tons of copper cathodes.
The La Caridad SX-EW plant has nine irrigation systems for the dumps, two PLS dams and a container of heads that permits the combination of the solutions of both dams and which feeds the SXEW plant with a more homogenous concentration. The plant has three trains of solvent extraction with a nominal capacity of 2,070 cubic meters per hour and 94 electrowinning cells distributed in one single electrolytic bay. The plant has a daily production capacity of 62 tons of copper cathodes with 99.999% purity.
Processing Facilities - La Caridad
Our La Caridad complex includes a smelter, an electrolytic copper refinery, a precious metal refinery and a copper rod plant. The distance between this complex and the La Caridad mine is approximately 24 kilometers.
Smelter
Copper concentrates from Buenavista, Santa Barbara, Charcas and La Caridad are transported by rail and truck, respectively, to the La Caridad smelter where they are processed and cast into copper anodes of 99.2% purity. Sulfur dioxide off-gases collected from the flash furnace, the El Teniente converter and conventional converters are processed into sulfuric acid, at two sulfuric acid plants. Approximately 2% to 3% of this acid is used by our SXEW plants and the balance is sold to third parties.
Almost all of the anodes produced in the smelter are sent to the La Caridad copper refinery. The actual installed capacity of the smelter is 1,000,000 tons per year, a capacity that is sufficient to treat all the concentrates of La Caridad and Buenavista, and starting in 2010, the concentrates from the IMMSA mines, as we closed the San Luis Potosi smelter. The smelter includes a flash type concentrates drier, a steam drier, a flash furnace, one El Teniente modified converter furnace, two electric slag-cleaning furnaces, three Pierce-Smith converters, three rafinnate furnaces and two casting wheels. The anode production capacity is 300,000 tons per year.
Refinery
La Caridad includes an electrolytic copper refinery that uses permanent cathode technology. The installed capacity of the refinery is 300,000 tons per year. The refinery consists of an anode plant with a preparation area, an electrolytic plant with an electrolytic cell house with 1,115 cells and 32 liberator cells, two cathode stripping machines, an anode washing machine, a slime treatment plant and a number of ancillary installations. The refinery is producing grade A copper cathode of 99.99% purity. Anodic slimes are recovered from the refining process and sent to the slimes treatment plant where additional copper is extracted. The slimes are then filtered, packed and shipped to the La Caridad precious metals refinery to produce silver and gold.
The operations of the precious metal refinery are divided into two stages: (i) the antimony is eliminated from the slime, and (ii) the slime is dried in a steam dryer. After this the dried slime is smelted and a gold and silver alloy is obtained, which is known as dore. The precious metal refinery plant has a hydrometallurgical stage and a pyrometallurgical stage, besides a steam dryer, dore casting system, Kaldo furnace, 20 electrolytic cells in the silver refinery, one induction furnace for fine silver, one silver ingot casting system and two reactors for obtaining fine gold. The process ends with the refining of the gold and silver alloy.
Copper Rod Plant
A rod plant at the La Caridad complex was completed in 1998 and reached its full annual operating capacity of 150,000 tons in 1999. The plant is producing eight millimeter copper rods with a purity of 99.99%. The rod plant includes a vertical furnace, one retention furnace, one molding machine, one laminating machine, one coiling machine and one coil compacter.
Other facilities include a lime plant with a capacity of 132,000 tons per year; two sulfuric acid plants, one with a capacity of 2,625 tons per day and the second with a capacity of 2,135 tons per day; three oxygen plants, each with a production capacity of 275 tons per day; and two power turbo generators, one of them uses residual heat from the flash furnace, the first with a 11.5 megawatt capacity and the second with a 25 megawatt capacity.
The table below sets forth 2011, 2010 and 2009 production information for the La Caridad processing facilities:
Key: kt = thousand tons
Kg = kilograms
MEXICAN IMMSA UNIT
Our IMMSA unit (underground mining poly-metallic division) operates five underground mining complexes situated in central and northern Mexico and produces zinc, lead, copper, silver and gold, and has a coal mine. These complexes include industrial processing facilities for zinc, lead, copper and silver. All of IMMSA’s mining facilities employ exploitation systems and conventional equipment. We believe that all the plants and equipment are in satisfactory operating condition. IMMSA’s principal mining facilities include Charcas, Santa Barbara, San Martin, Santa Eulalia and Taxco.
The table below sets forth 2011, 2010 and 2009 production information for our Mexican IMMSA unit:
kt = thousand tons
(*) Weighted average annual operating days based on total material mined and milled in the five mines: Charcas, San Martin, Taxco, Santa Barbara, and Santa Eulalia.
Charcas
The Charcas mining complex is located 111 kilometers north of the city of San Luis Potosi in the State of San Luis Potosi, Mexico. Charcas is connected to the state capital by a paved highway of 130 kilometers. 14 kilometers from the southeast of the Charcas complex is the “Los Charcos” railroad station which connects with the Mexico-Laredo railway. Also, a paved road connects Charcas to the city of Matehuala via a federal highway and begins at the northeast of the Charcas
townsite. The complex includes three underground mines (San Bartolo, Rey-Reina and La Aurora) and one flotation plant that produces zinc, lead and copper concentrates, with significant amounts of silver. The Charcas mining district was discovered in 1573 and operations in the 20th century began in 1911. The Charcas mine is characterized by low operating costs and good quality ores and is situated near the zinc refinery. The Charcas mine is now Mexico’s largest producer of zinc.
The Charcas complex’s equipment includes eighteen jumbo drilling tools, nineteen scoop trams for mucking and loading, ten trucks and three locomotives for internal ore haulage and four hoists. In addition, the mill has one primary crusher, one secondary crusher and two tertiary crushers, four mills and three flotation circuits.
Geology
The Charcas mining district occupies the east-central part of the Mexican Central Mesa and is part of the Sierra Madre metallogenic province. Geological history starts in the Superior Triasic, where sandy clay sediments were deposited argilloarenaceous. Due to emersion in the beginning of the Jurassic Superior, the sediments suffered intense erosion, settling on continental sediments. This sequence was affected by tectonic effort, which folded and failed on this rock package. Later the positioning of intrusive rocks originated fractures, which gave way to positioning of mineral deposits. The site’s paragenesis suggests two stages of mineralization. First minerals are rich in silver, lead and zinc, with abundant calcite and small quantities of quartz chalcopyrite. Second, there is a link of copper and silver, where the characteristic minerals are chalcopyrite, lead ore with silver content, pyrite and scarce sphalerite. Economic ore is found as replacement sulfurs in carbonates host rock. The ore mineralogy is comprised predominantly of calcopyrite (CuFeS2), sphalerite (ZnS), galena (PbS) and silver minerals as diaphorite (Pb2Ag3Sb3S8).
Mine exploration
At Charcas, 15,905 meters of diamond drilling were executed from underground stations and 36,528 meters from surface. With this drilling, 3,359,530 tons were added to the reserve base in 2011.
The table below sets forth 2011, 2010 and 2009 production information for our Charcas mine:
kt = thousand tons
The Charcas mine uses the hydraulic cut-and-fill method and the room-and-pillar mining method with descending benches. The broken ore is hauled to the underground crusher station. The crushed ore is then hoisted to the surface for processing in the flotation plant to produce lead, zinc and copper concentrates. The capacity of the flotation plant is 4,100 tons of ore per day. The lead concentrate produced at Charcas is treated at a third party refinery in Mexico. The zinc and copper concentrates are treated at our San Luis Potosi zinc refinery and the copper concentrates were treated at the San Luis Potosi copper smelter until 2010. They are now treated at our La Caridad smelter.
Santa Barbara
The Santa Barbara mining complex is located approximately 26 kilometers southwest of the city of Hidalgo del Parral in southern Chihuahua, Mexico. The area can be reached via paved road from Hidalgo del Parral, a city on a federal highway. Chihuahua, the state capital is located 250 kilometers north of the Santa Barbara complex. Additionally, El Paso on the Texas border is located 600 kilometers north of Santa Barbara. Santa Barbara includes three main underground mines (San Diego, Segovedad and Tecolotes) and a flotation plant and produces lead, copper and zinc concentrates, with significant amounts of silver. Gold-bearing veins were discovered in the Santa Barbara district as early as 1536. Mining activities in the 20th century began in 1913.
The mining operations at Santa Barbara are more diverse and complex than any of the other mines in our Mexican operations, with veins that aggregate approximately 21 kilometers in length. Each of the three underground mines has several shafts and crushers. Due to the variable characteristics of the ore bodies, four types of mining methods are used: shrinkage stoping, long-hole drilled open stoping, cut-and-fill stoping and horizontal bench stoping. The ore, once crushed, is processed in the flotation plant to produce concentrates. The flotation plant has a capacity of 5,700 tons of ore per day. The lead concentrate produced is treated at a third party refinery in Mexico. The copper concentrates were treated at our San Luis Potosi copper smelter, and the zinc concentrates are either treated at the San Luis Potosi zinc refinery or exported. The copper concentrates are now treated at our La Caridad smelter.
The major mine equipment at Santa Barbara includes twenty-one jumbo drilling tools, one Simba drilling tool, forty-three scoop trams, fourteen trucks and eleven locomotives for internal ore haulage, four locomotives for surface haulage, seven trucks for external haulage and six hoists. For treating the ore, there are six primary jaw crushers, one secondary crusher and two tertiary crushers, three mills and three flotation circuits. The concentrator plant has a milling capacity of 5,800 tons of ore per day.
Geology
The majority of production from the district comes from quartz veins within faults and fractures. The north to northwestern trending veins is up to several kilometers long, dips steeply to the west and is 0.5 to 30 meters wide. Ore shoots up to several hundred meters in length, extends to at least 900 meters below the surface and is separated from other ore by 0.5 to 1 meter of barren quartz vein. Metal zoning occurs in some veins, with zinc and lead content generally decreasing with depth and copper increasing with depth. Three main systems of veins exist inside the district, represented by the veins Coyote, Segovedad Novedad and Coyote Seca Palmar. In addition to the main veins, there are many smaller sub-parallels to branching ore bearing veins. Economic ore minerals include sphalerite (ZnS), marmatite (ZnFeS), galena (PbS), chalcopyrite (CuFeS2) and tetrahedrite (CuFe12Sb4S13). Gangue minerals include quartz (SiO2), pyrite (FeS2), magnetite (Fe2O4), pirrotite (Fe2+S), arsenopyrite (FeAsS) and fluorite (CaF2).
The Santa Barbara district has mineralization to indicate that it will continue to be a significant producer of lead, copper and zinc for decades. The full potential of the district has not yet been defined, but the area seems to justify an increase in exploration.
Mine Exploration:
At Santa Barbara, 12,131 meters were drilled from underground stations and 41,104 meters from the surface in 2011. With this drilling 2,362,248 tons were added to the reserve base in 2011.
The table below sets forth 2011, 2010 and 2009 production information for our Santa Barbara mines:
kt = thousand tons
San Martin
San Martin has been on strike since July 2007. Please see Note 14 “Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements.
The San Martin mining complex is located in the municipality of Sombrerete in the western part of the state of Zacatecas, Mexico, approximately 101 kilometers southeast of the city of Durango and nine kilometers east of the Durango State boundary. Access to the property is via a federal highway between the cities of Durango and Zacatecas. A paved six kilometer road connects the mine and town of San Martin with the highway. The city of Sombrerete is about 16 kilometers east of the property. The complex includes an underground mine and a flotation plant and produces lead, copper and zinc concentrates, with significant amounts of silver. The mining district in which the San Martin mine is located was discovered in 1555. Mining operations in the 20th century began in 1949. San Martin lies in the Mesa Central between the Sierra Madre Occidental and the Sierra Madre Oriental.
The horizontal cut-and-fill mining method is used at the San Martin mine. The broken ore is hauled to the underground crusher station. The ore is then brought to the surface and fed to the flotation plant to produce concentrates. The flotation plant has a total capacity of 4,400 tons of ore per day. The lead concentrate is treated at a third party refinery in Mexico. Copper concentrate is treated at the La Caridad smelter and zinc concentrate is treated at the San Luis Potosi zinc refinery or zinc concentrate is sold to third parties.
The major mine equipment at San Martin includes eight jumbo drilling tools, thirteen scoop trams, nine trucks and three hoists. For treating the ore, there are two primary jaw crushers, two secondary crushers and one tertiary crusher, two mills and three flotation circuits. The concentrator plant has a mill capacity of 4,400 tons of ore per day.
Geology
San Martin lies in the Central Mesa between two major geologic provinces, Sierra Madre Occidental and Sierra Madre Oriental. The main sedimentary rock-formation in the San Martin district is the Upper Cretaceous Age Cuesta del Cura limestone. The formation is an interlayered sequence of shallow marine limestone and black chert, and it is overlain by Indura formation which outcrops at the foot of the topographic heights of the Cuesta del Cura formation. It consists mainly of alternating shales and fine-grained clayed limestones in ten to thirty centimeter thick layers.
The district’s most important mineral deposits are replacement veins and bodies generated in the skarn by Cerro de la Gloria granodiorite intrusion. An extensive zone of skarn west of the intrusive hosts, the San Marcial, Ibarra and Gallo-Gallina main ore veins, which appear at the surface for distances of up to 1,000 meters, with thicknesses of 40 centimeters
to four meters, paralleling the intrusive contact. In the central part of the deposit there is a horizontal zoning with respect to the contact of the intrusive with high values of silver and copper. In the top of the deposit there is mostly lead and zinc. In the northeast/east over concentric structures to the intrusive there is an increment of lead, zinc and silver in the skarn. Economic ore is found as replacement ore bodies between the main veins as massive and disseminated sulfides with widths from eight meters up to 200 meters. These bodies consist mostly of chalcopyrite (CuFeS2), sphalerite (ZnS), galena (PbS), bornite (Cu5FeS4), tetrahedrite (CuFe12Sb4S13), native silver (Ag), pyrrite (FeS), arsenopyrite (FeAsS) and stibnite (Sb2S3). Molybdenum and tungsten are found in little portions in the skarn near the contact associated with the calcite.
Mine Exploration
There was no mine exploration drilling in the three years ending December 31, 2011 because the San Martin mine was on strike.
There was no production at the San Martin mine in the three years ending December 31, 2011. The following table summarizes the estimated production losses at our San Martin mine due to the strike:
Santa Eulalia
The mining district of Santa Eulalia is located in the central part of the state of Chihuahua, Mexico, approximately 26 kilometers east of the city of Chihuahua. This district covers approximately 48 square kilometers and is divided into three fields: east field, central field and west field. The west field and the east field, in which the principal mines of the complex are found, are separated by six kilometers. The Buena Tierra mine is located in the west field and the San Antonio mine is located in the east field. The mining district was discovered in 1590, although exploitation did not formally begin until 1870.
The district of Santa Eulalia is connected to the city of Chihuahua by a paved road (highway no. 45), at a distance of ten kilometers there is a paved detour to Aquiles Serdan and Francisco Portillo (also known as Santo Domingo) where the Company’s offices and the Buena Tierra mine are located. Access to the Buena Tierra mine and San Antonio mine is via an 11 kilometer unpaved road.
The Santa Eulalia mine suspended operations from October 2000 to December 2004, during which time rehabilitation work was completed at the San Antonio shaft and pipes were installed to expand the pumping capacity to 10,500 gallons per minute. In January 2005, operations were restarted. In May 2010, the Santa Eulalia mine suspended operations due to a flooding in the area brought on by the failure of a dyke caused by excess water pressure. In 2011, the rehabilitation work was interrupted by a second flooding which required to us to extend the pumping work. At December 31, 2011, the rehabilitation work continues the pumping system was completed and the drain plug is under construction and we expect to restore mine production by May 2012. Total spent at December 31, 2011 is $21.5 million.
The flotation plant, at which lead and zinc concentrates are produced, has a capacity of 1,500 tons of ore per day. The lead concentrate is treated at a third party refinery, and the zinc concentrate is treated at our San Luis Potosi refinery.
Major mine equipment at the Santa Eulalia mine include five Jumbo drilling tools, eleven scoop trams for mucking and loading, two trucks and two hoists. For treating the ore, there are two primary crushers, one secondary crusher and one tertiary crusher, two mill crushers, one mill and two flotation circuits. The concentrator plant has a milling capacity of 1,450 tons of ore per day.
Geology
Santa Eulalia is the largest of a number of similar districts that lie along the intersection of the Laramide-aged Mexican Thrust Belt and the Tertiary volcanic plateau of the Sierra Madre Occidental. Deposits throughout the belt occur in a thick Jurassic-Cretaceous carbonate succession that overlies Paleozoic or older crust.
The main sedimentary rock in the Santa Eulalia district is the Lower Cretaceous Limestone. These are irregularly covered by volcanic sedimentary conglomerates that are overlaid by volcanic rocks of the tertiary and alluvial material of the Quaternary Age.
In the Santa Eulalia mining district a thickness of 500 meters of sedimentary rocks is known to exist which consists of the following formations: 1) Formation Lagrima (limestone fossils); 2) Formation Glen Rose (limestone blue and at its base a black limestone appears); and 3) Formation Cuchillo (limestone with shale). Dikes and sills of riolite composition and sills of diabase also exist.
In the district there are several systems of fractures and faults associated with the emplacement of felsitic and maphic intrusives. The most important controller of the ore bodies are the north-south fractures.
The mineralization corresponds in its majority to ore skarns - silicoaluminates of calcium, iron and manganese with variable quantities of lead, zinc, copper and iron sulfides, located in the planes of crossings in the interstices of the silicates. Economic ore is found as replacement in the Limestone Glen Rose in the contact with dikes and sills and replacements in diabase sills. The mineralogy is comprised predominantly of sphalerite (ZnS), galena (PbS) and small quantities of pyrargyrite (Ag3SbS3).
Mine Exploration
At Santa Eulalia, in 2011, 7,138 meters were drilled from underground stations and 13,722 meters from the surface. With this drilling, 31,104 tons were added to the reserve base in 2011.
The table below sets forth 2011, 2010 and 2009 production information for our Santa Eulalia mine:
kt = thousand tons
Taxco
Taxco has been on strike since July 2007. Please see Note 15 “Commitments and contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements.
The Taxco mining complex is located on the outskirts of the city of Taxco in the northern part of the state of Guerrero, Mexico, approximately 71 kilometers from the city of Cuernavaca, Morelos, where access through the highway to the complex is possible. The complex includes several underground mines (San Antonio, Guerrero and Remedios) and a flotation plant and produces lead and zinc concentrates, with some amounts of gold and silver. The mining district in
which the Taxco mines are located was discovered in 1519. Mining activities in the 20th century commenced in 1918. The Taxco district lies in the northern part of the Balsas-Mexcala basin adjacent to the Paleozoic Taxco-Zitacuaro Massif.
We employ shrinkage, cut-and-fill and the room and pillar mining methods at the Taxco mines. The flotation plant has a capacity of 2,000 tons of ore per day. The lead concentrate is treated at a third party refinery in Mexico. The zinc concentrate is either treated at the San Luis Potosi zinc refinery or exported.
The major mine equipment at the Taxco complex include four Jumbo drilling tools, ten scoop trams for mucking and loading, five trucks and three locomotives for internal ore haulage and three hoists. For treating the ore, there are two primary crushers, one secondary crusher and two tertiary crushers, three mills and two flotation circuits. The concentrator plant has a milling capacity of 2,000 tons of ore per day.
Geology
The Taxco district is stratigraphically formed of rocks from Jurassic to recent periods, which are described below, with emphasis on the mineralization control characteristics. The Taxco schist is composed of a series of schists and fylites, most likely from a volcanic-sedimentary sequence of tufa and limonites. They represent a sequence of metamorphological arch and its age has been defined as Jurassic Medium. The Morelos formation from the Upper Cretaceous age (Apian-Turonian) lies on a discordant form over Taxco schist and its contact is several times marked by a clay zone (mylonites) and breccia, which implies a shifting of this unit over the schist (packs). The Mezcala formation is constituted by a sequence of shale and sandstone with some inter-stratified layers of limestone. Its base is calcarean. Its top tends to be rich in clay with thin limestone layers. The Balsas group is constituted by conglomerates and is sandy on its base, rests in discordance form on an erosioned surface from the Mexcala formation. The Tilzapotla Ryolite is the newest rock, which emerged in the district before the alluvial deposit. It is formed of flux, breccia, tuffaceous, ignimbrites and vitrophyrre of ryolite composition.
There are four types of ore deposits found in Taxco district. In order of importance they are as follows: fissure-filling veins, replacement veins, blanket-like replacement bodies (so called “mantos”), stock works and brecciate chimneys. The three first ones are intimately related and they were formed in the same era, although in different stages.
The veins reach up to two kilometers in length with a variable potency of thirty centimeters up to eight meters, which is the case of copper veins at the mines of Guerrero, Hueyapa and Palo Amarillo at the San Antonio mine; the Remedios mine has among other veins, El Muerto and El Cristo one kilometer long and five meters in average potency.
Economic ore is found in the deposit in veins. Ore mineral include argentiferous galena (PbS), sphalerite (ZnS), pyrargyrite (Ag3SbS3), and other sulfosalts, and replacement “mantos.” The most mineralized zones are in the vicinity of the veins with the limestone. The mineralization is more intensive in the base of the limestone and consists of sphalerite (ZnS), galena (PbS), pyrite (FeS) and magnetite (FeOFe2O3).
Mine Exploration
There was no mine exploration drilling in the three years ending December 31, 2011 because the Taxco mine was on strike.
There was no production at the Taxco mine in the three years ending December 31, 2011. The following table summarizes the estimated production losses at our Taxco mine due to the strike:
Processing Facilities - San Luis Potosi
Our San Luis Potosi electrolytic zinc refinery is located in the city of San Luis Potosi, in the state of San Luis Potosi, Mexico. The San Luis Potosi copper smelter is adjacent to the refinery. The city of San Luis Potosi is connected to our refinery and smelter by a major highway.
Smelter
Our San Luis copper smelter was closed in 2010, and copper concentrates previously smelted at this plant are now sent to La Caridad for smelting. We have initiated a program for plant demolition and soil remediation with a budget of $35.7 million, of which we have spent $22.5 million at December 31, 2011. We expect to complete the program by the end of 2013 after which we expect to generate a net gain on the disposal of this property.
The table below sets forth 2011, 2010 and 2009 production information for our San Luis Potosi copper smelter:
kt = thousand tons
(*) Through March 16, 2010.
Zinc Refinery
The San Luis Potosi electrolytic zinc refinery was built in 1982. It was designed to produce 105,000 tons of refined zinc per year by treating up to 200,000 tons of zinc concentrate from our own mines, principally Charcas, which is located 113 kilometers from the refinery. The refinery produces special high grade zinc (99.995% zinc), high grade zinc (over 99.9% zinc) and zinc-based alloys with aluminum, lead, copper or magnesium in varying quantities and sizes depending on market demand. Refined silver and gold production is obtained from tolling services provided by Industrias Penoles, a Mexican mining company.
The electrolytic zinc refinery’s major equipment includes a roaster with 85 square meters of roasting area, a steam recovery boiler and an acid plant. There is a calcine processing area with five leaching stages: neutral, hot acid, intermediate acid, acid, purified fourth and jarosite, as well as two stages for solution purifying. Additionally, the equipment includes a cell house with two electrowinning circuits to finally obtain metallic zinc; an alloy and molding area with two induction furnaces and four molding systems, two of them with chains to produce 25 kilogram ingots; and two casting wheels to manufacture one ton jumbo pieces.
The table below sets forth 2011, 2010 and 2009 production information for our San Luis Potosi zinc refinery:
kt = thousand tons
Nueva Rosita Coal and Coke Complex
The Nueva Rosita coal and coke complex, began operations in 1924 and is located in the state of Coahuila, Mexico on the outskirts of the city of Nueva Rosita near the Texas border. It includes a) an underground coal mine, which has been closed as a result of an accident in 2006; b) an open-pit mine with a yearly capacity of approximately 350,000 tons of coal; c) a coal washing plant completed in 1998 with a capacity of 900,000 tons per year that produces clean coal of a higher quality; and d) a re-engineered and modernized 21 ovens coke facility capable of producing 100,000 tons of coke per year (metallurgical, nut and fine) of which, 95,000 tons are metallurgical coke. There is also a by-product plant to clean the coke gas oven in which tar, ammonium sulfate and light crude oil are recovered. There are also two boilers to produce 80,000 steam pounds that are used in the by-products plant. The re-engineering and modernization of 21 ovens was completed in April 2006 and are presently operating with no problems to report.
The coke oven installation supplied the San Luis Potosi copper smelter with low-cost coke, resulting in significant cost savings to the smelter. The production is now sold to Peñoles and other Mexican consumers in northern Mexico. We expect to sell 72,117 tons of metallurgical coke in 2012.
Mine Exploration:
During 2011 at Nueva Rosita, 2,640 meters of diamond drilling were performed at the Esperanzas and Nueva Rosita open pits. Through this drilling we identified approximately 0.18 million tons of coal reserves.
The table below sets forth 2011, 2010 and 2009 production information for our Nueva Rosita coal and coke complex:
kt = thousand tons
ORE RESERVES
Ore reserves are those estimated quantities of proven and probable material that may be economically mined and processed for extraction of their mineral content, at the time of the reserve determination. “Proven” (measured) reserves are reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (b) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed samplings; and (c) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well-established. “Probable” (indicated) reserves are reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling, and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven (measured) reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. “Mineralized material,” on the other hand, is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average grade of metal(s). Such a deposit does not qualify as a reserve until legal and economic feasibility are concluded based upon a comprehensive evaluation of unit costs, grade, recoveries and other material factors.
Our proven and probable ore reserve estimates are based on engineering evaluations of assay values derived from the sampling of drill holes and other openings. We believe that the samplings taken are spaced at intervals sufficiently close enough and the geological characteristics of the deposits are sufficiently well defined to render the estimates reliable. The ore reserves estimates include assessments of the resource, mining and metallurgy, as well as economic, marketing, legal, environmental, governmental, social and other necessary considerations.
Our Peruvian operations, including the Toquepala and Cuajone reserves, are classified into proven (measured), probable (indicated) and possible (inferred) categories based on a RCB Index (Relative Confidence Bound Index) that measures our level of geologic knowledge and confidence in each block. The RCB index is a measure of relative confidence in the block grade estimate. This approach combines the local variability of the composites used to krig a block with the Kriging variance and incorporates the use of confidence intervals in measuring uncertainty of the block estimates relative to each other. The final resource classification is then based on the distribution of these RCB values for blocks above 0.05% copper. It is the distribution that is used to find the breaks between proven/probable and probable/possible.
Our Mexican operations, including the Buenavista and La Caridad reserves, are calculated using a mathematical block model and applying the MineSight software system. The estimated grades per block are classified as proven and probable. These grades are calculated applying a three-dimensional interpolation procedure and the inverse distance squared. Likewise, the quadrant method or spherical search is implemented in order to limit the number of composites that will affect the block’s interpolated value. The composites data is derived from the geological exploration of the ore body. In order to classify the individual blocks in the model, a thorough geostatistical variogram analysis is conducted, taking into consideration the principal characteristics of the deposit. Based on this block model classification, and with the implementation of the Lerch-Grossman algorithm, and the MineSight Pit Optimizer procedure, mineable reserves are determined. The calculated proven and probable reserves include those blocks that are economically feasible to mine by open-pit method within a particular mine design.
For the IMMSA unit, the basis for reserve estimations are sampling of mining operations and drilling exploration, geographical and topographic surveys, tracking down all the foregoing in the corresponding maps, measurement, calculations and interpretation based on the maps and reports from the mines, the mills and/or smelters. Mineral reserves are mineral stock which is estimated for extraction, to exploit if necessary, to sell or utilize economically, all or in part, taking into consideration the quotations, subsidies, costs, availability of treatment plants and other conditions which we estimate will prevail in the period for which reserves are being calculated. The reserves are divided into proven (85% reliable or more according to statistical studies) and probable (70-80% reliable or more according to statistical studies) categories according to their level of reliability and availability. In order to comply with SEC regulations, proven reserves is a classification that can only be used for such mineral found on top of the last level of the mine (either mineral up to 15 meters below the last level or below the first 15 meters only with sufficient drilling (25 or 30 meters between each drill)).
Annually our engineering department reviews in detail the reserve computations. In addition, our engineering department reviews the computation when changes in assumptions occur. Changes can occur for price or cost assumptions, results in field drilling or new geotechnical parameters. We also engage third party consultants to review mine planning procedures.
Pursuant to SEC guidance, the reserves information in this report are calculated using average metals prices over the most recent three years unless otherwise stated. We refer to these three-year average metals prices as “current prices.” Our current prices for copper are calculated using prices quoted by COMEX, and our current prices for molybdenum are calculated according to Platt’s Metals Week. Unless otherwise stated, reserves estimates in this report use $3.26 per pound for copper and $13.95 per pound for molybdenum, both current prices as of December 31, 2011. The current prices for copper and molybdenum were $2.97 and $18.59 as of December 31, 2010 and $2.90 and $23.44 as of December 31, 2009.
For internal ore reserve estimation, our management uses long-term metal price assumptions for copper and molybdenum, which are intended to approximate average prices over the long term. At December 31, 2009 and 2010, these price assumptions were $1.80 per pound for copper and $11.00 per pound for molybdenum. At December 31, 2011, we changed our price assumption to reflect the changes in market trends. These new prices are $2.00 per pound of copper and $12.00 per pound of molybdenum. The average metal prices over the last 10 and 15 years periods and the continued positive outlook for these metals have led us to use these prices. For other forecast and planning purposes, particularly related to merger and acquisition activities, our management considers other price scenarios. These changes, however, do not affect the preparation of our financial statements.
For the years 2011, 2010 and 2009, we have used reserves estimates based on current average prices as of the most recent year then ended to determine amortization of mine development and intangible assets.
We periodically reevaluate estimates of our ore reserves, which represent our estimate as to the amount of unmined copper remaining in our existing mine locations that can be produced and sold at a profit. These estimates are based on
engineering evaluations derived from samples of drill holes and other openings, combined with assumptions about copper market prices and production costs at each of our mines.
The persons responsible for ore reserve calculations are as follows:
Peruvian open-pit:
Cuajone mine - Joel Pena, Senior Mine Engineer
Toquepala mine - Anthony Flores, Senior Mine Engineer
Mexican open-pit:
La Caridad Mine - Marco A. Figueroa, Engineering and Mine Planning Superintendent
Buenavista mine - Jesus Molinares, Engineering and Mine Planning Superintendent
IMMSA unit:
Santa Barbara - Jorge M. Espinosa, Planning and Control Superintendent
Charcas - Jose P. Guerrero, Planning and Control Superintendent
Santa Eulalia - Mario Ramirez Oviedo, Chief of Geology
Taxco - Marco A. Gonzalez, Chief of Geology
San Martin - Maria I. Carrillo, Chief Engineer
For more information regarding our reserve estimates, please see Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations” - “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” - “Ore Reserves.”
The table below details our proven and probable copper and molybdenum reserves as estimated at December 31, 2011.
kt = Thousand tons
(1) The Cuajone, Toquepala, Buenavista and La Caridad concentrator recoveries calculated for these reserves were 85.7%, 85.7%, 81.0% and81.1%, respectively, obtained by using recovery formulas according to the different milling capacity and geo-metallurgical zones.
(2) The IMMSA unit includes the Charcas, Santa Barbara, San Martin, Santa Eulalia and Taxco mines. Zinc and lead contained in ore reserves are as follows:
(3) In preparing the sensitivity analysis, we recalculated our reserves based on the assumption that current average metal prices were 20% higher and 20% lower, respectively, than the actual current average prices for year-end 2011. Reserve results of this sensitivity analysis are not proportional to
the increase or decrease in metal price assumptions. The analysis above does not include our IMMSA unit’s underground mines, for which the sensitivity analysis is as follows:
Sensitivity to 20% Change in Metals Prices
(4) Copper contained in ore reserves for open-pit mines is (i) the product of sulfide ore reserves and the average copper grade proven plus (ii) the product of sulfide ore reserves and the average copper grade probable plus (iii) the product of in-pit leachable reserves and the average copper grade. Copper contained in ore reserves for underground mines is the product of sulfide ore reserves and the average copper grade.
The table below details our proven and probable copper and molybdenum reserves as of December 31, 2011, calculated based on long-term price assumptions of $2.00 for copper and $12.00 for molybdenum.
(kt) = Thousand tons
(1) The IMMSA unit includes the Charcas, Santa Barbara, San Martin, Santa Eulalia and Taxco mines. Zinc and lead contained in ore reserves are as follows:
(2) Copper contained in ore reserves for open-pit mines is (i) the product of sulfide ore reserves and the average copper grade plus (ii) the product of in-pit leachable reserves and the average grade of copper. Copper contained in ore reserves for underground mines is the product of sulfide ore reserves and the average copper grade.
OVERVIEW OF BLOCK MODEL RECONCILIATION PROCESS
We apply the following block model to mill reconciliation procedure.
The following stages are identified at the Cuajone, Toquepala, Buenavista and La Caridad mines:
1. The mine geologists gather the necessary monthly statistical data from our information system (“SRP”), which provides ore tons milled and ore grades in the concentrator.
2. Mined areas are topographically determined and related boundaries are built.
3. Using the “interactive planner” option in our mining software (Minesight), ore tons and grades are calculated inside mined areas over the block model. At this point the current cut-off grade is considered.
4. In the final stage, accumulated tons mined, weighted average grade for ore material and leach is compared with data coming from our SRP system.
Tonnage and grade reconciliation for 2011 are as follows:
If the estimation error appears greater than 3%, a detailed evaluation is done to review the differences, which normally could result in more in-fill drilling, in order to better understand the geological characteristics (grade, rock type, mineralization and alteration) and the spacing of drill holes which are considered in the ore body zone.
AVERAGE DRILL-HOLE SPACING
The following is the average drill-hole spacing for proven and probable sulfide reserves as of December 31, 2011:
ITEM 3.