Item 2. Properties); 2) purchases from other utilities and from QFs and IPPFs; 3) renewables and demand-side management options and 4) new generation alternatives, including the phased repowering of Fort St. Vrain.
Peak Load
During 1998, net firm system peak demand and the net dependable system capacity for the Company's electric utility subsidiaries is projected to be as follows: 1998 Projected 1998 Projected Net Dependable System Reserve Operating company Net Firm System Peak Capacity* Margin - ----------------- -------------------- --------- ------
PSCo 4,401 Mw 4,960 Mw 13% SPS 4,058 Mw 4,595 Mw 13% Cheyenne 132 Mw 149 Mw ** - -------------- * Net dependable system capacity is the maximum net capacity available from both owned generating units and purchased power contracts to meet the net firm system peak demand. ** Reserve margin for Cheyenne is held by PacifiCorp.
The net firm system peak demand for each of the last three years was as follows:
Net Firm System Peak Demand (Mw) 1995 1996 1997 ---- ---- ----
PSCo*...................... 4,248 4,397 4,487 SPS........................ 3,952 3,694 3,715 Cheyenne **................ - - 132 - --------------
* Excludes station housepower, nonfirm electric furnace load and controlled interruptible loads (of which approximately 148 Mw, 122 Mw and 116 Mw in the years 1995-1997, respectively, was not interrupted at the time of the system peak). ** Prior to the Merger, Cheyenne was a subsidiary of PSCo; therefore, Cheyenne's coincidental peak demand is included with PSCo in 1995 and 1996.
The net firm system peak demand for PSCo for the years 1995-1997 occurred in the summer. The net firm system peak demand for 1997, which occurred on July 23, 1997, was 4,487 Mw. At that time, the net dependable system capacity totaled 5,001 Mw (generating capacity of 3,319 Mw, together with firm purchases of 1,682 Mw), which represented a reserve margin of approximately 12%).
The net firm system peak demand for SPS for the years 1995 - 1997 also occurred in the summer. The net firm system peak demand for 1997, which occurred on July 28, 1997, was 3,715 Mw. At that time, the net dependable system capacity totaled approximately 4,443 Mw (including firm purchases), which represented a reserve margin of approximately 20%.
Purchased Power
The Company's electric utility subsidiaries have contractual arrangements with regional utilities as well as QFs and an IPPF in order to meet the energy needs of their customers. Capacity, typically measured in Kilowatts or Megawatts, is the measure of the rate at which a particular generating source produces electricity. Energy, typically measured in Kilowatt-hours or Megawatt-hours, is a measure of the amount of electricity produced from a particular generating source over a period of time. Purchase power contracts typically provide for a charge for the capacity from a particular generating source, together with a charge for the associated energy actually purchased from such generating source.
The Company's electric utility subsidiaries have contracted with the following sources for the firm purchase of capacity and energy at the time of the anticipated summer 1998 net firm system peak demand through the expiration of the contracts:
Mw Contracted For at the Time of the Anticipated Generating Summer 1998 Net Firm Contract Company Source System Peak Demand Expiration - ------- ------ ------------------ ----------
PSCo Contracts:
Basin Electric Power Coopera- Laramie River Station tive, Agreements 1 and 2(a)(b) Units 2 and 3 175 2016
PacifiCorp (c) PacifiCorp Resource Pool 176 2011
Platte River Power Authority (a) (f) Craig Units 1 and 2; 142 2004 Rawhide Unit 1
Tri-State 525 (f) Agreements 1, 2, 3 and 4 (a)(e)Laramie River Station Units 2 and 3; Craig Units 1, 2 and 3
Agreement 5 (a) (e) Laramie River Station Units 2 and 3; Craig Units 1, 2 and 3; Nucla Units 1, 2, 3 and 4
Various Owners (a) QFs & IPPF 623 Various dates ---
Subtotal - PSCo 1,641
SPS Contract:
Borger Energy Associates (g) QF 192 2023
Cheyenne Contract:
PacifiCorp (d) PacifiCorp System 149 2000 ---
1,982 ===== ____________
(a) These contracts are contingent upon the availability of the units listed as the generating source. These contracts are take and pay contracts. Based upon the terms of these agreements, if the capacity is available from these units, then PSCo is obligated to pay for capacity whether or not it takes any energy. However, PSCo has historically satisfied the minimum energy requirements associated with these agreements and anticipates doing so in the future. Additionally, if these units are unavailable, the supplying company has no obligation to furnish capacity or energy and the capacity charge to PSCo is reduced accordingly.
(b) PSCo has entered into two agreements with Basin Electric Power Cooperative. The first agreement is for 100 Mw of capacity through March 31, 2016. The second agreement is for 75 Mw of summer season capacity through March 31, 2016 and 25 Mw of winter season capacity through March 31, 2010.
(c) The current agreement with PacifiCorp expires October 31, 2022. However, the agreement provides PSCo the opportunity to exercise an irrevocable option to terminate the agreement on December 31, 2011, provided PSCo gives notice to PacifiCorp no later than March 1, 2002.
(d) This contract, which expires in 2000, calls for PacifiCorp to sell to Cheyenne the total electric capacity and energy requirements associated with the operation of Cheyenne's service area.
(e) PSCo has entered into five agreements with Tri-State. Agreements 1, 2 and 5 are contracts for 100 Mw each of capacity and expire in 2001, 2017 and 2011, respectively. Agreement 3 is a contract for 25 Mw of summer season capacity and 75 Mw of winter season capacity and expires in 2016. Agreement 4 expires in 2018 and the related capacity is for the following amounts: 1998 through 2000 - 200 Mw and 2001 through 2018 - 250 Mw; however, either party may elect to reduce the Agreement 4 capacity by up to 50 Mw each year, except for 2001, effective in the year 1999. If the full 50 Mw reduction is taken each year, the capacity associated with Agreement 4 from 1999 on would be as follows: 1999 - 150 Mw, 2000 through 2001 - 100 Mw, 2002 - 50 Mw with no commitments thereafter. PSCo has notified Tri-State of its intent to reduce the capacity associated with Agreement 4 to 150 Mw for 1999.
(f) The amount of capacity to be made available for each summer and winter season is agreed upon prior to such season to the extent that Platte River Power Authority has excess capacity for such season.
(g) SPS entered into an agreement with Borger Energy Associates in May 1997 for the purchase of capacity and energy. Power deliveries are expected to begin on or before September 15, 1998. Power purchases from Borger Energy Associates will be up to 192 MW of capacity for the 1998 summer season and 230 MW beginning October 1, 1998 through the remaining contract term. SPS has an option to extend the term of the agreement for an additional 10 years.
See Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies - Purchase Requirements in Item 8. Financial Statements And Supplementary Data for information regarding the Company's financial commitments under these contracts. See Interconnections in Item 2. Properties for a discussion of the Company's interconnections with these sources.
Based on present estimates, PSCo will purchase approximately 32% of the total electric system energy input for 1998. In addition, based on the capacity associated with the purchase power contracts described above, approximately 33% of the total net dependable system capacity for the estimated summer 1998 net firm system peak demand for PSCo will be provided by purchased power.
All of the QF capacity purchased by PSCo, including approximately 4 Mw of additional capacity scheduled to come on line in the future, is being purchased under contracts entered into prior to January 1, 1988. The purchases of additional QF and IPPF capacity are currently based on a competitive bidding process. In 1997, approximately 14% of PSCo's summer net firm system peak demand was provided by QFs.
In addition to long-term and QF and IPPF purchases, PSCo also made short-term and non-firm purchases throughout the year to replace generation from PSCo-owned units which were unavailable due to maintenance and unplanned outages, to provide PSCo's reserve obligation to the Pool, to obtain energy at a lower cost than that which could be produced by other resource options, including PSCo-owned generation and/or long-term purchase power contracts, and for various other operating requirements. Short-term and non-firm purchases accounted for approximately 3% of PSCo's total energy requirement in 1997.
Based on current projections, PSCo expects that purchased capacity will continue to meet a significant portion of system requirements at least for the remainder of the 1990s. Such purchases neither require PSCo to make an investment nor afford PSCo an opportunity to earn a return. Further discussion related to recovery of purchased capacity costs can be found in "Regulations and Rates - Cost Recovery Mechanisms." SPS arranged seasonal short-term purchases for the summer of 1997 and may make additional short-term purchases for the 1998 summer season.
PSCo is a member of the Pool which is composed of members each of which owns and/or operates electric generation and/or transmission systems which are interconnected to one or more other member systems. The objective of the Pool is to provide capacity which is categorized as: 1) immediately accessible; 2) accessible within ten minutes; and 3) accessible within twelve hours, as required. As a result of membership in the Pool, PSCo can supply and protect its electric system with less aggregate operating reserve capacity than otherwise would be necessary; emergency conditions can be met with less likelihood of curtailment or impairment of electric
service; and generation and transmission facilities and interconnections can be used more efficiently and economically. PSCo is in discussion with regional utilities to create a new reserve sharing arrangement that better meets the new FERC and WSCC requirements. This new sharing arrangement, when finalized, will replace the current Pool arrangement.
Refer to Item 2. Properties-Electric Transmission Property for a discussion of SPS's activities with the SPP and the WSPP.
Construction Program
At December 31, 1997, the Company's subsidiaries estimated the cost of their total construction program, including AFDC, to be approximately $530 million in 1998, approximately $541 million in 1999, and approximately $450 million in 2000 (see Item 7. Management's Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results Of Operations).
Electric Fuel Supply
The following tables present the delivered cost per million Btu of each category of fuel consumed by the system for electric generation during the years indicated, the percentage of total fuel requirements represented by each category of fuel and the weighted average cost of all fuels during such years:
PSCo generating plants: Weighted Average Coal* Gas All Fuels** Cost $ % Cost $ % Cost $ ----------------------------------------
1997............... 0.99 98 3.03 2 1.03
1996............... 1.03 98 2.42 2 1.05
1995............... 0.99 99 1.52 1 1.00
* The average cost per ton of coal, including freight, for years 1995 through 1997 shown above was $19.06, $20.17 and $18.96, respectively. ** Insignificant purchases of oil are included.
SPS generating plants: Weighted Average Coal Gas All Fuels** Cost $ % Cost $ % Cost $ ----------------------------------------
1997............... 1.84 69 2.55 31 2.06
1996............... 1.93 69 2.38 31 2.06
1995............... 1.81 64 1.63 36 1.75
* The average cost per ton of coal, including freight and other components, for years 1995 through 1997 shown above was $31.37, $33.26 and $31.97, respectively. ** Insignificant purchases of oil, steam and hot nitrogen are included.
Coal
PSCo's primary fuel for its steam electric generating stations is low-sulfur western coal. PSCo's coal requirements are purchased primarily under eight long-term contracts with suppliers operating in Colorado
and Wyoming. The largest contract tonnage is supplied by Cyprus/Amax Coal, which operates the Belle Ayr and Eagle Butte Mines near Gillette, Wyoming and the Foidel Creek mine in northwestern Colorado.
Long-term contracts presently in existence provide for approximately 88% of 1998 coal requirements and more than 80% of future annual coal requirements through 2000. Any shortfall for 1998 will be provided by purchases on the spot market. During the year ended December 31, 1997, PSCo's coal requirements for existing plants were approximately 9,451,759 tons, a substantial portion of which was supplied pursuant to long-term supply contracts. Coal supply inventories at December 31, 1997 were approximately 40 days usage, based on the average burn rate for all of PSCo's coal-fired plants.
The following table provides a summary of the basic supply provisions of PSCo's existing long-term contracts, which provide for a minimum delivery of approximately 78 million tons of low-sulfur coal over their remaining life (see Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies - Purchase Requirements in Item 8. Financial Statements And Supplementary Data ).
1998 1998 Contract Minimum Maximum maximum delivery delivery sulfur Coal Supplier and Delivery Year in tons in tons content - ------------------------------- ------- ------- -------
Cyprus/Amax (1)..................... 3,960,000 (2) (3) 0.50%
Colowyo Coal Company................ 88,571 (4) 88,571 0.70%
Twentymile Coal Company (10)........ 1,170,000 1,430,000 0.55
Mountain Coal Company............... 600,000 (5) 800,000 0.67%
Powderhorn Coal Company............. 150,000 350,000 0.69%
Seneca Coals, Ltd (6) .............. 439,800 (7) 1.00%
Trapper Mining, Inc................. 179,427 (8) 179,427 (9)
Kennecott Energy Company (10)....... 450,000 500,000 0.55
(1) The contract term is completed upon delivery of a fixed quantity regardless of the year in which delivery is completed. From January 1, 1976 through December 31, 1997, approximately 57.6% of the obligation has been delivered. (2) Coal requirements of Comanche and Pawnee. (3) Coal requirements of Pawnee and Pawnee 2 upon completion of Pawnee 2 through 2013. (4) The contract minimum quantity varies by year during the agreement. (5) The contract term is completed upon delivery of a fixed quantity. As of December 31, 1997, approximately 62.7% of the obligation has been delivered. (6) The contract term is completed upon total delivery of a fixed quantity to Hayden from and after January 1, 1983. As of December 31, 1997, approximately 71.1% of the obligation has been delivered. Delivery is expected to be completed in the year 2004. (7) Coal requirements of Hayden. (8) The contract minimum quantity varies by year during the agreement. (9) Not specified in the contract. (10) The contract maximum sulfur content as presented in the table is stated in pounds of sulfur per million Btu.
Each coal contract contains adjustment clauses which permit periodic price increases or decreases. Powder River Basin coal supplies for PSCo's Arapahoe, Pawnee and Comanche stations are transported by the Burlington Northern Sante Fe Railway Company under two contracts which have remaining terms of one year for Arapahoe and three years for Pawnee and Comanche. Colorado origin coal supplies for PSCo's Cherokee and
Valmont stations are anticipated to be transported by the Union Pacific Railroad Company to Cherokee and by a joint haul of the Union Pacific Railroad Company and Burlington Northern Sante Fe Railway Company to Valmont under two contracts with remaining terms of five and two years, respectively.
SPS purchases all of its coal requirements for Harrington and Tolk Stations from TUCO, in the form of crushed, ready-to-burn coal delivered by coal-handling facilities owned by Wheelabrator Coal Services Co. to the SPS's boiler bunkers located within SPS's coal-fueled stations where it is processed for burning. The contract for the Harrington station expires in 2016 and the contract for the Tolk station expires in 2017. The coal is transported for TUCO by rail, primarily from mines located in Wyoming, to TUCO's stockpiles which are adjacent to SPS's coal-burning generation stations. At December 31, 1997, TUCO's coal inventories at the Harrington and Tolk sites were approximately 41 days usage. TUCO has executed a long-term coal supply agreement with Kennecott Energy Company affiliated companies to supply approximately 55% of Harrington's projected requirements through 2001 from Cordero, Caballo Rojo and Antelope mines located in the Powder River Basin. In addition, TUCO has contracted for approximately 33% of Harrington's 1998 projected requirements with Kennecott's affiliate, Colowyo Coal Company, from its Colowyo mine located in western Colorado. The Colowyo agreement provides for delivery to Harrington station via the Union Pacific Railroad. TUCO has long term contracts with ARCO for supply of coal in sufficient quantities to meet all of SPS's needs for Tolk Station. Specific coal reserves in the Powder River Basin in Wyoming have been dedicated by ARCO to meet the contract quantities. The Powder River Basin coal supplies for both stations are currently transported for TUCO by the Burlington Northern Sante Fe Railway Company to Harrington Station near Amarillo, Texas and to Tolk Station near Muleshoe, Texas. Transportation charges for these Powder River Basin coal supplies make up more than 50% of the total cost of the coal delivered to the boiler.
See Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies - Purchase Requirements in Item 8. Financial Statements And Supplementary Data for information regarding financial commitments under the coal supply contracts, as well as the coal transportation contracts.
Natural Gas and Fuel Oil
PSCo uses both firm and interruptible natural gas and standby oil in combustion turbines and certain boilers. Natural gas supplies for PSCo's power plants are procured under short- and intermediate-term contracts on a competitive basis to provide an adequate supply of fuel. SPS has a number of contracts of short and intermediate terms with natural gas suppliers operating in gas fields with long life expectancies in or near its service area. SPS also utilizes firm and interruptible transportation to minimize fuel costs during volatile market conditions and provide reliability of supply. To increase competition for natural gas supply, SPS attained three new interconnections between interstate and intrastate pipelines and various power plant supply headers during 1997. SPS maintains sufficient gas supplies under short and intermediate term contracts to meet all power plant requirements; however, due to flexible contract terms, approximately 40% of SPS's gas requirements were purchased under spot agreements.
Natural Gas Utility Operations
During the period 1993-1997, PSCo and Cheyenne have experienced growth in the number of residential and commercial customers ranging from 2.7% to 3.2% annually. Since 1993, residential and commercial gas volumes sold have averaged 132.9 million dekatherms ("MMDth") annually. The growth of residential and commercial sales has steadily improved due primarily to stronger economic conditions in Colorado and Wyoming. PSCo and Cheyenne offer transportation services to their large commercial and industrial customers, allowing these customers to purchase gas directly from their suppliers. The per-unit fee charged for transportation services, while significantly less than the per-unit fee charged for the sale of gas to a similar customer, provides an operating margin approximately equivalent to the margin earned on gas sold. Therefore, increases in such activities will not have as great an impact on gas revenues as increases in deliveries from the sale of gas, but will have a positive impact on operating margin. During 1997, transportation services generated revenues of $32.7 million compared to $28.5 million in 1996 and $23.8 million in 1995.
Natural Gas Supply and Storage
PSCo and Cheyenne have attempted to maintain low cost, reliable natural gas supplies by optimizing a balance of long- and short-term gas purchase, firm transportation and gas storage contracts. During 1997, PSCo and Cheyenne purchased 151.0 MMDth from approximately 72 suppliers, including the following major suppliers: CIG (32.0 MMDth); Western Gas Resources (14.0 MMDth); Amoco Energy Trading Co. (11.6 MMDth); Barrett Resources (11.4 MMDth); and Duke Energy Trading & Marketing (6.1 MMDth). In 1997, the average delivered cost per one thousand dekatherms ("MDth") for PSCo and Cheyenne was $2.92 compared to $2.58 per MDth in 1996 and $2.22 per MDth in 1995 (see Item 7. Management's Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results Of Operations). Purchased gas costs are recovered from customers through the GCA (see Note 9. Regulatory Matters in Item 8. Financial Statements And Supplementary Data).
PSCo and Cheyenne have completed substantially all of their obligations related to gas supply transportation and storage contracts which resulted from FERC Order 636. During 1996, PSCo and Cheyenne entered into new contracts with CIG and others for firm transportation and gas storage services with terms of 5-10 years. Adequate supplies of natural gas are currently available for delivery within the Rocky Mountain region. PSCo and Cheyenne continually evaluate the natural gas markets and procure supplies, as needed, to meet current and anticipated customer demand.
Regulation and Rates
Regulation
General
The NCE system is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC under the PUHCA. The PUHCA generally limits the operations of a registered holding company to a single integrated public utility system, plus such additional businesses as are functionally related to such system. PUHCA rules require that transactions between associated companies in a registered holding company system be performed at cost, with limited exceptions.
PSCo
PSCo is subject to the jurisdiction of the CPUC with respect to its facilities, rates, accounts, services and issuance of securities. The CPUC consists of three full-time members appointed by the Governor and approved by the Colorado Senate. Only two members may be from the same political party.
PSCo is subject to the jurisdiction of the DOE through the FERC with respect to its wholesale electric operations and accounting practices and policies. PSCo is also subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC in connection with its ownership, decommissioning and defueling of Fort St. Vrain, which has been repowered as a gas fired combined cycle steam plant.
PSCo holds a FERC certificate which allows it to transport natural gas in interstate commerce pursuant to the provisions of the Natural Gas Act, the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 and FERC Order Nos. 436 and 500 without PSCo becoming subject to full FERC jurisdiction.
SPS
The PUCT has jurisdiction over SPS's Texas operations as an electric utility, and original and appellate jurisdiction over its retail rates and services. The Texas municipalities exercise original jurisdiction over rates within their respective city limits. The NMPUC, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission and the Kansas Corporation Commission have jurisdiction with respect to retail rates and services in their respective states. The FERC has jurisdiction over SPS's rates for sales of electricity for resale.
Other
Cheyenne is subject to the jurisdiction of the WPSC. WGI and TOP are subject to FERC jurisdiction. WGI and TOP each hold a FERC certificate which allows them to transport natural gas in interstate commerce pursuant to the provisions of the Natural Gas Act. e prime and TOG have authorization from FERC to act as power marketers.
Cost Recovery Mechanisms
PSCo
At December 31, 1997, PSCo has four adjustment clauses: the ICA (which replaced the ECA in 1996), GCA, DSMCA and QFCCA. These adjustment clauses allow certain costs to be passed through to retail customers. PSCo is required to file applications with the CPUC for approval of adjustment mechanisms in advance of the proposed effective date. The applications must be acted upon before becoming effective.
The CPUC decision on the Merger modified and replaced the ECA with the ICA. The ICA, which became effective October 1, 1996, allows for a 50%/50% sharing of certain fuel and energy cost increases and decreases among customers and shareholders. PSCo, through its GCA, is allowed to recover the difference between its actual costs of purchased gas and the amount of these costs recovered under its base rates. The GCA rate is revised annually on October 1 and otherwise as needed, to coincide with changes in purchased gas costs. Purchased gas costs and revenues received to recover such gas costs are compared on a monthly basis and differences, including interest, are deferred. The QFCCA was implemented on December 1, 1993. Under the QFCCA, all purchased capacity costs from new QF projects, not otherwise reflected in base electric rates, are recoverable.
PSCo, in a collaborative process with public interest groups, consumers and industry, has developed DSM programs (programs designed to reduce peak electricity demand, shift on-peak demand to off-peak hours and provide for more efficient operation of the electric generation system), including incentive and cost recovery mechanisms. The CPUC approved the programs in 1993 along with a schedule to be implemented over a three-year period. Effective July 1, 1993, PSCo implemented a DSMCA clause which permits it to recover deferred DSM costs over seven years while non-labor incremental expenses, carrying costs associated with deferred DSM costs and certain incentives associated with the approved DSM programs are recovered on an annual basis.
The CPUC subsequently opened a separate docket to investigate issues involving alternative annual revenue reconciliation mechanisms and incentive mechanisms related to PSCo's DSM programs. The investigation was completed in 1995 and a final order was issued. The major provisions of the final order, effective December 27, 1995, included: 1) not to proceed with any of the proposed mechanisms; 2) to reduce the recovery period for certain costs of PSCo's DSM programs from seven to five years for expenditures made on or after January 1, 1995; 3) not to establish DSM targets for 1997 and 1998; 4) not to adopt a penalty for failure to achieve DSM targets; and 5) to approve PSCo's proposal to forego incentive payments for DSM programs.
Under a separate CPUC order issued in December 1992, PSCo has implemented a Low-Income Energy Assistance Program. The costs of this energy conservation and weatherization program for low-income customers are recoverable through the DSMCA.
SPS
Fuel and purchased power costs are recoverable in Texas through a fixed fuel factor which is part of SPS's rates. If it appears that the factor will materially over-recover or under-recover these costs, the factor may be revised upon application by SPS or action by the PUCT. The rule requires refunding and surcharging under/over-recovery amounts including interest when they exceed 4% of the utility's annual fuel and purchased power costs, as allowed by the PUCT, if this condition is expected to continue. Under the PUCT's regulations, SPS is required to file an application for the PUCT to retrospectively review at least every three years the operations of SPS's electricity generation and fuel management activities. SPS will file a reconciliation in 1998
for the generation and fuel management activities of approximately $690 million for the three year period ended December 31, 1997.
On October 24, 1997, the NMPUC approved a fixed fuel factor for SPS's New Mexico retail jurisdiction, effective January 1998. This will employ an over/under fuel collection calculation made on a monthly basis. SPS will petition for a change in the fixed fuel factor if the over/under recovery balance reaches $5 million. In addition, on an annual basis SPS will file the utility's electric generation and fuel management activities. The methodology of the over/under calculation, plus interest, is similar to the Texas fixed fuel factor calculation discussed above.
In all other jurisdictions, SPS currently recovers substantially all increases and refunds substantially all decreases in fuel and purchased power costs pursuant to monthly adjustment and clauses.
Cheyenne
Purchased power and gas costs are recoverable in Wyoming. Cheyenne is required to file applications with the WPSC for approval of adjustment mechanisms in advance of the proposed effective date.
See Note 9. Regulatory Matters in Item 8. Financial Statements And Supplementary Data for additional discussion.
Environmental Matters
Certain of the Company's subsidiary facilities are regulated by federal and state environmental agencies. These agencies have jurisdiction over air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid wastes and hazardous substances. Various Company activities require registrations, permits, licenses, inspections and approvals from these agencies. The Company has received all necessary authorizations for the construction and continued operation of its generation, transmission and distribution systems. Company facilities have been designed and constructed to operate in compliance with the environmental standards. During 1997, the EPA issued new regulations regarding particulate emissions. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of these new regulations on its operations.
The Company's utility subsidiaries have applied for an early election of annual NOx emission limits for eleven units including six PSCo units: Cherokee Units 3 and 4, Valmont Unit 5, Pawnee Unit 1, and Comanche Units 1 and 2 and five SPS units: Harrington Station Units 1, 2 and 3 and Tolk Station Units 1 and 2. In 1997, the Company met early emission limits for these eleven units. Early election limit is applicable until the year 2008.
The Company and its subsidiaries continue to strive to achieve compliance with all environmental regulations currently applicable to its operations. However, it is not possible at this time to determine when or to what extent additional facilities or modifications of existing or planned facilities will be required as a result of changes to environmental regulations, interpretations or enforcement policies or, generally, what effect future laws or regulations may have upon the Company's operations. See Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies - Environmental Issues in Item 8. Financial Statements And Supplementary Data for additional discussion. At December 31, 1997, the estimated 1998, 1999 and 2000 expenditures for environmental air and water emission control facilities were $57.9 million, $24.3 million and $14.7 million, respectively (see Item 7. Management's Discussion and analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations).
Competition
Industry Outlook
Unprecedented change is continuing to occur in the electric utility industry nationwide, furthering the development of a competitive environment. In general, the economics of the electric generation business have fundamentally changed with open transmission access and the increased availability of electric supply alternatives. Such alternatives will likely serve to lower customer prices, particularly in areas where only higher cost energy is currently provided. Customer demands for lower prices and supplier choices, the availability of alternative supplies (IPPFs, QFs, EWGs and power marketers), and open access to the utility transmission grid have resulted in a commodity market for bulk electric supply. The EPAct directly addressed this issue by giving the FERC the authority to require utilities to provide non-discriminatory open access to the transmission grid for purposes of providing wholesale customers with direct access. In response to such authority, in early 1996, the FERC issued new rules on open access transmission services. A number of states have recently adopted or are pursuing plans for competition in the electric utility industry. Legislative and regulatory initiatives are likely to result in even greater competition at both the wholesale and retail level in the future.
The presence of competition and the associated pressure on prices may ultimately lead to the unbundling of products and services similar to what has evolved in the natural gas industry. Today's market view of the future envisions an unbundled electric utility industry consisting of at least four major business segments: energy supply, transmission, distribution and energy services.
PUHCA
The SEC has also responded to increasing competition in the utility industry and changes in state and federal utility regulation. In June 1995, the SEC issued its report which focused on both legislative and administrative options for the reform of public utility holding company regulation. The report presented three possible recommendations for legislative reform of PUHCA: 1) conditional repeal of PUHCA, 2) unconditional repeal of PUHCA, and 3) PUHCA remains unmodified, but grants the SEC broader exemptive authority under PUHCA. Any changes in regulation will be determined by Congress. In early 1997, legislation was introduced in Congress that would have repealed PUHCA and transferred certain federal authority to the FERC as recommended in the SEC report as part of broader legislation regarding changes in the electric industry. This legislation is likely to be debated on the Senate floor in April 1998. This legislation was not passed; however, the Company expects that a number of bills regarding the restructuring of the electric utility industry will continue to be considered in the current Congress.
Retail Electric Business
Today, the retail electric business faces increasing competition from industrial and large commercial customers who have the ability to own or operate facilities to generate their own electric energy requirements. In addition, customers may have the option of substituting fuels, such as natural gas for heating, cooling and manufacturing purposes rather than electric energy, or the option of relocating their facilities to a lower cost environment. While each of the Company's utility subsidiaries face these challenges, these subsidiaries believe their rates are competitive with currently available alternatives. The Company's utility subsidiaries are taking actions to lower operating costs and are working with their customers to analyze the feasibility of various options, including energy efficiency, load management and cogeneration in order to better position the Company's utility subsidiaries to more effectively operate in a competitive environment.
State Regulatory and Legislative Environments - Electric Business
Below is a discussion on the regulatory and legislative initiatives currently being addressed in each of the Company's retail jurisdictions related to the electric business.
Colorado - Colorado law permits the CPUC to authorize rates negotiated with individual electric and gas customers who have threatened to discontinue using the services of PSCo, so long as the CPUC finds that such authorization: 1) in the case of electric rates, will not adversely affect PSCo's remaining customers and 2) in the case of gas rates, will not affect PSCo's remaining customers as adversely as would the alternative. In response to the increasingly competitive operating environment for utilities, the regulatory climate is also changing. In 1996, the CPUC opened an inquiry docket related to electric utility restructuring. PSCo submitted a response to a CPUC sponsored restructuring questionnaire which was followed by the CPUC issuing a report on a comprehensive survey on electric industry restructuring. The CPUC is currently working with the Colorado General Assembly in its investigation and implementation of public policy. The CPUC has no electric restructuring authority without legislative mandate.
During December 1997, PSCo submitted a draft bill relating to electric utility industry restructuring and customer choice. The principles of the proposed bill include: all customers must have the opportunity to benefit; the reliability of electric service must be maintained; all energy suppliers must be subject to the same laws and regulations; the price of electric energy and electric generation capacity must be determined solely by market forces; generation, transmission and distribution may be functionally separated and the transmission and distribution functions will remain subject to regulation; and each electric utility must have a good reasonable opportunity to recover its stranded costs. PSCo will continue to participate in regulatory proceedings which could change or impact current regulation. PSCo believes it will continue to be subject to Colorado rate regulation that will allow for the recovery of all of its deferred costs (see Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Business, Utility Operation and Regulation - Regulatory Assets and Liabilities and Note 9. Regulatory Matters in Item 8. Financial Statements And Supplementary Data).
Texas - Texas legislation enacted in 1995 recognizes the movement to a more competitive market-place by requiring the PUCT to issue new regulations relating to, among other things, allowance of less than fully costed rates in wholesale and retail markets; recognition of and essentially waiving all Texas utility regulation of EWGs and power marketers; and implementation of transmission access comparable to the owning utility's use of its transmission system for non-FERC regulated utilities.
In the 1997 session, Texas introduced legislative proposals relating to retail wheeling; however, the Texas legislature adjourned without adopting any legislation on this issue. There will be no general session in 1998 in Texas. A Senate Interim Committee on Electric Utility Restructuring began a series of statewide hearings in late 1997. The hearings will continue in 1998 in order to solicit public input on a series of statewide issues relating to retail competition in Texas. This information will be used by the Committee to make recommendations on restructuring legislation for the 1999 session. SPS believes it will continue to be subject to rate regulation that will allow for recovery of all of its deferred costs (see Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Business, Utility Operations and Regulation - Regulatory Assets and Liabilities and Note 9. Regulatory Matters in Item 8. Financial Statements And Supplementary Data).
New Mexico - In 1997 the NMPUC approved Case 2718, "Texas-New Mexico Power Company's TNP's Community Choice Plan." The plan calls for all TNP customers to be able to choose their energy supplier by April 1, 2003.
The New Mexico legislature rejected all retail wheeling proposals in 1997. Following the 1997 session, the NMPUC initiated Case 2681, the "Investigation of Electric Utility Restructuring", which called for a "collaborative process" that involved utilities, consumer groups, environmental groups, and other interested stakeholders. The NMPUC encouraged the parties to attempt to reach a consensus on a retail choice plan for New Mexico, but the effort was unsuccessful. On January 28, 1998, the NMPUC issued its final report in case 2681. The NMPUC found that it is in the public interest for the State of New Mexico to advance changes in the structure and regulation of the electric industry, and recommends that restructuring proposals should continue to be brought before the legislature. The New Mexico legislature has a 30 day budget session in 1998.
Wyoming - In January 1998, the Joint Minerals, Business and Economic Development Interim Committee voted against moving forward with draft legislation entitled the "Wyoming Electric Restructuring
Act." The 9-5 vote inhibits the progress of the draft during the brief 1998 legislative session of 20 days, unless further acted upon by individual legislators. The draft was a collaborative effort which included the Legislative Subcommittee on Electric Industry Re-regulation, the WPSC, utilities and consumer interest groups. The 1998 legislative session began in February.
A joint committee of the Wyoming legislature began a series of hearings on restructuring in June of 1997. On September 15, 1997, a report entitled the "Study of the Potential Economic Impacts of Electric Restructuring on the State of Wyoming," which was prepared for the WPSC by an external consultant, was made public. The report analyzed four different restructuring scenarios and concluded overall that restructuring would have only a small impact on rates.
Kansas -- In December 1997, the Task Force On Retail Wheeling presented its final report to the 1998 Kansas Legislature. The report culminated a study that was authorized by House Bill 2600 which was signed by the Governor on April 26, 1996. Additionally, this legislation imposed a three-year freeze on retail electric wheeling. The task force, which consisted of lawmakers and utility industry representatives, studied numerous issues, including the actions of the FERC; the obligation of electric utilities to serve customers; the recovery of stranded costs; the unbundling of generation, transmission, and distribution services. The report concluded with draft legislation entitled the "Electric Utility Restructuring Act." A 90-day legislative work session, which began January 12, 1998, will also be looking at three other comprehensive electric restructuring bills, along with two other related measures, which were held over from the 1997 session.
Oklahoma - The Electric Restructuring Act of 1997 was signed by the Governor of Oklahoma on April 25, 1997. This legislation directs a series of studies which will define the orderly transition to consumer choice of electric energy supplier by July 1, 2002. The studies include: Taxation Issues, Independent System Operator ("ISO"), Technical Issues, Financial Issues, and Consumer Issues. The Joint Electric Utility Force, a legislative entity, is in place to oversee the actions of the Oklahoma Corporation Commission, which is the state's regulatory agency. The Oklahoma Corporation Commission has been granted the authority to work alongside electric utilities and other industry interests and consumer groups in order to examine several key concerns. Unbundling of Rates and Services; Ceiling for Rates; Stranded Cost Recovery; Reliability and Safety; Transition Costs are included in the focus. Results and recommendations derived from the studies will direct any further legislative action that may be necessary in order for the Electric Restructuring Act of 1997 to be fully implemented. The ISO study report was presented on January 27, 1998. It is expected that the Taxation Issues study, which began in April 1997, and the Technical Issues study will conclude by December 31, 1998.
Wholesale Electric
The wholesale electric business faces increasing competition in the supply of bulk power due to provisions of the EPAct and Federal and state initiatives with respect to providing open access to utility transmission systems. Under the FERC rules issued in early 1996, utilities are required to provide wholesale open-access transmission services consistent with what is provided for in their own operations. The Company's utility subsidiaries are operating with the tariffs approved by the FERC under these rules. To date, these provisions have not had a material impact on the Company's utility subsidiaries operations. For 1997, the Company's consolidated wholesale revenues totaled approximately 15% of total electric revenues. A substantial portion of these revenues related to firm sales contracts, which are expected to continue at current levels for a minimum of 10 years.
Natural Gas
Changes in regulatory policies and market forces have begun to shift the industry from traditional cost-based regulation involving gas sales, transportation, storage and other related services on a bundled basis toward market-based sales on an unbundled basis. In 1993, the FERC accelerated the process of unbundling the commodity supply component from the physical delivery component of natural gas retail sales service. In recent years, numerous state initiatives have been developed to continue this unbundling process down to the residential and small commercial customers. The goal of unbundling is to offer customers choice of gas suppliers. In 1996,
the CPUC opened an investigatory docket concerning the issue of unbundling natural gas services. At this time, no formal action is expected from the CPUC mandating the unbundling of gas utilities. PSCo expects that a gas unbundling bill will be proposed in the Colorado Legislature in 1998 providing the CPUC the authority to allow for full unbundling at the retail level. PSCo plans to participate fully in any such legislative efforts and in any other regulatory proceedings which could change or impact current regulation.
The natural gas delivery or transportation business has remained competitive as industrial and large commercial customers have the ability to "by-pass" the local gas utility through the construction of interconnections directly with, and the purchase of gas directly from, interstate pipelines, thereby avoiding the delivery charges added by the local gas utility. PSCo and Cheyenne have and will continue to aggressively pursue the retention of all of these customers on their systems.
PSCo and Cheyenne extend and operate their distribution system primarily by virtue of non-exclusive franchises granted by the various cities and towns. Such franchise agreements are approved by their respective state commissions. Because the franchises are non-exclusive, PSCo and Cheyenne can be faced with the threat of intrusion into their gas territory by third parties. PSCo and Cheyenne hold territorial certificates for a portion of their gas service territory giving them the exclusive right to extend their distribution system and provide natural gas sales and transportation service. However, for the majority of their gas service territory, no such territorial certificates exist.
Franchises
PSCo held nonexclusive franchises to provide electric or gas service or both services in approximately 121 incorporated cities and towns at December 31, 1997. These franchises consist of 69 combined gas and electric service franchises, 28 electric service franchises and 24 gas service franchises. In 1998, PSCo expects to re-negotiate three of the franchise agreements which will be expiring. PSCo's franchise with the City of Denver will expire in 2006. PSCo supplies electric or gas service or both services in about 114 unincorporated communities.
SPS held franchises to provide electric service in approximately 104 cities and towns at December 31, 1997.
Foreign Investments
Yorkshire Electricity
On April 1, 1997, Yorkshire Power, a subsidiary equally owned by PSCo and AEP, indirectly acquired substantially all of the outstanding ordinary shares of Yorkshire Electricity, a United Kingdom regional electricity company. PSCo holds its investment in Yorkshire Power through its wholly-owned subsidiary, NCI. The total consideration paid by Yorkshire Power was approximately $2.4 billion (1.5 billion pounds sterling). Yorkshire Electricity's main businesses are the distribution and supply of electricity and the supply of gas and its service territory is one of the region's largest with approximately 2.1 million customers.
In July 1997, the U.K. government enacted a windfall tax on certain privatized business entities which is payable in two installments. The windfall tax was a retroactive adjustment to the privatization value based on post-privatization profits during the 1992 - 1995 period. During the third quarter of 1997, Yorkshire Power recorded an extraordinary charge of approximately $221 million (135 million pounds sterling) for this windfall tax. PSCo's share of this tax is approximately $110.6 million. See Note 2. Acquisition of Yorkshire Electricity and U.K. Windfall Tax in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for summary financial information on Yorkshire Power.
Other foreign investments
The Company owns other foreign investments through various non-regulated subsidiaries; however, at this time, these investments are not significant to the Company's consolidated assets. See Non-Utility Operations below for a more detailed discussion on the Company's non-utility subsidiaries.
Service Company
NCS, a wholly-owned subsidiary of NCE, was incorporated in 1997 under the laws of the State of Delaware. NCS is the service company for the NCE system and provides a variety of administrative, management, engineering, construction, environmental and support services. NCS provides its services to the NCE system generally at cost, pursuant to service agreements approved by the SEC under PUHCA.
Non-Utility Operations
NC Enterprises, a wholly-owned subsidiary of NCE, was incorporated in 1997 under the laws of the State of Delaware. NC Enterprises was incorporated to serve as a holding company for non-utility subsidiaries of NCE. NC Enterprises currently has the following five subsidiaries: Quixx, UE, e prime, Natural Fuels and New Century Cadence. The table presented below provides certain financial information regarding each subsidiary of NC Enterprises, followed by a discussion of the operations of the subsidiaries.
New Natural Century Quixx UE e prime Fuels Cadence ----- -- ------- ----- ------- (Millions of Dollars)
Operating revenues $ 14.8 $ 52.3 $196.7 $ 6.9 $ - Total assets 79.8 55.5 73.5 10.2 2.2 NC Enterprise's Net investment at 12/31/97 77.1 42.0 21.1 4.8 1.9
Quixx: Quixx was incorporated in 1985 under the laws of the State of Texas. Quixx's primary business is investing in and developing cogeneration and energy-related projects. Quixx also holds water rights and certain other nonutility assets. Quixx operates, as a division, Amarillo Railcar Services, a railcar maintenance facility that provides inspection, light and heavy maintenance, and storage for unit trains. A majority of these services are provided for railcars that transport coal for use by SPS. Quixx also finances sales of heat pumps and markets other non-utility goods and services. Quixx currently has the following wholly-owned subsidiaries, most of which hold partnership interests in various energy-related limited partnerships:
Quixx Jamaica, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Quixx, holds a 99% limited partnership interest in KES Jamaica, L.P. which owns a facility consisting of two-oil fired combustion turbines located in Montego Bay, Jamaica, W.I. The remaining 1% general partnership interest is owned by KES Montego, Inc. a wholly-owned subsidiary of Quixx. As of December 31, 1997, Quixx is in the process of winding up operations of this subsidiary.
Quixx Jamaica Power, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Quixx, is currently inactive.
Quixx Mustang Station, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Quixx, was created to hold Quixx's 0.5% interest in Denver City Energy Associates, L.P., a partnership which owns a 50% interest in Mustang Station, a 488 MW combined cycle generating facility which is scheduled for completion in 1998. Quixx will also hold a 49.5% interest in Denver City Energy Associates, LP through Quixx Resources, Inc. a wholly-owned subsidiary of Quixx.
Quixxlin Corp, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Quixx, was created to hold a 0.5% general partnership interest in Quixx Linden, L.P., which will construct a 23 MW natural gas fired cogeneration facility located in Linden, New Jersey. It is estimated that this facility will be completed in mid-1998. Quixx also directly holds a 49.5% limited partnership interest in Quixx Linden, L.P.
Quixx Borger Cogen, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Quixx, will hold a 0.5% general partnership interest in Borger Energy Associates, L.P., which will own a cogeneration plant that will be located at the Phillips Petroleum Refinery Complex near Borger, Texas. Quixx Resources, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Quixx, will hold a 49.5% limited partnership interest in this same partnership.
Quixx WPP94, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Quixx, holds a 0.33% general partnership interest in Windpower Partners, 1994 L.P. Windpower Partners, 1994 L.P. owns a 35 MW wind generation facility in Culberson County, Texas. Quixx also directly holds a 24.67% limited partnership interest in Windpower Partners, 1994 L.P.
Quixx Louisville, L.L.C., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Quixx, owns a facility consisting of two gas-fired boilers providing steam to a DuPont plant in Louisville, Kentucky.
Quixx Power Services, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Quixx, operates and maintains certain cogeneration facilities.
Quixx WRR, L.P., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Quixx, holds Quixx's water rights located in Roberts, Gray, Hutchinson and Carson Counties, Texas. Quixx holds a 1% general partnership interest and through Quixx Resources, Inc. a 99% limited partnership interest in Quixx WRR, L.P.
Quixx holds a 50% interest in Mosbacher Power Group and Mosbacher Power International, which are independent power development companies with interests in the development stage in Cambodia and Colombia.
Quixx Carolina, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Quixx, holds a 1% general partnership interest in Carolina Energy Limited Partnership, a waste-to-energy cogeneration facility. Quixx also holds a 32.33% limited partnership interest in this same partnership. In June 1997, Quixx wrote off its investment of approximately $13.64 million in the Carolina Energy Limited Partnership (see Note 3. Acquisition and Divestiture of Investments in Item 8. Financial Statements And Supplementary Data).
Quixx holds a 49% limited partnership interest in BCH Energy Limited Partnership, a waste-to-energy facility located near Fayetteville, North Carolina. In December 1996, Quixx wrote off its entire investment in this project of approximately $16 million (See Note 3. Acquisition and Divestiture of Investments in Item 8. Financial Statements And Supplementary Data).
UE: UE was incorporated in 1985 under the laws of the State of Texas. UE is engaged in engineering, design, construction management and other miscellaneous services. UE currently has two wholly-owned subsidiaries - - Universal Utility Services Company and Precision Resource Company. Universal Utility Services Company provides cooling tower maintenance and repair, certain other industrial plant improvement services, and engineered maintenance of high voltage plant electric equipment. Precision Resource Company provides contract professional and technical resources for customers in the energy industrial sectors. UE also owns a 49% interest in Vista Environmental Services, LLC, which performs environmental consulting for energy and industrial customers in both the private and government sectors, primarily in the southwestern United States.
e prime: e prime was incorporated in 1995 under the laws of the state of Colorado. e prime provides energy related products and services which include, but are not limited to, electric and gas brokering, marketing and trading, and energy consulting. e prime has also pursued international energy investment opportunities. In March of 1996, e prime received authorization from the FERC to act as a power marketer. In September of 1996, e prime acquired TOG, a gas marketing company, with headquarters in Houston and an office in Boston. e prime and TOG have merged operations and together they provide value-added energy related products and services to
over 2,200 end use customers and utilities nationwide. Additionally, e prime currently owns the following subsidiaries (subsidiaries formed, but inactive have been excluded):
TOP is a small pipeline company which connects two major interstate pipelines.
YGSC owns a 47.5% general partnership interest in Young Storage which owns and operates an underground gas storage facility in northeastern Colorado.
e prime Projects International, Inc. and e prime Operating, Inc. were formed to hold and operate investments in EWG's and foreign utility companies, which in 1997 included the purchase and subsequent sale of a 25% interest in a 608 mw coal-fired electric power plant near Topar, Karaganda, the Republic of Kazakstan.
e prime also holds a 50% ownership interest in Johnstown Cogeneration, a limited liability company.
Natural Fuels: Natural Fuels was incorporated in 1990 under the laws of the State of Colorado. Natural Fuels sells compressed natural gas as a transportation fuel to retail markets, converts vehicles for natural gas usage, constructs fueling facilities, and sells miscellaneous fueling facility equipment. Natural Fuels has a 50% ownership interest in Natural/Total Limited Liability Company, which owns and operates natural gas fueling stations located at Total Petroleum Gas Stations in Colorado. Natural Fuels has a 25% ownership interest in Natural/Peoples Limited Liability Company which owns and operates one natural gas fueling station located in Castle Rock, Colorado. Additionally, Natural Fuels has a 67% ownership interest through Natural/Total in Natural/Total/KN Limited Partnership, a partnership which owns the profits interest in the natural gas fueling stations located at Total Petroleum sites in the Colorado towns of Grand Junction and Glenwood Springs.
New Century Cadence: New Century Cadence was incorporated in 1997 under the laws of the State of Colorado. New Century Cadence was created to hold a 1/3 interest in Cadence Network LLC, an energy-related company which provides energy management and consulting services, as well as brokering and marketing of energy commodities. Specifically, Cadence Network LLC will provide a single source for both energy management services and products designed to lower energy costs for national companies that operate at multiple locations. Cadence Network LLC is equally owned by New Century Cadence, Cinergy-Cadence, Inc. (a subsidiary of Cinergy, Inc.) and Progress Holdings, Inc. (a subsidiary of Florida Progress Holdings, Inc.)
Employees
The number of employees in the NCE system at December 31, 1997 is presented in the table below. Of the employees listed below, approximately 2,938, or 47%, are covered under collective bargaining agreements. For further information, see Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies - Union Contracts in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
NCE System Employees --------------------
PSCo 3,160 SPS 1,332 NCS 1,325 Cheyenne 100 NC Enterprises 373 --- Total 6,290 =====
Consolidated Electric Operating Statistics (NCE)
Year Ended December 31, ----------------------- 1997 1996 1995(2) ---- ---- ------- Energy Generated, Received & Sold (Thousands of Kwh): Net Generated: Steam, Fossil.................. 33,278,721 32,116,961 37,067,838 Combustion Turbine............. 6,595,055 6,351,117 151,294 Pumped Storage................. 193,834 178,205 68,400 Hydro.......................... 224,898 197,660 208,104 ------- ------- -------
Total Net Generation......... 40,292,508 38,843,943 37,495,636 Energy Used for Pumping........ 300,649 276,983 109,632 ------- ------- -------
Total Net System Input....... 39,991,859 38,566,960 37,386,004 Purchased Power and Net Interchange 11,985,546 10,295,074 10,145,620 ---------- ---------- ----------
Total System Input........... 51,977,405 48,862,034 47,531,624 Used by Company................ 77,734 88,304 1,239,914 Other (1)...................... 1,677,085 1,352,843 1,526,358 --------- --------- --------- Total Energy Sold............ 50,222,586 47,420,887 44,765,352 ========== ========== ==========
Electric Sales (Thousands of Kwh): Residential.................... 9,730,390 9,530,275 8,991,000 Commercial..................... 13,223,936 12,832,091 12,094,269 Industrial..................... 13,789,814 13,729,777 13,433,472 Public Authorities............. 773,656 780,251 736,375 Wholesale - Regulated ......... 11,494,742 10,129,788 9,510,236 Wholesale Energy Services - Non-Regulated .............. 1,210,048 418,705 - --------- ------- ---- Total Energy Sold............ 50,222,586 47,420,887 44,765,352 ========== ========== ==========
Number of Customers at End of Period: Residential.................... 1,285,307 1,269,322 1,237,218 Commercial..................... 185,911 183,928 177,607 Industrial..................... 12,888 12,830 12,274 Public Authorities............. 81,994 80,486 79,819 Wholesale - Regulated ......... 279 235 191 Wholesale Energy Services - Non-Regulated .............. 12 6 - -- ---- ---- Total Customers ........... 1,566,391 1,546,807 1,507,109 ========= ========= =========
Electric Revenues (Thousands of Dollars): Residential.................... $ 692,886 $ 682,966 $ 638,972 Commercial..................... 735,636 738,266 701,135 Industrial..................... 532,276 521,843 526,349 Public Authorities............. 58,235 55,608 50,441 Wholesale - Regulated.......... 412,088 376,315 341,265 Wholesale Energy Services - Non-Regulated .............. 22,861 7,806 - Other Electric Revenues........ 19,377 33,735 25,017 ------ ------ ------ Total Electric Revenues...... $2,473,359 $2,416,539 $2,283,179 ========== ========== ==========
Average Annual Kwh Sales per Residential Customer 7,570 7,508 7,267 Average Annual Revenue per Residential Customer $539.08 $538.06 $516.46 Average Residential Revenue per Kwh .0712 .0717 .0711 Average Commercial Revenue per Kwh .0556 .0575 .0580 Average Industrial Revenue per Kwh .0386 .0380 .0392 Average Wholesale - Regulated Revenue per Kwh .0359 .0371 .0359 _________________________
(1) Primarily includes net distribution and transmission line losses. (2) Reflects the combined historical information of PSCo as of and for the year ended December 31, 1995 with the historical information of SPS as of and for the year ended August 31, 1995.
Consolidated Electric Operating Statistics (PSCo) (1)
Year Ended December 31, ----------------------- 1997 1996 1995 ---- ---- ----
Energy Generated, Received & Sold (Thousands of Kwh): Net Generated: Steam, Fossil.................. 17,586,343 17,099,890 16,053,928 Combustion Turbine............. 154,019 121,079 5,251 Pumped Storage................. 193,834 178,205 68,400 Hydro.......................... 224,898 197,660 208,104 ------- ------- -------
Total Net Generation......... 18,159,094 17,596,834 16,335,683 Energy Used for Pumping........ 300,649 276,983 109,632 ------- ------- -------
Total Net System Input....... 17,858,445 17,319,851 16,226,051 Purchased Power and Net Interchange 11,470,535 10,349,298 9,794,968 ---------- ---------- ---------
Total System Input........... 29,328,980 27,669,149 26,021,019 Used by Company................ 45,492 57,603 64,885 Other (2)...................... 1,659,347 1,352,843 1,526,358 --------- --------- --------- Total Energy Sold............ 27,624,141 26,258,703 24,429,776 ========== ========== ==========
Electric Sales (Thousands of Kwh): Residential.................... 6,662,679 6,606,601 6,281,911 Commercial..................... 10,109,615 9,880,502 9,284,577 Industrial..................... 5,511,722 5,791,608 5,747,534 Public Authorities............. 189,141 200,070 188,363 Wholesale - Regulated ......... 4,490,895 3,361,217 2,927,391 Wholesale Energy Services - Non-Regulated .............. 660,089 418,705 - ------- ------- ---- Total Energy Sold............ 27,624,141 26,258,703 24,429,776 ========== ========== ==========
Number of Customers at End of Period: Residential.................... 976,629 959,249 936,759 Commercial..................... 128,593 126,426 123,277 Industrial..................... 339 380 378 Public Authorities............. 81,209 79,725 79,154 Wholesale - Regulated ......... 33 26 17 Wholesale Energy Services - Non-Regulated .............. 12 6 - ---- ---- ---- Total Customers ........... 1,186,815 1,165,812 1,139,585 ========= ========= =========
Electric Revenues (Thousands of Dollars): Residential.................... $ 503,727 $ 507,233 $ 477,740 Commercial..................... 563,439 571,536 552,905 Industrial..................... 228,925 249,774 257,189 Public Authorities............. 26,778 25,798 23,029 Wholesale - Regulated.......... 145,561 120,478 114,514 Wholesale Energy Services - Non-Regulated .............. 10,448 7,806 - Other Electric Revenues........ 6,318 6,365 23,719 ----- ----- ------ Total Electric Revenues...... $1,485,196 $1,488,990 $1,449,096 ========== ========== ==========
Average Annual Kwh Sales per Residential Customer 6,822 6,965 6,794 Average Annual Revenue per Residential Customer $515.78 $534.79 $516.70 Average Residential Revenue per Kwh .0756 .0768 .0761 Average Commercial Revenue per Kwh .0557 .0578 .0596 Average Industrial Revenue per Kwh .0415 .0431 .0447 Average Wholesale - Regulated Revenue per Kwh .0324 .0358 .0391 _________________________
(1) Includes year-to-date amounts through July 31, 1997 for the subsidiaries transferred in connection with the Merger. (2) Primarily includes net distribution and transmission line losses.
(1) Includes purchases and sales by e prime and TOG. (2) Primarily includes distribution and transmission line losses and net changes to gas in storage. (3) Includes year-to-date amounts through July 31, 1997 for the subsidiaries transferred in connection with the Merger.
Item 2. Properties
PSCo Electric Generation Property
The PSCo electric generating stations expected to be available at the time of the anticipated 1998 net firm system peak demand during the summer season are as follows:
SPS Electric Generation Property
The SPS electric generating stations expected to be available at the time of the anticipated 1998 net firm system peak demand during the summer season are as follows:
Nuclear Generation Property
Fort St. Vrain, near Platteville, PSCo's only former nuclear generating station, ceased operations on August 29, 1989 and on March 22, 1996 the physical decommissioning of the station was completed. The initial phase of the repowered gas fired combined cycle steam electric generating station began commercial operations on May 1, 1996 (see Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies in Item 8. Financial Statements And Supplementary Data).
Electric Transmission Property
PSCo: On December 31, 1997, PSCo's transmission system consisted of approximately 112 circuit miles of 345 Kv overhead lines; 1,942 circuit miles of 230 Kv overhead lines; 15 circuit miles of 230 Kv underground lines; 65 circuit miles of 138 Kv overhead lines; 999 circuit miles of 115 Kv overhead lines; 22 circuit miles of 115 Kv underground lines; 331 circuit miles of 69 Kv overhead lines; 139 circuit miles of 44 Kv overhead lines; and 1 circuit mile of 44 Kv underground lines. PSCo jointly owns with another utility approximately 342 circuit miles of 345 Kv overhead lines and 360 miles of 230 Kv overhead lines, of which PSCo's share is 112 miles and 147 miles, respectively, which shares are included in the amounts listed above.
SPS: On December 31, 1997, SPS's transmission system consisted of approximately 319 circuit miles of 345 Kv overhead lines; 1,598 circuit miles of 230 Kv overhead lines; 2,540 circuit miles of 115 Kv overhead lines; 1,755 circuit miles of 69 Kv overhead lines; 1 circuit mile of 115 Kv underground line; and 5 circuit miles of 69 Kv underground lines.
Interconnections
PSCo: PSCo's transmission facilities are located wholly within Colorado. The system is interconnected with the systems of the following utilities with which PSCo has major firm purchase power contracts; capacity and energy are provided primarily by generating sources in the locations indicated:
Utility Location ------- --------
Basin Electric Power Cooperative................ Southeast Wyoming PacifiCorp ..................................... West & Northwest U.S. Northwest Colorado Platte River Power Authority.................... Northcentral Colorado Tri-State....................................... Southeast Wyoming and Northwest Colorado
PSCo has wheeling agreements with the above, and with other utilities and public power agencies, which are utilized to provide capacity and energy to PSCo's system from time to time.
PSCo is a member of the WSCC, an interstate network of transmission facilities which are owned by public entities and investor-owned utilities. WSCC is the regional reliability coordinating organization for member electric power systems in the western United States. PSCo is also a member of the Western Systems Power Pool which is an economic power pool that operates an electronic bulletin board and acts as a clearinghouse for bulk power transactions among over 90 member utilities and marketers.
SPS: SPS's transmission system is located in parts of Texas, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Kansas. SPS is connected with utilities west of its service territory through two HVDC interconnections in New Mexico and has four interconnecting transmission lines with utilities of the SPP. These interconnections are described in the following table:
Utility Location ------- --------
El Paso Electric Company and Texas-New Mexico Power Company .................................Near Artesia, NM Public Service Company of New Mexico .............Near Clovis, NM Public Service Company of Oklahoma................Near Oklaunion, TX and near Elk City, OK West Texas Utilities..............................Near Shamrock, TX and near Groom TX WestPlains Energy.................................Near Guymon, OK
SPS is a member of the SPP. Transactions with the SPP are handled through interties near Elk City and Guymon, Oklahoma, and Shamrock and Oklaunion, Texas. These interties allow the Company to sell or to purchase energy from the eastern electrical grid. HVDC interconnections link SPS with the western electrical grid of the United States. SPS purchases and sells energy through HVDC interties near Artesia and Clovis, New Mexico.
SPS is a participant in the FERC approved WSPP bulk power market. This arrangement provides for short-term energy and capacity exchanges, transmission services, flexible pricing, and electronic bulletin board posting of available power and energy.
It is presently anticipated that a tie line between Amarillo, Texas and southeastern Colorado will be constructed by the year 2001. The tie line would be approximately 300 miles and the voltage would be 345 Kv. PSCo and SPS have agreed with other utilities to comprehensive procedures for regional planning of the new transmission interconnection. Following the completion of the line, the PSCo and SPS systems will be operated as a single interconnected system.
Electric Distribution Property
The distribution system of the Company's electric subsidiaries consists of both overhead lines and underground distribution systems. PSCo owns approximately 220 substations (30 of which are jointly owned) having an aggregate transformer capacity of 19,167,000 Kva, of which 4,145,827 Kva is step-up transformer capacity at generating stations. SPS owns approximately 348 substations having an aggregate transformer capacity of 19,277,000 Kva, of which 5,951,000 Kva is step-up transformer capacity.
Gas Property
The gas property of PSCo at December 31, 1997 consisted chiefly of approximately 15,362 miles of distribution mains ranging in size from 0.50 to 30 inches and related equipment. The Denver distribution system consisted of 8,888 miles of mains. Pressures in the system are varied to meet load requirements and individual house regulators are installed on each customer's premises to provide uniform flow of gas to appliances. PSCo also owns and operates four gas storage facilities.
Other Property
PSCo's steam heating property at December 31, 1997 consisted of 10.5 miles of transmission, distribution and service lines in the central business district of Denver, including a steam transmission line connecting the steam heating system with Zuni. Steam is supplied from boilers installed at PSCo's Denver Steam Plant which has a capability of 295,000 pounds of steam per hour under sustained load and an additional 300,000 pounds of steam per hour is available from Zuni on a peak demand basis. An additional 80,000 pounds per hour can be supplied as emergency backup through operation of a leased steam heat boiler housed at the State of Colorado. PSCo also owns service and office facilities in Denver and other communities strategically located throughout its service territory.
Property of Subsidiaries
Unregulated subsidiary property is approximately 1% of the total net book value of the properties of the Company and consolidated subsidiaries combined. 1480 Welton, Inc. owns two buildings that are used by PSCo.
Character of Ownership
The steam electric generating stations, the majority of major electric substations owned by the Company and its subsidiaries are on land owned in fee. Approximately half of the compressor stations and a limited number of town border and meter stations are also on land owned in fee. The remaining major electric substations, compressor stations and the majority of gas regulator stations and town border and meter stations are wholly or partially on land leased from others or on or along public highways or on streets or public places within incorporated towns and cities (under franchises or other rights). PSCo's Cabin Creek Pumped Storage Hydroelectric Generating Station, its Shoshone Hydroelectric Generating Station and a portion of the related intake tunnel are located on public lands of the United States. As to substantially all property on or across public lands of the United States, the Company or its subsidiaries hold licenses or permits issued by appropriate Federal agencies or departments. The Leyden gas storage facility is located largely on leased property under leases expiring December 31, 2040. The Company and its utility subsidiaries have the power of eminent domain pursuant to State law to acquire property for their electric and gas facilities. The electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities are for the most part located on land owned by the Company or its subsidiaries pursuant to easements obtained from the record holders of title or are over or under streets, public highways or other public places and on public lands under franchises or other rights. The water rights of the Company and its subsidiaries are owned subject to divestment to the extent of any abandonment thereof.
Substantially all of the utility plant and other physical property owned by the Company's utility subsidiaries is subject to the liens of the respective indentures securing the mortgage bonds of the Company's utility subsidiaries.
Item 3.