Item 2. Properties
Certain parts of the information required by Item 2. are contained in Item 1. Business
Oil & Gas Properties
Additional detailed information describing the types of properties we own can be found in "Business Strategy" under Item 1. Business of this Form 10-K.
Estimated Oil and Natural Gas Reserves and Estimated Future Net Revenues
The SEC sets rules related to reserve estimation and disclosure requirements for oil and natural gas companies. These rules require disclosure of oil and gas proved reserves by significant geographic area, using the trailing 12-month average price, calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, rather than year-end prices, and allows the use of new technologies in the determination of proved reserves if those technologies have been demonstrated empirically to lead to reliable conclusions about reserve
volumes. Subject to limited exceptions, the rules also require that proved undeveloped reserves may only be classified as such if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are scheduled to be drilled within five years.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and estimates of reserves quantities and values must be viewed as being subject to significant change as more data about the properties becomes available.
Estimates of Probable and Possible reserves are inherently imprecise. When producing an estimate of the amount of oil and natural gas that is recoverable from a particular reservoir, Probable reserves are those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than Proved reserves but which, together with Proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered, generally described as having a 50% probability of recovery. Possible reserves are even less certain and generally require only a 10% or greater probability of being recovered. All categories of reserves are continually subject to revisions based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors. Estimates of Probable and Possible reserves are by their nature much more speculative than estimates of Proved reserves and are subject to greater uncertainties, and accordingly the likelihood of recovering those reserves is subject to substantially greater risk. These three reserve categories have not been adjusted to different levels of recovery risk among these categories and are therefore not comparable and are not meaningfully combined.
Estimated pre-tax future net revenues from the production of Proved reserves discounted at 10% or PV-10 is a financial measure that is not recognized by GAAP. We believe that the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measure of PV-10 provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by analysts and investors in evaluating oil and natural gas companies, and that it is relevant and useful for evaluating the relative monetary significance of oil and natural gas properties. Further, analysts and investors may utilize the measure as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our reserves to other companies' reserves. We also use this pre-tax measure when assessing the potential return on investment related to oil and natural gas properties and in evaluating acquisition opportunities. Because there are many unique factors that can impact an individual company when estimating the amount of future income taxes to be paid, we believe the use of a pre-tax measure is valuable for evaluating our Company. PV-10 is not a measure of financial or operating performance under GAAP, nor is it intended to represent the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. PV-10 should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Standardized Measure as defined under GAAP, and reconciled herein this Item 2. Properties.
Summary of Oil & Gas Reserves for Fiscal Year Ended 2017
Our proved, probable and possible reserves at June 30, 2017, denominated in equivalent barrels using a conversion ratio of six MCF of gas and 42 gallons of natural gas liquids to one barrel of oil, were estimated by our independent petroleum engineering firm, DeGolyer and MacNaughton ("D&M"). D&M was selected to estimate reserves for our interests in the Delhi field due to their expertise in CO2-EOR projects and to ensure consistency with the operator. The scope and results of their procedures are summarized in a letter from the firm, which is included as exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved, probable and possible reserves as of June 30, 2017. See Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements for additional unaudited reserve information. The NYMEX previous 12-month unweighted arithmetic average first-day-of-the-month price used to calculate estimated revenues was $48.85 per barrel of crude oil. The net price per barrel of natural gas liquids was $20.48, which does not have any single comparable reference index price. The NGL price was based on historical prices received. For periods for which no historical price information was available, we used comparable pricing in the area. Pricing differentials were applied based on quality, processing, transportation, location and other pricing aspects for each individual property and product.
Reserves as of June 30, 2017
*BOE computed using a conversion ratio of 42 gallons of natural gas liquids to one barrel of oil.
The following tables present a reconciliation of changes in our proved, probable and possible reserves by major property, on the basis of equivalent MBOE quantities.
Reconciliation of Changes in Proved Reserves
Reconciliation of Changes in Probable Reserves
Reconciliation of Changes in Possible Reserves
Reconciliation of PV-10 to the Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows
The following table provides a reconciliation of PV-10 of our proved properties to the Standardized Measure as shown in Note 23 of the consolidated financial statements.
Our sole producing assets as of June 30, 2017 and 2016 were our interests in the Delhi field. Additional information about the properties we own can be found in Item 1. Business.
Internal Controls Over Reserves Estimation Process and Qualifications of Technical Persons with Oversight for the Company's Reserves Estimation Process
Our policies regarding internal controls over reserves estimates require such estimates to be prepared by an independent engineering firm under the supervision of our Chairman of the Board, our Chief Executive Officer and a professional petroleum engineer, serving as either an employee of or consultant to the Company. Such reserves estimates are to be in compliance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles and definitions and guidelines established by the SEC. Our Chairman of the Board holds B.S. and M.E. degrees from Rice University in chemical engineering and earned an M.B.A. from Harvard University. He has over 30 years of experience in engineering, energy transactions, operations and finance with small independents, larger independents and major integrated oil companies. Our Chief Executive Officer holds a Bachelor of Business Administration from the University of Texas at Austin. He has over 30 years of experience in the energy industry, predominantly with upstream oil and gas companies. Our outside consultant for these reserves estimates is a licensed professional engineer with over 30 years of experience in oil and gas operations and petroleum reservoir engineering and holds a Bachelor of Science in Petroleum Engineering from Texas A&M University. In addition, we engaged another consultant with significant experience in CO2 enhanced oil recovery projects to advise us on certain technical matters related to the Delhi field. This consultant has more than 25 years of experience, including service with two large firms which are industry leaders. He is a registered professional engineer and holds a Master of Science in Petroleum Engineering from Texas A&M University.
The reserves information in this filing is based on estimates prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton, our independent engineering firm. The person responsible for preparing the reserves report with D&M is a Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Texas and a Senior Vice President of the firm. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Geology in 1973 from Eastern New Mexico University and earned a Master of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Texas at Austin in 1975. He has over 38 years of oil and gas reservoir experience. We provide our engineering firm with property interests, production, current operating costs, current production prices and other information. This information is reviewed by our Senior Management and outside consultant to ensure accuracy and completeness of the data prior to submission to our independent engineering firm. The scope and results of our independent engineering firm's procedures, as well as their professional qualifications, are summarized in the letter included as exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
After completion of the NGL plant in the Delhi field, our remaining proved undeveloped reserves were 2,108 MBOE at June 30, 2017, with associated future development costs of approximately $14.1 million. Our proved undeveloped reserves are comprised of (a) 1,564 MBOE of reserves and $10.9 million of future development costs associated with the Phase V development in the eastern portion of the field and (b) 544 MBOE of reserves and $3.2 million of future development costs associated with a proposed eight-well infill drilling program to increase production and recover reserves which are not believed to be effectively producible with the existing well configuration. The infill project has aspects of both acceleration of production and an increase in ultimate reserves recovery and is being treated as a proved undeveloped project.
During the year ended June 30, 2017 our proved undeveloped reserves changed as follows:
We converted 1,377 MBOE of undeveloped reserves as the NGL plant was commissioned in December 2016 and initial production commenced. NGL reserves were revised downward 596 MBOE reflecting lower than originally expected plant production partially offset by 91 MBOE of reserves added by the infill project. The 335 MBOE upward revision for oil is due to 453 MBOE infill project reserves partly offset by a 118 MBOE lower estimate for Phase V.
The initial assignment of proved undeveloped reserves in the Delhi field was made on June 30, 2010, which encompassed a large scale CO2 enhanced oil recovery project. The operator’s development plans for the field have remained essentially unchanged and were originally scheduled to be completed by June 30, 2015, within five years from the initial recording of such proved reserves. Developed reserves are approximately 79% of total proved reserves as of June 30, 2017. However, as a result of the adverse fluid release event in the field in June 2013 and the resulting delay in reversion of our working interest, development of the field has not proceeded as originally scheduled. Expansion of the CO2 flood to the remaining undeveloped eastern portion of the field commenced subsequent to reversion of our working interest in late calendar 2014. We incurred $3.8 million of capital expenditures before the operator electively deferred this project as a result of a reduction in its cash flows and capital spending from the significant drop in oil prices. This project was further electively deferred as we began work on the NGL recovery plant in the Delhi field. It was determined that the economics of development of the remaining eastern portion of the field would be significantly improved after the NGL plant was completed.
During the year ended June 30, 2015 we authorized the NGL plant project and incurred $5.0 million of related capital expenditures. During the years ended June 30, 2016 and 2017, the Company incurred a further $16.5 million and $4.8 million, respectively, of NGL plant capital expenditures. The NGL plant was completed in December 2016 and we converted approximately 1,377 MBOE of proved undeveloped reserves to developed reserves during the year ended June 30, 2017.
As of June 30, 2017, we had estimated future net capital expenditures of $10.9 million remaining for development of the eastern part of the field. This work was suspended in late 2014 and further deferred until the NGL recovery plant was complete. We believe this project is economic in the current oil price environment and we expect it to be completed within the next two fiscal years. This would be nine years after the initial recording of proved reserves. During this period, we have been continuously developing the Delhi field and have spent over $35 million subsequent to reversion. We also have approximately $3.2 million of future net capital expenditures associated with the infill drilling program described above. Given the long-term nature of CO2 EOR development projects, we believe that the remaining undeveloped reserves in the Delhi field satisfy the conditions to continue to be treated as proved undeveloped reserves because (1) we initially established the development plan for the Delhi field in 2010 and continue to follow that plan, as adjusted to incorporate the completion of the NGL plant in late 2016 and delays relating to the 2013 fluid release event; (2) we have had significant ongoing development activities at this project that, as budgeted and currently being expended, reflect a significant and sufficient portion of remaining capital expenditures to convert proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves; and (3) the operator has a historical record of completing the development of comparable long-term projects.
As of June 30, 2017, no proved, probable or possible reserves were attributed to (a) the suspended southwestern tip area of the field, (b) the area beneath the inhabited portion of the Town of Delhi in the northeast and (c) the farthest east of the two remaining undeveloped sites in the eastern portion of field (Phase VI) due to the current economics and other technical aspects of our future development plans. In addition, no probable reserves are currently attributed to three smaller reservoirs within the Unit in similar formations with similar production history due to the lower oil price utilized in our reserves calculation. We also
do not have proved or probable reserves associated with the Mengel Sand, a separate interval within the Unit that is not currently producing, which was received in the litigation settlement in June 2016.
Sales Volumes, Average Sales Prices and Average Production Costs
The following table shows the Company's sales volumes and average sales prices received for crude oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas for the periods indicated:
* BOE computed using a conversion ratio of six MCF's of natural gas to one barrel of oil equivalent. Natural gas liquids converted at 42 gallons to one barrel of oil equivalent.
Drilling Activity
Our productive drilling activity during the past three fiscal years ended June 30, 2017 was limited to one fiscal 2015 gross (0.239 net) development well drilled in the Delhi field. We also drilled one gross (0.239 net) water injection well in fiscal 2017 in the Delhi field. No dry wells were drilled in the past three fiscal years.
Present Activities
During fiscal year 2015, we commenced construction of a natural gas liquids ("NGL") recovery plant in the Delhi field, which was completed in December 2016.
During fiscal 2017, we drilled one water injection well as part of a project of four water injection wells connected to the continued development of Phase V in the eastern portion of the Delhi field. We also plan to drill eight infill wells in the field to increase production and ultimate reserves recovery. We have authorized expenditures for these projects totaling approximately $6.0 million. This spending was planned to commence in July 2017, but has been electively deferred by the operator until calendar 2018 based on a near-term capital budget reduction in response to weak oil prices.
For further discussion, see "Highlights for our fiscal year 2017" and "Capital Budget" under Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-K.
Delivery Commitments
As of June 30, 2017, we were not committed to provide a fixed and determinable quantity of oil, NGLs or gas under existing agreements, nor do we currently intend to enter into any such agreements.
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth the number of productive oil and gas wells in which we owned a working interest as of June 30, 2017.
During the year ended June 30, 2017, we transferred one well in the Giddings field back to its previous operator under our contractual arrangement and later plugged and abandoned our two remaining wells in the field as none of the three wells were producing at economic rates in the existing price environment. We have no other wells operated by the Company at this time.
Our remaining wells consist solely of those in the Delhi field. Delhi has an estimated 104 productive oil wells. It also has approximately 45 CO2 injection wells and approximately 20 water injection wells. Certain of these wells may be shut-in from time to time and certain wells can potentially be converted to other purposes. Further, there may be other shut-in or previously abandoned well-bores in the field which can be reactivated. Accordingly, the active well count in the field is subject to change over time.
Acreage Data
The following table sets forth certain information regarding our developed and undeveloped lease acreage as of June 30, 2017. Developed acreage refers to acreage on which wells have been drilled or completed to a point that would permit production of oil and gas in commercial quantities. Undeveloped acreage refers to acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit production of oil and gas in commercial quantities whether or not the acreage contains proved reserves.
When the Company acquired the Delhi field in 2003, the field had been fully developed through primary and secondary recovery and all of such acreage was reflected as developed acreage. With the addition of a CO2-EOR project in the field, certain acreage is now reflected as undeveloped using tertiary recovery operations. We estimate that our developed acreage currently includes 9,126 gross (2,180 net) acres in the Delhi field, with approximately 4,510 gross (1,077 net) acres attributable to the remaining undeveloped areas in the eastern part of the field. We own a 23.9% working interest in the field, along with certain mineral and royalty interests. We are not the operator of the EOR project.
Our interests includes all depths from the surface of the earth to the top of the Massive Anhydride, including the Delhi Holt Bryant Unit, which is currently under CO2 flood, and the Mengel Sand Interval, which is within the boundary of the field, but is currently not producing. As the Delhi field is unitized, all acreage, including any undeveloped, nonproductive or undrilled acreage is held by existing production as long as continuous production is maintained in the unit.
* This table excludes acreage attributable to small overriding royalty interests retained in various formations in the Giddings Field area. None of such acreage is currently producing and our interests are subject to expiration if leases are not maintained by others or commercial production is not established. It does not currently appear likely that we will obtain any significant value from these interests.
For more complete information regarding current year activities, including crude oil and natural gas production, refer to Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-K.
Item 3.