Item 2. Properties
Union Pacific Corporation, incorporated in Utah in 1969, operates, through subsidiaries, in the areas of rail transportation (Union Pacific Railroad Company and Missouri Pacific Railroad Company), oil, gas and mining (Union Pacific Resources Company), trucking (Overnite Transportation Company) and waste management (USPCI, Inc.). Each of these subsidiaries is indirectly wholly-owned by Union Pacific Corporation.
Except as the context otherwise requires, the terms "Union Pacific" or the "Corporation" mean Union Pacific Corporation and its subsidiaries, and the terms "Union Pacific Railroad" or the "Railroad" mean Union Pacific Railroad Company ("UPRR") and Missouri Pacific Railroad Company ("MPRR") and their respective subsidiaries.
A brief description of Union Pacific's principal businesses follows. Additional information about these businesses and other financial information for Union Pacific is presented on pages 14 through 22 and 41 through 44 of the 1993 Annual Report to Stockholders ("Annual Report") and such information (excluding photographs set forth on pages 14 through 22, which do not supplement the text and are not otherwise required to be disclosed herein) is incorporated herein by reference. Information on business segments on page 30 and a map of Union Pacific's operations on the inside back cover of the Annual Report are also incorporated herein by reference.
Recent Developments - -------------------
In May 1993, the Corporation completed the acquisition of Skyway Freight Systems, Inc. ("Skyway"). Skyway is a transportation logistics company primarily engaged in arranging time-definite transportation by motor, rail or air carriers, and in providing transportation information services.
In early 1994, in response to depressed market conditions caused by regulatory uncertainty in the waste management industry, the ongoing delay of remediation activities, and the recent restructurings by several major industry participants, the Corporation began a re-evaluation of USPCI, Inc. ("USPCI"), including its business environment and prospects.
The Corporation has sold its investment in the Wilmington, California, oil field and related facilities to the Port of Long Beach, California, for $405 million. The sale resulted in an after-tax gain of over $100 million, and reduced proved reserves by approximately 13 million barrels of oil equivalent ("MMBOE"). The transaction will not significantly affect the Corporation's future operating results.
Union Pacific Resources Company ("Resources") has entered into an agreement to acquire Amax Oil & Gas Inc. ("Amax"), a subsidiary of Cyprus Amax Minerals Company, for a net purchase price $725 million. Resources will purchase all of the outstanding shares of Amax for $819 million in cash. Immediately upon
closing, certain of Amax's assets will be sold to Universal Resources Corporation for $94.5 million. The operations to be retained primarily consist of natural gas producing, transportation and processing properties in Texas, Louisiana and Arkansas. These properties include interests in 14 major fields, encompassing 600,000 acres and approximately 2,000 producing wells. Resources will add approximately 550 billion cubic feet of gas equivalent (92 MMBOE) of proved reserves as a result of the acquisition.
Rail Transportation - -------------------
Union Pacific Railroad is the third largest railroad in the United States, with nearly 18,000 route miles linking Pacific Coast and Gulf Coast ports with the Midwest. The Railroad maintains coordinated schedules with other carriers for the handling of freight to and from the Atlantic seaboard, the Pacific Coast, the Southeast, the Southwest, Canada and Mexico. Export and import traffic is moved through Gulf Coast and Pacific Coast ports, and across the Texas-Mexico and (primarily through interline connections) Canadian borders. Major categories of freight hauled by the Railroad are automotive, chemicals, energy (coal), food/consumer/government, grains and grain products, intermodal, and metals/minerals/forest. In 1993, energy was the largest commodity in terms of percentage of revenue ton-miles (34.3%), while chemicals traffic produced the highest percentage of freight revenue (20.9%). Percentages of revenue ton-miles and freight revenue for other commodities are presented on page 41 of the Annual Report.
A separate Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, is filed by MPRR. Reference is made to such report for additional information concerning that company.
Oil, Gas and Mining - -------------------
Resources an independent oil and gas company engaged in the exploration for and production of natural gas, crude oil and associated products. Excluding the Amax acquisition described above, substantially all of Resources' exploration and production programs are in the Austin Chalk trend and the Carthage area in eastern Texas and Louisiana; the Union Pacific Land Grant in Colorado, Wyoming and Utah; the Gulf of Mexico; and Canada.
Resources is also responsible for Union Pacific's interests in trona and coal development through the management of Union Pacific Minerals, Inc., an affiliated corporation. Trona activities consist of royalties from mining on Union Pacific Land Grant acreage and equity and partnership interests which equate to a 49 percent interest in Rhone Poulenc of Wyoming, which mines trona and processes it into soda ash. Coal activities consist principally of royalties from third party mines and a 50 percent ownership interest in Black Butte Coal Company, a joint venture mine operated by the joint venture partner. Effective January 1, 1993, Black Butte entered into a revised coal supply arrangement with its largest customer. Under this agreement, in exchange for annual settlement payments to be received for a nine-year period, the coal previously mined at Black Butte will be obtained from unaffiliated mines in Wyoming's Powder River Basin. Black Butte's earnings have not been adversely affected by the revised agreement.
The estimated quantities of proved oil and gas reserves set forth under Oil and Gas - Proved Reserves on pages 42 and 43 of the Annual Report have been prepared by petroleum reservoir engineers who are employees of Resources. In 1993, Union Pacific filed certain reports with the Department of Energy's Energy Information Administration containing oil and gas reserve information for the year ended December 31, 1992. The information reported differed from that contained in the Annual Report by less than 5 percent.
Trucking - --------
Overnite Transportation Company ("Overnite"), a major interstate trucking company, serves all 50 states and portions of Canada through 166 service centers (located primarily in the eastern, southeastern and central United States and on the West Coast) and through agency partnerships with several small, high-quality carriers serving areas not directly covered by Overnite. As one of the largest trucking companies in the United States, Overnite specializes in less-than-truckload shipments and transports a variety of products, including machinery, tobacco, textiles, plastics, electronics and paper products.
The Railroad also has a trucking subsidiary which principally serves rail movements. This motor carrier subsidiary has authority from the Interstate Commerce Commission ("ICC") to operate between all points in the continental United States and also has nationwide authority to provide contract services for Union Pacific's motor carrier broker, Union Pacific Freight Services Company.
USPCI provides trucking services for certain customers of its disposal, treatment and recovery services.
Waste Management - ----------------
USPCI provides comprehensive waste management services (analysis, treatment, recovery, recycling, disposal, remediation and transportation) to industry and government. USPCI operates the following commercial landfills that accept industrial and hazardous waste: (a) Grassy Mountain facility, a RCRA (hereinafter defined) regulated facility located in Utah, (b) Lone Mountain facility, a RCRA regulated facility located in Oklahoma, and (c) Grayback Mountain facility, a TSCA (hereinafter defined) regulated facility permitted for polychlorinated biphenyls ("PCB") disposal located adjacent to the Grassy Mountain facility. In addition, USPCI operates industrial waste facilities in Sawyer, North Dakota and Rosemount, Minnesota, and has a 60 percent ownership interest in ECDC Environmental, L.C. ("ECDC"), which operates an industrial and municipal waste disposal site in Carbon County, Utah. USPCI holds an option, effective June 1, 1994, to acquire the remaining interest in ECDC.
USPCI's hazardous waste incinerator in Clive, Utah, is scheduled for start- up in late 1994. The 130,000-ton-per-year facility will handle both solid and liquid waste, serving customers throughout the United States.
USPCI operates facilities in California, Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas using distillation systems to redistill, filter and separate hydrocarbons, process used oil, clean solvents, and treat oils and coolants, and also performs other services to recover petroleum products and solvents. In addition, USPCI operates facilities in Georgia, Pennsylvania, Kansas, Utah and Canada that analyze, reclaim, recover and treat PCBs. This treatment involves the chemical destruction of PCBs in PCB-contaminated liquids and PCB-contaminated oil in transformers.
USPCI operates a subsidiary in Georgia that processes combustion by- products for sale, including coal ash, and also operates a stand-alone laboratory in Oklahoma that provides a wide range of services, including hazardous waste evaluation and water monitoring.
USPCI also provides a full range of on-site waste management and remediation services, including the control and cleanup of spills and contamination at improper disposal sites.
Competition - -----------
In its rail transportation business, Union Pacific is subject to competition from other railroads, motor carriers and barge operators. Most of its railroad operations are conducted in corridors served by competing railroads and by motor carriers. Motor carrier competition has been strengthened by longer combination vehicles which are allowed in a number of states in which the Railroad operates. Because of the proximity of MPRR's routes to major inland and Gulf Coast waterways and of a UPRR route to the Columbia River, seasonal barge competition can be particularly pronounced in certain markets.
Resources competes for oil and gas reserves and technology advances with smaller companies as well as with the larger integrated oil companies. Mining operations also are subject to competition from a number of companies, many of which have larger operations.
Overnite provides the majority of Union Pacific's trucking operations, specializing in the less-than-truckload business. Other motor carriers, both regional and national, provide intense competition based on service and price.
USPCI competes with numerous hazardous, municipal and industrial waste commercial landfills currently operating in the United States. There are several operating landfill sites in the southern and western United States with which USPCI competes directly. USPCI also competes with companies that dispose of PCBs through incineration and landfills, as well as other companies that provide chemical destruction services or other waste management services. USPCI's competitors include major national and regional environmental service firms.
USPCI's Clive incinerator will compete with hazardous waste incinerators operating throughout the United States, as well as cement kilns and waste generators' on-site incineration facilities.
Skyway competes with integrated logistics providers and freight expediters, many with larger operations. Competition focuses on service and on-time performance.
Employees - ---------
During 1993, Union Pacific had an average of 47,000 employees, of whom approximately 52 percent belonged to various labor organizations.
As is true with employees of all the principal railroads in the country, most of the 29,000 employees of Union Pacific Railroad are organized along craft lines and represented by national labor unions. The Railroad continues to adapt agreements from the previous round of national negotiations to meet local requirements throughout its system. The Railroad has negotiated the ability to
operate all through-freight trains with two-person crews, and is currently modifying operations to take full advantage of this ability.
On December 31, 1994, all outstanding labor contracts will reopen for negotiation. Discussions concerning the Railroad's notices for contract revisions will begin in October. The negotiations will likely continue through 1995 and management is optimistic that they will be completed in an expeditious manner.
Governmental Regulation - -----------------------
Union Pacific's operations are subject to a variety of Federal, state and local regulations. A description of the more significant regulations follows.
Union Pacific Railroad's operations are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the ICC, other Federal agencies and various state agencies. The ICC has jurisdiction over rates charged on certain regulated traffic, freight car compensation, issuance or guarantee of railroad and certain railroad holding company securities, extension or abandonment of rail lines, and acquisition of control of rail common carriers and motor carriers by rail common carriers. Other Federal agencies have jurisdiction over safety, movement of hazardoUs materials, movement and disposal of hazardous waste, and equipment standards. The state agencies regulate intrastate freight rates to the extent that they have adopted Federal standards and procedures and continue to follow such procedures. However, several states in which railroad operations are conducted have ceded intrastate rail rate regulation to the ICC. Various state and local agencies also have jurisdiction over disposal of hazardous wastes and seek to regulate movement of hazardous materials.
Most of Resources' crude oil, field condensate and natural gas is in jurisdictions in which production is regulated under applicable conservation laws. Exploration and production activities are also subject to regulations respecting safety. The transportation of Resources' natural gas is affected by the provisions of the Natural Gas Act and the Natural Gas Policy Act. These acts, administered by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC"), regulate the interstate transportation of gas, including rates and the terms and conditions for service. FERC also governs the tariffs for common carrier liquid pipelines. The Department of the Interior regulates the leasing of Federal lands and the exploration for and production of oil and gas on and from such lands. The transmission by pipeline of liquid petroleum, petroleum products and natural gas is subject to Federal and state pipeline safety laws.
Resources' mining operations are subject to a variety of Federal and state regulations respecting safety, land use and reclamation. In addition, the Department of the Interior regulates the leasing of Federal lands for coal development as provided in the Mineral Lands Leasing Act of 1920. Section 2(c) of the Mineral Lands Leasing Act of 1920 prohibits a company operating a railroad from holding a Federal coal lease. In late 1982 the Department of the Interior decided that the Section prohibits new leasing to affiliates of railroads, such as Resources. The Department of Justice and the Department of the Interior have both concluded that under current conditions Section 2(c) is an impediment to competition and that it should be repealed. In January 1993, a Regional Solicitor of the Department of the Interior opined that Section 2(c) does not prohibit Resources' Black Butte joint venture coal company mine from holding Federal coal leases.
Environmental Regulation - ------------------------
USPCI's business is highly regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"), the Department of Transportation and various state environmental and transportation regulatory authorities. In addition, other subsidiaries of Union Pacific as well as USPCI are subject to various environmental statutes and regulations, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA"), the Toxic Substances Control Act ("TSCA"), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 ("CERCLA") and the Clean Air Act ("CAA").
RCRA applies to hazardous waste generators and transporters, as well as persons engaged in treatment and disposal of hazardous waste, and specifies standards for storage areas, treatment units and land disposal units. All generators of hazardous waste are required to label shipments in accordance with detailed regulations and to prepare a detailed manifest identifying the material and stating its destination before waste can be released for offsite transport. The transporter must deliver the hazardous waste in accordance with the manifest and only to a treatment, storage or disposal facility qualified for RCRA interim status or having a final RCRA permit.
The EPA's regulations under RCRA have established a comprehensive system for the management of hazardous waste. These regulations identify a wide range of industrial by-products and residues as hazardous waste, and specify requirements for "cradle-to-grave" management of such waste from the time of generation through the time of disposal and beyond. States that have adopted hazardous waste management programs with standards at least as stringent as those promulgated by the EPA may be authorized by the EPA to administer all or part of RCRA on behalf of the EPA. The States of Oklahoma and Utah, where USPCI conducts its principal hazardous waste operations, have been so authorized, and Oklahoma and Utah oversee virtually all aspects of USPCI's operations in those states. Permits are required to construct and operate hazardous waste management units. Final RCRA permits for the Lone Mountain and Grassy Mountain facilities have been issued.
USPCI is subject to the EPA's regulations under TSCA, which established a comprehensive program for the regulation of hazardous chemicals in the United States and the distribution and use of PCBs in particular. The EPA's final regulations on notification and manifesting of PCB activities essentially establish a "cradle-to-grave" tracking and management system for PCBs similar to that required under RCRA. PPM, Inc. of Georgia ("PPM"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of USPCI, had a national permit to destroy PCBs in certain fluids which was effective until August 1988. An indefinite extension of this permit has been granted by EPA national headquarters until it acts on PPM's application for a revised permit. USPCI's permit to dispose of PCB solids at Grayback Mountain in Utah was issued in November 1985 for an indefinite period. Subsequent permits have been issued, the latest in September 1992, for additional disposal capacity at the Grayback Mountain facility.
The EPA has, and to the extent they administer the RCRA program, Oklahoma and Utah have, the authority at any time to modify or withdraw the existing requirements or to impose new requirements for permits.
CERCLA was designed to establish a strategy for cleaning up facilities at which hazardous waste or other hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards. The EPA has designated certain facilities as requiring cleanup or further assessment. Among other things, CERCLA authorizes the Federal government either to clean up such facilities itself or to order
persons responsible for the situation to do so. The act creates an $8.5 billion fund to be used by the Federal government to pay for such cleanup efforts.
CERCLA imposes strict liability on the owners and operators of facilities in which hazardous waste and other hazardous substances are deposited or from which they are released or are likely to be released into the environment, the generators of such waste, and the transporters of the waste who select the disposal or treatment sites. Liability may include cleanup costs incurred by third persons and damage to publicly owned natural resources. USPCI and other Union Pacific subsidiaries are subject to potential liability under CERCLA as owners and operators of hazardous waste treatment and disposal facilities, as generators of hazardous waste and as transporters. Some states have enacted, and other states are considering enacting, legislation similar to CERCLA. Certain provisions of these acts are more stringent than CERCLA. States which have passed such legislation are currently active in designating more facilities as requiring cleanup and further assessment. CERCLA is subject to reauthorization in 1994 and may be substantially modified as part of that reauthorization.
The operations of Union Pacific's subsidiaries are subject to the requirements of the CAA. The 1990 amendments to the CAA include a provision under Title V that requires certain facilities to obtain operating permits. EPA regulations require all states to develop Federally approvable permit programs. State permit programs were required to be submitted for approval by November 1993. The EPA must act to approve or disapprove these programs by November 1994, and affected facilities must submit air operating permit applications to the respective states within one year of the EPA's approval of the state programs. Certain Union Pacific facilities, such as gas processing plants and other facilities at Resources, may be required to obtain such permits.
The operations of Union Pacific's subsidiaries are also subject to other laws protecting the environment, including permit requirements for wastewater discharges pursuant to the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System and stormwater regulations under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.
Item 3.