ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our Reserves
We control one of the largest bases of silica sand reserves in the United States. From our reserves, we are able to produce a large selection of high-purity silica sand, lake sand, resin-coated sand, silica gravel and other specialty sands. According to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Industry Guide 7, reserves are defined as that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Reserves are categorized into proven (measured) reserves and probable (indicated) reserves. In accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7, our reserves are categorized as proven or probable.
We estimate that the company has approximately 807.6 million tons of proven recoverable mineral reserves as of December 31, 2014. Additional probable but not proven reserves are considered immaterial. Mineral reserve estimated quantities and characteristics at our properties are overseen by our internal geologists and engineers and validated by third party consulting company, GZA GeoEnvironmental Inc.
Summary of Reserves
The following table provides information on each of our sand mining facilities. Included is the location and area of the facility; the type, amount and ownership status of its reserves and whether or not they meet API standards; and the primary end markets that it serves.
* OM = Owned Mineral Acreage
* O = Owned Acreage
* L = Leased Acreage
[1] API RC 19C Recommended Practice for Measurement of Proppants Used in Hydraulic Fracturing and Gravel-packing Operations, First Edition (ISO 13503-2:2006, Identical).
[2] Wedron estimate includes 20,967,261 tons not permitted.
[3] Chardon estimate includes 3,151,349 tons not permitted.
[4] Estimated recovery percentages represent yield after mining recovery and processing recoveries. Data for inactive or developing mines are based on historical data or estimates.
Descriptions of Sand Facilities
As of December 31, 2014, we had ten active sand mining and processing operations facilities located in Illinois, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Texas, Ohio and Michigan. This includes our facility in Brewer, MO that was idled at the time of acquisition in 2013 but was recently restarted in late 2014 based on market demand. We also have a processing facility located in Ontario, Canada that does not have any sand reserves but has an annual processing capacity of approximately 336,000 tons per year. In February 2015, we idled a processing facility located in Wisconsin with an annual production capacity of approximately 300,000 tons that did not have any sand reserves. We have an inactive mine in Michigan and have one undeveloped mine in Texas and two undeveloped mines in Wisconsin.
The mineral rights and access to mineral reserves for the majority of our facilities are secured through land that is owned in fee. There are no underlying agreements and/or royalties associated with these properties. Where there are agreements and/or royalties associated related to our properties, we have provided more information in the facility descriptions below. We are required to pay production royalties on a per ton basis pursuant to our mineral reserve leases.
API White
Wedron, Illinois. Our Wedron, IL facility is located in Wedron, LaSalle County, IL and consists of owned real property. The facility, which is approximately 6 miles northeast of Ottawa, Illinois, is accessible via County Highway 21 off of State Highway 71 and State Highway 23. The site utilizes natural gas and electricity to process sand. Mining methods include mechanical removal of glacial overburden followed by drilling, blasting and hydraulic mining. Hydraulically mined sand is pumped to the wash plant to be hydraulically sized and sent to the dry plant where it is dried and screened.
Our Wedron facility was originally opened in 1890 by the Garden City Sand Co and was sold in 1894 to the Wedron White Sand Co. which became Wedron Silica Co. in 1916. Martin Marietta acquired the company in 1979. In 1984 Best Sand and the Wedron management group purchased the operation. Our company was formed from the merger of Wedron Silica and Best Sand in 1986. The washing and drying operations at our Wedron facility were upgraded in 2012 and 2013 in conjunction with significant capacity and reserve base increases. Processed sand is shipped from the facility via truck or rail on the Burlington Northern Santa Fe (“BNSF”) and CSX Railroads via the Illinois Railnet. Our Wedron facility utilizes approximately 15,000 linear feet of rail, enlarged in 2013, to accommodate unit trains. A portion of the sand is transferred by conveyor or trucked from our Wedron facility and is resin-coated at our Technisand Wedron, Troy Grove and/or Cutler, Illinois resin coating facilities. The reserve base was increased by 21 million tons in 2014. The total net book value of the Wedron facility’s real property and fixed assets as of December 31, 2014 was $78.5 million.
The sand reserve mined from the open-pit mine at the Wedron facility is the St. Peter Sandstone formation. The Wedron facility produces high purity, round grain silica sand that meets the API requirements for proppant application. The Wedron facility production capacity is approximately 5.0 million tons per year. The surface deposit at the Wedron facility is a high purity, round grain sand with a minimum silica content of 99% which meets API requirements for proppant application. The controlling attributes are iron and grain size. Iron is
concentrated near the surface, where orange iron staining is evident and also increases where the bottom contact becomes concentrated in iron pyrite. Maximum average full face iron content is 0.020%. The deposit tends to exhibit a coarser grain size distribution in the top half of the deposit.
Maiden Rock, Wisconsin. Our Maiden Rock, WI facility is located in Maiden Rock, Pierce County, WI and consists of owned and leased real property. The mineral reserves at the Maiden Rock facility are secured under mineral leases that, with the exercise of renewal options, expire between 2021 and 2046. The facility is within the Village and Town of Maiden Rock along State Highway 35. The Maiden Rock facility utilizes natural gas and electricity to process sand. This is an underground mine and mining methods include drilling and blasting. The reserves are located at a depth of 230 feet. The sand is removed from the face of the tunnels with a front end loader and deposited into a container where it is combined with water to form a slurry. The slurry is pumped to the surface wash plant to be hydraulically sized and sent to the dry plant where it is dried and screened.
The Maiden Rock facility was originally developed in the 1920s. We acquired a 50% equity interest in the facility from Wisconsin Industrial Sand in 1997, and acquired the remaining equity interest in 1999. The washing and drying operations at the Maiden Rock facility were upgraded in 2012 in conjunction with a significant capacity increase. Processed sand is shipped from the Maiden Rock facility via truck or rail on the BNSF Railroad. The Maiden Rock facility utilizes a new rail loadout facility and approximately 5,000 linear feet of rail constructed in 2012. The total net book value of the Maiden Rock facility’s real property and fixed assets as of December 31, 2014 was $40.9 million.
The sand reserve mined from the underground mine at the Maiden Rock facility is the Jordan Sandstone formation. The Maiden Rock facility produces high purity, round grain silica that meets API requirements for proppant application. The mining capacity is approximately 1.3 million tons per year.
The underground deposit at this facility is a high purity, round grain sand with a minimum silica content of 99% which meets API requirements for proppant application. The controlling attributes are turbidity, acid solubility, and grain size. The deposit tends to exhibit a coarser grain size distribution near the top of the deposit. Grain size distribution is maintained through control of mine horizon. Turbidity and acid solubility are controlled though the use of hydrosizers during wet processing.
Menomonie, Wisconsin. Our Menomonie, WI facility is located in Menomonie, Dunn County, WI and consists of owned and leased real property. The mineral reserves at our Menomonie facility are secured under mineral subleases that expire in 2044. We constructed the Menomonie facility in 2007 approximately 2 miles east of Menomonie and it is accessible via US Highway 12 / State Highway 16. The Menomonie facility utilizes natural gas and electricity to process sand. Mining methods include the mechanical removal of glacial overburden followed by drilling, blasting and mechanical mining. Mined sand is processed and shipped by truck or rail. A remote transload facility adjacent to the Union Pacific (UP) Railroad is located approximately one mile north of the site. The total net book value of the Menomonie facility’s real property and fixed assets as of December 31, 2014 was $11.8 million.
The sand reserve mined from the open-pit at the Menomonie facility is the Wonewoc Sandstone formation. The Menomonie facility produces high purity, round grain silica sand that meets the API requirements for proppant application. The mining capacity is approximately 750,000 tons per year. The surface deposit at the Menomonie facility is a high purity, round grain sand with a minimum silica content of 99% which meets API requirements for proppant application. The controlling attributes are turbidity, iron, and grain size. Maximum average full face iron content is 0.080%. The deposit tends to exhibit a coarser grain size distribution in top half of deposit. Turbidity is controlled though the use of attrition scrubbers during wet processing. Iron is controlled during processing through the use of magnetic separators.
Bay City, Wisconsin. Our Bay City, WI facility is located in Isabelle and Hartland Township, Pierce County, WI and consists of owned and leased real property. The mineral reserves at the Bay City facility are secured
under mineral leases that, with the exercise of renewal terms, expire between 2045 and 2106. The Bay City facility was opened in 1919 and operated continuously until 1989. We acquired the mine through the acquisition of Wisconsin Specialty Sand and constructed the associated Hager City processing (drying) plant in 2007. This underground mine is approximately 1.5 miles northeast of Bay City on State Highway 35. The reserves are located at a depth of 230 feet. The mine utilizes electricity to process sand. Mining methods include drilling and blasting.
Mined sand is shipped approximately five miles to the Hager City plant for further processing and eventual shipment via truck or rail on the BNSF Railroad. The Hager City plant, constructed by Wisconsin Industrial Sand Company, LLC in 2007, was expanded in 2013 and 2014 with the addition of a new rail yard containing approximately 17,000 linear feet of rail for assembling unit trains. The total net book value of the Bay City facility’s real property and fixed assets as of December 31, 2014 was $12.4 million.
The sand reserve mined from the underground mine at the Bay City facility is the Jordan Sandstone formation. The Bay City facility produces high purity, round grain silica that meets API requirements for proppant application. The mining capacity is approximately 780,000 tons per year. The underground deposit at the Bay City facility is a high purity, round grain sand with a minimum silica content of 99% which meets API requirements for proppant application. The controlling attributes are turbidity, acid solubility, and grain size. The deposit tends to exhibit a coarser grain size distribution near the top of the deposit. Grain size distributions are maintained through control of mine horizon. Turbidity and acid solubility are controlled though the use of hydrosizers during wet processing.
Shakopee, Minnesota. Our Shakopee, MN facility is located in Shakopee, Scott County, MN and consists of owned and leased real property. The mineral reserves at our mine are secured by fee ownership and a lease agreement that, with the exercise of renewal options, expires in 2030. The facility is approximately four miles south of Shakopee, Minnesota and is accessible via US Highway 169. The Shakopee facility utilizes natural gas and electricity to process sand. Mining methods include the mechanical removal of glacial overburden followed by drilling, blasting and mechanical mining.
Mining occurred at the Shakopee facility for a short time in the 1980s by others until the property was reclaimed. The mine was permitted by Great Plains Sand in 2012 and acquired by us in 2013, at which time we changed the name to Shakopee Sand LLC. We upgraded the washing and drying operations at the facility following the acquisition. Processed sand is shipped from the Shakopee facility via truck or by rail on the Union Pacific Railroad. The total net book value of the Shakopee facility’s real property and fixed assets as of December 31, 2014 was $24.4 million.
The sand reserve mined from the open-pit mine at the Shakopee facility is the Jordan Sandstone formation. The deposit produces high purity, round grain silica sand which meets API requirements for proppant application. The mining capacity is approximately 720,000 tons per year. This surface deposit at the Shakopee facility is a high purity, round grain sand with a minimum silica content of 99% which meets API requirements for proppant application. The controlling attributes are turbidity and grain size. The deposit tends to exhibit a coarser grain size distribution in the top half of deposit. Turbidity is controlled through the use of hydrosizers and attrition scrubbers during wet processing. Fine and coarse areas are blended to meet the grain size average.
Brewer, Missouri. Our Brewer, MO mine is located in Brewer, Perry County, MO and consists of owned real property. The facility, approximately one-half mile northwest of Brewer, Missouri, is accessible via State Highway M. We acquired the inactive mine in August 2014. The operation was reactivated and began production in December 2014. Mining methods include the mechanical removal of overburden followed by drilling, blasting and mechanical mining. The total net book value of the facility’s real property and fixed assets as of December 31, 2014 was $16.6 million.
The sand reserve mined from the open-pit mine at the Brewer facility is the St. Peter Sandstone formation. The deposit produces high purity, round grain silica that meets API requirements for proppant application. The
mining capacity is approximately 1.0 million tons per year. The surface deposit at the Brewer facility is a high purity, round grain sand with a minimum silica content of 99% which meets API requirements for proppant application. The controlling attributes are turbidity and grain size. The deposit tends to exhibit a coarser grain size distribution in top half of deposit. Turbidity is controlled through the use of hydrosizers and attrition scrubbers during wet processing.
API Brown
Voca, Texas. Our Voca, TX facility is located in Voca, Mason and McCulloch Counties, Texas and consists of owned real property. The facility, which is approximately 1.5 miles southeast of Voca, is accessible via County Highway 1851, south of State Highway 71. Sand mining and processing operations were developed at the facility during 2008, with the construction of existing plants completed in 2012. We acquired the operations in 2013. The Voca facility utilizes propane and electricity to process sand. Mining methods include the mechanical removal of thin overburden followed by drilling, blasting and mechanical mining. The total net book value of the Voca facility’s real property and fixed assets as of December 31, 2014 was $32.8 million.
The sand reserve mined at our Voca property is the Hickory Sandstone Member of the Riley formation. The Voca facility produces high purity, round grain silica which meets API requirements for proppant application. The mining capacity is approximately 1.5 million tons per year. The surface deposit at the Voca facility is a high purity, round grain sand with a minimum silica content of 98% which meets API requirements for proppant application. The controlling attributes are turbidity and grain size. Turbidity is controlled through the use of hydrosizers and attrition scrubbers during wet processing. Grain size is controlled through the use of hydrosizers and wet screening.
Non-API
Chardon, Ohio. Our Chardon, OH facility is located in Geauga County, Ohio and consists of owned real property. The facility, which is approximately two miles south of Chardon, is accessible via State Route 44. The site utilizes natural gas and electricity to process sand. Mining methods include the mechanical removal of glacial overburden followed by drilling, blasting and mechanical mining.
The mine was opened in 1938 and acquired by Best Sand in 1978. We acquired the mine as a result of the merger of Wedron Silica and Best Sand in 1986. Upgrades were made to the wash plant in 2009, the fluid bed dryer in 2012 and the rotary dryer circuit in 2012. The reserve base was increased by 950,000 tons in 2014. The total net book value of the Chardon facility’s real property and fixed assets as of December 31, 2014 was $6.6 million.
The sand reserve mined from the open-pit mine at the Chardon facility is the Sharon Conglomerate formation. This plant produces high purity, sub-angular grain silica sand and gravel used for industrial and recreational markets. The mining capacity is approximately 1.1 million tons per year. The surface deposit at the Chardon facility is a high purity, sub-round grain silica sand/gravel. The deposit has a minimum silica content of 99% ideal for glass and foundry applications. The contributing attributes are iron and grain size distribution. The mine’s iron averages 0.084%.
Beaver, Ohio. Our Beaver, OH facility, acquired in 1994 from Schrader Sand and Gravel, is located in Jackson Township, Pike County, Ohio and consists of owned and leased real property. The mineral reserves at this facility are secured under mineral leases that, with the exercise of renewal options, expire in 2024. The facility, which is approximately six miles northeast of Beaver, Ohio, is accessible via County Road 521. The facility utilizes electricity to process sand. Mining methods include the mechanical removal of glacial overburden followed by drilling, blasting and mechanical mining. The total net book value of the Beaver facility’s real property and fixed assets as of December 31, 2014 was $0.5 million.
The sand reserve mined from the open-pit mine at the Beaver facility is the Sharon Conglomerate formation. The Beaver facility produces high purity, sub-angular grain silica sand and gravel. The mining capacity is approximately 425,000 tons per year. The surface deposit at the Beaver facility is a high purity, sub-angular grain silica sand/gravel. The deposit has a minimum silica content of 99% and is ideal for turf/landscaping and industrial applications. The controlling attribute is cleanliness. Cleanliness is controlled through wet processing.
Harrietta, Michigan. Our Harrietta, MI facility is located in Slagle Township, Wexford County, MI and consists of owned and leased real property. The facility, which is approximately three miles northeast of Harrietta, Michigan, is accessible via West 28th Road and State Highway 37. The facility utilizes recycled oil and electricity to process sand. Mining methods include mechanical removal of overburden and excavation of sand.
We acquired Wexford Sand from Sargent Sand in 1998. A new screen plant was installed in 2008. The processed sand is shipped from the Harrietta facility by bulk via truck or rail on the Great Lakes Central Railroad. The total net book value of the Harrietta facility’s real property and fixed assets as of December 31, 2014 was $4.4 million.
The sand reserve mined from the open-pit mine at the Harrietta facility is a glacial outwash sand deposit for proppant applications. Glacial outwash is glacial sediments deposited by melting glacial ice at the terminus of a glacier. The mining capacity is approximately 625,000 tons per year. This surface deposit at the Harrietta is sub-round grain sand with minimum silica content of 96% ideal for foundry applications. The controlling attributes are Acid Demand Value (ADV) and grain size distribution.
Development
Katemcy, Texas. Our Katemcy, TX reserves are located in Katemcy, Mason County, TX and consist of owned real property. The mine property was purchased in September 2013 and is accessed via County Road 1222 and State Highway 87. The mine has not yet been developed and the property is currently used as agricultural land. This deposit is capable of producing high purity, round grain silica sand that meets API requirements for proppant application. Plans to develop the mine property are under review. The sand reserve at this proposed open-pit mine is the Hickory Sandstone Member of the Riley formation.
The surface reserve is a high purity, round grain sand with a minimum silica content of 98% which meets API requirements for proppant application. The controlling attributes will be turbidity and grain size.
Diamond Bluff, Wisconsin. Our Diamond Bluff, WI reserves are located in Diamond Bluff and Oak Grove Townships, Pierce County, WI and consist of owned and leased real property. The mineral reserves are secured under mineral leases that expire between 2063 and 2064. The mine access property was purchased in 2014 and is undeveloped. The mine was permitted by the Diamond Bluff Township in 2012 and by the Oak Grove Township in 2014. The facility, which is located approximately one mile northwest of the unincorporated community of Diamond Bluff, is accessible off of 1005th Street via State Highway 35. The proposed underground mine site will be at a depth of 230 feet and will utilize electricity to process sand through drilling, blasting, mechanical and hydraulic mining methods. Mined sand will be shipped approximately eight miles to the Hager City plant for further processing and eventual shipment via truck or rail on the BNSF Railroad. The total net book value of the facility’s real property as of December 31, 2014 was included in the net book value of the Bay City facility.
The sand reserve at this proposed underground mine is the Jordan Sandstone formation. This deposit is capable of producing high purity, round grain silica sand which meets API requirements for proppant application. This underground reserve is a high purity, round grain sand with a minimum silica content of 99% which meets API requirements for proppant application. The controlling attributes are turbidity, acid solubility, and grain size. The deposit tends to exhibit a coarser grain size distribution near the top of the deposit.
Arcadia, Wisconsin. Our Arcadia, WI reserves are located in Arcadia, Trempealeau County, WI and consist of owned real property. The mine property, which was purchased in September 2013, is located approximately
1.5 miles northeast of Arcadia and is accessed via State Highway 95. This deposit is capable of producing high purity, round grain silica sand that meets API requirements for proppant application. The mine has not been developed and is utilized as agricultural land. Currently there are no plans to develop the mine property. The sand reserve at this proposed open-pit mine at the facility is the Wonewoc Sandstone formation.
The surface reserve is a high purity, round grain sand with a minimum silica content of 99% which meets API requirements for proppant application. The controlling attributes are turbidity and grain size. The deposit tends to exhibit a coarser grain size distribution in the top half of deposit. Turbidity will be controlled though the use of attrition scrubbers during wet processing. Fine and coarse areas will be blended to meet the grain size average.
Coating, Resin Manufacturing, Specialty Blending and Research and Development Facilities
We have nine strategically located coating facilities in North America near our mining operations in Wisconsin, Illinois, Michigan, Oklahoma and Texas. We also have two international coating facilities located in Denmark and China.
We have three specialty blending facilities, located in Ohio, Illinois and Texas. These operations make custom blends of aggregates for use in industrial and commercial flooring, polymer cements, grouts and performance mortars. An additional specialty facility, Mineral Visions, located in Illinois, produces specialty colored quartz for use in pools and colored play sand. We have a manufacturing facility in Michigan, Alpha Resins, which produces resins primarily for our own use. We have research and development facilities are also located in Texas and Illinois.
The following map reflects the location of our mining and processing, resin manufacturing, coating, specialty blending and R&D facilities and our administrative offices:
Product Delivery
We have established an oil and gas logistics network that we believe is highly responsive to our customers’ needs. Our terminal network includes 42 oil and gas terminals and 10 industrial and recreational terminals.
ITEM 3.