ITEM 2: PROPERTIES
PROPERTIES
The Company's portfolio of silver properties in Bolivia, Peru, Chile, Honduras, Mexico, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia and Tajikistan, which cover an area in excess of two million acres, contain identified silver mineralization or offer significant exploration potential. These mineral properties consist of (i) mining concessions which the Company has acquired, or is in the process of acquiring, directly; (ii) concessions which the Company has leased, generally with an option to purchase; (iii) concessions which the Company has agreed to explore and develop and, if feasible, bring into production, in concert with local joint venture partners; and (iv) new claims, principally to mineral properties which the Company believes offer significant exploration opportunities and which the Company has staked on its own behalf.
The Company's exploration and development activities are currently focused on four properties: the San Cristobal Project and the Cobrizos property in southern Bolivia, the El Ocote property in southwestern Honduras, and the San Juan de Lucanas property in southern Peru. All four of these properties remain subject to various stages of exploration, analysis and development. The Company has completed a first phase feasibility study with respect to the San Cristobal Project. Based on the favorable results of the San Cristobal Study, the Company is targeting the completion of a final feasibility study of the San Cristobal Project by late 1998. The Company expects to drill additional holes on the Cobrizos property during 1998. The Company has completed conceptual studies with respect to the El Ocote and San Juan de Lucanas properties. Although the San Cristobal Project remains the Company's top development priority, the initial analysis from the Cobrizos, El Ocote, and San Juan de Lucanas properties have been promising and the Company believes that these properties may be economic development and production candidates.
In addition to the aforementioned properties, the Company controls a portfolio of silver exploration properties located in eight countries in South America, Central America and Central Asia. The Company generally seeks to structure its acquisitions of mineral rights so that individual properties can be explored without significant expense and acquired if significant development opportunities are identified. Properties that the Company determines do not warrant further exploration or development expenditures will be sold or otherwise relinquished, typically without further financial obligation to the Company. Although the Company believes that its exploration properties may contain significant silver mineralization, the Company's analysis of such properties is at a preliminary stage. The activities performed to date at these properties often have involved the analysis of data from previous exploration undertaken with respect to a property, as supplemented by the Company's own fieldwork and sampling programs.
The Company's flagship property, the San Cristobal Project, is discussed in Item 1. The Company's other properties are described below.
COBRIZOS
Location and Access
The Cobrizos property is located on level terrain 12 kilometers north of the San Cristobal Project in southern Bolivia. The proximity to the San Cristobal Project affords significant potential operating efficiencies. The former railroad maintenance town of Uyuni lies 70 kilometers to the northeast and the railroad to the Chilean port of Antofagasta, 460 kilometers distant, passes 20 kilometers to the north. The Bolivian commercial centers of Oruro and La Paz, respectively, are located 350 kilometers and 500 kilometers to the north.
Operating History
Green and blue colored copper carbonate minerals were produced from the deposit for use as pigment during pre-Columbian times and Spanish miners subsequently engaged in small scale native copper and copper sulfate mining. Between 1892 and 1906 Compania Arenal sank shafts as deep as 60 meters and produced copper from approximately 100,000 tonnes of material extracted from shallow underground and open cast workings. A combination of flooding and carbon dioxide build-up in the workings ultimately forced a cessation of operations.
Title and Ownership Rights
The Company acquired the right to enter into a joint venture with Comibol on its approximately 4,178 acres of mining rights at the Cobrizos property through public tender in August of 1996. An agreement defining the joint venture was signed on September 11, 1996. Pursuant to this agreement, the Company must complete certain payments and work commitments in order for its rights to vest in this joint venture at the Cobrizos property, to which Comibol contributes only the mining rights. These obligations are summarized below.
Comibol will receive five percent of the operating cash flow, as defined below, from production at the Cobrizos property until the Company has recovered its entire capital investment; thereafter, Comibol will receive 15 percent of operating cash flow. The Company has the right, in its discretion, to reduce the acreage subject to the joint venture agreement prior to commencement of the third year thereof and again prior to the commencement of the fifth year thereof. Operating cash flow is defined in the agreement as the gross revenues less the cost of transportation, smelting and refining, marketing commissions, production costs and administrative expenses. Financing costs and depreciation are not deductible from gross revenues.
Geology
The Cobrizos property hosts an oxidized copper-silver deposit of the red bed-type composed of narrow (less than ten centimeters thick) veins in a stockwork cutting shale and sandstone of the Jurassic Potoco Formation, which dips steeply to the east.
Mineralized Material
In November and December of 1995, prior to entering into the aforementioned joint venture agreement with Comibol, the Company conducted initial field studies including geologic mapping and the collection of 108 samples for geochemical analysis of gold, silver, and copper. After successfully bidding for and acquiring the Cobrizos property, the Company conducted a mercury vapor survey over the greater mineralized area in August of 1996. In October of 1996, the Company drilled 11 inclined (-60 degrees) RC holes. Four of the holes drilled in a row 700 meters long and spaced no less than 150 meters apart tested a single stratigraphic horizon and intersected silver and copper mineralization.
These drill results precipitated a follow-up drilling phase focused on this single stratographic horizon during which eight additional holes were drilled over a strike length of 850 meters which, together with the four earlier holes, resulted in all the drill holes being spaced approximately 75 meters apart. The results indicate a steeply dipping mineralized zone with an average width of 55 meters over the 855 meters of strike length. The indicated depth from surface or near surface is at least 100 meters. The Cobrizos property contains mineralized material of 10.8 million tonnes at an average grade of 4.3 ounces of silver per tonne and approximately 0.22 percent of copper. These estimates were confirmed by MRA.
Exploration and Development
Further drilling is needed in order to increase the reliability of current data, to determine the limits of the mineralization at the site, and to establish proven and probable reserves. The Company believes that the proximity of the Cobrizos property to the San Cristobal Project may result in significant operating efficiencies. Open pit mining with processing either at the deposit site or at the proposed milling and processing facility at the San Cristobal Project will be evaluated, and metallurgical test work will be conducted.
EL OCOTE
Location and Access
The El Ocote property in southwestern Honduras is located near the town of Santa Lucia in the municipality of La Labor, department of Ocotepeque, approximately 150 kilometers south of the major city of San Pedro Sula and approximately 30 kilometers east of the Guatemalan border. The property is accessible by means of the paved Pan-American Highway, which passes within one kilometer of the deposit. Power, water and labor are available within two kilometers of the property. The site is largely unimproved with no equipment on site; some underground development has occurred, and it is possible to inspect the mineral body from four adits.
Operating History
A portion of the El Ocote property was first explored and put into production in the late nineteenth century. Rosario Resources ("Rosario"), a New York-based company, subsequently acquired the property and in 1963 drilled four diamond drill holes. According to Rosario's geologists responsible for the project, Rosario decided against further development due to difficult logistics and what was perceived to be unfavorable metallurgy. Rosario's metallurgical studies at the time indicated that the mineralized material at the site was best processed by flotation.
Title and Ownership
In 1983, a Honduran entity, Compania Minera Ocote, S. de R.L. ("Minera Ocote") acquired the property. In June of 1994, the Company, acting through an agent, acquired an exclusive five-year exploitation concession
and purchase option for the El Ocote property from Minera Ocote totaling 986 acres. Minera Ocote's rights to the property derive from a 40-year mining concession granted by the government of Honduras in March of 1983, which may be extended for an additional 20-year term.
Pursuant to the contract with Minera Ocote, the Company has committed to undertake a five-year, $1,000,000 exploration and development program on the property, and to advance production royalties of $50,000 and $75,000 to Minera Ocote on the fourth and fifth anniversaries, respectively, of the agreement. The Company is also responsible for maintaining Minera Ocote's concession until such time as title has been formally transferred to the Company. Minera Ocote has agreed to transfer the title to the property on the fifth anniversary of the aforementioned contract, assuming the property is in production, or at such earlier time as the Company may request. Upon the commencement of commercial production at the property, the Company will pay Minera Ocote a five-percent NSR royalty.
In addition to the aforementioned concession at the El Ocote property, the Company has also contracted with Minera Ocote to acquire an exploration permit, the Ocote Exploration Zone, covering approximately 17,414 acres of adjacent territory. Minera Ocote's title to this exploration permit was formally granted in March of 1996. This exploration permit will have a life of four years, extendable for an additional two years before converting into an exploitation concession. The Company expects that if it elects to acquire this permit outright from Minera Ocote, title to the property will be assigned to Cordilleras Honduras. The Company also holds a right of first refusal with respect to another property contiguous to the El Ocote property and is in the process of negotiating for an option to buy such property.
Geology
The major geological feature of the El Ocote property is a zone of mineralized breccia rock contained in a near vertical pipe-shaped structure. This pipe is located at an altitude of approximately 1,600 meters on the side of the very steep eastern slopes of Cordillera Del Merendo. The deposit is hosted by a thin package of Tertiary andesitic volcanics, which overlie Tertiary sediments and volcaniclastics, as well as Cretaceous Yojoa Group limestones. Although faults are believed to be present immediately east and northeast of the structure, it does not appear to have been subjected to any significant post-mineral faulting.
The deposit consists of a near vertical column of brecciated diorite, roughly oval in plan section, in which silver and copper minerals, plus fluorite, and quartz form the cement around the breccia fragments. This structure in plan has dimensions of 150 meters (north-south) by 90 meters (east-west). Within the mineralized structure, the fragments comprise angular to rounded diorite and diorite porphyry. The degree of brecciation decreases with depth, such that at a depth of less than approximately 50 meters below the 1,200 level, there is no longer significant brecciation and the rock is merely weakly jointed.
The bulk of the silver mineralization is in one massive block of breccia near the surface, with the grade diminishing rapidly below the 1,200 meter level. Below that level, most of the higher grade material takes the form of several arcuate bands, concave upward, which extend downward from the west side of the structure and which terminate with depth toward the east.
Mineralized Material
In 1995, the Company began a process of evaluating the exploration and development potential of the identified mineralized zone at the El Ocote property. Specifically, the Company resampled four preexisting mine levels, mapped the geology of the area, prepared topographic maps of the site, and drilled 16 RC drill holes into the pipe-like structure and two RC holes into the surrounding host rock. A total of 3,422 meters of drilling was completed during this program and a total of 2,258 samples from these holes were sent for assay. Using this drill assay data and the data from 313 samples from the underground mine workings, the Company estimated that the deposit contains approximately 2.1 million tonnes of mineralized material containing 9.9 ounces of silver per tonne at a cut-off grade of 2.0 ounces of silver per tonne.
Conceptual Study
The Company commissioned Davy to prepare a conceptual study in order to estimate the potential and timing of undertaking rapid exploitation of the property via rapid bulk underground mining and heap leach extraction methods. This study utilized the Company's estimate of mineralized material mentioned above.
This study was completed in July of 1997 and concluded as follows:
. The project's economics are sensitive to metallurgical recovery and metal prices. Assuming a 50 percent heap leach recovery, the project's internal rate of return is positive with silver prices of approximately $6.00 per ounce, or at a 75 percent recovery, a positive rate of return begins at prices above $4.00 per ounce of silver.
. Metallurgical test work should be undertaken to determine cyanide consumption and silver recovery rates.
. Upside potential lies in lower cyanide consumption rates and the discovery of ore reserves to improve the return on capital invested in the mining and processing facilities.
Exploration and Development
The Company plans to commission an extensive metallurgical sampling and testing program as the next step in its continuing evaluation of this property. The Company believes that there is little likelihood of discovering additional resources within the pipe structure itself. Nonetheless, as part of the appraisal of the mineral potential of the El Ocote property, a regional stream sediment survey was conducted over an area of 80 square kilometers. The stream draining the mineralized area at the El Ocote property assayed 0.6 parts per million ("ppm") silver. Most other streams in the immediate area assayed under 0.5 ppm silver. However, a large number of streams draining an area 4.5 kilometers southwest of the mineralized structure assayed from 0.6 to 2.6 ppm silver. As numerous streams draining this area are strongly anomalous in silver, the Company believes it is likely that additional silver mineralization may occur in the headwaters of those sampled streams. The Company plans to conduct further reconnaissance fieldwork in this anomalous area until the source of the silver is discovered.
SAN JUAN DE LUCANAS
Location and Access
The San Juan de Lucanas property is located 147 kilometers east of the town of Nazca in the San Juan district of the Lucanas province in the department of Ayacucho in southern Peru, approximately 500 kilometers south of Lima. The property is accessible by means of a partly paved, well-maintained highway from Nazca which extends to within ten kilometers of the property and is connected to the mine and mill site by well-established gravel roads. Water and labor are available on site while power must be generated at the site.
Operating History
Mineralization was discovered in the San Juan district in colonial times. Documented mining has occurred intermittently in the area since 1938. Empresa Minera San Juan de Lucanas S.A. ("EMSJ") operated the San Juan de Lucanas mine from 1966 until 1990, at which time operations were discontinued due to operating losses. Between 1990 and early 1996, a small mining cooperative intermittently ran the San Juan de Lucanas mine at a low production level. Since 1951, the three mined veins at San Juan de Lucanas property have produced approximately 3,000,000 tonnes of ore grading an average of 13.8 ounces of silver per tonne and 0.061 ounces of gold per tonne. Mill recoveries of 84 percent silver and 91 percent gold resulted in district production of approximately 35,830,000 ounces of silver and 170,400 ounces of gold.
Title and Ownership Rights
Through its new claims and the acquisition of mining concessions and certain contract rights entitling it to explore and develop mining concessions in the district, the Company has acquired title to, or otherwise controls,
mineral rights to more than 52,000 acres of properties dispersed over an area of approximately 150 square miles in the San Juan district of the Lucanas province of Peru. The Company has contracted to acquire 38 existing mining concessions relating to 42,071 acres of land, including the aforementioned pre-existing mining complex, and has staked new claims covering more than 10,131 acres. The Company believes that it controls all known mineralized structures in the San Juan district.
The registered holders of title to the 38 mining concessions include EMSJ and Banco Minero del Peru, S.A. ("Banco Minero"), a Peruvian state bank which is in liquidation. Among EMSJ's creditors were Banco Minero, which became EMSJ's sole shareholder, and EMSJ's former employees, who where the beneficiaries of certain statutory labor liens on EMSJ's assets. As a result, these mining assets, although primarily registered in the name of EMSJ, also included certain properties registered in the name of Banco Minero which are now registered in the name of ASC Peru, a subsidiary of the Company. In June of 1993, Banco Minero agreed to transfer ownership of the San Juan de Lucanas mining complex to EMSJ's former workers in exchange for a release of all claims by such workers against EMSJ and its successor in interest, Banco Minero. The Banco Minero settlement agreement was subject to (i) a two-step court approval process and (ii) subsequent registration with the Peruvian Registry of Mines. The approval process has been completed and the registration of the settlement agreement has been ordered by the Labor Court in Lima. The registration of the settlement agreement, transfer of title to the Company and the raising to public deed of the Company's rights to acquire the concessions, however, remain pending.
The Company has contracted with more than 90 percent in interest of the beneficiaries of the Banco Minero settlement agreement to acquire all of their rights in the San Juan de Lucanas mining complex (such contracts, the "San Juan Contracts"). The Company has obtained the opinion of local counsel attesting to the validity and enforceability of the San Juan Contracts. In order for the Company to perfect its title to the San Juan de Lucanas mining complex, the Banco Minero settlement agreement must be duly registered with the Peruvian Registry of Mines. Since Peruvian law does not provide for fractional interests in mining properties as an administrative procedure, a special purpose mining entity, to be named SMRL Dorita I de Ica ("SMRL"), which will be beneficially owned by the workers party to the settlement agreement, will become the holder of the title to the San Juan de Lucanas property. The SMRL is broadly analogous to a Peruvian limited liability corporation. Pursuant to the San Juan Contracts, the Company will become the holder of at least 90 percent of the participating interests in SMRL. The Company expects that pursuant to the San Juan Contracts, SMRL will be compelled to sell the San Juan de Lucanas property to the Company or its designee upon the registration of the settlement agreement.
As several of the former workers party to the Banco Minero settlement either are not party to the San Juan Contracts, or have sought or may be expected to seek to opt out of the San Juan Contracts, the Company's interest in particular properties comprising the San Juan de Lucanas mining complex may be subject to a small amount of dilution. Management does not believe that any such dilution will have a material adverse effect on its interests or activities in the San Juan district. The Company is pursuing the rapid resolution of all title disputes and is committed to an amicable settlement with all parties involved.
Concurrent with the resolution of outstanding administrative legal issues, the Company has taken steps to maintain an orderly physical presence in the San Juan district. Of the 337 surviving ex-workers, approximately 60 continue to live at the mining camp while the others no longer live in the district. Those at the camp are living at a subsistence level. The Company provides periodic truckloads of food and other supplies and has provided some assistance to the local school and sports teams. The Company has two representatives at the camp who periodically report to management, and the Company's engineering personnel have made numerous uneventful visits to the camp. However, the situation is unstable and is likely to remain so until such time as the Company is able to make purchase payments on the SMRL properties. The Company expects to make such payments as soon as the registration of the settlement agreements have been completed and the San Juan Contracts have been raised to public deed.
Geology
The mineral deposits at the San Juan de Lucanas property are epithermal, with mineralization occurring in a number of steeply dipping veins, running along two well defined orientations. The north-south veins include the veins known as Santa Rosa, Saramarca, Yanarumi, Ventanilla and Rosaura; the northeast-southwest vein is known as Concepcion-Raquel. The outcrops of the Ventanilla and Concepcion-Raquel structures can be followed on the surface for over one kilometer. The rocks hosting the veins consist of lava flows and tuff flows with conglomerate.
There are several systems of veins on the property. The Concepcion-Raquel vein forms the most important structure in the district and is comprised of two sets of three parallel structures each. The width of the veins varies between two and four meters, although in some sections of the mine, widths over 20 meters can be found. The Santa Rosa vein and another associated vein, Alfa Romeo, form the second most important vein system; with vein widths varying from one to seven meters. The third most important vein system is the Saramarca system which is comprised of a series of veins and mineralization occurring in lenses.
All three vein systems are mineralized with gold, chalcopyrite, sphalerite, galena, argentite and ruby silvers. Successive processes of leaching and oxidation led to the formation of an enriched zone which constitutes the most readily mineable portion of the deposit. The main minerals at the surface are oxides extending to a depth of approximately 100 meters. The oxides contain significant grades of silver and gold in some areas. Below this level, an enriched zone with a vertical interval of 200 to 250 meters is present in most of the known veins.
Mineralized Material
Underground mineralized material is estimated at 139,000 tonnes with an average silver grade of 9.27 ounces per tonne and gold grade of 0.086 ounces per tonne.
During January and February of 1995, the Company engaged independent contractors to survey and drill, under the supervision of Company geologists, the two tailings dumps using impact casing methods. Twenty holes were drilled, and 149 samples obtained. Approximately 85 percent of the tailings area was sampled, and there is no reason to believe that the remaining 15 percent would yield significantly different results.
Based on the work described above, the Company estimates that the two tailings dumps contain at least 1.75 million tonnes of mineralized material with an average silver grade of 1.74 ounces per tonne and gold grade of 0.006 ounces per tonne. The Company sent a 60 pound (30 kilogram) sample to the University of Cardiff, Wales, for metallurgical testing to estimate recoveries, material balances for various throughputs for processing the tailings, reagent consumption and preliminary equipment and capital specifications. PAH found that these test results support the concept of reprocessing the tailings profitably, assuming a tailings reclaim agglomerate and heap leach process for a new or refurbished underground mine combined operation. The tailings component would contribute a net cash margin (before tax) of $1.99 per ounce of silver at an assumed price of $5.15 per ounce of silver.
Conceptual Study
In June of 1995, PAH performed a conceptual study evaluating the rehabilitation of the idled San Juan de Lucanas mine complex. PAH concluded that rehabilitation would be feasible, and require approximately $10 million to return the mine to a 500 tpd underground mining operation. Operating cash costs of a rehabilitated and developed mine were estimated by PAH to be approximately $2.40 per ounce of silver when fully operational. PAH outlined a mine and power rehabilitation program and also defined requirements for replacement of the crushing and grinding sections, a new flotation plant, thickening section and cyanidation section, and repairs to the Merrill-Crowe precipitation section. All ancillary structures would have to be rebuilt. The Company believes additional reserves, which could result from such proposed exploration, would be required to justify such investment.
Exploration and Development
The Company has defined a two stage, 5,500 meter core drilling program with the goal of delineating an additional two million tonnes of reserves within the known vein system. The first stage would consist of 12 core holes drilled into eight veins to depths averaging 250 meters, for a total of 2,875 meters. The second stage would consist of another 10 holes in the same veins, for a total of 2,625 meters. If successful, a third phase consisting of additional drilling and underground drifting will be conducted, the results of which will be used to justify the rehabilitation and development of the mine, as well as further exploration on other parts of the property.
OTHER MINERAL PROPERTIES
In addition to the aforementioned development project and advanced exploration properties, the Company has a portfolio of more than two million acres of exploration properties located in the traditional silver producing regions of the world or otherwise identified by the Company as areas which warrant exploration. The Company generally seeks to structure its acquisitions of mineral properties in order to allow the Company to engage in phased exploration of individual properties at a relatively low cost and to acquire those properties that it regards as presenting significant development opportunities. Properties which the Company determines do not warrant further exploration or development will be sold or otherwise relinquished, typically without further cost obligations to the Company. The Company currently owns, controls or has options to acquire approximately 120 silver and other mineral holdings classified into 20 major groups of exploration properties located in eight countries. The distribution of these holdings is summarized in the table on the following page:
LOCATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF MAJOR GROUPS OF EXPLORATION PROPERTIES
- -------- (1) Acreage and percent of total acreage figures do not include land considered part of the San Cristobal Project, El Ocote, San Juan de Lucanas, and Cobrizos properties. These four properties consist of claims and concessions comprising approximately 5,066 acres, 68,291 acres, 52,944 acres and 4,253 acres, respectively.
While the Company in the near term expects to focus primarily on the development of the San Cristobal Project, the acquisition, exploration and evaluation of properties will be vigorously pursued in order to unlock the potential value of the Company's existing exploration property portfolio as well as to sustain continuing corporate growth objectives.
Drilling and geophysical engineering services are frequently subcontracted to regional and/or international firms. Chemical analysis generally is performed in laboratories located in the same regions as the specific property, with metallurgical testing and analysis conducted in the U.S. When using core drilling, the Company uses conventional split core sampling in its testing, retaining one half of all drill cores for reference and confirmatory testing processes. Similarly, representative portions of chip samples from rotary percussion, reverse circulation drilling are processed leaving substantial quantities of the chip sample material for reexamination and other future test work.
The Company's international exploration activities are described on a country-by-country basis below. Due to the limited nature of the available information regarding these properties, the general exploration portfolio is addressed below in a summary manner only.
BOLIVIA
The Company has continued its aggressive land acquisition program throughout Bolivia, making the Company one of this country's largest private owners of mineral rights. The Company's holdings and joint ventures, excluding the Cobrizos property and the San Cristobal Project, now total approximately 1.3 million acres, including its existing joint venture interests for the historic Pulacayo mine and options on several properties being explored presently. The Company expects to pursue aggressively its exploration program in Bolivia.
In December of 1997, the Company paid approximately $4.3 million to Empresa Minera Yanamallco in exchange for equipment and mining properties. In addition, the Company assumed approximately $2.5 million in debt that will be paid out of cash and production.
CHILE
The Company has been systematically staking concessions in northern Chile. This program, which is based on efforts to identify promising silver exploration zones, has resulted in the staking of 22 claims over an area of more than 53,000 acres. The Company's exploration of its Chilean property holdings are at an early stage.
PERU
In addition to its San Juan de Lucanas property, the Company has undertaken numerous activities in Peru, including: (i) the acquisition and preliminary evaluation of the Otuzco property located in northern Peru which has been leased and is subject to a purchase option held by the Company; and (ii) technical evaluation of a number of the mining properties being sold by Centromin, the Peruvian state-owned mining company. The Company is presently engaged in land acquisition programs in several districts.
MEXICO
Exploratory work in Mexico has successfully secured a significant land position in the vicinity of Zacatecas, historically Mexico's largest silver producing district. An initial exploration program was completed in March of 1997. The Company's continuing program is evaluating the potential for several underground silver operations. Additional exploration targets throughout Mexico are being analyzed by the Company's Zacatecas office.
HONDURAS
Including its El Ocote property, the Company holds approximately 68,000 acres of exploration and exploitation concessions. The Company's analysis of these properties remains preliminary. Over the course of the next 12 to 18 months, the Company expects to conduct additional field reconnaissance in order to determine further drill targets at these properties.
KYRGYZSTAN
On March 26, 1996, the Company established Kumushtak Mining, a 51/49 joint venture with North-Kyrgyz Geological Expedition (Apex 51%), a state enterprise organized under the laws of the Kyrgyz Republic.
Kumushtak Mining holds concessions located in a belt of silver occurrences which extends for several hundred kilometers in the Kumushtak river valley in western Kyrgyzstan. The area encompasses several historic mining districts.
The Company recently completed its first round of drilling at one significant silver anomaly situated in Kumushtak. The results of such drilling indicate insufficient grades to sustain economic production at prevailing silver prices. However, due to Kumushtak Mining's large property holdings and exploration potential, the Company intends to preserve a strategic position in this region and continue with its interest in Kumushtak Mining. The Company believes that Kumushtak Mining's extraordinarily large concession offers the possibility of numerous occurrences of silver and gold.
MONGOLIA
On March 26, 1996, the Company established Asgat Mining, a 50/50 joint venture with Mongolrostvetmet, a joint association owned by the Mongolian government and Zarubeshvetmet, a privatized company formed under the laws of the Russian Federation. Asgat Mining is involved in the evaluation of the Asgat silver deposits in northwestern Mongolia (the "Asgat Silver Property").
Work on the Asgat Silver Property, which already contains some underground development, has principally involved data preparation for a feasibility study. Recently, metallurgical bench scale test work has been conducted with mixed results. While recoveries of silver and copper were high, the results indicated large amounts of arsenic and antimony. The Company regards the Asgat Silver Property as a strategic property position with potential long term development prospects. Asgat Mining is presently assessing other precious metal prospects based on its detailed knowledge of information and conditions in Mongolia.
TAJIKISTAN
The Company is in the process of obtaining an exclusive, irrevocable license to exploit the Bolshoi Kanimansur and the Western Kanimansur silver deposits in northern Tajikistan, through the formation of Kanimansur Mining, which will be 49 percent owned by Apex Asia and 51 percent by Adrasman Mining. The Company is considering entering into a joint venture with respect to the property with Zarabeshtsvetmet, a Russian mining company.
GLOSSARY
ADIT--a horizontal or nearly horizontal passage driven from the surface for the working of a mine.
ANDESITE--a porphyritic igneous rock with low quartz content.
BACK--a mining term indicating the rock volume which is above a level in a mine; the term may also refer to the roof of a mine working.
BRECCIATION OR BRECCIA--fracturing of preexisting rocks by natural forces; a rock type formed in this manner.
BULK MINING--surface or underground mining methods applied to large bodies of ore which involve large-scale, automated excavation techniques.
CONCENTRATE--a mineral processing product that generally describes the material that is produced after crushing and grinding ore and then effecting significant separation of gangue (waste) minerals from the metal and/or metal minerals, discarding the waste and minor amounts of metal and/or metal minerals leaving a "concentrate" of metal and/or metal minerals with a consequent order of magnitude higher content of metal and/or metal minerals than the beginning ore material.
CONCEPTUAL STUDY--an initial technical financial study of a project at a sufficient level of accuracy and detail to allow a decision as to whether to undertake a feasibility study with respect to a given property.
CONGLOMERATE--a course-grained clastic sedimentary rock, composed of rounded to subangular fragments larger than 2 millimeters in diameter set in a fine- grained matrix of sand or silt.
CORE--a sample of rock produced by diamond drilling.
CUT-OFF GRADE--the minimum grade of mineralization or ore used to establish quantitative estimates of total mineralized ore.
DEVELOPMENT--work carried out for the purpose of opening up a mineral deposit and making the actual ore extraction possible.
DIAMOND DRILL--a type of rotary drill in which the cutting is done by abrasion rather than by percussion. The hollow bit of the drill cuts a core of rock which is recovered in long cylindrical sections.
DRIFT--a horizontal passage underground that follows along the length of a vein or mineralized rock formation.
EPITHERMAL--said of a Hydrothermal mineral deposit formed within about 1 kilometer of the earth's surface and in the temperature range of 100 to 250 degrees Celsius, occurring mainly as veins; a term applied to deposits formed at shallow depths from ascending solutions of moderate temperatures.
EXPLORATION--work involved in searching for ore, by geological mapping, geochemistry, geophysics, drilling and other methods.
FAULT--a fracture in a rock where there has been displacement of the two sides.
FEASIBILITY STUDY--a technical financial study of a project at sufficient level of accuracy and detail to allow a decision as to whether a given project should proceed.
FRACTURE--breaks in a rock, usually due to intensive folding or faulting.
GRADE--the average assay of a ton of ore, reflecting metal content.
HEAP LEACHING--a process involving the percolation of a cyanide solution through crushed ore heaped on an impervious pad or base to dissolve minerals or metals out of the ore.
HYDROTHERMAL ALTERATION--alteration of rocks or minerals by the reaction of hydrothermal water (hot water) with preexisting solid phases.
INTRUSION--in geology, a mass of igneous rock that while molten, was forced into or between other rocks.
KRIGING--a geostatistical estimation method for calculating a geological three dimensional model for the estimation of mineralized material and proven and probable reserves. This method was developed to provide the "best linear, unbiased estimate" for grade based on a least squares minimization of the error estimation, or Kriging errors.
LEACHED--the separation, selective removal or dissolving out of soluble constituents from a rock or orebody by the natural action of percolating water.
LENS--a geological deposit bounded by converging surfaces, at least one of which is curved, thick in the middle and thinning out to the edges, resembling a convex lens.
LEVEL--a sub-horizontal working in a mine, like a drift or a tunnel, often given a number which relates its depth below an arbitrarily chosen reference point, e.g., the -300 Level usually means the working is 300 meters below some chosen reference point.
MASSIVE--said of mineral deposits characterized by a great concentration of ore in one place, as opposed to disseminated or vein deposits.
MILL--a processing plant that produces a concentrate of the valuable minerals or metals contained in an ore. The concentrate must then be treated in some other type of plant, such as a smelter, to effect recovery of the pure metal.
MINEABLE--the portion of a resource for which extraction is technically and economically feasible.
MINERALIZATION--the concentration of metals and their compounds in rocks, and the processes involved therein.
MINERALIZED MATERIAL--that part of mineral deposits (i) for which tonnage and grade are computed (a) partly from specific measurements, samples or production data compiled from appropriately spaced assays of outcrops, trenches, underground workings or drill holes and (b) partly from projections based on geological evidence, and (ii) that have not been measured and sampled with sufficient confidence to determine that the identified deposit can be economically and legally extracted at the time of such determination.
NET SMELTER RETURN OR NSR--a return based on the actual proceeds from sale of metal or mineral products received less the cost of refining or smelting at an off-site refinery.
OPEN PIT--a surface working open to daylight, such as a quarry.
ORE--material that can be economically mined and processed.
OUNCE--a unit of measurement of weight. In the precious metals industry, and at Apex, one troy ounce, the equivalent of 31.103 grams.
OUTCROP--the part of a rock formation that appears at the earth's surfaces, often protruding above the surrounding ground.
PORPHYRY--an igneous rock of any composition that contains conspicuous phenocrysts (large crystals) in a fine-grained rock mass.
PROBABLE RESERVES--that part of a mineral deposit which may be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves (see below), but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
PROVEN RESERVES--that part of a mineral deposit which may be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings and drill holes and grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and grade measurement are spaced so closely and the geological character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established.
RECOVERY--the percentage of contained metal extracted from ore in the course of processing such ore.
REFINING--the final stage of metal production in which residual impurities are removed from the metal.
RESERVES--that part of a mineral deposit which may be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
REVERSE CIRCULATION DRILL--a rotary drill or rotary percussion drill in which the drilling fluid and cuttings return to the surface through the drill pipe, minimizing contamination.
SECONDARY ENRICHMENT/SUPERGENE ENRICHMENT--a mineral deposition process in which near surface oxidation produces acidic solutions that leach (dissolve) minerals or metals, carry them downward, and precipitate them, thus enriching sulfide minerals already present.
SEDIMENTARY ROCKS/SEDIMENTS--rocks resulting from the consolidation of loose sediments that have accumulated in layers consisting of mechanically formed fragments of older rock transported from its source and deposited in water, or from air or ice.
SHAFT--a vertical or steeply inclined excavation for the purposes of opening and servicing an underground mine. It is usually equipped with a hoist at the top which lowers and raises a conveyance for handling personnel and materials.
SILL--a near horizontal flat-bedded strata of intrusive rock.
SMELTING--heating ore or concentrate material with suitable flux materials at high temperatures creating a fusion of these materials to produce a melt consisting of two layers on top, a slag of the flux and gangue (waste) minerals, and below molten impure metals. This generally produces an unfinished product requiring refining.
STOCKWORK--a mineral deposit in the form of a three dimensional network of anastomosing veinlets diffused in the host rock.
STRATA-BOUND--a mineral deposit confined to a single stratigraphic unit.
STRIKE--the course or bearing of a vein or a layer of rock.
TAILINGS--the finely-ground waste product from ore processing.
TON--a dry short ton (2,000 pounds).
TONNE--a metric ton (1,000 kilograms, or 2,205 pounds).
VEIN--a mineralized zone having a more or less regular development in length, width and depth which clearly separates it from neighboring rock.
WASTE--barren rock in a mine, or mineralization that is too low in grade to be mined and milled at a profit.
CONVERSION TABLE
In this Form 10-K, figures are presented in both United States standard and metric measurements. Conversion rates from United States standard to metric and metric to United States standard measurement systems are provided in the table below.
ITEM 3: