Item 2. Properties GENERATING FACILITIES
The electric generating capability of the Company as of December 31, 1998, based on summer ratings of the generating units, was as follows:
(1) Bridgeport Harbor Station 1 was placed in deactivated reserve status on August 1, 1998, when the first phase of a merchant wholesale electric generating facility (Bridgeport Energy Project), constructed on land leased from UI at Bridgeport Harbor Station, was completed. (2) Commencing with the completion of the second phase of the Bridgeport Energy Project, scheduled for July of 1999, a wholesale power marketer will have an option to purchase the capability and energy generated by Bridgeport Harbor Station 2, under a series of one-year option agreements that end in 2010, pursuant to a wholesale power contract. (3) Represents UI's 93.705% ownership share of total net capability. This unit is jointly owned by UI (93.705%), Fitchburg Gas and Electric Light Company (4.5%) and the electric departments of three Massachusetts municipalities (1.795%). (4) English Station 7 and 8 were placed in deactivated reserve status, effective January 1, 1992. (5) Represents UI's 3.685% ownership share of total net capability. (6) Represents UI's 17.5% ownership share of total net capability. In August 1990, UI sold to and leased back from an owner trust established for the benefit of an institutional investor a portion of UI's 17.5% ownership interest in this unit. This portion of the unit is subject to the lien of a first mortgage granted by the owner trustee. (7) The Company has contracted to sell its Bridgeport Harbor Station and New Haven Harbor Station generating plants in compliance with Connecticut's electric utility industry restructuring legislation. See Item 1. Business - "Franchises, Regulation and Competition - Competition".
- 20 -
(1) Capacity shown reflects summer ratings of generating units. In conjunction with the proposed sale of its two operating fossil-fueled generating stations, the Company will enter into wholesale power supply contracts for the sale of power to the Company to replace the power currently being generated by the Company at the two generating stations. (2) Winter ratings of UI nuclear and Hydro-Quebec interconnection's equivalent capacity value entitlements (megawatts): Millstone Unit 3 - 42.01 Seabrook Unit 1 - 203.35 Hydro-Quebec - 34.34 (3) UI's required capacity as a NEPOOL participant. (4) Total generating resources, excluding purchases from New York Power Authority and Shelton Landfill, less capability responsibility. In addition, UI maintains three units (English Station 7, English Station 8 and Bridgeport Harbor Station 1) in deactivated reserve, representing a total of 148.64 MW of generating capacity.
- 21 -
During 1998, the peak load on the Company's system was approximately 1,143 megawatts, which occurred in July. UI's total generating capability at the time was 1,323 megawatts, including a 98 megawatt increase in capability provided by the equivalent capacity value of UI's entitlements in the Hydro-Quebec facility and reflecting the net effect of temporary arrangements with other electric utilities and cogenerators. The Company is currently forecasting an annual average compound growth in peak load of 0.85% during the period 1998 to 2008.
In April 1998, Connecticut enacted Public Act 98-28 (the Restructuring Act), a massive and complex statute designed to restructure the State's regulated electric utility industry. The business of generating and supplying electricity directly to consumers will be price-deregulated and opened to competition beginning in the year 2000. At that time, these business activities will be separated from the business of delivering electricity to consumers, also known as the transmission and distribution business. The business of delivering electricity will remain with the incumbent franchised utility companies (including the Company), which will continue to be regulated by the DPUC as Distribution Companies. Beginning in 2000, each retail consumer of electricity in Connecticut (excluding consumers served by municipal electric systems) will be able to choose his, her or its supplier of electricity from among competing licensed suppliers, for delivery over the wires system of the franchised Distribution Company. Commencing no later than mid-1999, Distribution Companies will be required to separate on consumers' bills the charge for electricity generation services from the charge for delivering the electricity and all other charges. On July 29, 1998, the DPUC issued the first of what are expected to be several orders relative to this "unbundling" requirement, and has now reopened its proceeding to consider the amount of the generation services charge to be included on consumers' bills.
In May of 1998, the Company announced that it would commence selling, through a two-stage bidding process, all of its non-nuclear generation assets, in compliance with the Restructuring Act. On October 2, 1998, the Company agreed to sell both of its operating fossil-fueled generating stations, Bridgeport Harbor Station and New Haven Harbor Station, to Wisvest-Connecticut, LLC, a single-purpose subsidiary of Wisvest Corporation. Wisvest Corporation is a non-utility subsidiary of Wisconsin Energy Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The sale price is $272 million in cash, including payment for some non-plant items, and the transaction is expected to close during the spring of 1999. It is contingent upon the receipt of approvals from the DPUC, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), and other federal and state agencies. A petition seeking the DPUC's approval was filed on October 30, 1998 and, on March 5, 1999, the DPUC issued a decision approving the sale. An application seeking the FERC's authorization for the sale of the facilities subject to its jurisdiction was filed on December 21, 1998 and, on February 24, 1999, the FERC issued an order authorizing the sale.
On October 1, 1998, in its "unbundling plan" filing with the DPUC under the Restructuring Act, the Company stated that it plans to divest its nuclear generation ownership interests (17.5% of Seabrook Station in New Hampshire and 3.685% of Millstone Station Unit No. 3 in Connecticut) by the end of 2003, in accordance with the Restructuring Act. The divestiture method has not yet been determined. In anticipation of ultimate divestiture, the Company proposed to satisfy, on a functional basis, the Restructuring Act's requirement that nuclear generating assets be separated from its transmission and distribution assets. This would be accomplished by transferring the nuclear generating assets into a separate new division of the Company, using divisional financial statements and accounting to segregate all revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities associated with nuclear ownership interests.
Under the Restructuring Act, all Connecticut electricity customers will be able to choose their power supply providers after June 30, 2000. On and after January 1, 2000 and until January 1, 2004, the Company will be required to offer fully-bundled service to customers under a regulated "standard offer" rate and will also become the power supply provider to each customer who does not choose an alternate power supply provider, even though the Company will no longer be in the business of retail power generation. The Company is also required under the Restructuring Act to provide back-up power supply service to customers whose electric supplier fails to provide power supply services for reasons other than the customers' failure to pay for such services.
In conjunction with the proposed sale of its two operating fossil-fueled generating stations to Wisvest-Connecticut, LLC (Wisvest), the Company will enter into a wholesale power supply contract with Wisvest for the sale of power to the Company, through June 30, 2000, to replace the power currently being generated by the Company at the two
- 22 -
generating stations. If, due to the permanent loss of a generating unit or higher than expected load growth, UI's own generating capability and the generating capability of its wholesale supplier become inadequate to meet its customer service obligations and its capability responsibility to NEPOOL, UI expects to be able to reduce the load on its system by the implementation of additional demand-side management programs, to acquire other demand-side and supply-side resources, and/or to purchase capacity from other utilities or from the installed capability spot market, as necessary. However, because the generation and transmission systems of the major New England utilities, including UI, are operated as if they were a single system, the ability of UI to meet its load is and will be dependent on the ability of the region's generation and transmission systems to meet the region's load. See "Nuclear Generation" and Item 1. Business - "Franchises, Regulation and Competition - Competition" and "Arrangements with Other Utilities".
Shown below is a summary of the Company's sources and uses of electricity for 1998.
MEGAWATT-HOURS -------------- (000'S) SOURCES USES - ------- ----
OWNED Retail Customers 5,452 Nuclear 1,594 Coal 1,514 Wholesale Oil 2,756 Delivered to NEPOOL 975 Gas & Gas Turbines 5 Contracts 878 ----- Total Owned 5,869 Company Use & Losses 276 ----- PURCHASED Contracts 782 Total Uses 7,581 ===== NEPOOL 628 Hydro-Quebec 302 ----- Total Sources 7,581 =====
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PLANT
The transmission lines of the Company consist of approximately 102 circuit miles of overhead lines and approximately 17 circuit miles of underground lines, all operated at 345 KV or 115 KV and located within or immediately adjacent to the territory served by the Company. These transmission lines interconnect the Company's Bridgeport Harbor and New Haven Harbor generating stations and are part of the New England transmission grid through connections with the transmission lines of The Connecticut Light and Power Company. A major portion of the Company's transmission lines is constructed on a railroad right-of-way pursuant to a Transmission Line Agreement that expires in May 2000.
The Company owns and operates 25 bulk electric supply substations with a capacity of 2,634,000 KVA and 38 distribution substations with a capacity of 80,050 KVA. The Company has 3,170 pole-line miles of overhead distribution lines and 130 conduit-bank miles of underground distribution lines.
See "Capital Expenditure Program" concerning the estimated cost of additions to the Company's transmission and distribution facilities.
- 23 -
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
The Company's 1999-2003 capital expenditure program, excluding allowance for funds used during construction and its effect on certain capital-related items, is presently budgeted as follows:
(1) Reflects divestiture of fossil-fueled generation plant on April 1, 1999. Remaining generation is nuclear, excluding nuclear fuel. See Item 1. Business - "Franchises, Regulation and Competition - Competition".
(2) Additional amortization of unspecified regulatory assets, as ordered by the Connecticut Department of Public Utility Control in its December 31, 1996 retail rate order, provided that, as expected, common equity return on utility investment exceeds 10.5% after recording the additional amortization. Substantially all of this accelerated amortization may have to be eliminated in order to achieve the minimum 10% price reduction (compared to the average fully bundled prices in effect on December 31, 1996), while providing for the added costs imposed by Public Act 98-28, a statute enacted by Connecticut, designed to restructure the State's regulated electric utility industry. See Item 1. Business "Franchises, Regulation and Competition - Competition".
- 24 -
NUCLEAR GENERATION
UI holds ownership and leasehold interests totalling 17.5% (203.35 megawatts) in Seabrook Unit 1, and a 3.685% (41.26 megawatts) ownership interest in Millstone Unit 3. UI also owns 9.5% of the common stock of Connecticut Yankee, and was entitled to an equivalent percentage (53.21 megawatts) of the generating capability of the Connecticut Yankee Unit prior to its retirement from commercial operation on December 4, 1996.
Seabrook Unit 1 commenced commercial operation in June of 1990, pursuant to an operating license issued by the NRC, which will expire in 2026. It is jointly owned by eleven New England electric utility entities, including the Company, and is operated by a service company subsidiary of Northeast Utilities (NU). Through December 31, 1998, Seabrook Unit 1 has operated at a lifetime capacity factor of 80%.
Millstone Unit 3 commenced commercial operation in April of 1986, pursuant to a 40-year operating license issued by the NRC. It is jointly owned by thirteen New England electric utility entities, including the Company, and is operated by another service company subsidiary of NU. Through March 30, 1996, when Millstone Unit 3 was taken out of service following an engineering evaluation that determined that four safety-related valves would not be able to perform their design function during certain postulated events, Millstone Unit 3 had operated at a lifetime capacity factor of 71.9%. A comprehensive Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) inquiry into the conformity of the unit and its operations with all applicable NRC regulations and standards was completed and the unit was allowed to resume operation beginning on July 4, 1998. It achieved full power production on July 14, 1998, and has operated at a capacity factor of 70.5% from that date through December 31, 1998.
While Millstone Unit 3 was out of service, UI incurred incremental replacement power costs estimated at approximately $500,000 per month, and experienced an adverse impact on net earnings per share of approximately $.02 per month. In addition to these costs of replacement power, substantial incremental direct costs were incurred to address the above-described problems with respect to Millstone Unit 3. UI and the other nine non-NU owners of Millstone Unit 3 paid their monthly shares of the costs of the unit, but reserved their rights to contest whether the NU service company subsidiary that is the operator of Millstone Unit 3 and/or one or both of the two operating NU subsidiary electric utility companies that are the majority joint owners of Millstone Unit 3 are responsible for the additional costs that the other joint owners experienced as a result of the shutdown of Millstone Unit 3. On August 7, 1997, the Company and the other nine minority, non-NU joint owners of Millstone Unit 3 filed lawsuits against NU and its trustees, as well as a demand for arbitration against The Connecticut Light and Power Company and Western Massachusetts Electric Company, the operating electric utility subsidiaries of NU that are the majority joint owners of the unit and have contracted with the minority joint owners to operate it. The ten non-NU joint owners, who together own about 19.5% of the unit, claim that NU and its subsidiaries failed to comply with NRC regulations, failed to operate Millstone Station in accordance with good utility operating practice and concealed their failures from the non-operating joint owners and the NRC. The arbitration and lawsuits seek to recover costs of purchasing replacement power and increased operation and maintenance costs resulting from the shutdown of Millstone Unit 3.
The Connecticut Yankee Unit commenced commercial operation in January of 1968, pursuant to a 40-year operating license issued by the NRC. It is owned, through ownership of Connecticut Yankee's common stock, by ten New England electric utilities, including the Company, and is operated by another service company subsidiary of NU. Prior to July 23, 1996, when the Connecticut Yankee Unit was taken out of service following an engineering evaluation that determined that safety-related air cooling system pipes could crack if the plant should lose its outside source of electric power, the Connecticut Yankee Unit had operated at a lifetime capacity factor of 75.6%. Prior to and following its removal from service in July of 1996, NRC inspections of the Connecticut Yankee Unit revealed issues that were similar to those previously identified at Millstone Station and identified a number of significant deficiencies in the engineering calculations and analyses that were relied upon to ensure the adequacy of the design of key safety systems at the unit. Pending a resolution of these issues, an economic study by the owners, comparing the costs of continuing to operate the Connecticut Yankee Unit over the remaining period of its operating license, which expires in 2007, to the costs of shutting down the unit permanently and incurring replacement power costs for the same period, resulted in a decision, on December 4, 1996, by the Board of Directors of Connecticut Yankee to retire the Connecticut Yankee Unit from commercial operation.
- 25 -
The power purchase contract under which the Company has purchased its 9.5% entitlement to the Connecticut Yankee Unit's power output permits Connecticut Yankee to recover 9.5% of all of its costs from UI. In December of 1996, Connecticut Yankee filed decommissioning cost estimates and amendments to the power contracts with its owners with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Based on regulatory precedent, this filing seeks confirmation that Connecticut Yankee will continue to collect from its owners its decommissioning costs, the unrecovered investment in the Connecticut Yankee Unit and other costs associated with the permanent shutdown of the Connecticut Yankee Unit. On August 31, 1998, a FERC Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) released an initial decision regarding Connecticut Yankee's December 1996 filing. The initial decision contains provisions that would allow Connecticut Yankee to recover, through the power contracts with its owners, the balance of its net unamortized investment in the Connecticut Yankee Unit, but would disallow recovery of a portion of the return on Connecticut Yankee's investment in the unit. The ALJ's decision also states that decommissioning cost collections by Connecticut Yankee, through the power contracts, should continue to be based on a previously-approved estimate until a new, more reliable estimate has been prepared and tested. During October of 1998, Connecticut Yankee and its owners filed briefs setting forth exceptions to the ALJ's initial decision. If this initial decision is upheld by the FERC, Connecticut Yankee could be required to write off a portion of the regulatory asset on its Balance Sheet associated with the retirement of the Connecticut Yankee Unit. In this event, however, the Company would not be required to record any write-off on account of its 9.5% ownership share in Connecticut Yankee, because the Company has recorded its regulatory asset associated with the retirement of the Connecticut Yankee Unit net of any return on investment. The Company cannot predict, at this time, the outcome of the FERC proceeding. However, the Company will continue to support Connecticut Yankee's efforts to contest the ALJ's initial decision.
The Company's estimate of its remaining share of Connecticut Yankee costs, including decommissioning, less return of investment (approximately $9.9 million) and return on investment (approximately $4.7 million) at December 31, 1998, is approximately $32.7 million. This estimate, which is subject to ongoing review and revision, has been recorded by the Company as an obligation and a regulatory asset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS
Seabrook Unit 1, Millstone Unit 3 and the Connecticut Yankee Unit are each subject to the licensing requirements and jurisdiction of the NRC under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and to a variety of other state and federal requirements.
The NRC regularly conducts generic reviews of numerous technical issues, ranging from seismic design to education and fitness for duty requirements for licensed plant operators. The outcome of reviews that are currently pending, and the ways in which the nuclear generating units in which UI has interests may be affected by these reviews, cannot be determined; and the cost of complying with any new requirements that might result from the reviews cannot be estimated. However, such costs could be substantial.
Additional capital expenditures and increased operating costs for nuclear generating units may result from modifications of these facilities or their operating procedures required by the NRC, or from actions taken by other joint owners or companies having entitlements in the units. Some equipment modifications have required and may in the future require shutdowns or deratings of generating units that would not otherwise be necessary and that result in additional costs for replacement power. The amounts of additional capital expenditures, increased operating costs and replacement power costs cannot now be predicted, but they have been and may in the future be substantial.
Public controversy concerning nuclear power could also adversely affect Seabrook Unit 1 and Millstone Unit 3. Proposals to force the premature shutdown of nuclear plants in other New England states have in the past received serious attention, and the licensing of Seabrook Unit 1 was a regional issue. A renewal of the controversy could be expected to increase the costs of operating the nuclear generating units in which UI has interests; and it is possible that one or the other of the units could be shut down prematurely, resulting in increased fuel and/or replacement power costs, earlier funding of costs associated with decommissioning the unit and acceleration of depreciation expense, which could have an adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and/or results of operations.
- 26 -
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
The Price-Anderson Act, currently extended through August 1, 2002, limits public liability resulting from a single incident at a nuclear power plant. The first $200 million of liability coverage is provided by purchasing the maximum amount of commercially available insurance. Additional liability coverage will be provided by an assessment of up to $83.9 million per incident, levied on each of the nuclear units licensed to operate in the United States, subject to a maximum assessment of $10 million per incident per nuclear unit in any year. In addition, if the sum of all public liability claims and legal costs resulting from any nuclear incident exceeds the maximum amount of financial protection, each reactor operator can be assessed an additional 5% of $83.9 million, or $4.2 million. The maximum assessment is adjusted at least every five years to reflect the impact of inflation. With respect to each of the three nuclear generating units in which the Company has an interest, the Company will be obligated to pay its ownership and/or leasehold share of any statutory assessment resulting from a nuclear incident at any nuclear generating unit. Based on its interests in these nuclear generating units, the Company estimates its maximum liability would be $17.8 million per incident. However, any assessment would be limited to $2.1 million per incident per year.
The NRC requires each nuclear generating unit to obtain property insurance coverage in a minimum amount of $1.06 billion and to establish a system of prioritized use of the insurance proceeds in the event of a nuclear incident. The system requires that the first $1.06 billion of insurance proceeds be used to stabilize the nuclear reactor to prevent any significant risk to public health and safety and then for decontamination and cleanup operations. Only following completion of these tasks would the balance, if any, of the segregated insurance proceeds become available to the unit's owners. For each of the three nuclear generating units in which the Company has an interest, the Company is required to pay its ownership and/or leasehold share of the cost of purchasing such insurance. Although each of these units has purchased $2.75 billion of property insurance coverage, representing the limits of coverage currently available from conventional nuclear insurance pools, the cost of a nuclear incident could exceed available insurance proceeds. Under those circumstances, the nuclear insurance pools that provide this coverage may levy assessments against the insured owner companies if pool losses exceed the accumulated funds available to the pool. The maximum potential assessments against the Company with respect to losses occurring during current policy years are approximately $3.1 million.
WASTE DISPOSAL AND DECOMMISSIONING
Costs associated with nuclear plant operations include amounts for disposal of nuclear wastes, including spent fuel, and for the ultimate decommissioning of the plants. Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, the federal Department of Energy (DOE) is required to design, license, construct and operate a permanent repository for high level radioactive wastes and spent nuclear fuel. The Act requires the DOE to provide for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high level radioactive waste from commercial nuclear plants through contracts with the owners and generators of such waste; and the DOE has established disposal fees that are being paid to the federal government by electric utilities owning or operating nuclear generating units. In return for payment of the prescribed fees, the federal government was required to take title to and dispose of the utilities' high level wastes and spent nuclear fuel beginning no later than January 1998. However, the DOE has announced that its first high level waste repository will not be in operation earlier than 2010 and possibly not earlier than 2013, notwithstanding the DOE's statutory and contractual responsibility to begin disposal of high-level radioactive waste and spent fuel beginning not later than January 31, 1998.
The DOE also announced that, absent a repository, the DOE had no statutory obligation to begin accepting high level wastes and spent nuclear fuel for disposal by January 31, 1998; and the DOE did not begin accepting such wastes and fuel by that date. Numerous utilities and state governments have obtained a judicial determination that the DOE had and has a statutory and contractual responsibility to take title to and dispose of high level wastes and spent nuclear fuel commencing not later than January 31, 1998, and that the contracts between the DOE and the plant owners and generators of such wastes and fuel will provide a potentially adequate remedy for the latter in the event of a breach of the contracts. The DOE is contesting these judicial declarations; and it is unclear at this time whether the United States Congress will enact legislation to address high level wastes/spent fuel disposal issues.
- 27 -
Until the federal government begins receiving such materials, nuclear generating units will need to retain high level wastes and spent nuclear fuel on-site or make other provisions for their storage. Storage facilities for the Connecticut Yankee Unit are deemed adequate, and storage facilities for Millstone Unit 3 are expected to be adequate for the projected life of the unit. Storage facilities for Seabrook Unit 1 are expected to be adequate until at least 2010. Fuel consolidation and compaction technologies are being considered for Seabrook Unit 1 and may provide adequate storage capability for the projected life of the unit. In addition, other licensed technologies, such as dry storage casks, may satisfy spent nuclear fuel storage requirements.
Disposal costs for low-level radioactive wastes (LLW) that result from operation or decommissioning of nuclear generating units have increased significantly in recent years and may continue to rise. The cost increases are a function of increased packaging and transportation costs, and higher fees and surcharges imposed by the disposal facilities. Currently, the Chem Nuclear LLW facility at Barnwell, South Carolina, is open to the Connecticut Yankee Unit, Millstone Unit 3, and Seabrook Unit 1 for disposal of LLW. The Envirocare LLW facility at Clive, Utah, is also open to these generating units for portions of their LLW. All three units have contracts in place for LLW disposal at these disposal facilities.
Because access to LLW disposal may be lost at any time, Millstone Unit 3 and Seabrook Unit 1 have storage plans that will allow on-site retention of LLW for at least five years in the event that disposal is interrupted. The Connecticut Yankee Unit, which has been retired from commercial operation, has a similar storage program, although disposal of its LLW will take place in connection with its decommissioning.
The Company cannot predict whether or when a LLW disposal site will be designated in Connecticut. The State of New Hampshire has not met deadlines for compliance with the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act and has stated that the state is unsuitable for a LLW disposal facility. Both Connecticut and New Hampshire are also pursuing other options for out-of-state disposal of LLW.
NRC licensing requirements and restrictions are also applicable to the decommissioning of nuclear generating units at the end of their service lives, and the NRC has adopted comprehensive regulations concerning decommissioning planning, timing, funding and environmental reviews. UI and the other owners of the nuclear generating units in which UI has interests estimate decommissioning costs for the units and attempt to recover sufficient amounts through their allowed electric rates, together with earnings on the investment of funds so recovered, to cover expected decommissioning costs. Changes in NRC requirements or technology, as well as inflation, can increase estimated decommissioning costs.
New Hampshire has enacted a law requiring the creation of a government-managed fund to finance the decommissioning of nuclear generating units in that state. The New Hampshire Nuclear Decommissioning Financing Committee (NDFC) has established $497 million (in 1999 dollars) as the decommissioning cost estimate for Seabrook Unit 1, of which the Company's share would be approximately $87 million. This estimate assumes the prompt removal and dismantling of the unit at the end of its estimated 36-year energy producing life. Monthly decommissioning payments are being made to the state-managed decommissioning trust fund. UI's share of the decommissioning payments made during 1998 was $2.1 million. UI's share of the fund at December 31, 1998 was approximately $16.5 million.
Connecticut has enacted a law requiring the operators of nuclear generating units to file periodically with the DPUC their plans for financing the decommissioning of the units in that state. The current decommissioning cost estimate for Millstone Unit 3 is $560 million (in 1999 dollars), of which the Company's share would be approximately $21 million. This estimate assumes the prompt removal and dismantling of the unit at the end of its estimated 40-year energy producing life. Monthly decommissioning payments, based on these cost estimates, are being made to a decommissioning trust fund managed by Northeast Utilities (NU). UI's share of the Millstone Unit 3 decommissioning payments made during 1998 was $487,000. UI's share of the fund at December 31, 1998 was approximately $6.5 million. The current decommissioning cost estimate for the Connecticut Yankee Unit, assuming the prompt removal and dismantling of the unit commencing in 1997, is $476 million, of which UI's share would be $45 million. Through December 31, 1998, $85 million has been expended for decommissioning. The projected remaining decommissioning
- 28 -
cost is $391 million, of which UI's share would be $37 million. The decommissioning trust fund for the Connecticut Yankee Unit is also managed by NU. For the Company's 9.5% equity ownership in Connecticut Yankee, decommissioning costs of $2.4 million were funded by UI during 1998, and UI's share of the fund at December 31, 1998 was $25 million.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has issued an exposure draft related to the accounting for the closure and removal costs of long-lived assets, including nuclear plant decommissioning. If the proposed accounting standard were adopted, it may result in higher annual provisions for decommissioning to be recognized earlier in the operating life of nuclear units and an accelerated recognition of the decommissioning obligation. The FASB will be deliberating this issue, and the resulting final pronouncement could be different from that proposed in the exposure draft.
Item 3.