ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Hotels are diversified by seven different national hotel brands and include eighteen full-service hotels and two limited-service hotels. In addition, the Company plans to reposition, by the first quarter of 1998, thirteen of the Hotels (six Holiday Inns, two Days Inns, two Sheratons, and three independent hotels), through an upgrade and conversion, into hotels that operate under the Wyndham Hotel, Wyndham Garden Hotel, Westin Resort, Hilton Hotel, DoubleTree Guest Suites, Crowne Plaza(R), Holiday Inn Select(R), and Hampton Inn(R) brands. The Company believes that following such upgrading and conversion, these hotels will experience increases in occupancy and room rates as a result of the new franchisors' national brand recognition, reservation systems and group sales organization. There can be no assurance that any or all of such brand conversions and repositionings will occur as planned or that, if such brand conversions and repositionings occur, the affected hotels will experience occupancy and rate increases. The Company believes that the diversity of its portfolio moderates the potential effects on the Company of regional economic conditions or local market competition affecting specific hotel franchises, hotel markets or price segments within the industry.
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the Hotels. The chart summarizes the historical performance of the Hotels for each of the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1996. The operating performance of the Holiday Inn Dallas DFW Airport West and the Hampton Inn Richmond Airport was impacted during 1995 by extensive and ongoing renovations at those hotels.
(1) The occupancy, ADR and REVPAR calculations for the Hotels are derived from room revenue included in the audited financial data relating to each of the Hotels for each of the periods indicated except for the following hotels, for which information is audited only from the date of acquisition of such hotel by the company or AGHI (such date is set forth in parentheses): Holiday Inn Resort Monterey (November 1996) and Holiday Inn Dallas DFW Airport West (June 1995). The occupancy, ADR and REVPAR calculations for the periods prior to the date of acquisition of the hotels have been provided to management by the prior owners of such hotels. (2) Year renovated reflects the calendar year in which management deems that a significant renovation was completed at the hotel. (3) This hotel was managed by AGHI prior to its acquisition by the Company. (4) The Company plans to reposition this hotel to operate as a Holiday Inn Select. (5) There can be no assurance that the brand conversion and repositioning of this hotel will occur as planned. (6) The Company plans to reposition this hotel to operate as a Hampton Inn. (7) The Company plans to reposition this hotel to operate as a Crowne Plaza. (8) The Company plans to reposition this hotel to operate as a Wyndham Hotel. (9) The Company plans to reposition this hotel to operate as a Hilton Hotel. (10) The Company repositioned this hotel to operate as a Wyndham Garden Hotel. The Lessee has retained Wyndham Hotel Corporation as the manager of this hotel. (11) The Company plans to reposition this hotel to operate as a Westin Resort. (12) The Company plans to reposition this hotel to operate as a DoubleTree Guest Suites.
OPTIONS TO PURCHASE AND RIGHTS OF FIRST REFUSAL
Pursuant to the option agreements (the "Option Agreements") relating to the Courtyard by Marriott in Boise, Idaho and the Courtyard by Marriott in Durham, North Carolina (the "Option Hotels), the Company has the option and right of first refusal to acquire AGHI's (i) 50.0% partnership interest in the partnership that owns the Boise, Idaho Option Hotel and (ii) 16.7% partnership interest in the partnership that owns the Durham, North Carolina Option Hotel. The Boise, Idaho Option Hotel was opened in October 1996. The Durham, North Carolina Option Hotel is currently under development and is expected to open during April 1997.
THE PARTICIPATING LEASES
In order for the Company to qualify as a REIT, neither the Company nor the Operating Partnership may operate hotels or related properties. The Operating Partnership leases each Hotel to the Lessee for a term of twelve years from the inception of the lease pursuant to separate Participating Leases that provide for rent equal to the greater of Base Rent or Participating Rent. In addition, the Company and the Lessee are party to a Lease Master Agreement (the "Lease Master Agreement"), which sets forth the terms of the Lessee Pledge and certain other matters. Each Participating Lease with the Lessee contains terms substantially similar to those described below.
Participating Lease Terms. Each Participating Lease has a term of twelve years from the date of the Company's acquisition of the hotel subject to such lease, subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain contingencies described in the Participating Lease.
Base Rent; Participating Rent; Additional Charges. Each Participating Lease requires the Lessee to pay (i) fixed weekly Base Rent, (ii) on a monthly basis, the excess of Participating Rent over Base Rent, with Participating Rent based on certain percentages of room revenue, food and beverage revenue and telephone and other revenue at each Hotel, and (iii) certain other amounts, including interest accrued on any late payments or charges ("Additional Charges"). Base Rent and Participating Rent departmental thresholds (departmental revenue on which the rent percentage is based) are increased annually by a percentage equal to the percentage increase in the CPI (as defined in "Glossary") (CPI percentage increase plus 0.75% in the case of the Participating Rent departmental revenue thresholds) compared to the prior year. Base Rent is payable weekly in arrears. Participating Rent is payable in arrears based on a predetermined monthly schedule. The monthly departmental thresholds and the weekly Base Rent are set based on each Hotel's annual budget, which reflects the seasonal variations in the Hotel's revenues. Participating Rent payments during each calendar quarter will be adjusted at the end of each quarter to reflect actual results. A final adjustment of the Participating Rent for each fiscal year will be made, based on audited statements of revenue for each hotel.
The table below sets forth (i) the annual Base Rent, (ii) Participating Rent formulas and (iii) the pro forma rent that would have been paid for each hotel pursuant to the terms of the Participating Leases based on the historical revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 1996, as if the Company had owned the hotels and the Participating Leases were in effect during such twelve- month period and January 1, 1996 was the beginning of the lease year.
* Pro forma Base Rent at the Days Inn Lake Buena Vista exceeded Participating Rent by $306 and therefore Participating Rent has been increased by this amount to reflect the excess of Base Rent over Participating Rent for the applicable period.
(1) If food & beverage ("F&B") revenue exceeds $1,000, Participating Rent will include 5% of total F&B revenue. (2) There was an additional adjustment to the room department Participating Rent thresholds of 4.0% in 1997. (3) There was an additional adjustment to the room department Participating Rent thresholds of 2.0% in 1997 and 2.0% in 1998. (4) The Participating Rent formula was reset in 1997 to the following: Rooms: 30.0% of first $1,400; 70.0% thereafter; Telephone and Other: 30.0%. Base Rent was reset in 1997 to $800 and will grow at CPI thereafter. (5) There will be an additional adjustment to the room department Participating Rent thresholds of 3.0% in 2000. (6) The Participating Rent formula was reset in 1997 to the following: Rooms: 25.0% of the first $2,500; 60.0% of next $2,400; 70.0% thereafter; F&B: 10.0% of first $2,000; 20.0% thereafter; Telephone and Other: 30.0%. Base Rent was reset in 1997 to $1,750 and will grow at CPI thereafter. (7) The Participating Rent formula was reset in 1997 to the following: Rooms: 20.0% of first $3,875; 65.0% of next $1,300; 75.0% thereafter; F&B: 5.0% of first $1,625; 10.0% thereafter; Telephone and Other: 30.0%. Base Rent was reset in 1997 to $1,400 and will grow at CPI thereafter. (8) There will be an additional adjustment to the room department Participating Rent thresholds of 2.0% in 1999 and 2.0% in 2000. (9) The Participating Rent formula was reset in 1997 to the following: Rooms: 25.0% of first $3,350; 60.0% of next $1,400; 70.0% thereafter; F&B: 5.0% of first $1,350; 10.0% thereafter; Telephone and Other: 25.0%. Base Rent was reset in 1997 to $1,400 and will grow at CPI thereafter. (10) The Participating Rent formula was reset in 1997 to the following: Rooms: 20.0% of first $3,350; 60.0% of next $2,800; 70.0% thereafter; F&B: 5.0% of first $1,850; 15.0% thereafter; Telephone and Other: 30.0%. The Participating Rent formula will be reset in 1998 to the following: Rooms: 20.0% of first $3,950; 60.0% of next $3,100; 70.0% thereafter; F&B: 5.0% of first $1,950; 15.0% thereafter; Telephone and Other: 30.0%. Base Rent was reset in 1997 to $2,100 and will grow at CPI thereafter. (11) There will be an additional adjustment to the room department Participating Rent thresholds of 4.0% in 1999.
(12) The Participating Rent formula was reset in 1997 to the following: Rooms: 25.0% of first $3,825; 65.0% of next $950; 75.0% thereafter; F&B: 5.0% of first $1,000; 10.0% thereafter; Telephone and Other: 25.0%. Base Rent was reset in 1997 to $1,800 and will grow at CPI thereafter. (13) There will be an additional adjustment to the room department Participating Rent thresholds of 3.0% in 1999. (14) There will be an additional adjustment to the room department Participating Rent thresholds of 2.0% in 1999 and 2.0% in 2000. (15) The Participating Rent formula will reset in 1998 to the following: Rooms: 25.0% of first $5,744; 60.0% of next $4,468; 70.0% thereafter; F&B: 5.0% of first $747; 10.0% thereafter; Telephone and Other: 50.0%. Base Rent will reset in 1998 to $4,459 and grow at CPI thereafter. (16) There will be an additional adjustment to the room department Participating Rent thresholds of 6.5% in 1999 and 3.0% in 2000. (17) The Participating Rent formula will reset in 1998 to the following: Rooms: 20.0% of first $3,180; 60.0% of next $1,430; 70.0% thereafter; F&B: 2.5% of first $794; 5.0% thereafter; Telephone and Other: 50.0%. Base Rent will reset in 1998 to $1,543 and grow at CPI thereafter. (18) The Participating Rent formula will reset in 1998 to the following: Rooms: 25.0% of first $2,460; 60.0% of next $911; 70.0% thereafter; F&B: 7.5% of first $1,522; 15.0% thereafter; Telephone and Other: 30.0%. Base Rent will reset in 1998 to $1,564 and grow at CPI thereafter. (19) The Participating Rent formula will reset in 1998 to the following: Rooms: 25.0% of first $2,625; 65.0% of next $1,275; 75.0% thereafter; F&B 7.5% of first $1,130; 20.0% thereafter; Telephone and Other 30.0%. Base Rent will be reset to $1,460 and grow at CPI thereafter. (20) There will be an additional adjustment to the room department Participating Rent thresholds of 2.5% in 1999 and 2.5% in 2000 and 1.0% in 2001. (21) The Participating Rent formula will reset in 1998 to the following: Rooms: 20.0% of first $3,875; 60.0% of next $2,200; 70.0% thereafter; F&B: 2.5% of first $1,737; 5.0% thereafter; Telephone and Other: 25.0%. Base Rent will reset in 1998 to $2,284 and grow at CPI thereafter. (22) There will be an additional adjustment to the room department Participating Rent thresholds of 3.0% in 1999 and 1.0% in 2000. (23) The Participating Rent formula will reset in 1998 to the following: Rooms: 25.0% of first $2,450; 65.0% of next $1,050; 75.0% thereafter; F&B: 5.0% of first $742; 10.0% thereafter; Telephone and Other: 25.0%. Base Rent will reset in 1998 to $1,466 and grow at CPI thereafter. (24) The Participating Rent formula will reset in 1998 to the following: Rooms: 20.0% of first $2,575; 60.0% of next $1,000; 70.0% thereafter; F&B: 7.5% of first $1,100; 15.0% thereafter; Telephone and Other: 25.0%. Base Rent will reset in 1998 to $1,162 and grow at CPI thereafter.
Other than real estate and personal property taxes and assessments, rent payable under the ground leases, casualty insurance, including loss of income insurance, capital impositions and capital replacements and refurbishments (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles), which are obligations of the Company, the Participating Leases require the Lessee to pay rent, liability insurance (see "Insurance and Property Taxes and Assessments"), all costs and expenses and all utility and other charges incurred in the operation of the Hotels. The Participating Leases also provide for rent reductions and abatements in the event of damage or destruction or a partial taking of any Hotel as described under "Damage to Hotels" and "Condemnation of Hotels."
Lessee Capitalization; Lessee Pledge. At the time of the IPO, the partners of the Lessee (i) capitalized the Lessee with $500,000 in cash and (ii) pursuant to the Lessee Pledge, pledged 275,000 OP Units to the Company to secure the Lessee's obligations under the Participating Leases. OP Units subject to the Lessee Pledge may be released therefrom without duplication, (a) on a one-for- one basis as the Lessee acquires OP Units or shares of Common Stock or (b) upon the contribution to the Lessee of cash or an increase in undistributed earnings in an amount equal to the then current market value of the OP Units to be released from the Lessee Pledge.
Distribution Restrictions. The Lessee may not pay any distributions to its partners (except for the purpose of permitting its partners to pay taxes on the income attributable to them from the Lessee and except for distributions relating to interest or dividends received by the Lessee from cash or securities held by it) or make any other distributions to affiliates of the Lessee, other than limited amounts relating to Lessee overhead or pursuant to the Management Agreements, until the Lessee's net worth equals the greater of (i) $6.0 million or (ii) 17.5% of actual rent payments from hotels leased to the Lessee during the preceding calendar year (annualized for 1996) (the "Lessee Distribution Restriction"). During the period of the Lessee Distribution Restriction, the Lessee will be required, subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, to purchase annually Common Stock on the open market or, if any such purchase would violate the ownership limitation in the Company's Charter, or at the option of the Operating Partnership, OP Units, in an amount equal to the Lessee's cash flow attributable to the Participating Leases for the preceding fiscal year (after establishing a reserve for partner tax distributions). For purposes of calculating the net worth threshold for the Lessee Distribution Restriction, annual rent payments will be determined on a calendar year basis and will be annualized for any partial calendar year. If the Lessee's net worth exceeds the net worth threshold for the Lessee Distribution Restriction, the Lessee may make distributions to its partners, provided that, after such distribution, the Lessee's net worth equals or exceeds the net worth threshold for the Lessee Distribution Restriction and provided that at such time there exists no Event of Default (as defined in the Participating Leases) under the Participating Leases. All Common Stock or OP Units
acquired by the Lessee during the period of the Lessee Distribution Restriction may not be sold or transferred for a period of two years after their acquisition (other than to partners in the Lessee) unless, following such transfer, the net worth threshold for the Lessee Distribution Restriction is satisfied.
Subordination of Management Fees. The Lessee has engaged AGHI to operate 19 of the Hotels. The Participating Leases provide that effective upon written notice by the Company of any monetary Event of Default under the Participating Leases or a default under the Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment ("FF&E") Note, and during the continuance thereof, no management fees will be paid to AGHI with respect to any Hotel. Any deferred management fee will accrue without interest until any such default has been cured. In addition, each Management Agreement which the Lessee enters into must provide that AGHI will repay to the Company any payments made to it by the Lessee while any such default has occurred and is continuing.
Maintenance and Improvements. The Participating Leases obligate the Company to establish annually a reserve for capital improvements at each Hotel (including the periodic replacement or refurbishment of FF&E). The aggregate amount of such reserves is equal to 4.0% of total revenue for each Hotel (which, on a consolidated pro forma basis for the twelve months ended September 30, 1996, represented approximately 5.4% of room revenue). Any unexpended amounts will remain the property of the Company upon termination of the Participating Leases. Otherwise, the Lessee will be required, at its expense, to maintain the Hotels in good order and repair, except for ordinary wear and tear, and to make non-structural, foreseen and unforeseen, and ordinary and extraordinary, repairs (other than capital repairs) which may be necessary and appropriate to keep the Hotels in good order and repair.
The Lessee is not obligated to bear the cost of any capital improvements or capital repairs to the Hotels. With the consent of the Company, however, the Lessee, at its expense, may make capital additions, modifications or improvements to the Hotels, provided that such action does not significantly alter their character or purposes and maintains or enhances the value of the Hotels. All such alterations, replacements and improvements are subject to all the terms and provisions of the Participating Leases and will become the property of the Company upon termination of the Participating Leases. The Company owns substantially all personal property (other than inventory) not affixed to, or deemed a part of, the real estate or improvements at the Hotels, but does not own such personal property which would cause any portion of the rents under the Participating Leases not to qualify as "rents from real property" for REIT income test purposes.
Insurance and Property Taxes and Assessments. The Company is responsible for paying for (i) real estate and personal property taxes and assessments at the Hotels (except to the extent that personal property associated with the Hotels is owned by the Lessee), (ii) casualty insurance on the Hotels and (iii) business interruption insurance covering the Base Rent and Participating Rent. The aggregate real estate and personal property tax obligations for the Hotels during the twelve months ended December 31, 1996 was approximately $4.3 million. The Lessee is required to pay or reimburse the Company for all liability insurance on the Hotels, with extended coverage, including comprehensive general public liability, workers' compensation and other insurance appropriate and customary for properties similar to the Hotels and naming the Company as an additional named insured.
Events of Default. Events of Default under the Participating Leases and the Lease Master Agreement include, among others, the following:
(i) the failure by the Lessee to pay Base or Participating Rent when due and the continuation of such failure for a period of ten days after receipt by the Lessee of notice from the Company;
(ii) the failure by the Lessee to observe or perform any other term of a Participating Lease or the Lease Master Agreement and the continuation of such failure for a period of 30 days after receipt by the Lessee of notice from the Company thereof, unless the Lessee is diligently proceeding to cure, in which case the cure period will be extended to 180 days;
(iii) if the Lessee shall generally not be paying its debts as they become due or file a petition for relief or reorganization or arrangement or any other petition in bankruptcy, for liquidation or to take advantage of any bankruptcy or insolvency law of any jurisdiction, make a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, consent to the appointment of a custodian, receiver, trustee or other similar officer with respect to it or any substantial part of its assets, be adjudicated insolvent or take corporate action for the purpose of any of the foregoing;
(iv) if the Lessee is liquidated or dissolved or commences proceedings to effect the same, or ceases to do business or sells all or substantially all of its assets;
(v) if the Lessee voluntarily discontinues operations of a Hotel for more than three days, except as a result of damage, destruction, condemnation or force majeure; or
(vi) if an event of default beyond applicable cure periods occurs under the Franchise License with respect to any Hotel as a result of any action or failure to act by the Lessee or its agents (including AGHI).
In addition, a default of the type described above will result in a cross- default of all other Participating Leases to which the Lessee is a party.
Indemnification. Under each of the Participating Leases, the Lessee has agreed to indemnify, and is obligated to hold harmless, the Company from and against all liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred by, imposed upon or asserted against the Company on account of, among other things, (i) any accident or injury to persons or property on or about the Hotels, including claims under liquor liability, "dram shop" or similar laws; (ii) any misuse by the Lessee or any of its agents of the leased property; (iii) any environmental liability (except to the extent such liability results from a pre-existing condition) (see "Environmental Matters" below); (iv) taxes and assessments in respect of the Hotels (other than real estate and personal property taxes and assessments (other than on property owned by the Lessee) and income taxes of the Company on income attributable to the Hotels and capital impositions); (v) any breach of the Participating Leases by the Lessee; or (vi) any breach of any subleases related to the Hotels, provided, however, that such indemnification does not require the Lessee to indemnify the Company against the Company's own negligent acts or omissions or willful misconduct.
Assignment and Subleasing. The Lessee is not permitted to sublet all or any part of the Hotels or assign its interest under any of the Participating Leases, other than to an affiliate of the Lessee, without the prior written consent of the Company. The Company has generally agreed to consent to any sublease of any portion of any Hotel that sells alcoholic beverages to the Beverage Corporations (as defined in "Formation Transactions") or of a retail portion of any Hotel (provided such sublease will not cause any portion of the Rents to fail to qualify as "rents from real property" for REIT income qualification test purposes). See "Sublease" below. No such assignment or subletting will release the Lessee from any of its obligations under the Participating Leases.
Damage to Hotels. In the event of damage to or destruction of any Hotel covered by insurance which then renders the hotel unsuitable for its intended use and occupancy, the Company may elect not to repair, rebuild or restore the hotel, in which event the Participating Lease shall terminate, and the Company generally shall be entitled to retain any proceeds of insurance related to such damage or destruction. In the event the Company terminates a Participating Lease under such circumstances, the Company, at its option, must either (i) pay the Lessee the fair market value of the Lessee's leasehold interest in the remaining term of the lease (which amount will be determined by discounting to present value, for each year of the remainder of the lease term, cash flow attributable to such lease after deducting the cost component of the applicable management fees, at an annual discount rate of 12% (for the purposes of such calculation, the annual cash flow for each remaining year of the lease term shall be equal to the cash flow attributable to such lease for the twelve months ended on the lease termination date)) or (ii) offer to lease to the Lessee a substitute hotel on terms that would create a leasehold interest in such hotel with a fair market value equal to or exceeding the fair market value of the Lessee's remaining leasehold interest under the Participating Lease to be terminated.
In the event that damage to or destruction of a Hotel which is covered by insurance does not render such hotel unsuitable for its intended use and occupancy as a hotel, the Company or, at the Company's option, the Lessee, generally will be obligated to repair or restore such hotel. In the event of material damage to or destruction of any Hotel which is not covered by insurance, the Company may either repair, rebuild or restore the hotel (at the Company's expense) to substantially the same condition as existed immediately prior to such damage or terminate the Participating Lease without penalty. In the event of non-material damage to a Hotel, the Company is required to repair, rebuild or restore the hotel at its expense. During any period required for repair or restoration of any damaged or destroyed Hotel, rent will be equitably abated.
Condemnation of Hotels. In the event of a total condemnation of a Current Hotel, the relevant Participating Lease will terminate with respect to such hotel as of the date of taking, and the Company and the Lessee will be entitled to their shares of any condemnation award in accordance with the provisions of the Participating Lease. In the event of a partial taking which does not render the hotel unsuitable for the Lessee's use, the Lessee shall restore the untaken
portion of the hotel to a complete architectural unit, and the Company shall contribute to the cost of such restoration that part of the condemnation award required for such restoration.
Termination of Participating Leases upon Disposition of the Current Hotels. In the event the Company enters into an agreement to sell or otherwise transfer a Current Hotel, the Company will have the right to terminate the Participating Lease with respect to such hotel upon 30 days' prior written notice upon either (i) paying the Lessee the fair market value of the Lessee's leasehold interest in the remaining term of the Participating Lease to be terminated (which amount will be determined by discounting to present value, for each year of the remainder of the lease term, cash flow attributable to such lease after deducting the cost component of the applicable management fees, at an annual discount rate of 12% (for the purposes of such calculation, the annual cash flow for each remaining year of the lease term shall be equal to the cash flow attributable to such lease for the twelve months ended on the lease termination date)) or (ii) offering to lease to the Lessee a substitute hotel on terms that would create a leasehold interest in such hotel with a fair market value equal to or exceeding the fair market value of the Lessee's remaining leasehold interest under the Participating Lease to be terminated.
Termination of Participating Leases upon Change in Tax Laws. In the event that changes in federal income tax laws allow the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate to directly operate hotels, the Company will have the right to terminate all, but not less than all, Participating leases with the Lessee, in which event the Company will pay the Lessee the fair market value of the remaining term of the Participating Lease.
Franchise Licenses. The Company has agreed that the Lessee will be the licensee under each of the Franchise Licenses on the Hotels. Holiday Inn, Promus (on behalf of Hampton Inn), Marriott and Hilton have agreed that upon the occurrence of certain events of default by the Lessee under a Franchise License, such franchisors will temporarily transfer the Franchise License for the hotel to an operator designated by the Company and acceptable to such franchisor to allow the new operator time to apply for a new Franchise License. The Company intends to seek similar temporary operational rights with respect to new Franchise Licenses that are expected to be entered into with Wyndham, DoubleTree, Crowne Plaza, Westin and Sheraton.
Sublease. In order to facilitate compliance with state and local liquor laws and regulations, the Lessee subleases those areas of the Hotels (other than the Radisson Hotel Arlington Heights and Wyndham Garden Hotel-Marietta (formerly the Four Points by Sheraton(R))) that comprise the restaurant and other areas where alcoholic beverages are served to the Beverage Corporations. In accordance with the terms of the Beverage Subleases, each Beverage Corporation is obligated to pay to the Lessee rent payments equal to 30% of each such corporation's annual gross revenues generated from the sale of food and beverages generated from such areas; however, pursuant to the Participating Leases, such subleases will not reduce the Participating Rent payments to the Company, which it is entitled to receive from such food and beverage sales.
Other Lease Covenants. The Lessee has agreed that during the term of the Participating Leases it will maintain a ratio of total debt to Consolidated Net Worth (as determined in the Participating Leases) of less than or equal to 50.0%, exclusive of capitalized leases and the FF&E Note. In the event the Lessee is required to pledge any of its assets to the Company's lenders in connection with a Company hotel financing, and such assets are subsequently sold in a foreclosure proceeding, the Lessee will be entitled to be reimbursed by the Company for the fair market value of such assets.
Inventory. The initial standard inventory of goods and supplies required in the operation of the hotels has been purchased at the Lessee's expense and is owned by the Lessee. Any inventory used by the Lessee in the operation of each Hotel shall, upon termination of its Participating Lease, be purchased by the Company or its designee for its fair market value.
Approval of Managers by Company. The Company has the right to approve (which approval will not be unreasonably withheld) the engagement by the Lessee of any operator of a Hotel other than AGHI or an affiliate of AGHI. The Company has the right to approve the payment of management fees to AGHI under the Management Agreements in excess of 3.5% of the gross revenues at a particular hotel.
The Management Agreements
AGHI
The Lessee has engaged AGHI to manage 19 of the Hotels pursuant to the Management Agreements. The following is a summary of the Management Agreements and certain related agreements:
Management Agreement Terms. Each Management Agreement has an initial twelve-year term. In the event of the extension or renewal of the term of the applicable Participating Lease, the Management Agreement will be similarly extended or renewed.
Management Fees. Each Management Agreement requires the Lessee to pay AGHI a monthly base fee equal to 1.5% of gross revenues, plus an incentive fee of up to 2.0% of gross revenues. AGHI is entitled to receive an incentive fee equal to 0.025% of annual gross revenues for each 0.1% increase in annual gross revenues over the gross revenues for the preceding twelve-month period up to the maximum incentive fee. Such incentive fee is payable quarterly and is adjusted at the end of each calendar year to reflect actual results. Every four years the basis upon which the incentive fee is calculated is required to be renegotiated between the Lessee and the Manager. The payment of the management fees to AGHI by the Lessee are subordinate to the Lessee's obligations to the Company under the Participating Leases. The management fees payable to AGHI during 1996 and 1997, respectively, will be earned only to the extent that the Lessee's taxable income during each such year exceeds the sum of rent payable under the Participating Leases, plus Lessee overhead expense, plus $50,000. Each Management Agreement requires AGHI to repay to the Lessee within 60 days after the end of each such year any management fees previously paid but not earned by AGHI under the Management Agreements. In addition, the Lessee has agreed to reimburse AGHI at cost for all expenses incurred in supervising capital improvements to be performed at the hotels. AGHI will be reimbursed, at the rate of $1,500 per month for each full-service hotel and $1,000 per month for each limited-service hotel for accounting and financial services performed by AGHI, which will be funded by the Lessee under the Participating Leases.
Termination of Participating Lease. In the event of a termination of a Participating Lease for a Hotel, the Management Agreement for such hotel also will terminate.
Obligation to Purchase Common Stock. Messrs. Jorns and Wiles, who are stockholders of AGHI and are also executive officers of the Company, have agreed to use 50.0% of the dividends (net of the tax liability attributed to such dividends) received by them from AGHI that are attributable to AGHI's earnings from the management of hotels owned by the Company (as determined in good faith by such officers) to purchase, subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, annually in the open market, during each of the twelve years following the closing of the IPO, additional shares of Common Stock, or, if any such purchase would violate the ownership limitation in the Company's Charter, or at the option of the Operating Partnership, OP Units. For the year ended December 31, 1996, Messrs. Jorns and Wiles were required to purchase 700 and 200 shares of common stock respectively.
Certain Transfer Restrictions. The stockholders of AGHI have agreed, for so long as more than 50.0% of the Management Agreements with respect to the Initial Hotels remain in place, to grant to the Lessee or its designee a right of first refusal to acquire, under certain circumstances, any stock of AGHI that is proposed to be sold in a Change of Control Transaction (as defined below). The Lessee assigned this right to the Company or its designee. This right is subordinate to a right of first refusal in favor of AGHI and the existing stockholders of AGHI set forth in AGHI's existing stockholders' agreement. For this purpose, a Change in Control Transaction means a sale of stock in AGHI that will result in the ability of a person (other than a current stockholder of AGHI) and his or its controlled Affiliates to elect at least a majority of the Board of Directors of AGHI. A Change in Control Transaction does not include (i) an underwritten public offering of common stock of AGHI, (ii) the transfer of stock to a spouse of an AGHI stockholder, (iii) the transfer of stock to a trust for the benefit of the spouse and/or children of an AGHI stockholder, or (iv) the transfer of stock to any corporation or other entity of which a stockholder controls at least 50.0% of the voting interests. The stockholders of AGHI have also granted to the Lessee or its designee, for so long as more than 50.0% of the initial Management Agreements remain in place, a right of first offer to acquire such stockholders' interests in AGHI prior to any proposed merger or business combination transaction involving AGHI that would result in the stockholders of AGHI or their affiliates holding less than 25.0% of the interests in the surviving entity. The Lessee has assigned this right to the Company or its designee.
Wyndham
The Lessee has engaged Wyndham to manage the Wyndham Garden Hotel-Marietta (formerly the Four Points by Sheraton(R)). The management agreement with Wyndham has an initial twelve year term and provides for the payment of a base management fee equal to 1.5% of gross revenues at the hotel plus an incentive management fee of up to 1.5% of gross revenues. Wyndham will be entitled to receive the incentive management fee during the first two years of the term of the agreement if (i) annualized 1997 gross revenues for the hotel exceed 1996 gross revenues for the hotel by at least 6% and (ii) 1998 gross revenues for the hotel exceed 1996 gross revenues for the hotel by at least 12%. Thereafter, the incentive management fee will be earned if annual gross revenues for the hotel exceed the 1998 gross revenues for the hotel by at least the cumulative percentage increase in CPI since 1998. The Lessee's payment of the base management fee to Wyndham is subordinated to the payment of Base Rent under the Participating Lease relating to the hotel, and the payment of the incentive management fee to Wyndham is subordinated to the payment of the Base Rent and Participating Rent thereunder. In addition, Wyndham will be reimbursed by the Lessee, at an initial rate of approximately $4,960 per month, for accounting and financial services performed by Wyndham.
MORTGAGE INDEBTEDNESS
The Holiday Inn Dallas DFW South is subject to non-recourse mortgage indebtedness in the outstanding principal amount of $14.0 million as of December 31, 1996 (the "DFW South Loan"). The DFW South Loan was entered into on January 30, 1996, bears interest at the rate of 8.75% per annum and is payable in equal monthly installments of principal and interest of approximately $125,930 each. The DFW South Loan matures on January 1, 2011, at which time a balloon payment in the amount of approximately $6,120,000 will be due and payable. The loan may not be prepaid in whole or in part until after February 1, 1998 and after such date may only be prepaid in whole with payment of a yield maintenance premium generally equal to the discounted present value of all interest payments due between the prepayment date and maturity of the loan.
The Courtyard by Marriott-Meadowlands is subject to non-recourse mortgage indebtedness that secures two notes in the outstanding principal amounts of approximately $4.5 million and $575,800, respectively, as of December 31, 1996 (the "Secaucus Loans"). The $4.5 million portion of the Secaucus Loans, which was entered into on December 30, 1993, bears interest at a rate of 7.5% per annum and is payable in equal monthly installments of principal and interest of approximately $39,300 each. This portion of the Secaucus Loans matures on January 1, 2001, at which time a balloon payment in the amount of approximately $3,985,000 will be due and payable.
The $575,800 portion of the Secaucus Loans was entered into on January 11, 1996, bears interest at a rate of 7.89% per annum and is payable in equal monthly installments of principal and interest of approximately $14,750 that will fully amortize the loan as of January 1, 2001. In connection with the IPO and the transfer of the Courtyard by Marriott-Meadowlands hotel to a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership, the Company agreed to guarantee to the holder of the Secaucus Loans payment of rent under the ground lease relating to the hotel ($150,000 per annum), real estate taxes ($190,500 for the twelve months ended December 31, 1996) and capital reserves required by the Secaucus Loans (4% of the gross revenues), and guarantee that, after a default under the Secaucus Loans, Base Rent from the Participating Lease will be applied to the Secaucus Loans, in each case until such loans are satisfied or such hotel is transferred (by foreclosure or otherwise) to the holder of such loans.
The French Quarter Suites Hotel is subject to a non-recourse mortgage note encumbering the hotel in the outstanding principal amount, as of December 31, 1996, of approximately $9.6 million (the "French Quarter Loan"). The French Quarter Loan was entered into on June 14, 1995, bears interest at the rate of 9.75% per annum and is payable in equal monthly installments of principal and interest of approximately $93,100 each. The French Quarter Loan matures on July 1, 2002, at which time a balloon payment of approximately $8.2 million will be due and payable.
The Radisson Hotel Arlington Heights is subject to a one-year mortgage note in the principal amount of approximately $8.2 million (the "Radisson Loan"). The Radisson Loan bears interest at the rate of 7.5% per annum, and will require quarterly payments in arrears of interest only of $154,100. The Radisson Loan matures on March 3, 1998, at which time a balloon payment of approximately $8.2 million will be due and payable.
LINE OF CREDIT
Neither the Company's Bylaws nor its Charter limits the amount of indebtedness the Company may incur. To ensure that the Company has sufficient liquidity to conduct its operations, including funding the acquisition of additional
hotels, making renovations and capital improvements to hotels and for working capital requirements, the Company has access to the Line of Credit. The Line of Credit is secured by, among other things, first mortgage liens on all of the Hotels, other than Holiday Inn Dallas DFW Airport South, Courtyard by Marriott-Meadowlands, Radisson Hotel Arlington Heights and French Quarter Suites Hotel. The Line of Credit also will be secured by a mortgage lien on any subsequently acquired hotels purchased without outstanding mortgage indebtedness. While the Company currently has a maximum borrowing limit of up to $150 million under the Line of Credit, the Company's aggregate advances under the Line of Credit are limited to the lesser of (i) 40% of the aggregate appraised value of the Hotels and any other hotel securing the Line of Credit after giving effect to the Company's use of proceeds from any indebtedness towards hotel acquisitions and certain renovations and capital improvements, (ii) 40% of the aggregate purchase price of the Hotels and any other hotel acquisitions securing the Line of Credit after giving effect to the Company's use of proceeds from any indebtedness towards hotel acquisitions and certain renovations and capital improvements, and (iii) the combined trailing twelve months EBITDA (defined under the Line of Credit as net income of the Company before interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization to the extent each reduces net income less a 4% reserve for replacements of FF&E) generated by the Hotels and any other hotels securing the Line of Credit, multiplied by 5.0. In addition, the Line of Credit provides that the lenders must consent to any development activities by the Company other than development in connection with the limited expansion of existing hotels. Also, the Line of Credit lenders must approve the lessee, manager and the franchise brand of any hotel securing the Line of Credit in the future. In addition, the Line of Credit requires that the current limited partners of the Lessee own no less than 65% of the limited partnership interests of the Lessee at all times.
Outside of the Line of Credit, the Company and its subsidiaries may incur up to $50 million in additional qualified debt including the debt assumed in connection with the acquisitions of the Holiday Inn Dallas DFW Airport South, Courtyard by Marriott-Meadowlands Hotel, Radisson Hotel Arlington Heights and French Quarter Suites Hotel without prior consent of its Line of Credit lenders. The Line of Credit expires on July 31, 1999 and is subject to extension under certain circumstances for an additional one-year term. Borrowings under the Line of Credit bear interest at 30-day, 60-day or 90-day LIBOR, (5.50%, 5.53% and 5.56% at December 31, 1996), at the option of the Company, plus 1.85% per annum, payable monthly in arrears. Economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, which could increase debt service requirements on borrowings under the Line of Credit and which could reduce the amount of Cash Available for Distribution.
GROUND LEASES
Four of the Hotels are subject to ground leases with third parties with respect to the land underlying each such hotel. The ground leases are triple net leases which require the tenant to pay all expenses of owning and operating the hotel, including real estate taxes and structural maintenance and repair. One other Hotel is subject to a ground lease with the state of Florida for certain offshore real property accessible by the guests of the hotel.
The Courtyard by Marriott-Meadowlands is subject to a ground lease with respect to approximately 0.37 acres. The ground lease terminates in March 2036, with two ten-year options to renew. The lease requires a fixed rent payment equal to $150,000 per year, subject to a 25.0% increase every five years thereafter beginning in 2001 and a percentage rent payment equal to 3.0% of gross room revenues.
The Wyndham Albuquerque Airport Hotel is subject to a ground lease with respect to approximately 10 acres. The ground lease terminates in December 2013, with two five-year options to renew. The lease requires a fixed rent payment equal to $19,180 per year subject to annual consumer price index adjustment and a percentage rent payment equal to 5.0% of gross room revenues, 3.0% of gross receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages, 2.0% of gross receipts from the sale of food and non-alcoholic beverages and 1.0% of gross receipts from the sale of other merchandise or services. The lease also provides the landlord with the right, subject to certain conditions, to require the Company, at its expense, to construct 100 additional hotel rooms if the occupancy rate at the hotel is 85.0% or more for 24 consecutive months and to approve any significant renovations scheduled at the hotel. The occupancy rate at the Wyndham Albuquerque Airport Hotel for the year ended December 31, 1996 was 80.4%.
The Hilton Hotel-Toledo is subject to a ground lease with respect to approximately 8.8 acres. The ground lease terminates in June 2026, with four successive renewal options, each for a ten-year term. The lease requires annual rent payments equal to $25,000, increasing to $50,000 or $75,000 if annual gross room revenues exceed $3.5 million or $4.5 million, respectively.
The Le Baron Airport Hotel is subject to a ground sublease with respect to approximately 5.3 acres, which in turn is subject to a ground lease covering a larger tract of land. The sublease terminates in 2022, with one 30-year option
to renew. The sublease requires the greater of a fixed minimum annual rent of $75,945 (increasing to an annual minimum rent of $100,000 if the option is exercised) or, in the aggregate, 4.0% of gross room revenues, 2.0% of gross food receipts, and 3.0% of gross bar and miscellaneous operations receipts. The sublease also provides the sublessor with the right to approve any significant renovations scheduled at the hotel.
The Sheraton Key Largo property includes approximately 42,500 square feet of off-shore bay bottom land in Florida Bay on which a commercial marina is operated pursuant to a lease from the Board of Trustees of the Internal Improvement Trust Fund of the State of Florida, as lessor. The lease, which terminates in May 2021, requires an annual lease fee of approximately $3,100. SKL of Florida, Inc., the lessee under the lease and the seller of the hotel, gave a quit claim assignment of its interest in the lease to the Company upon the closing of the purchase of the hotel.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Seventeen of the Hotels are operated under Franchise Licenses with nationally recognized hotel companies. In addition, two of the Hotels that are not currently subject to franchise agreements are expected to become subject to franchise agreements during the second quarter of 1997. The Company anticipates that most of the additional hotels in which it invests will be operated under Franchise Licenses. The Franchise Licenses generally specify certain management, operating, recordkeeping, accounting, reporting, and marketing standards and procedures with which the Lessee must comply. The Franchise Licenses obligate the Lessee to comply with each franchisor's standards and requirements with respect to training of operational personnel, safety, maintaining specified insurance, the types of services and products ancillary to guest room services that may be provided by the Lessee, display of signage, and the type, quality, and age of FF&E included in guest rooms, lobbies, and other common areas.
The Franchise Licenses provide for termination at each franchisor's option upon the occurrence of certain events, including the Lessee's failure to pay royalties and fees or perform its other covenants under the respective license agreement, bankruptcy, abandonment of the franchise, commission of a felony, assignment of the license without the consent of the franchisor, or failure to comply with applicable law in the operation of the relevant Hotel. Certain of the Franchise Licenses require that the Company guarantee the payment of franchise fees, liquidated damages and termination fees on behalf of the Lessee. The Lessee is not entitled to terminate the Franchise Licenses unless it receives the prior written consent of the Company. The Franchise Licenses do not renew automatically upon expiration. The Lessee is responsible for making all payments under the Franchise Licenses to the franchisors. Under the franchise agreements, the Lessee pays franchise royalty fees ranging from 2.0% to 5.0% of room revenue.
INSURANCE
The Company carries comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and business interruption insurance with respect to the Hotels, with policy specifications, insured limits and deductibles customarily carried for similar hotels. The Company will carry similar insurance with respect to any other hotels developed or acquired in the future. There are, however, certain types of losses (such as losses arising from wars, certain losses arising from hurricanes and earthquakes, and losses arising from other acts of nature) that are not generally insured because they are either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, the Company could lose its capital invested in the affected hotel, as well as the anticipated future revenues from such hotel, and would continue to be obligated on any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the hotel. Any such loss could adversely affect the business of the Company. Management of the Company believes the Hotels are adequately insured in accordance with industry practices.
ITEM 3.