Item 2. Properties GENERATING FACILITIES
The electric generating capability of the Company as of December 31, 1997, based on summer ratings of the generating units, was as follows:
(1) Effective January 1, 1994, Bridgeport Harbor Station 1 was removed from operation and dispatching under NEPOOL and was placed in deactivated reserve. The unit was reactivated in July 1996 and placed under NEPOOL dispatch to help alleviate power shortages in Connecticut caused by the outages of the three nuclear generating units at Millstone Station and the Connecticut Yankee Unit. See "Nuclear Generation". It is anticipated that Bridgeport Harbor Station 1 will be returned to deactivated reserve status on or about July 1, 1998, when the first phase of a merchant wholesale electric generating facility (Bridgeport Energy Project) being constructed on land leased from UI at Bridgeport Harbor Station. (2) Commencing with the completion of the second phase of the Bridgeport Energy Project, scheduled for July of 1999, a wholesale power marketer will have an option to purchase the capability and energy generated by Bridgeport Harbor Station 2, for a period of twelve years, pursuant to a wholesale power contract. (3) The unit has burned coal since January 1985. (4) Represents UI's 93.705% ownership share of total net capability. This unit is jointly owned by UI (93.705%), Fitchburg Gas and Electric Light Company (4.5%) and the electric departments of three Massachusetts municipalities (1.795%). See Item 1. Business - "Fuel Supply". (5) English Station 7 and 8 were placed in deactivated reserve, effective January 1, 1992. (6) Represents UI's 3.685% ownership share of total net capability. This unit is currently shut down for safety reasons, awaiting NRC authorization for restart. See "Nuclear Generation". (7) Represents UI's 17.5% ownership share of total net capability. In August 1990, UI sold to and leased back from an owner trust established for the benefit of an institutional investor a portion of UI's 17.5% ownership interest in this unit. This portion of the unit is subject to the lien of a first mortgage granted by the owner trustee.
- 18 -
TABULATION OF PEAK LOADS, RESOURCES, AND MARGINS 1997 ACTUAL, 1998 - 2002 FORECAST (MEGAWATTS)
(1) Capacity shown reflects summer ratings of generating units. (2) Winter ratings of UI nuclear and Hydro-Quebec interconnection's equivalent capacity value entitlements (megawatts): Millstone Unit 3 - 42.22 Seabrook Unit 1 - 203.35 Hydro-Quebec - 34.34 (3) At the time of 1997 summer peak, Millstone Unit 3 still retained capability rating for the purposes of satisfying UI's required capacity as a NEPOOL participant. It is assumed that unit will be back in operation by the time of 1998 summer peak. (4) UI's required capacity as a NEPOOL participant. (5) Total generating resources, excluding purchases from New York Power Authority and Shelton Landfill, less capability responsibility. In addition, UI maintains two units (English Station 7 and 8) in deactivated reserve, representing a total of 72.55 MW of generating capacity.
- 19 -
During 1997, the peak load on the Company's system was approximately 1,173 megawatts, which occurred in July. UI's total generating capability at the time was 1,356 megawatts, including a 98 megawatt increase in capability provided by the equivalent capacity value of UI's entitlements in the Hydro-Quebec facility and reflecting the net effect of temporary arrangements with other electric utilities and cogenerators. The Company is currently forecasting an annual average compound growth in peak load of 0.8% during the period 1997 to 2007. Based on current forecasts of loads, UI's generating capability will exceed its projected July-August capability responsibility to NEPOOL for generating capacity through at least 1999, and English Station Units 7 and 8 can be reactivated if higher than anticipated load growth occurs. If, due to the permanent loss of a generating unit or higher than expected load growth, UI's own generating capability becomes inadequate to meet its capability responsibility to NEPOOL, UI expects to be able to reduce the load on its system by the implementation of additional demand-side management programs, to acquire other demand-side and supply-side resources, and/or to purchase capacity from other utilities or from the installed capability spot market, as necessary. However, because the generation and transmission systems of the major New England utilities, including UI, are operated as if they were a single system, the ability of UI to meet its load is and will be dependent on the ability of the region's generation and transmission systems to meet the region's load. See "Nuclear Generation" and Item 1. Business - "Competition" and "Arrangements with Other Utilities".
Shown below is a summary of the Company's sources and uses of electricity for 1997.
MEGAWATT-HOURS (000's) SOURCES USES - ------- ----
OWNED Retail Customers 5,376 Nuclear (Seabrook Unit 1) 1,390 Coal 2,760 Wholesale Oil 2,951 Delivered to NEPOOL 1,256 Gas & Gas Turbines 28 Contracts 1,745 ----- Total Owned 7,129 Company Use & Losses 255 PURCHASED ----- Contracts 962 Total Uses 8,632 NEPOOL 240 ===== Hydro-Quebec 301 ----- Total Sources 8,632 =====
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PLANT
The transmission lines of the Company consist of approximately 102 circuit miles of overhead lines and approximately 17 circuit miles of underground lines, all operated at 345 KV or 115 KV and located within or immediately adjacent to the territory served by the Company. These transmission lines interconnect the Company's English, Bridgeport Harbor and New Haven Harbor generating stations and are part of the New England transmission grid through connections with the transmission lines of The Connecticut Light and Power Company. A major portion of the Company's transmission lines is constructed on a railroad right-of-way pursuant to a Transmission Line Agreement that expires in May 2000.
The Company owns and operates 25 bulk electric supply substations with a capacity of 2,634,000 KVA and 40 distribution substations with a capacity of 212,500 KVA. The Company has 3,150 pole-line miles of overhead distribution lines and 130 conduit-bank miles of underground distribution lines.
See "Capital Expenditure Program" concerning the estimated cost of additions to the Company's transmission and distribution facilities.
- 20 -
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
The Company's 1998-2002 capital expenditure program, excluding allowance for funds used during construction (AFUDC), and its effect on certain capital related items is presently budgeted as follows:
(1) Additional amortization of pre-1997 conservation costs and other unspecified regulatory assets, as ordered by the DPUC in its December 31, 1996 Order, provided that, as expected, common equity return on utility investment exceeds 10.5% after recording the additional amortization.
Note: Capital Expenditures and their effect on certain capital related items are estimates subject to change due to future events and conditions that may be substantially different than those used in developing the projections.
- 21 -
NUCLEAR GENERATION
UI holds ownership and leasehold interests totalling 17.5% (203.35 megawatts) in Seabrook Unit 1, and a 3.685% (41.26 megawatts) ownership interest in Millstone Unit 3. UI also owns 9.5% of the common stock of Connecticut Yankee, and was entitled to an equivalent percentage (53.21 megawatts) of the generating capability of the Connecticut Yankee Unit prior to its retirement from commercial operation on December 4, 1996.
Seabrook Unit 1 commenced commercial operation in June of 1990, pursuant to an operating license issued by the NRC, which will expire in 2026. It is jointly owned by eleven New England electric utility entities, including the Company, and is operated by a service company subsidiary of Northeast Utilities (NU). Through December 31, 1997, Seabrook Unit 1 has operated at a lifetime capacity factor of 79%.
Millstone Unit 3 commenced commercial operation in April of 1986, pursuant to a 40-year operating license issued by the NRC. It is jointly owned by thirteen New England electric utility entities, including the Company, and is operated by another service company subsidiary of NU. Through March 30, 1996, when Millstone Unit 3 was taken out of service following an engineering evaluation that determined that four safety-related valves would not be able to perform their design function during certain postulated events, Millstone Unit 3 had operated at a lifetime capacity factor of 71.9%. In April, May and June of 1996, a series of NRC letters to NU and its operating service company subsidiary stated: that the NRC had identified programmatic issues and design deficiencies at Millstone Unit 3 that were similar in nature to those previously identified at Millstone Units 1 and 2, the two other Millstone Station nuclear generating units, which had been taken out of service in November of 1995 and February of 1996, respectively, and are owned by operating subsidiaries of NU and are also operated by the NU service company subsidiary that operates Millstone Unit 3; that the NRC had concluded that the corrective action program at Millstone Station was not currently effective in resolving identified deficiencies; that none of the generating units at Millstone Station may be restarted until the effectiveness of a corrective action program is demonstrated; and that Millstone Station had been placed on the NRC's "watch list" as a Category 3 facility. The NRC deems Category 3 plants as having significant weaknesses that warrant maintaining the plant in shutdown condition until it is demonstrated that adequate programs have been established and implemented to ensure substantial improvement. In October of 1996, the NRC announced that an independent NRC review had concluded that the work environment and management failures were the source of a high volume of employee concerns and allegations related to safety of plant operations and harassment and intimidation of employees at Millstone Station. Concurrently, the NRC issued an order directing NU to devise and implement a compliance plan for handling safety concerns raised by Millstone Station employees, and for assuring an environment free from retaliation and discrimination, and ordering NU to contract for an independent third party to oversee its corrective action program for the employee concerns program. NU is engaged in an extensive effort to address and correct all of the above-described problems at Millstone Station and to develop a comprehensive plan for returning each of the Millstone Station nuclear generating units to service. Although UI's management anticipates that all of the above-described problems with respect to Millstone Unit 3 will be resolved, UI cannot, at this time, predict how long it will take to resolve them, or when the NRC will allow Millstone Unit 3 to return to service.
While Millstone Unit 3 is out of service, UI is incurring incremental replacement power costs estimated at approximately $500,000 per month, and experiencing an adverse impact on net earnings per share of approximately $.02 per month. In addition to these costs of replacement power, substantial incremental direct costs are being incurred to address the above-described problems with respect to Millstone Unit 3, and the Company may be responsible for its 3.685% joint ownership share of these costs. UI and the other nine non-NU owners of Millstone Unit 3 have been paying their monthly shares of the costs of the unit, but have reserved their rights to contest whether one or more of the NU service company subsidiary that is the operator of Millstone Unit 3 and two operating NU subsidiary electric utility companies that are the majority joint owners of Millstone Unit 3 are responsible for the additional costs that the other joint owners have experienced as a result of the shutdown of Millstone Unit 3. On August 7, 1997, the Company and the other nine minority, non-NU joint owners of Millstone Unit 3 filed lawsuits against NU and its trustees, as well as a demand for arbitration against The Connecticut Light and Power Company and Western Massachusetts Electric Company, the operating electric utility subsidiaries of NU that are the majority joint owners of the unit and have contracted with the minority joint owners to operate it. The ten non-NU joint owners, who together own about 19.5% of the unit, claim that NU and its subsidiaries failed to comply with NRC regulations, failed to operate
- 22 -
Millstone Station in accordance with good utility operating practice and concealed their failures from the non-operating joint owners and the NRC. The arbitration and lawsuits seek to recover costs of purchasing replacement power and increased operation and maintenance costs resulting from the shutdown of Millstone Unit 3.
The Connecticut Yankee Unit commenced commercial operation in January of 1968, pursuant to a 40-year operating license issued by the NRC. It is owned, through ownership of Connecticut Yankee's common stock, by ten New England electric utilities, including the Company, and is operated by another service company subsidiary of NU. Prior to July 23, 1996, when the Connecticut Yankee Unit was taken out of service following an engineering evaluation that determined that safety-related air cooling system pipes could crack if the plant should lose its outside source of electric power, the Connecticut Yankee Unit had operated at a lifetime capacity factor of 75.6%. Prior to and following its removal from service in July of 1996, NRC inspections of the Connecticut Yankee Unit revealed issues that were similar to those previously identified at Millstone Station and identified a number of significant deficiencies in the engineering calculations and analyses that were relied upon to ensure the adequacy of the design of key safety systems at the unit. Pending a resolution of these issues, an economic study by the owners, comparing the costs of continuing to operate the Connecticut Yankee Unit over the remaining period of its operating license, which expires in 2007, to the costs of shutting down the unit permanently and incurring replacement power costs for the same period, resulted in a decision, on December 4, 1996, by the Board of Directors of Connecticut Yankee to retire the Connecticut Yankee Unit from commercial operation. The economic study did not consider the costs of addressing the issues and concerns raised by the NRC. If these costs had been considered, the economic study would have been more negative concerning the continued operation of the unit.
At December 31, 1997, UI's equity investment in Connecticut Yankee was approximately $10.5 million. The estimate of the sum of future payments for the closing, decommissioning and recovery of the remaining investment in the Connecticut Yankee Unit is approximately $606 million. The Company's estimate of its remaining share of costs, including decommissioning, less return of investment (approximately $10.5 million) and return on investment (approximately $6.3 million), is approximately $40.8 million. This estimate, which is subject to ongoing review and revision, has been recorded by the Company as a regulatory asset and an obligation on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The power purchase contract under which UI has purchased its 9.5% entitlement to the unit's power output will permit Connecticut Yankee to recover UI's share of these costs from UI. Connecticut Yankee has filed revised decommissioning cost estimates and amendments to the power contracts with its owners, including UI, with the FERC. Based on regulatory precedent, Connecticut Yankee believes it will continue to collect from its power purchasers its decommissioning costs, the owners' unrecovered investments in Connecticut Yankee and other costs associated with the permanent shutdown of the Connecticut Yankee Unit. UI expects that it will continue to be allowed to recover all FERC-approved costs from its customers through retail rates.
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS
Seabrook Unit 1, Millstone Unit 3 and the Connecticut Yankee Unit are each subject to the licensing requirements and jurisdiction of the NRC under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and to a variety of other state and federal requirements.
The NRC regularly conducts generic reviews of numerous technical issues, ranging from seismic design to education and fitness for duty requirements for licensed plant operators. The outcome of reviews that are currently pending, and the ways in which the nuclear generating units in which UI has interests may be affected by these reviews, cannot be determined; and the cost of complying with any new requirements that might result from the reviews cannot be estimated. However, such costs could be substantial.
Additional capital expenditures and increased operating costs for nuclear generating units may result from modifications of these facilities or their operating procedures required by the NRC, or from actions taken by other joint owners or companies having entitlements in the units. Some equipment modifications have required and may in the future require shutdowns or deratings of generating units that would not otherwise be necessary and that result in additional costs for replacement power. The amounts of additional capital expenditures, increased operating costs and replacement power costs cannot now be predicted, but they have been and may in the future be substantial.
- 23 -
Public controversy concerning nuclear power could also adversely affect Seabrook Unit 1 and Millstone Unit 3. Proposals to force the premature shutdown of nuclear plants in other New England states have in the past received serious attention, and the licensing of Seabrook Unit 1 was a regional issue. A renewal of the controversy could be expected to increase the costs of operating the nuclear generating units in which UI has interests; and it is possible that one or the other of the units could be shut down prematurely, resulting in increased fuel and/or replacement power costs, earlier funding of costs associated with decommissioning the unit and acceleration of depreciation expense, which could have an adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and/or results of operations.
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
The Price-Anderson Act, currently extended through August 1, 2002, limits public liability resulting from a single incident at a nuclear power plant. The first $200 million of liability coverage is provided by purchasing the maximum amount of commercially available insurance. Additional liability coverage will be provided by an assessment of up to $75.5 million per incident, levied on each of the nuclear units licensed to operate in the United States, subject to a maximum assessment of $10 million per incident per nuclear unit in any year. In addition, if the sum of all public liability claims and legal costs resulting from any nuclear incident exceeds the maximum amount of financial protection, each reactor operator can be assessed an additional 5% of $75.5 million, or $3.775 million. The maximum assessment is adjusted at least every five years to reflect the impact of inflation. With respect to each of the three nuclear generating units in which the Company has an interest, the Company will be obligated to pay its ownership and/or leasehold share of any statutory assessment resulting from a nuclear incident at any nuclear generating unit. Based on its interests in these nuclear generating units, the Company estimates its maximum liability would be $23.2 million per incident. However, any assessment would be limited to $3.1 million per incident per year.
The NRC requires each nuclear generating unit to obtain property insurance coverage in a minimum amount of $1.06 billion and to establish a system of prioritized use of the insurance proceeds in the event of a nuclear incident. The system requires that the first $1.06 billion of insurance proceeds be used to stabilize the nuclear reactor to prevent any significant risk to public health and safety and then for decontamination and cleanup operations. Only following completion of these tasks would the balance, if any, of the segregated insurance proceeds become available to the unit's owners. For each of the three nuclear generating units in which the Company has an interest, the Company is required to pay its ownership and/or leasehold share of the cost of purchasing such insurance. Although each of these units has purchased $2.75 billion of property insurance coverage, representing the limits of coverage currently available from conventional nuclear insurance pools, the cost of a nuclear incident could exceed available insurance proceeds. Under those circumstances, the nuclear insurance pools that provide this coverage may levy assessments against the insured owner companies if pool losses exceed the accumulated funds available to the pool. The maximum potential assessments against the Company with respect to losses occurring during current policy years are approximately $5.0 million.
WASTE DISPOSAL AND DECOMMISSIONING
Costs associated with nuclear plant operations include amounts for disposal of nuclear wastes, including spent fuel, and for the ultimate decommissioning of the plants. Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, the federal Department of Energy (DOE) is required to design, license, construct and operate a permanent repository for high level radioactive wastes and spent nuclear fuel. The Act requires the DOE to provide, beginning in 1998, for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high level radioactive waste from commercial nuclear plants through contracts with the owners and generators of such waste; and the DOE has established disposal fees that are being paid to the federal government by electric utilities owning or operating nuclear generating units. In return for payment of the prescribed fees, the federal government was required to take title to and dispose of the utilities' high level wastes and spent nuclear fuel beginning no later than January 1998. However, the DOE has announced that its first high level waste repository will not be in operation earlier than 2010 and possibly not earlier than 2013, notwithstanding the DOE's statutory and contractual responsibility to begin disposal of high-level radioactive waste and spent fuel beginning not later than January 31, 1998.
- 24 -
The DOE also announced that, absent a repository, the DOE had no statutory obligation to begin accepting high level wastes and spent nuclear fuel for disposal by January 31, 1998; and the DOE did not begin accepting such wastes and fuel by the date. Numerous utilities and state governments have obtained a judicial determination that the DOE had and has a statutory and contractual responsibility to take title to and dispose of high level wastes and spent nuclear fuel commencing not later than January 31, 1998, and that the contracts between the DOE and the plant owners and generators of such wastes and fuel will provide a potentially adequate remedy for the latter in the event of a breach of the contracts. The DOE is contesting these judicial declarations; and it is unclear at this time whether the United States Congress will enact legislation to address high level wastes/spent fuel disposal issues.
Until the federal government begins receiving such materials, nuclear generating units will need to retain high level wastes and spent nuclear fuel on-site or make other provisions for their storage. Storage facilities for the Connecticut Yankee Unit are deemed adequate, and storage facilities for Millstone Unit 3 are expected to be adequate for the projected life of the unit. Storage facilities for Seabrook Unit 1 are expected to be adequate until at least 2010. Fuel consolidation and compaction technologies are being considered for Seabrook Unit 1 and may provide adequate storage capability for the projected life of the unit. In addition, other licensed technologies, such as dry storage casks, may satisfy spent nuclear fuel storage requirements.
Disposal costs for low-level radioactive wastes (LLW) that result from operation or decommissioning of nuclear generating units have increased significantly in recent years and may continue to rise. The cost increases are a function of increased packaging and transportation costs, and higher fees and surcharges imposed by the disposal facilities. Currently, the Chem Nuclear LLW facility at Barnwell, South Carolina, is open to the Connecticut Yankee Unit, Millstone Unit 3, and Seabrook Unit 1 for disposal of LLW. The Envirocare LLW facility at Clive, Utah, is also open to these generating units for portions of their LLW. All three units have contracts in place for LLW disposal at these disposal facilities.
Because access to LLW disposal may be lost at any time, Millstone Unit 3 and Seabrook Unit 1 have storage plans that will allow on-site retention of LLW for at least five years in the event that disposal is interrupted. The Connecticut Yankee Unit, which has been retired from commercial operation, has a similar storage program, although disposal of its LLW will take place in connection with its decommissioning.
The Company cannot predict whether or when a LLW disposal site will be designated in Connecticut. The State of New Hampshire has not met deadlines for compliance with the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act and has stated that the state is unsuitable for a LLW disposal facility. Both Connecticut and New Hampshire are also pursuing other options for out-of-state disposal of LLW.
NRC licensing requirements and restrictions are also applicable to the decommissioning of nuclear generating units at the end of their service lives, and the NRC has adopted comprehensive regulations concerning decommissioning planning, timing, funding and environmental reviews. UI and the other owners of the nuclear generating units in which UI has interests estimate decommissioning costs for the units and attempt to recover sufficient amounts through their allowed electric rates, together with earnings on the investment of funds so recovered, to cover expected decommissioning costs. Changes in NRC requirements or technology, as well as inflation, can increase estimated decommissioning costs.
New Hampshire has enacted a law requiring the creation of a government-managed fund to finance the decommissioning of nuclear generating units in that state. The New Hampshire Nuclear Decommissioning Financing Committee (NDFC) has established $473 million (in 1998 dollars) as the decommissioning cost estimate for Seabrook Unit 1, of which the Company's share would be approximately $83 million. This estimate assumes the prompt removal and dismantling of the unit at the end of its estimated 36-year energy producing life. Monthly decommissioning payments are being made to the state-managed decommissioning trust fund. UI's share of the decommissioning payments made during 1997 was $1.9 million. UI's share of the fund at December 31, 1997 was approximately $12.4 million.
- 25 -
Connecticut has enacted a law requiring the operators of nuclear generating units to file periodically with the DPUC their plans for financing the decommissioning of the units in that state. The current decommissioning cost estimate for Millstone Unit 3 is $557 million (in 1998 dollars), of which the Company's share would be approximately $21 million. This estimate assumes the prompt removal and dismantling of the unit at the end of its estimated 40-year energy producing life. Monthly decommissioning payments, based on these cost estimates, are being made to a decommissioning trust fund managed by Northeast Utilities (NU). UI's share of the Millstone Unit 3 decommissioning payments made during 1997 was $487,000. UI's share of the fund at December 31, 1997 was approximately $5.1 million. The decommissioning trust fund for the Connecticut Yankee Unit is also managed by NU. For the Company's 9.5% equity ownership in Connecticut Yankee, decommissioning costs of $2.1 million were funded by UI during 1997, and UI's share of the fund at December 31, 1997 was $24.9 million. The current decommissioning cost estimate for the Connecticut Yankee Unit, assuming the prompt removal and dismantling of the unit commencing in 1997, is $456 million, of which UI's share would be $43 million.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has issued an exposure draft related to the accounting for the closure and removal costs of long-lived assets, including nuclear plant decommissioning. If the proposed accounting standard were adopted, it may result in higher annual provisions for decommissioning to be recognized earlier in the operating life of nuclear units and an accelerated recognition of the decommissioning obligation. The FASB will be deliberating this issue, and the resulting final pronouncement could be different from that proposed in the exposure draft.
Item 3.