ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
(A) HOTEL PROPERTIES
EXISTING PROPERTIES
On December 31, 1997, the Company owned the following 17 hotel properties:
- ---------------
(1) Reopened in January 1998 after eight month closure for a major renovation.
CLEVELAND MARRIOTT EAST. Located in Beachwood, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland, just off Interstate 271, this hotel adjoins commercial office development and is about 20 minutes from downtown Cleveland and 30 minutes from the Cleveland Hopkins International Airport. The majority of the guests are business travelers. Group travel accounts for about 20% of the hotel's business. The hotel is also adjacent to the planned 650-acre Chagrin Highlands research-office park development. The property was owned and managed by the Boykin Group as a Marriott since its opening in 1977 and is leased to BMC.
MARRIOTT'S HUNT VALLEY INN. This hotel is located in Hunt Valley, Maryland, 20 miles north of downtown Baltimore, in the southeast quadrant of the I-83/Shawan Road interchange, adjacent to the Hunt Valley Business Park. The majority of the Hotel's business is from business travelers. The hotel was originally opened in 1971, and was expanded in the early 1980's. The hotel is leased to Davidson and is owned by a joint venture owned 91% by the Company and 9% by Davidson.
CLEVELAND AIRPORT MARRIOTT. This hotel is located in Cleveland, Ohio, on Interstate 71 approximately eight miles from downtown Cleveland and two miles from Cleveland Hopkins International Airport. Approximately one half of the guests are business travelers. The property was developed and managed by the Boykin Group since its opening in 1970 and is leased to BMC. The hotel is currently undergoing an extensive renovation in connection with an extension of its franchise agreement with Marriott.
BUFFALO MARRIOTT. This hotel is the only full-service Marriott hotel in the greater Buffalo Metropolitan area. Located just off Interstate 290 in Amherst, the hotel is adjacent to the State University of New York at Buffalo and is approximately 15 minutes from downtown Buffalo, 30 minutes from Niagara Falls, and 10 minutes from the Greater Buffalo International Airport. The majority of the guests are business travelers. The property was owned and managed by the Boykin Group as a Marriott since opening in 1981 and is leased to BMC.
COLUMBUS NORTH MARRIOTT. Located in Columbus, Ohio, just off Interstate 71 and near Interstate 270, this hotel is the only full-service Marriott Hotel in Columbus, and is approximately 20 minutes from downtown Columbus, 20 minutes from Ohio State University and 20 minutes from the Port Columbus International Airport. About one half of the guests are business travelers. Group travel accounts for 40% of the hotel's business. The property was owned and managed by the Boykin Group as a Marriott since its opening in 1981 and is leased to BMC.
BERKELEY MARINA RADISSON. This waterfront hotel is on the east side of San Francisco Bay in the Berkeley Marina Complex. The hotel is in a secluded area approximately 20 minutes from downtown San Francisco and 30 minutes from San Francisco International Airport. The hotel is located near the Golden Gate Bridge, Fisherman's Wharf and the Napa/Sonoma wine country. The University of California at Berkeley is three miles away. The majority of the guests are business travelers. The property was owned and managed by the Boykin Group since its opening in 1972 and is leased to BMC. The property was expanded to its current size in 1985.
The land underlying this hotel is leased under a ground lease that expires in 2033 but can be extended by the tenant to 2051. The rent payable under the lease includes annual minimum rent of $100,000 and percentage rent based on the hotel's revenues. The tenant is responsible for all taxes, maintenance and insurance on the leased property.
DAYTONA BEACH RADISSON RESORT. This hotel, located in Daytona Beach, Florida, rests on approximately two acres of land directly on the Atlantic ocean, and consists of an 11-story building with 206 guest rooms and food and beverage facilities. The hotel was built in 1974 and contains an attached two-story addition constructed in 1988 containing meeting facilities. The hotel underwent a complete, $7 million renovation prior to its reopening in January of 1998. The property is leased to BMC.
RADISSON INN SANIBEL GATEWAY. This hotel, located in Fort Myers, Florida, is 15 miles from I-75 and seven miles off U.S. Highway 41. The hotel is two and one-half miles from Sanibel Island and four and one-half miles from Ft. Myers Beach. It is 25 minutes from the New Southwest Florida Airport and 15 minutes from the Boston Red Sox and Minnesota Twins spring training complexes. The majority of the guests are tourists and vacationers. The property was owned and managed by the Boykin Group since its opening in 1986 and is leased to BMC.
HOLIDAY INN MINNEAPOLIS WEST. This hotel was built in 1986 and is located eight miles west of downtown Minneapolis on Shelard Parkway and Wayzata Boulevard at the Betty Crocker exit of Interstate 394. Minneapolis International Airport and the Mall of America are approximately 18 miles from the hotel. Business travelers represent most of the hotel's business. The hotel is leased to Capstar and is owned by a joint venture owned 91% by the Company and 9% by Capstar.
HOLIDAY INN CRABTREE. This hotel is located in Raleigh, North Carolina and is opposite the Crabtree Mall, the largest mall in the Carolinas. This property enjoys a premier highway location in the active North Raleigh market. Business travelers represent most of the hotel's business. The hotel was opened in 1974 and is currently undergoing an extensive renovation. The hotel is leased to BMC.
LAKE NORMAN HOLIDAY INN. This hotel, built in 1987, is located in Lake Norman, North Carolina, at the northeast corner of the intersection of Interstate 77 North, Exit 28 and North Carolina Highway 73. See "Lake Norman Hampton Inn" for a description of this hotel's location. The hotel is leased to BMC.
HAMPTON INN SAN DIEGO AIRPORT/SEA WORLD. This recently renovated hotel is located two miles northwest of the San Diego International Airport, two miles southeast of Sea World and two blocks east of the San Diego Sports Arena. The hotel, built in 1989, is also situated within five miles of downtown, the San Diego Convention Center, the Zoo, and beaches. Approximately one-half of the guests are business travelers. The hotel is leased to Outrigger and is owned by a joint venture in which the Company and Outrigger are 91% and 9% partners, respectively.
LAKE NORMAN HAMPTON INN. This hotel, which was built in 1991, is located in Lake Norman, North Carolina, at the southeast corner of the intersection of Interstate 77 North, Exit 28 and North Carolina Highway
73. Charlotte, North Carolina is 19 miles to the south. Lake Norman is an upscale community located approximately five miles south of downtown Mooresville, North Carolina, and just southeast of Lake Norman, one of North Carolina's most widely used recreational lakes, offering boating, swimming, and nearby golf facilities. Most of the area's hotel market is represented by the commercial segment. The hotel is leased to BMC.
DOUBLETREE HOTEL KANSAS CITY. This hotel is located directly across from the recently expanded convention center in downtown Kansas City, Missouri. The hotel was built in 1969 and closed in 1996 for a complete renovation prior to being reopened in April 1997 as an Omni hotel. In November, 1997 the hotel was reflagged to the Doubletree brand name. The property is leased to and managed by Capstar , and the Company and a Capstar affiliate own an 80% and a 20% interest, respectively, in a joint venture that owns the hotel. The majority of the hotel's guests are business travelers.
The hotel renovation was funded, in part, with $15.1 million of proceeds from tax increment financing bonds issued by the Redevelopment Authority of Kansas City, Missouri (the "Authority"). Debt service on the bonds is to be funded entirely by sales taxes, payroll taxes, real estate taxes, hotel taxes and other taxes generated by the hotel. Capstar is obligated to fund the debt service, however, in the event the specified taxes generated by the hotel are insufficient to satisfy the debt service requirements of the bonds, the joint venture would be obligated to the fund such shortfall. In the opinion of the Company's management, it is unlikely that the joint venture will be required to fund the debt service.
MELBOURNE QUALITY SUITES. This oceanfront hotel is located in Indialantic, Florida, on the beach off Florida's coastal highway A1A, around 20 miles south of Kennedy Space Center and 65 miles southeast of Disney World. The hotel is approximately 10 miles from Melbourne International Airport. Most of the guests are tourist or vacation travelers attracted by popular destinations such as Disney World, Universal Studios and Sea World. This property was owned and managed by the Boykin Group as a Quality Suites hotel since its opening in 1986 and is leased to BMC.
MELBOURNE HILTON OCEANFRONT. This hotel is located directly on the beach in Melbourne, Florida and is located approximately one mile from the Melbourne Quality Suites. The acquisition of this hotel has allowed the Company to benefit from cross-selling and labor efficiencies. The hotel was constructed in 1986 and underwent an extensive $3.6 million renovation in 1996. See "Melbourne Quality Suites" for a description of the hotel's location. The hotel is leased to BMC.
FRENCH LICK SPRINGS RESORT. The French Lick Springs Resort, in French Lick, Indiana, is a full-service destination resort containing 485 guest rooms, five restaurants and lounges, meeting rooms containing an aggregate of 60,000 square feet of meeting space, two golf courses, 18 tennis courts, an equestrian center and riding stables, a health and beauty spa and a bowling alley. The hotel was built in stages, starting in 1903. The majority of the hotel's business consists of leisure travelers. The hotel is leased to BMC.
SUBSEQUENT ACQUISITIONS
On March 12, 1998, the Company acquired the following two hotel properties:
THE HIGH POINT RADISSON. This property is located in downtown High Point along the city's main commercial corridor. High Point is located within the Greensboro/Winston-Salem/High Point Metropolitan Statistical Area. This region is also commonly referred to as the Piedmont Triad, the most populated area in North Carolina. The majority of the hotel's business is from business travelers. The hotel opened in 1983 and is leased to BMC.
THE KNOXVILLE HILTON. This hotel is located within the heart of the city's business and shopping district and is adjacent to the Knoxville Convention Center. The University of Tennessee is located two blocks to the southwest of the Hilton. The World's Fair Park, which includes the Tennessee Amphitheater and Knoxville
Museum of Art, is located one block to the west. The majority of the hotel's guests are business travelers. The hotel opened in 1981 and is leased to BMC.
PROPOSED MERGER
The Company entered into the Merger Agreement on December 30, 1997 with Red Lion and certain related parties, under which the Company agreed to acquire the Doubletree Hotels. Under the Merger Agreement, the Company will issue 3,110,048 million Common Shares and pay approximately $35.3 million in cash to the Red Lion limited partners and general partner, and two wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company will become the sole partners in Red Lion and then contribute their Red Lion interests to the Partnership. In connection with the Proposed Merger, the Partnership will become responsible for Red Lion's liabilities, which the Company estimates will be approximately $156 million at the time of closing. At the time of the announcement of the Merger Agreement, the consideration value was expected to total approximately $271 million. The Company plans to finance its cash requirements in connection with the Proposed Merger as described under "Item 1 (c) -- Access to Capital." The Proposed Merger will constitute a taxable transaction for the Red Lion partners and will be accounted for as a purchase by the Company.
The Doubletree Hotels, which formerly operated as "Red Lion Hotels" or "Red Lion Inns," were reflagged to operate as Doubletree Hotels in June 1997 and are located in growing commercial markets primarily in the western and northwestern United States. The Doubletree Hotels are situated on major traffic arteries that are near airports, commercial centers and tourist sites. Each hotel offers full-service accommodations, including meeting space, lounges and banquet facilities, and most have at least two restaurants. The hotels typically offer valet service, swimming pools, health and fitness centers, concierge services, business centers and complimentary airport shuttle services.
The following table sets forth certain additional information with respect to the Doubletree Hotels.
In connection with the Proposed Merger and to avoid certain adverse tax consequences that it would have otherwise incurred, Red Lion leased all of the Doubletree Hotels to Westboy under the Doubletree Percentage Lease, effective as of January 1, 1998. Also in connection with the Proposed Merger, Westboy hired the Doubletree Manager to manage the Doubletree Hotels pursuant to the Doubletree Management Agreement. If the Proposed Merger is consummated, the Doubletree Hotels will continue to be leased to Westboy and managed by the Doubletree Manager.
The Doubletree Management Agreement provides for a base management fee of 3% of hotel revenues and an incentive management fee of 15% of the first $36 million of "profits" (as defined) and 25% of "profits" in excess of $36 million. The Doubletree Manager has agreed not to charge its customary franchise fee in addition to these base and incentive fees. In certain cases, the incentive fee may be deferred or forgiven, depending on the Doubletree Hotels' cash flow. The financial performance of the Doubletree Hotels will be significantly dependent upon management by the Doubletree Manager for most or all of the useful life of the Doubletree Hotels. Although the Doubletree Management Agreement contains no measurable performance criteria which the
Doubletree Manager is required to meet, and the Doubletree Manager may extend the agreement for an aggregate term of up to 64 years, the Company believes Westboy's asset management skills and the financial incentives to the Doubletree Manager support the addition of the Doubletree Hotels to the Company's hotel portfolio.
The Company and Red Lion expect to complete the Proposed Merger early in the second quarter of 1998. Consummation of the Proposed Merger is subject to various conditions, and there is no assurance that it will be completed. Moreover, if the Proposed Merger is completed, there is no assurance that the Company will be able successfully to assimilate the Doubletree Hotels or to realize the anticipated benefits of the Proposed Merger.
THE PERCENTAGE LEASES
The Percentage Leases have the terms described below. The Company expects that leases with respect to its future hotel property investments will have substantially similar terms, although the Board of Directors may alter any of these terms. The following summary of the material terms of the Percentage Leases is qualified in its entirety by reference to the form of Percentage Lease, which was filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-11 (Registration Statement No. 333-6341, filed on June 19, 1996, as amended).
Duration. The Percentage Leases have noncancelable remaining terms ranging from three to ten years, subject to earlier termination on the occurrence of certain contingencies described in the Percentage Leases. Except for the Percentage Leases with Davidson and CapStar and the Doubletree Percentage Lease, the Percentage Leases do not contain renewal terms. The right to extend the term of the respective Percentage Leases with Davidson, CapStar and Doubletree is subject to agreement between the parties regarding market terms.
Amounts Payable Under the Percentage Leases. The lessees are obligated to pay (i) the higher of Minimum Rent or Percentage Rent (except for the French Lick Springs Resort, for which both Minimum Rent and Percentage Rent are required to be paid); and (ii) certain other amounts, including interest accrued on any late payment or charge (the "Additional Charges"). Minimum Rent is a fixed amount determined by negotiation between the Company and the applicable lessee (except in certain cases, as defined in the applicable Percentage Lease agreements). Percentage Rent is calculated by multiplying fixed percentages by gross room and other revenue and gross food and beverage revenue, over specified threshold amounts. Minimum Rent is payable monthly in advance, and Percentage Rent is payable for each quarter within 30 days after the end of the quarter. Both the threshold gross room and other revenue amounts used in computing Percentage Rent and Minimum Rent are adjusted annually for changes in the Consumer Price Index.
Each Percentage Lease requires the lessee to pay rent, all costs and expenses, and all utility and other charges incurred in the operation of the hotel. All capital expenditures (as defined in the lease) are the responsibility of the Company. Each Percentage Lease also provides for rent reductions and abatements in the event of damage or destruction or a partial taking of the hotel. The lessee is required to carry insurance to cover rental interruption for a period at least one year.
Maintenance and Modifications. The lessee is required to maintain the hotel in good order and repair and to make the nonstructural repairs necessary therefor. The Company funds capital expenditures and the repair, replacement and refurbishment of FF&E in the hotel, when and as considered necessary by the Company and as required by the franchises, and maintains a capital expenditures reserve to help provide funds to cover such expenses. The Company reserves annually an amount equal to specified percentages of the gross revenues generated from its hotels. See "Item 1. (c) -- Business Strategies -- Capital Expenditure and Renovation Strategy."
For as long as BMC maintains its interior design and purchase operations, it will perform interior design and purchasing services for the hotels leased to BMC at a discount from its normal rates.
Insurance and Property Taxes. The Company pays, or causes the lessee to pay, real estate and personal property taxes and maintains, or causes the lessee to maintain, property insurance, including casualty insurance, on its hotels. The lessee maintains comprehensive general public liability, workers' compensation, 12-month rental interruption and any other insurance customary for properties similar to the hotel or required by any
relevant franchisor and must have the Company named as an additional insured. The Company believes that the insurance coverage carried by each hotel is adequate in scope and amount.
Indemnification. Under each Percentage Lease, the lessee indemnifies the Company against all liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements) incurred by, imposed on or asserted against the Partnership, on account of, among other things, (i) any accident or injury to person or property on or about the hotel; (ii) any negligence by the lessee or any of its agents as to the leased property; (iii) in the case of the Initial Hotels, any environmental liability resulting from conditions existing at the time of completion of the Offering or caused or resulting thereafter from any action, inaction or negligence of BMC; (iv) taxes and assessments in respect of the hotel (other than real estate taxes and income taxes of the Company on income attributable to the hotel); (v) the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages on or in the real property or improvements thereon; or (vi) any breach of the lease by the lessee. The lessee is not required, however, to indemnify the Company against the Company's negligence or willful misconduct.
Assignment and Subleasing. The lessee is not permitted to sublet all or any part of the hotel or to assign its interest under the lease without the prior written consent of the Company. The lessee may, however, enter into a management agreement with a third party for the management and operation of the hotel, with the consent of the Company, which the Company may withhold in its sole and absolute discretion. The lease may not be directly or indirectly sold by selling direct (or, in most cases, indirect) ownership or control of the lessee without causing a default under the lease.
Events of Default. Events of default under each Percentage Lease include, among others, the failure by the lessee to pay Minimum Rent when due and the continuation of that failure for a period of 10 days, the failure by the lessee to pay the Percentage Rent for any quarter within 10 days after the end of that quarter, the failure by the lessee to observe or perform any other term of the lease and the continuation of that failure beyond any applicable cure period, an event of default under any other Percentage Lease to which the lessee is a party, termination of the franchise agreement covering any hotel leased to the lessee, and with respect to BMC, any failure to comply with BMC's covenants regarding distributions and maintenance of its net worth, as described under "Item 1. (c) -- Lessees -- BMC," and any failure by Robert and John Boykin and their heirs to own, collectively, at least 51% of BMC or otherwise control BMC.
If an event of default under any lease with BMC occurs and continues beyond any curative period, the Company may terminate the lease and any or all of the other Percentage Leases with BMC, and BMC will be required to surrender possession of the affected hotels. If an event of default under any lease with any other Company lessee occurs and continues beyond any curative period, the Company may terminate the lease and the lessee will be required to surrender possession of the affected hotel.
Franchise Agreements. The lessee, or in certain cases a third party management company, will be the franchisee under the franchise agreements for the hotels leased to the lessee.
Doubletree Percentage Lease. Westboy has entered into a Percentage Lease for the Doubletree Hotels. If the Proposed Merger does not occur, Red Lion has the right to cause Westboy to assign the lease and Westboy has the right, if the Red Lion Partnership does not exercise that right, to terminate the lease. The assignment or the termination, as applicable, would be effective on December 31, 1998. A copy of the Doubletree Percentage Lease was filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K filed on January 9, 1998. The terms of the Doubletree Percentage Lease are substantially the same as the other Percentage Leases described above, except that (i) its duration is subject to different terms, (ii) it requires that 3% of gross revenues be spent on capital improvements at the direction of the lessee or of any manager engaged by the lessee, that 1% of gross revenues be spent on capital improvements at the discretion of the lessor (subject to certain limited exceptions), and that the Company spend an additional $10 million on capital improvements at the Doubletree Hotels by June 30, 2000, and (iii) it limits the amount of mortgage debt that may be placed on the Doubletree Hotels.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
The Company's lessees are the franchisees under the respective franchise agreements for the Hotels. Five of the 17 Hotels are licensed by Marriott International, Inc. Of the 12 remaining Hotels, one is licensed by Doubletree Corporation, two by Promus Hotels, Inc. (licensor of Hampton Inn hotels), one by Choice Hotels International, Inc. (licensor of Quality Suites hotels), three by Radisson Hotels International, Inc. (Radisson), three by Holiday Inns Franchising, Inc. and one by Hilton Inns, Inc. (Hilton). The French Lick Springs Resort has no franchise affiliation. The 1998 Hotels are licensed by Radisson and Hilton.
The Company anticipates that most of the additional hotel properties in which it invests will be operated under franchise agreements. The Company believes that the public's perception of quality associated with a franchisor can be an important feature in the operation of a hotel. Franchisors provide a variety of benefits for franchisees, including national advertising, publicity, and other marketing programs designed to increase brand awareness, training of personnel, continuous review of quality standards, and centralized reservation systems. The franchise agreements generally impose certain management, operational, recordkeeping, accounting, reporting and marketing standards and procedures with which the franchised operator must comply.
- Termination. Each franchise agreement gives the operator the right to operate the franchised hotel under a franchise for a period of years specified in that agreement. The operator is responsible for making all payments to the franchisor under the franchise agreements. The expiration dates for the Hotels' and the 1998 Hotels' franchise agreements range from October 7, 2001 to December 31, 2018. The franchise agreements provide for early termination at the franchisor's option on the occurrence of certain events of default.
- Sale of Hotel. The franchise agreements with Marriott and Hilton contain a provision requiring the franchisee, on receiving a bona fide offer to buy or lease the franchised hotel, to give the franchisor the option to buy or lease (as applicable) that hotel on the same terms as are contained in that offer. The Choice Hotel franchise agreement provides that the agreement automatically terminates on transfer of the franchised hotel unless the franchisor expressly consents to that transfer. The Hampton Inn license agreements provide that a transferee of the licensee must apply for a new franchise and that transfers not specifically authorized under the license agreement are void and are also a breach of the license agreement. The Holiday Inn license agreements provide that a transferee of the hotel must apply for a new license unless the franchisor has given its prior written consent to the transfer of the hotel.
- Noncompetition. The franchise agreements for the Company's five Marriott hotels prohibit the franchisee from being connected or associated in any manner with any hotel, motel or inn business within a five-mile radius around the franchised hotel. These restrictions can be waived by Marriott, whose waiver may not be unreasonably withheld. If a franchise agreement is terminated because of a default by the lessee, the lessee may not, for 24 months after termination, operate any motel, hotel or inn business (other than those in which it is then engaged) that is in the five-mile radius trade area.
- Fees. Under the franchise agreements, the lessees pay franchise fees ranging from 3% to 6% of gross room sales and advertising or marketing and reservation fees ranging from 0.8% to 4% of gross room sales.
(B) OFFICE SPACE
Pursuant to a Shared Services and Office Space Agreement, the Company paid BMC $2,000 per month in 1997 for the right to use certain office space and receive certain related services.
ITEM 3.