Item 2 - Properties
Oil and Natural Gas
The following table sets forth our net proved reserves as of the dates indicated. Our reserve estimates as of December 31, 2009 and 2010 are based on reserve reports prepared by Ryder Scott Company, L.P. (“Ryder Scott”), and Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“CGA”). Our reserve estimates as of December 31, 2008 are based on a reserve report prepared by Ryder Scott Company, L.P. Ryder Scott and CGA are nationally recognized independent petroleum engineering firms. Ryder Scott is a Texas Registered Engineering Firm (F-1580). Our primary contact at Ryder Scott is Mr. James F. Latham, Senior Vice President. Mr. Latham is a State of Texas Licensed Professional Engineer (License #49586). CGA is a Texas Registered Engineering Firm (F-693). Our primary contact at CGA is Mr. W. Todd Brooker, Vice President. Mr. Brooker is a State of Texas Licensed Professional Engineer (License # 83462). Ryder Scott prepared the estimates related to our Gulf Coast Basin, including Louisiana and Texas properties and CGA prepared the estimates for our North Dakota properties. The reserve estimates were based upon the review by the relevant engineering firm(s) of production histories and other geological, economic, ownership and engineering data, as provided by us and by the operators. Copies of these reports are filed as exhibits to this Annual Report.
We do not have in-house geophysical or reserve engineering expertise. We therefore primarily rely on the operators of our producing wells who provide production data to our contract reserve engineers.
Summary of Oil and Gas Reserves as of Fiscal Year End (1)
As of December 31, 2010, our proved reserves totaled 1,954,941 BOE (89% developed and 11% undeveloped), comprised of 1,546,446 Bbls of oil (79% of the total), 2,135,776 Mcf of natural gas and 52,532 Bbls of natural gas liquid. See the "Glossary of Oil and Gas Terms" for an explanation of these and other terms. You should not place undue reliance on estimates of proved reserves. See "Risk Factors - Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or the relevant underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantity and present value of our reserves”.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Proved undeveloped reserves of 183,713 barrels of oil and 139,286 Mcf of natural gas were added in 2010 in connection with drilling completed by our partners. We had no proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2009 and accordingly, there were no conversions of proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed producing wells in 2010.
Oil and Gas Production, Production Prices, and Production Costs
The following table sets forth certain information regarding our net production volumes, average sales prices realized and certain expenses associated with sales of oil and natural gas for the periods indicated. We urge you to read this information in conjunction with the information contained in our financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report. The information set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future results.
Drilling and Other Exploratory and Development Activities
The following table sets forth information with respect to development and exploration wells we completed from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2010. The number of gross wells is the total number of wells we participated in, regardless of our ownership interest in the wells.
The information above should not be considered indicative of future drilling performance, nor should it be assumed that there is any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and the amount of oil and natural gas that may ultimately be recovered. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - General Overview.”
Oil and Natural Gas Properties, Wells, Operations and Acreage
The following table details our working interests in producing wells as of December 31, 2010. A well with multiple completions in the same bore hole is considered one well. Wells are classified as oil or natural gas wells according to the predominant production stream, except that a well with multiple completions is considered an oil well if one or more is an oil completion.
The following map reflects where our oil and gas wells are generally located in the Williston Basin of North Dakota:
Acreage
The following table summarizes our estimated developed and undeveloped leasehold acreage as of December 31, 2010.
Present Activities
As of March 1, 2011, we were drilling 1 gross (0.30 net) wells in the Williston Basin, and 5 gross (1.51 net) wells in the Williston Basin were drilled and waiting on completion.
Molybdenum - Mount Emmons Project
We re-acquired the Mount Emmons (formerly known as the Lucky Jack molybdenum property) located near Crested Butte, Colorado on February 28, 2006. The property was returned to us by Phelps Dodge Corporation (“PD”) in accordance with a 1987 Amended Royalty Deed and Agreement between us and Amax Inc. (“Amax”). The Mount Emmons Project includes a total of 25 patented and approximately 1,219 unpatented mining and mill site claims, which together approximate 9,311 acres, or over 13 square miles of claims.
We own both surface and mineral rights at the Mount Emmons Project in fee pursuant to mineral patents issued by the United States of America. All fee property requires the payment of property taxes to Gunnison County. Unpatented mining and mill site claims require the payment of an annual maintenance fee of $140 per claim to the Bureau of Land Management; the total amount paid for claim maintenance fees in 2010 was $171,000, which was paid by TCM.
The breakdown of the property is as follows:
The Mount Emmons Project is located in Gunnison County, Colorado. The property is accessed by vehicle traffic on Gunnison County Road 12.
Thompson Creek Metals Company (USA) has an option to acquire up to a 75% interest in the Project. See Part I above.
We had leased various patented and unpatented mining claims on the Mount Emmons molybdenum property to Amax in 1974. In the late 1970s, Amax delineated a large deposit of molybdenum on the properties, reportedly containing approximately 155 million tons of mineralized material averaging 0.44% molybdenum disulfide (MoS2). In 1981, Amax constructed a water treatment plant at the Mount Emmons molybdenum property to treat water flowing from the old Keystone mine workings and for potential use in milling operations. By 1983, Amax had reportedly spent an estimated $150 million in the acquisition of the property, securing water rights, extensive exploration, ore body delineation, mine planning, metallurgical testing and other activities involving the mineral deposit. Amax was merged into Cyprus Minerals in 1992 to form Cyprus Amax. PD then acquired Mount Emmons in 1999 through its acquisition of Cyprus Amax. Thereafter, PD acquired additional conditional water rights and patents to certain mineral claims.
The exploration work conducted in the late 1970’s by Amax, Inc. as discussed in Cyprus Amax’s Patent Claim Application to the Bureau of Land Management dated December 23, 1992, defined the initial mineralized material at the Mount Emmons Project as follows: “Molybdenite is present in randomly distributed veinlets (i.e. stockwork veining) and in some larger veins that are up to two feet wide. This mineralized zone is found in metamorphosed sedimentary rocks and in Tertiary igneous complex which acted as the source of the mineralization.”
There also are a number of existing mine adits located on the property. Historic work completed by Amax, Inc. in the 1970s and early 1980s included: 2,400 feet of new drift with 18 underground diamond drill stations to facilitate underground drilling (consisting of 168 diamond drill holes for a total of 157,037 feet of core drilling). The majority of the drilling was concentrated within 3,000 feet north and south; 3,000 feet east and west and 2,000 vertical feet defining the area of mineralized material. A bulk sample
was collected from this area and sent off site for metallurgical testing. Amax, Inc. also facilitated the completion of an Environmental Impact Statement (“EIS”) as required by NEPA for the Plan of Operations submitted to the United States Forest Service (“USFS”). The Amax, Inc. EIS is now outdated.
In its 1992 patent application, Cyprus Amax stated that the size and grade of the Mount Emmons deposit was determined to approximate 220 million tons of mineralized material grading 0.366% molybdenite. In a letter dated April 2, 2004, the BLM estimated that there were about 23 million tons of mineralized material containing 0.689% molybdenite, and that about 267 million pounds of molybdenum trioxide was recoverable. This letter covered only the high-grade mineralization which is only a portion of the total mineral deposit delineated to date. The BLM relied on a mineral report prepared by Western Mine Engineering (“WME”) for the U.S. Forest Service, which directed and administered the WME contract. WME’s analysis was based upon a price of $4.61 per pound for molybdic oxide and was used by the BLM in determining that nine claims satisfied the patenting requirement that the mining claims contain a valuable mineral that could be mined profitably. WME consulted a variety of sources in preparation of its report, including a study prepared in 1990 by American Mine Services, Inc. and a pre-feasibility report later prepared by Behre Dolbear & Company, Inc. in 1998.
Even with the historical data available, the size, configuration and operations of the mine plan that may be proposed by TCM have not been finalized. These factors, as well as the prevailing prices for molybdic oxide when the mine is active, will determine the economic viability of the project. We note that the statements made by the predecessor owners of the Mount Emmons Project regarding “recoverable” minerals and “mineable “reserves” were based on costs, permitting requirements, and commodity prices then prevailing. The $4.61 price used by WME should not be considered to be a current breakeven price for Mount Emmons. It is anticipated that a full feasibility study will be prepared in the future, using current and expected capital costs, and operating expenses, to estimate the viability of the project. It will be possible to classify some, or none, of the mineralized resources as “reserves” or “recoverable” only after a full feasibility study, based on a specific mine plan, has been completed.
In December 2008, an additional 160 acres of fee land in the vicinity of the claims was purchased for $4 million ($2 million in January 2009, $400,000 annually for five years). We share with TCM the purchase cost of this land on a 50-50 basis.
Geology
The sedimentary sequence in the Mount Emmons area spans from late Cretaceous to early Tertiary time. The oldest formation is the Mancos, a 4,000 foot sequence of shales with some interbedding limestone and siltstones. The Mancos Formation is not exposed on Mount Emmons, but may be seen in valley bottoms a few miles to the north, south, and east. All of the Mancos Formation encountered in the vicinity of the Mount Emmons mineralization has been strongly metamorphosed and attempts to correlate internal divisions of the unit have not been made. The overlying Mesaverde Formation, also of the late Cretaceous age, consists of a massive repetitive sequence of alternating sandstones, siltstones, shales and minor coals. Coal seams were not observed in any of the diamond drill holes, or in any of the underground drifts. On Mount Emmons the Mesaverde Formation varies from 1,100 to 1,700 feet thick. The variability in thickness of the Mesaverde Formation is mainly due to post-depositional erosion. The Ohio Creek Formation, dominantly a coarse sandstone with local chert pebble conglomerate and well-defined shale to siltstone beds, overlies the Mesaverde Formation. The Ohio Creek Formation is of early Tertiary (Paleocene) age and remains fairly consistent at 400 feet thick on Mount Emmons. Capping Mount Emmons is the Wasatch Formation, also of early Tertiary (Paleocene to Eocene) age.
On a more regional scale, within the Ruby Range the Wasatch Formation may reach 1,700 feet in thickness. However, on Mount Emmons specifically, all but the basal 600 to 700 feet has been eroded. The Wasatch Formation is composed of alternating sequences of immature shales, siltstones, arkosic sandstones, and volcanic pebble conglomerates. The Mount Emmons stock has intruded the Mancos and Mesaverde sediments, strongly metamorphosing both formations to hornfels up to 1500 feet outward from the igneous body.
Sedimentary rocks on Mount Emmons generally dip 15 - 20 degrees to the southeast, south, and southwest as is consistent with the locations of the Oh-Be-Joyful anticline and Coal Creek syncline.
During crystallization of the Red Lady Complex, hydrothermal fluids collected near the top of the magma column. These fluids were released after a period of intense fracturing in the solid upper portions of the Red Lady Complex and the surrounding country rock. This release of fluids was responsible for the formation of the major part of the Mount Emmons molybdenum mineralized zone and the associated alteration zones. Hydrothermal alteration associated with the Mount Emmons stock occurs in several distinct overlapping zones. Altered rocks include sedimentary rocks of the Mancos, Mesaverde, Ohio Creek and Wasatch Formations, the rhyodacite porphyry sills, and rocks of the Mount Emmons stock.
Water Treatment Plant; Site Facilities
PD’s 2006 re-conveyance of the property to U.S. Energy also included the transfer of ownership and operational responsibility of the mine water treatment plant located on the property. The water treatment permit issued under the Colorado Discharge Permit System was assigned to us by the Colorado Department of Health and Environment. We are responsible for all operating and maintenance costs until such time as Thompson Creek Metals elects to acquire a 15% interest in the property. Thereafter, costs will be shared according to our and Thompson Creek’s participation interests. We also are evaluating using the plant in milling operations.
The water treatment plant was constructed by Amax, Inc. in 1981 (at a cost of approximately $15 million) to treat mine discharge water from the historic lead and zinc Keystone Mine. A certified water treatment plant operations contractor with four licensed and/or trained employees operate the water treatment plant on a continuous basis, treating water discharged from the historic lead and zinc Keystone Mine. The plant utilizes a standard lime pH adjustment to precipitate heavy metals from the water. Mine water is then filtered and discharged in compliance with the approved NPDES Permit for the plant, and solids are dewatered and mixed with cement for proper disposal in accordance with state and federal law.
Additional equipment used in the operation of the water treatment plant includes a large front-end loaders, forklifts, specialized snow removal equipment and pickup trucks. The Mount Emmons Project currently has a 24-hour, seven days a week security contract service to protect the property.
Several capital upgrades to onsite facilities have been made since 2006. Current facilities include a core and office building, five ancillary pump houses and underground pipelines and utilities, which move water from five water storage ponds to the water treatment plant. Surface access is maintained to the four underground adits and the ancillary pump houses.
Historical Capital Expenditures by Prior Owners, and Related Information
Amax, Inc. reportedly spent approximately $150 million in exploration and related activities on the Mount Emmons Project, which included construction of the water treatment plant. During 2007, Kobex Resources, the predecessor of TCM, spent approximately $10.5 million on the property. From August 2008 to December 31, 2010, TCM has spent approximately $12.2 million on the property. Our annual
operating cost for the water treatment plant is approximately $1.8 million. The total costs associated with future drilling and the development of the Project has not yet been determined by TCM.
We are using grid electric power to operate the water treatment plant and other facilities from the local electric utility serving Gunnison County. We have been granted conditional water rights from the State of Colorado for operation and development of the Project. TCM is reviewing and evaluating potential future power and water needs, however no definitive development project plans have been finalized or approved at this time.
Additional drilling will need to be conducted to further delineate the depth, grades and volume of mineralized materials before we can determine if there are reserves present in the project (presently in the advanced exploration stage). The time table for completing drilling, and the permitting and construction of the mine and milling facilities, is dependent upon several factors, including local, State and Federal regulations and availability of capital, which is driven by the market price for molybdenum.
Activities in 2010 and Plans for 2011
TCM, the Project Manager, submitted a baseline Plan of Operations on March 30, 2010, to the US Forest Service and has been responding to questions from the USFS as they review the baseline Plan of Operations (“PoO”). The NEPA process that the USFS will follow for review of the baseline PoO is an EA. We expect that the baseline Plan of Operations will facilitate the base line data collection needed for additional permitting efforts.
At the date of this filing, TCM is reviewing and developing a detailed plan to conduct prospecting activities underground in the existing 2000 drift drill stations. This plan is expected to be completed and approved later in 2011.
Information About Molybdenum Markets
The metallurgical market for molybdenum is characterized by cyclical and volatile prices, little product differentiation and strong competition. In the market, prices are influenced by production costs of domestic and foreign competitors, worldwide economic conditions, world supply/demand balances, inventory levels, the U.S. Dollar exchange rate and other factors. Molybdenum prices also are affected by the demand for end-use products in, for example, the construction, transportation and durable goods markets. A substantial portion the of world’s molybdenum supply is produced as a by-product of copper mining. Today, by-product production is estimated to account for approximately 60% of global molybdenum production.
Annual Metal Week Dealer Oxide mean prices averaged $16.00 in 2010, compared to $11.29 in 2009. The increase in the average annual price for molybdenum is a result of the global economic recovery from the Great Recession which led to dramatic reductions in steel output and pricing, and correspondingly in market demand for molybdenum and it’s pricing.
Real Estate
Remington Village - Gillette, Wyoming.
We have built and own a nine building multifamily apartment complex, with 216 units on 10.15 acres located in Gillette, Wyoming. The apartments are a mix of one, two, and three bedroom units, with a clubhouse and family amenities for the complex. This project is held by our wholly-owned subsidiary Remington Village, LLC.
Occupancy averaged 89.6% in 2010. For the year, we realized average monthly revenues of approximately $198,000. The occupancy rate at December 31, 2008 was 88%, 80% at December 31, 2009 and 89% at December 31, 2010. The decrease in occupancy rate from 2008 to 2009 was due to the national economic downturn and reduced activities in the oil and gas sector in Wyoming. The apartment complex, along with our corporate aircraft, is pledged as collateral for a $10 million commercial line of credit with a financial institution.
The Company had an appraisal completed as of December 31, 2010 which valued the property at $21.0 million. An impairment of $1.5 million was therefore recorded at December 31, 2010 on the property. Although the property produces positive cash flow from its operations, the return from oil and gas investments is expected to yield a higher return. In 2011 the Company plans on financing and then selling this property to continue growing its oil and gas business.
Fremont County, Wyoming
U.S. Energy owns a 14-acre tract in Riverton, Wyoming, with a two-story 30,400 square foot office building. The first floor is rented to non-affiliates and government agencies; the second floor is occupied by the Company. In addition, own three city lots covering 13.84 acres adjacent to USE’s corporate office building. When the real estate market recovers we intend to sell this property without development. The timing of sale is not known. We also own a 10,000 square foot aircraft hangar on land leased from the City of Riverton with 7,000 square feet of associated offices and facilities and two vacant lots covering 13.2 acres in Fremont County, Wyoming.
Sold Uranium Properties - Possible Future Revenues
In 2007, we sold all of our uranium assets for cash and stock of the purchaser. Included in the sold assets were the Shootaring Canyon uranium mill in Utah and unpatented uranium claims in Wyoming, Colorado, Arizona and Utah. Pursuant to the asset purchase agreement, we may also receive from the purchaser:
·
$20,000,000 cash when the Shootaring Canyon Mill has been operating at 60% or more of its design capacity of 750 short tons per day for 60 consecutive days.
·
$7,500,000 cash on the first delivery (after commercial production has occurred) of mineralized material from any of the claims we sold to a commercial mill (excluding existing ore stockpiles on the properties).
·
From and after commercial production occurs at the Shootaring Canyon Mill, a production payment royalty (up to but not more than $12,500,000) equal to five percent of (i) the gross value of uranium and vanadium products produced at and sold from the mill; or (ii) mill fees received by the purchaser from third parties for custom milling or tolling arrangements, as applicable. If production is sold to an affiliate of the purchaser, partner, or joint venturer, gross value shall be determined by reference to mining industry publications or data.
The timing of future receipt of funds from any of these contingencies is not known.
Royalty on Uranium Claims
We hold a 4% net profits interest on unpatented mining claims on Rio Tinto’s Jackpot uranium property located on Green Mountain in Wyoming.
Research and Development
No research and development expenditures have been incurred, either on the Company’s account or sponsored by a customer of the Company, during the past three fiscal years.
Environmental
Operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, including the National Environmental Policy Act (“NEPA”), Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA"), and the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation Liability Act ("CERCLA"). With respect to proposed mining operations at the Mount Emmons property, Colorado’s mine permitting statute, the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Act, and industrial development and siting laws and regulations, also may affect the project. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with existing environmental regulations. For information on the approximate reclamation costs (decommissioning, decontamination and other reclamation efforts for which we are primarily responsible or potentially responsible) related to the Mount Emmons project, see the consolidated financial statements included in Part II of this Annual Report.
Gas and oil operations also are subject to various federal, state and local governmental and environmental regulations, including regulations governing natural gas and oil production, federal and state regulations for environmental quality and pollution control, and state limits on allowable rates of production by well. These regulations may affect the amount of natural gas and oil available for sale, the availability of adequate pipeline and other regulated transportation and processing facilities, and other matters. State and federal regulations generally are intended to prevent waste of natural gas and oil, protect rights to produce natural gas and oil between owners in a common reservoir, control the amount produced by assigning allowable rates of production and control contamination of the environment. Pipelines are subject to the jurisdiction of various federal, state and local agencies. From time to time, various proposals are made by regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Regulatory changes can adversely impact the permitting and exploration and development of mineral and oil and gas properties including the availability of capital.
Although all of our oil and gas properties are operated by third parties, the activities on the properties are still subject to environmental protection regulations. Operators are required to obtain drilling permits, restrict substances that can be released into the environment, and require remedial work to mitigate pollution from operations (such as pollution from operations), close and cover disposal pits, and plug abandoned wells. Violations by the operator could result in substantial liabilities, and we would have to pay our share. Based on the current regulatory environment in those states where we have oil and natural gas investments, we don’t expect to make any material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.
Failure to comply with these regulations could result in substantial fines, environmental remediation orders and/or potential shut down of a project until compliance is achieved. Failure to timely obtain required permits to start operations at a project could cause delay and/or the failure of the project resulting in a potential write-off of the investments made.
Insurance
The Company has the following insurance coverage:
General
A general liability policy provides $1 million of liability coverage per occurrence, $2 million general aggregate limit and a $10 million commercial excess liability policy. These policies cover bodily injury and property damage, but do not cover all potential liabilities for Company activities. Accordingly, we have additional policies related to other areas of our business.
Oil and Gas Exploration and Development
Pursuant to the Joint Operating Agreements (“JOAs”) between the Company and each operator of the properties where we hold working interests, each working interest owner is responsible for paying its share of costs and expenses related to operations. The liability of the parties is several, not joint or collective, and the relationship between the parties is not a partnership. None of the JOAs provide for indemnification between the parties.
The JOAs also require the operator to obtain and maintain liability insurance for the benefit of all the working interest owners (premiums are paid pro rata by the working interest owners). Policies currently in place provide $1 million per event, $2 million general aggregate liability coverage, $1 million auto insurance, excess coverage (overlaying the preceding) of $5 million to $20 million and $5 million to $15 million for “operator’s extra expense” (control of well). Premiums are paid by the working interest owners pro rata to ownership.
The Company has also purchased non-operator liability insurance providing $1 million of liability coverage per occurrence, $2 million general aggregate limit and $20 million in excess liability.
Mt. Emmons Project
The Company is responsible for all costs to operate the water treatment plant at the Mt. Emmons project until Thompson Creek Metals Company USA (“TCM”) elects to exercise its option to own an interest in the property. We maintain an insurance policy for our benefit in the amounts of $1 million per event, $2 million aggregate general liability, $1 million automobile liability, $10 million environmental impairment liability, and $10 million excess liability (an upper limit on the coverage other than environmental).
U.S. Energy is an additional insured under TCM’s policies with respect to operations at Mt. Emmons not related to the water treatment plant, with policy limits of $1 million per event, $2 million general aggregate liability, and excess liability of $10 million.
We believe the above insurance is sufficient in the current permitting-exploration stage of the Mt. Emmons project. Additional insurance will be obtained as the level of activity in exploration and development expands.
Corporate Aircraft
The Company maintains a $20 million per event liability policy on its corporate aircraft. We also maintain physical damage insurance, $200,000 and $4 million, on the aircraft which approximates their replacement value.
Remington Village
We have a policy covering $1 million each event, $2 million general aggregate liability and a $9 million of excess liability policy. The deductibles are $1,000 ($5,000 retained limited) per event. We maintain $20.4 million of coverage for the real property written on a Special Form/Replacement Cost basis.
Employees
As of March, 2011, we had 19 full-time employees.
Mining Claim Holdings
Title
Approximately 25 of the Mount Emmons mining claims are patented claims; however the majority of claims are unpatented.
Unpatented claims are located upon federal and public land pursuant to procedures established by the General Mining Law, which governs mining claims and related activities on Federal public lands. Requirements for the location of a valid mining claim on public land depend on the type of claim being staked, but generally include discovery of valuable minerals, erecting a discovery monument and posting thereon a location notice, marking the boundaries of the claim with monuments, and filing a certificate of location with the county in which the claim is located and with the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”). If the statutes and regulations for the location of a mining claim are complied with, the locator obtains a valid possessory right to the contained minerals. To preserve an otherwise valid claim, a claimant must also pay certain rental fees annually to the federal government and make certain additional filings with the county and the BLM. Failure to pay such fees or make the required filing may render the mining claim void or voidable.
Because mining claims are self-initiated and self-maintained, they possess some unique vulnerability not associated with other types of property interests. It is impossible to ascertain the validity of unpatented mining claims solely from public records and it can be difficult or impossible to confirm that all of the requisite steps have been followed for location and maintenance of a claim. If the validity of an unpatented mining claim is challenged by the government, the claimant has the burden of proving the economic feasibility of mining minerals located thereon. However, we believe that all of our Mount Emmons mining claims are valid and in good standing.
Proposed Federal Legislation
The U.S. Congress from time to time has considered proposed revisions to the General Mining Law, including as recently as 2009. If these proposed revisions are enacted, payment of royalties on production of minerals from federal lands could be required as well as additional procedural measures, new requirements for reclamation of mined land, and other environmental control measures. The effect of any revision of the General Mining Law on operations cannot be determined until enactment, however, it is
possible that revisions would materially increase the carrying and operating costs of mineral properties located on federal unpatented mining claims.
Item 3