ITEM 2. PROPERTY
Molybdenum - Lucky Jack Molybdenum Property
The Company re-acquired the Lucky Jack Project (formerly the Mount Emmons molybdenum property) located near Crested Butte, Colorado on February 28, 2006. The property was returned to the Company by Phelps Dodge Corporation (“PD”) in accordance with a 1987 Amended Royalty Deed and Agreement between Company and Amax Inc. (“Amax”). The Lucky Jack Project includes a total of 25 patented and approximately 520 unpatented mining claims, which together approximate 5,400 acres, or over 8 square miles of mining claims.
Kobex Resources Ltd. has an option to acquire up to 65% of the Lucky Jack Project. See Part I above.
Conveyance of the property to the Company also included the transfer of ownership and operational responsibility of the mine water treatment plant located on the properties. The water treatment permit issued under the Colorado Discharge Permit System (“CDPS”) was assigned to the Company by the Colorado Department of Health and Environment. Operating costs for the water treatment plant are expected to approximate $1 million annually. The Company has hired a contractor to operate the water treatment plant. The Company will also evaluate the potential use of the water treatment plant in the milling operations.
The Company leased various patented and unpatented mining claims on the Lucky Jack molybdenum property to Amax in 1974. In the late 1970s, Amax delineated a large deposit of molybdenum on the properties, reportedly containing approximately million tons of mineralized material averaging 0.44% molybdenum disulfide (MoS2). In 1980, Amax constructed a water treatment plant at the Lucky Jack molybdenum property to treat water flowing from old mine workings and for potential use in milling operations. By 1983, Amax had reportedly spent an estimated $150 million in the acquisition of the property, securing water rights, extensive exploration, ore body delineation, mine planning, metallurgical testing and other activities involving the mineral deposit. Amax was merged into Cyprus Minerals in 1992 to form Cyprus Amax. PD then acquired the Lucky Jack molybdenum property Project in 1999 through its acquisition of Cyprus Amax. Thereafter, PD acquired additional water rights and patents to certain claims to mine and mill the deposit.
In its 1992 patent application to the Bureau of Land Management of the United States Department of the Interior (“BLM”), Amax stated that the size and grade of the Mount Emmons deposit was determined to approximate 220 million tons grading 0.366% molybdenite. In a letter dated April 2, 2004, BLM estimated that there were about 23 million tons of mineable reserves containing 0.689% molybdenite, and that about 267 million pounds of molybdenum trioxide was recoverable. This letter covered only the high-grade mineralization which is only a portion of the total mineral deposit delineated to date. The BLM relied on a mineral report prepared by Western Mine Engineering (WME) for the U.S. Forest Service, which directed and administered the WME contract. WME’s analysis was based upon a price of $4.61 per pound for molybdic oxide and was used by BLM in determining that nine claims satisfied the patenting requirement that the mining claims contain a valuable mineral that could be mined profitably. WME consulted a variety of sources in preparation of its report, including a study prepared in 1990 by American Mine Services, Inc. and a pre-feasibility report prepared by Behre Dolbear & Company, Inc. of Denver, CO in 1998.
Uranium - Mining Properties
The Company owns the Shootaring Canyon uranium mill in southeastern Utah, holds approximately 40,000 acres of mineral claims and leases, and own historical libraries/data covering several mines and exploration areas in Arizona, Colorado, Utah, and Wyoming. These properties range from exploration to pre-production status. The property locations include the historic producing areas in Lisbon Valley, San Juan County, Utah; Crooks Gap, Fremont County, Wyoming; the Uravan Mineral belt of Colorado, and the Arizona Strip area of Mohave and Coconino Counties, Arizona. The Arizona Strip area hosts higher grade “Breccia Pipe” uranium mines operated in the early 1980s. Extensive and highly prospective land holdings have also been acquired in the Henry Mountains area, Garfield County, Utah, within 20 - 40 miles of the Shootaring Canyon uranium mill.
·
Utah
In August 1993, USE purchased from Consumers Power Company ("CPC") all of the outstanding stock of Plateau, which owns the Shootaring Canyon uranium mill, a uranium processing mill in southeastern Utah for nominal cash consideration and the assumption of various reclamation obligations. Crested does not own stock in Plateau, but Crested has a 50% interest in Plateau’s cash flow. The Shootaring Canyon uranium mill is one of only four remaining licensed uranium mills in the United States. The mill holds a source materials license from the State of Utah, Division of Radiation Control.
The Shootaring Canyon uranium mill occupies 19 acres of a 265 fee acre plant site. The mill was the last uranium mill built (in 1982) in the United States. It was designed to process 750 tons of material per day (“tpd”), but only operated four months on a trial basis in mid-summer of 1982. In 1984, Plateau placed the mill on standby because CPC had canceled the construction of an additional nuclear energy plant. Plateau also owns approximately 94,200 tons of uranium mineralized material stockpiled at the mill site with an average grade of about 0.12% U3O8.
USE has signed a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between the Utah Division of Radiation Control and USE’s subsidiary, Plateau Resources Limited, Inc. (Plateau). The MOA allows the State of Utah to allocate staff and consultants to complete the review process requested by Plateau in March 2005 to change the Shootaring Canyon uranium mill license from “reclamation” to “full operational” status.
In and 2004, reclamation work on uranium properties (the Tony M and Velvet, then held by Plateau in San Juan County, Utah) was completed. Plateau had relinquished these properties in 2003 and 2004, respectively, but has subsequently acquired the Velvet from a third party who staked unpatented mining claims on the property (see below). As a result of the Company’s filings to bring the mill licenses and permits to “operational status, the Company expended limited amounts of capital for standby operations of the Shootaring Canyon uranium mill in 2006.
The mill should be capable of operating at 1,000 tpd, once the operation license is issued and refurbishing is completed. Depending on the grade of material fed to the mill, it is anticipated that it will have the capacity to produce 1.5 million pounds of uranium concentrates annually.
An independent Technical Review and Valuation of the mill was completed in July 2005 by Behre Dolbear & Company (USA), Inc. of Denver, Colorado (“BDC”), which concluded that the then current replacement cost value was $80.5 million. Further, BDC estimated capital expenditures to upgrade the mill and tailings facility for uranium processing to be $31.2 million before production could begin. BDC also estimated that the costs to add a vanadium circuit that could produce an estimated 3.9 million pounds of vanadium (V2O6) annually to be $18.8 million. In order to fund the refurbishment of the mill and acquire additional uranium properties from which to produce uranium bearing ores, we would seek joint venture partners or equity participants.
Green River North and South Projects, Utah
The Green River North project consists of 10 lode mining claims owned by the Company. These claims cover the Deeper Gold deposit with an historic estimate of approximately 650,000 pounds U3O8 with an average grade of 0.23% U3O8 per ton of mineralized material. This estimate was originally developed in December 1985. The Deeper Gold deposit is approximately 110 miles by paved road from the Shootaring Canyon uranium mill.
Included in the Green River South Project is the Sahara Mine, (See Part I, Industry Segments/Principle Products, Minerals - uranium / UPC Mining Venture Agreement above) which has an historic estimate of approximately 500,000 pounds of uranium oxide (U3O8) with an average grade of 0.23% U3O8 per ton of mineralized material. The Sahara Mine is approximately 90 miles by paved road from the Shootaring Canyon uranium mill. The Sahara Mine was in minimal production before it was shut down. The material and grade estimate was reported by the previous operator of the property, Energy Fuels Inc. Approximately 450 holes were drilled on the deposit, delineating the first 1,800 feet of the trend. All the logs for this drilling are in the possession of the Company.
Historic exploration drilling on the Green River South property indicates that a substantial number of targets have already been developed and are available for follow-up drilling, and that the potential for additional discoveries is significant. However, if the Uranium One contract is closed, the Company’s interest will be transferred to UPC; if the contract is not closed, the Company may relinquish its rights (see above).
Twenty boreholes were drilled in late 2006 with five confirming historic drilling at the Sahara deposit. Two hundred ten feet of core were taken from these holes to test chemical versus radiometric grade equilibrium. The remainder of the holes was exploration to test the extension of mineralization and hosting sand channels east of the known Sahara Deposit. A total of 10,940 feet was drilled.
Lisbon Valley, Utah
An extensive review of regional data included in the USE library has led to the development of a depositional model for uranium mineralization in the Cutler formation. This model is well supported by hard geologic data, and indicates that there is excellent potential to develop new resources on the project lands. Several months in 2006 were spent refining the depositional model through studying published reports and in house reports, analyzing old drilling data, and doing field work through an outcrop mapping program. Our findings resulted in an additional 145 claims being staked in the project area.
A first phase drill program to test the model has been designed and permitted.
Henry Mountains, Utah
An extensive review of regional data included in the USE library has led to the development of a depositional model for uranium mineralization in the Morrison formation north of the Shootaring Canyon uranium mill. This model is well supported by hard data, and indicates excellent potential to develop new resources in the area. Several months in 2006 were spent refining the depositional model through studying historic drilling, published and in-house reports. Field mapping of the mineralized horizon has been completed.
A drilling program has been developed and submitted to the BLM for permitting.
· Wyoming
In February 1988, the Company acquired from Western Nuclear, Inc. unpatented lode uranium mines, mining equipment and mineralized properties (including underground and open pit mines) at Crooks Gap in south-central Fremont County, Wyoming. The mines were operated by Western Nuclear in the 1970s. The Company mined and milled uranium ore from one of the underground Sheep Mines in 1988 and 1989.
At the filing date of this Annual Report, the Company owns 286 unpatented lode mining claims (approximately 5,909 acres) and a 644 acre Wyoming State Mineral Lease on Sheep Mountain in Crooks Gap, Wyoming and adjacent areas. Production from 57 of these claims and the leases which together comprise the core Sheep Mountain properties is subject to royalty interests held by third parties ranging from 1% to 4% of the NUEXCO monthly exchange value per pound of uranium oxide (a sliding rate of 1% per pound if the price is $27.99 or less, up to 4% if the price is at or above $44.00). Additional royalties of from $0.50 per pound, to 5% of gross sales price (less haulage and development allowances) of uranium oxide, burden some of these same properties.
The Sheep Mountain property reportedly produced over 17 million pounds of uranium concentrates prior to being idled by depressed market conditions in the 1980s. The Company is utilizing its extensive uranium data library of drill, mine, and property information to identify exploration targets on this property. The deeper zones have not been systematically tested nor have they been included in any historical resource estimation. Current interpretations of the historical data indicate the potential to expand mineralized areas believed to exist on the Sheep Mountain property. All of the uranium mining properties at Sheep Mountain are currently shut down with limited reclamation activities. Monitoring and reporting work continues to keep the permits current.
There is no operating uranium mill near Sheep Mountain, but Rio Tinto owns the Sweetwater Mill (which is on standby) some 30 miles south of Sheep Mountain. The ultimate economics of mining the Sheep Mountain properties through underground working will depend on access to a mill.
Over a period of at least 24 months, substantial work would be required to put the Sheep Mountain uranium mines into production, including permitting, cleaning rock and other debris from shafts and tunnels, pumping water out of the mines, extending shafts and tunnels, and further drill sampling to ascertain whether a commercially viable ore body exists on any of the properties.
We have recorded reclamation liabilities for the Sheep Mountain properties (see note K to the consolidated financial statements). No historical costs from the Sheep Mountain properties are on the balance sheet of USE at December 31, 2006. Current permits are in place for standby maintenance and reclamation of the mines.
· Arizona
On August 22, 2005, the Company and UPC signed an agreement to add two more uranium projects to their joint venture (Burro Canyon in Colorado and Breccia Pipes located in Arizona). The latter project involves properties in the Arizona Strip, in northern Arizona. This property consists of 54 lode mining claims (Star and Java claims) on BLM land in Mohave and Coconino counties, Arizona. The exploration targets on these properties are known as Breccia Pipes uranium deposits.
These properties were acquired by the Company pursuant to an agreement with Nu Star Exploration, LLC. Under the terms of the agreement between the Company and UPC, UPC will earn a 50% interest in the project by contributing the first $500,000 in acquisition and exploration expenses for the project (but still, UPC will have to complete its payments under the Purchase and Sale Agreement generally, to hold the 50% interest in the project). Additionally, UPC will issue up to 500,000 common shares of UPC stock to the Company, subject to regulations of the TSX Venture Exchange, within six months of the date drilling results outline an inferred mineral resource on the Breccia Pipes Project as follows: 1) 250,000 common shares for the first 500,000 lbs. of contained U3O8 identified and 2) an additional 250,000 common shares for the second 500,000 lbs. of contained U3O8 identified. Inferred mineral resource is an estimation category which UPC is allowed to disclose under Canadian NI 43-101. SEC regulations do not permit the Company to make such disclosures.
The Arizona Strip was the site of a major uranium staking rush in the early 1980s. Uranium-bearing Breccia Pipes were first located in the Hack Canyon area of Mohave County and the mineralized material was typically of a higher grade than other uranium deposits located in surrounding areas of the Colorado Plateau. Historic mining in the Arizona Strip has produced uranium with an average grade of up to 0.80% U3O8. Production from individual mines in this district has ranged from about 1,000,000 lbs to 7,000,000 lbs U3O8.
The Star claims are near the partially mined Arizona I mine. The area is located within a short distance to the south of the Hack Canyon mining area. Mapping on the Star claims indicates the presence of 23 potential pipes, with the potential for additional targets on the Java claims. If any of the targets are developed to a mining stage, the Shootaring Canyon uranium mill would be the likely location for ore processing.
Shallow drilling on previously mapped breccia pipe targets was completed in January 2006. Thirty six total boreholes were drilled for a total of 8,094 feet. Seven targets were evaluated with this program resulting in the location of two collapsed cones. Identifying the collapsed cones allows geologists to focus the location of deeper exploration drilling designed to possibly discover uranium mineralization.
· Colorado
unpatented mining claims consisting of approximately 3,853 acres were acquired in Colorado in the Sage Plains and Burro Canyon areas. At the Burro Canyon area, 78 claims were acquired from a third party with a production royalty of 2.56%.
Drilling took place at the Burro Canyon Project in February and March of 2006. Seventeen boreholes totaling 20,293 feet were drilled along trends established by past mining in the Burro and Sunday Mines. Nine of these boreholes penetrated uranium mineralization. This mineralization confirms that ore horizons mined from surrounding properties continues on claims controlled by Plateau Resources Limited, Inc.
Gold - Sutter Gold Mining Inc. (Active Exploration)
SGMI holds approximately 535 acres of surface and mineral rights near Sutter Creek, Amador County, California, approximately 45 miles east-southeast of Sacramento, CA, in the central part of the 121-mile-long Mother Lode gold belt. The Sutter Gold Project is located in the western Sierra Nevada Mountains at 1,000 to 1,500 feet in elevation. The year round climate is temperate. Access is by California State Highway 16 from Sacramento to California State Highway 49, then by paved county road approximately .4 miles outside of Sutter Creek.
A Conditional Use Permit is being kept current to allow for planned mining activities on the properties in the future.
Surface and mineral rights holding costs, and property taxes were $823,300 in 2006. Additionally, SGMI expended $471,324 in a drilling program and the maintenance of equipment. The leases are for varying terms and require rental fees, annual royalty payments and payment of real property taxes and insurance. A tourist visitor’s center and gift shop has been set up and leased to a third party for $1,500 per month plus a 4% gross royalty on revenues. These revenues offset a portion of costs for holding the SGMI properties.
A review of documentation of historic gold production from properties to the north and south of the Sutter Gold Project shows that between 1857 and 1951, a total of 2,350,096 ounces of gold were produced from the Project.
Production was halted in most of the producing mines because of the Second World War, not because they ran out of ore. The report indicates that these very productive mines chased gold bearing mineralized veins to seven times the depth of SGMI’s present workings.
The areas of large historic gold production are found at the north and south ends of the Sutter Gold Project area, bracketing a one-mile long portion of the Mother Lode Belt with no historic gold production, and which hosts Sutter Gold’s Lincoln and Comet Zones. The Lincoln and Comet Zones were blind discoveries that did not outcrop at surface and which represent the first significant new gold discoveries made along the Mother Lode Belt in the last 50 years that are unrelated to past-producing mines. SGMI believes there is significant potential for continued new discoveries within the area of the Lincoln and Comet Zones, both near the surface and at depth as 90% of the property has not been explored.
The property has been the subject of considerable modern exploration activity, most of it centering on the Lincoln and Comet zones, which are adjacent to each other. A total of 85,085 feet of drilling has been accomplished in prior years, with 190 diamond drill holes, and modern underground development consists of a 2,850-foot declined ramp with 2,400 feet of crosscuts plus five raises.
To further delineate the resource size and connect the Lincoln and Comet blocks, an underground and surface drilling program was executed in the latter part of and continued into 2007. During 2006, 8,718 feet of underground core drilling in 32 holes and 1,931 feet of surface core in 2 holes were completed. Assay results have been received for 14 of the holes. Notable intercepts in those holes included 24 feet of 0.21 ounces gold per ton in hole 0164 and 9.3 feet of 1.26 ounces gold per ton in hole 0165.
Other Properties
· Fort Peck Lustre Field (Montana)
The Company operated a small oil production facility (two wells) at the Lustre Oil Field on the Ft. Peck Indian Reservation in northeastern Montana, for a fee based on oil produced. The wells were shut in during April 2006 and negotiations began to return the wells to the Ft. Peck Tribes. Negotiations resulted in an agreement, not yet signed, whereby the Tribes would assume all reclamation obligations on the wells and USE and its co-participants in the wells would deed over to the tribes all tanks, pump equipment and down hole equipment to the Tribes. A final distribution of residual funds from production and the conveyance of the property is pending.
· Wyoming
The Company owns a 14-acre tract in Riverton, Wyoming, with a two-story 30,400 square foot office building. The first floor is rented to non-affiliates and government agencies; the second floor is occupied by the Company. The property is mortgaged to the WDEQ as security for future reclamation work on the Sheep Mountain Crooks Gap uranium properties. If the Uranium One contract is closed, the mortgage will be released. The Company also owns a 10,000 square foot aircraft hangar on land leased from the City of Riverton; 7,000 square feet of associated offices and facilities; three vacant lots covering 16 acres in Fremont County, Wyoming, and two city lots and improvements including one small office building.
· Utah
On February 27, 2006, Plateau re-acquired by Foreclosure Sale the Ticaboo, Utah properties. The properties include: a motel, restaurant and lounge, convenience store, recreational boat storage and service facility, and improved residential and mobile home lots. Most of these properties were acquired when the Shootaring Canyon uranium mill was acquired in the early 1990s.
On April 12, 2006, the Company signed a contract with ARAMARK Sports and Entertainment Services, Inc., a subsidiary of ARAMARK (NYSE: “RMK”), for the management and operation of all commercial services at the Ticaboo town site. The initial term of the contract is for three years, with one three-year extension option to be exercised upon the mutual agreement of USE and ARAMARK. Under the terms of the contract, ARAMARK will manage the Ticaboo town site’s 70-room motel, convenience store, mobile home park, boat storage facility, restaurant and lounge. ARAMARK will also add Ticaboo to its nationwide reservation center and website. Per terms of the agreement, ARAMARK will receive a management fee and will invest in a marketing program designed to maximize future revenues.
ITEM 3.