Item 2. Description of properties
Erbahuo
Property location and description
Erbahuo is located at the common boundary of Keshiketeng county and Wenniute county in Inner Mongolia, within the Maoshandong village of Wenniute county. The property is about 1.2 km2. Access to the property is 110km via paved highway from Chifeng City to the village of Maoshandong and then west 10 km by unsealed road to the property. The mine is an underground and open pit mine. A 10kv electricity power net passes through the concession and the electrical power is adequate for mining purposes. The property has eight existing exploratory tunnels totaling about 800m in length. The property has a building used as onsite offices and dormitory, which was built in December 2006 at a cost of RMB235,000.
The neighboring exploration properties of Dadi, Laopandao, Aobaotugounao, Yuanlinzi, Zhuanxinhu and Shididonggou are all located within Keshiketeng County and cover a total area of 139 km2.
Agreements
On March 16, 2006, we entered into an agreement to acquire certain mining and exploration rights to the Erbahuo Silver Project by purchasing a 60% interest in Sino-Top from Sino Silver (the “Asset Purchase Agreement”). Sino-Top was an equity joint venture company originally created under the Joint Venture Agreement dated April 14, 2005 between Sino Silver and certain other parties. Pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, we acquired a 60% interest in Sino-Top and became a party to the Joint Venture Agreement. Sino-Top holds the exploration and mining rights to nine properties in the Erbahuo Silver District in Northern China (“Erbahuo Projects”). The total purchase price was $650,000 plus 4,000,000 shares of our restricted common stock, all of which had been delivered to Sino Silver following receipt of the requisite approvals to the transfer by the local Provincial Department of Commerce in China. In March 2007, we increased our interest from 60% to 90% in exchange for 2 million restricted common shares of the company. On May 9, 2007, we received approval from the Ministry of Commerce to change the equity joint venture to a contractual joint venture. On June 10, 2008, we signed a letter of intent with our state-owned Chinese Joint venture partner Exploration Unit of North China Nonferrous Geological Exploration Bureau, also known as Huaguan Industrial Corp. (“HIC’’) to sell a 50% equity interest in Sino-Top, not including the Erbahuo mine, from Silver Dragon in exchange for US$4.5 million. With respect to the Erbahuo mine, the then-ninth exploration property owned by Chifeng Silver Dragon, a wholly owned subsidiary of Sino-Top, Silver Dragon is entitled to a 70% interest of after-tax proceeds and HIC is entitled to 30%. On November 20, 2008, Gansu Shengda Group Ltd. (Shengda), a private Chinese conglomerate, agreed to acquire 52% of the equity interests in Sino-Top from HIC, Silver Dragon’s state-owned Chinese joint venture partner. On January 21, 2010, Sino-Top sold the Saihanaobao and Liangdi Properties to Chinese State-owned Entities for approximately USD$4.2 Million.
Prior to entering into the Asset Purchase Agreement described above, on April 14, 2005 we entered into a Venture Agreement with Sino Silver to acquire 50% of Sino Silver’s interest in the net proceeds from the sale of minerals or the sale of mining rights as a result of the exploration, evaluation, and development of the Aobaotugounao property located in the Erbahuo Silver District. Consideration for the interest included cash payments of $350,000 over a two year period and the issuance of 500,000 shares of our common stock. On closing, we paid $150,000 cash and issued 250,000 restricted common shares. In addition, 4,500,000 restricted common shares were issued to parties who assisted in the transaction. Three million of these shares were subsequently returned to us and cancelled. The Venture Agreement was superseded by the Asset Purchase Agreement described above.
History
Silver was discovered in Erbahuo following analysis by the Comprehensive Gross Exploration Department (the “Department”) from 1989 to 1992, when exploration was carried out for the purpose of finding the necessary silver reserves projected to be required to satisfy China’s growing industrial demands. A geological survey at scales of 1:10,000 and 1:2,000 has been completed. In 1992, the Department committed the Nonferrous Metal Metallurgy Institute in Beijing to complete the primary metallurgical trial. In 1997, the Department completed detailed geological survey work. From 1998 to 2002, exploration was carried out leading to the eventual mining of approximately 30,000 tons of ore with an average grade of 248.02 gpt silver at a cut-off grade of 200 gpt Ag.
Operations
In 2010, a comprehensive exploration program that consisted of a total of 12,634m drilling (29 holes), 2,545m tunneling and surface geological work was completed on Dadi and Laopandao properties, which are exploratory in nature. The Company intends to further explore the properties, with the goal of applying for mining licenses for Dadi and Laopandao by the end of 2011.
Since 2006, an advanced drilling program has been carried out on the Laopandao project, focusing on three mineralization zones and it is these three zones which were the focus of an initial geological report in China in February 2011. Highlights from the report are as follows:
Highlights
Mineralization zone II is also featured by a silver-copper-tin enrichment and is approximately 200m long and 80m wide, containing 16 mineralized bodies.
Mineralization zone III is characterized by tin mineralization, approximately 300m long and 200m wide and occurs within a granite porphyry intrusion. A total of 21 mineralized bodies were identified.
All mineralized bodies have been defined by drill holes and/or underground drifts, the samples were analyzed with internal and external verification.
The Company will continue advanced exploration of Laopandao in 2011. The company will conduct metallurgical testing on the 2010 exploration results and commission an initial NI 43-101 technical report based on CIM standards.
Laopandao, a key exploration project for Silver Dragon, is located in Inner Mongolia Keshiketeng County, North China and is 44.88 km2.
The exposed rocks in the exploration area include Paleozoic Middle Permian Zhesi Formation andesite, Mesozoic Upper Jurassic Baiyigaolao Formation volcanic series, and Yanshanian granite porphyry and quartz porphyry intrusions.
Based on geochemical and geophysical survey results, three geochemical anomalies were found and called anomaly No. 104 in the north, No. 95 in the central, and No. 102 in the south of the property respectively. Since 2006, most drilling and tunneling exploration work has been carried out and focused on the area of geochemical anomaly no. 95 and the three significant Silver-Copper-Tin mineralization zones, each of which consists of multiple mineralized bodies.
Based on annual exploration reports provided by the Comprehensive Exploration Institute of North China Nonferrous Geological Survey Bureau, the exploration work at the Laopandao Property is summarized as follows:
From 2006 to 2009, general and advanced geological exploration, geochemical and geophysical surveys have been carried out by the Comprehensive Geological Exploration Institute of North China Nonferrous Geological Survey Bureau. A total of 23 drill holes (9,936m) and 1,880m tunneling exploration were completed within the central area of the Property (geophysical anomaly no. 95). The exploration focused on mineralization zone I and II
In 2010, advanced geological exploration work was continued and the exploration targets were focused on mineralization zones I and III. The exploration consisted of 11 drill holes (4,696 m), 634m tunneling, and an additional geophysical survey.
In February 2011 a geological report was also completed for the Dadi property based on the results from the 2010 drilling program at the Dadi project.
Highlights
Extensive exploration work has been carried out during the 2010 season with the major focus on mineralization zones I and II. These zones show the most significant mineralization so far. Although mineralization zones (III, IV, and V) also show significant potential, they were not the focus of the 2010 season.
An associated element, cadmium, was found in the polymetallic ores. The cadmium resource could be of significant industrial and economic value.
Using the funds from the sale of two properties in January 2010 mentioned earlier, approx. $3,378,234 was spent on exploration activities in 2010 with the focus on bringing the Erbahuo silver mine into production in 2011, and the Dadi and Laopandao mines into production in 2012.
Mineralization
Rocks include porphyry rhyolite, quartz porphyry, quartz porphyry and breccia conglomerate, running in a north-west direction, for tens to hundreds of meters with widths from several meters to tens of meters. The common forms of mineralization found in the rocks are pyrite, galena, and sphalerite. The prominent structures have provided conduits for the transmission of hydrothermal fluids which has created mineralized zones in such environments as faults, and fractured zones where the fluids were accumulated, trapped and precipitated. The main metallic minerals include the following: pyrolusite, psilomelane, limonite, pyrite, galena, sphalerite, chalcopyrite, and other silver related minerals. The main metallic minerals include the following: pyrolusite, psilomelane, limonite, pyrite, galena, sphalerite, chalcopyrite, and other silver related minerals.
Cerro las Minitas
Property location and description
As noted elsewhere, we have written off our ownership of the Mexican concessions, but if we are successful in our Constitutional Rights Claim, the following will be applicable.
The Cerro Las Minitas property is located in the Minitas Mining District, approximately seven kilometers north of the town of Guadalupe Victoria, Durango and 70 km northeast of the City of Durango, Ciudad Durango, the capital of the state of Durango, and six kilometers northwest of the town of Guadalupe Victoria, in the municipality of Guadalupe Victoria, Durango. The property can be reached from Ciudad Durango via Interstate Highway 40 (Toll Road) and Highway 40 (Free Access), the road from Francisco I. Madera to Cuencame. From Guadalupe Victoria, a graded dirt road leads north to the property. About half of the property is located north of Interstate Highway 40 (a limited access freeway) and an overpass over the highway affords access to the northern part of the property. The claims are located in the Minitas Mining District in the Mining Region of Guadalupe Victoria. The property consists of 15 mining concessions encompassing 1,413 hectares.
The nearby towns of Guadalupe Victoria and Ignacio Ramirez are serviced by the commercial electrical grid and a regional transmission line of the Comisión Federal de Electricidad (CFE) follows Interstate Highway 40. A 33,000 Kva power drop has been extended from the CFE line to the Mina Piña shaft and is serviceable, but in need of repair. Improvements on the property consist of a network of graded dirt roads and various mine buildings in a poor state of repair located in the Puro Corozon - Santo Nino and Mina Pina - La Bocona mining areas
Agreements
In a news release dated December 13, 2005, Silver Dragon Resources, Inc. (the “Company”) announced that it had entered into agreements to purchase a 100% interest in the Cerro Las Minitas Property. In March 2006, Silver Dragon consolidated landholdings in the district and claims are now held by Silver Dragon Mining de Mexico S.A. De C.V, a wholly owned Mexican subsidiary of Silver Dragon Resources Inc. (“Silver Dragon Mexico”), by virtue of “Agreements to Purchase” 15 of the mining concessions (collectively, the Purchase Agreement).
Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement with Sr. Jaime Muguiro Peña, the Company has earned 100% interest in ten mining concessions by payment of $450,000, plus 450,000 restricted common shares. All payments to Sr. Muguiro have been made.
Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement with Sr. & Sra. Ramon Davila Flores, the Company has earned 100% interest in five mining concessions by payment of $245,000. All payments to Sr. and Sra. Flores have been made.
The surface access to the property is controlled by the Guadalupe Victoria and Ignacio Ramirez Ejidos. Silver Dragon Mining de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. has a surface agreement to cover the common ground of the Guadalupe Victoria Ejido that lies within the Cerro Las Minitas concessions. Agreements with individual Ejido landowners are negotiated as needed to cover deeded lands.
On August 12, 2010, Silver Dragon Mexico entered into an agreement with Ema Violante, wherein Ms. Violante sold to Silver Dragon Mexico five hectares of land for $15,564 in Guadalupe Victoria, Durango, Mexico to be used to build a tailings pond when the Company commences construction of its mill.
The minimum annual work requirement for these mining concessions is approximately $19,500. According to the Mining Law and Ruling, there is an obligation to submit the evidence of the work expenditures to the authorities for properties larger than 1,000 hectares. It is therefore recommended that the required information for the previous reporting year be submitted annually each May.
History
There is little documentation regarding the history at Cerro Las Minitas, but local legend has it that Spaniards from the city of Victoria de Durango (now Durango City) discovered the silver mineralization at Cerro Las Minitas originally. The historical information presented herein has been gleaned from discussions with local miners and operators and the few previous evaluative reports concerning the property that do exist.
The only two areas with significant exploitation in the district are the Santo Niño-Puro Corazón and La Bocona-Mina Piña areas.
Sr. Carlos Villaseñor discovered Ag-Pb-Zn-Cu mineralization in the Santo Niño-Puro Corazón area in 1960. He explored the deposits there and did minor exploitation of them until 1971, when he built a small mill in the Velardeña district. When the mill became operational, mining was stepped up and ores were shipped to the Velardeña mill to be processed. After attention was drawn to the area by the Villaseñor operations, exploration by others discovered the deposits in the La Bocona-Mina Piña area to the east.
The majority of the mining at Cerro Las Minitas is reported to have been done during the period 1970 - 1981, but has continued intermittently until the present. The mines were idle from 1997 - 2002 due to problems with mine water and the drop in metal prices. Intermittent, small-scale exploitation of the deposits in the Puro Corazón - Santo Niño area continued until 2005 and operations in the Mina Piña - La Bocona area continued to late 2006.
The Consejo de Recursos Minerales (‘‘CRM’’) has been giving support to the miners in the area since 1977. In 1979, CRM completed 834.55m of diamond drilling in seven holes on the Mina Piña area, which belonged at that time to Mr. Santiago Valdez. Mr. Valdez exploited the mine until 1997, when he suspended operations due to the drop in metal prices. CRM discovered additional mineralization in their drilling, but no further exploration or development of those discoveries has been done. CRM delivered drill and assay data to the operators in the district without interpretation.
In 1981, CRM continued its support of the development of the district, completing 77m of shaft and 80m of crosscut to cut the upper, oxidized portion of the La Bocona deposit. Following that work, Sr. Jaime Muguiro deepened the Mina Piña shaft another 59 meters to reach the 210 level. A 140-meter crosscut was driven, encountering a number of thin mineralized horizons and the Huisache mineralized chimney. Sr. Muguiro then suspended operations due to problems with water inflow.
In 1995, Minas de Bacis completed a 30-day evaluation of Cerro Las Minitas, which consisted of analysis of previous data, inspection of accessible workings and analysis of surface geology. Minas de Bacis began negotiations to acquire the concessions in the district. Those negotiations were unsuccessful and Minas de Bacis withdrew. A summary report of Minas de Bacis findings has been located, but much of the data used as the basis for the conclusions in the report has not.
From 1999 to 2000, Minerales Noranda, SA de CV (‘‘Noranda’’) optioned the properties and completed an exploration program including 861 soil and rock samples, an aeromagnetic survey covering the entire district, and seven widely-spaced diamond drill holes (3886 meters total) within the Cerro Las Minitas Dome. Results were encouraging but not up to Noranda’s expectations and they abandoned the property. Unfortunately, the original Noranda data has not been found and all that has been located is fragmentary data presented in a summary report by Proyectos Minerales y Topografia, S.A. de C.V. (2001). Most of the core from Noranda’s drilling has been located and a partial reexamination of that core has been made to confirm data used in estimating the inferred mineral resource reported herein. Continued re-examination of that core is ongoing, as Noranda’s drill logs have not been recovered.
Minera Real Victoria (‘‘MRV’’) acquired leases on concessions in the Puro Corazón - Santo Niño area in 2005 and began a program of exploration in the area. In May 2005, MRV began driving a 2.5m X 2.5m decline into the old Puro Corazón - Santo Niño workings to develop resources believed to be present there. MRV drove 170 meters of workings to connect with level 2 of the Puro Corazon workings and to make a preliminary exploration of the near surface portion of the La Chive mineralized zone. That work was halted in November, 2005 when MRV entered negotiations with Silver Dragon Resources, Inc. to acquire the property. The sampling and resource assessment started by MRV was not completed, but fragmentary data from that work has been recovered.
Operations
Silver Dragon Mining de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. signed agreements to acquire a 100% interest in the properties that now constitute the Company’s holdings in the district in March 2006. At that time, geologists began compiling and analyzing existing data for the property. Examination of that data showed that it was inadequate to guide further exploration operations and a program of rehabilitation, mapping and sampling existing workings on the property began. A combined reverse-circulation and diamond drilling program to test continuity of mineralization at depth commenced in May of 2006. Eleven holes were drilled for 2915 meters. Nine of the eleven holes have been sampled, logged and assayed. Analysis of the two remaining holes will be completed when geotechnical personnel are available. The mine is an underground mine. On October 28, 2008 we signed an agreement to purchase a mill at a price of US$245,000, including approximately US$20,000 for delivery and assembly. We have written off our deposit on the mill as part of the write-off of our Mexican assets.
Mineralization and rock formation
Cerro Las Minitas is located within the geomorphic province of the Mesa Central (Altiplano) of Mexico, northwest of the Sierra Madre Occidental in the State of Durango. In Durango, the Mesa Central is a broad plain at about 2000 meters elevation traversed by NW trending mountain ranges separated by broad NW-trending valleys. Within this province, Cerro Las Minitas lies within a belt of prolific Au, Ag, Pb, Zn and Cu deposits that stretches from the highly productive vein deposits of Fresnillo in Zacatecas to the south, to the massive manto deposits of Santa Eulalia in Chihuahua to the north. This belt includes the productive replacement deposits of San Martin, Santa Eulalia, Santa Barbara and Naica, as well as the rich vein deposits of Fresnillo, El Bote, San Jose and various others.
The basement rocks of Mexico are now known to be composed of an assemblage of tectono-stratigraphic terranes derived from the Paleozoic Appalachian origin and the Mesozoic of the Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico combined with basement rocks of the North American Cordillera. The assemblage includes deformed Pre-Cambrian intrusives and sediments, deformed Lower to Middle Paleozoic sediments and Lower Mesozoic sediments which are all covered with a thick succession of Mesozoic sedimentary and volcanic strata. Those are covered by a thick succession of Tertiary sediments and volcanics and cut by numerous Tertiary intrusives.
Cerro Las Minitas is located within the Parral tectono-stratigraphic terrain near the regional fault that marks the contact between the Parral terrain and the Sierra Madre Occidental terrain. The Parral terrain is characterized by a thick Late Mesozoic, miogeoclinal marine sequence deposited on a basement of Lower Mesozoic, eugeosynclinal sedimentary and volcanic strata. The Parral terrain is host to some of Mexico’s larger Au, Ag, Pb, Zn and Cu replacement deposits, such as Santa Eulalia, Naica, Villardeña, San Martin and Santa Barbara
Item 3.