Item 2. Description of Properties
Introduction
We currently have an interest in the following six silver poly-metallic exploration properties in the Erbahuo Silver District located in Inner Mongolia, China: Dadi; Laopandao; Aobaotugounao; Shididonggou; Yuanlinzi; and Zhuanxinhu. The nature and extent of our interest in such properties is discussed above under the heading “Item 1 - Description of Business”. Only three of such properties are material to us to date: Dadi; Laopandao; and Aobaotugounao. The following table briefly summarizes certain details relating to these properties.
Dadi Silver-Polymetallic Project
The Dadi silver-polymetallic property (“Dadi” or the “Dadi Property”) is owned by Sino-Top, in which the Company owns a 40% equity interest.
The Dadi Property is without known reserves, and the proposed 2013 program for the Dadi Property (discussed below) is exploratory in nature.
Location and Description
The Dadi Property is situated in north central Inner Mongolia in the Xilin Gol Administrative District, approximately 450 kilometers north of Beijing. The geographic coordinates of the Property are Longitude 117° 36’ 15” to 117° 38’ 45” E and Latitude 43° 21’00” to 43° 23’ 00” N. Modern multi-lane divided highways provide excellent access to within five kilometers of the Property.
Regionally, the Dadi Property is located on the intersection of the northern edge of the microplates that makes up the North China platform, striking east-west, and the Siberian platform, and is situated in the area where the Altaids belt intersects the Yanshanian orogenic belt. These structural belts are major mineral-forming belts of China and this tectonic setting provides a dynamic environment for the development of mineralizing systems. Mesozoic (Yanshanian) continental volcano-magmatic activity took place along a northeasterly trend to form the Butelaqu-Duolun volcanic zone. This zone consists of a series of fault basins filled with volcanic rocks developed along a northeasterly trend.
The Dadi Property is on the margin of the Toudi-Liudguo Jurassic volcanic basin and is situated on the southwest end of the south side of Huanggangliang-Ganzhuermiao Anticlinorium and is underlain by the volcanic and volcanic-clastic rocks of the upper Jurassic Balyingaolao Formation.
Two explosive magazines were newly built in 2011. Gravel and dirt roads have been constructed on the property and are in good condition. Equipment on the property includes air compressors, cinder scrapers, jack drills, generators, all purchased in 2011. A total of 7,000 meters of tunneling have been completed. The total cost incurred to date by Sino-Top on the exploration of Dadi is RMB32.5 million. The anticipated aggregate future cost to bring Dadi into production is RMB76 million. This includes further exploration and the development of infrastructure to develop an operating mine to extract underground minerals. The funds are expected to be contributed by the joint venture partners. The source of power is the state grid. Water is transported from local supply by tankers, but four water wells on the property are currently under construction.
Geology and Mineralization
Regional Geology
Regionally, the Dadi Property is located on the intersection of the northern edge of the microplates that make up the North China platform, striking east-west, and the Siberian platform, and is situated in the area where the Altaids belt intersects the Yanshanian orogenic belt.
Mesozoic (Yanshanian) continental volcano-magmatic activity took place along a northeasterly trend to form the Butelaqu-Duolun volcanic zone. This zone consists of a series of fault basins filled with volcanic rocks developed along a northeasterly trend. The Property is on the margin of the Toudi-Liudguo, Jurassic volcanic basin.
Local and Property Geology
The Dadi Property is underlain by the volcanic and volcanic-clastic rocks of the upper Jurassic Balyingaolao Formation.
Minerals occur in a gangue of quartz, chalcedony, carbonate minerals, fluorite, barite, sericite, adularia and clay minerals. Banding of the minerals is common. The veins can also contain minerals in crusty, vuggy and colloform textures. Widespread wall rock alteration includes chlorite, sericite, quartz, pyrite and locally carbonate and feldspar minerals. Heavily oxidized rock consists of limonite with sulphide inclusions.
Alteration in the Dadi Property is pervasive. Type and intensity of the alteration varies with proximity to mineralization and the host rock. Near surface oxidation of the sulfide minerals is pervasive and is characterized by the development of box work structures providing evidence of extensive leaching. Limonite is the dominant alteration product. Oxidation moderates with the transition to the sulphide environment at depth.
Within the sulphide environment the nature, extent and intensity of the wall rock alteration is directly related to proximity to mineralization and to a lesser degree on the rock type. Limonitization and pyritization are dominant with weak chloritization and carbonatization; the alteration products include limonite and pyrite, which exhibit a grainy or cellular appearance and chlorite and calcite occurs as veinlets.
Mining Claims
The Dadi Property comprises one exploration license, T15120090602031788, which covers 1,248 hectares. The license was granted on July 1, 2011 and is valid until June 30, 2013. The exploration license is under the name of Inner Mongolia Guangda Mining, Ltd. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Sino-Top). The license grants the right to detailed exploration over an area of 12.48 square kilometers in Keshiketeng County, Inner Mongolia. The registrant of the license must file annual geological reports with the local land and resources administration at year end. Prior to expiration of the license, which is usually valid for two years, the registrant can apply for license renewal, which requires relevant materials to be presented in order to show that the stage of exploration work on the property is further advanced. Stages of exploration work advance from reconnaissance, general exploration, detailed exploration and prospecting. If the registrant cannot fully complete the necessary exploration work on the property due to geological conditions, the registrant has one opportunity to apply for the license renewal at the same stage of exploration. The application materials for renewal presented to the Land and Resources Department include property location map, exploration license, opinions from the local government, exploration work design/contracts, qualification certificates of contractors, source of project funds, annual exploration reports reviewed/approved by the local land and resources administration and financial reports. While management expects that the license will be renewed following application, there can be no assurance thereof.
There are no environmental liabilities, royalties, back-in rights or other payments known to us to which the Dadi Property is subject, and there are no other significant factors or risks known to us that may affect access, title, or the right or ability to perform work on the property.
The following map illustrates the general location of the Dadi Project and the associated mining claims:
History of Previous Operations
The silver, lead and zinc mineralization on the Dadi Property was discovered by silt geochemical surveys in 1963 and 1964 by the North China Exploration Bureau. Over the next three decades, to our knowledge, very little work was done on the Dadi Property.
In 2005, Sino-Top acquired Dadi and commenced work in 2006. Over the next five years, extensive surface and underground exploration was carried out.
Over the past six years, as discussed below, exploration on the Dadi Property has included geological mapping at various scale, soil geochemistry, trenching, geophysics, diamond drilling, extensive underground exploration on two levels.
An extensive underground tunnel system has been constructed and a drilling, trenching & tunneling program is well underway with a total of 7,174 meters of surface trenching, 14,632 meters of diamond drilling, and 2,822 meters of underground exploration and infrastructure tunneling completed to date.
Trenching
The majority of the trenching activity on the Dadi Property over the past 5 years focused on exploring the primary deposit zone 1 (“PD1”) deposit area (mineralized zone), excavating over 30 trenches and extracting over 4,600 metres3 of overburden-regolith. The results of this work were encouraging, resulting in the discovery of 10 mineralized zones. During this time, three trenches (TC24, TC25-1 and TC2) exposed the primary deposit 2 (“PD2”) deposit along strike for 250 metres. During 2010, trenching activity shifted to the PD2 deposit area, excavating six additional trenches, extracting approximately 225 metres3 of overburden-regolith to expose and trace the PD2 deposit along strike for an additional 550 metres for a total strike length of 800 metres. Samples from trenching were delivered to the field office for temporary secure storage and held for shipment to the Yanjiao Central Laboratory of North China Nonferrous Geological Bureau in Sanhe for analysis. Results of the sample analysis were used to evaluate and further define future exploration targets and focus.
Underground Exploration
The underground infrastructure work on the Dadi Property was carried out under contract by Wenzhou Mining Engineering Co. Ltd., The contract called for nominal two metre by two metre underground openings; however, in most cases, the openings are slightly larger. During the 2010 exploration Program, 1,910.7 metres of underground tunneling was completed. This work connected the PD1 deposit accessed by the PD1 adit level (1384 meters ASL) with the PD2 deposit accessed by the PD-2 adit level (1426 metres ASL), thereby integrating both deposits into the Dadi mine plan.
Underground Channel Sampling
Extensive underground channel sampling was completed during the 2010 exploration program.
Underground exploration during 2010 exposed the PD1 and PD2 mineralized zones. The mineralized zone was mapped and sample locations identified by a geologist. The sample locations were based on visual inspection of the exposed mineralized zone. Samples were delivered to the field office for temporary secure storage and held for shipment to the Yanjiao Central Laboratory of North China Nonferrous Geological Bureau in Sanhe for analysis.
Results of the sample analysis were used to evaluate and further define future exploration targets and focus.
Initially, the program focused on sampling the mineralized zones intersected along the crosscut drift connecting the PD1 and PD2 deposits.
Diamond Drilling
Concurrent with the underground exploration program, Sino-Top contracted HIC to perform a diamond-drilling program consisting of 18 diamond drill holes totaling 8,476.04 metres. These holes were located to test deep targets on the PD1 and PD2 deposits. The core boxes were delivered to the field office by a technician, and the core was stored in a secure location pending logging and sampling. The drill core was logged and sample intervals identified for diamond saw cutting and sampling. The intervals to be sampled were based on the visual presence or absence of lead and zinc mineralization in the drill core. Nominally, the sample interval was 1.0 meters, respecting geologic control, and depending on the nature of the mineralization the samples would range between 3 and 5 kilograms. The samples were stored in the field at a secure location and delivered to the Yanjiao Central Laboratory of North China Nonferrous Geological Bureau in Sanhe for analysis. Results of the sample analysis were used to evaluate and further define future exploration targets and focus.
2012 Operations
Exploration work for 2012 at Dadi commenced on February 24, 2012, focusing on underground drifting (face drilling) and underground drilling. Twelve underground drill holes have been completed with a total drilling length of 1,039 meters. In addition, underground drifting, including transverse drifts at the 1,350m level and in tunnel PD4, was also completed. The total tunneling length was 692.8 meters, including transverse drifts and transportation tunnels. At present, 149 samples from drill core and channel sampling within the transverse drifts have been analyzed.
Twelve underground drill holes and six underground transverse drifts were completed to define mineralization zones I, II and IV. A total of five mineralization zones have been discovered at Dadi, of which, zones I, II and IV haven been the main targets for this year’s exploration work.
Samples were collected from drill holes and transverse drifts at Dadi: three transverse drifts at 1,350 meters showed silver-lead-zinc mineralization in mineralization zone II; and one transverse drift revealed silver-lead-zinc mineralization in mineralization zone IV. Three underground drill holes showed silver-lead-zinc mineralization.
According to assay results, four of the completed underground drill holes (ZK0808, ZK0308, ZK0702, and ZK0901) have revealed significant Silver-Lead-Zinc mineralization.
The four underground drill holes located in the 1,384m level PD1 tunnel at exploration lines No. 3, No. 7 and No. 9 at Dadi further define mineralization zones I and II, at deeper levels.
Two mineralized intervals at Dadi have been discovered at the underground drill hole ZK0808: azimuth 220°, dip angle 86°, drilling length 120m. One is from 61.5m to 63.0m interval and the second interval is from 97.5m to 100.5m.
Four intervals at Dadi hit silver, lead and zinc mineralization at underground drill hole ZK0702: azimuth 220°, dip angle 85°, drilling length 71.5m; the first interval is from 58.5m to 60.0m , the second and the third intervals are from 63.0m to 66.0m, and the fourth interval is from 67.5m to 69.0m. Additionally, in intervals from 45.65m to 70.0m, the rocks are strongly altered and assay results show most of the samples reaching industrial grades or near cutoff grades of lead and zinc. These results demonstrate a concentration of lead and zinc mineralization.
Three samples taken at Dadi from intervals from 56.4m to 60.6m, at underground drill hole ZK0901: azimuth 220°, dip angle 87°, drilling length 72m show relatively strong zinc mineralization and weak silver and lead mineralization.
Based on assay results for underground dill hole ZK0308 at Dadi: azimuth 220°, dip angle 86°,drilling length 120.85m, one sample (from 84.0m to 85.5m interval) reveals mineralization.
Exploration Plans for 2013
For the fiscal year 2013, the exploration activities at the Dadi Property, have not been finalized and have yet to be approved by the board of Sino-Top, although we expect the plans to include: core drilling, trenching and tunnelling program; metallurgical study of the minerals; and additional sample testing and assaying
Laopandao Silver-Tin-Polymetallic Project
Location and Description
Located in north central Inner Mongolia in Keshiketeng County, approximately 650 kilometers north of Beijing, the Laopandao Silver-Tin-Polymetallic Project (“the “Laopandao Property”) is readily accessible by car along modern, interprovincial, multi-lane highways, secondary paved and gravel roads. Inner Mongolia is located in north-central China and covers approximately 1.183 million km2, and borders Russia and Mongolia. The geographic coordinates of the Laopandao Property are: Longitude from 117° 37’ 00” E to 117° 40’ 00” East and Latitude from 43° 31’ 00” N to 43° 37’ 00” North.
The following map illustrates the general location of the Laopandao Property and the associated mining claims:
The Laopandao Property is strategically located at the intersection of two major mineral rich metallogenic belts in northern China. The Greater Hinggan Mountain Range is a result of this dynamic junction environment. The Laopandao Property is dominantly underlain by the Upper Jurassic Baiyinggaolao Formation dacitic-tuffaceous lava, rhyolite tuff, tuffaceous sandstone and conglomerate of the Greater Hinggan Mountain Range. The principal host rocks for the mineralization on the Property are dacitic-tuffaceous lava, dacitic tuff and granite.
The Laopandao Property is without known reserves.
An explosives magazine was newly built in 2011. Gravel and dirt roads have been constructed on the property and are in good condition. A total of 2,800 meters of tunneling have been completed. The total cost incurred to date by Sino-Top on exploration of Laopandao is RMB19.2million. While Sino-Top has not yet approved the budget for 2013, the Company anticipates that approximately RMB1,580,000 may be spent on Laopandao in 2013. This is with respect to the mining license application. The source of power is on-site diesel generators. Water is transported from local water supply to the project by tankers.
Geology and Mineralization
In the Laopandao Project area, faults are well developed and control not only the formation, distribution and spatial shape of magmatic rocks, but also the formation and distribution of mineral deposits. In particular, torsion and deflection of NE-trending structure provides the space for mineral formation, especially the junction of numerous structures; the intersection part of rhombus faulted blocks is a favorable place for mineral deposition.
Faults are well developed in the Anomaly 95 area. The prominent regional north-northeasterly trending faults are not mineralized; however, the north-northwesterly trending, and dominantly control the mineral deposition in the area and on the Property.
Hydrothermal tin-polymetallic fracture filling and disseminated mineralization in granite prophyry occur on the Laopandao Property. The hydrothermal tin-polymetallic mineralization consists of marcasite, arsenopyrite, chalcopyrite, chalcocite, tetrahedrite, pyrrhotite, cassiterite, argentite, sphalerite and native silver. Occasionally, limonite fills the fissure on the shallow surface and replaces arsenopyrite and pyrite. Metallic minerals vary irregularly along the dip and strike. However, there is no obvious difference between mineral combination and content. Gangue minerals are mainly composed of feldspar, quartz, sericite, carbonate and minor tourmaline.
Major elements in the sulphide bodies include Ag, Cu and Sn, with minor Au, As, Mo and Sb. The structure and texture is hypidiomorphic, allotriomorphic granular or irregular and granular cataclastic textures, and sparse, dense or strip-like dissemination or scattered or massive structures. The disseminated mineralization include cassiterite, arsenopyrite, chalcopyrite, pyrrhotite, magnetite, pyrite, silver tetrahedrite, tennantite and anatase. Tin is the major element and ranges from 0.1% to 34.08% with minor Ag, Cu, As, Mo and Sb. The gangue minerals mainly include quartz, acid plagioclase, feldspar, biotite, fluorite and tourmaline.
Anomaly 95 has been the primary focus of the exploration activity over the years. This anomaly contains Zone I, Zone II and Zone III. Each structure contains mineralized pods or lenses of fracture filling type massive sulphide mineralization, which is shown in the following diagram:
Zone I Mineralization
Hosted by the volcanic sequence of the Baiyingaolao Formation, Zone I strikes WNW and dips 75° to 80° NNE. The structure has been exposed along strike by trenching, intersected in diamond drill holes and exposed underground as being approximately 540m long, 100m wide and has been traced by diamond drilling to a depth of 300m. HIC has identified seven mineralized bodies hosted by this structure. The alteration consists of chloritization, silicification, argillization, fluoritization, limonitization and tourmalinization, with minor pyritization.
Zone II Mineralization
Zone II is hosted by the volcanic Baiyingaolao Formation and is located approximately 150m south-southwest of Zone I. Zone II strikes WNW and dips 75° to 80° NNE. The structure has been exposed along strike by trenching and intersected in diamond drill holes as being approximately 200 long, 250 wide and has been traced by diamond drilling to a depth 300m. HIC has identified three mineralized bodies hosted by this structure. The bodies are parallel features approximately 50m apart; each has parallel zones of mineralization hanging wall and footwall of the Zone. The alteration consists of chloritization, silicification, argillization, fluoritization, limonitization and tourmalinization, with minor pyritization. Further work is required on this Zone to determine its potential.
Zone III Mineralization
Zone III is located in the southern portion of Anomaly 95 and is hosted by the marginal-phase Granite Porphyry-Late Yanshanian Period (γπ53). This Zone strike East-West and is comprised of twenty-one (21) parallel tin polymetallic mineralized lenses which has been exposed in trenching, drill holes and underground. The lenses have been traced along strike for 300m being exposed in trenches and intersected in drill holes. The lenses dip variably to the north at between 31° and 73°. In general the dips are steeper in the upper portion of the hole and tend to flatten at depth.
In the 15 drill holes which defined Zone III, there is locally intense mineralization, particularly in the line 304 in the east, and the alteration continues to a depth of over 400m. Alteration consists of tourmalitization, seritization and feldsparization, followed by lesser fluoritization.
Channel sampling across the mineralized zones and the enclosing hanging wall and footwall rocks was carried out under geologic control by technicians under the supervision of HIC’s geologists. The sampling channels were 10cm wide and 3cm deep and cut with a hammer and chisel. Sampling was carried out across the working face immediately following a blast or across the back or along the ribs of the drift or cross cut. Rock chip samples were also taken every 3m along the drift or cross-cut to obtain a composite 250 to 300 gram sample. One rock chip sample was taken every 1m² along the main haulage adit.
Mining Claims
The Laopandao Property comprises one exploration license, T15120090702032551, covering 33.67 square kilometers. The license is valid from June 30, 2012 to June 30, 2014 and is renewable by way of an application. The exploration license is owned by Inner Mongolia Guangda Mining, Ltd. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Sino-Top). It grants the right to detailed exploration over an area of 33.67 square kilometers in Keshiketeng County, Inner Mongolia. The registrant must file annual geological reports with the local land and resources administration at year end. Prior to expiration of the exploration license, which is usually valid for two years, the registrant can apply for license renewal, which requires relevant materials to be presented in order to show that the stage of exploration work on the property is further advanced. Stages of exploration work advance from reconnaissance, general exploration, detailed exploration and prospecting. If the registrant cannot fully complete the necessary exploration work on the property due to geological conditions, the registrant has one chance to apply for the license renewal at the same stage of exploration. The materials required to be presented to the Land and Resources Department include renewal application, property location map, exploration license, opinions from the local government, exploration work design/contracts, qualification certificates of contractors, source of project funds, annual exploration reports reviewed/approved by the local land and resources administration, financial reports on exploration expenses, and the exploration work summary/plan. While the Company anticipates that the license renewal request will be approved, there can be no assurances.
There are no environmental liabilities, royalties, back-in rights or other payments known to us to which the Laopandao Property is subject, and there are no other significant factors known to us that may affect access, title, or the right or ability to perform work on the Laopandao Property.
The exploration program, as conducted from 2005 through present day, has been carried out by HIC under a contract with Sino-Top.
History of Operations
The following summarizes the history of the exploration activity on the Laopandao Property from 1960 to the present.
1960-1980
During the 1960s, an airborne magnetometer survey was carried over Keshiketeng County as part of the regional mapping program. Subsequent prospecting, soil geochemical surveys and geological mapping during the 1970’s and early 1980’s by North China Geological Exploration Bureau resulted in the delineation of tin-polymetallic (silver, lead and zinc) soil geochemical dispersion trains and mineral occurrences referred to as Anomaly 95, Anomaly 102 and Anomaly 104 (falls outside the Property). The anomalous areas are up to 300m wide and contain lenticular mineralized bodies ranging from 1 to 7m wide.
1985-1986
Follow-up trenching and sampling during this period resulted in the discovery of 37 tin occurrences. Exploration on the Laopandao Property was suspended from 1986 until 2004.
After almost two decades of inactivity, Sino-Top acquired the Laopandao Property.
During the 2005 exploration season, HIC, on behalf of Sino-Top, completed follow-up magnetometer and electromagnetic surveys, reconnaissance geological mapping and soil geochemical profiling over the known tin occurrences. The results of the work further defined Anomaly 95 and Anomaly 104.
The 2006 exploration program focused on the Anomaly 95. The work associated therewith included preliminary geological mapping (1:5000), soil geochemical profiling, IP and resistivity profiling, two diamond drill holes totaling 3,265m and underground exploration, mapping and sampling on the PD6 adit.
During 2007, the exploration program at the Laopandao Property continued to focus on Anomaly 95. HIC completed reconnaissance prospecting and detailed exploration, consisting of preliminary geological mapping (1: 5000), topographic mapping (1: 2000), geological mapping (1: 2000), random primary litho-geochemical halo mapping (1: 5000), soil geochemical and geophysical profiling (1: 2000), 11,613 metres of diamond drilling in 7 holes and underground exploration, mapping and sampling (PD2 Adit). Geological mapping and reconnaissance soil geochemical sampling was also carried out on Anomaly 102 and Anomaly 104.
Detailed exploration of Anomaly 95 identified three prominent mineralized structures hereafter referred to as (“Zone 1”, “Zone II” and “Zone III”). Each such zone contains a number of lenticular mineralized bodies- lenses. Zone I contains 7 lenses, Zone II contains 16 lenses and Zone III contains 15 mineralized lenses, for a total of 38 mineralized bodies.
During the 2008 exploration season, HIC carried out prospecting and detailed surveys over Anomaly 95 completing a soil geochemical survey (1: 2000), a reconnaissance and detailed Induced Polarization (“IP”) surveys, 501 metres of diamond drilling in 1 hole and 217 metres of underground exploration extending the PD6 adit for a total of 1,617m and PD3 adit for a total of 1,468m.
The North China Geological Bureau continued to focus on Anomaly 95, completing detailed exploration of Zone I and Zone II, as well as reconnaissance exploration on Zone III and confirmation of Anomaly 102. This work included a topographic survey (1:2000) and preliminary geological survey (1: 2000), continued underground exploration and surface diamond drilling. Further work was also carried out on Anomaly 102, which included underground infrastructure construction and a deep penetrating IP survey.
Advanced geological exploration work was continued and the exploration targets were focused on mineralization Zone I and Zone III. The exploration consisted of 11 drill holes (4,696 m), 634m tunneling, and an additional geophysical survey.
In 2011, the exploration work focused on mineralization Zone III and included 308 meters tunneling, 192 pieces of sampling and assaying, as well as hydrogeological, engineering, geological, and environmental surveys within the Laopandao Property demonstrating a potential viable operation
In 2012, Beijing Longxing Shengxuan Technology Investment Co., Ltd. was commissioned by Sino-Top to conduct metallurgic tests on Mineralization Zones I, II and III of Laopandao Sn-Polymetallic Property.
A summary of the metallurgic test on Mineralization Zones I and II of Laopandao Sn-Polymetallic Property is as follows:
The metallurgic test mainly involves Cu and Ag recovery. The major metallic minerals include chalcopyrite, tetrahedrite and arsenopyrite, followed by sphalerite, galena, pyrite, native bismuth, bismuthinite, cassiterite, wolframite, etc. Gangue minerals are mainly quartz, feldspar, mica, followed by kaolinite, apatite, rutile, xenotime, zircon, etc. The results of chemical phase analysis show that most of Cu and Ag elements exist in Cu-bearing sulfide, which is favorable for the recovery of copper and silver.
The challenge of this metallurgic test is the high content of arsenic in the mineral. Arsenic is mainly in the form of arsenopyrite, but the arsenic-bearing tetrahedrite is the major obstacle that impedes the effort of separating arsenic from Cu concentrate. In order to improve the sale of the Cu (Ag) concentrate, the arsenic content in the concentrate should be reduced as much as possible. During the test, we applied coarse grinding to separate Cu and Ag and processed the coarse concentrate to further reduce the content of arsenic in Cu/Ag concentrate.
A summary of the metallurgic test on Mineralization Zone III of Laopandao Sn-Polymetallic Property is as follows:
The results of chemical phase analysis show that tin mineralization mainly exists in cassiterite. The major metallic minerals include cassiterite, limonite, pyrite, arsenopyrite, etc. Gangue minerals are mainly quartz, white mica, feldspar, chlorite, rutile, zircon, monazite, xenotime, etc. Cassiterite in the mineral form ranges in size from micrograined to fine granular. Due to poor floatability of cassiterite and its fine-grained granularity, and the complexity of the minerals that affect cassiterite recovery by gravity separation method, the recovery of cassiterite is complicated.
The mineral contains iron-bearing minerals in high specific gravity. First, we extracted iron-bearing minerals by coarse grinding and magnetic separation method (60% at -0.074mm level); then we processed the magnetic separation tailings by gravity separation method in two categories ( +0.037mm and -0.037mm), so that cassiterite at +0.037mm level can be recovered well and that of -0.037mm level recovered to the greatest extent. The mineral contains pyrite and arsenopyrite, which gather and concentrate with cassiterite during gravity separation, resulting in heavy contents of sulfur and arsenic. Thus we conducted reverse flotation to separate sulfur and arsenic from Sn concentrate and eventually obtained qualified Sn concentrate.
Exploration Plans for 2013
As of the filing of this report, exploration plans at Laopandao have not been finalized and have yet to be approved by the board of Sino-Top, although we expect the plans to include: core drilling, trenching and tunnelling program; metallurgical study of the minerals; and additional sample testing and assaying
Aobaotugounao
The Aobaotugounao silver-polymetallic property (“Aobaotugounao” or the “Aobaotugounao Property”) is owned by Sino-Top, in which the Company owns a 40% equity interest.
The Aobaotugounao Property is exploratory in nature and without known reserves.
Location and Description
The following map illustrates the general location of the Aobaotugounao property and the associated mining claims:
Located in north central Inner Mongolia in Keshiketeng County, approximately 650 kilometres north of Beijing, the Aobaotugounao Project is readily accessible by car along modern, inter-provincial, multi-lane highways, secondary paved and gravel roads. Inner Mongolia is located in north-central China and covers approximately 1.183 million km2, and borders Russia and Mongolia. It is approximately 9km northwest of Tongxing Township, Keshiketeng County, Inner-Mongolia. Modern multi-lane divided highways provide excellent access to within nine kilometers of the Property, and then it is accessible through gravel and dirt roads. Its geographic coordinates are: E 117o33'00" -117o38'00", N43o47'00"-43o50'00" covering a total area of 21.07 km2.
Geologically, it is characterized by a hydrothermal vein Ag-polymetallic deposit within Jurassic volcanic series. Major alterations are limonitization, siliconization, chloritization and fluoritization. Exposed geological layers are of upper and central Jurassic acidic lava and clasolite, with intercalations of slates and marble, with intrusion of granite porphyry of late Yanshan stage and strong sericite and silican mineralization as well as carbonation and skarnization. The region has several developed fault structures. The mineralization of the region is typical of skarnization which is developed along the faults and marble regions, with two mineralized zones.
Gravel and dirt roads have been constructed on the property and are in good condition. The source of power is on-site diesel generators. Water is transported from local water supply to the project by tankers.
Geology and Mineralization
Regional Geology
Geologically, it is characterized by a hydrothermal vein Ag-polymetallic deposit within Jurassic volcanic series. Major alterations are limonitization, siliconization, chloritization and fluoritization.
Exposed geological layers are of upper and central Jurassic acidic lava and clasolite, with intercalations of slates and marble, with intrusion of granite porphyry of late Yanshan stage and strong sericite and silican mineralization as well as carbonation and skarnization. The region has several developed fault structures.
Local and Property Geology
The mineralization of the region is typical of skarnization which is developed along the faults and marble regions, with two mineralized zones.
The main exposed rocks in the property are Upper Jurassic Manketouebo Formation (J3m) volcanic lava and pyroclastic rock series, and the typical rocks are rhyolitic crystal tuff, tuffaceous lava and rhyolite.
Mining Claims
The Aobaotugounao Property comprises one exploration license, T15120100202039374. The exploration license is under the name of Sino-Top. It grants the right to detailed exploration over an area of 21.07 square kilometers in Keshiketeng county, Inner Mongolia. The validity period is from January 15, 2013 to January 14, 2015. The registrant of the license must file annual geological reports with the local land and resources administration at year end. Prior to expiration of the license, which is usually valid for two years, the registrant can apply for license renewal, which requires relevant materials to be presented in order to show that the stage of exploration work on the property is further advanced. Stages of exploration work advance from reconnaissance, general exploration, detailed exploration and prospecting. If the registrant cannot fully complete the necessary exploration work on the property due to geological conditions, the registrant has one opportunity to apply for the license renewal at the same stage of exploration. The application materials for renewal presented to the Land and Resources Department include property location map, exploration license, opinions from the local government, exploration work design/contracts, qualification certificates of contractors, source of project funds, annual exploration reports reviewed/approved by the local land and resources administration and financial reports. While management expects that the license will be renewed following application, there can be no assurance thereof.
There are no environmental liabilities, royalties, back-in rights or other payments known to us to which the Aobaotugounao Property is subject, and there are no other significant factors or risks known to us that may affect access, title, or the right or ability to perform work on the property.
History of Operations
Sino-Top has conducted exploration on the property since 2005. As of 2008, major exploration activities, including geological mapping, surface trenching and soil geochemical surveying were concentrated in the northeast part of the property. A total of 16 alteration zones with limonitization and silicification are found. Along the alteration zones, assay results of the pickup sampling show no significant mineralization of silver, lead and zinc. However, part of assay results of the alteration zones shows near industrial mineralization of silver, lead, and zinc, which indicate a potential to find mineralized bodies with industrial value within the alteration zones. The soil geochemical survey results show that, in northeast and southwest parts of the working area, at least two NW trended anomaly zones can be identified. The geochemical anomalies consist of silver, lead, zinc, copper and tin associations; as well as other associations, indicating hydrothermal mineralization in the area. The occurrences of the geochemical anomaly zones coincide with those of the alteration zones.
Prior to 2005 only minimal surface sampling and mapping were conducted at the Aobaotugounao property.
From 2005 to 2010 surface and trenching samples were collected and analyzed to identify any alteration zones with further geological mapping and soil geochemical surveying conducted.
In 2011, more surface samples along the alteration zones were collected and analyzed. The results show several samples contain near mineralization of silver, lead and zinc. Sample AH017, collected within surface trench TC2, has silver content, which indicates the existence of silver mineralized bodies with economic values.
Two drill holes, at exploration lines 15 and 11, have been operated and completed to test NW trending alteration zone and geochemical anomalies. The assay results of drill cores show that both drill holes hit industrial Ag-Pb-Zn mineralization intervals.
In 2012, HIC completed exploration projects on the property. The main tasks of the exploration were to operate advanced geological mapping of the whole property area and to detect mineralization zones I and II in northern part of the property by trenching and drilling with 100m × 100m exploratory grid in order to obtain mineralization of silver, lead and zinc.
The exploration projects completed in 2012 include 14 drill holes and one surface trenching. The exploration work was focused on Ag-Pb-Zn mineralization zone no. I (particularly zone 1), which was discovered by geophysical and geochemical detection, surface trenches, and 4 drill holes in 2011. The following table shows detailed exploration items of 2012. As a result, a total of 12 Ag-Pb-Zn mineral zones and mineralized bodies have been identified in the property.
Exploration Plans for 2013
As of the filing of this report, exploration plans at Aobaotugounao have not been finalized and have yet to be approved by the board of Sino-Top, although we expect the plans to include: core drilling, trenching and tunnelling program; a metallurgical study of the minerals; and additional sample testing and assaying.
Other Properties
The following properties, which have no known reserves and are exploratory in nature, were not explored during 2012, and the plans for exploration in 2013 are pending Sino-Top board approval. Although there may be historical exploration activity for these properties, they are immaterial. The properties are as follows:
Yuanlinzi Beishan
Located in Keshiketeng County, Inner Mongolia, China the property is 5,120 hectares (12,652 acres).
Identified commodities are silver and tin. The Company has a 40% interest in this property through its Sino-Top joint venture.
The exploration license is held by HIC for the benefit of Sino-Top. It grants the right to detailed exploration over an area of 51.2 square kilometers in Keshiketeng County, Inner Mongolia. The validity period is from June 30, 2011 to June 30, 2013.
Shididonggou
Located in Keshiketeng County, Inner Mongolia, China the property is 311 hectares (768 acres).
Identified commodities are silver lead and zinc. The Company has a 40% interest in this property through its Sino-top joint venture. Sino-Top owns the exploration rights for this property.
The exploration license is under the name of Sino-Top. It grants the right to detailed exploration over an area of 3.11 square kilometers in Keshiketeng County, Inner Mongolia. The validity period is from April 4, 2012 to April 3, 2014.
Zhuanxinhu
Located in Keshiketeng County, Inner Mongolia, China the property is 624 hectares (1,542 acres).
Identified commodities are silver and copper. The Company has a 40% interest in this property through its Sino- top joint venture. Sino-Top owns the exploration rights for this property.
The exploration license is under the name of Sino-Top. It grants the right to detailed exploration over an area of 6.24 square kilometers in Keshiketeng County, Inner Mongolia. The validity period is from April 4, 2012 to April 3, 2014.
Item 3.