ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES.
The following is a summary description of the Property and Equipment leases as of December 31, 1997.
(1) The property is owned jointly between CFCP LPIII and LPIV. LPIV owns 34.375% of the total assets. (2) Rent Increase equals the lesser of CPI or 10%. (3) Rate of increase calculated on a compounded annual basis.
REAL ESTATE
Boston Market Restaurant, Rochester, Minnesota (Land and Building): On March 10, 1997 the Partnership acquired the land and 3,035 square foot building comprising a Boston Market restaurant located at 1201 S. Broadway, Rochester, Minnesota (the "Minnesota Property"). The Minnesota Property was constructed for its present use in November of 1995 and was fully operational at the time of the purchase. The Minnesota Property was purchased from, and leased back to Finest Foodservice L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company ("Finest Foodservice"). Finest Foodservice operates casual dining restaurants under the primary trade name of Boston Market. The Partnership purchased the Minnesota Property for a purchase price of $964,000.
Finest Foodservice and the Partnership have entered into a lease (the "Finest Foodservice Lease"), which is an absolute net lease, whereby Finest Foodservice is responsible for all expenses related to the Minnesota Property, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance and repair costs. The Finest Foodservice Lease term expires on April 1, 2012 with five renewal options of five years each. Annual rental in the five years is $101,220 and is increased by ten percent every five years therafter. During the Finest Foodservice Lease years 31-40, the annual rent will be determined by the fair market value at the beginning of the 31st and 36th Finest Foodservice Lease years.
Beginning in the sixth lease year, and in addition to the annual rental provided above, Finest Foodservice will pay percentage rent on an annual basis equal to the difference between five percent of "gross sales" (as defined in the Finest Foodservice Lease) during such lease year less the annual rental payable for such lease year.
Boston Chicken, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Option Holder"), has an option to purchase and first right of refusal to purchase the Minnesota Property. The Option Holder has the right to purchase the Minnesota Property on the same terms and conditions as set forth in the offer or the Option Holder may elect an alternate purchase price as follows: (a) during the first and second lease years, an alternate purchase price equal to the total annual rental payable for the lease year subsequent to the lease year in which the option is exercised divided by 9.462%; (b) during the third lease year, an alternate purchase price equal to the total annual rental for the third lease year divided by 9.978%; (c) during the fourth lease year, an alternative purchase price equal to the annual rental for the fourth lease year divided by 9.785%; and (d) during the fifth lease year, an alternative purchase price equal to the annual rental for the fifth lease year divided by 9.580%.
The Option Holder has the option to purchase the Minnesota Property at the following times and option prices:
The current annual rent per square foot for the Minnesota Property is $33.35 per square foot. The depreciable basis of the Minnesota Property for federal tax purposes is $614,000 and it will be depreciated using the straight line method over 39 years, a rate of $15,744 per year. In addition, Finest Foodservice has paid to the same affiliate a closing fee equal to $4,820 as provided for in the Partnership Agreement.
The Finest Foodservice Lease contains a substitution option that provides in the event that Finest Foodservice determines the Minnesota Property is inadequate or unprofitable or is rendered unsuitable by condemnation or casualty, Finest Foodservice, subject to the Partnership's approval, may substitute another property of equal or greater current value having a Boston Market restaurant located thereon. All obligations under the Finest Foodservice Lease, including Annual Rental, percentage rent and taxes attributable to rent and the Minnesota property, are unconditionally guaranteed by Boston Chicken, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Carino's Italian Kitchen, El Paso, Texas (Land and Building): On July 25, 1997 the Partnership acquired the land and 6,257 square foot building comprising a Carino's Italian Kitchen restaurant located at 675 Sunland Park Drive, El Paso, Texas (the "Carino's Property"). The Carino's Property was constructed for its present use in 1995 and was fully operational at the time of the purchase. The Carino's Property was purchased from and leased back to Kona Restaurant Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Kona Group"). Kona Group operates casual dining restaurants under the primary trade names of Carino's Italian Kitchen and Kona Ranch Steak House. The Partnership purchased a fee simple interest in the Carino's Property for a purchase price of $1,600,000.
Kona Group and the Partnership have entered into a lease (the "Carino's Lease"), which is an absolute net lease, whereby Kona Group is responsible for all expenses related to the Carino's Property including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance and repair costs. The Carino's Lease term expires on July 31, 2014 with one renewal option of six years and one renewal option of seven years. The rent in the first three years of the Carino's Lease is $176,000 per year, or $14,667 per month. The annual rent will increase by five percent (5%) on the August 1, 2000 and every three years thereafter.
Kona Group has an option to purchase the Carino's Property during the sixty-first (61st) full month of the Carino's Lease. In the event that Kona Group elects to exercise the option to purchase in the sixty-first full month of the Carino's Lease, the option price is $1,940,400.
The current annual rent per square foot for the Carino's Property is $28.13 per square foot. The depreciable basis of the Carino's Property for federal tax purposes is $500,000 and it will be depreciated using the straight line method over 39 years, a rate of $12,821 per year.
Golden Corral Restaurant, Lakeland, Florida (Land and Building): On July 25, 1997, the Partnership acquired an undivided 34.375% interest as a tenant in common with Captec Franchise Capital Partners L.P. III, a Delaware limited partnership and affiliate of the Managing General Partner ("Captec III"), in the land and 8,825 square foot building located at 4532 South Florida Avenue, Lakeland, Florida (the "Lakeland Property"). The Lakeland Property was constructed for its present
use in May of 1997 and leased to Corral South Store 3, Inc., a Florida corporation ("Corral South 3"). Corral South 3 operates casual dining restaurants under the primary trade name of Golden Corral Restaurants. Captec III purchased the Lakeland Property for a total purchase price of $1,600,000 and sold the 34.375% interest to the Partnership for $550,000.
Corral South 3 and Captec III have entered into a lease (the "Corral South 3 Lease"), which is an absolute net lease, whereby Corral South 3 is responsible for all expenses related to the Lakeland Property including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance and repair costs. The Corral South 3 Lease term commenced on June 1, 1997 and expires fifteen years thereafter. The Corral South 3 Lease has two renewal options of five years each. The initial annual rent is $174,400, or $14,533 per month, and increases by 8% on the five-year anniversary of the Corral South 3 Lease and every five years thereafter (including any renewal options). The Partnership's pro-rata share of the initial annual rent will be $59,950 or $4,996 per month. The total initial annual rent per square foot on the Lakeland Property is $19.76. The depreciable basis of the Lakeland Property for federal tax purposes is $1,080,000 and it will be depreciated using the straight line method over 39 years, a rate of $27,692 per year. The Partnership's pro-rata share of depreciation will be $9,519 per year.
The obligations under the Corral South 3 Lease are guaranteed for the benefit of the Partnership by David C. Brown, an individual. David C. Brown is the sole stockholder of Corral South 3. Corral South 3 has an option to purchase the Lakeland Property commencing on the sixty-first month of the Corral South 3 Lease. In the event that Corral South 3 elects to exercise the option to purchase, the option price shall be $1,833,520.
Blockbuster Video, Riverdale, Georgia (Land and Building): On August 8, 1997 the Partnership acquired the land and 6,500 square foot building comprising a Blockbuster Video located at 8529 Georgia Highway 85, Riverdale, Georgia (the "Blockbuster Property"). The Blockbuster Property was constructed for its present use in 1995 and was fully operational at the time of the purchase. The Blockbuster Property was purchased from Atlantis Properties, L.L.C., a Georgia limited liability company ("Atlantis Properties"), for a purchase price of $1,114,286.
The Partnership purchased the Blockbuster Property subject to a lease dated April 4, 1997 (the "Blockbuster Lease") between Atlantis Properties and Blockbuster Videos, Inc., a Texas corporation ("Blockbuster"), which is a net lease, whereby Blockbuster is responsible for most expenses related to the Blockbuster Property including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance and repair costs, except that the Partnership will be responsible for the repair and maintenance of the structural systems including the roof, load-bearing walls and floor slabs and exterior masonry walls and foundations. The Blockbuster Lease term expires on June 30, 2007 with three renewal options of five years each. The annual rental is payable according to the following schedule:
Viacom International, Inc., a Delaware corporation, unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed the full and complete performance of the Blockbuster Lease.
The current annual rent per square foot for the Blockbuster Property is $18.15 per square foot. The depreciable basis of the Blockbuster Property for federal tax purposes is $754,286 and it will be depreciated using the straight line method over 39 years, a rate of $19,341 per year.
Hollywood Video, Hamilton, Ohio (Land and Building): On October 14, 1997, the Partnership acquired the land and 7,488 square foot building comprising a Hollywood Video located at 1491 Main Street, Hamilton, Ohio (the "Hollywood Video Property"). The Hollywood Video Property was constructed for its present use in 1997 and was fully operational at the time of the purchase. The Hollywood Video Property was purchased from Blue Freedom Holdings, LLC, a Kentucky limited liability company, and leased to Hollywood Entertainment Corporation, an Oregon corporation ("Hollywood Entertainment"). The Partnership purchased a fee simple interest in the Hollywood Video Property for a purchase price of $1,386,000
The Partnership purchased the property subject to a lease between Blue Freedom Holdings, LLC and Hollywood Entertainment which commenced on July 24, 1997 (the "Hollywood Video Lease"). The Hollywood Video Lease is an absolute net lease, whereby Hollywood Entertainment is responsible for all expenses related to the Hollywood Video Property including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance and repair costs. The Hollywood Video Lease term expires on July 30, 2012 with three renewal options of five years each. The rent in the first through fifth years of the Hollywood Video Lease is $152,418 per year, or $12,701.50 per month. The annual rent will be adjusted on the first day of the sixty-first month and every sixty months thereafter by the lesser of the Percentage CPI Increase, as defined in the Hollywood Video Lease, or ten percent (10%).
The current annual rent per square foot for the Hollywood Video Property is $20.35 per square foot. The depreciable basis of the Hollywood Video Property for federal tax purposes is $811,000 and it will be depreciated using the straight line method over 39 years, a rate of $20,795 per year.
EQUIPMENT
Applebee's Neighborhood Grill & Bar Equipment, Midvale, Utah: On March 31, 1997, the Partnership acquired, effective as of February 20, 1997, restaurant equipment (the "Applebee's Equipment") to be used in the operation of an Applebee's Neighborhood Grill & Bar, located at 7045 South 1300 East, Midvale, Utah for $402,000.00. The Applebee's Equipment was acquired from Captec Financial Group, Inc. ("Captec"), an affiliate of the General Partners, which purchased the Applebee's Equipment from various vendors for a total cost of $402,000 and leased it to J.M.C. Limited Partnership, a Utah limited partnership, DBA Applebees ( "JMC"). JMC and Captec entered into the Partnership's standard form of lease dated March 1, 1997 (the "JMC Lease"). The Partnership's standard form of equipment lease provides that the tenant is responsible for all expenses related to such equipment, including taxes, insurance, maintenance and repair costs. JMC owns and operates the Applebee's Neighborhood Grill & Bar restaurant under a franchise agreement.
On March 31, 1997, Captec assigned the JMC Lease to the Partnership, effective as of February 20, 1997. The lease term is 84 months and the annual rent is $82,056 payable in monthly installments of $6,838. The annual rent remains fixed for the entire JMC Lease term. The JMC Lease is guaranteed by John B. Prince, an individual, and William Tell, Inc., a Utah corporation. At the end of the JMC Lease term, upon at least 90 days prior irrevocable notice to the Partnership, JMC may purchase the Equipment for the lesser of fair market value or $40,200.
Black-Eyed Pea Equipment, Plano, Texas: On April 3, 1997, the Partnership acquired restaurant equipment (the "Black-Eyed Pea Equipment") to be used in the operation of a Black-Eyed Pea restaurant located at 1905 Preston Road, Plano, Texas for $350,000. The Black-Eyed Pea Equipment was acquired from DenAmerica Corp., which purchased the Black-Eyed Pea Equipment from various vendors for a total cost of $350,000. The Partnership leased the Black-Eyed Pea Equipment to DenAmerica Corporation, a Georgia corporation d/b/a Black-Eyed Pea ("DenAmerica"), by entering into a lease dated as of April 15, 1997 (the "DenAmerica Lease") with DenAmerica on the Partnership's standard form of equipment lease. DenAmerica operates and franchises restaurants under the primary trade names of Denny's and Black-Eyed Pea.
The lease term is 84 months and the minimum annual rent is $70,392 payable in monthly installments of $5,866. The annual rent remains fixed for the entire DenAmerica Lease term. At the end of the DenAmerica Lease term, upon at least 90 days prior irrevocable notice to the Partnership, DenAmerica may purchase the Black-Eyed Equipment for its fair market value at the date of the exercise of the option. The Partnership consented to a sublease between DenAmerica and Texas BEP., LP., a Texas limited partnership, on the same terms and conditions as the DenAmerica Lease. DenAmerica remains the obligor under the DenAmerica Lease.
Jacksonville Shells Seafood Equipment, Jacksonville, Florida: On May 27,1997, the Partnership acquired restaurant equipment to be used in the operation of a Shells Seafood Restaurant, located at 9965 San Jose Blvd., Jacksonville, Florida (the "Jacksonville Shells Equipment"). The Jacksonville Shells Equipment was purchased from various vendors for a total cost of $118,658.30 and leased to Shells Seafood Restaurants, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Shells Seafood"). Shells Seafood owns and operates Shells Seafood Restaurants.
The Partnership and Shells Seafood entered into the Partnership's standard form of equipment lease commencing on June 1, 1997 (the "Jacksonville Shells Seafood Lease"). The lease term is 60 months and the minimum annual rent is $31,781 payable in monthly installments of $2,648. The annual rent remains fixed for the entire Jacksonville Shells Seafood Lease term. At the end of the Jacksonville Shells Seafood Lease term, upon at least 90 days prior irrevocable notice to the Partnership, Shells Seafood may purchase the Jacksonville Shells Equipment for $11,866.
Shells Seafood Equipment, Winter Haven, Florida: On May 27,1997, the Partnership acquired restaurant equipment to be used in the operation of a Shells Seafood Restaurant, located at 1551 3rd Street, SW, Winter Haven, Florida (the "Winter Haven Shells Equipment"). The Winter Haven Shells Equipment was purchased from various vendors for a total cost of $93,460 and leased to Shells Seafood.
The Partnership and Shells Seafood entered into the Partnership's standard form of equipment lease commencing on June 1, 1997 (the "Winter Haven Shells Seafood Lease"). The lease term is 60 months and the minimum annual rent is $25,032 payable in monthly installments of $2,086 on the 1st day of each month. The annual rent remains fixed for the entire Winter Haven Shells Lease term. At the end of the Winter Haven Shells Seafood Lease term, upon at least 90 days prior irrevocable notice to the Partnership, Shells Seafood may purchase the Winter Haven Shells Equipment for $9,346.
Golden Corral Equipment, Temple Terrace, Florida: On June 4,1997, the Partnership acquired restaurant equipment to be used in the operation of a Golden Corral Restaurant located at 11801 56th Street North, Temple Terrace, Florida (the "Golden Corral Equipment"). The Golden Corral Equipment was purchased from various vendors for a total cost of $506,198 and leased to Corral South Store 4,
Inc. a Florida corporation dba Golden Corral Restaurant ("Corral South 4"). Corral South 4 owns and operates the Golden Corral Restaurant under a franchise agreement.
The Partnership and Corral South 4 entered into the Partnership's standard form of equipment lease commencing on June 15, 1997 (the "Corral South 4 Lease"). The lease term is 60 months and the annual rent is $131,207 payable in monthly installments of $10,934 on the 15th day of each month. The annual rent remains fixed for the entire Golden Corral Lease term. All obligations under the Corral South 4 Lease are guaranteed by David C. Brown, an individual. At the end of the Corral South 4 Lease term, upon at least 90 days prior irrevocable notice to the Partnership, Corral South 4 may purchase the Golden Corral Equipment for $1.00
Arby's Equipment Pasco, Washington: On June 25,1997, the Partnership acquired restaurant equipment to be used in the operation of an Arby's restaurant, located at 2411 West Court, Pasco, Washington (the "Arby's Equipment"). The Arby's Equipment was acquired from various vendors for a total cost of $159,470.62 and leased to Girardi-Riva Enterprises, Inc., an Arizona corporation dba Arby's Restaurant ("Girardi-Riva"). Girardi-Riva owns and operates the Arby's restaurant under a franchise agreement.
The Partnership and Girardi-Riva entered into the Partnership's standard form of equipment lease (the "Girardi-Riva Lease") commencing July 1, 1997. The lease term is 84 months and the minimum annual rent is $32,724 payable in monthly installments of $2,727. The annual rent remains fixed for the entire Girardi-Riva Lease term. All obligations under the Girardi-Riva Lease are jointly and severally guaranteed by Richard Riva, Sharri Riva, Thomas Girardi and Kathy Girardi. At the end of the Girardi-Riva Lease term, upon at least 90 days prior irrevocable notice to the Partnership, Girardi-Riva may purchase the Arby's Equipment for $1.00.
Breckenridge Brewery & Pub Equipment, Breckinridge, Colorado: On July 9, 1997, the Partnership purchased restaurant equipment to be used in the operation of an Breckenridge Brewery & Pub, located at 600 South Main, Breckenridge, Colorado (the "Breckenridge Equipment") for $791,000. The Breckenridge Equipment was acquired from, and leased back to BBI Acquisition Co., a Colorado corporation dba Breckenridge Brewery & Pub ("BBI").
The Partnership and BBI entered into the Partnership's standard form of equipment lease ("BBI Lease") commencing August 1, 1997. The lease term is 84 months and the minimum annual rent is $163,262 payable in monthly installments of $13,605.20. The annual rent remains fixed for the entire BBI Lease term. All obligations under the BBI Lease are unconditionally guaranteed by Breckenridge Holding Company, a Colorado corporation. At the end of the BBI Lease term, upon at least 90 days prior irrevocable notice to the Partnership, BBI may purchase the Breckenridge Equipment for $1.00.
Burger King Equipment, Colonial Heights, Virginia: On July 25,1997, the Partnership made an initial disbursement of $30,600 for restaurant equipment to be used in the operation of a Burger King restaurant, located at 401 Southpark Blvd., Colonial Heights, Virginia ("Burger King Equipment"). The final disbursement was made on November 1, 1997. The Burger King Equipment was acquired from various vendors for a total cost of $282,327 and leased to Virginia QSC, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company dba Burger King ("Virginia QSC"). Virginia QSC owns and operates the Burger King restaurant under a franchise agreement.
The Partnership and Virginia QSC entered into a Progress Payment Agreement dated July 15, 1997, ("Agreement") whereby the Partnership provided disbursements of down payments and interim payments to pay approved costs associated with the purchase of the Burger King Equipment. Virginia
QSC paid to the Partnership a daily progress rental payment for each day that any down payment and/or interim payment remained outstanding. The daily progress payment was equal to .00031944 times the total amount outstanding and was paid from July 25, 1997 to October 22, 1997. By October 22, 1997, all of the Burger King Equipment had been delivered, installed, and accepted by Virginia QSC.
The Partnership and Virginia QSC entered into the Partnership's standard form of equipment lease (the "Virginia QSC Lease") dated July 15, 1997 and amended October 22, 1997 and November 1, 1997. The base lease term is 84 months and commenced on November 1, 1997. Under the terms of the Virginia QSC Lease, the minimum annual rent is $58,340 and is payable in monthly installments of $4,862. The annual rent remains fixed for the entire Virginia QSC Lease term. All obligations under the Virginia QSC Lease are jointly and severally unconditionally guaranteed by Justin Hathaway, Steven Porath and Alan Buford, each of whom is a member of Virginia QSC. At the end of the Virginia QSC Lease term, upon at least 90 days prior irrevocable notice to the Partnership, Virginia QSC may purchase the Burger King Equipment for $1.00.
KFC Equipment, Greensburg, Pennsylvania: On October 15,1997, the Partnership acquired restaurant equipment to be used in the operation of a KFC restaurant, located at 975 E. Pittsburgh Street, Greensburg, Pennsylvania (the "KFC Equipment"). The KFC Equipment was acquired from various vendors for a total cost of $231,021 and leased to Morgan's Restaurants of Pennsylvania, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation dba KFC Restaurant ("Morgan's"). Morgan's owns and operates the KFC restaurant under a franchise agreement.
The Partnership and Morgan's entered into the Partnership's standard form of equipment lease (the "Morgan's Lease") commencing on October 15, 1997. The lease term is 84 months and the minimum annual rent is $45,188 payable in monthly installments of $3,766. The annual rent remains fixed for the entire Morgan's Lease term. All obligations under the Morgan's Lease are unconditionally guaranteed by Morgan's Foods, Inc., an Ohio corporation and parent company of Morgan's. At the end of the Morgan's Lease term, upon at least 90 days prior irrevocable notice to the Partnership, Morgan's may purchase the KFC Equipment for $1.00.
Property and Equipment Acquisitions-General
With respect to each of the Properties, an affiliate of the Managing General Partner (i) considered factors such as the potential value of the site, the financial condition and business and operating history of the tenant, and demographic data for the area in which the Property is located, (ii) analyzed demographic, geographic and market diversification data for the area in which each Property is located and reviewed an independent MAI appraisal of each Property and the analysis regarding comparable properties contained therein, and (iii) negotiated the purchase price.
The Partnership purchased each Property and Equipment package with cash from Offering proceeds. It is anticipated that each such Property and Equipment package will be leveraged as provided for in the Prospectus. However, the Partnership presently does not have a financing commitment. With respect to each of the Properties and the Equipment packages, the General Partners believe that the amount of insurance carried by each lessee is adequate. With respect to all Equipment leases, each provides that the lessee is responsible for all expenses related to the Equipment including taxes, insurance, maintenance and repair costs.
Properties will be selected for acquisition based on an examination and evaluation by the General Partners or an Affiliate of the potential value of the site, the financial condition and business
history of the proposed lessee, the demographics of the area in which the Property is located or to be located, the proposed purchase price and lease terms, geographic and market diversification, and potential operating results. Similar analysis will be utilized in selecting Equipment. In certain cases, the Partnership may become a co-venturer or general partner in a joint venture or general partnership which will own a Property or Equipment. (See discussion below.) The Partnership may also acquire Property through the acquisition of substantially all of the interests of an entity which in turn owns a Property. The Partnership may participate in sale-leaseback transactions, but expects to do so only with respect to Properties and then only when the Property has an established track record. The Partnership anticipates that only fee interests in real property will be acquired, although other interests (including acquisitions of buildings, with the underlying land being subject to a long-term ground lease) may be acquired if it is deemed to be advantageous to the Partnership. In each such case, the Partnership's cost to purchase an interest in such Property and/or Equipment would decrease and the total number of Properties and/or Equipment which the Partnership would be able to acquire will increase.
In making investments, the General Partners will consider relevant factors, including the condition and proposed use of the Property and/or Equipment, income-producing capacity, the financial condition of the lessee, and with respect to Properties, the prospects for long-term appreciation. In no event will Property or Equipment be acquired unless a satisfactory lease commitment has been obtained from a suitable lessee as further described below.
In selecting specific Properties and lessees, the General Partners generally will require the following:
(i) Base annual rent will provide a specified minimum return on the contract purchase price of the Property; the majority of the leases will provide for fixed increases on specific dates or indexation of rents to indices such as the Consumer Price Index. Leases may also provide for percentage rents calculated to provide rents equal to a percentage of the lessee's gross sales if greater than the base rent; and
(ii) The initial lease will have a term of between seven and twenty years.
In selecting specific Equipment, the General Partners typically will require the following:
(i) Full Payout Leases providing for fixed rents structured to return 100% of the cost of the Equipment plus yield a return equivalent to market interest rates over the lease term; and
(ii) The leases are expected to have terms of five to seven years with residual values of Equipment at the end of such terms expected to be minimal (approximately 10% of original cost).
The terms and conditions of any lease entered into by the Partnership with regard to a tenant may vary substantially from those described herein. However, all of the leases will be Triple Net, which means that the lessee will be required to pay all real estate and other taxes and assessments, utilities, insurance and cost of maintenance and repairs, or Double Net leases, which differs from a Triple Net Lease only in that the Partnership is responsible for the maintenance of the exterior walls and roof of the Property.
The Partnership may invest in partnerships or joint venture arrangements with persons formed by the General Partners or any of their Affiliates if all of the following conditions are met: (i) the two partnerships or entities have substantially identical investment objectives; (ii) the Partnership will not incur any duplicate property management or other fees; (iii) the compensation to the General Partners and their Affiliates must be substantially identical in both partnerships or entities; (iv) the Partnership must have a right of first refusal to buy the interest of the other joint venture partner if said other partner wishes to sell the property held by such joint venture; and (v) the investment by each such joint venture partner must be on substantially the same terms and conditions.
The Partnership may invest in partnerships or joint venture arrangements with persons other than Affiliated partnerships only under the following conditions: (a) there are no duplicate property management or other fees; (b) the investment of each entity is on substantially the same terms and conditions; (c) the Partnership obtains a controlling interest in the partnership or joint venture; and (d) the Partnership must have a right of first refusal to buy if its joint venture partner wishes to sell the Property or Equipment held in such joint venture.
In no event will the Partnership reinvest Net Sale or Refinancing Proceeds received commencing four years after the date on which the Partnership terminates its Offering. It is expected that leases of certain Properties may give the lessee the right to purchase the Property seven to ten years after the date of the lease at the Property's fair market value as determined by an independent appraisal at the time of sale. Additionally, certain leases may grant the lessee an option to purchase a percentage interest in the Property at a price based on the fair market value as determined by an independent appraisal at the time the option is exercised. The determination of whether particular Properties or Equipment should be sold or otherwise disposed of will be made after consideration of relevant factors, including performance or projected performance of the Property or Equipment and market conditions, with a view toward achieving the principal investment objectives of the Partnership.
The Partnership's general policy will be to sell Properties and/or Equipment on an all cash basis. However, under certain circumstances a purchase money obligation secured by a lien on the Property or Equipment may be taken as part payment and there are no limitations or restrictions on the Partnership taking such purchase money obligations. The terms of payment to the Partnership will be affected by custom in the area in which the Property or Equipment is located and the then prevailing economic conditions. To the extent the Partnership receives notes and other property in lieu of cash, such proceeds (other than any interest payable thereon) will be excluded from Net Sale or Refinancing Proceeds until and to the extent the notes or other property are actually paid, sold, refinanced or otherwise disposed of and, therefore, the distribution of the proceeds of a sale to the Limited Partners may be delayed until such time. In some cases, the Partnership may receive payments (cash and other property) in the year of sale in an amount less than the selling price, with subsequent payments being spread over a number of years. It is possible that such purchase money obligations would be structured to provide for a "balloon" payment of the entire balance of principal at maturity.
The Partnership intends to acquire Properties and Equipment using leverage, on a portfolio basis, of up to 35% of the sum of gross proceeds of the Offering and the aggregate amount of Partnership indebtedness secured by Partnership Assets (approximately 40% of the aggregate purchase prices of all Properties and Equipment). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Partnership may incur indebtedness on single Properties or Equipment packages equal to up to 80% of the purchase price thereof so long as aggregate portfolio indebtedness does not exceed the above-referenced amount. Borrowings for acquisition or improvement will cause tax-exempt investors to recognize unrelated business taxable income, although they will be allowed to offset such income with deductions related thereto.
ITEM 3.