Item 2. Properties.
Location and Characteristics
The Company owns oil and natural gas leases in Wyoming, Utah, and Pennsylvania. In Colorado, the Company owns oil and natural gas leases as well as fee oil and gas rights. The leases in Wyoming are primarily federal leases with 10-year lease terms until establishment of production. Production extends the lease terms until cessation of that production. In Pennsylvania, the leases are from private individuals and companies, as well as from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The leases in Utah are from private individuals and companies, the State of Utah, and the federal government with primary lease terms ranging from five to ten years until the establishment of production. In 2014, the Company sold the surface rights to its undeveloped acreage in Colorado Springs, Colorado while retaining the oil and gas rights. The Company has no immediate plans for further exploration in Colorado during 2015.
Green River Basin, Wyoming
As of December 31, 2014, the Company owned oil and natural gas leases totaling approximately 103,000 gross (67,000 net) acres in southwest Wyoming’s Green River Basin. Most of this acreage covers the Pinedale and Jonah fields. Of the total acreage position in Wyoming, approximately 29,000 gross (19,000 net) acres were developed, and 74,000 gross (48,000 net) acres were undeveloped. The developed portion represents
58% of the Company’s total developed net acreage while the undeveloped portion represents approximately 25% of the Company’s total undeveloped net acreage. The Company operates 91% of its acreage position in the Pinedale field and 82% of its production.
Lease maintenance costs in Wyoming were approximately $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The Company currently owns 73 leases totaling 89,000 gross (55,000 net) acres that are held by production and activities (“HBP”). The HBP acreage includes all of the Company’s leases within the productive area of the Pinedale and Jonah fields.
Development Wells. During 2014, the Company participated in the drilling of 121 gross (76.5 net) productive development wells on the Green River Basin properties. At year-end 2014, there were 8 gross (5.2 net) additional development wells that commenced during the year and were either still drilling or had operations suspended at a depth short of total depth.
Exploratory Wells. During 2014, the Company participated in the drilling of a total of 25 gross (13.4 net) productive exploratory wells on the Green River Basin properties. At December 31, 2014, there were 8 gross (2.2 net) additional exploratory wells that commenced during the year that were either still drilling or had operations suspended at a depth short of total depth and thus a determination of productive capability could not be made at year-end.
Seismic Activity. The Company’s 3D seismic in Wyoming covers approximately 411 square miles, which includes data recently purchased over the acquired SWEPI Properties. The data consists of both proprietary data and data licensed from independent seismic contractors, and provides coverage over the entire productive area of the Pinedale field.
Uinta Basin, Utah
As of December 31, 2014, the Company owned oil and natural gas leases covering 9,000 gross (9,000 net) acres in the Uinta Basin. This acreage is located in Uintah County in the eastern portion of the Uinta Basin. As of December 31, 2014, approximately 4,000 gross (4,000 net) acres were developed, and 5,000 gross (5,000 net) acres were undeveloped. The developed portion represents 12% of the Company’s total developed net acreage position while the undeveloped portion represents 3% of the Company’s total undeveloped net acreage position. The Company operates 100% of the properties.
Lease maintenance costs in Utah for the year ended December 31, 2014 were approximately $0.4 million. The Company owns approximately 7,000 gross (7,000 net) acres currently held by production or activities in Utah.
Exploratory Wells. During the period from the closing of the acquisition in December 2013 through December 31, 2014, the Company participated in the drilling of a total of 74 gross (74.0 net) productive exploratory wells on the Utah properties. At December 31, 2014, there were no exploratory wells that commenced during the year that were either still drilling or had operations suspended at a depth short of total depth and thus a determination of productive capability could not be made at year-end.
Seismic Activity. The Company’s 3D seismic coverage in Utah covers approximately 27 square miles, partially covering its properties.
Pennsylvania
As of December 31, 2014, the Company owned oil and gas leases covering 184,000 gross (91,000 net) acres in the Pennsylvania portion of the Appalachian Basin. This acreage is located in the heart of northeast Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale Gas Trend, principally in Lycoming, Clinton and Centre counties. Of the total
acreage position as of December 31, 2014, approximately 20,000 gross (10,000 net) acres were developed, and 164,000 gross (81,000 net) acres were undeveloped. The Company’s properties in Pennsylvania are outside operated.
Lease maintenance costs in Pennsylvania were approximately $3.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The Company owns approximately 149,000 gross (74,000 net) acres currently held by production or activities in Pennsylvania.
Development Wells. During 2014, the Company participated in the drilling of 5 gross (2.5 net) productive development wells on the Pennsylvania properties. At year-end 2014, there were no additional development wells that commenced during the year that were either still drilling or had operations suspended at a depth short of total depth.
Exploratory Wells. During the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company participated in the drilling of 1 gross (0.5 net) productive exploratory wells on the Pennsylvania properties. At December 31, 2014, there were no exploratory wells that commenced during the year that were either still drilling or had operations suspended at a depth short of total depth and thus a determination of productive capability could not be made at year-end.
Oil and Gas Reserves
The following table sets forth the Company’s quantities of proved reserves for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012. The table summarizes the Company’s proved reserves, the estimated future net revenues from these reserves and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows attributable thereto at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. As part of the SWEPI Transaction (see Note 13), the Company acquired contracts related to NGLs providing the opportunity to realize the benefit of the NGLs from the gas it produces beginning in 2017. As of December 31, 2014, proved undeveloped reserves represent 54.0% of the Company’s total proved reserves.
(1) Oil, condensate and NGLs are converted to natural gas at the ratio of one barrel of liquids to six Mcf of natural gas. This conversion ratio, which is typically used in the oil and gas industry, represents the approximate energy equivalent of a barrel of oil or condensate to an Mcf of natural gas.
(2) Management believes that the presentation of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, before income taxes, of estimated proved reserves, discounted at 10% per annum, may be considered a non-Generally Accepted Accounting Principle financial measure as defined in Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K, therefore the Company has included this reconciliation of the measure to the most directly comparable Generally Accepted Accounting Principle (“GAAP”) financial measure (standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, after income taxes). Management believes that the presentation of the standardized measure of future net cash flows before income taxes provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and gas companies. Because many factors that are unique to each individual company may impact the amount of future income taxes to be paid, the use of the pre-tax measure provides greater comparability when evaluating companies. It is relevant and useful to investors for evaluating the relative monetary significance of the Company’s oil and natural gas properties. Further, investors may utilize the measure as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of the Company’s reserves to other companies. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, before income taxes, is not a measure of financial or operating performance under GAAP, nor is it intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves owned by the Company. Standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, before income taxes, should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as defined under GAAP.
(3) As prescribed by SEC rules, our reserve estimates at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, reflect spot prices based on the average of the beginning of the month prices during the 12-month period before the ending date of the period covered by this report determined as an un-weighted, arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period.
Since January 1, 2014, no crude oil, natural gas or NGL reserve information has been filed with, or included in any report to, any federal authority or agency other than the SEC and the Energy Information Administration (“EIA”) of the U.S. Department of Energy. We file Form 23, including reserve and other information, with the EIA.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Changes in proved undeveloped reserves: Changes to the Company’s proved undeveloped reserves (PUDs) during 2014 are summarized in the table below. These changes include updates to prior PUDs, the addition of new PUDs associated with current development plans, the transfer of PUDs to unproved categories due to development plan changes, and the impact of changes in economic conditions, including changes in commodity prices. The Company’s year-end development plans and associated PUDs are consistent with SEC guidelines for PUD development within five years. The Company annually reviews all PUDs to ensure an appropriate plan for development exists. Approximately 83% of proved undeveloped locations are located in Pinedale and the remaining 17% are located in Utah.
Conversions: In 2014, the Company converted 364.2 Bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves, representing a first-year conversion rate of 21% relative to the beginning period proved undeveloped reserves. During 2014, the Company spent $308.9 million to convert proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves. Nearly all of the PUD conversions were located in the Pinedale field in Wyoming.
Additions/Extensions: In 2014, the Company’s reserve additions were primarily comprised of Pinedale drilling locations that moved into the five year proved undeveloped window. The Company also added proved undeveloped locations in Utah in 2014.
Purchases: In 2014, the Company purchased certain assets in the Pinedale field. As a result of the transaction (see Note 13 for further information), the company acquired 829.2 Bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves. The divestiture of assets in Pennsylvania did not affect proved undeveloped reserves.
Transfers: At December 31, 2014, the Company transferred 233.6 Bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves to unproven categories due to adjustments to the Company’s schedule.
Revisions: In 2014, negative revisions of 17.9 Bcfe were primarily related to infill drilling in the Pinedale field in Wyoming.
Internal Controls Over Reserve Estimating Process
Our policies and practices regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves is structured to objectively and accurately estimate our oil and gas reserve quantities and present values in compliance with the SEC’s regulations and GAAP. The Director - Reservoir Engineering & Development is primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of the Company’s reserve estimates. He has a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering and is a licensed Professional Engineer with over 13 years of experience. The Company’s internal controls over reserve estimates include reconciliation and review controls, including an independent internal review of assumptions used in the estimation as well as ultimate approval of our capital budget and review of our development plan by our senior management and Board of Directors.
The estimates of proved reserves and future net revenue as of December 31, 2014 are based upon the use of technical and economic data including, but not limited to, well logs, geologic maps, seismic data, well test data, production data, historical price and cost information and property ownership interests. The reserves were estimated using deterministic methods; these estimates were prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles. Standard engineering and geoscience methods, such as reservoir modeling, performance analysis, volumetric analysis and analogy, that were considered to be appropriate and necessary to establish reserve quantities and reserve categorization that conform to SEC definitions and rules and regulations, were also used. As in all aspects of oil and natural gas evaluation, there are uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of engineering and geoscience data; therefore, these estimates necessarily represent only informed professional judgment.
The Company engaged Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), a third-party, independent engineering firm, to prepare the reserve estimates for all of the Company’s assets for the year ended December 31, 2014 in this annual report. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company engaged NSAI to prepare the reserve estimates for all of the Company’s assets in Wyoming and Pennsylvania in this annual report. Due to the timing of the closing of the acquisition in Utah in December 2013 relative to the timing of preparing annual corporate reserves, the Company’s Reservoir Engineering Department prepared the proved reserve estimates for its Utah assets for the year ended December 31, 2013, which were prepared in accordance with the Company’s internal controls and SEC regulations and represented less than 2% of estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2013. The Company engaged NSAI to prepare the reserve estimates for all of the Company’s assets for the year ended December 31, 2012 in this annual report.
Our internal professional staff works closely with our independent engineers, NSAI, to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data that is furnished to them for their reserve estimation process. In addition, other pertinent data is provided such as seismic information, geologic maps, well logs, production tests, well performance data, operating procedures and relevant economic criteria. We make available all information requested, including our pertinent personnel, to the external engineers as part of their evaluation of our reserves. The report of NSAI is included as an Exhibit to this annual report.
The reserves estimates shown herein have been independently evaluated by NSAI, a worldwide leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations and government agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No.. Within NSAI, the technical persons primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the NSAI reserves report incorporated herein are Mr. Robert C. Barg and Mr. Phillip R. Hodgson. Mr. Barg, a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas (No. 71658), has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 1989 and has over 6 years of prior industry experience. He graduated from Purdue University in 1983 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Mechanical Engineering. Mr. Hodgson, a Licensed Professional Geoscientist in the State of Texas, Geology (No. 1314), has been practicing consulting petroleum geoscience at NSAI since 1998 and has over 14 years of prior industry experience. He graduated from University of Illinois in 1982 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Geology and from Purdue University in 1984 with a Master of Science Degree in Geophysics. Both technical principals meet or exceed the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; both are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
Production Volumes, Average Sales Prices and Average Production Costs
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the production volumes and average sales prices received for and average production costs associated with the Company’s sale of oil and natural gas for the periods indicated.
The following table sets forth the net sales volumes, operating expenses and realized natural gas prices attributable to field(s) that contain 15% or more of our total estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2014:
(a) Production costs include lifting costs and remedial workover expenses.
Delivery Commitments
With respect to the Company’s natural gas production, from time to time the Company enters into transactions to deliver specified quantities of gas to its customers. As of February 9, 2015, the Company has long-term natural gas delivery commitments of 1.2 MMMBtu in 2015, 26.2 MMMBtu in 2016, and 7.9 MMMBtu in 2017 under existing agreements. As of February 9, 2015, the Company has long-term crude oil delivery commitments of 2.4 MMBbls in 2015, 2.4 MMBbls in 2016, 1.7 MMBbls in 2017, 0.7 MMBbls in 2018 and 0.2 MMBbls in 2019 under existing agreements. None of these commitments require the Company to deliver gas or oil produced specifically from any of the Company’s properties, and all of these commitments are priced on a floating basis with reference to an index price.
These committed volumes are below the Company’s forecasted 2015 and anticipated 2016 through 2019 production from its available reserves. In addition, none of the Company’s reserves are subject to any priorities or curtailments that may affect quantities delivered to its customers, any priority allocations or price limitations imposed by federal or state regulatory agencies or any other factors beyond the Company’s control that may affect its ability to meet its contractual obligations other than those discussed in Item 1A. “Risk Factors”. The Company believes that its reserves are adequate to meet its commitments. If for some reason the Company’s production is not sufficient to satisfy its commitments, the Company expects to be able to purchase volumes in the market or make other arrangements to satisfy its commitments.
Productive Wells
As of December 31, 2014 the Company’s total gross and net wells were as follows:
* Productive wells are producing wells, shut-in wells the Company deems capable of production, wells that are waiting for completion, plus wells that are drilled/cased and completed, but waiting for pipeline hook-up. A gross well is a well in which a working interest is owned. The number of net wells represents the sum of fractional working interests the company owns in gross wells.
Oil and Gas Acreage
The primary terms of the Company’s oil and gas leases expire at various dates. Much of the Company’s undeveloped acreage is held by production, which means that the Company will maintain its rights in these leases as long as oil or natural gas is produced from the acreage by it or by other parties holding interests in producing wells on those leases. In some cases, if production from a lease ceases, the lease will expire, and in some cases, if production from a lease ceases, the Company may maintain the lease by additional operations on the acreage.
The Company does not believe the remaining terms of its leases is material. At December 31, 2014, the Company had 16,000 net acres of leases in Pennsylvania, 25,000 net acres of leases in Colorado, 400 net acres of leases in Utah and no leases in Wyoming that expire in 2015. The Company has no immediate plans for further development of the Colorado leasehold in 2015, and plans to extend or renew few if any of the 2015 expiring leases in Pennsylvania. The Company expects to maintain all of the Utah leases by production, operations, extensions or renewals. The Company does not expect to lose material lease acreage because of failure to drill due to inadequate capital, equipment or personnel. The Company has, based on its evaluation of prospective economics, allowed acreage to expire and it may allow additional acreage to expire in the future.
As of December 31, 2014 the Company had total gross and net developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas leasehold acres in the United States as set forth below.
Drilling Activities
For each of the three fiscal years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 the number of gross and net wells drilled by the Company was as follows:
Wyoming - Green River Basin
At year end, there were 8 gross (5.2 net) additional development wells that were either drilling or had operations suspended. This includes wells in both the Pinedale and Jonah fields.
At year end, there were 8 gross (2.2 net) additional exploratory wells that were either drilling or had operations suspended. This includes wells in both the Pinedale and Jonah fields.
Utah
At year end, there were no additional development wells that were either drilling or had operations suspended.
Pennsylvania
At year end, there were no additional development wells that were either drilling or had operations suspended.
At year end, there were no additional exploratory wells that were either drilling or had operations suspended.
Colorado
During 2012, the Company drilled 3 gross (3.0 net) exploratory wells on its Colorado acreage. The Company did not conduct any operations on this acreage during 2014 or 2013. During 2014, the Company sold the surface rights to its Colorado acreage and retained the mineral rights. The Company has no immediate plans for further exploration in this area during 2015.
Item 3.