Item 2. Properties.
Location and Characteristics
The Company owns oil and natural gas leases in Wyoming. The leases in Wyoming are primarily federal leases with 10-year lease terms until establishment of production. Production extends the lease terms until cessation of that production. The Company previously owned oil and natural gas leases in Utah and Pennsylvania, which the Company sold in September 2018 and December 2017, respectively.
Due to the cessation of the drilling program, the Company has no estimated PUD reserves as of December 31, 2019, with respect to its properties because it has elected not to drill new wells in the current commodity price environment. Additionally, as noted below, the Company’s has a $5 million limitation of capital expenditures per quarter as set forth in the Fifth Amendment to the Credit Agreement. The Company previously reported estimated PUD reserves in SEC filings, and, if in the future we can satisfy the reasonable certainty criteria as prescribed under the SEC requirements, we would likely record and report estimated PUD reserves in future filings.
Green River Basin, Wyoming
Acreage. As of December 31, 2019, the Company owned oil and natural gas leases totaling approximately 117,000 gross (83,000 net) acres in southwest Wyoming’s Green River Basin. Most of this acreage covers the Pinedale and Jonah fields. Of the total acreage position in Wyoming and as of December 31, 2019, approximately 45,000 gross (30,000 net) acres were developed, and 72,000 gross (53,000 net) acres
were undeveloped. The developed and undeveloped portion represents 100% of the Company’s total developed and undeveloped net acreage. The Company operates 92% of its production in the Pinedale field.
Lease maintenance costs in Wyoming were approximately $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The Company currently owns 51 leases totaling 79,000 gross (54,000 net) acres that are held by production and activities (“HBP”). The HBP acreage includes all of the Company’s leases within the productive area of the Pinedale and Jonah fields.
Development Wells. Development wells are wells that were drilled in the current year that were proved undeveloped locations in the prior year’s reserve report. During 2019, the Company participated in the drilling of 64.0 gross (51.0 net) productive development wells on the Green River Basin properties. At December 31, 2019, the Company did not have any additional development wells that commenced during the year and were either still drilling or had operations suspended at a depth short of total depth.
Exploratory Wells. Exploratory wells are wells that were drilled in the current year that were not proved undeveloped locations in the prior year’s reserve report. During 2019, the Company participated in the drilling of a total of 20.0 gross (20.0 net) productive exploratory wells on the Green River Basin properties. At December 31, 2019, there were 9.0 gross (3.8 net) exploratory wells which were suspended at a depth short of total depth and thus a determination of productive capability could not be made at year-end.
Seismic Activity. The Company owns 492 square miles of 3D seismic data in Wyoming which provides 455 square miles of coverage of the entire Pinedale Anticline and most of Jonah field. The data consists of proprietary data and data licensed from seismic contractors. During 2019, the Company completed a 40 square mile seismic inversion project to enhance the resolution and illuminate the sandstones in the Lower Lance and Mesaverde in the southern Anticline area to assist with future wellbore targeting. The Company also completed a 95 square mile 3D structural reconstruction study of the middle portion of the Pinedale Anticline that elucidates the geological structural history, trapping geometry, and fluid migration to explain variations in hydrocarbon accumulation and assist with future well planning.
Divested Assets
Uinta Basin, Utah. During the third quarter 2018, the Company sold the oil and gas properties covering approximately 8,300 gross (7,800 net) acres in the Uinta Basin in Utah for net cash proceeds of $69.3 million, including transaction fees of $0.6 million. This acreage is located in Uintah County in the eastern portion of the Uinta Basin.
Pennsylvania. During the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company sold the oil and gas leases covering 144,000 gross (72,000 net) acres in the Pennsylvania portion of the Appalachian Basin for a cash purchase price of approximately $115.0 million.
Oil and Gas Reserves
The following table sets forth the Company’s quantities of proved reserves for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. The reserve estimates were prepared by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. The table summarizes the Company’s proved reserves, the estimated future net revenues from these reserves and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows attributable thereto at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.
In 2017, the Company renegotiated its existing gas processing contracts in Wyoming. These gas processing contracts are keep-whole contracts in which the Company shares in the economic benefit of processing and accordingly does not include the NGL volumes in its reserves.
The Company’s internal controls for booking PUD reserves include testing whether the Company has the intent and financial capability to execute PUD drilling. During 2019, the Company decided to suspend its operated drilling program in the Pinedale field. This decision was based on natural gas pricing remaining near multi-year lows. As such, the Company lacks the required degree of certainty of our ability commit resources to fund the drilling of new wells in our five-year development program. As a result, we did not record any PUD reserves in the December 31, 2019 reserve report. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, proved undeveloped reserves represented 23% of the Company’s total proved reserves.
(1)
Oil, condensate and NGLs are converted to natural gas at the ratio of one barrel of liquids to six Mcf of natural gas. This conversion ratio, which is typically used in the oil and gas industry, represents the approximate energy equivalent of a barrel of oil or condensate to an Mcf of natural gas.
(2)
Management believes that the presentation of the discounted future net cash flows, before income taxes, of estimated proved reserves, discounted at 10% per annum, may be considered a non-Generally Accepted Accounting Principle financial measure as defined in Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K, therefore the Company has included this reconciliation of the measure to the most directly comparable Generally Accepted Accounting Principle (“GAAP”) financial measure (standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, after income taxes). Management believes that the presentation of the standardized measure of future net cash flows before income taxes provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and gas companies. Because many factors that are unique to each individual company may impact the amount of future income taxes to be paid, the use of the pre-tax measure provides greater comparability when evaluating companies. It is relevant and useful to investors for evaluating the relative monetary significance of the Company’s oil and natural gas properties. Further, investors may utilize the measure as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of the Company’s reserves to other companies. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, before income taxes, is not a measure of financial or operating performance under GAAP, nor is it intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves owned by the Company. Standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, before income taxes, should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as defined under GAAP.
(3)
As prescribed by SEC rules, our reserve estimates at December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, reflect reference pricing based on the average of the monthly prices during the 12-month period before the ending date of the period covered by this report determined as an un-weighted, arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period.
Since January 1, 2016, no crude oil, natural gas or NGL reserve information has been filed with, or included in any report to, any federal authority or agency other than the SEC and the Energy Information Administration (“EIA”) of the U.S. Department of Energy. We file Form 23, including reserve and other information, with the EIA.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
As previously mentioned, the Company did not include PUD reserves in its total proved reserve estimates as of December 31, 2019 due to its decision to suspend its operated drilling program.
Development plan: The development plan underlying the Company’s PUD reserves, if any, is based on the best information available at the time of adoption. Factors, such as commodity price, service costs, performance data, and asset mix, are subject to change; therefore, the Company occasionally revises its development plan. Development plan revisions include deferrals, removals, and substitutions of previously scheduled PUD reserve locations.
As commodity prices fell during 2019, management and the Board revised the development plan and decreased the development pace. Over the course of 2019, we decreased our drilling program reducing the number of rigs deployed in development from three to two, then to one, and ultimately to zero. Despite the reduction of activity, the Company’s PUD conversion rate was 19.8% in 2019.
In addition, as a part of our internal controls for determining a plan to develop our proved reserves each year, we consider whether we have the intent and financial capability to develop PUD reserves. This year, because of the natural gas price environment and the projected investment returns, we lack the required degree of certainty that we have the ability to fund a development plan. Therefore, as of December 31, 2019, we transferred all of our PUD reserves to unproved status. We anticipate reporting PUD reserves in future filings, if we determine that we have the intent and financial capability to execute a development plan.
Changes in proved undeveloped reserves: The Company annually reviews all PUD reserves to ensure an appropriate plan for development exists. Changes to the Company’s PUD reserves during 2019 are summarized in the table below. These changes include updates to prior PUD reserves, the transfer and revision of PUD reserves to unproved categories due to development plan changes, and the impact of changes in economic conditions, including changes in commodity prices.
Conversions: In 2019, the conversion rate was 19.8% based on PUD reserves recorded as of December 31, 2018.
Additions/Extensions: At December 31, 2019, the Company did not book any PUD reserves. Accordingly, there were no additions to the PUD reserve category.
Purchases: In 2019, there were no purchases related to PUD reserves.
Revisions: At December 31, 2019, the Company transferred approximately 570 Bcfe of PUD reserves to unproven categories. Due to management’s decision to suspend its operated drilling program during 2019, we concluded we lacked the required degree of certainty about our financial capability to fund a development program and the availability of capital that would be required to develop PUD reserves.
March 2020 Reserves:
Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties in the Quarter Ended March 31, 2020
Companies that use the full cost method of accounting for oil and natural gas exploration and development activities are required to perform a ceiling test calculation each quarter. The full cost ceiling test is an impairment test prescribed by SEC Regulation S-X Rule 4-10. The ceiling test is performed quarterly, on a country-by-country basis, utilizing the average of prices in effect on the first day of the month for the preceding twelve month period in accordance with SEC Release No. 33-8995. The ceiling limits such pooled costs to the aggregate of the present value of future net revenues attributable to proved crude oil and natural gas reserves discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or market value of unproved properties, less any associated tax effects. If such capitalized costs exceed the ceiling, the Company will record a write-down to the extent of such excess as a non-cash charge to earnings.
In order to fulfill its obligation to evaluate the full cost ceiling evaluation and to calculate DD&A of its oil and gas properties, the Company is required to estimate its reserves on a quarterly basis. The estimated proven oil and gas reserves considers the estimated future production based on the most current well information available including decline rate changes causing downward revisions and updated pricing in accordance with SEC requirements. The reserves estimated as of March 31, 2020 were prepared by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. The comparable calculated average prices utilized in the preparation of the reserves as of March 31, 2020 were $2.07 per Mcf and $55.35 per Bbl. These prices represent a decrease of 15% and <1% for natural gas and oil, respectively, as compared to the pricing utilized as of December 31, 2019.
The reserve estimates as of March 31, 2020 are as follow:
The future net cash flows, before income tax and the discounted future net cash flows before income tax estimated at March 31, 2020 were $1.907 billion and $1.218 billion, respectively. As a result of the decrease in both quantities of oil and gas reserves, as well as the discounted future cash flow estimates, the Company estimates it will record an increased rate of DD&A per Mcfe and require a material impairment charge to its oil and gas properties due to the ceiling test limitation in the quarter ended March 31, 2020.
Internal Controls Over Reserve Estimating Process
Our policies and practices regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves are structured to objectively and accurately estimate our oil and gas reserve quantities and present values in compliance with the SEC’s regulations and with GAAP. Our Director of Reservoir and Development is primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of the Company’s reserve estimates and has a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering with over 15 years of experience.
The Company’s internal controls over reserve estimates include reconciliation and review controls, including an independent internal review of assumptions used in the estimation as well as ultimate approval of our capital budget and review of our development plan by our senior management and Board of Directors. The development plan underlying the Company’s PUD reserves, if any, is further subject to internal controls, including a comparison of future development costs to historical expenditures as well as our future development plan and financial capabilities, and an evaluation of the estimated profitability of each location at the time the report is prepared. The development plan underlying the Company’s PUD reserves, adopted every year by senior management, is based on the best information available at the time of adoption. As factors such as commodity price, service costs, performance data, and asset mix are subject to change, the Company occasionally revises its development plan. Development plan revisions include deferrals, removals, and substitutions of previously scheduled PUD reserve locations. These occasional changes achieve the purpose of maximizing profitability and are in the best interest of the Company’s shareholders.
The estimates of proved reserves and future net revenue as of December 31, 2019 are based upon the use of technical and economic data including, but not limited to, well logs, geologic maps, seismic data, well test data, production data, historical price and cost information and property ownership interests. The reserves were estimated using deterministic methods; these estimates were prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles. Standard engineering and geoscience methods, such as reservoir modeling, performance analysis, volumetric analysis and analogy, that were considered to be appropriate and necessary to establish reserve quantities and reserve categorization that conform to SEC definitions and rules and regulations, were also used. As in all aspects of oil and natural gas evaluation, there are uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of engineering and geoscience data; therefore, these estimates necessarily represent only informed professional judgment.
The Company engaged Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), a third-party, independent engineering firm, to prepare the reserve estimates for all of the Company’s assets for the period ended March 31, 2020 and the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, which are included in this annual report.
The reserves estimates shown herein have been independently evaluated by NSAI, a worldwide leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations and government agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No. F 2699. Within NSAI, the technical persons primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the NSAI reserves report incorporated herein are Mr. Sean A. Martin and Mr. Philip R. Hodgson. Mr. Martin, a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas (No. 125354), has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 2014 and has over eight years of prior industry experience. He graduated from University of Florida in 2007 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Chemical Engineering. Mr. Hodgson, a Licensed Professional Geoscientist in the State of Texas (No. 1314), has been practicing consulting petroleum geoscience at NSAI since 1998 and has over 15 years of prior industry experience. He graduated from University of Illinois in 1982 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Geology and from Purdue University in 1984 with a Master of Science Degree in Geophysics. Both technical principals meet or exceed the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; both are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines
Our internal professional staff works closely with NSAI to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data that is furnished to them for their reserve estimation process. In addition, other pertinent data is provided such as seismic information, geologic maps, well logs, production tests, well performance data, operating procedures and relevant economic criteria. We make available all information requested, including our pertinent personnel, to the external engineers as part of their evaluation of our reserves. The NSAI reports are included as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this annual report.
Production Volumes, Average Sales Prices and Average Production Costs
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the production volumes and average sales prices received for and average production costs associated with the Company’s sale of oil and natural gas for the periods indicated.
(1)Lease operating costs include lifting costs and remedial workover expenses.
The following table sets forth the net sales volumes, operating expenses and average realized natural gas prices attributable to the Pinedale field, which is the only field that contained 15% or more of our total estimated proved reserves for each year:
Delivery Commitments
With respect to the Company’s natural gas production, from time to time the Company enters into transactions to deliver specified quantities of gas to its customers. None of these commitments require the Company to deliver gas or oil produced specifically from any of the Company’s properties, and all of these commitments are priced on a floating basis with reference to an index price. In addition, none of the Company’s reserves are subject to any priorities or curtailments that may affect quantities delivered to its customers, any priority allocations or price limitations imposed by federal or state regulatory agencies or any other factors beyond the Company’s control that may affect its ability to meet its contractual obligations other than those discussed in Part I. Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” If for some reason our production is not sufficient to satisfy these commitments, subject to the availability of capital, we could purchase volumes in the market or make other arrangements to satisfy the commitments.
Productive Wells
As of December 31, 2019, the Company’s total gross and net wells were as follows:
*
Productive wells are producing wells, shut-in wells the Company deems capable of production, wells that are waiting for completion, plus wells that are drilled/cased and completed, but waiting for pipeline hook-up. A gross well is a well in which a working interest is owned. The number of net wells represents the sum of fractional working interests the company owns in gross wells.
Oil and Gas Acreage
The primary terms of the Company’s oil and gas leases expire at various dates. Much of the Company’s undeveloped acreage is held by production, which means that the Company will maintain its rights in these leases as long as oil or natural gas is produced from the acreage by it or by other parties holding interests in producing wells on those leases. In some cases, if production from a lease ceases, the lease will expire, and in some cases, if production from a lease ceases, the Company may maintain the lease by additional operations on the acreage.
The Company does not believe the risk of remaining terms of its leases are material. The Company expects to maintain essentially all the material leases among its oil and gas properties by production, operations, extensions or renewals. The Company does not expect to lose material lease acreage because of failure to drill due to inadequate capital, equipment or personnel. The Company has, based on its evaluation of prospective economics, allowed acreage to expire and it may allow additional acreage to expire in the future. As of December 31, 2019, the Company estimates that approximately 6,300 net leased acres may expire in 2020 through 2022, and approximately 7,200 net leased acres in Wyoming may expire in 2023 through 2029.
As of December 31, 2019, the Company had total gross and net developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas leasehold acres in the United States as set forth below.
Drilling Activities
The number of gross and net wells drilled by the Company during each of the three fiscal years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 are reflected in the tables below. The well counts in these tables represent classification and costs specific to the reserves deemed to be proved or unproved. Such wells may be completed and turned into sales during different period.
Wyoming - Green River Basin
At December 31, 2019, there were 9.0 gross (3.8 net) exploratory wells which were suspended at a depth short of total depth and thus a determination of productive capability could not be made at year-end.
Utah
The Company divested its Utah assets during the third quarter of 2018. For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company did not drill any development or exploratory wells on its Utah acreage.
Pennsylvania
The Company divested its Pennsylvania assets during the fourth quarter of 2017. For the years ended December 31, 2017, the Company did not drill any development or exploratory wells on its Pennsylvania acreage.
Colorado
The Company did not conduct any operations on this acreage during 2019, 2018 or 2017. In 2014, the Company sold the surface rights to its Colorado undeveloped acreage and retained some oil and gas mineral rights. The Company no longer owns any leased acreage in Colorado and has no immediate plans for further exploration in Colorado during 2020.
Item 3.