Item 2. Properties.
Location and Characteristics
The Company owns oil and natural gas leases in Wyoming, Utah, and Pennsylvania. In Colorado, the Company owns oil and natural gas leases as well as fee oil and gas rights. The leases in Wyoming are primarily federal leases with 10-year lease terms until establishment of production. Production extends the lease terms until cessation of that production. In Pennsylvania, the leases are from private individuals and companies, as well as from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The leases in Utah are from private individuals and companies, the State of Utah, and the federal government with primary lease terms ranging from five to ten years until the establishment of production. In 2014, the Company sold the surface rights to its undeveloped acreage in Colorado Springs, Colorado while retaining the oil and gas rights. The Company has no immediate plans for further exploration in Colorado during 2016.
As of December 31, 2015, the Company has no reportable estimated proved undeveloped reserves with respect to any of its properties because it has no reasonable expectation of financing their development. The Company previously reported estimated PUD reserves in SEC filings, and, if in the future we can satisfy the reasonable certainty criteria for recording PUD reserves as prescribed under the SEC requirements, we would likely report estimated PUD reserves in future filings.
Green River Basin, Wyoming
As of December 31, 2015, the Company owned oil and natural gas leases totaling approximately 104,000 gross (68,000 net) acres in southwest Wyoming’s Green River Basin. Most of this acreage covers the Pinedale and Jonah fields. Of the total acreage position in Wyoming and as of December 31, 2015, approximately 32,000 gross (21,000 net) acres were developed, and 72,000 gross (47,000 net) acres were undeveloped. The developed portion represents 60% of the Company’s total developed net acreage while the undeveloped portion represents approximately 32% of the Company’s total undeveloped net acreage. The Company operates 90% of its acreage position in the Pinedale field and 87% of its production.
Lease maintenance costs in Wyoming were approximately $0.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The Company currently owns 73 leases totaling 80,000 gross (53,000 net) acres that are held by production and activities (“HBP”). The HBP acreage includes all of the Company’s leases within the productive area of the Pinedale and Jonah fields.
Development Wells. During 2015, the Company participated in the drilling of 184 gross (132.3 net) productive development wells on the Green River Basin properties. At year-end 2015, there were 14 gross (9.9 net) additional development wells that commenced during the year and were either still drilling or had operations suspended at a depth short of total depth.
Exploratory Wells. During 2015, the Company participated in the drilling of a total of 7 gross (3.8 net) productive exploratory wells on the Green River Basin properties. At December 31, 2015, there was 1 gross (0.3 net) additional exploratory well that commenced during the year that was either still drilling or had operations suspended at a depth short of total depth and thus a determination of productive capability could not be made at year-end.
Seismic Activity. The Company owns 492 square miles of 3D seismic data in Wyoming which, when overlap is subtracted, covers 415 square miles. The data consists of both proprietary data and data licensed from independent seismic contractors, and provides coverage over the entire productive areas of Pinedale and Jonah fields. During 2015, the Company initiated a project to merge the various data sets and reprocess the entire volume. That project should be complete during the second quarter of 2016.
Uinta Basin, Utah
As of December 31, 2015, the Company owned oil and natural gas leases covering 9,000 gross (9,000 net) acres in the Uinta Basin. This acreage is located in Uintah County in the eastern portion of the Uinta Basin. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 4,000 gross (4,000 net) acres were developed, and 5,000 gross (5,000 net) acres were undeveloped. The developed portion represents 11% of the Company’s total developed net acreage position while the undeveloped portion represents 3% of the Company’s total undeveloped net acreage position. The Company operates 100% of the properties.
Lease maintenance costs in Utah for the year ended December 31, 2015 were approximately $0.4 million. The Company owns approximately 7,000 gross (7,000 net) acres currently held by production or activities in Utah.
Development Wells. During 2015, the Company participated in the drilling of a total of 14 gross (14.0 net) productive development wells on the Utah properties. At December 31, 2015, there were no development wells that commenced during the year that were either still drilling or had operations suspended at a depth short of total depth and thus a determination of productive capability could not be made at year-end.
Exploratory Wells. During 2015, the Company participated in the drilling of a total of 5 gross (5.0 net) productive exploratory wells on the Utah properties. At December 31, 2015, there were no exploratory wells that commenced during the year that were either still drilling or had operations suspended at a depth short of total depth and thus a determination of productive capability could not be made at year-end.
Waterflood. In 2015, the Company initiated a pilot waterflood project in the Utah asset. The Company plans to continue implementing this pilot in 2016 and to seek opportunities to expand waterflooding to nearby acreage.
Seismic Activity. The Company’s 3D seismic coverage in Utah covers approximately 27 square miles, partially covering its properties.
Pennsylvania
As of December 31, 2015, the Company owned oil and gas leases covering 150,000 gross (74,000 net) acres in the Pennsylvania portion of the Appalachian Basin. This acreage is located in the heart of northeast Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale Gas Trend, principally in Lycoming, Clinton and Centre counties. Of the total acreage position as of December 31, 2015, approximately 20,000 gross (10,000 net) acres were developed, and 130,000 gross (64,000 net) acres were undeveloped. The Company’s properties in Pennsylvania are outside operated.
Lease maintenance costs in Pennsylvania were approximately $0.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The Company owns approximately 147,000 gross (73,000 net) acres currently held by production or activities in Pennsylvania.
Development Wells. During 2015, the Company did not participate in the drilling of any development wells on the Pennsylvania properties. At year-end 2015, there were no additional development wells that commenced during the year that were either still drilling or had operations suspended at a depth short of total depth.
Exploratory Wells. During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company did not participate in the drilling of any exploratory wells on the Pennsylvania properties. At December 31, 2015, there were no exploratory wells that commenced during the year that were either still drilling or had operations suspended at a depth short of total depth and thus a determination of productive capability could not be made at year-end.
Oil and Gas Reserves
The following table sets forth the Company’s quantities of proved reserves for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013. The table summarizes the Company’s proved reserves, the estimated future net revenues from these reserves and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows attributable thereto at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. As part of the SWEPI Transaction described in Note 3 of our consolidated financial statements, the Company acquired contracts related to NGLs providing the opportunity to realize the benefit of the NGLs from the gas it produces beginning in 2017.
The Company’s internal controls for booking proved undeveloped reserves include testing whether the Company has the financial capability to execute PUD drilling. This year, because substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern within one year after our December 31, 2015 financial statements are issued, the Company lacks the required degree of certainty of our ability to fund the five-year development program. As a result of our inability to meet the reasonable certainty criteria for recording proved undeveloped reserves as prescribed under the SEC requirements, we did not book any PUD reserves in the December 31, 2015 reserve report. As of February 29, 2016, we are running three rigs in the Pinedale field (two operated, one non-operated) utilizing cash from operations and cash on hand, and, subject to available capital, we intend to continue drilling and completing wells during 2016.
(1) Oil, condensate and NGLs are converted to natural gas at the ratio of one barrel of liquids to six Mcf of natural gas. This conversion ratio, which is typically used in the oil and gas industry, represents the approximate energy equivalent of a barrel of oil or condensate to an Mcf of natural gas.
(2) Management believes that the presentation of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, before income taxes, of estimated proved reserves, discounted at 10% per annum, may be considered a non-Generally Accepted Accounting Principle financial measure as defined in Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K,
therefore the Company has included this reconciliation of the measure to the most directly comparable Generally Accepted Accounting Principle (“GAAP”) financial measure (standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, after income taxes). Management believes that the presentation of the standardized measure of future net cash flows before income taxes provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and gas companies. Because many factors that are unique to each individual company may impact the amount of future income taxes to be paid, the use of the pre-tax measure provides greater comparability when evaluating companies. It is relevant and useful to investors for evaluating the relative monetary significance of the Company’s oil and natural gas properties. Further, investors may utilize the measure as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of the Company’s reserves to other companies. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, before income taxes, is not a measure of financial or operating performance under GAAP, nor is it intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves owned by the Company. Standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, before income taxes, should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as defined under GAAP.
(3) As prescribed by SEC rules, our reserve estimates at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, reflect spot prices based on the average of the beginning of the month prices during the 12-month period before the ending date of the period covered by this report determined as an un-weighted, arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period.
Since January 1, 2015, no crude oil, natural gas or NGL reserve information has been filed with, or included in any report to, any federal authority or agency other than the SEC and the Energy Information Administration (“EIA”) of the U.S. Department of Energy. We file Form 23, including reserve and other information, with the EIA.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
As of December 31, 2015, the Company is not including PUD reserves in its total proved reserve estimates due to uncertainty regarding its ability to continue as a going concern and the availability of capital that would be required to develop the PUD reserves.
Development plan: The development plan underlying the Company’s proved undeveloped reserves, if any, adopted each year by senior management, is based on the best information available at the time of adoption. As factors such as commodity price, service costs, performance data, and asset mix are subject to change, the Company occasionally revises its development plan. Development plan revisions include deferrals, removals, and substitutions of previously scheduled PUD reserve locations. These occasional changes achieve the purpose of maximizing profitability and are in the best interest of the Company’s shareholders.
As commodity prices fell during 2015, we revised our development plan and decreased our development pace. As of February 29, 2016, we are developing our properties at a substantially slower pace than was anticipated in our December 31, 2014 reserve report. In addition, as a part of our internal controls for determining a plan to develop our proved reserves each year, we consider whether we have the financial capability to develop proved undeveloped reserves. This year, because substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern, we lack the required degree of certainty that we have the ability to fund a development plan. Therefore, as of December 31, 2015, we transferred all of our proved undeveloped reserves to unproved status. As of February 29, 2016, the Company has 3 rigs running in the Pinedale field (2 operated, 1 non-operated) and, subject to available capital, intends to continue drilling and completing wells. We expect to report PUD reserves in future filings if we determine that we have the financial capability to execute a development plan.
Changes in proved undeveloped reserves: Changes to the Company’s PUD reserves during 2015 are summarized in the table below. These changes include updates to prior PUD reserves, the transfer of PUD
reserves to unproved categories due to development plan changes, and the impact of changes in economic conditions, including changes in commodity prices and the uncertainty regarding our ability to continue as a going concern.
Conversions: In 2015, we converted 516.2 Bcfe of our proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves, representing an 18% annual conversion rate (as determined by dividing the volumes of proved undeveloped reserves converted during 2015 by the total volumes of proved undeveloped reserves booked in our December 31, 2014 reserve report). We converted less than 20% of the proved undeveloped reserves booked in our December 31, 2014 reserve report during 2015 because, under the five-year development plan underlying our December 31, 2014 reserve report, we anticipated increasing our development activity each year. According to last year’s five-year development plan, we anticipated converting approximately 16% of the year-end 2014 proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves. Because we achieved an 18% annual conversion rate, we actually converted more of our proved undeveloped reserves during 2015 than were scheduled to be converted during the first year of the development plan.
Additions/Extensions: At December 31, 2015, the Company did not book any PUD reserves. Accordingly, there were no additions to the PUD reserve category.
Revisions: At December 31, 2015, the Company did not book any PUD reserves and accordingly there were no revisions to PUD reserves booked in prior periods.
Transfers: At December 31, 2015, we transferred 2.4 Tcfe of proved undeveloped reserves to unproven categories. Because substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern, in determining year-end 2015 reserve amounts, we concluded we lacked the required degree of certainty about our financial capability to fund a development program and the availability of capital that would be required to develop PUD reserves. As a result of our inability to meet the reasonable certainty criteria for recording these PUD reserves as prescribed under the SEC requirements, we did not any PUD locations in the December 31, 2015 reserve report.
Internal Controls Over Reserve Estimating Process
Our policies and practices regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves are structured to objectively and accurately estimate our oil and gas reserve quantities and present values in compliance with the SEC’s regulations and GAAP. The Director - Reservoir Engineering & Development is primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of the Company’s reserve estimates. He has a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering and is a licensed Professional Engineer with over 14 years of experience.
The Company’s internal controls over reserve estimates include reconciliation and review controls, including an independent internal review of assumptions used in the estimation as well as ultimate approval of our capital budget and review of our development plan by our senior management and Board of Directors. The development plan underlying the Company’s PUD reserves is further subject to internal controls, including a comparison of future development costs to historical expenditures as well as our future development plan and financial capabilities, and an evaluation of the estimated profitability of each location at the time the report is prepared. The development plan underlying the Company’s proved undeveloped reserves, adopted every year by
senior management, is based on the best information available at the time of adoption. As factors such as commodity price, service costs, performance data, and asset mix are subject to change, the Company occasionally revises its development plan. Development plan revisions include deferrals, removals, and substitutions of previously scheduled PUD reserve locations. These occasional changes achieve the purpose of maximizing profitability and are in the best interest of the Company’s shareholders.
The estimates of proved reserves and future net revenue as of December 31, 2015 are based upon the use of technical and economic data including, but not limited to, well logs, geologic maps, seismic data, well test data, production data, historical price and cost information and property ownership interests. The reserves were estimated using deterministic methods; these estimates were prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles. Standard engineering and geoscience methods, such as reservoir modeling, performance analysis, volumetric analysis and analogy, that were considered to be appropriate and necessary to establish reserve quantities and reserve categorization that conform to SEC definitions and rules and regulations, were also used. As in all aspects of oil and natural gas evaluation, there are uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of engineering and geoscience data; therefore, these estimates necessarily represent only informed professional judgment.
The Company engaged Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), a third-party, independent engineering firm, to prepare the reserve estimates for all of the Company’s assets for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 in this annual report. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company engaged NSAI to prepare the reserve estimates for all of the Company’s assets in Wyoming and Pennsylvania in this annual report. Due to the timing of the closing of the acquisition in Utah in December 2013 relative to the timing of preparing annual corporate reserves, the Company’s Reservoir Engineering Department prepared the proved reserve estimates for its Utah assets for the year ended December 31, 2013, which were prepared in accordance with the Company’s internal controls and SEC regulations and represented less than 2% of estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2013.
Our internal professional staff works closely with our independent engineers, NSAI, to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data that is furnished to them for their reserve estimation process. In addition, other pertinent data is provided such as seismic information, geologic maps, well logs, production tests, well performance data, operating procedures and relevant economic criteria. We make available all information requested, including our pertinent personnel, to the external engineers as part of their evaluation of our reserves. The report of NSAI is included as an Exhibit to this annual report.
The reserves estimates shown herein have been independently evaluated by NSAI, a worldwide leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations and government agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No.. Within NSAI, the technical persons primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the NSAI reserves report incorporated herein are Mr. Robert C. Barg and Mr. Phillip R. Hodgson. Mr. Barg, a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas (No. 71658), has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 1989 and has over 6 years of prior industry experience. He graduated from Purdue University in 1983 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Mechanical Engineering. Mr. Hodgson, a Licensed Professional Geoscientist in the State of Texas (No. 1314), has been practicing consulting petroleum geoscience at NSAI since 1998 and has over 14 years of prior industry experience. He graduated from University of Illinois in 1982 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Geology and from Purdue University in 1984 with a Master of Science Degree in Geophysics. Both technical principals meet or exceed the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; both are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
Production Volumes, Average Sales Prices and Average Production Costs
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the production volumes and average sales prices received for and average production costs associated with the Company’s sale of oil and natural gas for the periods indicated.
The following table sets forth the net sales volumes, operating expenses and realized natural gas prices attributable to field(s) that contain 15% or more of our total estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2015:
(a) Production costs include lifting costs and remedial workover expenses.
Delivery Commitments
With respect to the Company’s natural gas production, from time to time the Company enters into transactions to deliver specified quantities of gas to its customers. As of February 9, 2016, the Company has long-term natural gas delivery commitments of 5.1 MMMBtu in 2016 and 13.5 MMMBtu in 2017 under existing agreements. As of February 9, 2016, the Company has long-term crude oil delivery commitments of 3.4 MMBbls in 2016, 2.8 MMBbls in 2017, 1.1 MMBbls in 2018 and 0.2 MMBbls in 2019 under existing agreements. None of these commitments require the Company to deliver gas or oil produced specifically from any of the Company’s properties, and all of these commitments are priced on a floating basis with reference to an index price. In addition, none of the Company’s reserves are subject to any priorities or curtailments that may affect quantities delivered to its customers, any priority allocations or price limitations imposed by federal or state regulatory agencies or any other factors beyond the Company’s control that may affect its ability to meet its contractual obligations other than those discussed in Item 1A. “Risk Factors”. If for some reason our production is not sufficient to satisfy these commitments, subject to the availability of capital, we could purchase volumes in the market or make other arrangements to satisfy the commitments.
Productive Wells
As of December 31, 2015 the Company’s total gross and net wells were as follows:
* Productive wells are producing wells, shut-in wells the Company deems capable of production, wells that are waiting for completion, plus wells that are drilled/cased and completed, but waiting for pipeline hook-up. A gross well is a well in which a working interest is owned. The number of net wells represents the sum of fractional working interests the company owns in gross wells.
Oil and Gas Acreage
The primary terms of the Company’s oil and gas leases expire at various dates. Much of the Company’s undeveloped acreage is held by production, which means that the Company will maintain its rights in these leases as long as oil or natural gas is produced from the acreage by it or by other parties holding interests in producing wells on those leases. In some cases, if production from a lease ceases, the lease will expire, and in some cases, if production from a lease ceases, the Company may maintain the lease by additional operations on the acreage.
The Company does not believe the remaining terms of its leases are material. At December 31, 2015, the Company had 206 net acres of leases in Pennsylvania, 13,402 net acres of leases in Colorado, 676 net acres of leases in Utah and no leases in Wyoming that expire in 2016. The Company has no immediate plans for further development of the Colorado leasehold in 2016, and plans to extend or renew few if any of the 2016 expiring leases in Pennsylvania. The Company expects to maintain all of the Utah leases by production, operations, extensions or renewals. The Company does not expect to lose material lease acreage because of failure to drill due to inadequate capital, equipment or personnel. The Company has, based on its evaluation of prospective economics, allowed acreage to expire and it may allow additional acreage to expire in the future.
As of December 31, 2015 the Company had total gross and net developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas leasehold acres in the United States as set forth below.
Drilling Activities
For each of the three fiscal years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 the number of gross and net wells drilled by the Company was as follows:
Wyoming - Green River Basin
At year end, there were 14 gross (9.9 net) additional development wells that were either drilling or had operations suspended. This includes wells in both the Pinedale and Jonah fields.
At year end, there were 1 gross (0.3 net) additional exploratory wells that were either drilling or had operations suspended in the Pinedale field.
Utah
At year end, there were no additional development wells that were either drilling or had operations suspended.
At year end, there were no additional exploratory wells that were either drilling or had operations suspended.
Pennsylvania
At year end, there were no additional development wells that were either drilling or had operations suspended.
At year end, there were no additional exploratory wells that were either drilling or had operations suspended.
Colorado
The Company did not conduct any operations on this acreage during 2015, 2014 or 2013. During 2014, the Company sold the surface rights to its Colorado acreage and retained the mineral rights. The Company has no immediate plans for further exploration in this area during 2016.
Present Activities
Our present activities primarily involve continued production operations on our Pinedale field. Due to our current financial constraints, capital expenditures for development activities at these properties during 2016 have been limited. As of February 29, 2016, the Company has 3 rigs running in the Pinedale field (2 operated, 1 non-operated). Please refer to Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion.
Item 3.