Item 2. Properties.
Location and Characteristics
The Company owns oil and natural gas leases in Wyoming and Utah. The Company owned natural gas leases in Pennsylvania, which the Company sold during the quarter ended December 31, 2017. In Colorado, the Company owns oil and natural gas leases as well as fee oil and gas rights. The leases in Wyoming are primarily federal leases with 10-year lease terms until establishment of production. Production extends the lease terms until cessation of that production. The leases in Utah are from private individuals and companies, the State of Utah, and the federal government with primary lease terms ranging from five to ten years until the establishment of production. In 2014, the Company sold the surface rights to its undeveloped acreage in Colorado Springs, Colorado while retaining the oil and gas rights. The Company has no immediate plans for further exploration in Colorado during 2018.
Green River Basin, Wyoming
As of December 31, 2017, the Company owned oil and natural gas leases totaling approximately 112,000 gross (77,000 net) acres in southwest Wyoming’s Green River Basin. Most of this acreage covers the Pinedale and Jonah fields. Of the total acreage position in Wyoming and as of December 31, 2017, approximately 39,000 gross (25,000 net) acres were developed, and 73,000 gross (52,000 net) acres were undeveloped. The developed portion represents 83% of the Company’s total developed net acreage while the undeveloped portion represents approximately 95% of the Company’s total undeveloped net acreage. The Company operates 89% of its acreage position in the Pinedale field and 89% of its production.
Lease maintenance costs in Wyoming were approximately $0.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. The Company currently owns 67 leases totaling 79,000 gross (54,000 net) acres that are held by production and activities (“HBP”). The HBP acreage includes all of the Company’s leases within the productive area of the Pinedale and Jonah fields.
Development Wells. Development wells are wells that were drilled in the current year that were proved undeveloped locations in the prior year’s reserve report. During 2017, none of the productive wells drilled by the Company are considered to be development wells.
Exploratory Wells. Exploratory wells are wells that were drilled in the current year that were not proved undeveloped locations in the prior year’s reserve report. During 2017, all of the productive wells drilled by the Company are reported as exploratory wells and totaled 210 gross (172.1 net) productive exploratory wells on the Green River Basin properties. At December 31, 2017, there were 23 gross (17.4 net) additional exploratory wells that commenced during the year that were either still drilling or had operations suspended at a depth short of total depth and thus a determination of productive capability could not be made at year-end. As Ultra did not report proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2016, all wells drilled in 2017 are considered exploratory wells.
Seismic Activity. The Company owns 492 square miles of 3D seismic data in Wyoming which, when overlap is subtracted, covers 415 square miles. The data consists of both proprietary data and data licensed from independent seismic contractors, and provides coverage over the entire productive areas of Pinedale and Jonah fields. During 2016, the Company completed a project to merge the various data sets and reprocess the entire volume.
Uinta Basin, Utah
As of December 31, 2017, the Company owned oil and natural gas leases covering 8,000 gross (8,000 net) acres in the Uinta Basin. This acreage is located in Uintah County in the eastern portion of the Uinta Basin. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 5,000 gross (5,000 net) acres were developed, and 3,000 gross (3,000 net) acres were undeveloped. The developed portion represents 17% of the Company’s total developed net acreage position while the undeveloped portion represents 5% of the Company’s total undeveloped net acreage position. The Company operates 100% of the properties.
Lease maintenance costs in Utah for the year ended December 31, 2017 were not significant. The Company owns approximately 7,000 gross (7,000 net) acres currently held by production or activities in Utah.
Development Wells. During 2017, the Company did not participate in the drilling of any development wells on the Utah properties. At December 31, 2017, there were no development wells that commenced during the year that were either still drilling or had operations suspended at a depth short of total depth.
Exploratory Wells. During 2017, the Company did not participate in the drilling of any exploratory wells on the Utah properties. At December 31, 2017, there were no exploratory wells that commenced during the year that were either still drilling or had operations suspended at a depth short of total depth.
Waterflood. In 2017, the Company continued its waterflood program with incremental recovery achieved in both pilots. A third pilot has been planned and permitted, but operations have not yet been implemented.
Seismic Activity. The Company’s 3D seismic coverage in Utah covers approximately 27 square miles, partially covering its properties.
Pennsylvania
During the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company sold the oil and gas leases covering 144,000 gross (72,000 net) acres in the Pennsylvania portion of the Appalachian Basin for a cash purchase price of approximately $115.0 million, subject to post-close adjustments. This acreage is located in the heart of northeast Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale Gas Trend, principally in Lycoming, Clinton and Centre counties. The Company’s properties in Pennsylvania were non-operated.
Lease maintenance costs in Pennsylvania were approximately $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Development Wells. During 2017, the Company did not participate in the drilling of any development wells on the Pennsylvania properties.
Exploratory Wells. During the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company did not participate in the drilling of any exploratory wells on the Pennsylvania properties.
Oil and Gas Reserves
The following table sets forth the Company’s quantities of proved reserves for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015. The table summarizes the Company’s proved reserves, the estimated future net revenues from these reserves and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows attributable thereto at December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015. During 2014, the Company acquired contracts related to NGLs providing an annual election to process NGLs beginning in 2017. During 2017, the Company renegotiated its existing gas processing contracts in Wyoming. The new gas processing contracts are keep-whole contracts in which the Company shares in the economic benefit of processing and accordingly does not include the NGL volumes in its reserves. As of December 31, 2017, proved undeveloped reserves represent 23% of the Company’s total proved reserves. The Company did not record any proved undeveloped reserves for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 because of the going concern assessment for those respective periods.
(1)
Oil, condensate and NGLs are converted to natural gas at the ratio of one barrel of liquids to six Mcf of natural gas. This conversion ratio, which is typically used in the oil and gas industry, represents the approximate energy equivalent of a barrel of oil or condensate to an Mcf of natural gas.
(2)
Management believes that the presentation of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, before income taxes, of estimated proved reserves, discounted at 10% per annum, may be considered a non-Generally Accepted Accounting Principle financial measure as defined in Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K, therefore the Company has included this reconciliation of the measure to the most directly comparable Generally Accepted Accounting Principle (“GAAP”) financial measure (standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, after income taxes). Management believes that the presentation of the standardized measure of future net cash flows before income taxes provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and gas companies. Because many factors that are unique to each individual company may impact the amount of future income taxes to be paid, the use of the pre-tax measure provides greater comparability when evaluating companies. It is relevant and useful to investors for evaluating the relative monetary significance of the Company’s oil and natural gas properties. Further, investors may utilize the measure as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of the Company’s reserves to other companies. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, before income taxes, is not a measure of financial or operating performance under GAAP, nor is it intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves owned by the Company. Standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, before income taxes, should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as defined under GAAP.
(3)
As prescribed by SEC rules, our reserve estimates at December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, reflect spot prices based on the average of the beginning of the month prices during the 12-month period before the ending date of the period covered by this report determined as an un-weighted, arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period.
Since January 1, 2016, no crude oil, natural gas or NGL reserve information has been filed with, or included in any report to, any federal authority or agency other than the SEC and the Energy Information Administration (“EIA”) of the U.S. Department of Energy. We file Form 23, including reserve and other information, with the EIA.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Changes in proved undeveloped reserves: Changes to the Company’s proved undeveloped reserves (PUDs) during 2017 are summarized in the table below. These changes include updates to prior PUDs, the addition of new PUDs associated with the current development plans, the transfer of PUDs to unproved categories due to development plan changes, and the impact of changes in economic conditions, including changes in commodity prices. The Company’s year-end development plans and associated PUDs are consistent with SEC guidelines for PUD development within five years. The Company annually reviews all PUDs to ensure an appropriate plan for development exists. As of December 31, 2017, 100% of the proved undeveloped locations are located in Wyoming.
Conversions: Due to going concern issues related to the Company’s chapter 11 proceedings, no proved undeveloped reserves were recognized at December 31, 2016. As a result, there are no PUD conversions nor a conversion rate to report on an annual basis for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Additions/Extensions: In 2017, the Company’s reserve additions primarily include initial bookings of horizontal PUDs in Pinedale.
Purchases: In 2017, the Company purchased certain assets in the Pinedale field. The divestiture of assets in Pennsylvania did not affect proved undeveloped reserves.
Transfers: At December 31, 2016, the Company did not book any PUD reserves. As a result, there are no transfers of PUDs to record in 2017.
Revisions: Due to the uncertainty of the Company’s ability to fund a development plan as a result of the Company’s chapter 11 proceedings, no proved undeveloped reserves were recognized at December 31, 2016. Upon emergence from chapter 11 proceedings the Company began recognizing PUDs as the substantial doubt regarding the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern had been alleviated. The changes to the Company’s PUDs during 2017 include the PUDs associated with the current development plan. In 2017, the Company’s revisions include Pinedale drilling locations that are scheduled in its limited development plan within the next five years.
Internal Controls Over Reserve Estimating Process
Our policies and practices regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves are structured to objectively and accurately estimate our oil and gas reserve quantities and present values in compliance with the SEC’s regulations and GAAP. The Senior Director- Development is primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of the Company’s reserve estimates. He has a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering and is a licensed Professional Engineer with over 15 years of experience.
The Company’s internal controls over reserve estimates include reconciliation and review controls, including an independent internal review of assumptions used in the estimation as well as ultimate approval of our capital budget and review of our development plan by our senior management and Board of Directors. The development plan underlying the Company’s PUD reserves, if any, is further subject to internal controls, including a comparison of future development costs to historical expenditures as well as our future development plan and financial capabilities, and an evaluation of the estimated profitability of each location at the time the report is prepared. The development plan underlying the Company’s proved undeveloped reserves, adopted every year by senior management, is based on the best information available at the time of adoption. As factors such as commodity price, service costs, performance data, and asset mix are subject to change, the Company occasionally revises its development plan. Development plan revisions include deferrals, removals, and substitutions of previously scheduled PUD reserve locations. These occasional changes achieve the purpose of maximizing profitability and are in the best interest of the Company’s shareholders.
The estimates of proved reserves and future net revenue as of December 31, 2017 are based upon the use of technical and economic data including, but not limited to, well logs, geologic maps, seismic data, well test data, production data, historical price and cost information and property ownership interests. The reserves were estimated using deterministic methods; these estimates were prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles. Standard engineering and geoscience methods, such as reservoir modeling, performance analysis, volumetric analysis and analogy, that were considered to be appropriate and necessary to establish reserve quantities and reserve categorization that conform to SEC definitions and rules and regulations, were also used. As in all aspects of oil and natural gas evaluation, there are uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of engineering and geoscience data; therefore, these estimates necessarily represent only informed professional judgment.
The Company engaged Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), a third-party, independent engineering firm, to prepare the reserve estimates for all of the Company’s assets for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 in this annual report.
Our internal professional staff works closely with our independent engineers, NSAI, to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data that is furnished to them for their reserve estimation process. In addition, other pertinent data is provided such as seismic information, geologic maps, well logs, production tests, well performance data, operating procedures and relevant economic criteria. We make available all information requested, including our pertinent personnel, to the external engineers as part of their evaluation of our reserves. The report of NSAI is included as an Exhibit to this annual report.
The reserves estimates shown herein have been independently evaluated by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), a worldwide leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations and government agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No. F 2699. Within NSAI, the technical persons primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the NSAI reserves report incorporated herein are Mr. Sean A. Martin and Mr. Philip R. Hodgson. Mr. Martin, a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas (No. 125354), has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 2014 and has over 7 years of prior industry experience. He graduated from University of Florida in 2007 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Chemical Engineering. Mr. Hodgson, a Licensed Professional Geoscientist in the State of Texas (No. 1314), has been practicing consulting petroleum geoscience at NSAI since 1998 and has over 14 years of prior industry experience. He graduated from University of Illinois in 1982 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Geology and from Purdue University in 1984 with a Master of Science Degree in Geophysics. Both technical principals meet or exceed the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; both are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
Production Volumes, Average Sales Prices and Average Production Costs
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the production volumes and average sales prices received for and average production costs associated with the Company’s sale of oil and natural gas for the periods indicated.
The following table sets forth the net sales volumes, operating expenses and realized natural gas prices attributable to field(s) that contain 15% or more of our total estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2017:
(a)
Lease operating costs include lifting costs and remedial workover expenses.
Delivery Commitments
With respect to the Company’s natural gas production, from time to time the Company enters into transactions to deliver specified quantities of gas to its customers. As of February 9, 2018, the Company has long-term natural gas delivery commitments of 12.6 MMMBtu in 2019 under existing agreements. As of February 9, 2018, the Company has long-term crude oil delivery commitments of 1.7 MMBbls in 2018 and 0.3 MMBbls in 2019 under existing agreements. None of these commitments require the Company to deliver gas or oil produced specifically from any of the Company’s properties, and all of these commitments are priced on a floating basis with reference to an index price. In addition, none of the Company’s reserves are subject to any priorities or curtailments that may affect quantities delivered to its customers, any priority allocations or price limitations imposed by federal or state regulatory agencies or any other factors beyond the Company’s control that may affect its ability to meet its contractual obligations other than those discussed in Item 1A. “Risk Factors”. If for some reason our production is not sufficient to satisfy these commitments, subject to the availability of capital, we could purchase volumes in the market or make other arrangements to satisfy the commitments.
Productive Wells
As of December 31, 2017, the Company’s total gross and net wells were as follows:
*
Productive wells are producing wells, shut-in wells the Company deems capable of production, wells that are waiting for completion, plus wells that are drilled/cased and completed, but waiting for pipeline hook-up. A gross well is a well in which a working interest is owned. The number of net wells represents the sum of fractional working interests the company owns in gross wells.
Oil and Gas Acreage
The primary terms of the Company’s oil and gas leases expire at various dates. Much of the Company’s undeveloped acreage is held by production, which means that the Company will maintain its rights in these leases as long as oil or natural gas is produced from the acreage by it or by other parties holding interests in producing wells on those leases. In some cases, if production from a lease ceases, the lease will expire, and in some cases, if production from a lease ceases, the Company may maintain the lease by additional operations on the acreage.
The Company does not believe the remaining terms of its leases are material. The Company expects to maintain essentially all of the material leases among its oil and gas properties by production, operations, extensions or renewals. The Company does not expect to lose material lease acreage because of failure to drill due to inadequate capital, equipment or personnel. The Company has, based on its evaluation of prospective economics, allowed acreage to expire and it may allow additional acreage to expire in the future. The Company estimates that approximately 300 net acres of leases in Utah may expire in 2018 and approximately 400 net acres of leases in Utah and 6,700 net acres of leases in Wyoming may expire in 2019.
As of December 31, 2017, the Company had total gross and net developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas leasehold acres in the United States as set forth below.
Drilling Activities
For each of the three fiscal years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 the number of gross and net wells drilled by the Company was as follows:
Wyoming - Green River Basin
At year end, there were no development wells that were either drilling or had operations suspended. This includes wells in both the Pinedale and Jonah fields.
At year end, there were 23 gross (17.4 net) additional exploratory wells that were either drilling or had operations suspended in the Pinedale field.
Utah
At year end, there were no additional development wells that were either drilling or had operations suspended.
At year end, there were no additional exploratory wells that were either drilling or had operations suspended.
Pennsylvania
The Company divested its Pennsylvania assets during the fourth quarter of 2017. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, the Company did not drill any development or exploratory wells on its Pennsylvania acreage.
Colorado
The Company did not conduct any operations on this acreage during 2017, 2016 or 2015. During 2014, the Company sold the surface rights to its Colorado acreage and retained the mineral rights. The Company has no immediate plans for further exploration in this area during 2018.
Item 3.