ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Offices
Our corporate headquarters office is in Houston, Texas, where we lease approximately 20,400 square feet of office space under a lease agreement which expires in February 2016. We sublease approximately 4,900 square feet of our office space to a tenant under a sublease agreement which expires in December 2012. We also currently lease administrative offices and warehouses in Peru. The administrative office and warehouse leased areas are approximately 22,500 square feet and 101,000 square feet, respectively. The administrative office lease expires in July 2014 and the warehouse lease expires in December 2014. Additionally, we lease an administrative office in Quito, Ecuador of 829 square feet under a month-to-month lease.
Properties in Peru
We currently have exclusive rights to four properties in northwest Peru. We have a 100% working interest in license contracts for Block Z-1, Block XIX, Block XXII and Block XXIII. The license contracts afford an initial exploration phase of seven years. As described below, each license contract provides for additional exploration periods which can extend the exploration phase of the license contract. If exploration efforts are successful, the license contracts term can extend up to 30 years for oil exploration and production and up to 40 years for gas exploration and production. In the event a block contains both oil and gas, as is the case in the Block Z-1 contract, the 40-year term may apply to oil exploration and production as well. These four blocks cover a combined area of approximately 2.2 million acres.
The following table is a summary of our properties in northwest Peru. As of December 31, 2011, only acreage in Block Z-1 has been partially developed.
(1) Does not include the CX11-16X well which tested quantities of gas which we believe to be of commercial amounts and is currently shut-in. Until such time as sufficient funding has been secured and the necessary infrastructure is in place for our gas-to power project, we cannot classify any of these reserves as proved SEC reserves nor refer to the well as productive.
(2) Includes all oil producing wells we have developed. At December 31, 2011, five of these wells were under production and six wells were producing intermittently.
(3) Does not include the CX11-22D or A-12F wells as these wells have either been converted or are being considered to be converted to either water or gas reinjection wells.
(4) Does not include the PLG-1X well as this well was declared a dry hole during the fourth quarter of 2011. See Description of Block XIX and License Contract below and see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations” for further information.
Description of Block Z-1 and License Contract
Block Z-1, a coastal offshore area encompassing approximately 555,000 acres, is situated at the southern end of the Gulf of Guayaquil in northwest Peru. Geologically, the block lies within the Tumbes Basin. From the coastline, water depths increase gradually. The average water depth of the area is approximately 200 feet and approximately 10% of the area has depths ranging from 500 feet up to 1,000 feet. Located within Block Z-1 are five structures which were drilled in the 1970s and 1980s by previous operators, including Tenneco Inc. and Belco Oil and Gas Corporation (“Belco”). These structures are known as the Albacora, Barracuda, Corvina, Delfin and Piedra Redonda fields. With the exception of the Barracuda field, the other four fields have exploration wells drilled that tested positive for oil or gas in what we believe to be economic quantities while drilling at depths ranging from 6,000 to 12,000 feet. However, at the time the wells were drilled, it was not considered economic to produce and sell natural gas from the fields. Consequently, the wells were either suspended or abandoned.
In the Corvina field, five wells were drilled, including two wells drilled by Tenneco Inc. in the mid-1970s and three wells drilled by Belco in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Two drilling and production platforms were set up by Belco during this period and are still in place in the Corvina field. The first platform is located in the East Corvina prospect field and, based on the engineering study, we have concluded that the platform is not considered suitable for our future development plans and therefore requires us to build a new platform prior to initiating any drilling activities in this section of the Corvina field. The second platform, CX-11, is located in the West Corvina development field and is currently being used in our West Corvina drilling and production activities. All five of the previously drilled wells in the Corvina field encountered indications of natural gas and
apparent reservoir-quality formations.
In the Albacora field, three wells were drilled and produced oil for a very limited time. The original drilling and production platform set up by Tenneco Inc. during this period is still in place in the Albacora field and has been repaired and refurbished by us. The Albacora field is located in the northern part of our offshore Block Z-1. It consists of approximately 7,500 acres and, is located in water depths of less than 100 feet.
In the Piedra Redonda field, two wells were drilled by Belco in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Indications of natural gas were present in both wells. One well was completed, while the other well encountered abnormally high pressures and was abandoned for mechanical reasons prior to reaching its intended total depth. After conducting engineering feasibility studies, we have determined the existing platform located in the Piedra Redonda field is not suitable for our future development plans and therefore we must consider other options for development in this field. In any development plan, we do not expect to recomplete the previously drilled and completed well by Belco due to uncertainty of the mechanical condition and potentially high wellhead pressure of the well.
We originally acquired our initial interest in Block Z-1 in a joint venture with Syntroleum Peru Holdings Limited, Sucursal del Peru, under an exploration and production license contract dated November 30, 2001, with an effective date of January 29, 2002. Under the original contract, BPZ owned a 5% non-operating working interest, along with the right of first refusal, in the block. Syntroleum later transferred its interest to Nuevo Peru ltd., Sucursal del Peru. Subsequent to the merger of Nuevo Energy, Inc. and Plains Exploration and Production Company, Nuevo Energy, Inc. transferred its interest in Block Z-1 to BPZ which then assumed a 100% working interest, as well as the remaining obligations under the contract. Perupetro approved the assumption of Nuevo’s interest by BPZ and the designation of BPZ as a qualified operator under the contract in November 2004. This action was subject to official ratification and issuance of a Supreme Decree by the government of Peru, which was issued in February 2005. Accordingly, an amended contract was signed with Perupetro, naming BPZ as the owner of 100% of the participation under the license contract.
The license contract provides for an initial exploration phase of seven years, and can be extended under certain circumstances an additional six years up to thirteen years. Each period has a commitment for exploration activities and requires a financial guarantee to secure the performance of the work commitment during such period. Block Z-1 is currently in the fourth and final exploration period. This period was initially scheduled to expire in November 2009. However, as a result of suspension of the seismic data survey at the request of the Ministry of Energy and Mines in 2009, the fourth period was extended until November 2011. We received approval from the Ministry of Energy and Mines to conduct seismic survey in November 2011 however, the revised timeline for the remaining exploration period has not been finalized. The fourth exploration period requires the drilling of an additional exploratory well or other equivalent work commitments, such as conducting a seismic data survey. A performance bond of $1.0 million was posted for cash collateral of $1.0 million related to the fourth exploration period. The performance bond will be released at the end of the exploration period if the work commitment for that period has been satisfied. In addition, we are required to make technology transfer payments related to training costs of Perupetro professional staff during the exploration phase of $50,000 per year.
On November 21, 2007, we submitted a letter to Perupetro declaring a commercial discovery in the Block Z-1 field. On May 19, 2008 we filed the field development plan (“FDP”) with Perupetro. In November 2010, after obtaining an extension of our original proposed First Date of Commercial Production (“FDCP”), we placed the Corvina field into commercial production. The Albacora field is subject to the well testing program until we place the Albacora field into commercial production. We have installed all of the equipment necessary for the reinjection of gas and water at the Albacora platform, completed tie-ins and tested the equipment, and are working on the final environmental permit to allow us to commission the equipment to start commercial production in Albacora. In the meantime, we have obtained a permit that allows us to flare gas from A-14XD, A-13E and A-9G wells until the permit is obtained. Our request was granted by the DGH to permit testing on the A-12F to allow a determination to be made whether to use this well as either a gas injector or oil producer.
Under the contract, oil exploration, development and production can continue for a total of up to 30 years from the effective date of the contract, and gas exploration, development and production can continue for up to 40 years. In the event a block contains both oil and gas, as is the case in the Block Z-1 contract, the 40-year term may apply to oil exploration and production as well. Royalties under the contract vary from 5% to 20% based on production volumes. Royalties start at 5% if and when production is less than 5,000 Boepd and are capped at 20% if and when production surpasses 100,000 Boepd.
After the third exploration period, we relinquished 25% of the least prospective acreage as stipulated under the terms of the Block Z-1 License Contract as we transitioned into the fourth exploration phase under the license contract. None of
the mapped prospects identified by us were included within the acreage relinquished. At the end of the fourth exploration period, we may keep the remaining contract area, provided we commit to additional exploration activities every two years, for a maximum additional period of up to six years. The additional exploration commitment requires us to drill one exploratory well, or perform ten exploratory work units per each 10,000 hectares (approximately 25,000 acres), every two years for up to a maximum period of six years, in order to keep the remaining contract area.
If we decide not to continue with an additional exploration work program beyond the initial exploration work program, we will only be allowed to keep the fields discovered and the surrounding five kilometer areas for the remainder of the contract life. Currently, we plan to continue our exploration activities to retain the additional area in Block Z-1.
Description of Block XIX and License Contract
Block XIX covers approximately 473,000 acres, lying entirely onshore and adjacent to Block Z-1 in northwest Peru. Geologically, the block lies primarily within the Tumbes Basin of Oligocene-Neogene age, but also covers part of the Talara Basin to the south. Several older wells showed evidence of gas potential in the Mancora formation as well as oil shows from the Heath Formation. The sections of the Tumbes and Talara Basins in Block XIX are primarily exploratory areas and have had limited drilling and seismic activity. However, the Mancora formation is expected to continue from offshore in Block Z-1 in Piedra Redonda through Block XXIII, also under license to us, and into Block XIX, an area which spans approximately fifty miles.
In December 2003, we signed a license contract whereby we acquired a 100% interest in Block XIX. The term for the exploration period is seven years and can be extended under certain circumstances for an additional period of up to four years. If a commercial discovery is made during the exploration period, the contract will allow for the exploration and production of oil for a period of 30 years from the effective date of the contract and the exploration and production of gas for a period of 40 years. In the event a block contains both oil and gas, the 40-year term may apply to oil exploration and production as well. Royalties under the contract vary from 5% to 20% based on production volumes. Royalties start at 5% if and when production is less than 5,000 Boepd and are capped at 20% if and when production surpasses 100,000 Boepd.
The seven-year exploration phase is divided into five periods of 18 months, 24 months, 15 months, 15 months and 12 months, respectively. We are in the fourth exploration period. After satisfying our commitments under the third exploration period by drilling the PLG-1X well in 2011, the fourth exploration period is under suspension while the approval of an environmental impact study by the DGAAE is obtained to conduct a limited 3-D seismic survey. Once approval is obtained, we will reestablish timelines for the remaining exploration periods.
As of December 31, 2011, we had a $585,000 bond posted for $292,500 in cash collateral as required under the license contract. The fifth exploration period will require a performance bond of $585,000. The performance bond amounts are not cumulative, and will be released at the end of each exploration period if the work commitment for that period has been satisfied. In addition, we are required to make technology transfer payments related to training costs of Perupetro professional staff during the exploration phase in the amount of $5,000 per year. We must declare a commercial discovery no later than the end of the last exploration period, including any extensions or deferments.
Under the terms of the Block XIX License Contract, we are required to relinquish 20% of the least prospective licensed acreage by the end of the fourth exploration period. Accordingly, we intend to retain the most prospective acreage identified. At the end of the exploration phase, we may keep the remainder of the contract area, provided we commit to purse and implement an additional work program every two years, up to a maximum of four years. The additional exploration commitment requires us to drill one exploratory well, or conduct certain exploratory working equivalent units, every two years for up to a maximum period of four years, in order to keep the remaining contract area. If we decide not to continue this minimum work program, we will only be allowed to keep the area over the fields discovered, plus a technical security zone around those areas.
Description of Block XXII and License Contract
On November 21, 2007, we signed a license contract whereby we acquired a 100% interest in Block XXII. Block XXII is located onshore in northwest Peru within the Lancones Basin of Cretaceous-Upper Eocene Age and covers an area of approximately 912,000 acres. The Lancones Basin is primarily an exploratory area and has had limited drilling and seismic activity. The southern sector of this block also covers the productive Talara basin of northwest Peru, near the Talara Refinery. The exploration period of the license contract extends over a seven-year period divided into five periods of four periods of 18 months and a final period of 12 months. Under certain circumstances, the exploration periods may be extended for an additional period of up to three years. We are in the second exploration period and are currently awaiting the approval of an
environmental impact study by the DGAAE in order to drill a well. Once approval is obtained, we will reestablish timelines for the remaining exploration periods. Drilling of the well in Block XXII is not expected to begin earlier than 2013. In each subsequent period after the first 18 month period, we are required to drill an exploratory well or perform other equivalent work commitments. If a commercial discovery is made during the exploration period, the contract will allow for the exploration and production of oil for a period of 30 years from the effective date of the contract and the exploration and production of gas for a period of 40 years. In the event a block contains both oil and gas, the 40-year term may apply to oil exploration and production as well. Royalties under the contract vary from 15% to 30% based on production volumes. Royalties start at 15% if production is less than 5,000 Boepd and are capped at 30% if production surpasses 100,000 Boepd.
In connection with the second exploration period, we were required to obtain a $650,000 performance bond that is secured by cash collateral in the amount of $350,000. Performance bond amounts are not cumulative, and will be released at the end of each exploration period if the work commitment for that period has been satisfied.
Under the Block XXII License Contract, we are required to relinquish at least 20% of the least prospective original agreement area at the end of the third period and at least another 30% of the original agreement area at the end of the fourth period such that at the end of the fourth period, we will have released 50% of the original agreement area. Accordingly, we intend to retain the most prospective acreage identified. The contract does not call for any additional relinquishment of acreage within the contract area and we may retain the remaining un-relinquished area for the remainder of the contract life provided we continue executing a minimum work program as defined under the license contract. If we decide not to continue this minimum work program, we will only be allowed to keep the fields discovered and the surrounding five kilometer areas for the remainder of the contract life.
Description of Block XXIII and License Contract
On November 21, 2007, we signed a license contract whereby we acquired a 100% interest in Block XXIII, which consists of approximately 230,000 acres and is located onshore in northwest Peru between Blocks Z-1 and XIX. This block is located in the Tumbes basin, although in its southern section, Talara Basin, sediments may be found deeper. The sections of the Tumbes and Talara Basins in Block XXIII are primarily exploratory areas and have had limited drilling and seismic activity. The exploration period of the license contract extends over a seven-year period divided into two periods of 18 months and two periods of 24 months. We are in the second exploration period; however, the 18-month timeframe to conduct exploration activities is on suspension until an approval of an environmental impact study, by the DGAAE, in order to drill a well is obtained. Once approval is obtained, we will reestablish timelines for the remaining exploration periods. If a commercial discovery is made during the exploration period, the contract will allow for the exploration and production of oil for a period of 30 years from the effective date of the contract and the exploration and production of gas for a period of 40 years. In the event a block contains both oil and gas, the 40-year term may apply to oil exploration and production as well. Royalties under the contract vary from 15% to 30% based on production volumes. Royalties start at 15% if production is less than 5,000 Boepd and are capped at 30% if production surpasses 100,000 Boepd.
In connection with the second exploration period, we were required to obtain a performance bond of $3,390,000 that is secured by cash collateral in the amount of $1,695,000. Performance bond amounts are not cumulative, and will be released at the end of each exploration period if the work commitment for that period has been satisfied.
Under the Blocks XXIII License Contract, we are required to relinquish 20% of the least prospective original agreement area at the end of the third period and at least another 30% of the original agreement area at the end of the fourth period such that at the end of the fourth period, we will have released 50% of the original agreement area. Accordingly, we intend to retain the most prospective acreage identified. The contract does not call for any additional relinquishment of acreage within the contract area and we may retain the remaining un-relinquished area for the remainder of the contract life provided we continue executing an exploration work program as defined under the license contract. If we decide not to continue this exploration work program, we will only be allowed to keep the fields discovered and the surrounding five kilometer areas for the remainder of the contract life.
Proved Reserves
Our estimated proved oil reserve quantities were prepared by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), independent petroleum engineers. NSAI was chosen based on its knowledge and experience of the region in which we operate. Numerous uncertainties arise in estimating quantities of proved reserves and projecting future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. These uncertainties are greater for properties which are undeveloped or have a limited production history, such as our properties in Northern Peru. Our actual reserves, future rates of production and timing of development expenditures may vary substantially from these estimates. See Item 1A “Risk Factors,” Our reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate” for further information. All of our proved reserves are in the Corvina and
Albacora fields. Our net quantities of proved developed and undeveloped reserves of crude oil and standardized measure of future net cash flows are reflected in the table below. For further information about the basis of presentation of these amounts, see the “Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures (Unaudited)” under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” contained herein.
As of December 31, 2011, we owned a 100% working interest in the Corvina and Albacora fields that require Peruvian government royalties of 5% to 20% of revenue depending on the level of production. The effect of these royalty interest payments is reflected in the calculation of our net proved reserves. Our estimate of proved reserves has been prepared under the assumption that our license contract will allow production for the possible 40-year term for both oil and gas, as more fully discussed under “Description of Block Z-1” above.
Net Proved Crude Oil Reserves and Future Net Cash Flows
As of December 31, 2011
Based on Average First Day-of-the-Month Fiscal-Year Prices
(1) Estimated future capital expenditures includes amount expected to be incurred in 2012 for the CX-15 platform that is expected to be placed in operation at the Corvina field.
These estimates are based upon a reserve report prepared by NSAI, independent petroleum engineers. NSAI used internally developed reserve estimates and criteria in compliance with the SEC guidelines based on data provided by us. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Proved Reserves,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows” and “Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosure,” in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” NSAI’s report is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 10-K.
The reserve volumes and values were determined under the method prescribed by the SEC, which, effective December 31, 2009, requires the use of an average oil price, calculated as the twelve-month first day of the month historical average price for the twelve-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions. Prior to December 31, 2009, the SEC rules required the use of year-end prices.
As of December 31, 2011, we did not have any proved undeveloped reserves previously disclosed that have remained undeveloped for five years or more.
Qualifications of Technical Persons and Internal Controls Over Reserves Estimation Process
Our policies regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves estimates requires reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance and prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering principles.
Our Chief Operating Officer is responsible for compliance in reserves bookings and utilizes the reserves estimates made by our third party reserve consultant, NSAI, for the preparation of our reserve report. Our Chief Operating Officer is a chemical engineer with over 35 years of supervisory and operating experience in the domestic and international oil and gas industry. He holds a Bachelor of Science Degree in Chemical Engineering from Louisiana State University.
In addition, the Board of Directors has established a Technical Committee to provide review and oversight of our determination and certification of oil and gas reserves. In providing review and oversight, the Committee may review the propriety of our methodology and procedures for determining the oil and gas reserves as well as the reserves estimates resulting from such methodology and procedures. The Technical Committee may also review the qualifications, independence and performance of our independent reserve engineers.
The reserves estimates shown herein have been independently audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (NSAI), a worldwide leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations and government agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No.. Within NSAI, the technical persons primarily responsible for auditing the estimates set forth in the NSAI audit letter incorporated herein are Mr. Dan Smith and Mr. John Hattner. Mr. Smith has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 1980. Mr. Smith is a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas (No. 49093) and has over 30 years of practical experience in petroleum engineering and in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. He graduated from Mississippi State University in 1973 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Petroleum Engineering. Mr. Hattner has been practicing consulting petroleum geology at NSAI since 1991. Mr. Hattner is a Licensed Professional Geoscientist in the State of Texas, Geology (No. 559) and has over 30 years of practical experience in petroleum geosciences, with over 20 years experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. He graduated from University of Miami, Florida, in 1976 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Geology; from Florida State University in 1980 with a Master of Science Degree in Geological Oceanography; and from Saint Mary’s College of California in 1989 with a Master of Business Administration Degree. Both technical principals meet or exceed the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; both are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
Reserve Technologies
The SEC’s revised rules, effective as of year-end 2009 reporting, expanded the technologies that a company can use to establish reserves. The SEC now allows use of techniques that have been proved effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that have been field tested and have been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. We used a combination of production and pressure performance, wireline wellbore measurements, analytical and simulation studies, offset analogies, seismic data and interpretation, geological data, interpretation, and modeling, wireline formation tests, geophysical logs and core data, and laboratory fluid studies to calculate our reserves estimates.
Development of Proved Reserves
As of December 31, 2011, we had proved reserves of 34.7 MMBbls which represents a decrease from the proved reserves at December 31, 2010 of 38.9 MMBbls. The proved reserves associated with proved developed producing wells decreased by 0.9 MMBbls to 4.5 MMBbls in 2011 from 5.4 MMBbls in 2010. Reductions to proved developed non-producing reserves were 4.7 MMBbls, bringing the total of proved developed non-producing reserves at December 31, 2011 to 2.1 MMBbls compared to 6.8 MMBbls in 2010. The reserves associated with proved undeveloped areas increased by 1.5 MMBbls to 28.1 MMBbls at December 31, 2011 from 26.6 MMBbls in 2010.
Production, Average Sales Price and Production Costs.
The following table presents our oil sales volumes, average realized sales prices per Bbl and average production costs per Bbl for the indicated periods.
(1) We inventory our oil that has not been sold. Therefore, per unit costs, after allocating operating costs to inventory, are based on sales volume.
(2) Production costs include oil production, transportation and workover costs as well as field maintenance and repair costs.
Acreage; Productive Wells
The following table shows approximately the number of developed and undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2011:
The number of productive development wells at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 11.0, 10.0 and 7.0, respectively.
Drilling Activity
The number of productive oil wells drilled in 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 2.0, 3.0, and 3.0, respectively. We drilled one exploratory well in 2011, the PLG-1X, which we deemed to be a dry hole in the fourth quarter 2011. We drilled one exploratory well in 2010, the A-17D, which we deemed to be a dry hole in September 2010. In connection with the declaration as a dry hole of the A-17D well we also wrote off the two previous attempts to drill this well, the A-15D and the A-16D wells. We did not drill any exploratory wells or have any dry holes in 2009. The following lists our successful development wells that were drilled during the year ended December 31, 2011:
Successful exploratory and development wells refers to the number of wells completed at any time during the fiscal year, regardless of when drilling was initiated. For the purpose of this table, the term “completed” refers to the installation of equipment for the production of oil or natural gas.
In the fourth quarter of 2011, we also completed the drilling of the A-12F development well with a total drilling depth of 12,665 feet. However, as we are considering using one of the wells, the A-12F, the A-13E, or the A-9G, as a gas injection well we are only including two of the three wells in the chart above.
2012 Activities
Corvina Field
During 2012, the reservoir management program, initiated during the fourth quarter of 2011, has, thus far, stabilized production from the field. The field is contributing approximately 75% of our total oil production. Management plans to install hydraulic jet pumps on the CX11-14D and CX11-18XD wells to stimulate and enhance the performance of these wells.
The contracts to fabricate, mobilize and install the new CX-15 platform, which includes all of the necessary production and reinjection equipment, at the Corvina field were signed in the third quarter of 2011. Fabrication is ongoing. Installation in Peru remains scheduled for the third quarter of 2012 with first production expected during the fourth quarter of 2012.
Albacora Field
During 2012, the field has, thus far, consistently contributed approximately 25% to our total oil production. We are evaluating how best to proceed developing the Albacora field. Of the three existing wells, the A-13E, the A12F and the A-9G, we are considering using one as a gas injector, with the other two wells being oil and gas producers. The gas flaring permit previously requested to open the A-12F well to test targeted oil zones and determine whether gas injection is optimal in either the A-12F or A-13E wells was approved in early 2012. While the evaluation of which well to use as a gas injector is being made, we have installed a hydraulic jet pump on the A-9G well to assist in performance.
While we have not received the permit to reinject gas at the Albacora field, we have installed and tested the production, and gas and water reinjection equipment and are ready to reinject the gas and water once the environmental permit is received. In the meantime, we have obtained a permit that allows us to flare gas from A-14XD, A-13E and A-9G wells until the permit is obtained.
Block Z-1 Seismic Acquisition
The seismic survey to acquire approximately 1,607 square kms of 3-D seismic has begun and is expected to be completed during the second quarter of 2012. We have acquired approximately 800 square kms to date of data. After the seismic data is acquired, the data will be processed and interpreted.
Block XXII
With the three leads and one prospect defined by the two dimensional (“2-D”) seismic data, we have notified Perupetro that our commitment for the second exploration period will be the drilling of one well. The timing of the actual drilling will depend on approval of the environment assessment, which is currently being prepared, and subsequent receipt of the necessary permits. Drilling on Block XXII is expected no earlier than 2013.
Block XXIII
In May 2011, we received an extension from Perupetro for the first exploration period in Block XXIII, which expired in December 2011. As a result of the completion of the first exploration period, we are reestablishing timelines for the remaining exploration periods. This extension allowed us more time to process and interpret the 3-D seismic data and 2-D seismic data we acquired. The processing of both the 2-D and 3-D seismic acquired by us for Block XXIII has been completed and is being evaluated. We have begun the process to obtain environmental permits for the potential drilling of prospects identified by the data in Block XXIII.
Marine Operations
During the first quarter of 2012, the third party operator previously contracting the PX-18 rig and BPZ-02 vessel has returned the rig and vessel to us in accordance with the terms of the contract. The rig is expected to remain idle unless we exercise a cancellation option. The BPZ-02 will return to supporting our exploration and production activities in Block Z-1.
Property in Ecuador
Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, SMC Ecuador Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its registered branch in Ecuador, we also own a 10% non-operated net profits interest in an oil and gas producing property, Block 2, located in the southwest region of Ecuador (the “Santa Elena Property”). The Santa Elena Property (operated by Pacifpetrol) is located west of the city of Guayaquil along the coast of Ecuador. Almost 3,000 wells have been drilled in the field since production began in the 1920s. There are approximately 1,300 active wells which produce approximately 1,300 barrels of oil per day. The majority of the wells produce intermittently by gas lift, mechanical pump or swabbing techniques. Crude oil is gathered in holding tanks and pumped via pipeline to an oil refinery in the city of Libertad, Ecuador. The agreement covering the property extends through May 2016.
ITEM 3.