ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Offices
Our corporate headquarters office is in Houston, Texas, where we lease approximately 13,300 square feet of office space under a lease agreement which expires in February 2016. We also currently lease administrative offices and warehouses in Peru. The administrative office and warehouse leased areas are approximately 11,600 square feet and 101,000 square feet, respectively. The administrative office lease expires in March 2019 and the warehouse lease expires in July 2038. Additionally, we lease an administrative office in Quito, Ecuador of 829 square feet under a month-to-month lease.
Properties in Peru
We currently have rights to four properties in northwest Peru. We have working interests in license contracts of 51% in Block Z-1, 100% in Block XIX, 100% in Block XXII and 100% in Block XXIII. The license contracts afford an initial exploration phase of seven years. As described below, each license contract provides for additional exploration periods which can extend the exploration phase of the license contract. If exploration efforts are successful, the license contract’s term can extend up to 30 years for oil production and up to 40 years for gas production. In the event a block contains both oil and gas, as is the case in the Block Z-1 contract, the 40-year term may apply to oil production as well. These four blocks cover a combined area of approximately 2.2 million gross acres.
The following table is a summary of our properties in northwest Peru. As of December 31, 2013, only acreage in Block Z-1 has been partially developed.
(1)
Does not include the CX11-16X well which tested quantities of gas which we believe to be of commercial amounts and is currently shut-in. Until such time as sufficient funding has been secured and the necessary infrastructure is in place for our gas-to power project, we cannot classify any of these reserves as proved SEC reserves nor refer to the well as productive.
(2)
Includes all oil producing wells we have developed. At December 31, 2013, nine gross (4.6 net) wells were producing consistently and four gross (2.0 net) wells were producing intermittently.
(3)
Does not include the CX11-22D well which has been converted to a gas and water reinjection well, the A-12F well which has been converted to a gas reinjection well or the A-17D well which is a water reinjection well.
Description of Block Z-1 and License Contract
Block Z-1, a coastal offshore area encompassing approximately 555,000 gross acres, is situated at the southern end of the Gulf of Guayaquil in northwest Peru. Geologically, the block lies within the Tumbes Basin. From the coastline, water depths increase gradually. The average water depth of the area is approximately 200 feet and approximately 10% of the area has depths ranging from 500 feet up to 1,000 feet. Located within Block Z-1 are five structures which were drilled in the 1970s and 1980s by previous operators, including Tenneco Inc. and Belco Oil and Gas Corporation (“Belco”). These structures are known as the Albacora, Barracuda, Corvina, Delfin and Piedra Redonda fields. With the exception of the Barracuda field, the other four fields have had exploration wells drilled that tested positive for oil or gas in what we believe to be economic quantities while drilling at depths ranging from 6,000 to 12,000 feet. However, at the time the wells were drilled, it was not considered economically viable to produce and sell natural gas from the fields. Consequently, the wells were either suspended or abandoned.
In the Corvina field, five wells were drilled, including two wells drilled by Tenneco Inc. in the mid-1970s and three wells drilled by Belco in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Two drilling and production platforms were set up by Belco during this period in the Corvina field. The first platform was located in the East Corvina prospect field and, based on the engineering study, was not suitable for our future development plans and therefore requires us to build a new platform prior to initiating any drilling activities in this section of the Corvina field. The second platform, CX-11, is located in the West Corvina development field and is currently being used in our West Corvina drilling and production activities. All five of the previously drilled wells in the Corvina field encountered indications of natural gas and apparent reservoir-quality formations. In September 2012, our new CX-15 platform was anchored at the West Corvina field location, one mile south of the existing CX-11 platform. We completed the installation of the new CX-15 platform in the West Corvina field, and in July 2013 we spudded the first development well from the platform. Production from the first well began in October 2013. We have subsequently drilled and completed the second well and spudded our third well from this platform.
In the Albacora field, the original drilling and production platform, the A platform, was set by Tenneco Inc. in the mid-1970s, after discovering oil and gas with the 8X-2 well. Tenneco Inc. drilled two wells from that platform that were plugged and abandoned. In the late 1970s, Belco drilled three oil wells which produced oil for a very limited time. The Albacora field is located in the northern part of our offshore Block Z-1. The A platform is still in place in the Albacora field and has been repaired, refurbished and placed into service by us. In late 2009, we completed the A-14XD oil well that is still producing, and in 2010 we drilled a second well that was considered dry and was later converted into a water disposal well. After interpreting the new 3-D seismic, we spudded a new development well from the A platform in September 2013 which was completed and put into production in December 2013. We spudded a second development well in January 2014.
In the Piedra Redonda field, two wells were drilled by Belco in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Indications of natural gas were present in both wells. One well was completed and tested gas on a long-term test, while the other well encountered abnormally high pressures and was abandoned for mechanical reasons prior to reaching its intended total depth. After conducting engineering feasibility studies, we have determined the existing platform located in the Piedra Redonda field is not suitable for our future development plans and therefore we must consider other options for development in this field. In any case, we do not expect to recomplete the previously drilled and completed well by Belco due to our uncertainty of the mechanical condition and potentially high wellhead pressure of the well.
We originally acquired our initial interest in Block Z-1 in a joint venture with Syntroleum Peru Holdings Limited, Sucursal del Peru, under an exploration and production license contract dated November 30, 2001, with an effective date of January 29, 2002. Under the original contract, BPZ owned a 5% non-operating working interest, along with the right of first refusal, in the Block. Syntroleum later transferred its interest to Nuevo Peru ltd., Sucursal del Peru. Subsequent to the merger of Nuevo Energy, Inc. and Plains Exploration and Production Company, Nuevo Energy, Inc. transferred its interest in Block Z-1 to BPZ which then assumed a 100% working interest, as well as the remaining obligations under the contract. Perupetro approved the assumption of Nuevo’s interest by BPZ and the designation of BPZ as a qualified operator under the contract in November 2004. This action was subject to official ratification and issuance of a Supreme Decree by the government of Peru, which was issued in February 2005. Accordingly, an amended contract was signed with Perupetro naming BPZ as the owner of 100% of the participation under the License Contract.
In December 2012, we completed the sale of a 49% participating interest in the Block Z-1 License Contract to Pacific Rubiales. We now own 51% participating interest in Block Z-1.
The License Contract provides for an initial exploration phase of seven years, and a three year extension of this phase at the discretion of Perupetro upon application by the Operator. Each period has a commitment for exploration activities and requires a financial guarantee to secure the performance of the work commitment during such period. Block Z-1 is currently in the exploitation phase.
The Block Z-1 License Contract permits us to keep the current contract area under exploration for a total of six additional years divided in three two-year periods with each committing us to additional exploration activities. The additional exploration commitment requires us to drill one exploratory well, or perform ten exploratory work units per each 10,000 hectares (approximately 25,000 acres), every two years for up to a maximum period of six years, in order to keep the remaining area under contract. We received approval from Perupetro for the initial two-year period and have committed to drill an exploratory well. The end date for the initial two-year period will be determined from the agreed approval date of the environmental permit with Perupetro.
A performance bond of $1.1 million was posted for cash collateral of $1.1 million related to the exploitation period. The performance bond will be released at the end of the exploitation period if the work commitment for that period has been satisfied. In addition, we are required to make technology transfer payments related to training costs of Perupetro professional staff during the exploration phase of $50,000 per year.
On November 21, 2007, we submitted a letter to Perupetro declaring a commercial discovery in the Block Z-1 field. On May 19, 2008 we filed the field development plan with Perupetro. In November 2010, after obtaining an extension of our original proposed First Date of Commercial Production, we placed the Block Z-1 into commercial production.
Royalties under the contract vary from 5% to 20% based on production volumes on the entire Block. Royalties start at 5% if and when production is less than 5,000 Boepd and are capped at 20% if and when production surpasses 100,000 Boepd.
If we decide not to continue with an additional exploration work program beyond the initial exploration work program, we will only be allowed to keep each field discovered and the surrounding five kilometer area for the remainder of the contract life. Currently, we plan to continue our exploration activities to retain the additional area in Block Z-1.
Description of Block XIX and License Contract
Block XIX covers approximately 473,000 gross acres, lying entirely onshore and adjacent to Block Z-1 in northwest Peru. Geologically, the Block lies primarily within the Tumbes Basin of Oligocene-Neogene age, but also covers part of the Talara Basin to the south. Several older wells showed evidence of gas potential in the Mancora formation as well as oil shows from the Heath Formation. The sections of the Tumbes and Talara Basins in Block XIX are primarily exploratory areas and have had limited drilling and seismic activity. However, based on our assessment of available data, we expect the Mancora formation to continue from offshore in Block Z-1 in Piedra Redonda through Block XXIII, also under license to us, and into Block XIX, an area which spans approximately fifty miles.
In December 2003, we signed a license contract whereby we acquired a 100% interest in Block XIX. The term for the exploration period in Block XIX is seven years and can be extended under certain circumstances for an additional period of up to four years. If a commercial discovery is made during the exploration period, the contract will allow for the production of oil for a period of 30 years from the effective date of the contract and the production of gas for a period of 40 years. In the event a block contains both oil and gas, the 40-year term may apply to oil production as well. Royalties under the contract vary from 5% to 20% based on production volumes in the entire Block. Royalties start at 5% if and when production is less than 5,000 Boepd and are capped at 20% if and when production surpasses 100,000 Boepd.
The seven-year exploration phase in the Block XIX License Contract is divided into five periods of 18 months, 24 months, 15 months, 15 months and 12 months, respectively. We are in the fourth exploration period. After satisfying our commitments under the third exploration period by drilling the PLG-1X well in 2011, the fourth exploration period is under suspension while the approval of an environmental impact study by the DGAAE is obtained to conduct a limited 3-D seismic survey. We have received approval from Perupetro to conduct a limited 3-D seismic survey as part of our minimum work commitment for the fourth exploration period to further evaluate future drilling locations. An environmental assessment is currently in process to obtain an environmental permit for the additional seismic work. Once approval is obtained, we will reestablish timelines for the remaining exploration periods.
As of December 31, 2013, we had a $585,000 bond posted for $292,500 in cash collateral as required under the License Contract. The fifth exploration period will require a performance bond of $585,000. The performance bond amounts are not cumulative, and will be released at the end of each exploration period if the work commitment for that period has been satisfied. In addition, we are required to make technology transfer payments related to training costs of Perupetro professional staff during the exploration phase in the amount of $5,000 per year. We must declare a commercial discovery no later than the end of the last exploration period, including any extensions or deferments in order to retain the block.
Under the terms of the Block XIX License Contract, we are required to relinquish 20% of the least promising licensed acreage by the end of the fourth exploration period. Accordingly, we intend to retain the most promising acreage identified. At the end of the exploration phase, we may keep the remainder of the contract area, provided we commit to pursue and implement an additional work program every two years, for up to a maximum of four years. The additional exploration commitment requires us to drill one exploratory well, or conduct certain exploratory working equivalent units, every two years, for up to a maximum period of four years, in order to keep the remaining contract area. If we decide not to continue this minimum work program, we will only be allowed to keep the area over the fields discovered, plus a technical security zone around those areas.
Description of Block XXII and License Contract
On November 21, 2007, we signed a license contract whereby we acquired a 100% interest in Block XXII. Block XXII is located onshore in northwest Peru within the Lancones Basin of Cretaceous-Upper Eocene Age and covers an area of approximately 912,000 gross acres. The Lancones Basin, which includes the Muerto play, is primarily an exploratory area and has had limited drilling and seismic activity. The southern sector of this Block also covers the productive Talara basin of northwest Peru, near the Talara Refinery. The exploration period of the License Contract extends over a seven-year period divided into five periods of four periods of 18 months and a final period of 12 months. Under certain circumstances, the exploration periods may be extended for an additional period of up to three years. We are in the second exploration period and are currently awaiting the approval of an environmental impact study by the DGAAE in order to drill an exploratory well. We plan to conduct an additional 2-D seismic program as confirmation of potential drilling locations, and plan to drill exploratory wells after receipt of the necessary environmental permits. The timing of the actual drilling will depend on approval of the environmental permit, which is in process, and subsequent receipt of the necessary ancillary permits. Once approval is obtained, we will reestablish timelines for the remaining exploration periods. Drilling of the well in Block XXII is expected in late 2014 or 2015. In each subsequent period after the first 18 month period, we are required to drill an exploratory well or perform other equivalent work commitments. If a commercial discovery is made during the exploration period, the contract will allow for the production of oil for a period of 30 years from the effective date of the contract and the production of gas for a period of 40 years. In the event a block contains both oil and gas, the 40-year term may apply to oil production as well. Royalties under the contract vary from 15% to 30% based on production volumes in the entire Block. Royalties start at 15% if production is less than 5,000 Boepd and are capped at 30% if production surpasses 100,000 Boepd.
In connection with the second exploration period, we were required to obtain a $650,000 performance bond that is secured by cash collateral in the amount of $350,000. Performance bond amounts are not cumulative, and will be released at the end of each exploration period if the work commitment for that period has been satisfied.
Under the Block XXII License Contract, we are required to relinquish at least 20% of the least prospective licensed acreage at the end of the third period and at least another 30% of the least prospective licensed acreage at the end of the fourth period such that at the end of the fourth period, we will have released 50% of the original agreement area. Accordingly, we intend to retain the most prospective acreage identified. The contract does not call for any additional relinquishment of acreage within the contract area and we may retain the remaining un-relinquished area for the remainder of the contract life provided we continue executing a minimum work program as defined under the License Contract. If we decide not to continue this minimum work program, we will only be allowed to keep the fields discovered and the surrounding five kilometer areas for the remainder of the contract life.
Description of Block XXIII and License Contract
On November 21, 2007, we signed a license contract whereby we acquired a 100% interest in Block XXIII, which consists of approximately 230,000 gross acres and is located onshore in northwest Peru between Blocks Z-1 and XIX. This Block is located in the Tumbes Basin, although in its southern section, the Talara Basin, sediments may be found deeper. The sections of the Tumbes and Talara Basins in Block XXIII are primarily exploratory areas and have had limited drilling and seismic activity. The exploration period of the License Contract extends over a seven-year period divided into two periods of 18 months and two periods of 24 months. We are in the second exploration period which expires in July 2014. We are required to complete 678 exploration work units which will determine the number of wells drilled in the second exploration period. Drilling on Block XXIII began in January 2014. If a commercial discovery is made during the exploration period, the contract will allow for the production of oil for a period of 30 years from the effective date of the contract and the production of gas for a period of 40 years. In the event the block contains both oil and gas, the 40-year term may apply to oil production as well. Royalties under the contract vary from 15% to 30% based on production volumes in the entire Block. Royalties start at 15% if production is less than 5,000 Boepd and are capped at 30% if production surpasses 100,000 Boepd.
In connection with the second exploration period, we were required to obtain a performance bond of $3.4 million that is secured by cash collateral in the amount of $1.7 million. Performance bond amounts are not cumulative, and will be released at the end of each exploration period if the work commitment for that period has been satisfied.
Under the Block XXIII License Contract, we are required to relinquish 20% of the least prospective licensed acreage at the end of the third period and at least another 30% of the least prospective licensed acreage at the end of the fourth period such that at the end of the fourth period, we will have released 50% of the original agreement area. Accordingly, we intend to retain the most prospective acreage identified. The contract does not call for any additional relinquishment of acreage within the contract area and we may retain the remaining un-relinquished area for the remainder of the contract life provided we continue executing an exploration work program as defined under the License Contract. If we decide not to continue this exploration work program, we will only be allowed to keep the fields discovered and the surrounding five kilometer areas for the remainder of the contract life.
Proved Reserves
Our estimated proved oil reserve quantities were prepared by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), independent petroleum engineers. NSAI was chosen based on its knowledge and experience of the region in which we operate. Numerous interpretations and assumptions are made in estimating quantities of proved reserves and projecting future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. The accuracy of any reserves estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Our actual reserves, future rates of production and timing of development expenditures may vary substantially from these estimates. See Item 1A Risk Factors, “Our reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate,” and “As of December 31, 2013, we had eight proved undeveloped reserve locations in the Corvina filed or 5.0 MMBbls included in our proved oil reserves that are scheduled to be drilled after five years from initial disclosure” for further information. All of our proved reserves are in the Corvina and Albacora fields. Our net quantities of proved developed and undeveloped reserves of crude oil and standardized measure of future net cash flows are reflected in the table below. For further information about the basis of presentation of these amounts, see the “Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures (Unaudited)” under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” contained herein.
As of December 31, 2013, we owned a 51% working interest in the Corvina and Albacora fields that require Peruvian government royalties of 5% to 20% of revenue depending on the level of production. The effect of these royalty interest payments is reflected in the calculation of our net proved reserves. Our estimate of proved reserves has been prepared under the assumption that our license contract will allow production for the possible 40-year term for both oil and gas, as more fully discussed under “Description of Block Z-1” above.
Net Proved Crude Oil Reserves and Future Net Cash Flows
As of December 31, 2013
Based on Average First Day-of-the-Month Fiscal-Year Prices
These estimates are based upon a reserve report prepared by NSAI, independent petroleum engineers. NSAI used internally developed reserve estimates and criteria in compliance with the SEC guidelines based on data provided by us. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Proved Reserves,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows” and “Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosure,” in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” NSAI’s report is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 10-K.
The reserve volumes and values were determined under the method prescribed by the SEC, which requires the use of an average oil price, calculated as the twelve-month first day of the month historical average price for the twelve-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions.
Qualifications of Technical Persons and Internal Controls Over Reserves Estimation Process
Our policies regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves estimates requires reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance and prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering principles.
Our Vice President of Exploration and Production is responsible for compliance in reserves bookings and utilizes the reserves estimates made by our third party reserve consultant, NSAI, for the preparation of our reserve report. Our Vice President of Exploration and Production is a geologist with over 34 years of supervisory and operating experience in the domestic and international oil and gas industry. Prior to joining BPZ Energy, he was employed by Occidental Petroleum Corporation for over 28 years in both Houston and Peru, where he held several positions including New Ventures Manager for Latin America and Exploration Manager for Peru. He holds a Bachelor of Science in Geological Sciences Degree from the University of Texas and is a Licensed Professional Geologist.
In addition, the Board of Directors has established a Technical Committee to provide review and oversight of our determination and certification of oil and gas reserves. In providing review and oversight, the Committee may review the propriety of our methodology and procedures for determining the oil and gas reserves as well as the reserves estimates resulting from such methodology and procedures. The Technical Committee may also review the qualifications, independence and performance of our independent reserve engineers.
The reserves estimates shown herein have been independently evaluated by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (NSAI), a worldwide leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations and government agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No.. Within NSAI, the technical persons primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the NSAI reserves report incorporated herein are Mr. Dan Paul Smith and Mr. Mike K. Norton. Mr. Smith has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 1980. Mr. Smith is a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas (No. 49093) and has over 40 years of practical experience in petroleum engineering, with over 30 years experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. He graduated from Mississippi State University in 1973 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Petroleum Engineering. Mr. Norton has been practicing consulting petroleum geology at NSAI since 1989. Mr. Norton is a Licensed Professional Geoscientist in the State of Texas, Geology (No. 441) and has over 34 years of practical experience in petroleum geosciences, with over 24 years experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. He graduated from Texas A&M University in 1978 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Geology. Both technical principals meet or exceed the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; both are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
Reserve Technologies
The SEC allows use of techniques that have been proved effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that have been field tested and have been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. We used a combination of production and pressure performance, wireline wellbore measurements, analytical and simulation studies, offset analogies, seismic data and interpretation, geological data, interpretation, and modeling, wireline formation tests, geophysical logs and core data, and laboratory fluid studies to calculate our reserves estimates.
Development of Proved Reserves
As of December 31, 2013, we had net proved oil reserves of 16.1 MMBbls which represents a decrease from the net proved oil reserves at December 31, 2012 of 16.4 MMBbls. In December 2012, we completed the sale of a 49% participating interest in the Block Z-1 License Contract. This resulted in sales of reserves in place of 16.4 MMbls of proved reserves. We now own a 51% participating interest in Block Z-1. The net proved oil reserves associated with proved developed producing wells increased by 1.5 MMBbls to 3.2 MMBbls in 2013 from 1.7 MMBbls in 2012. Reductions to proved developed non-producing reserves were 0.4 MMBbls, bringing the total of proved developed non-producing reserves at December 31, 2013 to none compared to 0.4 MMBbls in 2012. The net oil reserves associated with proved undeveloped areas decreased by 1.4 MMBbls to 12.9 MMBbls at December 31, 2013 from 14.3 MMBbls in 2012.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves (“PUD” or “PUDs”)
As of December 31, 2013, 12.9 MMBbls of PUDs were reported, a decrease of 1.4 MMBbls from December 2012. The following table shows changes in the PUDS for 2013:
In 2013, we had negative revisions to PUDs of 1.1 MMBbls of previous estimates due to performance revisions for the Corvina field.
In 2013, we converted 0.8 MMBbls, or 5.6% of total year-end 2012 PUDs to developed status. As of December 31, 2013, we had a total quantity of 21 PUD locations contributing 12.9 MMBbls to our 2013 proved oil reserves. Of the total 21 PUDs, 17 PUDs are associated with the Corvina field and 4 PUD locations are associated with the Albacora field. Costs incurred to advance the development of PUDs associated with Block Z-1 in 2013 were approximately $70.6 million, which was reimbursed by our partner in Block Z-1, Pacific Rubiales. Costs incurred to advance the development of PUDs associated with Block Z-1 in 2012 were approximately $60.2 million, of which $56.8 million was reimbursed by our partner in Block Z-1, Pacific Rubiales. Costs incurred to advance the development of PUDs associated with Block Z-1 in 2011 were approximately $26.6 million. As of December 31, 2013, we had 8 PUD locations in the Corvina field or 5.0 MMBbls included in our proved oil reserves that are scheduled to be drilled after five years of initial disclosure. Other than the PUD amounts in such 8 locations, as of December 31, 2013, we did not have any PUDs previously disclosed that have remained undeveloped for five years or more since initial disclosure. All 8 PUD locations scheduled to be drilled after five years are the result of unexpected governmental permitting delays, facilities limitations on the CX-11 offshore platform and contractual and construction issues related to the CX-15 offshore platform in Block Z-1 located in environmentally sensitive, remote locations. The 8 PUDs are located in areas where we continue to actively drill.
In December 2012, the Company completed the sale of a 49% participating interest in the Block Z-1 License Contract. The Company now owns a 51% participating interest in Block Z-1.
Production, Average Sales Price and Production Costs.
The following table presents our oil sales volumes, average realized sales prices per Bbl and average production costs per Bbl for the indicated periods.
(1)
We inventory our oil that has not been sold. Therefore, per unit costs, after allocating operating costs to inventory, are based on sales volume.
(2)
Production costs include the oil production, transportation and workover costs as well as field maintenance and repair costs.
Acreage; Productive Wells
The following table shows the approximate number of developed and undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2013:
The number of gross and net productive development wells at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 were 13.0 gross (6.6 net), 11.0 (5.6 net) and 11.0 (gross and net), respectively.
Drilling Activity
The number of gross and net productive oil wells drilled in 2013, 2012 and 2011 were 2.0 gross (1.0 net), none, and 2.0 (gross and net), respectively. We did not drill any exploratory wells or have any dry holes in 2013 or 2012. We drilled one exploratory well (gross and net) in 2011, the PLG-1X in Block XIX, which we deemed to be a dry hole in the fourth quarter 2011. The following lists our successful development wells that were drilled during the year ended December 31, 2013:
Successful exploratory and development wells refers to the number of wells completed at any time during the fiscal year, regardless of when drilling was initiated. For the purpose of this table, the term “completed” refers to the installation of equipment for the production of oil or natural gas.
The following table shows the number of wells in the process of drilling or in active completion stages and the number of wells suspended or waiting on completion at December 31, 2013:
Wells suspended or waiting on completion include exploration and development wells where drilling has occurred, but the wells are awaiting resumption of drilling or other completion activities.
2014 Activities
Block Z-1
Corvina Field
We spudded the second development well from the CX-15 platform, the CX15-2D well, in November 2013, and it was completed in January 2014. We drilled the CX15-2D well near the existing CX11-18XD well to a measured depth of approximately 9,000 feet. Production from the CX15-2D well began in February 2014. We spudded the third development well from the CX-15 platform, the CX15-3D well, in February 2014.
Albacora Field
We spudded a development well, the A-19D, from the A platform in the Albacora field of Block Z-1 on January 1, 2014. The target depth of the A-19D well is approximately 12,400 feet. The A-19D well began production on March 1, 2014.
Block Z-1 Seismic
The joint technical team continues to interpret the Block Z-1 3-D seismic data.
Block XIX
We have received approval from Perupetro to conduct a limited 3-D seismic survey as part of our minimum work commitment for the fourth exploration period to further evaluate future drilling locations. The environmental assessment process is underway to obtain an environmental permit for the additional seismic work.
Block XXII
The timing of the additional seismic work and actual drilling on Block XXII will depend on approval of the environment assessment, which is underway, and subsequent receipt of the necessary ancillary permits. Drilling on Block XXII is expected in late 2014 or 2015.
Block XXIII
We spudded an exploration well, the Caracol 1X, on January 5, 2014. This is the first of three exploratory wells we plan to drill in Block XXIII in 2014. The target depth of the Caracol 1X well is approximately 3,500 feet. Logs have been run after reaching total depth to determine testing intervals, and casing has now been set to test the selected intervals. A number of intervals have been selected for testing and the testing is ongoing.
Marine
In December 2013, we entered into a Management Services Agreement with a third party marine operator to manage our marine fleet. We transferred our BPZ Marine S.R.L. employees to the new operator.
Property in Ecuador
Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, SMC Ecuador Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its registered branch in Ecuador, we also own a 10% non-operating net profits interest in an oil and gas producing property, Block 2, located in the southwest region of the Santa Elena Property. The Santa Elena Property (operated by Pacifpetrol) is located west of the city of Guayaquil along the coast of Ecuador. Almost 3,000 wells have been drilled in the field since production began in the 1920s. There are approximately 1,300 active wells which produce approximately 1,300 barrels of oil per day. The majority of the wells produce intermittently by gas lift, mechanical pump or swabbing techniques. Crude oil is gathered in holding tanks and pumped via pipeline to an oil refinery in the city of Libertad, Ecuador. In May 2013, the license agreement and operating agreement covering the property were extended from May 2016 to December 2029.
In 2013, the Consortium, which includes us and three other partners, in order to extend the term of the contract from 2016 to 2029, agreed to additional work commitments to increase production in the Santa Elena field. Our total share of this commitment over the remaining life of the contract is $5.2 million (our 10% non-operating net profits interest) which amount is due throughout the period of 2014 through 2028. This commitment should be funded by cash on hand and cash generated from new production of the partnership. If the partnership does not have sufficient cash on hand, we may elect to make a cash contribution to the partnership for our 10% share of the commitment. If we elect not to make our 10% share contribution of the commitment, we would lose our rights in the Consortium and the Contract at the Santa Elena field.
ITEM 3.