ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Offices
Our corporate headquarters office is located in Houston, Texas. In November 2008, we entered into a coterminous lease for the existing office space extending the current leased space of approximately 7,770 square feet of office space and 2,580 square feet of adjacent office space. This new lease extends the old lease terms seven-years and expires on January 31, 2016. Under this new lease agreement, we are obligated to lease an additional 7,070 square feet of office space with lease payments commencing in March of 2009. We also currently lease four administrative offices and a warehouse in Peru of approximately 12,100 square feet and 57,000 square feet, respectively. The leases expire at various times in 2009 and 2010. In 2008, our Lima, office entered into a lease agreement, beginning in March of 2009 and expiring in fourth quarter of 2013, to lease a consolidated office space of approximately 22,500 square feet. Additionally we lease an administrative office in Quito, Ecuador of 829 square feet under a month-to-month lease.
Properties in Peru
We currently have exclusive rights to four properties in northwest Peru. We have a 100% working interest in license contracts for Block Z-1, Block XIX, Block XXII and Block XXIII. The license contracts afford an initial exploration phase of seven and potentially up to ten years (seven and potentially up to thirteen for Block Z-1), and, if exploration efforts are successful, provide a total contract term of up to 30 years for oil exploration and production and up to 40 years for gas exploration and production. These four blocks cover a combined area of approximately 2.4 million acres.
The following table is a summary of our properties in northwest Peru. As of December 31, 2008 only acreage in Block Z-1 has been partially developed.
(1) Does not include the CX11-16X well which tested quantities of gas which we believe to be of commercial amounts and is currently shut-in. Until such time as sufficient funding has been secured for our gas-to power project, we cannot include any of these reserves as part of our SEC reserves nor include the well(s) as productive.
Description of Block Z-1 and License Contract
Block Z-1, a coastal offshore area encompassing approximately 739,205 acres, is situated at the southern end of the Gulf of Guayaquil in northwest Peru. Geologically, the block lies within the Tumbes Basin. From the coastline, water depths increase gradually. The average water depth of the area is approximately 200 feet and approximately 10% of the area has depths ranging from 500 feet up to 1,000 feet. Located within Block Z-1 are five structures which were drilled in the 1970s and 1980s by previous operators, including Tenneco, Inc. and Belco Oil and Gas Corporation (“Belco”). These structures are known as the Albacora, Barracuda, Corvina, Delfin and Piedra Redonda fields. Wells drilled in each of these structures tested positive for oil or gas in what we believe to be economic quantities while drilling at depths ranging from 6,000 to 12,000 feet. However, at the time the wells were drilled, it was not considered economic to produce and sell natural gas from the fields. Consequently, the wells were either suspended or abandoned.
In the Corvina Field, five wells were drilled, including two wells drilled by Tenneco in the mid-1970s and three wells drilled by Belco in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Two drilling and production platforms were set up by Belco during this period and are still in place in the Corvina Field. The platforms need to be repaired and refurbished, but are structurally sound, and we believe suitable for our future operations. All five wells in the Corvina Field encountered indications of natural gas and apparent reservoir-quality formations, although only one of the wells, the CX11-16X, was completed and tested. At the time these wells were drilled, there was no commercial market for natural gas in the region. The CX11-16X produced natural gas at rates as high as 16.6 million cubic feet of gas per day (“MMcf/d”) during two separate tests over a period of approximately 20 days each. The well was shut-in. In June 2007, we successfully recompleted the Corvina CX11-16X well as a natural gas producing well and completed a total of four drill stem tests on various zones in the well including one in a formation previously untested in the entire basin. The tests produced quantities of gas we believe to be in commercial amounts.
In the Piedra Redonda Field, two wells were drilled by Belco in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Indications of natural gas were present in both wells. One well was completed, while the other well encountered abnormally high pressures and was abandoned for mechanical reasons prior to reaching its intended total depth. The completed well in the Piedra Redonda Field, the C18X, produced natural gas at rates as high as 8.3 MMcf/d over a period of approximately 20 days during an extended test in 1979 and was also shut-in.
We originally acquired our initial interest in Block Z-1 in a joint venture with Syntroleum Peru Holdings Limited, sucursal del Peru, under an exploration and production license contract dated November 30, 2001, with an effective date of January 29, 2002. Under the original contract, BPZ owned a 5% non-operating working interest, along with the right of first refusal, in the block. Syntroleum later transferred its interest to Nuevo Peru ltd., sucursal del Peru. Subsequent to the merger of Nuevo Energy, Inc. and Plains Exploration and Production Company, Nuevo Energy, Inc. transferred its interest in Block Z-1 to BPZ which then assumed a 100% working interest, as well as the remaining obligations under the contract. Perupetro approved the assumption of Nuevo’s interest by BPZ and the designation of BPZ as a qualified operator under the contract in November 2004. This action was subject to official ratification and issuance of a Supreme Decree by the government of Peru, which was issued in February 2005. Accordingly, an amended contract was signed with Perupetro, naming BPZ as the owner of 100% of the participation under the license contract.
The license contract provides for an initial exploration phase of seven years, which is divided into four periods, and can be extended under certain circumstances up to an additional six years. Each period has a commitment for exploration
activities and requires a financial guarantee to secure the performance of the work commitment during such period. Block Z-1 is currently in the third exploration period. This period was originally scheduled to expire in November 2008. However, since Albacora Drilling Environmental Impact Study is still pending for approval from DGAAE (Dirección General de Asuntos Ambientales y Energéticos), who is responsible for environmental protection matters in Peru, the third exploration period time limit is on suspension until such approval is obtained from the DGAAE. The fourth and final exploration period will begin as soon as the third period expires. It will also require the drilling of an additional exploratory well or other equivalent work commitments and will require a performance bond of $1.0 million. A performance bond of $1.0 million was posted for cash collateral of $750,000 related to the third exploration period. The performance bond amounts are not cumulative, and are released at the end of each exploration period if the work commitment for that period has been satisfied. In addition, we are required to make technology transfer payments related to training costs of Perupetro professional staff during the exploration phase of $50,000 per year.
On November 21, 2007, we submitted a letter to Perupetro declaring a commercial discovery in the Block Z-1 field. On May 19, 2008 we filed the field development plan with Perupertro. The commercial development period of the contract will commence on the First Date of Commercial production (“FDCP”). The date of beginning of commercial extraction is currently under revision with Perupetro. Under the contract, oil exploration, development and production can continue for a total of up to 30 years from the effective date of the contract, and gas exploration, development and production can continue for up to 40 years. Royalties under the contract vary from 5% to 20% based on production volumes. Royalties start at 5% if and when production is less than 5,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day (boepd) and are capped at 20% if and when production surpasses 100,000 boepd.
Description of Block XIX and License Contract
Block XIX covers approximately 472,860 acres, lying entirely onshore and adjacent to Block Z-1 in northwest Peru. Geologically, the block lies primarily within the Tumbes Basin of Oligocene-Neogene age, but also covers part of the Talara Basin to the south. Several older wells showed evidence of gas potential in the Mancora formation as well as oil show from the Heath Formation. The sections of the Tumbes and Talara Basins in Block XIX are primarily exploratory areas and have had limited drilling and seismic activity. However, the Mancora formation is expected to continue from offshore in Block Z-1 in Piedra Redonda through Block XXIII, also under license to us, and into Block XIX an area which spans approximately fifty miles.
In February 2003, we entered into a Technical Evaluation Agreement with Perupetro for Block XIX. In December 2003, we signed a license contract whereby we acquired a 100% interest in Block XIX. The term for the exploration period is seven years and can be extended under certain circumstances for an additional period of up to three years. If a commercial discovery is made during the exploration period, the contract will allow for the exploration and production of oil for a period of 30 years from the effective date of the contract and the exploration and production of gas for a period of 40 years. Royalties under the contract vary from 5% to 20% based on production volumes. Royalties start at 5% if and when production is less than 5,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day (boepd) and are capped at 20% if and when production surpasses 100,000 boepd.
The seven year exploration phase is divided into five periods of 18 months, 24 months, 15 months, 15 months and 12 months, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, we had a $585,000 bond posted for $292,500 in cash collateral. We are currently in the third exploration period, which was scheduled to end in May of 2009. However, in accordance with the terms of the license contract, we intend to postpone the third exploration period of Block XIX to 2010. During the third exploration period, we will be required to drill and test one well. In connection with the third exploration period, which began in February 2008, the performance bond associated with the second exploration period was released. Once we complete the third exploration period we will reestablish timelines for the fourth and fifth exploration periods. Both the fourth and fifth exploration periods will require a performance bond of $585,000 for each respective period. The performance bond amounts are not cumulative, and will be released at the end of each exploration period if the work commitment for that period has been satisfied. In addition, we are required to make technology transfer payments related to training costs of Perupetro professional staff during the exploration phase in the amount of $5,000 per year. The exploitation, or development, period of the contract will commence as soon as the Company declares a commercial discovery and receives approval for a field development plan. We must declare a commercial discovery no later than the end of the last exploration period, including any extensions or deferments.
Description of Block XXII and License Contract
On November 21, 2007, we signed a license contract whereby we acquired a 100% interest in Block XXII. Block XXII is located onshore in northwest Peru within the Lancones Basin of Cretaceous-Upper Eocene Age and covers an area of approximately 948,000 acres. The Lancones Basin is primarily an exploratory area and has had limited drilling and seismic activity. The southern sector of this block also covers the productive Talara basin of northwest Peru, near the Talara Refinery. The exploration period of the license contract extends over a seven year period divided into five periods or four periods of 18 months and a final period of 12 months. Under certain circumstances, the exploration periods may be extended for an additional period of up to three years. We are in the first exploration period which requires that we acquire, process and interpret 200 kms of 2-D seismic data and prepare a comprehensive geological and engineering study for the area. In each subsequent period after the first 18 month period we are required to drill an exploratory well. If a commercial discovery is made during the exploration period, the contract will allow for the exploration and production of oil for a period of 30 years from the effective date of the contract and the exploration and production of gas for a period of 40 years. Royalties under the contract vary from 15% to 30% based on production volumes. Royalties start at 15% if and when production is less than 5,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day (boepd) and are capped at 30% if and when production surpasses 100,000 boepd.
In connection with the first exploration period, we were required to obtain a cash collateralized $600,000 bond for cash collateral in the amount of $300,000. The performance bond amounts are not cumulative, and will be released at the end of each exploration period if the work commitment for that period has been satisfied.
Description of Block XXIII and License Contract
On November 21, 2007, we signed a license contract whereby we acquired a 100% interest in Block XXIII, which consists of approximately 248,000 acres and is located onshore in northwest Peru between Blocks Z-1 and XIX. This block is located in the Tumbes basin, although in its southern section Talara Basin sediments may be found deeper. The sections of the Tumbes and Talara Basins in Block XXIII are primarily exploratory areas and have had limited drilling and seismic activity. The exploration period of the license contract extends over a seven year period divided in to two periods of 18 months and two periods of 24 months. In addition, it commits the Company to drill a certain number of wells, acquire certain amount of either 2-D or 3-D seismic data and prepare an integrated geological, geochemical and reservoir engineering evaluation of the hydrocarbon prospects in the block. In connection with this block we posted a performance bond to guarantee our various obligations and commitments. If a commercial discovery is made during the exploration period, the contract will allow for the exploration and production of oil for a period of 30 years from the effective date of the contract and the exploration and production of gas for a period of 40 years. Royalties under the contract vary from 15% to 30% based on production volumes. Royalties start at 15% if and when production is less than 5,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day (“boepd”) and are capped at 30% if and when production surpasses 100,000 boepd.
In connection with the first exploration period, we were required to obtain a cash collateralized $3,075,000 bond in the amount of $1,537,500. The performance bond amounts are not cumulative, and will be released at the end of each exploration period if the work commitment for that period has been satisfied.
Proved Reserves
Our estimated proved oil reserve quantities were prepared by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), independent petroleum engineers. NSAI was chosen based on their knowledge and experience of the region in which we operate. Numerous uncertainties arise in estimating quantities of proved reserves and projecting future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. These uncertainties are greater for properties which are undeveloped or have a limited production history, such as in Northern Peru. Our actual reserves, future rates of production and timing of development expenditures may vary substantially from these estimates. All of our proved reserves are in the Corvina Field. Our net quantities of proved developed and undeveloped reserves of crude oil and standardized measure of future net cash flows are reflected in the table below. See further information about the basis of presentation of theses amount in “Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures (Unaudited)” to our consolidated financial statements provided herein.
As of December 31, 2008, we owned a 100% working interest in the Corvina Field, subject to Peruvian government royalties of 5% to 20% net revenue interest depending on the level of production. The effect of these royalty interest deductions is reflected in the calculation of our net proved reserves. Our estimate of proved reserves have been prepared under the assumption that our license contract will allow production for the expected 30-year term for oil and 40-year term for gas, as more fully discussed under “Description of Block Z-1” above.
Net Proved Crude Oil Reserves and Future Net Cash Flows
As of December 31,
(Reserves Quantities in barrels)
Acreage
The following table shows the number of developed and undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2008:
Drilling Activity
The following lists our successful exploratory and development wells that were drilled during the year ended December 31, 2008:
Drilling activity refers to the number of wells completed at any time during the fiscal year, regardless of when drilling was initiated. For the purpose of this table, the term “completed” refers to the installation of permanent equipment for the production of oil or natural gas.
Present Activities
In November 2008, we commenced drilling on the CX11-15D well and reached total drilling depth in January 2009. The CX11-15D targeted the known oil and gas sands higher in the geological formation with the main objective of proving up a portion of the probable oil and gas reserves and giving us another oil producing well. During the testing it was confirmed that the deeper prospective sands were found lower than expected and were located below the estimated oil-water contact, thus testing formation water. The tests in the upper oil zones resulted in no flow due to the quality of the sands in this location. However, the gas sands in the gas zone were encountered higher than expected, which should allow us to prove up some of the probable gas reserves. Operations have commenced to sidetrack the CX11-15D well, targeting a location higher in the geological formation. Once the sidetrack is complete, which we estimate to be by the end of the first quarter, we will test the prospective oil sands which, in this location, should be above the oil-water contact and of better quality. As part of the extended well testing program, the well will then be placed on production if commercial amounts of oil are tested. We anticipate production increases in the field based on the CX11-15D well being completed in late March. Management does not expect the results of this well to have a material impact on oil-in-place in Corvina.
Following the completion of the CX11-15D well in Corvina, we intend to work over the CX11-20XD well to maximize oil production from the oil producing zone in the reservoir. The work over should be completed in approximately one month or less.
We are producing oil under a long-term testing program, at the CX-11 platform in Corvina. Production for November and December 2008 was approximately 140,000 and 148,000 barrels of oil, respectively, or approximately 4,600 and 4,800 bopd, respectively. We were drilling the CX11-15D well in November and December 2008, which caused us to limit production during certain periods for safety reasons. In January 2009 production has averaged approximately 4,600 bopd. We expect to continue increase production when the CX11-15D well and future wells come online.
Property in Ecuador
Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, SMC Ecuador Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its registered branch in Ecuador, we also own a 10% non-operated working interest in an oil and gas producing property, Block 2, located in the southwest region of Ecuador (the “Santa Elena Property”). The Santa Elena Property is located west of the city of Guayaquil along the coast of Ecuador. The license contract provides for royalty payments equal to 23% of production. There have been almost 3,000 wells drilled in the field since production began in the 1920s. Currently, there are approximately 1,250 active wells which produce approximately 1,600 barrels of oil per day. The majority of the wells produce intermittently by gas lift, mechanical pump or swabbing techniques. Crude oil is gathered in holding tanks and pumped via pipeline to an oil refinery in the city of Libertad, Ecuador. The license agreement covering the property extends through May 2016.
ITEM 3.