ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Offices
Our corporate headquarters office is in Houston, Texas, where we lease approximately 20,400 square feet of office space under a lease agreement which expires in February 2016. We sublease approximately 4,400 square feet of our office space to a tenant under a sublease agreement which expires in December 2012. We also currently lease four administrative offices and a warehouse in Peru of approximately 12,100 square feet and 68,000 square feet, respectively. The current administrative offices in Lima, Peru and a warehouse in Piura, Peru are under month-to-month leasing arrangements until we are ready to move into our new consolidated administrative offices in Lima, Peru and new warehouse located in Caleta Cruz which is near our operations in Tumbes, Peru. The new administrative office and warehouse leased areas are approximately 22,500 square feet and 101,300 square feet, respectively, and both leases expire in December 2013. Additionally, we lease an administrative office in Quito, Ecuador of 829 square feet under a month-to-month lease.
Properties in Peru
We currently have exclusive rights to four properties in northwest Peru. We have a 100% working interest in license contracts for Block Z-1, Block XIX, Block XXII and Block XXIII. The license contracts afford an initial exploration phase of seven years. As described below, each license contract provides for additional exploration periods which can extend the exploration phase of the license contract. If exploration efforts are successful, the license contracts term can extend up to 30 years for oil exploration and production and up to 40 years for gas exploration and production. In the event a block contains
both oil and gas, as is the case in the Block Z-1 contract, the 40 year term may apply to oil exploration and production as well. These four blocks cover a combined area of approximately 2.2 million acres.
The following table is a summary of our properties in northwest Peru. As of December 31, 2009 only acreage in Block Z-1 has been partially developed.
(1) Does not include the CX11-16X well which tested quantities of gas which we believe to be of commercial amounts and is currently shut-in. Until such time as sufficient funding has been secured and the necessary infrastructure is in place for our gas-to power project, we cannot include any of these reserves as part of our SEC reserves nor include the well(s) as productive.
Description of Block Z-1 and License Contract
Block Z-1, a coastal offshore area encompassing approximately 555,000 acres, is situated at the southern end of the Gulf of Guayaquil in northwest Peru. Geologically, the block lies within the Tumbes Basin. From the coastline, water depths increase gradually. The average water depth of the area is approximately 200 feet and approximately 10% of the area has depths ranging from 500 feet up to 1,000 feet. Located within Block Z-1 are five structures which were drilled in the 1970s and 1980s by previous operators, including Tenneco, Inc. and Belco Oil and Gas Corporation (“Belco”). These structures are known as the Albacora, Barracuda, Corvina, Delfin and Piedra Redonda fields. Wells drilled in each of these structures tested positive for oil or gas in what we believe to be economic quantities while drilling at depths ranging from 6,000 to 12,000 feet. However, at the time the wells were drilled, it was not considered economic to produce and sell natural gas from the fields. Consequently, the wells were either suspended or abandoned.
In the Corvina field, five wells were drilled, including two wells drilled by Tenneco in the mid-1970s and three wells drilled by Belco in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Two drilling and production platforms were set up by Belco during this period and are still in place in the Corvina field. The first platform is located in the East Corvina prospect field and we need to conduct an engineering study to determine the viability of repairing and refurbishing the platform or building a new platform prior to initiating any drilling activities in this section of the Corvina field. The second platform, CX-11, is located in the West Corvina development field and, after repairs and refurbishment, is currently being used in our West Corvina drilling and production activities. All five of the previously drilled wells in the Corvina field encountered indications of natural gas and apparent reservoir-quality formations, although only one of the wells, the CX11-16X, was completed and tested. At the time these wells were drilled, there was no commercial market for natural gas in the region. The CX11-16X ,when tested by Belco, produced natural gas at rates as high as 16.6 million cubic feet of gas per day during two separate tests over a period of approximately 20 days each. Following these tests, the well was shut-in. In June 2007, we successfully recompleted the CX11-16X well as a natural gas producing well and completed a total of four drill stem tests on various zones in the well including one in a formation previously untested in the entire basin. The tests produced quantities of gas we believe to be in commercial amounts. The CX11-16X well remains shut-in pending development of our planned gas-to-power project.
In the Albacora field, three wells were drilled and produced oil for a very limited time. The original drilling and production platform set up by Belco during this period is still in place in the Albacora field and has been repaired and refurbished by us. The Albacora field is located in the northern part of our offshore Block Z-1. It consists of approximately 7,500 acres and is located in water depths of less than 200 feet.
In the Piedra Redonda field, two wells were drilled by Belco in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Indications of natural gas were present in both wells. One well was completed, while the other well encountered abnormally high pressures and was abandoned for mechanical reasons prior to reaching its intended total depth. The completed well in the Piedra Redonda field, the C18X, when tested by Belco, produced natural gas at rates as high as 8.3 MMcfe per day over a period of approximately 20 days during an extended test in 1979 and was also shut-in.
We originally acquired our initial interest in Block Z-1 in a joint venture with Syntroleum Peru Holdings Limited, sucursal del Peru, under an exploration and production license contract dated November 30, 2001, with an effective date of January 29, 2002. Under the original contract, BPZ owned a 5% non-operating working interest, along with the right of first refusal, in the block. Syntroleum later transferred its interest to Nuevo Peru ltd., sucursal del Peru. Subsequent to the merger of Nuevo Energy, Inc. and Plains Exploration and Production Company, Nuevo Energy, Inc. transferred its interest in Block Z-1 to BPZ which then assumed a 100% working interest, as well as the remaining obligations under the contract. Perupetro approved the assumption of Nuevo’s interest by BPZ and the designation of BPZ as a qualified operator under the contract in November 2004. This action was subject to official ratification and issuance of a Supreme Decree by the government of Peru, which was issued in February 2005. Accordingly, an amended contract was signed with Perupetro, naming BPZ as the owner of 100% of the participation under the license contract.
The license contract provides for an initial exploration phase of seven years, and can be extended under certain circumstances an additional six years up to thirteen years. Each period has a commitment for exploration activities and requires a financial guarantee to secure the performance of the work commitment during such period. Block Z-1 is currently in the fourth exploration period. This period was initially scheduled to expire in November 2010. However, due to receiving a statement from the Ministry of Energy and Mines to suspend our seismic data survey, the fourth period is currently under suspension until our revised Environmental Impact Study is approved by the DGAAE (“Dirección General de Asuntos Ambientales y Energéticos”), a division of the Ministry of Energy and Mines, who is responsible for environmental protection matters in Peru. The fourth and final exploration period requires the drilling of an additional exploratory well or other equivalent work commitments, such as conducting a seismic data survey. A performance bond of $1.0 million was posted for cash collateral of $1.0 million related to the fourth exploration period. The performance bond will be released at the end of the exploration period if the work commitment for that period has been satisfied. In addition, we are required to make technology transfer payments related to training costs of Perupetro professional staff during the exploration phase of $50,000 per year.
Under the terms of the Block Z-1 license contract, we are permitted to retain a portion of the license contract area that we would otherwise have to return to Perupetro as long as we carry out additional exploration activities after the end of the exploration period, in accordance with the requirements under the license contract. Our current plans are to carry out these additional exploration commitments and retain this area.
On November 21, 2007, we submitted a letter to Perupetro declaring a commercial discovery in the Block Z-1 field. On May 19, 2008 we filed the field development plan with Perupetro. The commercial development period of the Corvina field will commence on May 31, 2010. In December 2009 Perupetro approved our proposed FDCP as set forth in the current FDP for our Corvina field. The FDP sets May 31, 2010 as the date to transition from exploration to commercial production in the Corvina field. Accordingly, on or before the FDCP we will be required to have installed and commissioned any equipment needed to process and transport all produced fluids, including reinjection facilities for any formation water and unused associated gas produced with the crude oil, unless an extension is obtained. Under the contract, oil exploration, development and production can continue for a total of up to 30 years from the effective date of the contract, and gas exploration, development and production can continue for up to 40 years. In the event a block contains both oil and gas, as is the case in the Block Z-1 contract, the 40 year term may apply to oil exploration and production as well. Royalties under the contract vary from 5% to 20% based on production volumes. Royalties start at 5% if and when production is less than 5,000 boepd and are capped at 20% if and when production surpasses 100,000 boepd.
After the third exploration period, we relinquished 25% of the least prospective acreage as stipulated under the terms of the Block Z-1 License Contract as we transitioned into the fourth exploration phase under the license contract. None of the mapped prospects identified by us were included within the acreage relinquished. At the end of the fourth exploration phase, we may keep the remaining contract area, provided we commit to certain exploration commitments every two years, for a maximum additional period of up to six years. If we decide not to continue this minimum work program, we will only be allowed to keep the fields discovered and the surrounding five kilometer areas for the remainder of the contract life.
Description of Block XIX and License Contract
Block XIX covers approximately 473,000 acres, lying entirely onshore and adjacent to Block Z-1 in northwest Peru. Geologically, the block lies primarily within the Tumbes Basin of Oligocene-Neogene age, but also covers part of the Talara Basin to the south. Several older wells showed evidence of gas potential in the Mancora formation as well as oil shows from the Heath Formation. The sections of the Tumbes and Talara Basins in Block XIX are primarily exploratory areas and have had limited drilling and seismic activity. However, the Mancora formation is expected to continue from offshore in Block Z-1 in Piedra Redonda through Block XXIII, also under license to us, and into Block XIX, an area which spans approximately fifty miles.
In February 2003, we entered into a Technical Evaluation Agreement with Perupetro for Block XIX. In December 2003, we signed a license contract whereby we acquired a 100% interest in Block XIX. The term for the exploration period is seven years and can be extended under certain circumstances for an additional period of up to four years. If a commercial discovery is made during the exploration period, the contract will allow for the exploration and production of oil for a period of 30 years from the effective date of the contract and the exploration and production of gas for a period of 40 years. In the event a block contains both oil and gas, the 40 year term may apply to oil exploration and production as well. Royalties under the contract vary from 5% to 20% based on production volumes. Royalties start at 5% if and when production is less than 5,000 boepd and are capped at 20% if and when production surpasses 100,000 boepd.
The seven year exploration phase is divided into five periods of 18 months, 24 months, 15 months, 15 months and 12 months, respectively. We are currently in the third exploration period, which was scheduled to end in September of 2010. However, due to the fact the authorization for access is still in process by DGH, last February we asked Perupetro to declare force majeure. Once approved by Perupetro, the third exploration period requires us to drill and test one well or perform other equivalent work commitments. Once we complete the third exploration period we will reestablish timelines for the remaining exploration periods. In connection with the third exploration period, we posted a $585,000 performance bond for $292,500 in cash collateral. The fourth exploration period will require a performance bond of $585,000. The fifth and final exploration period is scheduled to begin in December 2011 and will require a performance bond of $585,000. The performance bond amounts are not cumulative, and will be released at the end of each exploration period if the work commitment for that period has been satisfied. In addition, we are required to make technology transfer payments related to training costs of Perupetro professional staff during the exploration phase in the amount of $5,000 per year. We must declare a commercial discovery no later than the end of the last exploration period, including any extensions or deferments.
Under the terms of the Block XIX License Contract, we are required to relinquish 20% of the least prospective licensed acreage by the end of the fourth exploration period. Accordingly, we intend to retain the most prospective acreage identified. At the end of the exploration phase, we may keep the remainder of the contract area, provided we commit to purse and implement an additional work program every two years, up to a maximum of four years. If we decide not to continue this minimum work program, we will only be allowed to keep the area over the fields discovered, plus a technical security zone around such discoveries.
Description of Block XXII and License Contract
On November 21, 2007, we signed a license contract whereby we acquired a 100% interest in Block XXII. Block XXII is located onshore in northwest Peru within the Lancones Basin of Cretaceous-Upper Eocene Age and covers an area of approximately 912,000 acres. The Lancones Basin is primarily an exploratory area and has had limited drilling and seismic activity. The southern sector of this block also covers the productive Talara basin of northwest Peru, near the Talara Refinery. The exploration period of the license contract extends over a seven year period divided into five periods or four periods of 18 months and a final period of 12 months. Under certain circumstances, the exploration periods may be extended for an additional period of up to three years. We are in the first exploration period which was originally scheduled to expire in July 2009. However, since our Environmental Impact Study took several months to be approved, the first exploration period time limit was on suspension until such approval was obtained from the DGAAE. We obtained the approval in March 2011 which extended the first exploration period up to September 2010. The first exploration period requires that we acquire, process and interpret 260 kms of two dimensional (“2-D”) seismic data and prepare a comprehensive geological and engineering study for the area. In each subsequent period after the first 18 month period we are required to drill an exploratory well or perform other equivalent work commitments. If a commercial discovery is made during the exploration period, the contract will allow for the exploration and production of oil for a period of 30 years from the effective date of the contract and the exploration and production of gas for a period of 40 years. In the event a block contains both oil and gas, the 40 year term may apply to oil exploration and production as well. Royalties under the contract vary from 15% to 30% based on production volumes. Royalties start at 15% if and when production is less than 5,000 boepd and are capped at 30% if and when production surpasses 100,000 boepd.
In connection with the first exploration period, we were required to obtain a cash collateralized $600,000 bond for cash collateral in the amount of $300,000. The performance bond amounts are not cumulative, and will be released at the end of each exploration period if the work commitment for that period has been satisfied.
Under the Blocks XXII License Contract, we are required to relinquish at least 20% of the least prospective original agreement area at the end of the third period and at least another 30% of the original agreement area at the end of the fourth period such that at the end of the fourth period, we will have released 50% of the original agreement area. Accordingly, we
intend to retain the most prospective acreage identified. The contract does not call for any additional relinquishment of acreage within the contract area and we may retain the remaining un-relinquished area for the remainder of the contract life provided we continue executing a minimum work program as defined under the license contract. If we decide not to continue this minimum work program, we will only be allowed to keep the fields discovered and the surrounding five kilometer areas for the remainder of the contract life.
Description of Block XXIII and License Contract
On November 21, 2007, we signed a license contract whereby we acquired a 100% interest in Block XXIII, which consists of approximately 230,000 acres and is located onshore in northwest Peru between Blocks Z-1 and XIX. This block is located in the Tumbes basin, although in its southern section Talara Basin sediments may be found deeper. The sections of the Tumbes and Talara Basins in Block XXIII are primarily exploratory areas and have had limited drilling and seismic activity. The exploration period of the license contract extends over a seven year period divided in to two periods of 18 months and two periods of 24 months. We are in the first exploration period which was originally scheduled to expire in July 2009. However, since our Environmental Impact Study is still pending approval from DGAAE, the first exploration period time limit is on suspension until such approval is obtained. Once we complete the first exploration period we will reestablish timelines for the remaining exploration periods. The first exploration period requires that we acquire, process and interpret 360 kms of three dimensional (“3-D”) seismic data and 290 kms of 2-D seismic data and prepare an integrated geological, geochemical and reservoir engineering evaluation of the hydrocarbon prospects in the block. In each subsequent period after the first exploration period, we will be required to drill a certain number of wells and/or acquire certain amount of either 2-D or 3-D seismic data. If a commercial discovery is made during the exploration period, the contract will allow for the exploration and production of oil for a period of 30 years from the effective date of the contract and the exploration and production of gas for a period of 40 years. In the event a block contains both oil and gas, the 40 year term may apply to oil exploration and production as well. Royalties under the contract vary from 15% to 30% based on production volumes. Royalties start at 15% if and when production is less than 5,000 boepd and are capped at 30% if and when production surpasses 100,000 boepd.
In connection with the first exploration period, we were required to obtain performance bond of $3,075,000 bond for $1,537,500 in cash collateral. The performance bond amounts are not cumulative, and will be released at the end of each exploration period if the work commitment for that period has been satisfied.
Under the Blocks XXIII License Contract, we are required to relinquish 20% of the least prospective original agreement area at the end of the third period and at least another 30% of the original agreement area at the end of the fourth period such that at the end of the fourth period, we will have released 50% of the original agreement area. Accordingly, we intend to retain the most prospective acreage identified. The contract does not call for any additional relinquishment of acreage within the contract area and we may retain the remaining un-relinquished area for the remainder of the contract life provided we continue executing an exploration work program as defined under the license contract. If we decide not to continue this exploration work program, we will only be allowed to keep the fields discovered and the surrounding five kilometer areas for the remainder of the contract life.
Proved Reserves
Our estimated proved oil reserve quantities were prepared by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), independent petroleum engineers. NSAI was chosen based on their knowledge and experience of the region in which we operate. Numerous uncertainties arise in estimating quantities of proved reserves and projecting future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. These uncertainties are greater for properties which are undeveloped or have a limited production history, such as our properties in Northern Peru. Our actual reserves, future rates of production and timing of development expenditures may vary substantially from these estimates. See Item 1A “Risk Factors, “ Our reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate” and , “We have received comments from the SEC to our most recent annual report, quarterly report and proxy statement that are still pending and that may not be resolved in our favor” for further information. All of our proved reserves are in the Corvina and Albacora fields. Our net quantities of proved developed and undeveloped reserves of crude oil and standardized measure of future net cash flows are reflected in the table below. See further information about the basis of presentation of these amounts in “Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures (Unaudited)” to our consolidated financial statements provided herein.
As of December 31, 2009, we owned a 100% working interest in the Corvina and Albacora fields, subject to Peruvian government royalties of 5% to 20% net revenue interest depending on the level of production. The effect of these royalty interest payments is reflected in the calculation of our net proved reserves. Our estimate of proved reserves have been prepared under the assumption that our license contract will allow production for the possible 40-year term for both oil and gas, as more fully discussed under “Description of Block Z-1” above.
Net Proved Crude Oil Reserves and Future Net Cash Flows
As of December 31, 2009
Based on Average Fiscal-Year Prices
These estimates are based upon a reserve report prepared by NSAI, independent petroleum engineers. NSAI used internally developed reserve estimates and criteria in compliance with the SEC guidelines based on data provided by us. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and “Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures.” NSAI’s report is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 10-K.
The reserve volumes and values were determined under the method prescribed by the SEC, which for 2009 requires the use of an average price, calculated as the twelve-month first day of the month historical average price for the twelve-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions. For years prior to 2009, the SEC rules required the use of year-end prices.
All of our proved undeveloped reserves are scheduled for development within five years and at December 31, 2009, we did not have any proved undeveloped reserves greater than five years.
In accordance with SEC guidelines, the reserve engineers’ estimates of future net revenues from our properties, and the present value of the properties, are made using the twelve-month first day of the month historical average oil prices for the December 31, 2009 reserves and oil sales prices in effect as of the end of the period of such estimates for prior periods, and are held constant throughout the life of the properties, except where the guidelines permit alternate treatment, including the use of fixed and determinable contractual price escalations. Historically, the prices for oil have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future.
Qualifications of Technical Persons and Internal Controls Over Reserves Estimation Process
Our policies regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves estimates requires reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance and prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering principles.
Our Chief Operating Officer is responsible for compliance in reserves bookings and utilizes the reserves estimates made by our third party reserve consultant, NSAI for the preparation of our reserve report. Our Chief Operating Officer is a petroleum engineer with over 20 years operating experience in international oil and gas projects. He holds an Advanced Degree in Mathematics from Ecole Centrale de Paris, France, a Master’s Degree and Ph.D. in Petroleum Engineering from Texas A&M University, as well as an MBA from the University of Colorado.
The technical personnel responsible for preparing the reserves estimates at NSAI meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity, and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. NSAI is an independent firm of petroleum engineers, geologists, geophysicists, and petrophysicists; it does not own an interest in our properties and is
not employed on a contingent fee basis. NSAI’s President and Chief Operating Officer is a licensed professional engineer with more than 30 years of experience and the geoscientist charged with the audit is a licensed professional with 25 years of experience.
Reserve Technologies
The SEC’s new rules expanded the technologies that a company can use to establish reserves. The SEC now allows use of techniques that have been proved effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that has been field tested and has been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. We used a combination of production and pressure performance, wireline wellbore measurements, analytical and simulation studies, offset analogies, seismic data and interpretation, geological data, interpretation, and modeling, wireline formation tests, geophysical logs and core data, and laboratory fluid studies to calculate our reserves estimates, including the material additions to the 2009 reserves estimates.
Development of Proved Reserves
As of December 31, 2009, we had proved reserves of 37.5 MMBbls, an increase of 20.3 MMBbls relative to December 31, 2008 of proved reserves of 17.2 MMBbls. Additions to proved developed non-producing reserves were 5.6 MMBbls at December 31, 2009. There were no proved developed non-producing wells at December 31, 2008. Additions to proved undeveloped reserves of 14.6 MMBbls resulted primarily from additional proved undeveloped locations in our Corvina field of 10.3 MMBbls, or 23.2 MMBbls total, and to a lesser extent to our Albacora field of approximately 4.3 MMBbls.
Production, Average Sales Price and Production Costs.
The following table presents our production, average realized sales prices and average production costs for the indicated periods.
(1) We inventory our oil that has not been sold. Therefore, per unit costs, after allocating operating costs to inventory, are based on sales volume.
(2) Production costs includes the oil operating, workover and repair costs.
Acreage
The following table shows approximately the number of developed and undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2009:
Drilling Activity
The number of productive development wells at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were 7.0, 4.0 and 2.0, respectively. The following table lists our successful exploratory and development wells that were drilled during the year ended December 31, 2009:
Drilling activity refers to the number of wells completed at any time during the fiscal year, regardless of when drilling was initiated. For the purpose of this table, the term “completed” refers to the installation of equipment for the production of oil or natural gas.
In the first quarter of 2010, we drilled and tested the CX11-17D well in the Corvina field. The development well was drilled to a total depth 9,830 feet.
Present Activities
Corvina Field
We are producing oil under a long-term testing program, at the CX-11 platform in Corvina and are in the process of satisfying the conditions to transition to commercial production in Corvina. Production for the three months ended December 31, 2009 was approximately 205,121 barrels of oil, or approximately 2,300 bopd.
In December 2009, the CX11-19D well was successfully completed into a proved undeveloped area of the Corvina field, targeting not only sands currently produced in other wells, but also lower untested oil sands that were found to be productive. During the drilling of this well, the Zorritos formation was encountered higher than previously mapped. The well has continued to produce consistently with its initial production rate (“IPR”), with an increase in its gas-oil-ratio as expected, indicative of the production mechanism predominant in the early life of the well. There has been no formation water reported to date.
Additionally, in February of 2010, the CX11-17D well, our seventh oil well in the Corvina field, was successfully completed and placed into production with normal gas-oil-ratio and no formation water. We first tested a set of lower sands that had not been tested before in prior wells before adding the second set of sands, thus allowing us to gather data to continue updating the Corvina geologic and reservoir models. While all wells decline over time, it is too early to model the decline rate in the Corvina field as we are still collecting data to determine the field’s drive mechanism.
We are currently drilling the CX11-22D in Corvina. This well will be drilled to approximately 10,000 feet measured depth. We expect this well to be online in the second quarter of 2010.
Albacora Field
In December 2009, we produced approximately 7,400 barrels of oil from the A-14XD well at the A platform in the Albacora field under a under a production testing program pursuant to the new regulations.
In January 2010, we commenced drilling the A-15D, the second Albacora well, which was to be drilled to approximately 13,000 feet vertical depth and aims to test prospective sands below the lowest known oil sands tested or produced to date in the field. In mid January 2010, the Company stopped oil production and drilling activities in order to install the permanent production equipment on the A platform. In February 2010, we resumed drilling of the A-15D well as
well as resumed testing the A-14XD. The Company is in the process of negotiating an initial short-term oil sales contract with the Talara refinery or another third party, which is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter.
In March 2010, while drilling the A-15D and preparing to run our 9 5/8” casing to the top of the Zorritos formation, we found that the 13 3/8” casing of the previous section had been damaged. After several unsuccessful attempts to recover that section of the well, we decided to abandon that wellbore and proceed to skid the rig and start the drilling of the A-16D well which, similar to the A-15D, will be drilled to approximately 13,000 feet vertical depth and will aim to test prospective sands below the lowest known oil sands tested or produced to date in the field. We are evaluating the possible courses of action to recover the slot that was used by the A-15D well. Our methodology for appraising and developing the Albacora field remains consistent with the methodology used to appraise and develop the Corvina field; we plan to take a step-by-step approach to find and delineate the generalized oil-water contact in the field based on prospective sands identified by the A-14XD well and the wells previously drilled in the field.
Additionally, while preparing to drill the A-16D well, we learned that one of the main beams of the upper platform deck was bent. It appears that the damage occurred during the drilling of the A-15D well. We are investigating this incident to confirm our initial assessment of the cause and structural integrity of the platform. At present, structural engineers are evaluating the overall condition of the platform to insure its structural integrity. Initial estimates to complete repairs are two weeks. On completion of all repairs we will begin drilling the A-16D well.
Marine Operations
Subsequent to December 31, 2009, we have upgraded our oil transportation capabilities by time chartering a double-hull tanker with a capacity of approximately 65,000 barrels. This vessel should allow us to optimize delivery of our oil to the Talara refinery. We have also leased a storage vessel with capacity of approximately 160,000 barrels and plan to place it near the Albacora platform. The additional transportation and storage capacity should provide needed operational flexibility to minimize future oil production restrictions due to possible delays at the Talara refinery’s terminal caused by high tanker traffic or adverse sea conditions.
Property in Ecuador
Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, SMC Ecuador Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its registered branch in Ecuador, we also own a 10% non-operated working interest in an oil and gas producing property, Block 2, located in the southwest region of Ecuador (the “Santa Elena Property”). The Santa Elena Property is located west of the city of Guayaquil along the coast of Ecuador. The license contract provides for royalty payments equal to 23% of production. There have been almost 3,000 wells drilled in the field since production began in the 1920s. There are approximately 1,450 active wells which produce approximately 1,400 barrels of oil per day. The majority of the wells produce intermittently by gas lift, mechanical pump or swabbing techniques. Crude oil is gathered in holding tanks and pumped via pipeline to an oil refinery in the city of Libertad, Ecuador. The license agreement covering the property extends through May 2016.
ITEM 3.