ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The golf courses remaining in our portfolio include the nationally recognized golf courses named below:
•Westin Innisbrook Resort, Copperhead Course: "Top 100 You Can Play," Golf Magazine, 2000; "Top 100 U.S. Resort Courses," Golf Digest, 1999; Island Course, "Top 75 Resort Courses," Golf Digest, 1992.
•Eagle Ridge Inn and Resort, The General Course: "100 Best Modern Courses," Golf Magazine, 2000; "Top 10 Best New Upscale Public Courses," Golf Digest, 1997; South Course: "Top 100 U.S. Resort Course," Golf Digest, 1999.
•Sandpiper Golf Course: "Top 25 Public Courses in the Nation," Golf Digest, 1992.
•Country Club at Woodcreek Farms, "Best Course By State" 19th In South Carolina, Golf Digest, 2000.
As of March 22, 2002, our golf courses include 9.0 upscale daily fee courses, 8.5 resort courses and 3.5 private country club courses. Daily fee courses are open to the public and generate revenues principally through green fees, golf cart rentals, food and beverage operations, merchandise sales and driving range charges. Resort courses are daily fee golf courses that attract a significant percentage of players from outside the immediate area in which the golf course is located and generate a significant amount of revenue from golf vacation packages. We consider our daily fee and resort courses to be high-end golf courses because of the general condition of each golf course. Private country clubs are generally closed to the public and derive revenues principally from membership dues, initiation fees, transfer fees, golf cart rentals, guest fees, food and beverage operations and merchandise sales.
Five of our golf courses are located near Tampa, Florida. Of these five, four are located at the Westin Innisbrook Resort, a destination golf resort that includes one of the largest hotel and conference facilities in the state. The fifth course, Lost Oaks of Innisbrook, is located near the Westin Innisbrook Resort. All five courses are near the Gulf of Mexico.
We own a fee simple interest in each of the golf courses with the exception of Mystic Creek, at which we are the ground lessee under a long-term ground lease, and the four golf courses at the Westin Innisbrook Resort, where we are the first lender under a participating mortgage secured by the golf courses and all of the related facilities (other than the separately-owned condominium units comprising the hotel). Pursuant to the participating mortgage, we also hold an option, as the optionee, to purchase the Westin Innisbrook Resort and the related facilities at the maturity of the participating mortgage for the lesser of its fair market value or a pre-determined number of shares of our common stock.
Information regarding each of the golf courses owned by us or in which we have an interest as of March 22, 2002 is set forth on the following pages. In connection with our ongoing plan of liquidation, we are actively seeking buyers for all of our remaining golf courses.
Resort Courses
Resort courses are daily fee golf courses that draw a high percentage of players from outside the immediate area in which the course is located and generate a significant amount of revenue from golf vacation packages. Some resort courses are semi-private, that is, they offer membership packages that allow members special privileges at the golf course, but also allow public play. As of March 22, 2002, we own interests in the resort courses listed below:
High-End Daily Fee Courses
We consider our daily fee courses to be high-end courses, generally based upon the quality and maintenance standards of the golf courses and the green fees, which are generally higher than other golf courses in their respective markets. Some high-end daily fee courses are semi-private because they offer membership packages but also allow public play. As of March 22, 2002, we own interests in the high-end daily fee courses listed below:
Private Club Courses
Private clubs are generally closed to the public and generate revenue principally through initiation fees and membership dues, golf cart rentals and guest green fees. Initiation fees and membership dues are determined according to the particular market segment in which the club operates. Revenue and cash flows of private country clubs generally are more stable and predictable than those of public
courses, because the receipt of membership dues generally is independent of the level of course utilization. As of March 22, 2002, we own interests in the private club courses listed below:
The Participating Leases
The following summary of the participating leases is qualified in its entirety by reference to the participating leases, the form of which is incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this annual report. The following description of the participating leases does not purport to be complete but contains a summary of their material provisions. Our participating leases were individually negotiated and consequently vary from one another, at times in material ways. We do not intend to acquire any new golf courses. Accordingly, we do not intend to enter into any new participating leases on any newly acquired golf courses.
All of our leases are participating leases. Currently, we have four participating leases, of which two are in default and are the subject of pending litigation. The participating leases generally contain the same basic provisions described below.
Lease Term
Each participating lease was entered into at the time the underlying golf course was conveyed to us. Generally, our interest in each leased golf course includes the land, buildings and improvements, maintenance equipment, related easements and rights, and fixtures. Each leased golf course is leased to the respective lessee under a participating lease which, generally, has a primary fixed term of ten years. In addition, each lessee generally has an option to extend the term of its participating lease for up to six terms of five years each, subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain contingencies described in the participating lease.
In addition, at the expiration of the fixed term and the extended terms, the lessee generally has a right of first offer to continue to lease the golf course on the terms and conditions pursuant to which we intend to lease the golf course to a third party.
Lessee's Right of First Offer
We may sell a golf course, however, absent a lessee default, we must first offer the lessee of the course the right to purchase it. We must give the relevant lessee written notice of our intent to sell, which notice must indicate the terms and conditions upon which we intend to sell the course. The lessee generally has a period of 60 days to elect to purchase the golf course on the terms and conditions upon which we propose to sell the golf course. If the lessee elects not to purchase, then we are free to sell the golf course to a third party. However, if the price at which we intend to sell the golf course is reduced by 5% or more from the price offered to the lessee, then we generally must offer the lessee the right to acquire the golf course at the reduced price provided that the lessee has only 15 days to accept our offer.
Use of the Golf Courses
Each participating lease permits the lessee to operate the leased property as a golf course, along with a clubhouse and other activities customarily associated with or incidental to the operation of a golf course and other facilities located at the golf course, including, where applicable, swim and tennis
operations. Operations may include sale or rental of golf-related merchandise, sale of memberships, furnishing of lessons, operation of practice facilities and sales of food and beverages.
Base Rent; Participating Rent
The participating leases provide that we receive, with respect to each golf course, the greater of base rent or an amount equal to participating rent, plus the initial base rent payable under each participating lease. We did not receive any participating rent from lessees in 2001. Participating rent is generally calculated as equal to 331/3% of any increase in gross golf revenue over gross golf revenue for the base year, as adjusted in determining the initial base rent, which base year will be reset to the year immediately preceding the date on which the prior owner exercises the lessee performance option, if applicable. Base rent will generally be increased annually by the base rent escalator (generally, the lesser of (i) 3% or (ii) a multiple of the change in CPI for the prior year) during the first five years of each participating lease term and, if the lessee performance option is exercised, an additional five years thereafter from the date of exercise. Annual increases in lease payments are generally limited to between 5% and 7% during the first five years of the initial lease terms. Gross golf revenue is generally defined as all revenues from a golf course, including green fees, golf cart rentals, range fees, membership dues, membership initiation fees and transfer fees, excluding, however, food and beverage and merchandise revenue. In certain circumstances, we participate in food and beverage and merchandise revenue. Base rent is required to be paid in twelve equal monthly installments in arrears on the first day of each calendar month. Participating rent is payable quarterly in arrears.
Triple Net Leases
The participating leases are structured as triple net leases under which each lessee is required to pay all real estate and personal property taxes, insurance, utilities and services, golf course maintenance and other operating expenses.
Security Deposit
As security for its affiliated lessee's obligations under its participating leases, each prior owner of each golf course generally is obligated to pledge OP units (or cash or other collateral acceptable to us) with a varying value generally bearing some relation to the purchase price for the applicable golf course. The value of OP unit collateral held is not fixed since it fluctuates with the common stock price. The security deposit generally will not be released for two years from inception. Beginning in the third year and any time thereafter, one-third of pledged collateral will be released if the net operating income to lease payment coverage ratio of the lessee for the two prior fiscal years equals or exceeds 120%, 130% and 140%, respectively. If the coverage ratio falls below 120% at any time following the release of pledged collateral, then the lessee shall be required to retain and not distribute profits until such time as the lessee has retained cash equal to at least six-months of then-current base rent.
The security deposit will be increased following the exercise of any lessee performance option to equal approximately 15% of the sum of the initial purchase price of the golf course and the value of any additional OP units issued in connection with the exercise of the lessee performance option.
Maintenance and Modifications
Each lessee, at its sole cost and expense, is required to maintain and operate its respective leased golf course in good order, repair and appearance and to make those repairs, interior and exterior, structural and non-structural, foreseen and unforeseen, and ordinary and extraordinary, as are necessary and appropriate to keep the leased golf course in good order, repair and appearance. Each lessee must also maintain each golf course it leases in substantially the same condition it was in at the commencement of the participating lease and otherwise in a condition comparable to other comparable
golf courses in its vicinity. If we determine that a lessee has failed to comply with its maintenance and operation obligations, then we may provide a written list to the lessee of remedial work and/or steps to be performed. If the lessee disputes our assertions, then the matter must be handled by a committee composed of other lessees and representatives of our company.
We have generally established and will maintain, through the payment of additional rent, with respect to each golf course, a capital replacement reserve or fund, in an amount equal to between 2% and 5% of gross golf revenue at the golf course, depending on certain factors, including the condition of the structures and the age and condition of the golf course. We, along with each lessee, must agree on the use of funds in these reserves and we have the right to approve each lessee's annual and long-term capital expenditure budgets. Funds in the capital replacement fund must be paid to a lessee to reimburse the lessee for expenditures made in connection with approved capital replacements. The lessees are generally obligated to increase their lease payment each year in an amount equal to the increase in the capital replacement fund from the prior year. Amounts in the capital replacement fund will be deemed to accrue interest at a money market rate. Generally, we will retain any amounts in the capital replacement fund at the expiration of the applicable participating lease, with limited exceptions.
Except for our obligation to fund the capital replacement fund and except for certain improvements, we are not required to build or rebuild any improvements on any leased golf course, or to make any repairs, replacements, alterations, restorations or renewals of any nature or description to any leased golf course, whether ordinary or extraordinary, structural or non-structural, foreseen or unforeseen. Additionally, we are not required to make any expenditure whatsoever in connection with any participating lease, or to maintain any leased golf course in any way.
During the fixed term and each extended term, each lessee, at its sole cost and expense, may make lessee improvements, including alterations, additions, changes and/or improvements to its leased golf course, without our prior written consent, provided the alterations do not diminish the value or appearance of the golf course. All lessee improvements are subject to all the terms and provisions of each applicable participating lease and will become our property upon termination of the participating lease.
At the end of the participating lease, all remaining personal property at each leased golf course becomes our property.
Insurance
Each lessee is required to maintain insurance on its leased golf course under insurance policies providing for all-risk, liability, flood (if carried by comparable golf course facilities in the area and otherwise available at commercially reasonable rates) and worker's compensation coverage, which at the time is usual and commonly obtained in connection with properties similar in type and use to the leased golf course located in the geographic area where the leased course is located. Each insurance policy names us as additional insured or loss payee, as applicable.
Assignment and Subletting
A lessee, without our prior written consent (which we may generally withhold in our sole discretion, except in limited instances), may not assign, mortgage, pledge, hypothecate, encumber or otherwise transfer any participating lease or any interest in the lease, all or any part of the leased golf course or suffer or permit any lease or the leasehold estate or any other rights arising under any participating lease to be assigned, transferred, mortgaged, pledged, hypothecated or encumbered, in whole or in part, whether voluntarily, involuntarily or by operation of law. An assignment of a participating lease will be deemed to include any change of control of the lessee, as if the change of control were an assignment of the participating lease. However, each lessee has the right to assign its participating lease to its affiliates.
Each lessee, with our prior approval, which we may withhold in our discretion, may be permitted to sublease portions of its leased golf course to sublessees to operate portions, but not the entirety of the operations customarily associated with or incidental to the operation of a golf course (e.g., driving range, restaurant, etc.).
Company's Right of First Offer
In the event a lessee desires to sell its interest in its participating lease to an unaffiliated third party, it must first offer us, or our designee, the right to purchase its interest. The lessee must give us written notice of its intent to sell, which notice must indicate the terms and conditions upon which the lessee intends to sell its interest in the participating lease. We, or our designee, generally have a period of 60 days to elect to purchase the leasehold interest on the terms and conditions upon which the lessee proposes to sell its interest. If we, or our designee, elect not to purchase the lessee's interest, then the lessee is free to sell its interest to a third party, subject to our approval as described above (see "-Assignment and Subletting"). However, if the terms upon which the lessee intends to sell its interest are reduced by 5% or more, then the lessee generally must again offer us the right to acquire its interest, provided that we have only 15 days to accept the offer.
Damage to or Condemnation of a Leased Property
In the event of damage to or destruction of any leased golf course caused by an insured risk, the lessee will be obligated to diligently restore the leased golf course to substantially the same condition as existed immediately prior to the damage or destruction and, to the extent the insurance proceeds and the capital replacement fund are insufficient to do so, the lessee will be obligated to contribute the excess funds needed to restore the leased golf course. Any excess insurance proceeds will be paid to us. However, in the event the damage or destruction of the leased golf course renders it unsuitable for use as a golf course for a period of 12 months or more, the lessee may terminate the participating lease.
Indemnification Generally
Under each participating lease, the lessee has agreed to indemnify us from and against all liabilities, obligations, claims, actual or consequential damages, penalties, causes of action, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) imposed upon or asserted against us as owner of the applicable leased golf course on account of, among other things: (i) any accident, injury to or death of a person or loss of or damage to property on or about the leased course, (ii) any use, non-use or misuse by the lessee of the leased course, (iii) any impositions (which are the obligations of the lessee to pay pursuant to the applicable provisions of the participating lease) or the operations thereon, (iv) any failure on the part of the lessee to perform or comply with any of the terms of the participating lease or any sublease, (v) any taxes levied against the leased golf course and (vi) any liability we may incur or suffer as a result of any permitted contest by the lessee under any participating lease.
Governing Law
The participating leases are governed by the law of the state where the golf course is located. Because the golf courses are located in various states, the participating leases may be subject to restrictions imposed by applicable local law.
Events of Default
Events of default are defined in each participating lease generally to include, among others, the following:
•if a lessee fails to make a rent payment when the payment becomes due and payable and the lessee does not cure the failure within a period of ten days after receipt of written notice from us of the failure;
•if a lessee fails to observe or perform any material term, covenant or condition of a participating lease and the failure is not cured within a period of 30 days after receipt by the lessee of written notice from us, unless the failure cannot be cured with due diligence within a period of 30 days, in which case the failure will not constitute an event of default if the lessee proceeds promptly and with due diligence to cure the failure and diligently completes the cure within 120 days;
•if a lessee: (a) admits in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, (b) files a petition in bankruptcy or a petition to take advantage of any insolvency act, (c) makes an assignment for the benefit of its creditors, (d) is unable to pay its debts as they mature, (e) consents to the appointment of a receiver for itself or of the whole or any substantial part of its property or (f) files a petition or answer seeking reorganization or arrangement under the federal bankruptcy laws or any other applicable law or statute of the United States of America or any state thereof;
•if the lessee is liquidated or dissolved;
•if the lessee voluntarily ceases operations on the leased golf course, except as a result of damage, destruction or a partial or complete condemnation or other unavoidable delays; or
•if the lessee or its affiliate is in default under any other participating lease.
If an event of default occurs and is continuing under a participating lease then upon not less than ten days notice (only if required by the participating lease) of the termination and upon the expiration of such time, the fixed or extended term, as the case may be, will terminate and all rights of the lessee under the participating lease will cease.
ITEM 3.