ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Company believes its investments are consistent with its goal of becoming a leading owner of, and participating in increased revenue from, nationally or regionally recognized upscale golf courses. The Golf Courses include a number of nationally recognized golf courses.
The Golf Courses include 23 upscale Daily Fee courses, 13.5 Resort Courses and 8.5 Private Country Clubs. "Daily Fee" courses are open to the public and generate revenues principally through green fees, golf cart rentals, food and beverage operations, merchandise sales and driving range charges. "Resort Courses" are Daily Fee golf courses that attract a significant percentage of players from outside the immediate area in which the golf course is located and generate a significant amount of revenue from golf vacation packages. The Company considers its Daily Fee and Resort Courses to be high-end golf courses because of the quality and maintenance of each golf course. Private country clubs are generally closed to the public and derive revenues principally from membership dues, initiation fees, transfer fees, golf cart rentals, guest fees, food and beverage operations and merchandise sales.
The Company believes that the overall quality of the Golf Courses is reflected in the green fees charged at each Golf Course, which significantly exceed national averages. The Company believes its focus on upscale Daily Fee golf courses and private country clubs, which attract golfers with attractive demographic and economic profiles, will result in stronger and less cyclical revenue growth in comparison to golf courses with lower green fees.
Five of the Golf Courses are located in the Myrtle Beach, South Carolina vicinity, a popular year-round golf destination area. Myrtle Beach is considered one of the nation's premier golf resort locations with nearly 100 golf courses and approximately 3.9 million rounds played in 1996, according to the MYRTLE BEACH GOLF HOLIDAY-TM-. In addition to golf courses, Myrtle Beach offers a mix of entertainment, shopping and dining, as well as proximity to beaches. All of the Golf Courses located in the Myrtle Beach vicinity were developed and contributed to the Company by Legends Golf, a leading golf course owner, developer and operator in the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States.
Five of the Golf Courses are located near Tampa, Florida. Of these, four are located at the Westin Innisbrook Resort, a destination golf resort that includes one of the largest hotel and conference facilities in the state. The fifth course, Lost Oaks of Innisbrook, is located near the Westin Innisbrook Resort, and all five courses are near the Gulf of Mexico. Additionally, the courses benefit from the millions of tourists annually that visit Disney World-TM-, Busch Gardens-TM- and other regional recreational attractions.
The Company owns a fee simple interest in each of the Golf Courses with the exception of Oyster Bay and Mystic Creek, which are subject to long-term ground leases, and the four Golf Courses at the Westin Innisbrook Resort, where the Company holds a first lien on the Golf Courses and all of the related facilities (other than the separately-owned condominium units comprising the hotel). The Company additionally holds an option to purchase the Westin
Innisbrook Resort and such facilities at the expiration of the Participating Mortgage for the lesser of its fair market value or a pre-determined number of shares of Common Stock.
Certain information regarding each of the Golf Courses owned by or in which the Company has an interest as of December 31, 1998, is set forth on the following pages:
RESORT COURSES
Resort Courses are Daily Fee golf courses that draw a high percentage of players from outside the immediate area in which the course is located and generate a significant amount of revenue from golf vacation packages. Some Resort Courses are semi-private, in that they offer membership packages that allow members special privileges at the golf course, but also allow public play.
HIGH-END DAILY FEE COURSES
The Company considers its Daily Fee courses to be high-end courses, reflected in the quality and maintenance standards of the golf courses, and the green fees, which are generally higher than other golf courses in their respective markets. Some high-end daily fee courses are semi-private, in that they offer membership packages but also allow public play.
PRIVATE CLUB COURSES
Private clubs are generally closed to the public and generate revenue principally through initiation fees and membership dues, golf cart rentals and guest green fees. Initiation fees and membership dues are determined according to the particular market segment in which the club operates.
Revenue and cash flows of private country clubs generally are more stable and predictable than those of public courses, because the receipt of membership dues generally is independent of the level of course utilization.
(1) The Company recently acquired an additional nine holes at this facility which were recently constructed and just opened by the original developer.
THE PARTICIPATING LEASES
THE FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF THE PARTICIPATING LEASES IS QUALIFIED IN ITS ENTIRETY BY REFERENCE TO THE PARTICIPATING LEASES, A FORM OF WHICH WAS PREVIOUSLY FILED. THE FOLLOWING DESCRIPTION OF THE PARTICIPATING LEASES DOES NOT PURPORT TO BE COMPLETE BUT CONTAINS A SUMMARY OF THE MATERIAL PROVISIONS THEREOF. PURSUANT TO THE COMPANY'S MULTIPLE INDEPENDENT LESSEE STRUCTURE, LEASES ARE INDIVIDUALLY NEGOTIATED AND CONSEQUENTLY VARY FROM ONE ANOTHER, AT TIMES IN MATERIAL WAYS.
All of the Participating Leases contain the same basic provisions described below. The leases for any golf course properties acquired by the Company in the future will contain such terms and conditions as are agreed upon between the Lessee and the Company at the time of such acquisitions, and such terms and conditions may vary from the terms and conditions described below with respect to the Participating Leases. The Company anticipates that each new lease will be with an existing Lessee, with an affiliate of the seller or with an unaffiliated third party experienced in the operation of similar courses.
LEASE TERM
Each Participating Lease was entered into upon the conveyance to the Company of the underlying Golf Course. Generally, the Company's interest in each leased Golf Course includes the land, buildings and improvements, maintenance equipment, related easements and rights, and fixtures (collectively, the "Leased Property"). Each Leased Property is leased to the respective Lessee under a Participating Lease which, generally, has a primary term of 10 years (the "Fixed Term"). In addition, each Lessee generally has an option to extend the term of its Participating Lease for up to six terms of five years each (the "Extended Terms") subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain contingencies described in the Participating Lease.
In addition, at the expiration of the Fixed Term and the Extended Terms, the Lessee will generally have a right of first offer to continue to lease the Golf Course on the terms and conditions pursuant to which the Company intends to lease the Golf Course to a third party.
USE OF THE GOLF COURSES
Each Participating Lease permits the Lessee to operate the Leased Property as a golf course, along with a clubhouse and other activities customarily associated with or incidental to the operation of a golf course and other facilities located at the golf course, including, where applicable, swim and tennis operations. Operations may include sale or rental of golf-related merchandise, sale of memberships, furnishing of lessons, operation of practice facilities and sales of food and beverages.
BASE RENT; PARTICIPATING RENT
The Participating Leases provide for the Company to receive, with respect to each Golf Course, the greater of Base Rent or an amount equal to Participating Rent plus the initial Base Rent payable under each Participating Lease. Participating Rent is generally equal to 33 1/3% of any increase in Gross Golf Revenue over Gross Golf Revenue for the base year, as adjusted in determining the initial Base Rent, which base year will be reset to the year immediately preceding the date on which the Prior Owner exercises the Lessee Performance Option, if applicable. Base Rent will generally be increased annually by the Base Rent Escalator (generally, the lesser of (i) 3% or (ii) a multiple of the change in CPI for the prior year) during the first five years of each Participating Lease term and, if the Lessee Performance Option is exercised, an additional five years thereafter from the date of exercise. Annual increases in Lease Payments are generally limited to 5% - 7% during the first five years of the initial lease terms. "Gross Golf Revenue" generally is defined as all revenues from a Golf Course including green fees, golf cart rentals, range fees, membership dues, membership initiation fees and transfer fees, excluding, however, food and beverage and merchandise revenue. In certain circumstances, the Company participates in food and beverage and merchandise revenue. Base Rent is required to be paid in twelve equal monthly installments in arrears on the first day of each calendar month. Participating Rent is payable quarterly in arrears.
TRIPLE NET LEASES
The Participating Leases are structured as triple net leases under which each Lessee is required to pay all real estate and personal property taxes, insurance, utilities and services, golf course maintenance and other operating expenses.
SECURITY DEPOSIT
As security for its affiliated Lessee's obligations under its Participating Leases, each prior owner of each Golf Course generally is obligated to pledge OP Units (or cash or other collateral acceptable to the Company) with a value initially up to 15% of the purchase price for the applicable Golf Course. The security deposit generally will not be released for two years. Beginning in the third year and any time thereafter, one-third of pledged collateral will be released if the net operating income to lease payment coverage ratio (the "Coverage Ratio") of the Lessee for the two prior fiscal years equals or exceeds 120%, 130% and 140%, respectively. If the Coverage Ratio falls below 120% at any time following the release of pledged collateral, then the Lessee shall be required to retain and not distribute profits until such time as the Lessee has retained cash equal to at least six-months of then-current Base Rent. In addition, the Participating Leases with the Legends Lessees are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
The security deposit will be increased following the exercise of any Lessee Performance Option to equal approximately 15% of the sum of the initial purchase price of such Golf Course and the value of any additional OP Units issued in connection with the exercise of the Lessee Performance Option. If the Company acquires any Expansion Facility, the security deposit also will be increased by an amount equal to approximately 15% of the purchase price of the Expansion Facility.
In instances where the Golf Course is not leased to a prior owner, the security deposit provided to the Company varies, and is generally less than where a Golf Course is leased back to its Prior Owner and the Company seeks to cross-collateralize any security deposits otherwise provided by such Lessee or its affiliates to the Company.
ADVISORY ASSOCIATION
Each Lessee is a member of the Advisory Association, which participates in cross-marketing of the Golf Courses and identified each Golf Course as owned by the Company, thereby increasing the golfing consumer's brand name awareness of the Company. Membership in the Advisory Association is designed to provide the Lessees, collectively, greater purchasing power with vendors than each would have individually. The Advisory Association attempts to ensure a consistent, high-quality product at each member Golf Course. In conjunction with management of the Company, the Advisory Association will review and analyze any disputes between the Company and a Lessee concerning annual capital and operating budgets and in conjunction with the Company also will confirm each Lessee's compliance with its repair and maintenance obligations under each Participating Lease.
MAINTENANCE AND MODIFICATIONS
Each Lessee, at its sole cost and expense, is required, to maintain and operate its respective Leased Property in good order, repair and appearance and to make such interior and exterior, structural and non-structural, foreseen and unforeseen, and ordinary and extraordinary repairs as are necessary and appropriate to keep such Leased Property in good order, repair and appearance. Each Lessee also must maintain each Golf Course it leases in substantially the same condition it was in at the commencement of the Participating Lease and otherwise in a condition comparable to other comparable golf courses in its vicinity. If the Company, in consultation with the Advisory Association, determines that a Lessee has failed to comply with its maintenance and operation obligations, then the Company shall provide a written list to the Lessee of remedial work and/or steps to be performed. If the Lessee disputes the Company's assertions, then the matter shall be handled by a committee composed of members of the Advisory Association and representatives of the Company.
The Company has generally established and will maintain, through the payment of additional rent, with respect to each Golf Course, a capital replacement reserve (a "Capital Replacement Fund") in an amount equal to between 2% and 5% of Gross Golf Revenue at such Golf Course, depending on certain factors, including the condition of the structures and the age and condition of the Golf Course. The Company and each Lessee will agree on the use of funds in these reserves and the Company has the right to approve each Lessee's annual and long-term
capital expenditure budgets. Funds in the Capital Replacement Fund shall be paid to a Lessee to reimburse such Lessee for expenditures made in connection with approved capital replacements. The Lessees generally are obligated to increase their lease payment each year in an amount equal to the increase in the Capital Replacement Fund from the prior year. Amounts in the Capital Replacement Fund will be deemed to accrue interest at a money market rate. Generally, any amounts in the Capital Replacement Fund at the expiration of the applicable Participating Lease will be retained by the Company, with limited exceptions.
Except for its obligation to fund the Capital Replacement Fund and except for certain improvements, the Company is not required to build or rebuild any improvements on any Leased Property, or to make any repairs, replacements, alterations, restorations or renewals of any nature or description to any Leased Property, whether ordinary or extraordinary, structural or non-structural, foreseen or unforeseen, or to make any expenditure whatsoever with respect thereto, in connection with any Participating Lease, or to maintain any Leased Property in any way. In the event that the Company elects to fund additional capital improvements on a Golf Course, the Company generally will condition such election on an increase in minimum rent under the Participating Lease with respect to such Golf Course to reflect such expenditures.
During the Fixed Term and each Extended Term, each Lessee, at its sole cost and expense, may make alterations, additions, changes and/or improvements ("Lessee Improvements") to each Leased Property, without the Company's prior written consent, provided such alterations do not diminish the value or appearance of the Golf Course. All such Lessee Improvements will be subject to all the terms and provisions of each applicable Participating Lease and will become the property of the Company upon termination of such Participating Lease.
At the end of the Participating Lease, all remaining personal property at each Leased Property will become the property of the Company.
INSURANCE
Each Lessee is required to maintain insurance on its Leased Property under insurance policies providing for all-risk, liability, flood (if carried by comparable golf course facilities in the area and otherwise available at commercially reasonable rates) and worker's compensation coverage, which at the time is usual and commonly obtained in connection with properties similar in type of building size and use to the Leased Property located in the geographic area where the Leased Property is located. Each insurance policy names the Company as additional insured or loss payee, as applicable.
ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING
A Lessee, without the prior written consent of the Company (which consent may generally be withheld by the Company in its sole discretion, except in limited instances), may not assign, mortgage, pledge, hypothecate, encumber or otherwise transfer any Participating Lease or any interest therein, all or any part of the Leased Property or suffer or permit any lease or the leasehold estate created thereby or any other rights arising under any Participating Lease to be assigned, transferred, mortgaged, pledged, hypothecated or encumbered, in whole or in part, whether voluntarily, involuntarily or by operation of law. An assignment of a Participating Lease will be deemed to include any change of control of such Lessee, as if such change of control were an assignment of the Participating Lease. However, each Lessee has the right to assign its Participating Lease to its affiliates.
Each Lessee, with the Company's prior approval, which approval the Company may withhold in its discretion, may be permitted to sublease portions of any Leased Property to sublessees to operate portions (but not the entirety of the operations customarily associated with or incidental to the operation of a golf course (e.g., driving range, restaurant, etc.).
COMPANY'S RIGHT OF FIRST OFFER
In the event a Lessee desires to sell its interest in its Participating Lease to an unaffiliated third party, it must first offer the Company or its designee the right to purchase such interest. The Lessee must give the Company written notice of its intent to sell, which shall indicate the terms and conditions upon which such Lessee intends to sell its interest in the Participating Lease. The Company or its designee shall thereafter generally have a period of 60 days to elect to purchase the leasehold interest on the terms and conditions at which such Lessee proposes to sell its interest. If the Company or its designee elects not to purchase the interest of the Lessee, then such Lessee shall be free to sell its interest to a third party, subject to the Company's approval as described above (see "-- Assignment and Subletting"). However, if the terms on which the Lessee intends to sell its interest are reduced by 5% or more, then such Lessee generally shall again offer the Company the right to acquire its interest, provided the Company shall have only 15 days to accept such offer.
LESSEE'S RIGHT OF FIRST OFFER
The Company may sell a Golf Course, but must first offer the Lessee of such course the right to purchase the Golf Course. The Company must give the relevant Lessee written notice of its intent to sell, which shall indicate the terms and conditions upon which the Company intends to sell such Golf Course. Such Lessee shall thereafter generally have a period of 60 days to elect to purchase the Golf Course on the terms and conditions at which the Company proposes to sell the Golf Course. If such Lessee elects not to purchase the Golf Course, then the Company shall be free to sell the Golf Course to a third party. However, if the price at which the Company intends to sell the Golf Course is reduced by 5% or more from the price offered to the Lessee, then generally the Company again shall offer such Lessee the right to acquire the Golf Course at the reduced price provided that such Lessee shall have only 15 days to accept such offer.
DAMAGE TO, OR CONDEMNATION OF, A LEASED PROPERTY
In the event of damage to or destruction of any Leased Property caused by an insured risk, the Lessee will be obligated to diligently restore the Leased Property to substantially the same condition as existed immediately prior to such damage or destruction and, to the extent the insurance proceeds and the Capital Replacement Fund are insufficient to do so, such Lessee will be obligated to contribute the excess funds needed to restore the Leased Property. Any excess insurance proceeds will be paid to the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the damage or destruction of the Leased Property renders the Leased Property unsuitable for use as a golf course for a period of 12 months or more, the Lessee may terminate the Participating Lease.
INDEMNIFICATION GENERALLY
Under each Participating Lease, the Lessee has agreed to indemnify, and hold harmless, the Company from and against all liabilities, obligations, claims, actual or consequential damages, penalties, causes of action, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) imposed upon or asserted against the Company as owner of the applicable Leased Property on account of, among other things, (i) any accident, injury to or death of a person or loss of or damage to property on or about the Leased Property, (ii) any use, non-use or misuse by such Lessee of the Leased Property, (iii) any impositions (which are the obligations of the relevant Lessee to pay pursuant to the applicable provisions of such Participating Lease) or the operations thereon, (iv) any failure on the part of the Lessee to perform or comply with any of the terms of the Participating Lease or any sublease, (v) any taxes levied against the Leased Property and (vi) any liability the Company may incur or suffer as a result of any permitted contest by the Lessee under any Participating Lease.
EVENTS OF DEFAULT
Events of Default are defined in each Participating Lease generally to include, among others, the following:
(i) if a Lessee fails to make a rent payment when such payment becomes due and payable and such failure is not cured by such Lessee within a period of 10 days after receipt of written notice thereof from the Company;
(ii) if a Lessee fails to observe or perform any material term, covenant or condition of a Participating Lease and such failure is not cured by such Lessee within a period of 30 days after receipt by such Lessee of written notice thereof from the Company, unless such failure cannot be cured with due diligence within a period of 30 days, in which case such failure will not constitute an Event of Default if such Lessee proceeds promptly and with due diligence to cure the failure and diligently completes the curing thereof within 120 days;
(iii) if a Lessee: (a) admits in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, (b) files a petition in bankruptcy or a petition to take advantage of any insolvency act, (c) makes an assignment for the benefit of its creditors, (d) is unable to pay its debts as they mature, (e) consents to the appointment of a receiver for itself or of the whole or any substantial part of its property or (f) files a petition or answer seeking reorganization or arrangement under the federal bankruptcy laws or any other applicable law or statute of the United States of America or any state thereof;
(iv) if the Lessee is liquidated or dissolved;
(v) if the Lessee voluntarily ceases operations on the Leased Property, except as a result of damage, destruction or a partial or complete condemnation or other unavoidable delays; or
(vi) if the Lessee or an affiliate thereof is in default under any other Participating Lease with the Company.
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing under a Participating Lessee then upon not less than 10 days notice (only if required by the Participating Lease) of such termination and upon the expiration of such time, the Fixed or Extended Term, as the case may be, will terminate and all rights of the Lessee under the Participating Lease shall cease.
GOVERNING LAW
The Participating Leases will be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the state where the Golf Course is located. Because the Golf Courses are located in various states, the Participating Leases may be subject to restrictions imposed by applicable local law.
ITEM 3.