ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Initial Courses consist of 10 nationally or regionally recognized high quality courses located in the mid-Atlantic, southeastern and southwestern United States. Four of the Initial Courses were ranked among the Top Ten New Courses by either GOLF DIGEST or GOLF MAGAZINE in each course's opening year, including the recently opened Stonehouse Golf Club, which in November 1996 was named the Best New Upscale Course by GOLF DIGEST for 1996. Two of the established courses (Oyster Bay and Heritage Club) have been ranked in the Top 50 Public Initial Courses by GOLF DIGEST.
The Initial Courses include nine high quality Daily Fee courses (including six Resort Courses) and one private country club. "Daily Fee" courses are open to the public and generate revenues principally through green fees, golf cart rentals, food and beverage operations, merchandise sales and driving range charges. "Resort Courses" are Daily Fee golf courses that attract a significant percentage of players from outside the immediate area in which the golf course is located and generate a significant amount of revenue through golf vacation packages. The Company considers the Daily Fee and Resort Courses to be high-end golf courses because of the quality and maintenance of each golf course and the average green fees, which are significantly above the averages for golf courses in their
respective geographic markets. Private country clubs are generally closed to the public and derive revenues principally from membership dues, initiation fees, transfer fees, golf cart rentals, guest fees, food and beverage operations and merchandise sales.
The Company believes that the overall quality of the Initial Courses is reflected in the average green fees charged at each Initial Course, which significantly exceed national averages. The Company believes its focus on high quality Daily Fee golf courses and private country clubs, which attract golfers with attractive demographic and economic profiles, will result in stronger and less cyclical revenue growth in comparison to lower-end golf courses.
Five of the Initial Courses are located in the Myrtle Beach, South Carolina vicinity, a popular year-round golf destination area. Myrtle Beach is considered one of the nation's premier golf resort locations with nearly 100 golf courses and more than 3.9 million rounds played in 1995, according to the MYRTLE BEACH GOLF HOLIDAY TM. In addition to golf courses, Myrtle Beach offers a mix of entertainment, shopping and dining, as well as proximity to beaches. All of the Initial Courses located in the Myrtle Beach vicinity were developed by The Legends Group.
Two of the Initial Courses are located in the Williamsburg, Virginia area and were opened in June and August, 1996. Williamsburg is a leading tourist destination and an emerging golf destination area, with a population of approximately 2.6 million people within a 60 mile radius, providing the area with an opportunity to attract both resort and local golfers. Since 1995 five new courses have been opened in the Williamsburg vicinity, including two of the Initial Courses. In addition to golf course opportunities, Williamsburg and the surrounding area offer shopping, dining, entertainment and historical sites. Both of the Initial Courses located in Williamsburg were developed and are currently owned and operated by The Legends Group.
One of the Initial Courses is located in Gulf Shores, Alabama, a popular golf and vacation destination located near the Florida panhandle. In addition to golf, Gulf Shores offers 32 miles of sandy beaches. The other Initial Courses are located in Houston, Texas and Atlanta, Georgia, two major metropolitan areas.
The Company acquired a 100% interest in each of the Initial Courses in February, 1997. Certain information respecting each of the Initial Courses is set forth below:
- --------------
(1) Yardage is calculated from the championship tees. (2) "Revenue Per Player" is calculated by dividing Gross Golf Revenue at the applicable Initial Course by the number of rounds played at the applicable Initial Course. For Heathland, Moorland and Parkland, which share common facilities and have the same green fees, Revenue Per Player is equally allocated. (3) Gross Golf Revenue is defined as all revenues from a golf course, including green fees, golf cart rentals, range fees, membership dues, member initiation fees and transfer fees, but excluding food and beverage and merchandise revenue. (4) Amounts for Northgate Country Club are for its fiscal year ended December 20, 1996. (5) Participating Rent is calculated based on increases in the Gross Golf Revenue from a base year of 1996, as adjusted. Consequently, no Participating Rent is payable on a pro forma basis for 1996. (6) The Heathland, Moorland and Parkland Initial Courses are subject to a single Participating Lease and the Base Rent is equally allocated among these Initial Courses. (7) The Company acquired the fee simple interest in each of the Golf Courses except Oyster Bay, which is subject to a long-term ground lease with a lessor not affiliated with the Prior Owner thereof. (8) Opened in August 1994. (9) Opened in August of 1996. (10) Opened in June of 1996. (11) The Company expects to acquire, upon completion, an additional nine holes at this Golf Course.
DESCRIPTIONS OF THE INITIAL COURSES
Set forth below are brief descriptions of each of the Initial Courses. Unless otherwise noted, the Company owns fee title to the Initial Courses, free and clear of any material liens.
RESORT COURSES
Resort Courses are Daily Fee golf courses that draw a high percentage of players from outside the immediate area in which the course is located and generate a significant amount of revenue through golf vacation packages. Some Resort Courses are semi-private, meaning they offer membership packages that allow members special privileges at the golf course, but also allow public play.
HEATHLAND -- MYRTLE BEACH, SOUTH CAROLINA. Heathland, a Resort Course developed by The Legends Group, opened in 1990 and was named by GOLF MAGAZINE as one of the United States' Top 10 New Courses in 1990. The Heathland course has been molded in the image of the British Isles links courses and most of its holes are without trees or vegetation, providing a spectacular visual presentation. Along with the Moorland and Parkland courses described below, Heathland is part of the Legends Resort that consists of a 42,000 square foot clubhouse on a 1,300 acre development. This Scottish style resort includes various amenities such as a pub adorned with Scottish memorabilia and the sounds of Scottish bagpipes at sunset.
MOORLAND -- MYRTLE BEACH, SOUTH CAROLINA. Moorland, a Resort Course developed by The Legends Group, opened in 1990 and was named by GOLF DIGEST as one of the United States' Top 5 New Courses in 1990. Moorland is part of the Legends Resort and was designed by P.B. Dye. Moorland consists of large expanses of natural growth, sand and water that combine with undulations and bulkheaded areas to present a challenging "target style" course.
PARKLAND -- MYRTLE BEACH, SOUTH CAROLINA. Parkland, a Resort Course developed by The Legends Group, opened in 1992 and is the last golf course that was opened at the Legends Resort. Parkland demonstrates the diversity and beauty of the local natural terrain by its combination of tree-lined fairways, vast natural areas, deep-faced bunkers and massive multi-level greens.
HERITAGE CLUB -- PAWLEYS ISLAND, SOUTH CAROLINA. Heritage Club was developed by The Legends Group and opened in 1986. Heritage Club was named to GOLF DIGEST'S Top 50 Public Courses in the United States in 1992. Heritage Club is a semi-private resort consisting of over 600 acres of giant magnolias and oaks, fresh water lakes and marshes. Heritage Club is built on the site of two plantations and retains an historic atmosphere with facilities designed in a traditional plantation architectural style, including the southern style Colonial Clubhouse.
OYSTER BAY -- SUNSET BEACH, NORTH CAROLINA. Oyster Bay, developed by The Legends Group, opened in 1983 and was named by GOLF DIGEST as its Best New Resort Course in the United States in 1983 and was named to GOLF DIGEST'S Top 50 Public Courses in the United States in 1992. Oyster Bay is operated pursuant to a ground lease with a remaining term of 35 years. The ground lessor is not affiliated with either the Company or the course's Initial Lessee. Oyster Bay consists of several marsh-oriented holes, two island greens and strategic fresh water lakes. Over half of the holes are situated so that water hazards add an additional challenge.
THE WOODLANDS -- GULF SHORES, ALABAMA. The Woodlands is a 6,600-yard par 72 course which opened in 1994. The course, featuring lakes, marshes and tree-lined fairways, was designed by Larry Nelson, former United States Open champion and two-time PGA Championship winner. Gulf Shores, Alabama, located near the Florida panhandle, is an emerging golf course destination area that includes 10 golf courses in the immediate area. Gulf Shores includes over 30 miles of white sand beaches and the historical Civil War outposts of Fort Morgan and Fort Gaines.
Subject to certain conditions, the Company has agreed to acquire a clubhouse to be constructed at the course by the Initial Lessee of The Woodlands. The Company believes that the construction of the clubhouse will permit the Initial Lessee to attract more group and tournament play and also permit an increase in green fees.
The Company has agreed to reconvey to the Prior Owner of The Woodlands the land on which a portion of certain of the existing holes are located at such time as the Prior
Owner is prepared to contribute comparable golf holes to the Company. All costs associated with such exchange shall be paid for by the Prior Owner.
HIGH-END DAILY FEE COURSES
The Company considers its Daily Fee courses to be high-end courses, reflected in the quality and maintenance standards of the golf courses, and the green fees, which are generally higher than other golf courses in their market.
STONEHOUSE GOLF CLUB -- WILLIAMSBURG, VIRGINIA. Stonehouse Golf Club, located within a 10,000 acre master planned community, was developed by The Legends Group. Stonehouse Golf Club opened in June 1996 and was named by GOLF DIGEST as the Best New Upscale Course for 1996. Stonehouse Golf Club was designed by Mike Strantz (formerly an understudy of Tom Fazio) and constructed in a densely forested area that includes tall hardwood trees and deep ravines. One of the holes at Stonehouse Golf Club features a spring-fed waterfall behind the green while another requires players to hit over a wide, plunging ravine to a green on a cliff-like setting. Stonehouse Golf Club features large greens and wide fairways despite the nearby trees. The Initial Lessee of this golf course is obligated to complete construction of a clubhouse at the course by December 31, 1997.
ROYAL NEW KENT -- PROVIDENCE FORGE, VIRGINIA. Located within a third-party-owned master-planned community just outside Williamsburg, Virginia, Royal New Kent was developed by The Legends Group. It opened in August, 1996. Royal New Kent is located adjacent to Colonial Downs, which is scheduled to open in 1997 and will be the only pari-mutual horse racing facility in Virginia. Royal New Kent also was designed by Mike Strantz and includes five sets of tees, including the "Invicta" (which is Latin for "unconquerable") to accommodate the nearly 7,300 yards of the course. Royal New Kent was fashioned after traditional links-style Irish courses. The Initial Lessee of this golf course is obligated to complete construction of a clubhouse at the course by December 31, 1997.
OLDE ATLANTA GOLF CLUB -- ATLANTA, GEORGIA. Olde Atlanta Golf Club ("Olde Atlanta") is open for public play as well as for member play. Olde Atlanta was designed by Arthur Hills and is located in Suwanee, Georgia (a northeast Atlanta suburb), in the foothills of north Georgia within a 594 acre master-planned community consisting of 645 homesites. This geographic setting allows for multiple changes in terrain and elevation throughout the course. Olde Atlanta's course layout includes three lakes, clustered mounds, grass and sand bunkers and grassy hollows. Olde Atlanta's facilities include a 6,000 square foot clubhouse, which includes a pro shop and a dining room that can seat up to 100 persons.
PRIVATE COUNTRY CLUB COURSES
Private country clubs are generally closed to the public and generate revenue principally through initiation fees and membership dues, golf cart rentals and guest green fees. Initiation fees and membership dues are determined according to the particular market segment in which the club operates.
Revenue and cash flows of private country clubs are generally more stable and predictable than those of public courses because the receipt of membership dues is independent of the level of course utilization.
NORTHGATE COUNTRY CLUB -- HOUSTON, TEXAS. Northgate Country Club ("Northgate") is a full service upscale country club with a championship golf course designed by Robert von Haggie and Bruce Devlin, which opened in 1984. An additional nine holes are expected to open at the course in 1998. The Company has agreed to acquire such additional holes, subject to certain conditions. This Initial Course is located in a forested area north of Houston within a 440 acre high-end master-planned community.
Northgate recently completed the construction of a tennis center building and a restaurant cafe. These improvements provide Northgate greater utilization of its facilities, which the Company believes has produced a sustainable increase in new membership sales. The adjacent country club community of Northgate Forest presently comprises 177 developed homesites with completed homes situated on 83 of these homesites. It is anticipated that 128 more homesites will be developed with approximately 80% of these new homesites to be situated on the additional nine hole expansion referred to above, which is expected to provide Northgate with a sustainable source of future members.
The following tables set forth certain information regarding the Initial Courses.
THE INITIAL COURSES -- RESORT COURSES
- ----------------------------- (1) The Woodlands has a temporary clubhouse which the Company expects will be replaced with a permanent facility.
THE INITIAL COURSES -- HIGH-END DAILY FEE COURSES
- -----------------------------
(1) These courses each have a temporary clubhouse which the prior owner is obligated to replace with a permanent facility by December, 1997. The construction of the permanent facilities will be at the election of the applicable Initial Lessee, and at the sole cost and expense of the applicable Initial Lessee.
THE INITIAL COURSES -- PRIVATE COUNTRY CLUB COURSE
- --------- (1) Nine additional holes are expected to open in 1998. The Company has agreed to acquire such additional holes subject to certain conditions.
THE PARTICIPATING LEASES
THE FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF THE PARTICIPATING LEASES BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND THE INITIAL LESSEES (THE "PARTICIPATING LEASES") IS QUALIFIED IN ITS ENTIRETY BY REFERENCE TO THE PARTICIPATING LEASES, A FORM OF WHICH HAS BEEN FILED AS AN EXHIBIT. THE FOLLOWING DESCRIPTION OF THE PARTICIPATING LEASES DOES NOT PURPORT TO BE COMPLETE BUT CONTAINS A SUMMARY OF THE MATERIAL PROVISIONS THEREOF.
LEASE TERM. The Participating Leases, all of which contain the same basic provisions described below, were entered into upon the conveyance to the Company of the Initial Courses. The Company's interest in each Initial Course includes the land, buildings and improvements, related easements and rights, and fixtures (collectively, the "Leased Property"). Each Initial Course is leased to the respective Initial Lessee under a Participating Lease which has a primary term of 10 years ending on December 31, 2006 (the "Fixed Term"). In addition, each Initial Lessee has options to extend the term of each Participating Lease (the "Extended Terms") for six terms of five years each, subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain contingencies described in the Participating Lease. (The term of the Participating Lease for Oyster Bay, which is leased pursuant to a ground lease with 35 years remaining, has four extension terms of five years each.) Any additional properties acquired will be leased pursuant to such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon between the lessee and the Company at the time of such acquisitions, and such terms and conditions may vary from the terms and conditions described herein with respect to the Participating Leases. The Company anticipates that any new leases will be with either existing Initial Lessees, affiliates of sellers of courses or unaffiliated third parties experienced in the operation of similar courses.
In addition, at the expiration of the Fixed Term and the Extended Terms, the Initial Lessee will have a right of first offer to continue to lease the Initial Course on the terms and conditions pursuant to which the Company intends to lease the Initial Course to a third party.
USE OF THE INITIAL COURSES. Each Participating Lease permits the Initial Lessee to operate the Leased Property as a golf course, along with a clubhouse and other activities customarily associated with or incidental to the operation of a golf course and other facilities located at the golf course, including, where applicable, swim and tennis operations. Operations may include sale or rental of golf-related merchandise, sale of memberships, furnishing of lessons, operation of a driving range, and sales of food and beverages, including liquor sales.
BASE RENT; PARTICIPATING RENT.
Certain information respecting each of the Initial Courses is set forth below:
INITIAL NAME LOCATION BASE RENT(1) - -------------------------------------- ------------------ ------------- Heritage Club. . . . . . . . . . . . . Pawleys Island, SC $1,824,980 Heathland. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Myrtle Beach, SC $1,556,635(2) Moorland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Myrtle Beach, SC $1,556,635(2) Parkland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Myrtle Beach, SC $1,556,635(2) Oyster Bay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sunset Beach, NC $1,855,974 The Woodlands. . . . . . . . . . . . . Gulf Shores, AL $679,029 Royal New Kent . . . . . . . . . . . . Providence Forge, VA $1,816,501 Stonehouse Golf Club . . . . . . . . . Williamsburg, VA $1,889,835 Olde Atlanta . . . . . . . . . . . . . Atlanta, GA $845,058 Northgate Country Club . . . . . . . . Houston, TX $1,406,843 --------------- Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $14,988,131
- --------- (1) In addition to Base Rent, beginning in 1997 Participating Rent may be payable by the Initial Lessees. Participating Rent is calculated based on increases in the Gross Golf revenue from a base year of 1996 as adjusted. Consequently, no calculation of Participating Rent is included above.
(2) The Heathland, Moorland and Parkland courses are subject to a single Participating Lease providing for gross Base Rent of $4,669,905, and the Base Rent is allocated equally among these three courses.
The Participating Leases provide for the Company to receive, with respect to each Initial Lessee, the greater of Base Rent or an amount equal to Participating Rent plus the Initial Base Rent payable under each Participating Lease. Participating Rent is equal to 33 1/3% of any increase in Gross Golf Revenue over Gross Golf Revenue for the 1996 base year, as adjusted in determining the initial Base Rent, which base year will be reset to the year immediately preceding the date on which the Prior Owner exercises the Lessee performance Option, if applicable. Base Rent will increase annually by the Base Rent Escalator (i.e. the lesser of (i) 3% or (ii) 200% of the change in CPI for the prior year) during the first five years of each Participating Lease term and, if the Lessee Performance Option is exercised, an additional five years thereafter from the date of exercise. Annual increases in Lease Payments are limited to 5% during the first five years of the initial lease terms. "Gross Golf Revenue" is generally defined as all revenues from a Golf Course including green fees, golf cart rentals, range fees, membership dues, membership initiation fees and transfer fees, excluding, however, food and beverage and merchandise revenue.
For the recently opened Golf Courses, the base year Gross Golf Revenue is based on an estimate by the Company and the Initial Lessee of such courses, which estimate was also the basis for the valuation of those Golf Courses. Increases in the Lease Payments under the participating Leases are limited to 5% during the first five years. Base Rent is required to be paid monthly in arrears on the first day of each calendar month and Participating Rent is payable quarterly in arrears. The Company believes that Gross Golf Revenue, and hence the amount of any Participating Rent, will be favorably impacted by any significant capital improvements undertaken by an Initial Lessee, such as the planned clubhouses at The Woodlands, Stonehouse Golf Club and Royal New Kent.
TRIPLE NET LEASES. The Participating Leases are structured as triple net leases under which each Initial Lessee is be required to pay all real estate and personal property taxes, insurance, utilities and services and other operating expenses. Out of the payment of Base Rent, the Company will reserve with respect to each Initial Course a capital replacement reserve (the "Capital Replacement Fund") of between 2% and 3% of the annual Gross Golf Revenue generated by such Initial Course (depending primarily on the condition of the structures and the age and condition of the Initial Course), which the Initial Lessee of such course may use for capital improvements or replacements pursuant to a capital replacement budget approved by the Company. The Company will not be required to make or pay for any capital improvements with respect to any Initial Course, except to the extent of such Capital Replacement Fund.
SECURITY DEPOSIT. As security for an Initial Lessee's obligations under the Participating Leases, the seller of each Initial Course has pledged, on behalf of the affiliated Initial Lessee, OP Units (or cash or other collateral acceptable to the Company) with a value initially equal to 15% of the purchase price for the applicable Initial Course, which approximates 16 months of the initial Base Rent (at the IPO Price). The OP Units will not be released for two years. Beginning in the third year and any time thereafter, one-third of the pledged OP Units will be released when the net operating income to lease payment coverage ratio (the "Coverage Ratio") from the applicable Initial Course for the two prior fiscal years equals or exceeds 120%, 130% and 140%, respectively. If the Coverage Ratio falls below 120% at any time following the release of pledged collateral, then the Initial Lessee shall be required to retain and not distribute profits until such time as six months of Base Rent at current levels has been retained. In addition, the Participating Leases with the Legends Lessees are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
The security deposit will be increased following the exercise of any Lessee Performance Option to equal approximately 15% of the sum of the initial purchase price of such Initial Course and the value of any additional OP Units issued in connection with the exercise of the Lessee Performance Option. If the Company acquires any Expansion Facility, the security deposit also will be increased by an amount equal to approximately 15% of the purchase price of the Expansion Facility.
ADVISORY ASSOCIATION. Each Initial Lessee will be a member of the Advisory Association, which will participate in cross-marketing of the Initial Courses and will identify each Initial Course as owned by the Company, thereby increasing the golfing consumer's
brand name awareness of the Company. Membership in the Advisory Association also is designed to provide the Initial Lessees as a group greater purchasing power with vendors than as individuals. Additionally, the Advisory Association is expected to provide a means of ensuring a consistent, high-quality product at each of the Initial Courses. In conjunction with management of the Company, the Advisory Association will review and analyze any disputes between the Company and an Initial Lessee concerning annual capital and operating budgets and will also, in conjunction with the Company, confirm each Initial Lessee's compliance with its repair and maintenance obligations under each Participating Lease.
MAINTENANCE AND MODIFICATIONS. Each Initial Lessee will, at its sole cost and expense, maintain and operate its respective Leased Property in good order, repair and appearance and will make structural and non-structural, interior and exterior foreseen and unforeseen, and ordinary and extraordinary repairs which may be necessary and appropriate to keep such Leased Property in good order, repair and appearance. Each Initial Lessee will also maintain each Initial Course it leases in accordance with the condition of the Initial Course at the commencement of the Participating Lease and otherwise in a condition comparable to other comparable golf courses in the vicinity of that Initial Course. If the Company, in consultation with the Advisory Association, determines that an Initial Lessee has failed to comply with its maintenance and operation obligations, then the Company shall provide a written list to the Initial Lessee setting forth the remedial work and/or steps to be performed. If the Initial Lessee disputes the Company's assertions, then the matter shall be handled by a committee composed of members of the Advisory Association and representatives of the Company. The Company will not be required to build or rebuild any improvements on any Leased Property, or to make any repairs, replacements, alterations, restorations or renewals of any nature or description to any Leased Property, whether ordinary or extraordinary, structural or non-structural, foreseen or unforeseen, or to make any expenditure whatsoever with respect thereto, in connection with any Participating Lease, or to maintain any Leased Property in any way. In the event that the Company elects to make capital improvements on a Initial Course, the Company will generally condition such election on an increase in minimum rent under the Participating Lease with respect to such Initial Course to reflect such expenditures.
The Company will maintain with respect to each Initial Course a Capital Replacement Fund in an amount equal to between 2% and 3% of Gross Golf Revenues at such Initial Course, depending on certain factors, including the condition of the structures and the age and condition of the Initial Course. The Company and each Initial Lessee will agree on the use of funds in these reserves and the Company has the right to approve each Initial Lessee's annual and long-term capital expenditure budgets. Funds in the Capital Replacement Fund shall be paid to an Initial Lessee to reimburse such Initial Lessee for expenditures made in connection with capital replacements. Amounts in the Capital Replacement Fund will be deemed to accrue interest at a money market rate of interest. Any amounts in the Capital Replacement Fund at the expiration of the applicable Participating Lease will be retained by the Company.
During the Fixed Term and each Extended Term, each Initial Lessee, at its sole cost and expense, may make alterations, additions, changes and/or improvements ("Initial Lessee Improvements") to each Leased Property, without the Company's prior written consent, provided such alterations do not diminish the value or appearance of the Initial Course. All such Initial Lessee Improvements will be subject to all the terms and provisions of each applicable Lease and will become the property of the Company upon termination of such Lease.
At the end of the Participating Lease, all remaining personal property on the Leased Property will become the property of the Company.
INSURANCE. Each Initial Lessee maintains insurance on each Leased Property it leases under insurance policies providing for all-risk, liability, flood (if carried by comparable golf course facilities in the area and otherwise available at commercially reasonable rates) and worker's compensation, of the type usual and commonly obtained in connection with the properties similar in building size and use to the Leased Property and located in the geographic area where the Leased Property is located. Each insurance policy names the Company as an additional insured or loss payee, as applicable.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS. Each Initial Lessee has made various representations and warranties relating to environmental matters in respect of the applicable Leased Property in each Participating Lease.
ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING. An Initial Lessee may not, without the prior written consent of the Company (which consent may be withheld by the Company in its sole discretion, except in limited instances), assign, mortgage, pledge, hypothecate, encumber or otherwise transfer any Participating Lease or any interest therein, all or any part of the Leased Property or suffer or permit any lease or the leasehold estate created thereby or any other rights arising under any Participating Lease to be assigned, transferred, mortgaged, pledged, hypothecated or encumbered, in whole or in part, whether voluntarily, involuntarily or by operation of law. An assignment of a Participating Lease will be deemed to include any change of control of such Initial Lessee, as if such change of control were an assignment of the Participating Lease. Each Initial Lessee shall have the right to assign its Participating Lease to its affiliates.
Each Prior Owner shall retain the right to use the existing portion of any club house or other improvements on a Initial Course for its continued corporate operations not associated with the Initial Course.
Each Initial Lessee may, with the Company's prior approval, which approval the Company may withhold in its discretion, be permitted to sublease portions of any Leased Property to sublessees who will operate portions (but not the entirety) of the operations customarily associated with or incidental to the operation of a golf course (e.g, driving range, restaurant, etc.).
COMPANY'S RIGHT OF FIRST OFFER. In the event the Initial Lessee desires to sell its interest in its Participating Lease to an unaffiliated third party, it must first offer the Company or its designee the right to purchase such interest. The Initial Lessee must give the Company written notice of its intent to sell, which shall indicate the terms and conditions upon which such Initial Lessee intends to sell its interest in the Participating Lease. The Company or its designee shall thereafter have a period of 60 days to elect to purchase the leasehold interest on the terms and conditions at which such Initial Lessee proposes to sell its interest. If the Company or its designee elects not to purchase the interest of the Initial Lessee, then such Initial Lessee shall be free to sell its interest to a third party, subject to the Company's approval as described below. However, if the terms on which the Initial Lessee intends to sell its interest are reduced by 5% or more then such Initial Lessee shall again offer the Company the right to acquire its interest, provided the Company shall have only 15 days to accept such offer.
INITIAL LESSEE'S RIGHT OF FIRST OFFER. The Company may sell an Initial Course, but must first offer the Initial Lessee of such course the right to purchase the Initial Course. The Company must give the relevant Initial Lessee written notice of its intent to sell, which shall indicate the terms and conditions upon which the Company intends to sell such Initial Course. Such Initial Lessee shall thereafter have a period of 60 days to elect to purchase the Initial Course on the terms and conditions at which the Company proposes to sell the Initial Course. If such Initial Lessee elects not to purchase the Initial Course, then the Company shall be free to sell the Initial Course to a third party. However, if the terms on which the Company intends to sell the Initial Course are reduced by 5% or more, then the Company shall again offer such Initial Lessee the right to acquire the Initial Course upon the same terms and conditions, provided that such Initial Lessee shall have only 15 days to accept such offer.
DAMAGE TO, OR CONDEMNATION OF, A LEASED PROPERTY. In the event of damage to or destruction of any Leased Property which is caused by an insured risk, the Initial Lessee will be obligated diligently to restore the Leased Property to substantially the same condition as existed immediately prior to such damage or destruction and, to the extent the insurance proceeds and the Capital Replacement Fund are insufficient to do so, such Initial Lessee will be obligated to contribute the excess funds needed to restore the Leased Property. Any excess insurance proceeds will be paid to the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the damage or destruction of the Leased Property renders the Leased Property unsuitable for use as a golf course for a period of 12 months or more, the Initial Lessee may terminate the Participating Lease.
INDEMNIFICATION GENERALLY. Under each Participating Lease, the applicable Initial Lessee will agree to indemnify, and is obligated to hold harmless, the Company from and against all liabilities, obligations, claims, actual or consequential damages, penalties, causes of action, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) imposed upon or asserted against the Company as owner of the applicable Leased Property on account of, among other things, (i) any accident, injury to or death of a person or loss of or damage to property on or about the Leased Property, (ii) any use, non-use, condition, maintenance or repair misuse, by such Initial Lessee of the Leased Property, (iii) any
impositions (which are the obligations of the relevant Initial Lessee to pay pursuant to the applicable provisions of such Participating Lease) or the operations thereon, (iv) any failure on the part of such Initial Lessee to perform or comply with any of the terms of the Participating Lease or any sublease, (v) any taxes levied against such Leased Property, and (vi) any liability the Company may incur or suffer as a result of any permitted contest by such Initial Lessee under any Participating Lease.
EVENTS OF DEFAULT. Events of Default are defined in each Participating Lease to include, among others, the following:
(i) if an Initial Lessee fails to make a rent payment when such payment becomes due and payable and such failure is not cured by such Initial Lessee within a period of 10 days after receipt of written notice thereof from the Company;
(ii) if an Initial Lessee fails to observe or perform any material term, covenant or condition of a Participating Lease and such failure is not cured by such Initial Lessee within a period of 30 days after receipt by such Initial Lessee of written notice thereof from the Company, unless such failure cannot with due diligence be cured within a period of 30 days, in which case such failure will not constitute an Event of Default if such Initial Lessee proceeds promptly and with due diligence to cure the failure and diligently completes the curing thereof, within 120 days;
(iii) if an Initial Lessee: (a) admits in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, (b) files a petition in bankruptcy or a petition to take advantage of any insolvency act, (c) makes an assignment for the benefit of its creditors, (d) is unable to pay its debts as they mature, (e) consents to the appointment of a receive of itself or of the whole or any substantial part of its property, or (f) files a petition or answer seeking reorganization or arrangement under the federal bankruptcy laws or any other applicable law or statute of the United States of America or any state thereof;
(iv) if such Initial Lessee is liquidated or dissolved;
(v) if such Initial Lessee voluntarily ceases operations on the Leased Property, except as a result of damage, destruction or a partial or complete condemnation or other unavoidable delays; or
(vi) if such Initial Lessee or an affiliate thereof is in default under any other Participating Lease with the Company.
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing under a Participating Lease, then the Company may terminate the Participating Lease by giving such Initial Lessee not less than 10 days notice (only if required by the Participating Lease) of such termination and upon the expiration of such time, the Fixed or Extended Term, as the case may be, will terminate and all rights of such Initial Lessee under such Participating Lease shall cease.
GOVERNING LAW. The Participating Leases will be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the state where the Initial Course is located. Because the Initial Courses are located in various states, the Participating Leases may be subject to restrictions imposed by applicable local law.
ITEM 3.