Item 2: Properties--Tenant Information for further discussion on the Company's tenant base.)
Employees
As of March 22, 2001, the Company, through the Operating Partnership and KSI employed 143 persons. The Company, the Operating Partnership and KSI believe that relations with their employees are good.
Government Regulations
Many laws and governmental regulations are applicable to the Company's properties and changes in these laws and regulations, or their interpretation by agencies and the courts, occur frequently.
Costs of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the "ADA"), all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Although management believes that its properties substantially comply with present requirements of the ADA, none of its properties have been audited and investigations of all of its properties have not been conducted to determine compliance. The Company may incur additional costs of complying with the ADA. Additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to the Company's properties, or restrict its ability to renovate the properties. Management cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If the Company incurs substantial costs to comply with the ADA and any other legislation, its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, quoted per share trading price of its common stock and ability to pay distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected.
Environmental Matters
Costs related to government regulation and private litigation. Environmental laws and regulations hold the Company liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances released on its properties. These laws could impose liability without regard to whether the Company is responsible for, or even knew of, the presence or release of the hazardous materials. Government investigations and remediation actions may have substantial costs and the presence of hazardous substances on a property could result in personal injury or similar claims by private plaintiffs. For instance, if asbestos-containing materials and other
hazardous or toxic substances were found on the Company's properties, third parties might seek recovery from the Company for personal injuries associated with the existence of those substances. As of December 31, 2000, 30 of the Company's properties contained asbestos-containing materials. Various laws also impose liability on persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at the disposal or treatment facility. These laws often impose liability whether or not the person arranging for the disposal ever owned or operated the disposal facility. As the owner and operator of its properties, the Company may be considered to have arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances.
Use of hazardous materials by some of our tenants. Some of the Company's tenants routinely handle hazardous substances and wastes on its properties as part of their routine operations. Environmental laws and regulations subject these tenants, and potentially the Company, to liability resulting from such activities. The Company requires its tenants, in their leases, to comply with these environmental laws and regulations and to indemnify the Company for any related liabilities. As of December 31, 2000, less than 5% of the Company's tenants routinely handled hazardous substances and/or wastes on the Company's properties as part of their routine operations. These tenants were primarily involved in the light industrial and warehouse business and more specifically the light electronics assembly business. Management does not believe that these activities by its tenants will have any material adverse effect on the Company's operations. Furthermore, management is unaware of any material noncompliance, liability or claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products in connection with any of the Company's properties.
Existing conditions at some of our properties. Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or similar environmental site assessments on all of the Company's properties. The Company generally obtains these assessments prior to the acquisition of a property and may later update them as required for subsequent financing of the property or as requested by tenants. Site assessments generally include a historical review, a public records review, an investigation of the surveyed site and surrounding properties, and the issuance of a written report. These assessments do not generally include soil samplings or subsurface investigations. The Company's site assessments revealed that 30 of its properties contain asbestos- containing materials and that historical operations at or near some of its properties, including the operation of underground storage tanks, may have caused soil or groundwater contamination. Prior owners of the affected properties conducted clean-up of contamination in the soils on the properties and management does not believe that further clean-up of the soils is required. None of the Company's site assessments revealed any other environmental liability that management believes would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, assets, or results of operations. Management is not aware of any such condition, liability, or concern by any other means that would give rise to material environmental liability. However, the assessments may have failed to reveal all environmental conditions, liabilities, or compliance concerns; there may be material environmental conditions, liabilities, or compliance concerns that arose at a property after the review was completed; future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material additional environmental liability; and current environmental conditions at the Company's properties may be affected in the future by tenants, third parties, or the condition of land or operations near its properties (such as the presence of underground storage tanks). The Company cannot give assurance that the costs of future environmental compliance will not affect its ability to make distributions to stockholders.
Environmental insurance coverage limits. The Company carries what management believes to be sufficient environmental insurance to cover any potential liability for soil and groundwater contamination at the affected sites identified in the environmental site assessments. However, management cannot provide any assurance that the Company's insurance coverage will be sufficient or that its liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of its operations, cash flow, quoted per share trading price of its common stock and ability to pay distributions to stockholders.
Other federal, state and local regulations. The Company's properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If the Company failed to comply with these various requirements, it might incur governmental fines or private damage awards.
Management believes that the Company's properties are currently in material compliance with all of these regulatory requirements. However, management does not know whether existing requirements will change or whether future requirements will require the Company to make significant unanticipated expenditures that will adversely affect its ability to make distributions to its stockholders. The City of Los Angeles adopted regulations relating to the repair of welded steel moment frames located in certain areas damaged as a result of the January 17, 1994 Northridge earthquake in Southern California. Currently, these regulations apply to only one of the Company's properties representing approximately 78,000 rentable square feet. Management believes that this property complies with these regulations. Management does not know, however, whether other regulatory agencies will adopt similar regulations or whether the Company will acquire additional properties which may be subject to these or similar regulations. Management believes, based in part on engineering reports which are generally obtained at the time the properties are acquired, that all of its properties comply in all material respects with the current regulations. However, if the Company were required to make significant expenditures under applicable regulations, its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, quoted per share trading price of its common stock and ability to pay distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected.
Business Risks
This document contains certain forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"), and Section 21E of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act")) pertaining to, among other things, the Company's future results of operations, cash available for distribution, property acquisitions, lease renewals, increases in base rent, development activities, sources of growth, planned development and expansion of owned or leased property, capital requirements, compliance with contractual obligations and federal, state and local regulations, conditions of properties, environmental findings and general business, industry and economic conditions applicable to the Company. These statements are based largely on the Company's current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Factors that can cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. The following factors should be considered in addition to the other information contained herein in evaluating the Company and its business:
Most of the Company's properties depend upon the Southern California economy. As of December 31, 2000, 89.7% of the aggregate square footage of the Company's stabilized portfolio and 92.2% of the Company's annualized base rent, excluding expense reimbursements and rental abatements, came from properties located in Southern California. The Company's ability to make expected distributions to stockholders depends on its ability to generate Funds From Operations in excess of scheduled principal payments on debt, payments on the preferred limited partnership units issued by the Operating Partnership, and capital expenditure requirements. Events and conditions applicable to owners and operators of real property that are beyond the Company's control may decrease funds available for distribution and the value of the Company's properties. These events include: local oversupply or reduction in demand of office, industrial or other commercial space; inability to collect rent from tenants; vacancies or inability to rent spaces on favorable terms; inability to finance property development and acquisitions on favorable terms; increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, utilities, and real estate taxes; costs of complying with changes in governmental regulations; the relative illiquidity of real estate investments; changing submarket demographics and property damage resulting from seismic activity. The geographical concentration of the Company's properties may expose it to greater economic risks than if it owned properties in several geographic regions. Any adverse economic or real estate developments in the Southern California region could adversely impact the Company's financial condition, results from operations and cash flows.
Increasing utility costs and power outages in California may have an adverse effect on the Company's operating results. Uncertainties and problems associated with the deregulation of the electric industry in California have resulted in higher utility costs and intermittent service interruptions in some areas of the state.
However, approximately 75% (based on net rentable square footage) of the Company's current leases require tenants to pay utility costs directly; therefore, eliminating the Company's exposure. The remaining 25% of the Company's leases provide that the tenants reimburse the Company for utility costs in excess of a base year amount.
Although the Company has not experienced any material trends or effects arising from this regional issue, it is possible that some of its tenants may not fulfill their lease obligations or reimburse the Company for their share of any significant utility increases. In addition it is possible that the Company may not be able to retain or replace its tenants if energy problems in California continue or worsen. As a result the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be adversely affected.
The Company's debt level reduces cash available for distribution and may expose the Company to the risk of default under its debt obligations. Payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave the Company with insufficient cash resources to operate its properties or to pay distributions necessary to maintain its REIT qualification. The Company's level of debt and the limitations imposed by its debt agreements may have important consequences on the Company, including the following: cash flow may be insufficient to meet required principal and interest payments; the Company may be unable to refinance its indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of its original indebtedness; the Company may be forced to dispose of one or more of its properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms; the Company may default on its obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on the properties that secure the loans and receive an assignment of rents and leases; the Company's default under one mortgage loan with cross default provisions could result in a default on other indebtedness; and the Company may be unable to complete its development plans or pursue other development opportunities. If one or more of these events were to occur, the Company's financial position, results of operations, cash flow, quoted per share trading price of its common stock and ability to pay distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected. In addition, foreclosures could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, a circumstance which could hinder the Company's ability to meet the strict REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. As of December 31, 2000, the Company had approximately $724 million aggregate principal amount of indebtedness, $5.7 million of which is due prior to December 31, 2001. The Company's total debt represented 41.9% of its total market capitalization at December 31, 2000.
The Company faces significant competition which may decrease the occupancy and rental rates of its properties. The Company competes with several developers, owners and operators of office, industrial and other commercial real estate, many of which have higher vacancy rates. Substantially all of the Company's properties are located in areas with similar properties as its competitors. For instance, the occupancy rate for the Company's Long Beach Airport office property portfolio at December 31, 2000 was 94.1%, in comparison to 90.9%, for the Long Beach Airport office submarket in total. The Company believes that its lower vacancy rates means that, on average, its competitors have more space currently available for lease than the Company. As a result, the Company's competitors have an incentive to decrease rental rates until their available space is leased. If the Company's competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, the Company may be pressured to reduce its rental rates below those currently charged in order to retain tenants when its tenant leases expire. As a result, the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected.
Potential losses may not be covered by insurance. The Company carries comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss insurance covering all of its properties. Management believes the policy specifications and insured limits are appropriate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage and industry practice. The Company does not carry insurance for generally uninsurable losses such as loss from riots or acts of God. Some of the Company's policies, like those covering losses due to floods, are subject to limitations involving large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits. In addition, the Company carries earthquake insurance on properties located in areas known to be subject to earthquakes in an amount and with
deductions which management believes are commercially reasonable. As of December 31, 2000, 80 of the Office Properties aggregating 6.1 million square feet (representing approximately 49.0% of the Company's stabilized portfolio based on aggregate square footage and approximately 70.4% based on annualized base rent) were located in areas known to be subject to earthquakes. As of December 31, 2000, 74 of the Company's Industrial Properties aggregating 5.4 million square feet (representing approximately 43.4% of the Company's stabilized portfolio based on aggregate square footage and approximately 23.5% based on annualized base rent) were located in areas known to be subject to earthquakes. While the Company presently carries earthquake insurance on these properties, the amount of its earthquake insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover losses from earthquakes. In addition, the Company may discontinue earthquake insurance on some or all of its properties in the future if the cost of premiums for earthquake insurance exceeds the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss. If the Company experiences a loss which is uninsured or which exceeds policy limits, it could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, the Company would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if the properties were unrepairable.
The Company may be unable to successfully complete and operate developed properties. There are several risks associated with property development. The Company may be unable to obtain construction financing on favorable terms or may be unable to obtain permanent financing at all or on advantageous terms if development projects are financed through construction loans. In addition, the Company may not complete development projects on schedule or within budgeted amounts; the Company may encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy, and other required governmental permits and authorizations; the Company may expend funds on and devote management's time to projects which the Company may not complete. Also, the Company may lease the developed properties at below expected rental rates. For example, during the fourth quarter of 1998, the Company withdrew its participation from a master planned commercial development prior to the commencement of construction. Also, during the third quarter of 2000, the Company delayed commencement of construction on one of its projects by four months. The project was an assemblage in an urban infill location that required the relocation of some existing businesses. The Company encountered delays when one of the existing tenants experienced difficulty in relocating as a result of the high leasing demand and tight supply constraints in that sub-market.
If one or more of these events were to occur in connection with projects currently under development, the Company's financial position, results of operations, cash flow, quoted per share trading price of its common stock and ability to pay distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected. While the Company primarily develops office and industrial properties in Southern California markets, it may in the future develop properties for retail or other use and expand its business to other geographic regions where it expects the development of property to result in favorable risk-adjusted returns on its investment. Presently, the Company does not possess the same level of familiarity with development of other property types or outside markets which could adversely affect its ability to develop properties or to achieve expected performance.
The Company may be unable to complete acquisitions and successfully operate acquired properties. The Company may acquire office and industrial properties when strategic opportunities exist. The Company's ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully operate them is subject to the following risks: the potential inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including both publicly traded REITs and institutional investment funds; even if the Company enters into agreements for the acquisition of office and industrial properties, these agreements are subject to customary conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations to management's satisfaction; the Company may be unable to finance the acquisition on favorable terms; the Company may spend more than budgeted amounts to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties; and the Company may lease the acquired properties at below expected rental rates. If the Company cannot finance property acquisitions on favorable terms or operate acquired properties to meet financial expectations, its financial position, results of operations, cash flow, quoted per share trading price of its common stock and ability to pay distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected.
The Company could default on leases for land on which some of its properties are located. The Company owns ten office buildings located on various parcels, each of which the Company leases on a long-term basis. If the Company defaults under the terms of any particular lease, it may lose the property subject to the lease. The Company may not be able to renegotiate a new lease on favorable terms, if at all, upon expiration of the lease and all of its options. The loss of these properties or an increase of rental expense would have an adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations, cash flow, quoted per share trading price of its common stock and ability to pay distributions to stockholders. The Company has approximately 1.3 million aggregate rentable square feet of rental space located on these leased parcels at December 31, 2000. The leases for the land under the SeaTac Office Center, including renewal options, expire in 2062. The lease for the land under 9455 Towne Center in San Diego expires in October 2043. The primary lease for the land under 12312 West Olympic Boulevard in Santa Monica expires in January 2065 with a smaller secondary lease expiring in September 2011. The leases for the land under the Kilroy Airport Center, Long Beach expire in 2035. Subsequent to December 31, 2000, the Company acquired the fee interest in the land at 9455 Towne Center Drive in San Diego, California and the ground lease was terminated.
The Company depends on significant tenants. As of March 22, 2001, the Company's ten largest office tenants represented approximately 28.9% of total annualized base rent at December 31, 2000 and its ten largest industrial tenants represented approximately 9.3% of total annualized base rent at December 31, 2000. Of this amount, its largest tenant, The Boeing Company, currently leases approximately 776,900 rentable square feet of office space, representing approximately 9.2% of the Company's total annual base rental revenues. See further discussion on the composition of the Company's tenants by industry at "Item 2 - -Properties." The Company's revenue and cash available for distribution to stockholders would be disproportionately and materially adversely affected if any of its significant tenants were to become bankrupt or insolvent, or suffer a downturn in their business, or fail to renew their leases at all or on terms less favorable to the Company than their current terms.
Downturns in tenants' businesses may reduce the Company's cash flow. As of December 31, 2000, the Company derived approximately 96.6% of its revenues from rental income and tenant reimbursements. A tenant may experience a downturn in its business, which may weaken its financial condition and result in its failure to make timely rental payments. In the event of default by a tenant, the Company may experience delays in enforcing its rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting its investment. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant also may adversely affect the income produced by the Company's properties. If any tenant becomes a debtor in a case under the Bankruptcy Code, the Company cannot evict the tenant solely because of the bankruptcy. On the other hand, the bankruptcy court might authorize the tenant to reject and terminate its lease. The Company's claim against the tenant for unpaid, future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. Even so, the Company's claim for unpaid rent would likely not be paid in full. This shortfall could adversely affect the Company's cash flow and its ability to make distributions to stockholders. Although the Company has not experienced material losses from tenant bankruptcies, the Company may experience losses as a result of tenants filing for bankruptcy protection in the future.
Subsequent to December 31, 2000, one of the Company's tenants, eToys, Inc. ("eToys"), defaulted under its lease with the Company covering 151,000 rentable square feet of office space. In connection with the execution of the lease, eToys had provided the Company with $15.0 million in letters of credit, which were established pursuant to the lease to provide credit support to eToys lease obligations. In January 2001, the Company exercised its rights under the lease and the letters of credit and drew down $15.0 million. Subsequent to the Company drawing the $15.0 million, eToys filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy laws. As discussed in the preceding paragraph, the Company may experience losses in connection with the bankruptcy of eToys, including losses resulting from costs, delays and rental rate decreases the Company may experience in its ability to release the space, and any losses resulting from the bankruptcy could be material to the Company's consolidated results from operations.
The Company may be unable to renew leases or re-let space as leases expire. As of December 31, 2000, leases representing approximately 14.2% and 6.1% of the square footage of the Company's properties will expire
in 2001 and 2002, respectively. Above market rental rates on some of the Company's properties may force it to renew or re-lease some expiring leases at lower rates. While the Company believes that the average rental rates for most of its properties are below currently quoted market rates in each of its submarkets, the Company cannot give any assurance that leases will be renewed or that its properties will be re-leased at rental rates equal to or above the current rental rates. If the rental rates for the Company's properties decrease, existing tenants do not renew their leases, or the Company does not re-lease a significant portion of its available space, its financial position, results of operations, cash flow, quoted per share trading price of its common stock and ability to pay distributions to its stockholders would be adversely affected.
Real estate assets are illiquid and the Company may not be able to sell its properties when it desires. The Company's investments in its properties are relatively illiquid which limits the Company's ability to sell its properties quickly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, generally imposes a 100% prohibited transaction tax on profits the Company derives from sales of properties held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, which could effect the Company's ability to sell properties. These restrictions on the Company' ability to sell its properties could have an adverse effect on its financial position, results from operations, cash flow, quoted per share trading price of its common stock and ability to repay indebtedness and to pay distributions to stockholders.
Common limited partners of the Operating Partnership have limited approval rights which may prevent the Company from completing a change of control transaction which may be in the best interests of stockholders. The Company may not withdraw from the Operating Partnership or transfer its general partnership interest or admit another general partner without the approval of a majority of the common limited partnership unitholders except in the case of a "termination transaction" which requires the approval of 60% of the common limited partnership unitholders, which include the Company because of its percentage holding of the common limited partnership units it holds in its capacity as general partner. The right of common limited partners to vote on these transactions could limit the Company's ability to complete a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interest of its stockholders.
Limited partners of the Operating Partnership must approve the dissolution of the Operating Partnership and the disposition of properties they contributed. For as long as limited partners own at least 5% of all of the common units of the Operating Partnership, the Company must obtain the approval of limited partners holding a majority of the common units before it may dissolve the partnership or sell the property located at 2260 East Imperial Highway at Kilroy Airport Center in El Segundo prior to January 31, 2004. As of December 31, 2000, limited partners owned approximately 12.4% of the outstanding interests in the Operating Partnership. In addition, the Company may not sell 11 of its properties prior to October 31, 2002 without the consent of the limited partners that contributed the properties to the Operating Partnership, except in connection with the sale or transfer of all or substantially all of its assets or those of the Operating Partnership or in connection with a transaction which does not cause the limited partners that contributed the property to recognize taxable income. In addition, the Operating Partnership agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to minimize the tax consequences to common limited partners resulting from the repayment, refinancing, replacement or restructuring of debt, or any sale, exchange or other disposition of any of its other assets. The exercise of one or more of these approval rights by the limited partners could delay or prevent the Company from completing a transaction which may be in the best interest of its stockholders.
The Company's Chairman of the Board of Directors and its President and Chief Executive Officer each have potential conflicts of interest with the Company.
The Company's Chairman of the Board of Directors and its President and Chief Executive Officer each have substantial influence over the Company's affairs. John B. Kilroy, Sr. and John B. Kilroy, Jr., the Company's Chairman of the Board of Directors and President and Chief Executive Officer, respectively, together hold two of the six seats on the Company's Board of Directors. They also beneficially own common limited partnership units exchangeable for an aggregate of 1,795,572 shares of the Company's common stock and currently vested options to purchase an aggregate of 433,334 shares of common stock, representing a total of approximately 8.4%
of the total outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2000. Pursuant to the Company's charter no other stockholder may own, actually or constructively, more than 7.0% of the Company's common stock. The Board of Directors has waived the ownership limits with respect to John B. Kilroy, Sr., John B., Kilroy, Jr., members of their families and some affiliated entities. Consequently, Messrs. Kilroy have substantial influence on the Company and could exercise their influence in a manner that is not in the best interest of the Company's stockholders. Also, they may, in the future, have a substantial influence on the outcome of any matters submitted to the Company's stockholders for approval.
There are limits on the ownership of the Company's capital stock which limit the opportunities for a change of control at a premium to existing stockholders. Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, the Company's charter, the Company's bylaws, and the Operating Partnership's partnership agreement may delay, defer, or prevent a change in control over the Company or the removal of existing management. Any of these actions might prevent the stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares of stock over the then prevailing market prices.
The Internal Revenue Code sets forth stringent ownership limits on the Company as a result of its decision to be taxed as a REIT, including: no more than 50% in value of the Company's capital stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals, including some entities, during the last half of a taxable year; subject to exceptions, the Company's common stock shares must be held by a minimum of 100 persons for at least 335 days of a 12-month taxable year, or a proportionate part of a short taxable year; and if the Company, or any entity which owns 10% or more of its capital stock, actually or constructively owns 10% or more of one of the Company's tenants, or a tenant of any partnership in which the Company is a partner, then any rents that the Company receives from that tenant in question will not be qualifying income for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code's REIT gross income tests regardless of whether the Company receives the rents directly or through a partnership.
The Company's charter establishes clear ownership limits to protect its REIT status. No single stockholder may own, either actually or constructively, more than 7.0% of the Company's common stock outstanding. Similarly, no single holder of the Company's Series A Preferred Stock, Series C Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock may actually or constructively own any class or series of its preferred stock, so that their total capital stock ownership would exceed 7.0% by value of the Company's total capital stock, and no single holder of Series B Preferred Stock, if issued, may actually or constructively own more than 7.0% of the Company's Series B Preferred Stock.
The Board of Directors may waive the ownership limits if it is satisfied that the excess ownership would not jeopardize the Company's REIT status and if it believes that the waiver would be in the Company's best interests. The Board of Directors has waived the ownership limits with respect to John B. Kilroy, Sr., John B. Kilroy, Jr., members of their families and some affiliated entities. These named individuals and entities may own either actually or constructively, in the aggregate, up to 21% of the outstanding common stock.
If anyone acquires shares in excess of any ownership limits, the transfer to the transferee will be void with respect to these excess shares; the excess shares will be automatically transferred from the transferee or owner to a trust for the benefit of a qualified charitable organization, the purported transferee or owner will have no right to vote those excess shares, and the purported transferee or owner will have no right to receive dividends or other distributions from these excess shares.
The Company's charter contains provisions that may delay, defer, or prevent a change of control transaction.
The Company's Board of Directors is divided into classes that serve staggered terms. The Company's Board of Directors is divided into three classes with staggered terms. The staggered terms for directors may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt to complete a change of control transaction even if a tender offer or a change in control was in the Company's stockholders' interest.
The Company could issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. The Company's charter authorizes its Board of Directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock, including convertible preferred stock, without stockholder approval. The Board of Directors may establish the preferences, rights and other terms, including the right to vote and the right to convert into common stock any shares issued. The issuance of preferred stock could delay or prevent a tender offer or a change of control even if a tender offer or a change of control was in the Company's stockholders' interest. The Operating Partnership has issued 1,500,000 Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred units which in the future may be exchanged one-for-one into shares of 8.075% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred stock, 700,000 Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred units which in the future may be exchanged one for one into shares of 9.375% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred stock, and 900,000 Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred units which in the future may be exchanged one for one into shares of 9.250% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred stock. In addition, the Company has designated and authorized the issuance of up to 400,000 shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred stock. However, no shares of preferred stock of any series are currently issued or outstanding.
The Company has a stockholders' rights plan. In October 1998, the Company's Board of Directors adopted a stockholders' rights plan and declared a distribution of one preferred share purchase right for each outstanding share of common stock. The rights have anti-takeover effects and would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire the Company on terms that the Company's Board of Directors does not approve. The Company may redeem the shares for $.01 per right, prior to the time that a person or group has acquired beneficial ownership of 15% or more of its common stock. Therefore, the rights should not interfere with any merger or business combination approved by the Company's Board of Directors.
The staggered terms for directors, the future issuance of additional common or preferred stock and the Company's stockholders rights plan may: delay or prevent a change of control, even if a change of control might be beneficial to the Company's stockholders; deter tender offers that may be beneficial to the Company's stockholders; or limit stockholders' opportunity to receive a potential premium for their shares if an investor attempted to gain shares beyond the Company's ownership limits or otherwise to effect a change of control.
Loss of the Company's REIT status would have significant adverse consequences to it and the value of the Company's stock. The Company currently operates and has operated since 1997 in a manner that is intended to allow it to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code. If the Company were to lose its REIT status, it would face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to stockholders for each of the years involved because: the Company would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing its taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; the Company could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and unless entitled to relief under statutory provisions, the Company could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which it was disqualified. In addition, if the Company fails to qualify as a REIT, it will not be required to make distributions to stockholders and all distributions to stockholders will be subject to tax as ordinary income to the extent of the Company's current and accumulated earnings and profits. As a result of all these factors, the Company's failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair its ability to expand its business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of the Company's common stock.
Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code is greater in the case of a REIT that holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within the Company's control may affect its ability to qualify as a REIT. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of the Company's gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources. Also, the Company must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 95% of its net taxable income (90% beginning January 1, 2001), excluding capital gains. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect the
Company's investors or the Company's ability to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes. Although management believes that the Company is organized and operates in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT, no assurance can be given that the Company has been or will continue to be organized or be able to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for tax purposes.
To maintain its REIT status, the Company may be forced to borrow funds on a short-term basis during unfavorable market conditions. To qualify as a REIT, the Company generally must distribute to its stockholders at least 95% (90% beginning January 1, 2001) of its net taxable income each year, excluding capital gains, and the Company is subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that it distributes less than 100% of its net taxable income each year. In addition, the Company will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions paid in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of its ordinary income, 95% of its capital gain net income and 100% of its undistributed income from prior years. In order to maintain its REIT status, the Company may need to borrow funds on a short term basis to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments.
The Company's growth depends on external sources of capital which are outside of the Company's control. The Company is required under the Internal Revenue Code to distribute at least 95% of its taxable income (90% beginning January 1, 2001), determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain. Because of this distribution requirement, it may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary development financing, from operating cash flow. Consequently, management relies on third-party sources of capital to fund the Company's capital needs. The Company may not be able to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all. Any additional debt the Company incurs will increase its leverage. Access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on: general market conditions; the market's perception of the Company's growth potential; the Company's current and expected future earnings; the Company's cash distributions; and the market price per share of the Company's common stock. If the Company cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, it may not be able to acquire properties when strategic opportunities exist or make the cash distributions to stockholders necessary to maintain its qualification as a REIT.
The Company's Board of Directors may change investment and financing policies without stockholder approval and become more highly leveraged which may increase the Company's risk of default under its debt obligations.
The Company is not limited in its ability to incur debt. The Company's Board of Directors adopted a policy of limiting indebtedness to approximately 50% of the Company's total market capitalization. Total market capitalization is the market value of the Company's capital stock, including interests and units exchangeable for shares of capital stock, plus total debt. However, the Company's organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness, funded or otherwise, that it may incur. The Company's Board of Directors may alter or eliminate management's current policy on borrowing at any time without stockholder approval. If this policy changed, the Company could become more highly leveraged which would result in an increase in its debt service and which could adversely affect cash flow and the ability to make expected distributions to stockholders. Higher leverage also increases the risk of default on the Company's obligations.
The Company may issue additional shares of capital stock without stockholder approval that may dilute shareholder investment. The Company may issue shares of its common stock, preferred stock or other equity or debt securities without stockholder approval. Similarly, the Company may cause the Operating Partnership to offer its common or preferred units for contributions of cash or property without approval by the limited partners of the Operating Partnership or the Company's stockholders. Existing stockholders have no preemptive rights to acquire any of these securities, and any issuance of equity securities under these circumstances may dilute a stockholder's investment.
The Company may invest in securities related to real estate which could adversely affect its ability to make distributions to stockholders. The Company may purchase securities issued by entities which own real estate and may, in the future, also invest in mortgages. In general, investments in mortgages include several risks, including: borrowers may fail to make debt service payments or pay the principal when due; the value of the mortgaged property may be less than the principal amount of the mortgage note securing the property; and interest rates payable on the mortgages may be lower than the Company's cost for the funds used to acquire these mortgages. Owning these securities may not entitle the Company to control the ownership, operation and management of the underlying real estate. In addition, the Company may have no control over the distributions with respect to these securities, which could adversely affect its ability to make distributions to stockholders.
Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock, or the perception that this could occur, could result in decreasing the market price per share for the Company's common stock. Management cannot predict whether future issuances of shares of the Company's common stock or the availability of shares for resale in the open market will result in decreasing the market price per share of its common stock.
As of December 31, 2000, 26,475,470 shares of the Company's common stock were issued and outstanding and the Company had reserved for future issuance the following shares of common stock: 3,748,545 shares issuable upon the exchange, at the Company's option, of common units issued in connection with the formation of the Operating Partnership and in connection with property acquisitions; 2,704,930 shares issuable under the Company's 1997 Stock Option and Incentive Plan; and 1,000,000 shares issuable under the Company's Dividend Reinvestment and Direct Stock Purchase Plan. Of the 26,475,470 shares of common stock presently outstanding, all but 195,000 shares may be freely traded in the public market by persons other than the Company's affiliates. In addition, the Company has filed or has agreed to file registration statements covering all of the shares of common stock reserved for future issuance. Consequently, if and when the shares are issued, they may be freely traded in the public markets.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
General
As of December 31, 2000, the Company's portfolio of stabilized operating properties was comprised of 83 Office Properties and 78 Industrial Properties which encompassed an aggregate of approximately 6.6 million and 5.8 million rentable square feet, respectively. The Properties include 21 properties that the Company developed and then stabilized during 2000 and 1999 encompassing an aggregate of approximately 809,000 and 1.2 million rentable square feet, respectively. As of December 31, 2000, the Office Properties were approximately 96.2% leased to 302 tenants and the Industrial Properties were 97.8% leased to 220 tenants. All but ten of the Properties are located in Southern California.
The Company's stabilized portfolio excludes projects currently under construction or in pre-development and "lease-up" properties. The Company defines "lease-up" properties as properties recently developed by the Company that have not yet reached 95% occupancy. The Company had one lease-up property at December 31, 2000, encompassing an aggregate of 197,300 rentable square feet, which stabilized on January 15, 2001. As of December 31, 2000, the Company had 11 office properties under construction or committed for construction which when completed are expected to encompass an aggregate of approximately 964,400 rentable square feet at a total estimated investment of approximately $232 million. All of the Company's development projects are located in Southern California.
In general, the Office Properties are leased to tenants on a full service gross basis and the Industrial Properties are leased to tenants on a triple net basis. Under a full service lease, the landlord is obligated to pay the tenant's proportionate share of taxes, insurance and operating expenses up to the amount incurred during the tenant's first year of occupancy ("Base Year") or a negotiated amount approximating the tenant's pro rata share of real estate taxes, insurance and operating expenses ("Expense Stop"). The tenant pays its pro-rata share of increases in expenses above the Base Year or Expense Stop. Under a triple net lease, tenants pay their proportionate share of real estate taxes, operating costs and utility costs.
The Company believes that all of its properties are well maintained and, based on engineering reports obtained within the last five years, do not require significant capital improvements. As of December 31, 2000, the Company managed all of its 83 Office Properties and 76 of its 78 Industrial Properties through internal property managers.
The Office and Industrial Properties
The following table sets forth certain information relating to each of the Office and Industrial Properties owned as of December 31, 2000. The Company (through the Operating Partnership and the Finance Partnership) owns a 100% interest in all of the Office and Industrial Properties, except for the six office buildings located at 3579 Valley Center Drive, 5005/5010 Wateridge Vista Drive and 4955 Directors Place in which the Company owns a 50% interest through the Development LLCs, and the six office buildings located at Kilroy Airport Center, Long Beach, three office buildings located at the SeaTac Office Center, and one office building located at 9455 Towne Center Drive in San Diego, California, each of which are held subject to leases for the land on which the properties are located expiring in 2035, 2062, and 2043 (assuming the exercise of the Company's options to extend such leases), respectively. Subsequent to December 31, 2000, the Company acquired the fee interest in the land at 9455 Towne Center Drive in San Diego, California and the ground lease was terminated.
(footnotes on next page)
- -------- (1) Based on all leases at the respective properties in effect as of December 31, 2000.
(2) Calculated as base rent for the year ended December 31, 2000, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), and annualized to reflect a twelve-month period. Unless otherwise indicated, leases at the Industrial Properties are written on a triple net basis and leases at the Office Properties are written on a full service gross basis, with the landlord obligated to pay the tenant's proportionate share of taxes, insurance and operating expenses up to the amount incurred during the tenant's first year of occupancy ("Base Year") or a negotiated amount approximating the tenant's pro rata share of real estate taxes, insurance and operating expenses ("Expense Stop"). Each tenant pays its pro rata share of increases in expenses above the Base Year of Expense Stop.
(3) Calculated as Annual Base Rent divided by net rentable square feet leased at December 31, 2000.
(4) The four properties at 5151-5155 Camino Ruiz were built between 1982 and 1985.
(5) For this property, leases with The Boeing Company for approximately 96,000 rentable square feet and SDRC Software Products Marketing Division, Inc. for approximately 6,800 rentable square feet are written on a full service gross basis, except that there is no Expense Stop.
(6) For this property, the lease with The Boeing Company is written on a modified full service gross basis under which The Boeing Company pays for all utilities and other internal maintenance costs with respect to the leased space and, in addition, pays its pro rata share of real estate taxes, insurance, and certain other expenses including common area expenses.
(7) For this property, the lease is written on a triple net basis.
(8) For this property, leases with The Boeing Company for approximately 103,000 rentable square feet are written on a full service gross basis, except that there is no Expense Stop.
(9) For this property, a lease for approximately 41,000 rentable square feet is written on a modified gross basis, with the tenant paying its share of taxes and insurance above base year amounts. The leases for the remaining 23,000 rentable square feet are written on a full service gross basis.
(10) For this property, leases for approximately 70,500 rentable square feet are written on a full service gross basis, with the tenants paying no expense reimbursement, leases for approximately 48,500 rentable square feet are written on a modified full service gross basis, and leases for approximately 21,000 rentable square feet are written on a triple net basis.
(11) This property includes an expansion building with 71,000 rentable square feet developed by the Company in 2000.
(12) The leases for this property are written on a modified net basis, with the tenants responsible for their pro-rata share of common area expenses and real estate taxes.
(13) For this property, a lease for 60,840 rentable square feet is written on a triple net basis.
(14) For this property, the leases are written on a modified full service gross basis, with the tenants responsible for paying utilities directly.
(15) For this property, a lease for 15,728 rentable square feet is written on a triple net basis, and leases for 15,114 rentable square feet are written on a modified full service gross basis.
(16) The leases for these industrial properties are written on a modified triple net basis, with the tenants responsible for estimated allocated common area expenses.
(17) The seven properties at the Brea Industrial Complex were built between 1981 and 1988.
(18) The six properties at the Garden Grove Industrial Complex were built between 1971 and 1985.
(19) For this property, the lease is written on a full service gross basis.
(20) For this property, leases for approximately 53,000 rentable square feet are written on a full service gross basis, with the tenants paying no expense reimbursement, leases for approximately 53,000 rentable square feet are written on a modified triple net basis with the tenants responsible for estimated allocated common area expenses.
(21) This industrial property was originally designed for multi-tenant use and currently is leased to a single tenant and utilized as an indoor multi- vendor retail marketplace.
(22) For this property, leases for approximately 115,500 rentable square feet are written on a triple net basis and, leases for approximately 46,500 rentable square feet are written on a full service basis, with the tenants paying no expense reimbursement.
(23) This two-building property was managed by third-party property managers at December 31, 2000.
Development Projects
The following table sets forth certain information relating to each of the development projects that the Company had under construction at December 31, 2000. The table also sets forth projects committed for future development at December 31, 2000. The Company owns a 100% interest in all of the development projects other than Peregrine Systems Corporate Center--Building 3 and Sorrento Gateway--Lot 4 in which the Company owns a 50% managing interest through one of the Development LLCs. The Company had one lease-up property at December 31, 2000, encompassing an aggregate of approximately 197,300 rentable square feet, which stabilized on January 15, 2001. The remaining eight development properties completed by the Company during 2000, encompassing an aggregate of approximately 809,000 rentable square feet, were stabilized at December 31, 2000. All of the development projects under construction and committed for development at December 31, 2000 were office projects.
- -------- (1) Based on management's estimation of the earlier of stabilized occupancy (95.0%) or one year from the date of substantial completion.
(2) Represents total projected development costs at December 31, 2000.
(3) Represents executed leases and signed letters of intent to lease calculated on a square footage basis at December 31, 2000.
(4) Project is being developed by a Development LLC in which the Company holds a 50% managing interest. The estimated investment figure includes the capital required to purchase the remaining 50% interest in the project.
(5) The Company owned a 25% tenancy-in-common interest in this project at December 31, 2000 and acquired the remaining 75% tenancy-in-common interest on January 9, 2001.
Tenant Information
The following table sets forth information as to the Company's ten largest office and industrial tenants as of March 22, 2001 based upon annualized rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2000.
- -------- (1) Determined on a straight-line basis over the term of the related lease in accordance with GAAP.
(2) Represents date of first relationship between tenant and the Company or the Company's predecessor, the Kilroy Group.
(3) Subsequent to December 31, 2000, one of the Company's tenants, eToys, Inc. ("eToys"), defaulted on its lease and declared bankruptcy. In January 2001, the Company drew $15.0 million under letters of credit that the Company held as credit support under the terms of the lease. The eToys lease for 151,000 rentable square feet would have represented approximately $5.6 million or 3.3% of the Company's annual base rental revenues at December 31, 2000 had eToys not defaulted on their lease subsequent to year end.
(4) Boeing Commercial Airplane Group lease at Sea Tac Office Center expires in December 2004. The Boeing Company leases at Kilroy Airport Center Long Beach of 49,988, 43,636, 6,814, 26,620, 24,536, 11,100, 8,404 and 15,547 net rentable square feet expire January 2002, August 2005, January 2001, December 2001 (26,620 and 24,536), June 2005, August 2005, and September 2005, respectively. Boeing Satellite Systems, Inc. leases of 286,151 and 100,978 net rentable square feet expire July 2004 and January 2004, respectively; and a lease of 7,515 expires November 2001, respectively.
(5) Peregrine Systems, Inc. leases of 52,375, 129,680 and 112,067 net rentable square feet expire September 2010, April 2012 and July 2011, respectively.
(6) Epson America, Inc. leases of 162,858 and 3,717 net rentable square feet expire October 2009 and October 2002, respectively.
(7) Northwest Airlines, Inc. leases of 60,000 and 27,861 net rentable square feet began on initial lease dates of August 1978 and May 1980 and expire February 2001 and April 2005, respectively.
(8) Targus, Inc. leases of 200,646 and 65,447 net rentable square feet expire March 2009 and October 2005, respectively.
(9) Southern Plastic Mold, Inc. leases of 144,000 and 44,000 rentable square feet expire September 2003 and February 2005, respectively.
(10) Extron Electronics leases of 100,000 and 57,730 net rentable square feet expire April 2005 and January 2005, respectively.
At December 31, 2000, the Company's tenant base was comprised of the following industries, broken down by percentage of total portfolio base rent: manufacturing, 34.1%; services, 32.3%; transportation, communications and public utilities, 11.5%; finance, insurance and real estate, 10.7%; wholesale trade, 4.6%; retail trade, 3.5%; government, 2.1%; construction, 1.0%; and agriculture, forestry and fishing, 0.2%. Following is a list comprised of a representative sample of 25 of the Company's tenants whose annual base rental revenues were less than 1.0% of the Company's total annual base revenue at December 31, 2000:
Lease Expirations
The following table sets forth a summary of the Company's lease expirations for the Office and Industrial Properties for each of the ten years beginning with 2001, assuming that none of the tenants exercise renewal options or termination rights.
(footnotes on next page)
- -------- (1) Includes tenants only. Excludes leases for amenity, retail, parking and month-to-month tenants. Some tenants have multiple leases.
(2) Based on total leased square footage for the respective portfolios as of December 31, 2000 unless a lease for a replacement tenant had been executed on or before January 1, 2001.
(3) Determined based upon aggregate base rent to be received over the term divided by the term in months multiplied by 12, including all leases executed on or before January 1, 2001.
Secured Debt
At December 31, 2000, the Operating Partnership had 14 secured mortgage and construction loans outstanding, representing aggregate indebtedness of approximately $433 million, which were secured by certain of the Properties and development projects (the "Secured Obligations"). See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-- Liquidity and Capital Resources" and Note 6 to the Company's consolidated financial statements included herewith. Management believes that as of December 31, 2000, the value of the properties securing the respective Secured Obligations in each case exceeded the principal amount of the outstanding obligation.
ITEM 3.