Item 2. Properties.
Land Ownership and Mining Rights
The Company acquired its initial property interests in 1985 and has since acquired additional properties in the area. GQM LLC holds directly or controls via agreement a total of 33 patented lode mining claims, 189 unpatented lode mining claims, one patented millsite, 17 unpatented millsites, one unpatented placer claim and owns upwards of 980 acres (400 hectares) of fee land, which together make up the Property. The Property is located west of California State Highway 14 and lies largely south of Silver Queen Road covering all of Section 6 and portions of Sections 5, 7 and 8 in Township 10 North, Range 12 West; portions of Sections 1 and 12 in Township 10 North, Range 13 West; portions of Section 18 in Township 9 North, Range 12 West, and portions of Section 32 in Township 11 North, Range 12 West, all from the San Bernardino Baseline and Meridian. Some of the ancillary facilities required for a mining operation will be located in Section 6, T10N, R12W. Two production water wells were drilled in Section 32, T11N, R12W and a third production water well was drilled in Section 1, T11N, R12W.
A Project location map is shown in Figure 1 below.
Figure 1
GQM LLC holds the properties either directly or under mining lease agreements with a number of individual landholders, two groups of landholders and three incorporated entities. The land required for the Project has therefore either been secured under one of the mining lease agreements or is controlled by GQM LLC through ownership of the land in fee or where GQM LLC owns or holds patented and unpatented mining claims or millsites directly. The mining lease agreements were entered into from 1986 onwards. Refer to section Property Interests Are In Good Standing below for key information.
Fee land surrounding Section 6 is required for the construction of the ancillary facilities for a mining operation, for the construction of the heap leach pad and for construction of two pads for storing quality waste rock. The area that will be disturbed by the Project is a 912 acre block (369 hectare) within the total area of approximately 1,700 acres (689 hectares) owned, held or controlled by GQM LLC. GQM LLC also owns six residential properties with buildings north of Silver Queen Road.
GQM LLC is continuing to purchase additional land that will secure its land position in the area.
Title Review
The Company’s U.S. legal counsel completed a complete title review in 2014. This title review was done as part of the due diligence required for the Joint Venture Transaction, which closed in September 2014 and no particular title problems were identified.
Record of Survey- Section 6
The California Business & Professions Code includes the Professional Land Surveyors Act, “Article 5. Surveying Practices” and specifically “8762. Records of survey.” Land surveyors must be aware of the requirements set out in Article 5 as these are essential to their surveying practice and govern their responsibilities to their clients and the State. The Company therefore decided to proceed with a Record of Survey and engaged James A. LaPuzza, PLS, MS (“Jim LaPuzza”) in July 2011 for this task.
A set of 14 maps based upon survey work done by Jim LaPuzza on Soledad Mountain between 2007 and 2010, along with supporting information on the history of staking and recording and ownership of mining claims and millsites researched by Sylvia Good, RPL, Landman and legal counsel and staff of Gresham Savage Nolan & Tilden, PC,, San Bernardino, California from the early 1990s onwards, was submitted to the Kern County Department of Engineering, Surveying and Permit Services in August 2010. The maps were checked in meticulous detail by County staff over a period of 10 months. There were also numerous exchanges of information between Jim LaPuzza and staff during this period. County staff gave the maps a “Final Check” in May 2011. The recordable mylars were submitted to County staff in July 2011, formally signed by the County Surveyor and forwarded to the Kern County Assessor - Recorder as a Record of Survey. The Record of Survey was recorded as follows:
Recorded July 20, 2011;
Document No. 211092035 and
Book 0027, Page 66
The basis for GQM LLC’s royalty map is now the Record of Survey and this has superseded all earlier versions of the royalty map.
A copy of this report was sent to all landholders of record on August 1, 2011.
Record of Survey- Section 8
This newest survey in effect became an extension of the Section 6 survey work utilizing the control network already established on the ground and on paper. All equipment, methods and personnel remained the same.
Unlike Section 6 with its masses of overlapping angular lode claims, Section 8, part of Soledad Mountain historically less active with actual mining, possessed a more grid-like appearance with fewer “visible” conflicts than found in Section 6. Complications arose only later with a closer examination of the title documents. The survey proved to be exceptionally complex and time consuming and took three years to complete.
The County approved a total of 14 maps and data sheets and the survey was recorded as Record of Survey No. 3318 in March 2014.
The Record of Survey was recorded as follows:
Recorded March 31, 2014
Document No. 3318
Book 29, Page 30
Royalties
GQM LLC is required to make advance minimum royalty payments under the mining lease agreements. In some instances, GQM LLC will receive a credit for the advance minimum royalty payments when mining ore on particular properties after the start of commercial production. Most of the royalties are of the net smelter return type and are based on a sliding scale, with the percentage amount of the royalty depending upon the grade of ore mined and processed from the particular property to which the royalty relates. Weighted average royalty rates will range from a low of 1.0% to a high of 5.0% depending upon the area being mined and gold and silver prices. The agreements also typically provide for an additional royalty if non-mineral commodities, such as aggregates, are processed and sold.
Property Interests Are In Good Standing
A number of mining lease agreements expired in 2010 and in January 2011. While most of these were later reinstated and extended by subsequent agreement, GQM LLC is in ongoing negotiations with some remaining landholders to extend mining lease agreements.
Further, while GQM LLC is not in default of any current mining lease agreement, GQM LLC is negotiating renewal terms for mining leases that are approaching expiry. Mining leases have expiry dates ranging from 2015 to 2045. All mining leases have an “evergreen” clause that becomes effective once the mine commences production.
Project Background
The Project is located approximately 5 miles (8 km) south of Mojave in Kern County in southern California. See Figure 1, a Project location map above.
Gold mining on Soledad Mountain dates back to the late 19th century. The largest producer in the area was Gold Fields American Development Co. (“Gold Fields”), a subsidiary of Consolidated Gold Fields of South Africa. Gold Fields operated an underground mine and mill on the property from 1935 to 1942, when the mine was forced to close by War Production Board Order L-208. Production after the war was minimal, as costs had increased while the price of gold remained fixed at $35/oz until 1973.
Geology
The Soledad Mountain mineral deposit is hosted in a volcanic sequence of porphyritic rhyolite, quartz latites and bedded pyroclastics that occur on a large dome-shaped feature, called Soledad Mountain, along the margins of a collapsed caldera. Higher-grade precious metals mineralization is associated with steeply dipping, epithermal veins, which occupy faults and fracture zones that cross cut the rock units and generally trend northwest. The veins are contained within siliceous envelopes of lower-grade mineralization that forms the bulk of the mineral resource.
The primary rock types that occur on the Property are porphyritic rhyolite, flow-banded rhyolite, quartz latite, pyroclastics and siliceous vein material. Clay occurs in variable amounts and the rocks contain upwards of 60% silica as SiO2. Porphyritic rhyolite and flow-banded rhyolite were grouped as a single rock type for the metallurgical test work.
Extensive programs of mapping, diamond drilling, reverse-circulation drilling and underground diamond drilling, and channel sampling were carried out on the Property between 1985 and 2011. Company geologists managed these programs. The geological database today includes the crosscut assay data recorded on linens by Gold Fields between 1933 and 1942, as well as crosscut sample data from Rosario Exploration and the Company. The Project database includes these crosscut samples as well as samples from drilling programs completed on the Property by Gold Fields, CoCa Mines, Rosario Exploration, Shell/Billiton, Glamis Gold, and the Company. The database contains a total of 70,863 samples, generated from 381,014 ft (116,133 m) of drilling and sampling of underground crosscuts.
Mineral Resource Estimates
The Company engaged Mine Development Associates (“MDA”) to redo the Project’s geological resource model from first principles and to provide updated mineral resource estimates in 2014.
The work done by MDA in 2014 indicates that vein widths are narrower than previously modeled but that vein continuity is well defined with excellent predictability, both along strike and down-dip.
The modeling and mineral resource estimates were completed in December 2014 under the supervision of Michael M. Gustin, a Qualified Person with respect to mineral resource estimations under NI 43-101.
To complete the mineral resource estimates, the drill data was evaluated statistically, gold and silver mineral domains were interpreted independently on cross sections spaced at 50-ft (15 m) and 100-ft (30 m) intervals that span the extents of the presently defined deposit, and the mineral domains were refined on level plans spaced at 20-ft (6 m) intervals. The final modeled mineral domains were then coded into a 20 ft x 20 ft x 20 ft (6 m x 6 m x 6 m) block model and used to constrain the gold and silver grade estimations.
The mineral resource estimates are summarized in the table below:
2015 Mineral Resource Estimates Provided by MDA (100% Basis)
1.
Mineral resources are inclusive of mineral reserves.
2.
Mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability.
3.
Mineral resources are reported at a 0.004 oz/ton (0.137 g/t) AuEq cutoff in consideration of potential open-pit mining and heap-leach processing.
4.
Gold equivalent grades were calculated as follows: AuEq(oz/ton) = Au(oz/ton) + (Ag(oz/ton)/88, which reflect a long-term Au:Ag price ratio of 55 and a Au:Ag recovery ratio of 1.6.
5.
Mineral resources are reported as partially diluted.
6.
Rounding as required by reporting guidelines may result in apparent discrepancies between tons, grade and contained metal content.
7.
Tonnage and grade measurements are in imperial and metric units. Grades are reported in troy ounces per short ton and in grams per tonne.
8.
The effective date of the mineral resource estimate is December 31, 2014.
Cautionary note to U.S. investors concerning measured, indicated or inferred resources: We advise U.S. investors that while the terms “measured resources”, “indicated resources” and “inferred resources” are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) does not recognize these terms and these terms do not comply with SEC Guide 7 requirements. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the material in these categories will be converted into reserves. It should not be assumed that any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category.
The gold-equivalent relationship is consistent with that used in the previously reported (2012) resource estimates, and is based on a long-term Au:Ag price ratio of 55 and Ag:Au recovery ratio of 0.625.
The mineral resource estimates were prepared in compliance with the disclosure and reporting requirements set forth in the Canadian Securities Administrators’ NI 43-101, Companion Policy 43-101CP, and Form 43-101F1, as well as with the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum’s “CIM Definition Standards - For Mineral Resources and Reserves, Definitions and Guidelines” (“CIM Standards”) adopted by the CIM Council on May 10, 2014.
The Company finds that the updated geological model and block model prepared by MDA allow for high-confidence mine planning. The 2014 mineral resource estimates report slightly higher gold grades after allowing for internal dilution, whereas the 2012 mineral resource estimates reported undiluted grades.
GQM LLC is proceeding with an infill drill program within the first two phases of mining. The goals of the infill drill program are to: (1) extend mineralization both laterally and in depth below the current open pit designs; (2) convert inferred resource estimates to measured and indicated resource estimates; and (3) provide material for bottle roll tests to assess metallurgical performance.
GQM LLC is considering additional work that could be done to increase and upgrade the mineral resource estimates for the Project. Near-term drill programs will focus on the potential to define new resources and reserves proximal to the first two open pits to be mined. In addition, there is excellent potential to add resources that could significantly impact the longer-term reserves, including the Sheeted Vein zone (West open-pit) and the area between the Main open pit and East open pit, as well as extensions of mineralized structures down-dip. This exploratory drilling will be deferred until mining approaches the relevant areas.
Note that mineral resources that are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability.
Mineral Reserve Estimates
Norwest Corporation (“Norwest) completed the feasibility level open pit designs and scheduling for the 2015 updated feasibility study and provided the proven and probable reserve estimates shown in the table below:
2015 Mineral Reserve Estimates Provided By Norwest (100% Basis)
1.
The Qualified Person for the mineral reserve estimates is Sean Ennis, Vice President, Mining, P.Eng., APEGBC Registered Member who is employed by Norwest Corporation.
2.
A gold equivalent cut-off grade of 0.005 oz/ton was used for Quartz Latite and a cut-off grade of 0.006 oz/ton was used for all other rock types. The cut-off grade was varied to reflect differences in estimated metal recoveries for the different rock types mined.
3.
Gold equivalent grades were calculated as follows: AuEq(oz/ton) = Au(oz/ton) + (Ag(oz/ton)/88, which reflects a long-term Au:Ag price ratio of 55 and a Au:Ag recovery ratio of 1.6. Gold-equivalent grades were used for open pit optimizations.
4.
Tonnage and grade measurements are in imperial and metric units. Grades are reported in troy ounces per short ton and in grams per tonne.
Cautionary note to U.S. investors concerning proven or probable mineral reserve estimates: This Form 10K uses the terms “proven reserves” and “probable reserves” in accordance with NI 43-101. We advise U.S. investors that the requirements of NI 43-101 for identification of “reserves” are not the same as those of the SEC, and reserves reported by the Company in compliance with NI 43-101 may not qualify as “reserves” under SEC Guide 7 standards. Accordingly, information concerning mineral deposits set forth herein may not be comparable with information presented by companies using only U.S. standards in their public disclosure.
The mineral reserves estimates are included in the measured and indicated mineral resource estimates set out in the table in the section Mineral Resource Estimates above.
Detailed information on the open pit design and other information is provided in the section Open Pit Design and the sections that follow on all aspects of the open pit operation.
Exploration Potential
Additional geological targets have been identified on the Property. These targets are generally peripheral (east, south and west) to the currently defined mineral resource estimates. In the east, two additional zones of quartz stringer veins have been mapped in the hanging wall of the Karma/Ajax vein system. Toward the south, an extension of the Silver Queen vein system is open and additional vein splits have been mapped on surface. Also, an extension of the Golden Queen vein system appears to be offset by an east-west trending fault. Initial drill results indicate widths of 26 ft (8 m) with good gold and silver grades.
The exploration work to date has focused on known fault/vein structures central to the deposit. The host volcanic rocks associated with mineralization on the Property extend further to the south and have not been fully evaluated. Further, anomalous gold values have also been found in the low volcanic hills that protrude from the valley floor to the northwest of the Property.
The continuity of mineralization at depth remains untested.
Independent Feasibility Study
The Company engaged Kappes, Cassiday & Associates (“KCA”) and Norwest to prepare an updated feasibility study and economic analysis for the Project based upon current information in December 2014.
The base case cash flow analysis is done on a constant United States dollar, after-tax, stand-alone Project basis.
Gold and silver prices used to model the base case cash flows are $1,250.00/oz and $17.00/oz, respectively, and these are the consensus estimates used by a number of analysts. Prices are fixed for the life of the mine.
The Project has an indicated after-tax internal rate of return (“IRR”) on capital employed of 28.3%. The after-tax net present value (“NPV”) is $214 million with a discount rate of 5.0% and the undiscounted, cumulative net cash flow after tax is approximately $342 million. A 5.0% discount rate is reasonable for a project at this stage and is inline with standard industry practices. By comparison, at an 8.0% discount rate, the after-tax NPV is $160 million. The indicated contribution of gold and silver to gross revenues is 88% and 12% respectively at current gold and silver prices with an average total cash cost per ounce of gold produced, net of silver credits, of $518/oz.
The Project generates positive cash flow in the first year of production and reaches cumulative positive cash flow in the fourth year of production. Cash flows remain positive each year through the mine life.
Project After-Tax NPV with Changing Metal Prices
The 2015 updated feasibility study demonstrates robust economics and first quartile cash costs. Capital expenditures to date and the expenditures projected for the remainder of 2015 are in line with the capital cost update provided in March of 2014. Approximately 70% of these remaining capital expenditures are now locked in under fixed price contracts with experienced contractors.
Of note is that only 65% of the resource estimate has been included in the current mine design. Successful infill drill programs and expanding the Approved Project Boundary could significantly increase the mine life.
The NI 43-101 Technical Report is available on the Company’s website at www.goldenqueen.com.
Feasibility Study Capital and Operating Cost Estimates
The 2015 updated feasibility study capital cost estimates are based upon fixed-price contracts for construction of all the key facilities for the Project and detailed cost estimates prepared for ongoing construction based upon actual experience with costs incurred since the start of construction in July 2013. Pre-production capital costs of approximately $144 million are in-line with the capital costs update provided in March 2014 and include $99.3 million in pre-production capital costs, $15.0 million contingency, $10.5 million in working capital and financial assurance cost estimate and $19.2 million for the mobile mining equipment. These estimates also included all sales taxes. The sustaining capital was estimated to be a further $25.6 million over the life of the Project. The Company also expects GQM LLC to spend a further $10.9 million on additional mobile mining equipment starting in Year 2 of production. Most of the sustaining capital would be required for the construction of heap leach pads and for mining equipment replacement.
Detailed operating costs estimates were prepared with information provided by vendors of services and supplies such as diesel fuel and explosives, reagents such as cement and sodium-cyanide and operating supplies and spare parts for both the major mining equipment and support equipment and equipment in the various processing facilities. The operating cost estimates were reviewed by KCA and Norwest and confirmed as being reasonable.
Open Pit Design
Norwest did detailed open pit designs between 2008, 2010, 2012 and again in 2014 as part of the 2015 updated feasibility study. These detailed mine designs were adapted from the original 2007 designs to reduce waste to ore mining ratios, enhance opportunities for backfill placement and develop pit phasing and access which would lower the costs associated with backfilling.
The 3D block model prepared by MDA in 2014 was used for development and evaluation of the open pit shells for the Project. The MineSight 3D (Mintec©) software package was used for the open pit optimization and design process.
Gold and silver prices ranging from $500.00 per oz and $5.00 per oz respectively to $1,400.00 per oz and $13.00 per oz respectively were used for the open pit optimization. The base case prices for gold and silver prices of $1,200.00 per oz and $12.00 per oz respectively were used for the feasibility level mine design.
The average waste rock to ore mining ratio was reduced from 2.12:1.0 in 2008 to 1.85:1.0 in 2011 to 1.49:1.0 in 2012 and has now increased to 3.41:1.0 in 2015.
Dilution and Ore Loss
Norwest allowed for dilution and ore loss in determining the mineral reserve estimates.
The dilution quantity estimates were derived from a detailed review of the ore zones and adjacent blocks in discussion and agreement with MDA. Based on the ore zone configuration and the equipment selected for mining, an average dilution of 2 ft (0.6 m) per contact was assumed. In addition, isolated blocks of ore were assumed to be mined as waste (ore loss) and isolated blocks of waste assumed to be mined as ore (dilution).
The dilution grade was determined by evaluating the average grades in the blocks adjacent to the ore zones. An average dilution of 6.8% (approximately 3.4 million tons or 3.1 million tonnes) at a gold grade of 0.003oz/ton (0.1 g/t), and a silver grade of 0.14oz/ton (4.8 g/t) was allowed for. No additional ore loss is assumed beyond what is inherent in the model, assuming very good grade control once the mine is in production and good mining practices.
Open Pit Slope Design
An independent consulting engineer did open pit slope stability analyses in 1995 and these included analyses with the ultimate slopes subjected to a maximum, credible earthquake acceleration of 0.297g. The consulting engineer recommended an ultimate, inter-ramp slope angle of 55o with an indication that this angle could be safely increased to 63.4 o. The Company drilled five diamond drill holes in 1997 specifically to obtain rock strength parameters for further slope stability analyses under the guidance of an independent consulting engineer. The independent consulting engineer did further slope stability analyses and confirmed the ultimate slope angle of 55o. Norwest used an inter-ramp slope angle of 55o for slopes up to 500 ft (152 m) in height for the mine design done in 2014. Pit slopes higher than 500 ft (152 m) were designed for an overall slope of 45o by incorporating step-outs and increased catch bench widths. Slope angles in zones of adverse structure or lower quality rock mass associated with the central portion of the West Pit were designed with a lower overall slope of 40o for this area only.
Independent consulting engineers based in Denver did waste rock heap stability analyses in 1996 and again in 1998 and these were confirmed by Norwest in 2000, in 2010 and again for the 2015 updated feasibility study. These analyses concluded that backfilled waste rock and the down-slope portion of the East Waste Rock Storage pad would be stable under both static and seismic loading conditions, both during operations and after closure and reclamation. Some sloughing of the faces of backfilled waste rock or the waste rock pad could occur during significant seismic events in the area.
GQM LLC will confirm subsurface conditions in the area now being used for waste rock storage west of Soledad Mountain in 2015. GQM LLC will also confirm the stability of the waste rock heap in this area in 2015.
Waste Rock Management
Disposal of waste rock will be largely in mined-out phases of the open pits and one external waste rock pad will be constructed to the east of Soledad Mountain, the East Waste Rock Storage pad, to provide a readily accessible source of quality waste rock and an area suitable for the aggregate operation. An area located west of Soledad Mountain, formerly reserved as the Phase 2 heap leach pad, is now also being used as a second waste rock storage area.
Waste rock will be disposed of at an angle of repose of 37o (1.3:1.0) with a loose density of 1.50 ton/yd3 (1.96 t/m3) (that represents a 30% net swell after allowing for partial compaction). Waste rock will be re-sloped to 27o (2.0:1.0) as part of closure and closing reclamation. The toes of the re-sloped fills will remain within the Approved Project Boundary. There is no groundwater in the areas where waste rock will be disposed of and this will therefore not have an impact on the stability of either of the waste rock heaps.
Open Pit Operation
Standard, open pit mining methods will be used to mine ore and waste rock. Mining operations will include drilling, blasting, loading, hauling and support equipment and GQM LLC will do the mining. All open pit mining will occur in dry conditions above the water table.
The total quantity of ore to be mined, crushed and screened and stacked on the heap leach pads is estimated to be 51 million tons (46.4 million tonnes). Total waste rock to be mined is estimated to be 174 million tons (158 million tonnes).
The production schedule developed by Norwest for the Project is based on increasing ore output to full production levels at an achievable rate with a mining sequence that allows for effective backfilling of the mined-out phases of the open pits.
Ore production increases from approximately 2.7 million tons (2.5 million tonnes) during the first full year of production to the maximum production level of approximately 5.1 million tons (4.5 million tonnes) in Years 3 and 4. The production does not reach maximum capacity from Year 5 onwards and varies from a low of 4.1 million tons (3.7 million tonnes) to a high of 4.9 million tons (4.5 million tonnes). Although ore production does not reach maximum capacity in some years, mining of higher grade ore in these periods with an increase in contained gold and silver ounces does somewhat offset the effect of the lower ore production.
The average gold produced over years 2 to 11 is approximately 74,000 oz per year with a maximum of 99,000 oz in Year 8 of production. The average silver produced is approximately 781,000 oz per year over this same period, with a maximum of 1.27 million oz of silver in Year 4 of production.
Waste rock mining ranges from a low of approximately 8 million tons (7.3 million tonnes) in Year 1 to a high of approximately 20 million tons (18.2 million tonnes) in Years 5 and 6. The variation in waste rock mining rates is driven by a combination of factors. The current mine production schedule seeks to take advantage of the available ore processing capacity limit of approximately 5.1 million tons (4.7 million tonnes) per year especially during the initial five years of the Project. This results in periods of very high waste production as zones with high mining ratios, i.e. waste tons:ore tons, must be mined in order to expose sufficient ore. In addition, the requirement to ensure the most efficient disposal of waste rock in mined-out phases of the open pits combined with the steep topography leads to truck haulage distances that can vary significantly from quarter to quarter.
The initial mine life is projected to be 12 years. Note that aggregate sales over a period of thirty years are important for the Project as this will ensure that GQM LLC can meet its closure and closing reclamation requirements.
Ore-from-waste separation will require special attention to ensure that overall grade projections are met.
Underground mine openings will be encountered from time-to-time during open pit mining and this will be allowed for in the detailed mine planning.
Norwest reviewed and confirmed operating cost estimates for the open pit operation for the 2015 updated feasibility study.
Mining Equipment
The configuration and phasing of the open pits requires that the primary loading equipment be mobile and flexible in terms of loading conditions. In addition, the equipment needs to have the capability to mine selectively in order to limit ore loss and dilution while still meeting production targets. With these considerations in mind, Norwest judged that front-end loaders for flexibility combined with a hydraulic excavator in backhoe configuration for increased selectivity and production would best meet the Project requirements. Norwest also confirmed that haulage trucks with a capacity of 100 tons (91 tonnes) would be suitable for the Project.
A fleet study was carried out by Komatsu America Corporation and completed on December 16, 2014. This study developed equipment productivity estimates for the primary mining fleet based on anticipated local mining conditions.
A smaller development is required for the initial open pit development in 2015. Once the primary mining equipment is on site, the main role for the development fleet is the pioneering of access roads, mining smaller upper benches as each new mining phase is developed, and providing additional selective mining capacity in localized ore zones.
Support equipment such as a grader and a water wagon were purchased and received in 2014. Additional mining equipment was received subsequent to December 31, 2014. See Subsequent Events below for further details.
The mining equipment required for the Project over the life of the mine is shown in the table below:
GQM LLC has decided to purchase Komatsu equipment and the equipment is being delivered and will be supported by Road Machinery LLC, a Komatsu dealer in California.
Blasting and Explosives
The new security requirements that were introduced to combat the threat of terrorist activities in the United States make contract blasting the preferred option and contract blasting will be used.
There are several suppliers in the region capable of meeting Project requirements. A local supplier based in Mojave provides service to a number of mines and quarries in the area and has a bulk storage facility for ammonium nitrate prill in Mojave. The local supplier also receives prill by rail and this is a key consideration in dealing with the local supplier as prill by rail is more energy efficient than moving the same quantity of prill by truck on the highway.
Based on the available groundwater data, blastholes are expected to be dry through the life of the mine and only ANFO will be used as a blasting agent. A powder factor of 0.36 lb/ton or 0.71 lb/yd3 (0.18 kg/t or 0.42 kg/m3) was used to estimate explosives consumption for the Project.
Site Drainage
An independent consulting engineering firm based in Denver prepared a number of site drainage plans as these apply to the open pit operation. The underlying engineering assumptions meet the requirements of the California State Water Resources Control Board and the Kern County Engineering, Surveying & Permit Services Department.
A Stage I, Surface Water, Sediment and Erosion Control Plan has been prepared for construction and early mining phases of the Project.
The site drainage plan can quickly be revised as open pit designs change and this will include detailed designs for sediment ponds and drainage channels as required.
Closure and Closing Reclamation
The current mine plan assumes approximately 30 million short tons (27 million tonnes) of waste rock will be sold as aggregate and removed from site over a period of thirty years and prior to closure and closing reclamation. This mine plan also assumes that a portion of the leached and rinsed residues on the heap leach pad is either processed and sold as aggregate and removed from site, or else GQM LLC is able to obtain a variation of an approval to allow a larger portion of the leached and rinsed residues to remain in place on the Phase 1 heap leach pad. If GQM LLC cannot perform reclamation procedures according to these assumptions, GQM LLC must re-handle a significant quantity of the residues either as backfill to the open pits or spread the residues on the property to meet closure and closing reclamation requirements, or a combination of both. The necessity of handling a portion of the residues as part of a closure and reclamation plan will affect the overall ore tonnage that can be mined, as the removal of waste rock and possibly a portion of the rinsed and leached residues is a component of the current mining and backfilling plan.
Mineralogy, Process Development and Flow Sheet
Studies show that gold is present as native gold and electrum with particles ranging in size from less than 10 micron to greater than 150 micron with the silver content of the electrum as high as 25%. Silver is also present as the mineral acanthite (Ag2S) with some native silver, pyrargyrite (3Ag2S.Sb2S3) and polybasite (9Ag2S.Sb2S3). Pyrite (FeS2), galena (PbS) and chalcopyrite (CuFeS2) are present in minor amounts with no indicated acid-generating potential. Multi-element x-ray fluorescence analyses show only trace quantities of mercury.
Test work done on Soledad Mountain ores from 1988 to 2007 shows that these ores are readily amenable to heap leaching provided the ore is crushed and/or ground to relatively small sizes. A range of parameters required to design a heap leach operation, such as agglomerate strength, percolation rates under load and the consumption of cyanide and other reagents, were determined.
In the 1990s, it was proposed to crush and screen ore to 100% - 8mesh (2.37 mm) and a four-stage crushing and screening plant using vertical shaft impact crushers in the third and fourth crushing was designed. However, the Company did a review that provided new insights into the historical test results in 2002. An alternative flow sheet was developed for the Project in late 2002, which considered three-stage crushing and screening plant with an HPGR in the third crushing stage, and is reflected in the current design.
Confirmation HPGR tests were required to provide the following:
The design parameters to both size the equipment and determine the motor sizes for the HPGR;
The target particle size distributions for the commercial operation; and
Information to finalize the flow sheet, e.g. the need to recycle edge material.
Samples of rhyolite ore and quartz latite ore were collected for the HPGR tests in July 2003 and in March 2004 respectively. The samples were crushed to 100% passing 1.3 inch (32 mm) and 1.4 inch (35 mm) respectively by McClelland Laboratories, Inc. (“MLI”), an independent metallurgical laboratory located in Sparks, Nevada. The samples were shipped by airfreight to the test facilities of two HPGR manufacturers in Germany where the actual HPGR tests were done. The crushed samples were returned to the MLI laboratory in Nevada for confirmation leach test work. The following conclusions were drawn based upon the results of bottle roll and column leach tests:
Recoveries are higher with longer leach times and this confirms the historical findings;
Recoveries increase with a finer crushed product and this effect is especially pronounced for silver; and
Recoveries for the HPGR products are consistently higher and extraction rates faster than those obtained from conventional crusher products - the evidence is that this is due to penetration of leach solution into micro-cracks that are created by the high specific press force applied to the ore particles in the HPGR.
The detailed analysis of the leached residues or tails indicated that tests should be done on a high-grade and a low-grade sample to obtain data for the complete range of expected head grades. Two rhyolite samples were taken for this test work in April 2006. The total weight of the two samples was approximately 4,600 lb (2,100 kg). The samples were shipped by truck to MLI for first-stage crushing and then by airfreight to a HPGR manufacturers’ test facility in Germany where the HPGR tests were done. The samples were returned to MLI and bottle roll tests and column leach tests were started in July and completed in December 2006. Final test results were received and combined with the results from earlier tests for a detailed recovery analysis.
The average life of mine recoveries used in the 2015 updated feasibility study were 82.1% for gold and 50.0% for silver.
Tests were done on leached residues from two of the column leach tests to determine the percolation rates under load and the results of the tests were used to design the heap and confirm heap height for the heap leach operation.
The test work shows that the HPGR is expected to have distinct advantages over conventional crushing and screening to size and prepare particles for heap leaching in this particular application. The indicated benefits of using the HPGR will be:
Higher recoveries in the heap leach operation due to micro-cracks in the ore particles;
Faster gold and silver extraction rates;
Stronger agglomerates due to a more favourable overall particle size distribution and this will also impact the percolation rates of solution through the heap;
Substantially lower capital costs than a conventional crushing - screening plant;
Manageable dust control with fewer transfer points;
Lower energy consumption and thus lower operating costs; and
Exceptional circuit flexibility that will readily permit future upgrades such as a finer HPGR feed size or the recycle of edge product.
The HPGR consists basically of two counter-rotating rolls - one a fixed roll and the other a ‘floating’ roll. The ‘floating’ roll is mounted on and can move freely on two slides and the grinding forces are applied to the ‘floating’ roll by hydraulic rams. Ore is choke-fed to the gap between the rolls and comminution takes place by inter-particle crushing in the bed of particles. The gap between the rolls is determined by the nip-in characteristics of the feed and the total grinding force applied, which in turn depends upon pressures in the hydraulic system. Each roll is driven by an electric motor via a planetary gear reducer. The total grinding force can range from 169k lbf to 4500k lbf (750 kN to 20,000 kN) and pressures in the gap can range from approximately 7,000 lb/in2 (50 MPa) to 36,000 lb/in2 (250 MPa). The unconfined compressive strengths of Soledad Mountain ores range from 320 lb/in2 to 17,200 lb/in2 (2.2 MPa to 118.9 MPa) by comparison.
An independent consulting engineering firm did the design of the crushing-screening plant including the HPGR in 2006. This design was revised in 2008, further updated in 2011 and updated again in 2014. The crushing-screening plant has been designed to process 5,119,000 tons (4,654,000 tonnes) of ore per year.
Capital and operating cost estimates for the crushing-screening plant were brought current by Project management and confirmed by KCA for the updated feasibility study in 2015.
Merrill-Crowe Plant
Gold and silver are typically recovered in a heap leach operation by dissolution in a dilute sodium-cyanide solution and then by precipitation with zinc or adsorption on activated carbon. The zinc precipitation process, referred to as the Merrill-Crowe process after its developers, is used to recover gold and silver when the silver to gold ratio in solution is greater than 10:1. The silver to gold ratio is expected to average 15:1 for the Project and a Merrill-Crowe precipitation plant will therefore be required. In the Merrill-Crowe process, zinc dust is metered into the deaerated, pregnant solution and gold and silver are precipitated as micron-sized, metallic particles. The precipitate is dried, mixed with selected fluxes and melted in an induction furnace. The molten mix of gold and silver, i.e. the doré, is poured into moulds. The doré is cooled, cleaned and shipped to a commercial refinery where gold and silver bullion are produced for final sale.
The Merrill-Crowe process is highly efficient and recoveries in a commercial plant typically range upwards of 98%.
Independent consulting engineers did detailed designs and prepared capital cost estimates for the Merrill-Crowe plant and this includes the refinery for the 2015 updated feasibility study.
Operating cost estimates for the Merrill-Crowe plant were brought current by Project management and confirmed by independent consulting engineers for the updated 2015 feasibility study.
Construction of the Merrill-Crowe plant is under way.
Assay Laboratory
The assay laboratory has been designed to cope with the planned workload including the required sample preparation and solid and solution analyses for gold and silver as well as analyses required to manage the heap leach operation. Environmental control analyses will also be performed.
The laboratory has been sized to handle from 50 to 200 solid and from 10 to 50 solution samples per day depending upon requirements.
The design and capital cost estimates for the laboratory were updated over a period of four months in 2014. The laboratory includes areas for sample preparation, fire assays and related wet chemistry and metallurgical test work such as bottle roll tests and column leach tests.
Extensive provision has been made for dust control. All lead waste and dust containing heavy metals will be shipped to a designated disposal site. Rock dust and rejects from sample preparation will be returned to the process. Scrubbers will be fitted to fume hoods.
The laboratory has been designed to meet all State and Federal codes.
The laboratory building and building services are being constructed on a turn-key basis by an independent contractor based in Lancaster and the target for completion is March 2015.
Quotes are currently being obtained for the equipment for the laboratory and equipping the laboratory will proceed as soon as construction of the building has been completed.
The Heap Leach Pad and the Heap
A dilute, sodium-cyanide solution will be used to dissolve gold and silver in the heap leach operation. Extensive procedures will be put in place to protect workers and the environment. The cyanide will be received in dissolved form by truck directly from the manufacturer and will be pumped to a storage tank on site and then to the process.
An independent consulting engineering firm is responsible for the design of the heap leach facility, which has been designed for zero discharge. The Phase 1 heap leach pad, will be located on the northern side of Soledad Mountain. This will be a single-use, dedicated pad. An area located on the western side of Soledad Mountain, formerly reserved as the Phase 2 pad, is now being used as a waste rock storage area.
The following are the design criteria for the Phase 1 heap leach pad:
The pad has been designed as a permanent, single-use pad;
Average density of a density of 100 lb/ft3(1.6 t/m3) is used for determining the capacity of the pad;
Maximum heap height is 230 ft (70 m);
Lift height is 33 ft (10 m);
The angle of repose of the agglomerated ore is 2.0H:1.0V;
Slopes are 2.5H:1.0V on the north and west sides and 2.0H:1.0V on the south and east side of the heap;
Nominal capacity of the Phase 1 pad is 51 million tons (46 million tonnes) and
The Phase 1 heap leach pad will be constructed in four stages.
The Phase 1 heap leach pad will be lined with a composite liner consisting of a compacted soil liner and a geomembrane. The geomembrane will in turn be covered and protected by 18 inches (45 cm) of a crushed liner protection fill that will act as a drainage layer. A network of perforated pipes will be installed in the liner protection fill. Solution will drain by gravity to a pump box and will be pumped to the Merrill-Crowe plant where gold and silver will be extracted from the pregnant solution. The barren solution will be returned to the heap and drip emitters will be used on the heap to limit evaporation losses. Drip emitters will be covered. An overflow pond is located east and downstream of the pump box.
Detailed site investigations were done in the area where the Phase 1 heap leach pad will be constructed in 2004 and again in 2006. The independent consulting engineering firm completed the design of the Phase 1 pad for construction in 2014.
The design of the heap leach pad meets all applicable regulatory requirements. Note that the heap must be reclaimed to approximately 25 ft (7.6 m) above original contours to meet State of California reclamation requirements.
An earthmoving contractor with experience in constructing heap leach pads prepared the capital cost estimates for the construction of the Phase 1, Stage 1 portion of the pad for the 2015 updated feasibility study. Construction of the Phase 1, Stage 1 pad is currently under way.
An equipment manufacturer did the heap leach stacking study for the conveying and stacking system and prepared capital cost estimates for the 2015 updated feasibility study. The equipment manufacturer received a contract for the fabrication of the conveying and stacking system in fabrication of the equipment is currently under way.
Services
The Project is located approximately 5 miles (8 km) south of Mojave in southern California. The metropolitan areas of Rosamond and Lancaster lie from 9 miles (14 km) to 20 miles (32 km) to the south. Access to site is from State Route 14 and Silver Queen Road, an existing paved County road. Mojave is a railroad hub for the Burlington Northern/Santa Fe and Union Pacific/Southern Pacific railroad lines. Services such as a hospital, ambulance, fire-protection, garbage and hazardous waste disposal, schools, motels and housing, shopping, airport and recreation are available in Mojave and its surroundings.
Water Supply
A water supply will be required for the operation and it is expected that both ground water and water supplied by the Antelope Valley - East Kern Water Agency will be available for the Project.
A detailed study of the site hydrogeology was completed in 2006 to confirm that groundwater would be a dependable source of water for the Project. As many as 35 wells have been drilled in the greater Project area in the past. Records for some of these wells plus step rate test data from production well PW-1 drilled by the Company indicate that, initially, two production wells can provide the maximum estimated water requirement of 650 gal/min (147.6 m3/h). Production well PW-1 is located approximately 3,000 ft (1 km) north of the Project. A second production well, PW-2, was drilled approximately 1,000 ft (300 m) north of well PW-1 and cased and tested and a third production well, PW-3, was drilled in an area west of the Project in November 2008 and development of the well has also been completed. Neither PW-2 nor PW-3 had yields high enough to add to the water required on a continuous basis for the Project.
The Company has identified an area to the west of PW-1 that has historically had a number of production wells that have yielded upwards of 600 gal/min (136.2 m3/h). GQM LLC plans to drill a production well (PW-4) in this area in 2015 to ensure that an adequate supply of groundwater is confirmed to support the Project.
Water samples taken from four characterization wells on site indicate that groundwater can be used in the heap leach process without pre-treatment.
An independent consulting engineering firm did the design for the water supply and the process water and firewater distribution systems and prepared capital and operating cost estimates for the 2012 feasibility study. The design for the system has now been redone by an independent consulting engineering firm based in Bakersfield.
The Company filed an application for a water service connection with Antelope Valley - East Kern Water Agency (“AVEK”) in February 2008 to provide a backup water supply. This was mandated as one of the conditions of approval in the Conditional Use Permits that were issued in 2010.
Project management met with AVEK in Mojave in August 2014 to discuss details of an interconnection of the two systems. AVEK is ready to provide water for the Project, and could most likely provide the full requirement. AVEK submitted a proposal for detailed engineering and for preparation of contract documents in September 2014. GQM LLC approved the cost estimate and this engineering remains to be completed.
Independent consulting engineers based in Bakersfield also designed a pipeline and pump station to pump water from four AVEK water storage tanks to site. The cost of this project has been included in the Project capital cost estimates.
Water supply and water storage - the Phase 1 project has been completed and the first production well (PW-1) is now connected to site. Phases 2, 3 and 4 are underway and completion is expected in May 2015. GQM LLC also expects to drill an additional production well (PW-4) in the second quarter of 2015 and complete the connection in August 2015.
GQM LLC is evaluating the use of recycled water or Title 22 water for the Project with the Rosamond Community Services District. A suitable route for a pipeline is available and this option will be pursued once the mine is in production. The use of Title 22 water would be an environmental plus for the Project. This supply will be of interest only once the Project is running smoothly with a positive cash flow and an assured long life.
Power Supply
The regional utility, Southern California Edison (“SCE”), will supply power.
A main power line with three sets of conductors runs along the eastern property boundary. The top two sets of conductors carry 66 kV while the bottom set of conductors carries 12,460 V and these are the common primary voltages in SCE territory.
SCE indicates that the power factor is an absolutely critical item in SCE territory. SCE requires a minimum operating power factor of 0.95 and a load-sensitive capacitor bank will be installed to achieve this. SCE may also limit the number of starts permitted for the major motors per day.
GQM LLC will install and own the utility tie sub-station. The incoming voltage of 12,460 V will be the mine distribution voltage. This decision was supported by a Method of Service study done by SCE and the Company in 2012. Overhead transmission lines will distribute power from the utility tie sub-station to areas where power will be required and this construction is currently under way.
A diesel-powered generator will provide standby power and this will be set beside the Merrill-Crowe plant. Power will be available to operate the Merrill-Crowe plant and solution distribution systems in case of a SCE power failure.
Project management prepared a detailed motor list and estimated the power consumption for the Project. SCE provided a rate for power of $0.135/kWh for the 2015 updated feasibility study. The rate structure is complex and a mix of consumption and demand charges applies to peak, mid-peak and off-peak periods.
An independent consulting engineering firm and contractor based in Bakersfield prepared a detailed design for the site power distribution system and provided a capital cost estimate in 2014. The firm was awarded a contract for the construction of the site power distribution system in 2014 and this project is now under way.
Workshop-Warehouse and Fuel Storage
Construction of the service facilities required for a mining operation such as a workshop and warehouse and diesel fuel and gasoline storage was completed in 2014.
Project Management and Operating Manpower
A management team has assembled in Mojave to manage the Project. Manpower is expected to average 30 salaried and the number of hourly-paid workers is expected to range from 138 to over 172 depending upon the ore and waste mining rates once the mine is in full production. GQM LLC is committed to hiring locally or from the surrounding towns.
Construction manpower is expected to peak at 200 with an estimated 142 man-years required for construction.
Aggregate
It is expected that a by-product aggregate and construction materials business can be developed once the heap leach operation is in full production, based on the location of the Project in southern California with close proximity to major highways and railway lines. The source of raw materials will be quality waste rock specifically stockpiled for this purpose. The waste rock can be classified into a range of products such as riprap, crushed stone and sand with little further processing. Test work done in the 1990s confirmed the suitability of waste rock as aggregate and construction material. The production and sale of aggregate is expected to commence early in the mine life and continue for up to thirty years or until the stockpile of quality waste rock has been exhausted. GQM LLC also plans to process and sell leached and rinsed residues from the heap leach operation as aggregate or for other uses to local and regional markets.
No contributions from the sale of aggregate have been included in the 2015 updated feasibility study cash flow projections. However, aggregate sales over a period of thirty years are important for the Project as it will permit GQM LLC to meet its closure and reclamation requirements.
Environmental Issues, Approvals and Permits
Introduction
The Project has received three key permits that allow GQM LLC to construct the facilities and begin mining and processing operations.
These are:
a.
Conditional Use Permits issued by Kern County (see CEQA/NEPA heading below);
b.
Authorities to Construct permits issued by the Eastern Kern Air Pollution Control District (see Authority to Construct & Permit to Operate heading below; and
c.
Waste Discharge Requirements issued by the Lahontan Regional Water Quality Control Board (see Water Quality heading below.
The environmental issues and the efforts made to secure the three key permits are described in detail under the subheadings CEQA/NEPA, Authority to Construct & Permit to Operate, and Water Quality.
General
The area surrounding Mojave is typical of the western Mojave Desert. The immediate vicinity of the Project is sparsely populated with considerable historical and more recent mining activity. The Standard Hill, Tropico and Cactus mines are located within a radius of 7.5 miles (12km) of the Property.
The Project and the immediate area surrounding the Project or a total of approximately 9,600 acres (3,887 hectares) are included in the Specific Plan (the “Plan”) for Soledad Mountain - Elephant Butte & Vicinity - south of Mojave. This Plan was prepared in March 1973 and adopted by the Kern County Board of Supervisors as Resolution 73-485 on June 18, 1973. Gold and silver mining operations are recognized in the Plan as important land uses and the protection of mineral deposits, potentially of commercial value, is included in the Plan through restriction of incompatible land uses. The Project as presently defined and permitted is consistent with the Plan.
An independent consulting engineering firm reviewed the major approvals and permits that were issued for the Project in the late 1990s and the current regulatory environment in California in 2005. Additional work was indicated due to the time that had passed since these permits were first issued and changes that had been made in the Project. There have also been changes in regulations imposed by two levels of government in California. No significant environmental issues were however identified in the review and furthermore, the footprint of the Project as presently defined has been reduced in both a physical and an environmental sense.
Environmental issues and the status of approvals and permits are summarized in the following sections.
CEQA/NEPA
The Project is subject to the California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) and the National Environmental Policy Act (“NEPA”), each of which requires written analysis of proposed mining activities and their effect on the physical, biological, social and economic resources of the area. This analysis is known under CEQA as an environmental impact report (“EIR”), and under NEPA as an environmental impact statement (“EIS”).
The environmental setting of the Project was documented in a number of baseline studies prepared between 1990 and 1997. The Kern County Board of Supervisors unanimously approved two Conditional Use Permits (“CUP”) for the Project in September 1997 (i.e. CUP Case No. 41, Map No. 213 and CUP Case No. 22, Map No. 214). The Bureau of Land Management subsequently issued its Record of Decision approving the Plan of Operations under NEPA in November 1997.
The State of California introduced backfilling requirements for open pit, metal mines in December 2002. The Company contended that these regulations did not apply to the Project under a grandfathering provision included in the regulation. The Company, therefore, pursued both a favourable interpretation under the regulation and subsequently an amendment of the regulation with the State Mining and Geology Board (the “Board”) in 2006. These efforts were supported by Kern County officials. Both approaches were rejected by the Board and the decision was duly recorded by the Board in January 2007.
The Company completed an Application for a revised Surface Mining and Reclamation Plan, which was submitted to the Kern County Planning & Community Development Department (the “Planning Department”) in April 2007. The Planning Department completed its review of the Application and deemed the Application complete in July 2007. The Planning Department noted that changes proposed for the Project constituted new information that required evaluation of potential impacts and mitigation in a supplemental EIR (“SEIR”). The SEIR was distributed by the Planning Department, as lead agency under the provisions of CEQA, to approximately 430 recipients and notification of release to 985 recipients on January 11, 2010. The Kern County Planning Commission (the “Commission”) formally considered the Project on April 8, 2010. At the meeting, the Commission, consisting of a panel of three commissioners, unanimously approved the Project. The Commission certified the SEIR and adopted a Mitigation Measures Monitoring Program and a set of Conditions of Approval for the Project. The Mitigation Measures Monitoring Program and Conditions of Approval for the Project were amended by Commission Resolution No. 171-10 adopted on October 28, 2010.
Under Condition 107 of the Conditional Use Permits, the Company was required to submit, prior to the commencement of mining, additional information relating to closure and closing reclamation. The Company submitted the required information to the Planning Department on November 28, 2011 and on June 8, 2012. In accordance with the Surface Mining and Reclamation Act of 1975, the Planning Department consulted the OMR. The OMR confirmed in a letter to the Planning Department dated June 29 that the additional information provided by the Company adequately demonstrated compliance with Condition 107.
The Companyannounced that the Planning Department had approved the additional information submitted by the Company in regards to Condition 107 of the Conditional Use Permits for the Project in a news release dated July 12, 2012 and the Project is now fully permitted.
The Planning Department granted an extension of time of one year to April 21, 2015 to announce the start of mining on the Property at a meeting held in the offices of the Planning Department on November 7, 2013. GQM LLC has now requested a further extension of time of two years to April 21, 2017 as suggested by the Kern County Planning & Community Development Department.
Air Quality
Background Information
The Project lies within the Southeast Desert Air Basin (the “Air Basin”), which falls under the jurisdiction of the Eastern Kern Air Pollution Control District (“EKAPCD”). EKAPCD is charged to regulate sources of air pollution within the basin, pursuant to authority granted under the federal Clean Air Act.
The Air Basin is designated as unclassified for PM10 emissions (that portion of the total suspended particulates less than 10 microns in size) and as a non-attainment area for ozone. The typically windy conditions and very dry nature of the area are responsible for high background PM10 levels recorded at several nearby meteorological monitoring stations.
Fugitive dust from a mining operation on the Property, combined with background dust, may result in unacceptable levels of PM10 emissions in the surrounding areas, especially downwind, and this may present the greatest potential environmental issue for the Project. A PM10 level of 44 micrograms per cubic meter was projected by computer modeling for an annual mining rate of 30 million tons (27 million tonnes) in 1996. This level is below the California attainment standard of 50 micrograms per cubic meter and the Federal standard of 150 micrograms per cubic meter.
However, the Company believes that it will achieve compliance with applicable standards by a greater margin, as the modeling methodology assumes worst-case conditions, which are considered unlikely to be encountered in the actual operation based on the planned use of commonly accepted dust control techniques in all phases of the operation.
The Planning Department requested that the Air Quality Assessment and Health Risk Assessment for the Project be redone in February 2009 to provide current information for the SEIR. This study was completed and in the hands of the Planning Department and EKAPCD on July 21, 2009.
EKAPCD transferred an Emission Reduction Credit Certificate from Cactus Gold Mines Company to the Project in February 1999 and this Emission Reduction Credit Certificate remains valid.
Authority to Construct and Permit to Operate
The Company had obtained seven Authority to Construct permits dated March 16, 2002. These permits expired on March 16, 2004 and were not renewed due to changes anticipated in the Project.
Ten applications for Authority to Construct permits were submitted to the EKAPCD in February 2011. The EKAPCD confirmed that the information required to support the applications was complete. The draft Authority to Construct (“ATC”) permits were received in September 2011. The Company’s consulting engineers and legal counsel completed their review of the draft ATC permits in January 2012. The ATC permits were issued by EKAPCD on February 8, 2012 and were initially valid for two years. The ATC permits were extended by two years from February 8, 2014 to February 7, 2016. The ATC permits will be converted to a Permit to Operate after construction has been completed and subject to inspection by EKAPCD.
Meteorological Monitoring Station
The Company was required to install both upwind and downwind meteorological monitoring stations before the start of production and decided to proceed with the upwind monitoring station in May 2006 to add to the background database. The station was designed by an independent consulting engineering firm and commissioned in September 2006. The EKAPCD approved the design of the station in October 2006. Data is being recorded on a continuous basis and quarterly reports are being issued to the EKAPCD.
The downwind meteorological monitoring station was constructed in 2014 and is now in operation.
Water Quality
The Project is located in the northern portion of the Antelope Valley Groundwater Basin. The mean recorded annual rainfall in the surrounding area is approximately 6.14 in (156 mm). Typical patterns of precipitation are winter rains and summer thunderstorms and these tend to be short-lived and of high intensity. The site is dominated by Soledad Mountain and surface drainage patterns in the area are largely influenced by local topography. This varies from steep, rugged hillsides at the upper elevations to a gently sloping desert floor around the toe of Soledad Mountain. Runoff on the northern side of Soledad Mountain is via a series of gullies or channels, which direct surface flows to the north, northeast and northwest and eventually to the east to the Gloster and Chaffee Hydrologic Areas of the Antelope Hydrologic Unit.
There are no springs or intermittent streams in the immediate area. The closest intermittent stream is approximately 3 miles (5 km) to the west. Evaporation rates are high. Groundwater is typically found at depths of 180ft to 200ft (55 m to 60 m) in the area north of the Project.
The Lahontan Regional Water Quality Control Board (“Regional Board”) is responsible for ensuring compliance with the federal Clean Water Act and California’s Porter-Cologne Water Quality Act. The Company submitted a Report of Waste Discharge (“ROWD”), prepared by a company based in Bakersfield to the Regional Board in June 1997. The Regional Board adopted Board Order No. 6-98-9 in March 1998 at a meeting held in Lancaster and this set the Waste Discharge Requirements for the Project.
Revised Report of Waste Discharge
The ROWD submitted in 1997 included a design for the heap leach facility done before and in 1997. The Company and its consulting engineers prepared an engineering review that set out significant differences between the layout and designs prepared for the heap leach facility in 1997 and in 2005 and made a presentation to the Regional Board in Victorville in May 2006. The Regional Board requested that the Company submit a revised ROWD to reflect these changes. The Company and its consulting engineers prepared and submitted a revised ROWD to the Regional Board in March 2007.
The Regional Board completed its assessment of the revised ROWD and prepared draft Waste Discharge Requirements (“WDRs”) for the Project. The Regional Board waited for confirmation from the Planning Department that the SEIR had been certified before adopting a revised Board Order setting WDRs for the Project.
The Regional Board unanimously approved WDRs and a Monitoring and Reporting Program for the Project at the joint, regular meeting held on July 14, 2010 in South Lake Tahoe, Nevada and Victorville, California. The Board recommended adopting an order approving the WDRs subject only to locating an additional ground water monitoring well. This well was drilled and tested in November 2010. The Board Order was signed by the Executive Officer of the Regional Board on July 23, 2010.
The order approving the WDRs was a critical authorization for the construction and operation of, and establishes the discharge and monitoring standards for the heap leach pads, waste rock stockpiles and other activities that have the potential to affect surface and ground waters.
A Stage I, Surface Water, Sediment and Erosion Control Plan was prepared for the construction and early mining phases of the Project. Storm Water discharges will be regulated by the Regional Board under the State’s NPDES General Construction Storm Water Permit during the initial construction phase of the Project and under the NPDES General Industrial Storm Water Permit during mine operations. Our independent consulting engineer, a Qualified SWPPP Developer in California, therefore prepared the designs and the Company filed Permit Registration Documents electronically through the Storm Water Multiple Application and Report Tracking System (SMARTS). The Documents included a Notice of Intent, Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP), Risk Assessment, a Site Map and a signed certification statement by the Legally Responsible Person. The Company also paid the first annual fee. Note that the SWPPP alone is a 200-page document. Note further that the Documents filed through SMARTS meet applicable NPDES Storm Water Program requirements of the Kern County Engineering, Surveying & Permit Services Department. The Notice of Intent is now active.
The Company and GQM LLC has submitted quarterly and annual reports in compliance with the WDRs.
Groundwater monitoring consists of sampling groundwater in four wells once per quarter. The historical sampling method for these wells involved conventional large-volume purging with high-capacity pumps. An alternative sampling methods comparison was conducted on one well in 2011 and 2012. Based upon this evaluation an independent consulting engineering firm based in Denver recommended installing dedicated low-flow bladder pumps in four wells and this was approved by the Regional Board in May 2012. The low-flow bladder pumps and associated tubing were installed during the week of August 13, 2012. The Water Quality Monitoring and Data Management Procedures Manual was updated to reflect the changes.
Closure, Reclamation and Financial Assurance
Closure and reclamation will be done in accordance with the requirements set out in the CUPs and an approved Surface Mining and Reclamation Plan and as set out in the Board Order issued by the Regional Board.
The following general principles apply:
Considerable experience gained in reclamation of other heap leach operations in the California deserts since the mid-1990s shows that reclamation can be completed successfully.
The Surface Mining and Reclamation Plan will be an active plan with concurrent reclamation on one hand and alternative reclamation concepts to be sought and evaluated during the mine life on the other hand.
Reclamation will proceed concurrently where feasible, but is nonetheless expected to require two years following ending of all mining and the processing and sale of aggregate and construction materials.
The site drainage plan will be re-assessed to direct and thus control runoff to minimize erosion.
Public safety will be a concern to be addressed both while mining is underway and as part of closure.
Post-closure monitoring will continue until revegetation targets are met with the ultimate goal of establishing a productive and self-staining eco-system.
The following points will have an impact on closure and reclamation costs:
The footprint required for Project facilities has been significantly reduced from the earlier concepts.
A road to the top of Soledad Mountain will remain for access to public facilities and will not be reclaimed.
Waste rock will be disposed of in mined-out phases of the open pit as part of a comprehensive waste rock management plan.
GQM LLC is committed to neutralizing, rinsing and then selling the leached residues.
The size and complexity of the crushing and screening plant has been significantly reduced with fewer structures that have to be dismantled and fewer concrete footings that have to be broken up or buried.
The following two items will require future consideration:
The workshop, warehouse building, wash slab, security and bulk fuel storage tanks, septic tank, leach field and the parking lot will find an approved, alternative industrial use and may not be dismantled. The sites where these facilities are constructed may not have to be reclaimed.
Two (or three) groundwater production wells may remain for future industrial or municipal use. The water supply infrastructure may be turned over to the Mojave Public Utility District to become part of the permanent facilities in the area.
Reclamation will proceed concurrently where feasible, but is nonetheless expected to require two years following ending of mining and all aggregate operations, and a further three years of post-closure monitoring. Monitoring will continue until the reclamation success criteria are met.
Revegetation
Sites have been revegetated successfully elsewhere in the California deserts, for example at the Castle Mountain Mine in San Bernardino County, and it is expected that revegetation can be completed successfully for the Project as per the detailed revegetation plan that has been prepared by independent consulting engineers.
A summary of the proposed revegetation procedures is given below:
Two revegetation test plots were prepared and seeded north and south of Soledad Mountain in 2006 and 2007 respectively to demonstrate that seed collected locally can be an effective source of seed;
Seed is being collected locally and a seed library has been established;
Seed collected locally will be supplemented by seed contained in growth media that has been stockpiled;
Surfaces will be prepared to provide textures suitable for desert plants and micro-basins will be created to trap seed and moisture;
Hand seeding has been found to be effective and aerial (crop duster or helicopter) seeding can be used in areas that are inaccessible by vehicle or foot;
Seeded areas will not require fertilizer and watering;
Reclamation of disturbed areas will occur as soon as possible throughout the mine life;
Control of runoff to minimize erosion will be a key to successful revegetation; and
Quantifiable goals for density and diversity of perennial species have been proposed.
Financial Assurances
GQM LLC is required to provide the following financial assurances for the Project:
To the Bureau of Land Management, State of California and Kern County for general reclamation on site;
To the State Water Resources Control Board for rinsing and closing reclamation of the leached residues on the heap and
“Unforeseen events financial assurance” required by the State Water Resources Control Board to provide for an unforeseen event that could contaminate surface or groundwater.
GQM LLC has provided reclamation financial assurance in the form of a Letter of Credit backed by a Certificate of Deposit with Union Bank, N.A. to the Bureau of Land Management, the State and Kern County totaling $553,329 (2013 - $478,742; 2012 - $339,079).
The estimate for reclamation financial assurance is $624,142 for 2015 and this estimate has been submitted to the Engineering, Surveying & Permit Services Department for review and approval.
Cleanup on Site
The Company has done extensive cleanup on site since 2006 at a cost of approximately $550,000 and GQM LLC is continuing the cleanup effort. This was a significant cost for the Company and demonstrates that the Company and GQM LLC are committed to environmental stewardship and good housekeeping in its operations.
Environmental, Safety and Health Policy
GQM LLC has an Environmental, Safety and Health Policy and a management system to implement the Policy.
The Company prepared a Cyanide Management Plan for the Project and became a signatory to the International Cyanide Management Code in 2013. The Code was developed under the auspices of the United Nations Environment Program and the International Council on Metals and the Environment. The International Cyanide Management Institute, a non-profit organization, administers the Code. Signatories to the Code commit to follow the Principles set out in Code and to follow the Standards of Practice. Companies are expected to design, construct, operate and decommission their facilities consistent with the requirements of the Code and must have their operations audited by an independent third party. Audit results are made public.
Item 3.