Item 2. Properties
Summary of Oil and Gas Properties
Midland Basin
As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 27,900 net acres in the core of the Midland Basin that are highly contiguous on a project-by-project basis which allow us to drill multi-well pads. Of this acreage, 78% is operated and 22% is non-operated. We hold an approximate 93% working interest in our operated acreage and an approximate 40% working interest in our non-operated acreage. Our operated acreage in the Midland Basin, consisting of approximately 21,800 net acres, is primarily located
in Reagan, Upton and Midland counties. Our non-operated acreage in the Midland Basin, consisting of approximately 6,100 net acres, is located primarily in Howard, Glasscock, Martin, Midland and Reagan counties.
With 407 potential gross operated horizontal drilling locations, largely de-risked, the vast majority of which are in various benches of the Wolfcamp and the Spraberry formations, in the Midland Basin as of December 31, 2020, we are focused on developmental drilling and completion operations in the area. As a result of the IRM Acquisition, we added 43,400 additional net acres in the Midland Basin of which 99% is operated and 1% is non-operated, as well as adding 70 potential gross horizontal drilling locations on core acreage located in Midland and Ector counties. We continue to pursue acreage trades or bolt-on acreage acquisitions in the Midland Basin with the intent of increasing our operated acreage and drilling inventory, drilling and completing longer laterals and realizing greater operating efficiencies.
During 2020, we completed and began producing from 9 gross / 9 net operated wells and 15 gross / 3.5 net non-operated wells. We exited 2020 with 5 gross / 3.7 net wells that were drilled and awaiting completion. We recently completed these wells and anticipate turning them to sales before the end of March 2021.
We recently commenced our 2021 drilling program with the deployment of a rig in Midland County. After drilling on a three-well pad in the Hamman project, we expect to drill a four-well pad on the recently acquired IRM Spanish Pearl project. We anticipate moving the rig to Upton County and drilling 10-11 wells. Consistent with previously released guidance, we anticipate drilling 16 gross / 14.8 net operated wells and spudding an additional 5 gross / 3.7 net operated wells during 2021.
Eagle Ford Trend
As of December 31, 2020, we held approximately 26,400 gross (12,500 net) leasehold acres primarily in Fayette, Gonzales and Karnes counties, Texas. The acreage is located in the crude oil window of the Eagle Ford shale trend of south Texas and is prospective for the Eagle Ford, Austin Chalk and Upper Eagle Ford formations. Our working interests range from approximately 12% to 67%.
As of December 31, 2020, we operated 103 gross Eagle Ford wells and 12 gross Austin Chalk wells and had non-operated interests in five gross producing Eagle Ford wells and one gross producing Austin Chalk wells. We have identified a total of 26 potential gross Eagle Ford drilling locations in this acreage. In addition, because our acreage position is prospective for the Austin Chalk and Upper Eagle Ford formations, we may have additional future economic locations. The majority of our acreage is covered by an approximately 173 square mile 3-D seismic survey.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
As of December 31, 2020, all of our oil and natural gas reserves were located in the state of Texas. We expect to further develop these properties through additional drilling and completion operations. Our reserve estimates have been prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“CG&A”), an independent petroleum engineering firm. The scope and results of CG&A’s procedures are summarized in a letter which is included as an exhibit to this report. For further information on estimated reserves, including information on estimated future net cash flows and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, please refer to the Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities (Unaudited) in Part II, Item 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this report.
As of December 31, 2020, our estimated proved reserves totaled 78,875 MBOE and had a PV-10 value of approximately $473.4 million (reconciled in “Non-GAAP Measures” below) and a Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows of approximately $460.9 million, all of which relate to our properties in Texas. We incurred approximately $66.8 million in capital expenditures, primarily drilling and completion costs, during 2020. We expect to further develop our properties through additional drilling.
2020 Activity in Proved Reserves
From January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020, our total estimated proved reserves decreased 16% from 94,336 MBOE to 78,875 MBOE. Of that, estimated proved developed reserves increased 21% from 31,521 MBOE to 38,298 MBOE and estimated proved undeveloped reserves decreased 35% from 62,815 MBOE to 40,577 MBOE. The overall proved reserve decreases were primarily attributable to negative revisions due to price which included the reclassification of 11,913 MBOE of reserves from proved undeveloped to non-proved due to the five-year development rule.
Proved Reserves as of December 31, 2020
The below table sets forth a summary of our estimated crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves as of December 31, 2020, based on the annual reserve estimate prepared by CG&A. In preparing this reserve report, CG&A evaluated 100% of our properties at December 31, 2020. The prices used in estimating proved reserves are based on the unweighted arithmetic average
of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the 12-month period for the year. All prices and costs associated with operating wells were held constant in accordance with the SEC guidelines.
Our proved reserve categories as of December 31, 2020 are summarized in the table below:
(1)Includes 21.5 MMBbl of oil, 59.6 Bcf of natural gas and 10.8 MMBbl of NGLs reserves attributable to noncontrolling interests. Additionally, $253.6 million of PV-10 and $246.9 million of standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows were attributable to noncontrolling interests.
(2)Barrels of oil equivalent have been calculated on the basis of six thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas equal to one barrel of oil equivalent (BOE).
Non-GAAP Measures
PV-10
PV-10 is a non-GAAP measure that differs from a measure under the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) known as “standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows” in that PV-10 is calculated without including future income taxes. Management believes that the presentation of the PV-10 value of its oil and natural gas properties is relevant and useful to investors because it presents the estimated discounted future net cash flows attributable to our estimated proved reserves independent of our income tax attributes, thereby isolating the intrinsic value of the estimated future cash flows attributable to our reserves. We believe the use of a pre-tax measure provides greater comparability of assets when evaluating companies because the timing and quantification of future income taxes is dependent on company-specific factors, many of which are difficult to determine. For these reasons, management uses and believes that the industry generally uses the PV-10 measure in evaluating and comparing acquisition candidates and assessing the potential rate of return on investments in oil and natural gas properties. PV-10 does not necessarily represent the fair market value of oil and natural gas properties. PV-10 is not a measure of financial or operational performance under GAAP, nor should it be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as defined under GAAP.
The table below provides a reconciliation of PV-10 to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows (in thousands):
(1)Includes $253.6 million attributable to noncontrolling interests.
(2)Includes $246.9 million attributable to noncontrolling interests.
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is a measure that we use as an indicator of our ability to fund our development activities. We define free cash flow as Adjusted EBITDAX (defined below), less interest expense, less accrual-based capital expenditures.
Adjusted EBITDAX
The non-GAAP financial measure of Adjusted EBITDAX, as calculated by us below, is intended to provide readers with meaningful information that supplements our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, this non-GAAP measure should only be considered in conjunction with financial statements and disclosures prepared in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP measures, such as net income or loss, operating income or loss or any other GAAP measure of financial position or results of operations. Adjusted EBITDAX is presented herein and
reconciled from the GAAP measure of net income because of its wide acceptance by the investment community as a financial indicator.
We define “Adjusted EBITDAX” as net income plus, when applicable, accretion of asset retirement obligations; impairment expense; depletion, depreciation and amortization; interest expense, net; transaction costs; (gain) on sale of oil and gas properties, net; exploration expense; unrealized loss (gain) on derivative contracts; stock-based compensation (non-cash); and income tax benefit.
Our Adjusted EBITDAX measure provides additional information that may be used to better understand our operations. Adjusted EBITDAX is one of several metrics that we use as a supplemental financial measurement in the evaluation of our business and should not be considered as an alternative to, or more meaningful than, net (loss) income as an indicator of operating performance. Certain items excluded from Adjusted EBITDAX are significant components in understanding and assessing a company’s financial performance, such as a company’s cost of capital and tax structure, as well as the historic cost of depreciable and depletable assets. Adjusted EBITDAX, as used by us, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. We believe that Adjusted EBITDAX is a widely followed measure of operating performance and is one of many metrics used by our management team and by other users of our consolidated financial statements. For example, Adjusted EBITDAX can be used to assess our operating performance and return on capital in comparison to other independent exploration and production companies without regard to financial or capital structure and to assess the financial performance of our assets and our Company without regard to capital structure or historical cost basis.
Reserve Quantity Information
The following table illustrates our estimated net proved reserves, including changes, and proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves for the periods indicated. The oil prices as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, are based on the respective 12-month unweighted average of the first of the month prices of the WTI spot prices which equates to $39.57 per barrel and $55.69 per barrel, respectively. The natural gas prices as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 are based on the respective 12-month unweighted average of the first of month prices of the Henry Hub spot price which equates to $1.99 per MMBtu and $2.58 per MMBtu, respectively. The natural gas liquids prices used to value reserves as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 averaged $11.61 per barrel and $16.17 per barrel, respectively. All prices are adjusted by lease or field for energy content, transportation fees, and market differentials, resulting in the aforementioned oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves as of December 31, 2020 being valued using prices of $38.90 per barrel, $0.97 per MMBtu and $11.61 per barrel, respectively. All prices are held constant in accordance with SEC guidelines.
A summary of our changes in quantities of proved oil, natural gas and NGLs reserves for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows:
The table below presents the quantities of proved oil, natural gas and NGLs reserves attributable to noncontrolling interests as of December 31, 2020 and 2019:
Notable changes in proved reserves for the year ended December 31, 2020 included the following:
•Extensions and discoveries. In 2020, total extensions and discoveries of 860.0 MBOE was the result of successful drilling results and well performance primarily related to the Midland Basin.
•Revision to previous estimates. In 2020, the downward revisions of prior reserves of 10.7 MMBOE were primarily attributable to negative revisions due to price which included the reclassification of 11.9 MMBOE of reserves from proved undeveloped to non-proved due to the five-year development rule.
Notable changes in proved reserves for the year ended December 31, 2019 included the following:
•Extensions and discoveries. In 2019, total extensions and discoveries of 5.1 MMBOE was a result of successful drilling results and well performance primarily related to the Midland Basin.
•Sales of minerals in place. Sales of minerals in place totaled 32.0 MBOE during 2019, resulting from the disposition of certain non-operated properties in the Midland Basin. See Note 3. Acquisitions and Divestitures in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
•Revision to previous estimates. In 2019, the downward revisions of prior reserves of 4.6 MMBOE were primarily due to reduced commodity prices.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Proved undeveloped reserves (“PUDs”) decreased from 62,815 MBOE to 40,577 MBOE or 35%, as of December 31, 2020 compared to December 31, 2019. PUDs represent 51% of our total proved reserves. Certain previously booked PUDs were reclassified as proved developed reserves due to successful drilling efforts. Revisions of prior estimates include certain PUDs that were reclassified to unproved categories due to development plan changes and increased well spacing. In accordance with our December 31, 2020 year-end independent engineering reserve report, we plan to drill all of our individual PUD drilling locations within the five years of original classification.
Changes in our PUD reserves for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were as follows (in MBOE):
(1)Includes 41,560 MBOE attributable to noncontrolling interests.
(2)Includes 34,243 MBOE attributable to noncontrolling interests.
(3)Includes 21,737 MBOE attributable to noncontrolling interests.
2020 Changes in Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Conversions to developed. In our year-end 2019 plan to develop its PUDs within five years, we estimated that $111.1 million of capital would be expended in 2020 for the conversion of 28 gross / 17.6 net PUDs to add 11.3 MMBOE. In 2020, due to unforeseeable conditions described above, we spent $67.8 million to convert 18 gross / 10.3 net PUDs adding 8.2 MMBOE to developed reserves.
Revision to previous estimates. We maintain a five-year development plan, reviewed annually to ensure capital is allocated to the wells that have the highest risk-adjusted rates of return within our inventory of undrilled well locations. In response to lower commodity prices, we reduced the pace of activity in our five-year development plan. This resulted in the reclassification of 11.9 MMBOE of reserves from proved undeveloped to non-proved during the year ended December 31, 2020 due to the five-year development rule. Based on our then-current acreage position, strip prices, anticipated well economics, and our development plans at the time these reserves were classified as proved, we believe the previous classification of these locations as proved undeveloped was appropriate. The remaining revisions of 2.1 MMBOE were primarily due to reduced commodity prices.
2019 Changes in Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Conversions to developed. In our year-end 2018 plan to develop our PUDs within five years, we estimated that $103.8 million of capital would be expended in 2019 for the conversion of 30 gross / 12.3 net PUDs to add 9.9 MMBOE, which was consistent with the $111.5 million actually spent to convert 32 gross / 13.4 net PUDs adding 10.3 MMBOE to developed reserves.
Extensions and discoveries. Additionally, 1.2 MMBOE were added as extensions and discoveries due to successful drilling results on our acreage positions because of the wells we drilled. The increase was also supported by successful drilling results by other operators directly offsetting and in close proximity to our acreage.
Revision to previous estimates. Revisions of 3.4 MMBOE were primarily due to reduced commodity prices.
Estimated Costs Related to Conversion of Proved Undeveloped Reserves to Proved Developed Reserves
The following table sets forth the estimated timing and cash flows of developing our proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2020 ($ in thousands):
(1)Beginning in 2021 and thereafter, the production and cash flows represent the drilling results from the respective year plus the incremental effects from the results of proved undeveloped drilling from previous years. These production volumes, inflows, expenses, development costs and cash flows are limited to the PUD reserves and do not include any production or cash flows from the Proved Developed category which will also help to fund our capital program.
(2)Barrels of oil equivalent have been calculated on the basis of six thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas equal to one barrel of oil equivalent (BOE).
(3)Computation is based on SEC pricing of (i) $38.90 per Bbl (WTI-Cushing oil spot prices, adjusted for differentials), (ii) $0.97 per Mcf (Henry Hub spot natural gas price), as adjusted for location and quality by property and (iii) $11.61 per Bbl for natural gas liquids.
PUD reserves are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage or from existing wells where additional capital expenditures are required, such as from drilled but uncompleted (DUC) wells. Our development plan contemplates production to commence from all these wells by 2024.
Historically, our drilling programs have been substantially funded from our cash flow and borrowings under our Credit Agreement. Based on current commodity prices and our current expectations over the next five years of our cash flows and
drilling programs, which includes drilling of proved undeveloped and unproven locations, we believe that we can continue to substantially fund our drilling activities from our cash flow and with borrowings under the Credit Agreement.
Preparation of Reserve Estimates
We engaged an independent petroleum engineering consulting firm, CG&A, to prepare our annual reserve estimates and we have relied on CG&A’s expertise to ensure that our reserve estimates are prepared in compliance with SEC guidelines.
The technical person primarily responsible for the preparation of the reserve report is Mr. W. Todd Brooker, President of CG&A. He graduated with honors from the University of Texas at Austin in 1989 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering. Mr. Brooker is a Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Texas (License No. 83462) and has more than 25 years of experience in the estimation and evaluation of oil and natural gas reserves. He is also a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
Geoffrey A. Vernon, our Vice President of Reservoir Engineering and A&D, is responsible for reservoir engineering, is a qualified reserve estimator and auditor and is primarily responsible for overseeing CG&A during the preparation of our annual reserve estimates. His professional qualifications meet or exceed the qualifications of reserve estimators and auditors set forth in the “Standards Pertaining to Estimation and Auditing of Oil and Natural Gas Reserves Information” promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. His qualifications include a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemical Engineering from Texas Tech University in 2007; a Master of Business Administration degree from Rice University in 2014; member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers since 2007; and more than 13 years of practical experience in estimating and evaluating reserve information with more than nine of those years being in charge of estimating and evaluating reserves.
We maintain adequate and effective internal controls over our reserve estimation process as well as the underlying data upon which reserve estimates are based. The primary inputs to the reserve estimation process are technical information, financial data, ownership interest and production data. The relevant field and reservoir technical information, which is updated, at least, annually, is assessed for validity when CG&A has technical meetings with our engineers, geologists, operations and land personnel. Current revenue and expense information is obtained from our accounting records, which are subject to external quarterly reviews, annual audits and our own set of internal controls over financial reporting. Internal controls over financial reporting are assessed for effectiveness annually using criteria set forth in Internal Control - Integrated Framework, (2013 Version) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. All current financial data such as commodity prices, lease operating expenses, production taxes and field level commodity price differentials are updated in the reserve database and then analyzed to ensure that they have been entered accurately and that all updates are complete. Our current ownership in mineral interests and well production data are also subject to our internal controls over financial reporting, and they are incorporated in our reserve database as well and verified internally by our personnel to ensure their accuracy and completeness. Once the reserve database has been updated with current information, and the relevant technical support material has been assembled, CG&A meets with our technical personnel to review field performance and future development plans in order to further verify the validity of estimates. Following these reviews, the reserve database is furnished to CG&A so that it can prepare its independent reserve estimates and final report. The reserve estimates prepared by CG&A are reviewed and compared to our internal estimates by our Vice President of Reservoir Engineering and A&D. Material reserve estimation differences are reviewed between CG&A and us, and additional data is provided to address the differences. If the supporting documentation will not justify additional changes, the CG&A reserves are accepted. In the event that additional data supports a reserve estimation adjustment, CG&A will analyze the additional data, and may make changes it solely deems necessary. Additional data is usually comprised of updated production information on new wells. Once the review is completed and all material differences are reconciled, the reserve report is finalized and our reserve database is updated with the final estimates provided by CG&A.
Net Oil, Natural Gas and Natural Gas Liquids Production, Average Price and Average Production Cost
The net quantities of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids produced and sold by us for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, the average sales price per unit sold (excluding hedges) and the average production cost per unit are presented below:
* Barrels of oil equivalent have been calculated on the basis of six thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas equal to one barrel of oil equivalent (BOE).
** Amounts exclude the impact of cash paid/received on settled derivative contracts as we did not elect to apply hedge accounting. Our derivatives for 2020 and 2019 have been marked-to-market in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and both the realized and unrealized amounts are reported as other income/expense.
The following tables summarize the net quantities of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids produced and sold by us, the average sales price per unit sold (excluding hedges) and the average production cost per unit for each of our core areas for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Midland Basin
* Barrels of oil equivalent have been calculated on the basis of six thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas equal to one barrel of oil equivalent (BOE).
** Amounts exclude the impact of cash paid/received on settled derivative contracts as we did not elect to apply hedge accounting.
Eagle Ford Trend
* Barrels of oil equivalent have been calculated on the basis of six thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas equal to one barrel of oil equivalent (BOE).
** Amounts exclude the impact of cash paid/received on settled derivative contracts as we did not elect to apply hedge accounting.
Gross and Net Productive Wells
The following table summarizes our gross and net productive oil and natural gas wells by area as of December 31, 2020. A net well represents our percentage of ownership of a gross well.
Acreage
The following table summarizes our gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage by area and state as of December 31, 2020. Net acreage represents our percentage ownership of gross acreage.
The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2020, the portion of our gross and net acreage subject to expiration over the next three years if not successfully developed or renewed.
Approximately 97% of the Midland Basin net acreage is held by production and approximately 84% of the Eagle Ford net acreage is held by production. On a combined basis, our total net acreage is approximately 93% held by production.
Drilling Activities
The following table sets forth information with respect to (i) wells drilled and completed during the periods indicated and (ii) wells drilled in a prior period but completed in the periods indicated.
(1)The dry hole category includes one gross (0.2 net) non-operated well that was unsuccessful due to mechanical issues.
The figures in the table above do not include 5 gross wells (3.7 net) that were drilled and uncompleted or in the process of being completed at December 31, 2020, all of which are classified as PUDs as of that date and are expected to begin producing in the first quarter of 2021.
Item 3.