ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
Figure - Project Location Map
GOLDEN CHEST PROJECT
Figure - Photo of New Golden Chest Mine Portal in October 2014
Property Location
The Golden Chest Mine is an underground mine, an open pit mine, and an exploration project located about 1.5 miles east of Murray, Idaho, comprised of 25 patented mining claims (280 acres) and 70 unpatented claims (990 acres). The site is along USFS Highway 9 and is accessible by several improved dirt roads from the paved highway. A three-phase power line was installed at the property in 2014 with power supplied by Avista Utilities.
Property Ownership
NJMC owns 100% of Golden Chest LLC which owns the Golden Chest project. The Company consolidated its ownership in December 2015, purchasing Marathon Gold Corporation’s (“Marathon”) 52.22% stake for $180,000 along with a 2% NSR on production from the Golden Chest property, as well as an adjacent Area of Interest.
Golden Chest LLC purchased the mine from Metaline Contact Mines and J.W. Beasley Interests for $3.75-million. As of December 31, 2016, Golden Chest LLC had paid $3,000,000, and has agreed to pay the sellers $625,000 over the next year with one remaining $125,000 payment in 2018. The sellers have a first mortgage on the mine as security for future payments owing.
In September 2013, the Skookum Shoot portion of the Golden Chest property was leased to Juniper Resources LLC (“Juniper”). The agreement was later assigned to Gold Hill Reclamation and Mining Inc. (“Gold Hill”), a private Idaho corporation affiliated with Juniper, which built and operated a modern gold mine. In September 2015, Gold Hill ceased operations and terminated its lease, forfeiting the mine and infrastructure back to Golden Chest LLC.
Property History
The Golden Chest Mine was developed in the late-1800s or early-1900s as part of the early gold production from the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. Historical accounts vary, but the district is believed to have produced approximately 300,000 ounces of gold from placer sources. It is estimated that the historic hard rock mining operations on the Golden Chest property produced approximately 75,000 ounces of gold, primarily from shallow, underground, high-grade veins. The Golden Chest is considered to be the largest historic lode producer of gold in north Idaho,
Modern exploration of the Golden Chest area began in the late-1970s with several companies, including Cominco-American and Golden Chest Inc. (“GCI”), targeting gold and massive sulfides. Drill tests by GCI included a 200-foot hole from surface that intersected a 60-foot zone containing multiple low grade gold-bearing quartz veins.
Newmont Exploration Ltd. followed GCI’s discovery by evaluating the veins for bulk mineable potential in the late-1980s. A geochemical survey yielded soil samples from the mine area that were anomalous in both gold and arsenic, indicating a well-developed vein system. Newmont then drilled 35 shallow reverse-circulation and five core holes, establishing an historic resource, most of which is related the Idaho Vein system on the south end of the property.
Present Condition, Work Completed, and Exploration Plans
Exploration & Development by NJMC & Golden Chest LLC
NJMC first leased the property in 2003, then explored, drilled, and developed it over subsequent years, producing 8,400 tonnes of ore averaging 6.9 gpt gold, all of which was processed at its New Jersey Mill for total production of nearly 2,000 ounces of gold. From 2004 through 2008, the Company completed exploration core-drilling program at the Golden Chest totaling 3,415 meters of core during that period, successfully extending the Idaho Vein below the No. 3 Level. NJMC connected the historic No. 3 Level to the surface by driving a 440-meter ramp (the “North Ramp”), which was completed in 2008.
In 2010, NJMC terminated its operating leases to form Golden Chest LLC with Marathon. NJMC contributed certain mining claims, all geological data, and mining equipment to the venture, while Marathon contributed $4-million cash. As Marathon is a Canadian issuer, the joint venture operated and issued technical disclosures in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects (NI 43-101).
In 2011, Golden Chest LLC completed the most aggressive exploration project in the history of the property, totaling 11,300 meters of surface drilling. Other work completed included the construction of a new core shed, construction of new roads, surface geological work, surface and underground surveying, underground exploration drifting, and mine rehabilitation. In 2012, Golden Chest LLC completed an additional 7,000 meters of drilling and exploration drifting on the Popcorn vein. Based on the results of those work programs, Golden Chest LLC delineated an updated gold resource and filed a technical report in compliance with NI 43-101.
The Juniper Lease & Mine Modernization
In September 2013, the Skookum Shoot portion of the Golden Chest property was leased to Juniper, which later reassigned the lease to Gold Hill, an affiliate company. Gold Hill began construction in Q3 2014, spending an estimated $7 to $9-million on mine development and infrastructure, building a modern gold mine that reached full production in May 2015. Mining activities continued until September 2015 when Gold Hill ceased operations and terminated its lease, forfeiting the mine and infrastructure back to Golden Chest LLC.
While in operation, NJMC processed Golden Chest ore at its New Jersey Mill, earning cash from milling fees and its share of a 2% net smelter return (“NSR”) royalty on gold production. In total, Gold Hill mined 40,840 dry metric tonnes of ore at an average grade of 6.70 gpt gold, resulting in production of approximately 8,000 ounces of gold.
The underground development performed by Gold Hill was based largely on prior exploration work done by Golden Chest LLC. Following lease termination, NJMC bought out Marathon’s interest in Golden Chest LLC in December 2015 for $180,000 and a 2% NSR royalty on production from the property and an adjacent Area of Interest.
Plans to Resume Underground Operations
In late-2015, NJMC launched an internal scoping study, outlining plans to resume production at the Golden Chest. The Company developed a two-year underground mine plan, focused on unmined ore from the Gold Hill mine plan and from other easily accessible zones, while retaining all upside potential of up-dip, down-dip, and on-strike extensions such as the Paymaster zone, as well as the larger, district-scale potential. The underground mine plan has a 3,000-tonne per month production target with all material to be processed at the New Jersey Mill.
In 2016, NJMC made and executed plans to resume underground mining at Golden Chest, purchasing an underground haul truck and loader, receiving long-lead electrical components, and, following the purchase of its interest in the Butte Highlands project, negotiated the use of certain equipment owned by the Butte Highlands Joint Venture. With the mine fully permitted and dewatering complete, NJMC plans to resume underground mining operations in early-2017. Including a planned ramp-up period, the Company expects to produce approximately 8,000 ounces of gold in the coming year.
Modern exploration, including nearly 30,000 meters of drilling, reveals seven NW-trending ore shoots at Golden Chest that demonstrate strong periodicity, consistent width and spacing, along the Idaho Fault. Most historic production came from the northernmost of these shoots, the Katie-Dora and the Klondike. Excellent mineralization potential remains in unmined portions of the northern shoots as well as in the unmined Paymaster and Joe Dandy shoots to the south. The Company is targeting the Paymaster and Joe Dandy ore shoots as its top exploration priorities for future mine expansion.
Recent data compilation efforts by NJMC have integrated all available modern exploration data from the property and across the Murray area, including work by Cominco, Newmont, NJMC, Golden Chest LLC, and the recent information provided by Gold Hill. Based on these studies and the Company’s own exploration results, Management believes the Golden Chest property has district-scale production potential for the longer term, not only near the recently constructed mine, but in areas of past exploration and historic production.
Open Pit Gold Production at Golden Chest
In 2016, NJMC used its scoping study, including tightly-spaced drill data in an outcrop area, to identify a mineable open pit directly above the main Golden Chest portal. Following the receipt of necessary permits, the Company began pit excavation and resumed gold production in Q3 2016 and resumed shipping ore to the New Jersey Mill in Q4 2016. The starter pit contains an estimated 13,000 tonnes of mineralized material at an average grade of 4.99 gpt gold, or approximately 2,100 ounces of recoverable gold, with potential for expansion.
While developing the open pit, excavation revealed three veins in the pit area: a hanging wall vein thought to be the Jumbo vein, the Idaho vein, and the newly-discovered Stevens Vein, with which most of the gold in the pit area is associated. A review of drill data suggests that the Stevens Vein may extend along strike to the north, potentially allowing for pit expansion and/or possible underground mineralization. Development of the open pit allowed the Company to resume gold production while the underground mine was dewatered.
While significant modern drilling, underground development, and pit excavation have resulted in industrial scale mining and recovery of gold, there are no mineral reserves at the Golden Chest, as recognized by the SEC.
Present Condition of Plant & Equipment
During the lease, Gold Hill made many improvements to the Golden Chest property including approximately 1,000 meters of underground development at a nominal cross section of 4 meters by 4 meters, the establishment of a secondary escape-way and ventilation raises, the installation of three-phase power, and many surface improvements such as a septic field and major new haul road to keep mine traffic separate from employee and visitor traffic. Gold Hill also constructed a 2500 square-foot steel-clad pole building which stands at the top of the most easterly driveway to the property and is used primarily for office space and core logging. A 600 square-foot steel-clad pole building, constructed by NJMC in 2005, is also present near the northern ramp portal.
Geology & Mineralization
Gold mineralization occurs in veins associated with multiple faulting and folding events in the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. The gold mineralization is of a broad type known as orogenic gold, but it also appears to have an association with igneous rock activity. Hence, the vein deposits may be described as intrusion-related orogenic gold. The principal vein being exploited at the Golden Chest Mine is associated with the Idaho Fault, which juxtaposes the quartzites of the upper Prichard Formation against finer-grained argillites, also of the upper Prichard Formation.
Veins occur in the Idaho Fault and to a lesser extent in its hangingwall and footwall. The mineralization occurs in two types of quartz veins that are generally conformable to bedding of the Prichard Formation of Proterozoic age. Thin-banded veins, occurring in argillite, contain visible gold, pyrite, arsenopyrite, galena, and sphalerite. Thicker, massive veins occur in quartzite and contain pyrite, galena, chalcopyrite, sphalerite, scheelite and visible gold.
NEW JERSEY MILL
Property Location
The New Jersey Mill is a fully-permitted, 360-tonne per day, flotation mill and concentrate leach plant (“CLP”) located two miles east of Kellogg, Idaho, in the Coeur d'Alene Mining District. The mill is located on the same property as the New Jersey Mine, adjacent to U.S. Interstate Highway 90 and easily accessed by local roads year-round. Three-phase electrical power is supplied to the New Jersey Mill by Avista Utilities.
Project Ownership
In 2011, NJMC signed a joint venture (“JV”) agreement with United Mine Services (“UMS”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of United Silver Corporation, to increase the capacity of the New Jersey Mill. UMS funded the mill expansion in return for a 35% interest in JV assets plus the right to process 7,000 tonnes of its ore per month. NJMC is the JV manager and retains a 65% interest in JV assets as well as the right to process its own ore at the rate of 3,000 tonnes per month and to allocate unused and excess capacity in its role as manager. The property covered by the JV agreement includes the crushing circuit, grinding circuit, gravity circuit, flotation circuit, CLP, buildings and surface rights only over the patented mill site claim. Unpatented mill site claims are also part of the JV.
Present Condition of Plant & Equipment
Mill Expansion and Crescent Ore Processing
The mill expansion was completed in 2012, rendering the mill capable of processing 360 tonnes of sulfide ore per day (a four-fold increase) to produce a single flotation concentrate. The expansion cost approximately $3.2 million, all of which was funded by UMS under terms of the JV (Ex. 10.1). The expansion project included the installation of a new cone crusher, a new fine ore bin, new conveyors, a new 2.4-meter by 4.0-meter ball mill, additional flotation cells, a new paste thickener, associated pumps, and a new building. Subsequent to the mill expansion, the New Jersey Mill processed 8,470 dry tonnes of silver ore from the Crescent Mine before operations ended.
In April 2014, Hale Capital Partners, through its subsidiary Crescent Silver LLC (“Crescent”), acquired the assets of UMS, including its stake in the New Jersey Mill JV, in a consensual foreclosure process. Therefore, Crescent is now the NJMC’s joint venture partner at the New Jersey Mill.
Mill Upgrades and Golden Chest Ore Processing
In September 2013, the Skookum Shoot portion of the Golden Chest Mine was leased to Juniper Resources LLC which, through its affiliate companies, developed a modern gold mine that reached full production in May 2015. NJMC processed Golden Chest ore at its New Jersey Mill, earning cash from milling fees and its share of a 2-percent net smelter return royalty on gold production.
Significant additional upgrades, including installation of a new gravity gold recovery circuit and a tune up the crushing, grinding, flotation, and tailings circuits were completed in 2014 in anticipation of ore deliveries from the Golden Chest Mine. From December 2014 through September 2015, 40,840 dry tonnes from the Golden Chest mine were successfully processed at the New Jersey Mill producing approximately 8,000 ounces of gold.
In addition to producing concentrates in 2015, NJMC leached approximately 10 tonnes of flotation concentrate, produced from Golden Chest ore, in the CLP at the New Jersey Mill. An improved leaching process that employs a Carbon-in-Leach finishing tank was tested, with objectives of reduced process time and increased gold recovery. Test results provided an understanding of which capital improvements to the leach circuit will be necessary to reach these objectives and also, as expected, confirmed that Golden Chest concentrates are amenable to leaching.
Current Ore Processing Operations
NJMC now has 100-percent ownership of the Golden Chest Mine Project. In October 2016, the Company resumed operations at the New Jersey Mill, processing ore extracted from open pit development at the Golden Chest.
The mill recycles process water and utilizes a paste tailings disposal process patented by NJMC founder Fred Brackebusch to minimize impact on the environment. By implementing paste tailings processing methods, NJMC is able to recycle all of its process water and prevent the discharge of process water to surface waters. At full capacity, this method saves more than 50 million gallons of water per year. NJMC was recognized as a “Pollution Prevention Champion” by the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality in 2014 for its efforts to reduce pollution at the mill.
As of December 31, 2016, the Company had a net capital cost of $4,647,120 associated with the New Jersey Mill.
BUTTE HIGHLANDS PROJECT
Property Location
In January 2016, NJMC purchased a 50% interest in Butte Highlands Joint Venture LLC (“BHJV”) from Timberline Resources Corporation (“Timberline”). BHJV owns the Butte Highlands Gold Project, located 15 miles south of Butte, Montana, within a gold-producing region that includes several large gold deposits. The property can be accessed via State Highway 2 and county and USFS roads. Electricity and water are available on the property.
Property Ownership
The Butte Highlands property covers approximately 1,310 acres and includes 11 patented claims, 65 unpatented lode mining claims, and 20 unpatented mill-site claims. BHJV owns all of the unpatented lode mining claims and unpatented mill-site claims, along with mineral and/or surface rights to certain of the patented claims.
All of the private lands within the Butte Highlands property are patented lode and placer claims. BHJV is responsible for paying Montana state property taxes on all patented lands and for paying annual BLM maintenance fees on all unpatented mining claims.
Butte Highlands Joint Venture
In 2009, Timberline formed a 50/50 joint venture, the BHJV, with Highland Mining LLC (“Highland”) for the purpose of developing and mining the Butte Highlands property, with Highland to fund all mine development costs through to commercial production. In 2012, Montana State Gold Company LLC (“MSGC”) purchased Highland, assuming its project loan and its funding commitment.
NJMC purchased Timberline’s 50% “carried to production” interest in BHJV in 2016, with Highland funding all development costs and NJMC’s 50% share of costs to be paid from proceeds of future mine production. Proceeds are to be split on an 80/20 basis (to Highland and NJMC, respectively) until payback is reached, after which proceeds will be split evenly.
Property History
The Butte Highlands gold mine was an historic lode mine that produced an estimated 60,000 ounces of gold from 1937 until the War Production Board forced its closure at the onset of WWII. The property was later explored by Battle Mountain, Placer Dome, ASARCO, and Orvana in the 1980s and 1990s which, in total, drilled more than 30,000 meters at Butte Highlands, prior to its acquisition by Timberline in 2007.
In 2009, Timberline formed a 50/50 joint venture with Highland to create BHJV for the purpose of developing and mining the property. In 2009 and 2010, Timberline conducted surface exploration, drilling, and permitting work as Highland began building surface and underground infrastructure.
In 2011, BHJV completed an underground exploration ramp and a 16,000-meter underground core drilling program to support mine modeling, focusing on the upper portion of the “Old Mill Block” which has dimensions of approximately 85 meters along strike, 335 meters down dip, and a mineralized thickness of 2.5 to 4.5 meters. The program returned many significant mineralized intercepts, including a highlight of 4.4 meters grading 232 gpt gold.
A NI 43-101 compliant technical report for Butte Highlands was completed in May 2013 by Mine Development Associates of Reno, Nevada.
The project has experienced significant timeline delays due, in part, to miscalculations of the permitting process and other technical issues. Permitting advanced more effectively from 2013 to 2015 with the following critical milestones successfully achieved:
•
In July 2013, the Montana Department of Environmental Quality (“DEQ”) issued the final Montana Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (“MPDES”) water discharge permit;
•
In January 2015, the Montana DEQ authorized BHJV to construct and operate an underground gold mine by publishing positive Record of Decision (“ROD”) on Final Environmental Impact Statement (“EIS”);
•
In October 2015, the U.S. Forest Service (“USFS”) released its Final Decision Notice on haul road with a Finding of No Significant Impacts.
These milestones represent the final major hurdles to the receipt of necessary permits allowing the project to proceed. Final construction designs and completion of work will be required, along with bond payments, before final authority is granted to proceed with the proposed operation. Once final designs and road construction are complete, the USFS will grant authority to use local USFS roads for material haulage. Upon payment of the reclamation bond, the Hard Rock Operating Permit will be granted by the Montana DEQ.
Present Condition, Work Completed, and Exploration Plans
Prior to NJMC’s purchase of its stake in BHJV, the BHJV partners envisioned a 4 to 5-year mine life with estimated annual production of 30,000 to 35,000 ounces of gold. Mining was proposed to be conducted by cut and fill methods at a rate of 400 tons per day with a cut-off grade estimated at 4.8 gpt gold. Waste rock will be replaced underground as cemented rock backfill in the mined ore zones to supply geotechnical stability. Preliminary metallurgical testwork indicates recoveries of approximately 85% of the contained gold in a flotation concentrate. Based on a draft internal scoping study produced by Timberline, NJMC Management purchased the Company’s interest in Butte Highlands with a belief that the deposit has the potential to contain 300,000 to 500,000 ounces of gold.
NJMC bought its stake in BHJV in January 2016. In March 2016, the Company signed a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) to modify the Operating Agreement that governs management of the Butte Highlands project. The non-binding MOU calls for NJMC, based on agreed to budgets and financing, to assume control of permitting and other day-to-day management functions. The Company and Highland have agreed to then formalize the MOU and execute a definitive agreement for purposes of moving the project forward and financing it into production.
NJMC intends to investigate the possibility of building and operating its own mill at Butte Highlands, as opposed to the existing plan of using USFS roads to haul material to a regional mill with excess capacity. On-site milling is expected to improve project economics but will involve additional permitting.
Present Condition of Plant & Equipment
Highland has invested nearly $40-million at Butte Highlands building a modern gold mine, including nearly a mile of underground mine development and construction of surface facilities, all of which are located on private lands owned by BHJV. Most surface facilities and infrastructure required for mining operations are already in place.
Geology & Mineralization
Gold mineralization at Butte Highlands is hosted primarily in lower Paleozoic Wolsey shale with higher-grade mineralization occurring within the sediments proximal to diorite sills and dikes. The project is within a favorable geologic domain that has hosted several multi-million ounce gold deposits.
NEW JERSEY MINE PROJECT
Property Location
The New Jersey Mine is an underground gold mine located two miles east of Kellogg, Idaho, in the Coeur d'Alene Mining District. The mine is adjacent to U.S. Interstate Highway 90 and is easily accessed by local roads year-round. The New Jersey Mill is located on the same property, providing a unique opportunity for small-scale production. Three-phase electrical power is supplied to the New Jersey Mill by Avista Utilities.
Property Ownership
At the New Jersey Mine and Mill complex, the Company owns 102 acres of private land with surface and mineral rights, 108 acres of private land with mineral rights only, 40 acres of private land with surface rights only, and approximately 130 acres of unpatented mining claims. The unpatented claims are on federal land administered by the BLM. The gold-bearing Coleman vein system, including the underground workings and the Coleman pit, are located on the patented mining claims that are wholly-owned by the Company and not part of the Mill Joint Venture.
Property History
In the late-1800s and early-1900s, New Jersey Mining and Milling (an unrelated company) drove more than 760 meters of development workings on the Coleman Vein and its northwest branch, including drifts, crosscuts, shafts, and raises. The historic development also included a 10-stamp gravity mill that was operated for a short period.
Present Condition, Work Completed, and Exploration Plans
Since 2001, NJMC has drilled 14 holes totaling 1,765 meters to explore the Coleman vein and associated zones. Drilling confirmed vein system continuity and resulted in the discovery of the broad, low grade (averaging about 0.70 gpt gold) Grenfel zone. The Company’s best intercept assayed 2.76 gpt gold over 12.5 meters, which included 6.80 gpt gold over 2.5 meters.
In 2008, the Company performed underground exploration on the Coleman vein at the 740 level, including 84 meters of drifting, with 20 meters along the vein before it was displaced by a fault. The Company also drill-tested the Scotch Thistle prospect, but a 400-meter program encountered only silicification and alteration with no significant gold mineralization. There are at least 14 gold prospects within or near the New Jersey Mine.
In 2010, a raise was driven upward on the 740 level to explore a narrow high-grade vein that crosscut the main Coleman vein. This raise was driven 12 meters vertically, leading to the extraction of 367 dry tonnes that assayed 2.68 gpt gold in processing at the New Jersey Mill.
NJMC has not conducted material work at the New Jersey Mine since 2010, but Company geologists are again evaluating the known gold-bearing veins and historic targets. With the New Jersey Mill actively processing ores from the Golden Chest Mine, the potential economics of nearby gold prospects may have improved materially.
While the Company has conducted significant drilling, underground development, and even limited gold production from the New Jersey Mine, the project has no mineral reserves as recognized by the SEC.
As of December 31, 2015, the Company had a capitalized development plus investment cost of $215,127 associated with the mine.
Geology & Mineralization
The New Jersey Mine area is underlain by argillites and quartzites of the Prichard Formation [member of Belt Supergroup], which commonly hosts gold mineralization. The property occurs adjacent to and north of the major Osburn Fault, a major geological structure of the Coeur d’Alene Mining District. The Prichard Formation is divided into nine units of alternating argillites, siltites, and quartzites; the units exposed in the New Jersey Mine area appear to belong to the lower members. Gold mineralization is associated with sulfide-bearing quartz veins that cut the bedding in Prichard argillite and quartzite. Associated sulfides are pyrite, arsenopyrite, chalcopyrite, low-silver tennantite, galena, and sphalerite.
TOBOGGAN PROJECT
Property Location
The Toboggan project is comprised of 106 unpatented mining claims, more than 2,100 acres, north and northwest of Murray, Idaho. The property covers an orogenic gold system with structurally-controlled zones occurring primarily along a northwest-trending corridor, approximately 3 miles north of the Company’s Golden Chest Mine. The claims can be accessed seasonally via a USFS dirt road.
Property Ownership
The project is comprised of 106 unpatented mining claims and is wholly-owned by NJMC.
The Little Baldy prospect is under lease to Hecla Silver Valley, a subsidiary of Hecla. The lease covers 39 unpatented claims owned by NJMC that surround 139 acres of patented claims owned by Hecla, but for which NJMC owns the surface rights.
The lease has a 20-year term and calls for annual payments to NJMC of $10,000 through the fifth year, then escalating to $15,000 for three years, $20,000 for one year, and $48,000 thereafter. Should gold production be realized from the leased claims, a 2% net smelter return royalty is due NJMC. The Company is currently in the fifth year of the lease. The annual requirement for 2017 is a payment of $15,000 and work commitment of $200,000 which will be paid by Hecla.
Property History
For the 2008 through 2010 exploration seasons, Toboggan was a joint venture between Newmont Mining Corporation (“Newmont”) and NJMC. Newmont generated and/or explored multiple prospects during the joint venture, including Little Baldy, Gold Butte, Mineral Ridge, Golden Reward, CA, Snowslide, Independence, and Progress. The Little Baldy prospect is under lease to Hecla Mining Company (“Hecla”).
The Little Baldy prospect was discovered when soil sampling by Newmont revealed a 700-meter by 300-meter gold anomaly. Follow-up rock sampling returned values of up to 2,130 gpt gold and more than 500 gpt tellurium, typical of the association of gold and tellurium found elsewhere at Toboggan. Five other surface rock samples from different locations averaged 26.6 gpt gold and 165 gpt tellurium.
The Gold Butte prospect has historic workings that include seven adits connected by a system of narrow roads. In 1941, ASARCO collected nine samples from within the workings, yielding an average grade of 6.4 gpt gold. The mineralized zone at Gold Butte outcrops over a strike length of at least 200 meters with a vertical extent of 120 meters. Soil sampling indicates the zone may continue north for at least another 400 meters, with a 75 to 90 meter width. Rock chip samples from Gold Butte have assayed up to 32.6 gpt gold in quartz vein and sulfidic breccia.
Historic workings at the Mineral Ridge prospect include six adits and several pits and trenches. In 1991, soil sampling by Nord-Pacific led to the discovery of a 1,650-meter by 240-meter gold anomaly. In 1992, a 9-hole, 850-meter RC drill program was completed with each hole intercepting mineralization ranging from anomalous gold to a 1.5-meter intercept of 18.9 gpt gold. More recently, NJMC discovered and mapped a new eastern zone, a sample of quartz-pyrite float from which assayed 38.4 gpt gold, 19.6 gpt silver, and 61.4 ppm tellurium.
The Golden Reward prospect was identified by soil sampling that outlined a 400-meter by 240-meter gold anomaly. A second mineralized zone (along with several smaller gold-in-soil anomalies) was discovered by soil sampling east of the main zone. High grade float contained visible gold and telluride minerals, assaying up to 67.6 gpt gold and more than 100 gpt silver.
In the 1980s, Cominco-American discovered a large geophysical anomaly, the CA prospect, covering about two square kilometers at a depth of 450 to 670 meters below surface. In 1987, Cominco-American drilled a 500-meter hole on the eastern edge of the anomaly, though it appears that the hole was too far east and to insufficient depth to intersect the anomaly.
The Progress prospect features historic workings and prospect pits on outcropping mineralization. The 40 samples taken at Progress included up to 73.7 gpt gold and 54.6 gpt tellurium from mine dumps and up to 42.0 gpt gold from prospect pits. A drill program planned by Newmont for 2010 was canceled due to permitting delays.
Present Condition, Work Completed, and Exploration Plans
Toboggan was an exploration joint venture between Newmont and the Company from March 2008 until March 2011. Newmont spent approximately $2-million and then exited the joint venture, quitclaiming all claims back to the Company, and returning the data generated from three seasons of exploration.
In 2008, Newmont completed a comprehensive early-stage exploration program including claim staking, soil sampling, rock sampling, geologic mapping, a ground-based geophysical survey at Gold Butte, and an airborne geophysical survey over the entire joint venture area.
In 2009, Newmont completed a 6-hole, 1,359-metre core drill program including two holes each at the Gold Butte, Mineral Ridge, and Golden Reward prospects. The best intercept occurred at Gold Butte where a near-surface pyritic quartz vein assayed 2.5 gpt gold over 4.0 meters, just 24 meters below surface. Thick intercepts of anomalous gold mineralization were drilled at Mineral Ridge and Golden Reward.
In 2010, Newmont completed eight shallow core holes and seven shallow RC holes. Six core holes were drilled at Gold Butte, intercepting a fault with anomalous gold mineralization. Two core holes were drilled at Mineral Ridge but were terminated due to difficult ground conditions. The RC holes were drilled at various locations near Toboggan Creek, on the Golden Reward, CA, and Snowslide, prospects, also returning anomalous gold.
After the 2010 exploration season, Newmont finally obtained the USFS permit necessary to drill its best targets, but terminated the joint venture before proceeding. No significant exploration has occurred at Toboggan since 2010.
With the resumption of mining operations at the Company’s nearby Golden Chest Mine, NJMC is re-evaluating the potential of the Toboggan project, but has no specific work plans at Toboggan for the upcoming year.
Toboggan is an early-stage exploration project with no mineral reserves as recognized by the SEC.
Geology & Mineralization
Gold mineralization at Toboggan is primarily hosted in the Prichard Formation. The gold is structurally-controlled in nature, occurring in discrete high-grade quartz veins or within wider zones of brecciation. There is a spatial relationship between the richest gold values and major structures within the district, such as the Murray Peak, Bloom Peak Fault, and Niagara faults. Some of the controlling structures may be related to the Idaho Fault, which hosts the gold veins at the Company’s Golden Chest Mine, further south. Geochemical analysis has revealed high tellurium levels associated with zones of higher-grade gold. The presence of telluride minerals along with alkaline intrusive rocks and areas of potassic alteration are consistent with alkalic-related orogenic gold systems.
McKINLEY PROJECT
Property Location
The McKinley property encompasses several historic mines and prospects in central Idaho, extending from just north of Riggins northward for nearly five miles. The property is easily accessible via public and private dirt roads off of US Highway 95.
Property Ownership
In 2013, NJMC acquired the McKinley property through its acquisition of Idaho Champion Resources (“ICR”).
The total property position is approximately 4,368 acres, which is comprised of the following:
A Purchase Option on the patented claims at the McKinley Mine (62 acres). The patented mining claims that host the McKinley Mine are held under a purchase option with an exercise price of $285,000. NJMC can perform certain due diligence, including exploration drilling, prior to the exercise date, which has been extended to November 2017. Terms of the purchase require 10% to be paid on or before the exercise date with the remaining balance amortized over 15 years at a 5% interest rate with quarterly payments for 5 years followed by a balloon payment for the remaining balance. A prior lessee of the McKinley Mine (Ex. 10.5) is due a 1.0% to 2.0% NSR sliding scale royalty based on the price of gold, which is capped at a total of $500,000.
The Rupp Lease (Ex. 10.7), which consists of a much larger mineral lease (1,728 acres) and additional lands with certain rights for access and surface disturbance (1,518 acres). An additional 3,246 acres is held through the Rupp Lease, including total surface and some mineral rights, that requires an annual rental payment of $6,100. If an ore reserve of 250,000 ounces of gold is achieved within the Rupp Lease, there is a 1% NSR royalty on future production less recoupment of capital costs. About 780 acres of the mineral rights subject to the Rupp Lease royalty are held through unpatented claims that also require an annual claim fee payment to the BLM.
A group of unpatented mining claims (1,060 acres). These claims require an annual claim fee payment to the BLM.
During 2016, NJMC made a total of $15,100 in property option payments.
Property History
The McKinley project is located in the Simpson Mining District, which is mainly known for placer gold production although it also hosts several historic lode mines. The area was first worked in 1891 with intermittent activity and mine development over the following decades by unknown operators. After the Patent for the mine was granted in 1909, sporadic activity continued until the mine was shut down by the War Production Board at the onset of WWII.
While Hunt Energy performed limited sampling in the late-1970s and 1980s and Kennecott Exploration evaluated the property in the early-1990s, no other modern exploration is known to have occurred on the property before ICR started evaluating it in 2012. ICR began assembling the McKinley land package in 2013, acquiring its larger components and entering into an Memorandum of Understanding for an option to purchase the McKinley Mine. ICR was then acquired by NJMC under an Exchange Agreement in late-2013.
Present Condition, Work Completed, and Exploration Plans
Prior to the Exchange Agreement, ICR conducted surface exploration, including a ground magnetic survey over a large portion of the property, approximately 2.4 by 5.6 kilometers. The survey indicates that potentially major structures passing through the district are associated with some degree of demagnetization. It also appears to indicate the mineralization at the McKinley Mine along with several potential target areas, including historic mines and prospects that extend for several miles along the known trend.
Subsequent rock chip sampling by NJMC identified two areas, outside the McKinley Mine area and along this trend, with significant gold mineralization in outcrop: the Monarch Zone, about one kilometer S-SW of the McKinley Mine, and along Fiddle Creek, which crosses the southern portion of the property. Both areas have had historic prospecting but no significant development and both areas exhibit carbonatization and quartz-carbonate veining along with visible gold and auriferous pyrite mineralization, similar to the McKinley Mine. Much of the ground between these prospects remains completely unexplored.
Of 285 rock chip samples collected by ICR and NJMC at the McKinley property, 49 samples returned gold values that exceeded 1 gpt, 32 samples exceeded 3 gpt, and 14 samples exceeded 10 gpt. Samples were collected over a broad area of the property, from both surface and underground, but primarily focused on its northern end, near the McKinley Mine. At the Monarch Zone, several samples returned high-grade gold with values up to 26 gpt. At Fiddle Creek, 10 of 20 samples exceeded 3 gpt gold with one sample exceeding 50 gpt gold.
NJMC also conducted geologic mapping at McKinley, both surface and underground. On the main level of the McKinley Mine, underground mapping depicts a series of coalescing mineralized faults. These intersecting structural features indicate the potential for hosting large, continuous blocks of high-grade gold mineralization.
In 2014, NJMC conducted a channel sampling program, cutting more than 150 meters of channel from mine ribs and stoped areas in three separate zones on the main mine level. Highlights included a 4.27-meter continuous channel that returned a weighted average of 47.0 gpt gold and a 1.74-meter continuous channel that returned a weighted average of 72.3 gpt gold. The Company used these results to guide an initial drill program.
Also in 2014, NJMC drilled 21 short, small-diameter (B sized) core holes totaling 388 meters from the main level of the McKinley Mine, where most of the historic production occurred. The holes were relatively short because of the use of a portable drill rig which NJMC custom engineered for the confined spaces of historic mine workings. While the custom drill has depth and angle limitations, it is also highly portable and does not require the construction of drill roads, realizing significant cost savings.
Eleven of the 21 drill holes encountered significant mineralization, including the following highlights:
●
DDH-02, which returned an 2.56-meter interval with a weighted average grade of 43.9 gpt gold
●
DDH-10, which returned an 3.44-meter interval with a weighted average grade of 18.5 gpt gold.
All channel sample and drill intervals reported are core length, not true thickness.
Although no significant work was performed at McKinley in 2016, the Company is preparing to resume exploration efforts in 2017. With historic production, widespread gold mineralization, and a mineralized trend that appears to be nearly three miles long, the Company’s exploration objective at its McKinley project is to evaluate its potential to host one or more high-grade gold deposits.
McKinley is an early-stage exploration project with no mineral reserves as recognized by the SEC.
Present Condition of Plant & Equipment
The McKinley Mine has four levels and approximately 1,190 meters of accessible underground workings that remain in good condition. The workings include two main levels separated vertically by approximately 90 meters with two intermediate sublevels, all of which are connected by a series of sub-vertical raises. There are other small historic mines on the property, one of which includes more than 360 meters of underground workings. There is no usable equipment at the various historic mine sites.
Geology and Mineralization
The McKinley Project is located within the rocks of the Riggins and Seven Devils Groups of the Blue Mountains Island-Arc Complex. Rocks of the accreted Riggins Group and Seven Devils Terrane are widely considered to be the source of coarse gold found in the extensive historic placer operations near Lucile. The types of gold mineralization encountered in the rock samples, channel samples, and drill core from McKinley contain both coarse and microscopic gold, which is associated with low to moderate levels of geochemical pathfinder elements such as silver, arsenic, copper, cobalt, nickel, and others. The McKinley Project covers an extensive area of alteration and mineralization that can be classified as an orogenic gold model, also known as quartz-carbonate vein type deposits.
EASTERN STAR PROJECT
Property Location
In 2014, NJMC acquired the Eastern Star property which consists of 11 patented lode mining claims about four miles west of Elk City in central Idaho. The property is easily accessible via improved dirt roads off of Idaho State Highway 14.
Property Ownership
NJMC acquired fee simple title to the property from Premium Exploration Inc. (“Premium”) for a purchase price of $250,818. In accordance with the note, the Company made two payments totaling $250,818 to complete the purchase. As part of the purchase agreement, an additional parcel was available to the Company with a final payment due in July 2015, but that option was not exercised by NJMC.
Property History
The Elk City Mining District is an historic gold mining region dating back to the 1860s that once supported more than 20 underground mines, including the Eastern Star, along with placer dredging operations. Modern exploration in the district by companies including Cypress-Amax, Kinross Gold, and Bema Gold has focused on near-surface bulk tonnage gold potential, while the many smaller-scale high-grade gold occurrences have largely been ignored.
In recent years, prior operator Premium collected grab samples from three separate locations, representing nearly one-half mile of mineralized trend. Of 25 grab samples, nine returned gold values greater than 16.9 gpt. Premium then drilled three core holes at Eastern Star, targeting a bulk mineable gold deposit.
Present Condition, Work Completed, and Exploration Plans
After acquiring the property in 2014, NJMC completed initial mapping and sampling programs, following up with a trenching program to help trace structures and map vein locations as there is little exposed outcrop on the property.
Company geologists identified several quartz veins that had been exploited by historic prospect pits and small shafts. Surface grab samples from these veins confirmed the widespread presence of high-grade gold within mineralized quartz vein material. Of 27 samples collected by the Company over multiple vein zones, 12 returned gold values exceeding 5.5 gpt with five of those exceeding 17.0 gpt. Individual samples from five of the zones assayed greater than 6.5 gpt gold. Two samples from a previously un-prospected area returned gold values of 53.8 gpt and 68.9 gpt. A sample from another previously un-prospected area returned 12.3 gpt gold.
As the rocks on the property are deeply weathered, the Company performed an 880-meter trenching program to access fresher rock. The channel samples intercepted notable gold mineralization including contiguous samples up to 10.4 meters of 2.25 gpt gold and 6.4 meters of 7.97 gpt gold (which included 4.3 meters of 11.34 gpt gold). Grab samples from within the trenched material returned values of up to 35.9 gpt gold.
In 2015, NJMC continued with limited mapping and sampling at Eastern Star, with the intent of extending known vein systems generating additional targets for a comprehensive core drill program. Although no significant work was performed at Eastern Star in 2016, the Company is preparing to resume exploration efforts in 2017. The Company’s exploration objective at Eastern Star is to evaluate its potential for high-grade gold-bearing quartz veins, similar to those that led to limited historic production and patenting of the mineral claims.
Eastern Star is an early-stage exploration project with no mineral reserves as recognized by the SEC.
ITEM 3.