ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
At December 31, 2002, we owned and/or managed a total of 19 timeshare resorts. Principal developmental activity which occurred during 2002 is summarized below.
CONTINUED DEVELOPMENT OF OAK N' SPRUCE RESORT. Oak N' Spruce Resort, located 134 miles west of Boston, Massachusetts, has 248 existing units. Silverleaf intends to develop approximately 216 additional units (11,232 Vacation Intervals) at this resort in the future. During 2002, we added 24 units at this resort. Our application for approximately 216 additional units was denied by local planning and zoning authorities in early 2003. In addition, a supplemental application for 75 additional units was also denied. Both of these zoning denials are on appeal. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining authorizations to build additional units at Oak N' Spruce Resort, it will materially and adversely affect our ability to develop this resort and to sustain sales of Vacation Intervals at Oak N' Spruce at existing levels.
CONTINUED DEVELOPMENT OF HOLIDAY HILLS RESORT. Holiday Hills Resort, located two miles east of Branson, Missouri, in Taney County, has 362 existing units. We intend to develop approximately 426 additional units (22,124 Vacation Intervals) at this resort. During 2002, the Company added 36 units at the resort.
CONTINUED DEVELOPMENT OF PINEY SHORES RESORT. Piney Shores Resort, located near Conroe, Texas, north of Houston, has 172 existing units. We intend to develop approximately 120 additional units (6,240 Vacation Intervals) at this resort. During 2002, we added 6 units at this resort.
CONTINUED DEVELOPMENT OF SILVERLEAF'S SEASIDE RESORT. Silverleaf's Seaside Resort, located in Galveston, Texas, has 84 existing units. We intend to develop approximately 198 additional units (10,296 Vacation Intervals) at this resort. During 2002, we added 12 units at this resort.
CONTINUED DEVELOPMENT OF HILL COUNTRY RESORT. Hill Country Resort, located near Canyon Lake in the hill country of central Texas between Austin and San Antonio, has 266 existing units. We intend to develop approximately 246 additional units (12,792 Vacation Intervals) at this resort. During 2002, we added 12 units at this resort.
CONTINUED DEVELOPMENT OF FOX RIVER RESORT. Fox River Resort, located 70 miles southwest of Chicago, in Sheridan, Illinois, has 186 existing units. We intend to develop approximately 264 additional units (13,728 Vacation Intervals) at this resort. During 2002, we added 12 units at this resort.
POSSIBLE DEVELOPMENT OF NEW RESORTS. In December 1998, we purchased 1,940 acres of undeveloped land near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, for approximately $1.9 million. The property may be developed as a Drive-to Resort (i.e., Beech Mountain Resort). We have received regulatory approval to develop 408 units (21,216 Vacation Intervals), but we have not scheduled dates for construction, completion of initial units, or commencement of marketing and sales efforts.
DISCONTINUED DEVELOPMENT OF CERTAIN RESORTS. As a result of the liquidity problems announced during 2001, we discontinued our development plans for timeshare resorts in Kansas City, Missouri, and Las Vegas, Nevada. The property in Kansas City is currently held for sale. The property in Las Vegas was sold in January 2003. All net sales proceeds were paid to our senior lenders.
FUTURE GROWTH STRATEGY
Our credit facilities limit our ability to develop new resorts. As a result, we will continue to expand our Existing Resorts by maintaining marketing, sales, and development activities at those resorts in accordance with our downsized business model. We will also continue to emphasize our secondary products, such as biennial (alternate year) intervals, to broaden our potential market with a wider price range of product. We will concentrate more on marketing to existing members, including sales of upgraded Vacation Intervals, second weeks, and existing owner referral programs.
COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES
We believe our business affords us the following competitive advantages:
CONVENIENT DRIVE-TO LOCATIONS. Our Owned Drive-to Resorts are located within a two-hour drive of a majority of our target customers' residences, which accommodates the growing demand for shorter, more frequent, close-to-home vacations. This proximity facilitates use of our Bonus Time Program, allowing Silverleaf Owners to use vacant units, subject to availability and certain limitations. We believe we are the only timeshare operator that offers customers these benefits. Silverleaf Owners can also conveniently enjoy non-lodging resort amenities year-round on a "country-club" basis.
SUBSTANTIAL INTERNAL GROWTH CAPACITY. At December 31, 2002, we had an inventory of 24,121 Vacation Intervals and a master plan to construct new units which will result in up to 95,756 additional Vacation Intervals at the Existing Resorts. Our master plan for construction of new units is contingent upon future sales at the Existing Resorts and the availability of financing, granting of governmental permits, and future land-planning and site-layout considerations.
IN-HOUSE OPERATIONS. We have in-house marketing, sales, financing, development, and property management capabilities. While we utilize outside contractors to supplement internal resources, our internal capabilities provide greater control over all phases of our operations, help maintain operating standards, and reduce overall costs.
LOWER CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATING COSTS. We have developed and generally employ standard architectural designs and operating procedures which we believe significantly reduce construction and operating expenses. Standardization and integration also allow us to rapidly develop new inventory in response to demand. Weather permitting, new units at Existing Resorts can normally be constructed on an "as needed" basis within 180 to 270 days.
CENTRALIZED PROPERTY MANAGEMENT. We presently operate all of the Existing Resorts on a centralized and collective basis with operating and maintenance costs paid from Silverleaf Owners' monthly dues. We believe that consolidation of resort operations benefits Silverleaf Owners by providing them with a uniform level of service, accommodations, and amenities on a standardized, cost-effective basis. Integration also facilitates our internal exchange program and the Bonus Time Program.
EXPERIENCED MANAGEMENT. Our senior management has extensive experience in the acquisition, development, and operation of timeshare resorts. The senior officers have an average of seventeen years of experience in the timeshare industry.
RESORTS SUMMARY
The following tables set forth certain information regarding each of the Existing Resorts at December 31, 2002, unless otherwise indicated.
EXISTING RESORTS
(a) These totals do not reflect sales of upgraded Vacation Intervals to Silverleaf Owners. In this context, a sale of an "upgraded Vacation Interval" refers to an exchange of a lower priced interval for a higher priced interval in which the Silverleaf Owner is given credit for all principal payments previously made toward the purchase of the lower priced interval. For the year ended December 31, 2002, upgrade sales at the Existing Resorts were as follows:
The average sales price for the 7,746 upgraded Vacation Intervals sold was $5,401 for the year ended December 31, 2002.
(b) Represents units included in our master plan. This plan is subject to change based upon various factors, including consumer demand, the availability of financing, grant of governmental land-use permits, and future land-planning and site layout considerations. The following chart reflects the status of certain planned units at December 31, 2002:
"Land-Use Process Pending" means that we have commenced the process which we believe is required under current law in order to obtain the necessary land-use authorizations from the applicable local governmental authority with jurisdiction, including submitting for approval any architectural drawings, preliminary plats, or other attendant items as may be required.
"Land-Use Process Complete" means either that (i) we believe that we have obtained all necessary land-use authorizations under current law from the applicable local governmental authority with jurisdiction, including the approval and filing of any required preliminary or final plat and the issuance of building permit(s), in each case to the extent applicable, or (ii) upon payment of any required filing or other fees, we believe that we will under current law obtain such necessary authorizations without further process.
(c) These totals are net of intervals received from upgrading customers and from intervals received from cancellations.
(d) Principal amenities available to Silverleaf Owners at each resort are indicated by the following symbols: B -- boating; F -- fishing; G -- golf; H -- horseback riding; M -- miniature golf; S -- swimming pool; and T -- tennis.
(e) We have management rights with respect to these resorts and presently has no ability to expand the resorts. In 2000, we discontinued plans to sell Vacation Intervals at these resorts and our costs associated with its unsold inventory of Vacation Intervals at these resorts were written off.
(f) Boating is available near the resort.
(g) Includes three units which have not been finished-out for accommodations and which are currently used for other purposes.
(h) Engineering, architectural, and construction estimates have not been completed, and we cannot be certain that we will develop these properties at the unit numbers currently projected.
FEATURES COMMON TO EXISTING RESORTS
Owned Drive-to Resorts are primarily located in rustic areas offering Silverleaf Owners a quiet, relaxing vacation environment. Furthermore, the resorts offer different vacation activities, including golf, fishing, boating, swimming, horseback riding, tennis, and archery. Owned Destination Resorts are located in or near areas with national tourist appeal. Features common to the Existing Resorts include the following:
BONUS TIME PROGRAM. Our Bonus Time Program offers Silverleaf Club members a benefit not typically enjoyed by many other timeshare owners. In addition to the right to use a unit one week per year, the Bonus Time Program allows Silverleaf Club members to use vacant units at any of our owned resorts. The Bonus Time Program is limited based on the availability of units. Silverleaf Owners who have utilized the resort less frequently are given priority to use the program and may only use an interval with an equal or lower rating than their owned Vacation Interval. We believe this program is important as many vacationers prefer shorter two to three day vacations.
YEAR-ROUND USE OF AMENITIES. Even when not using the lodging facilities, Silverleaf Owners have unlimited year-round day usage of the amenities located at the Existing Resorts, such as boating, fishing, miniature golf, tennis, swimming, or hiking, for little or no additional cost. Certain amenities, however, such as golf, horseback riding, or watercraft rentals, may require a usage fee.
EXCHANGE PRIVILEGES. Each Silverleaf Owner has certain exchange privileges which may be used on an annual basis to (i) exchange an interval for a different interval (week) at the same resort so long as the desired interval is of an equal or lower rating; or (ii) exchange an interval for the same interval (week) at any other of the Existing Resorts. These intra-company exchange rights are a convenience we provide our members as an accommodation to them, and are conditioned upon availability of the desired interval or resort. Approximately 3,164 intra-company exchanges occurred in 2002. Silverleaf Owners pay an exchange fee of $75 to Silverleaf Club for each such internal exchange. In addition, most Silverleaf Owners may join the exchange program administered by RCI for an annual fee of $89. Silverleaf Owners at Oak N' Spruce Resort may pay an annual fee of $79 to join the exchange program administered by Interval International. Both RCI and Interval International also charge an additional exchange fee for each exchange.
DEEDED OWNERSHIP. We typically sell a Vacation Interval which entitles the owner to use a specific unit for a designated one-week interval each year. The Vacation Interval purchaser receives a recorded deed which grants the purchaser a percentage interest in a specific unit for a designated week. We also sell a biennial (alternate year) Vacation Interval that allows the owner to use a unit for a one-week interval every other year with reduced dues.
MANAGEMENT CLUBS. Each of the Existing Resorts and the Existing Managed Resorts has a Club for the benefit of the timeshare owners. The Clubs operate under either Silverleaf Club or Crown Club to manage the Existing Resorts on a centralized and collective basis. We have contracted with Silverleaf Club and Crown Club to perform the supervisory, management, and maintenance functions granted by the Clubs. Costs of these operations are covered by monthly dues paid by timeshare owners to their respective Clubs together with income generated by the operation of certain amenities at each respective resort.
ON-SITE SECURITY. Each of the Resorts is patrolled by security personnel who are either employees of the Management Clubs or personnel of independent security service companies which have contracted with the Clubs.
DESCRIPTION OF TIMESHARE RESORTS OWNED AND OPERATED BY SILVERLEAF
HOLLY LAKE RESORT. Holly Lake is a family-oriented golf resort located in the Piney Woods of east Texas, approximately 105 miles east of Dallas, Texas. The timeshare portion of Holly Lake is part of a 4,300 acre mixed-use development of single-family lots and timeshare units with other third-party developers. We own approximately 2,740 acres within Holly Lake, of which approximately 2,667 acres may not be developed due to deed restrictions. At December 31, 2002, approximately 27 acres were developed. We have no future development plans.
At December 31, 2002, 130 units were completed and no additional units are planned for development. Three different types of units are offered at the resort: (i) two bedroom, two bath, wood siding, fourplexes; (ii) one bedroom, one bath, one sleeping loft, log construction duplexes; and (iii) two bedroom, two bath, log construction fourplexes. Each unit has a living room with sleeper sofa and
full kitchen. Other amenities within each unit include whirlpool tub, color television, and vaulted ceilings. Certain units include interior ceiling fans, imported ceramic tile, over-sized sliding glass doors, and rattan and pine furnishings.
Amenities at the resort include an 18-hole golf course with pro shop, 19th-hole private club, country store, indoor rodeo arena and stables, five tennis courts (four lighted), two different lakes (one with sandy swimming beach, one with boat launch for water-skiing), three outdoor swimming pools with bathhouses and pavilion, hiking/nature trails, children's playground area, two miniature golf courses, five picnic areas, activity center with grill, big screen television, game room with arcade games and pool tables, horseback trails, and activity areas for basketball, horseshoes, volleyball, shuffleboard, and archery. Silverleaf Owners can also rent canoes, bicycles, and water trikes. Homeowners in neighboring subdivisions are entitled to use the amenities at Holly Lake pursuant to easements or use agreements.
At December 31, 2002, the resort contained 6,500 Vacation Intervals, of which 1,745 intervals remained available for sale. We have no plans to build additional units. Vacation Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $7,000 to $11,800 for one-week stays. During 2002, 256 Vacation Intervals were sold.
THE VILLAGES AND LAKE O' THE WOODS RESORTS. The Villages and Lake O' The Woods are sister resorts located on the shores of Lake Palestine, approximately 100 miles east of Dallas, Texas. The Villages, located approximately five miles northwest of Lake O' The Woods, is an active sports resort popular for water-skiing and boating. Lake O' The Woods is a quiet wooded resort where Silverleaf Owners can enjoy the seclusion of dense pine forests less than two hours from the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex. The Villages is a mixed-use development of single-family lots and timeshare units, while Lake O' The Woods has been developed solely as a timeshare resort. The two resorts contain approximately 652 acres, of which approximately 379 may not be developed due to deed restrictions. At December 31, 2002, approximately 181 acres were developed and 18 acres are currently planned by the Company to be used for future development.
At December 31, 2002, 334 units were completed at The Villages and 64 units were completed at Lake O' The Woods. An additional 96 units are planned for development at The Villages and no additional units are planned for development at Lake O' The Woods. There are five different types of units at these resorts: (i) three bedroom, two and one-half bath, wood siding exterior duplexes and fourplexes (two units); (ii) two bedroom, two and one-half bath, wood siding exterior duplexes and fourplexes; (iii) two bedroom, two bath, brick and siding exterior fourplexes; (iv) two bedroom, two bath, wood and vinyl siding exterior fourplexes, sixplexes, twelveplexes and a sixteenplex; and (v) one bedroom, one bath with two-bed loft sleeping area, log construction duplexes. Amenities within each unit include full kitchen, whirlpool tub, and color television. Certain units include interior ceiling fans, ceramic tile, and/or a fireplace. "Presidents Harbor" units feature a larger, more spacious floor plan (1,255 square feet), back veranda, washer and dryer, and a more elegant decor.
Both resorts are situated on Lake Palestine, a 27,000 acre public lake. Recreational facilities and improvements at The Villages include a full service marina with convenience store, gas dock, boat launch, water-craft rentals, and covered and locked rental boat stalls; three swimming pools; two lighted tennis courts; miniature golf course; nature trails; camp sites; riding stables; soccer/softball field; children's playground; RV sites; a new 9,445 square foot activity center with theater room with wide-screen television, reading room, grill, tanning beds, pool table, sauna, and small indoor gym; and competitive sports facilities which include horseshoe pits, archery range, and shuffleboard, volleyball, and basketball courts. Silverleaf Owners at The Villages can also rent or use motor boats, paddle boats, and pontoon boats. Neighboring homeowners are also entitled to use these amenities pursuant to a use agreement.
Recreational facilities at Lake O' The Woods include swimming pool, bathhouse, lighted tennis court, a recreational beach area with picnic areas, a fishing pier on Lake Palestine, nature trails, soccer/softball field, children's playground, RV sites, an activity center with wide-screen television and pool table, horseshoe pits, archery range, miniature golf course, shuffleboard, volleyball, and basketball courts.
At December 31, 2002, The Villages contained 16,960 total Vacation Intervals, of which 4,413 remained available for sale. The Company plans to build 96 additional units at The Villages, which would yield an additional 4,992 Vacation Intervals available for sale. At December 31, 2002, Lake O' The Woods contained 3,200 total Vacation Intervals, of which 879 remained available for sale. The Company has no plans to build additional units at Lake O' The Woods. Vacation Intervals at The Villages and Lake O' The Woods are currently priced from $7,000 to $15,800 for one-week stays (and start at $5,500 for biennial intervals), while one-week "Presidents Harbor" intervals are priced at $9,400 to $20,000 depending on the value rating of the interval. During 2002, 1,221 and 251 Vacation Intervals were sold at The Villages and Lake O' The Woods, respectively.
PINEY SHORES RESORT. Piney Shores Resort is a quiet, wooded resort ideally located for day-trips from metropolitan areas in the southeastern Gulf Coast area of Texas. Piney Shores Resort is located on the shores of Lake Conroe, approximately 40 miles north of
Houston, Texas. The resort contains approximately 113 acres. At December 31, 2002, approximately 72 acres were developed and 11 acres are currently planned by the Company to be used for future development.
At December 31, 2002, 172 units were completed and 120 units are planned for development at Piney Shores Resort. All units are two bedroom, two bath units and will comfortably accommodate up to six people. Amenities include a living room with sleeper, full kitchen, whirlpool tub, color television, and interior ceiling fans. Certain "lodge-style" units feature stone fireplaces, white-washed pine wall coverings, "age-worn" paint finishes, and antique furnishings. President's Cove units feature a larger, more spacious floor plan (1255 square feet) with a back veranda, washer and dryer, and a more elegant decor.
The primary recreational amenity at the resort is Lake Conroe, a 21,000 acre public lake. Other recreational facilities and improvements available at the resort include two swimming pools and a spa, a bathhouse complete with outdoor shower and restrooms, lighted tennis court, miniature golf course, stables, horseback riding trails, children's playground, picnic areas, boat launch, beach area, 4,626-square foot activity center, 32-seat theatre room with big screen television, covered wagon rides, and facilities for horseshoes, archery, shuffleboard, and basketball.
At December 31, 2002, the resort contained 8,752 Vacation Intervals, of which 2,252 remained available for sale. We intend to build 120 additional units, which would yield an additional 6,240 Vacation Intervals available for sale. Vacation Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $7,500 to $20,000 for one-week stays (and start at $5,500 for biennial intervals). During 2002, 826 Vacation Intervals were sold.
HILL COUNTRY RESORT. Hill Country Resort is located near Canyon Lake in the hill country of central Texas between Austin and San Antonio. The resort contains approximately 110 acres. At December 31, 2002, approximately 38 acres were developed and 19 acres are currently planned by the Company to be used for future development.
At December 31, 2002, 266 units were completed and 246 units are planned for development at Hill Country Resort. Some units are single story, while certain other units are two-story structures in which the bedrooms and baths are located on the second story. Each unit contains two bedrooms, two bathrooms, living room with sleeper sofa, and full kitchen. Other amenities within each unit include whirlpool tub, color television, and interior design details such as vaulted ceilings. Certain units include interior ceiling fans, imported ceramic tile, over-sized sliding glass doors, rattan and pine furnishings, or fireplace. 122 units feature the Company's new "lodge style." 32 "Presidents Villas" units feature a larger, more spacious floor plan (1,255 square feet), back veranda, washer and dryer, and a more elegant decor.
Amenities at the resort include a 7,943-square foot activity center with electronic games, pool table, and wide-screen television, miniature golf course, a children's playground areas, barbecue and picnic area, enclosed swimming pool and heated spa, children's wading pool, tennis court, and activity areas for basketball, horseshoes, shuffleboard and sand volleyball court. Area sights and activities include water-tubing on the nearby Guadeloupe River and visiting the many tourist attractions in San Antonio, such as Sea World, The Alamo, The River Walk, and the San Antonio Zoo.
At December 31, 2002, the resort contained 13,460 Vacation Intervals, of which 2,646 remained available for sale. The Company plans to build 246 additional units, which collectively would yield 12,792 additional Vacation Intervals available for sale. Vacation Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $7,500 to $15,800 for one-week stays (and start at $5,500 for biennial intervals), while one-week "Presidents Villas" intervals are priced at $9,400 to $22,000 depending on the value rating of the interval. During 2002, 972 Vacation Intervals were sold.
OZARK MOUNTAIN RESORT. Ozark Mountain Resort is a family-oriented resort located on the shores of Table Rock Lake, which features bass fishing. The resort is located approximately 15 miles from Branson, Missouri, a family music and entertainment center, 233 miles from Kansas City, and 276 miles from St. Louis. Ozark Mountain Resort is a mixed-use development of timeshare and condominium units. At December 31, 2002, the resort contained approximately 116 acres. We have no future development plans.
At December 31, 2002, 136 units were completed and no additional units are planned for development. There are two types of units at the resort: (i) two bedroom, two bath, one-story fourplexes and (ii) two bedroom, two bath, three-story sixplexes. Each standard unit includes two large bedrooms, two bathrooms, living room with sleeper sofa, and full kitchen. Other amenities within each unit include whirlpool tub, color television, and vaulted ceilings. Certain units contain interior ceiling fans, imported ceramic tile, oversized sliding glass doors, rattan or pine furnishings, or fireplace. "Presidents View" units feature a panoramic view of Table Rock Lake, a larger, more spacious floor plan (1,255 square feet), front and back verandas, washer and dryer, and a more elegant decor.
The primary recreational amenity available at the resort is Table Rock Lake, a 43,100-acre public lake. Other recreational facilities and improvements at the resort include a swimming beach with dock, an activities center with pool table, covered boat dock
and launch ramp, olympic-sized swimming pool, lighted tennis court, nature trails, two picnic areas, playground, miniature golf course, and a competitive sports area accommodating volleyball, basketball, tetherball, horseshoes, shuffleboard, and archery. Guests can also rent or use canoes, or paddle boats. Owners of neighboring condominium units developed by the Company in the past are also entitled to use these amenities pursuant to use agreements with the Company. Similarly, owners of Vacation Intervals are entitled to use certain amenities of these condominium developments, including a wellness center featuring a small pool, hot tub, sauna, and exercise equipment.
At December 31, 2002, the resort contained 6,848 Vacation Intervals, of which 804 remained available for sale. The Company has no plans to build additional units. Vacation Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $8,500 to $13,500 for one-week stays, while one-week "Presidents View" intervals are priced at $10,000 to $22,500 depending on the value rating of the interval. During 2002, 209 Vacation Intervals were sold.
HOLIDAY HILLS RESORT. Holiday Hills Resort is a resort community located in Taney County, Missouri, two miles east of Branson, Missouri. The resort is 224 miles from Kansas City and 267 miles from St. Louis. The resort is heavily wooded by cedar, pine, and hardwood trees, and is favored by Silverleaf Owners seeking quality golf and nightly entertainment in nearby Branson. Holiday Hills Resort is a mixed-use development of single-family lots, condominiums, and timeshare units. The resort contains approximately 405 acres, including a 91-acre golf course. At December 31, 2002, approximately 296 acres were developed and 68 acres are currently planned by the Company to be used for future development.
At December 31, 2002, 362 units were completed and an additional 426 units are planned for future development. There are four types of timeshare units at this resort: (i) two bedroom, two bath, one-story fourplexes, (ii) one bedroom, one bath, with upstairs loft, log construction duplexes, (iii) two bedroom, two bath, two-story fourplexes, and (iv) two bedroom, two bath, three-story sixplexes and twelveplexes. Each unit includes a living room with sleeper sofa, full kitchen, whirlpool tub, and color television. Certain units will include a fireplace, ceiling fans, imported tile, oversized sliding glass doors, vaulted ceilings, and rattan or pine furniture. "Presidents Fairways" units feature a larger, more spacious floor plan (1,255 square feet), back veranda, washer and dryer, and a more elegant decor.
Taneycomo Lake, a popular lake for trout fishing, is approximately three miles from the resort, and Table Rock Lake is approximately ten miles from the resort. Amenities at the resort include an 18-hole golf course, tennis court, picnic areas, camp sites, basketball court, activity area which includes shuffleboard, horseshoes, and a children's playground, a 5,356 square foot clubhouse that includes a pro shop, restaurant, and meeting space, a 2,800 square foot outdoor swimming pool, and a sports pool. Lot and condominium unit owners are also entitled to use these amenities pursuant to use agreements between the Company and certain homeowners' associations.
At December 31, 2002, the resort contained 18,688 Vacation Intervals, of which 2,740 remained available for sale. The Company plans to build 426 additional units, which would yield an additional 22,124 Vacation Intervals available for sale. Vacation Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $8,500 to $16,500 for one-week stays (and start at $7,000 for biennial intervals), while one-week "Presidents Fairways" intervals are priced at $10,000 to $28,500 depending on the value rating of the interval. During 2002, 1,197 Vacation Intervals were sold.
TIMBER CREEK RESORT. Timber Creek Resort, in Desoto, Missouri, is located approximately 50 miles south of St. Louis, Missouri. The resort contains approximately 332 acres. At December 31, 2002, approximately 180 acres were developed and 6 acres are currently planned by the Company to be used for future development.
At December 31, 2002, 72 units were completed and an additional 84 units are planned for future development at Timber Creek Resort. All units are two bedroom, two bath units. Amenities within each new unit include a living room with sleeper sofa, full kitchen, whirlpool tub, and color television. Certain units include a fireplace, ceiling fans, imported ceramic tile, French doors, and rattan or pine furniture.
The primary recreational amenity available at the resort is a 40-acre fishing lake. Other amenities include a clubhouse, a five-hole par three executive golf course, swimming pool, two lighted tennis courts, themed miniature golf course, volleyball court, shuffleboard/multi-use sports court, fitness center, horseshoes, archery, a welcome center, playground, arcade, movie room, tanning bed, cedar sauna, sales and registration building, hook-ups for recreational vehicles, and boat docks. We are obligated to maintain and provide campground facilities for members of the previous owner's campground system.
At December 31, 2002, the resort contained 3,744 Vacation Intervals and 1,377 Vacation Intervals remained available for sale. We plan to build 84 additional units, which would collectively yield 4,368 additional Vacation Intervals available for sale. Vacation
Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $7,500 to $15,800 for one-week stays (and start at $5,500 for biennial intervals). During 2002, 193 Vacation Intervals were sold.
FOX RIVER RESORT. Fox River Resort, in Sheridan, Illinois, is located approximately 70 miles southwest of Chicago, Illinois. The resort contains approximately 372 acres. At December 31, 2002, approximately 156 acres were developed and 26 acres are currently planned by the Company to be used for future development.
At December 31, 2002, 186 units are completed and 264 units are planned for future development at Fox River Resort. All units are two bedroom, two bath units. Amenities within each unit include a living room with sleeper sofa, full kitchen, whirlpool tub, and color television. Certain units include ceiling fans, ceramic tile, and rattan or pine furniture.
Amenities currently available at the resort include five-hole par three executive golf course, outdoor swimming pool, clubhouse, covered pool, miniature golf course, horseback riding trails, stable and corral, welcome center, sales and registration buildings, hook-ups for recreational vehicles, a tennis court, a basketball court / seasonal ice-skating rink, shuffleboard courts, sand volleyball courts, outdoor pavilion, and playgrounds. The Company also offers winter recreational activities at this resort, including ice-skating, snowmobiling, and cross-country skiing. The Company is obligated to maintain and provide campground facilities for members of the previous owner's campground system.
At December 31, 2002, the resort contained 9,672 Vacation Intervals and 965 Vacation Intervals remained available for sale. We plan to build 264 additional units, which would collectively yield 13,728 additional Vacation Intervals available for sale. Vacation Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $7,500 to $15,800 for one-week stays (and start at $5,500 for biennial intervals). During 2002, 1,719 Vacation Intervals were sold.
OAK N' SPRUCE RESORT. In December 1997, we acquired the Oak N' Spruce Resort in the Berkshire mountains of western Massachusetts. The resort is located approximately 134 miles west of Boston, Massachusetts, and 114 miles north of New York City. Oak N' Spruce Resort is a mixed-use development which includes a hotel and timeshare units. The resort contains approximately 244 acres. At December 31, 2002, approximately 37 acres were developed and 10 acres are currently planned by the Company to be used for future development. Our application for approximately 216 additional units was denied by local authorities in early 2003. We have filed supplemental applications for fewer units. If for any reason we are unsuccessful in obtaining authorizations to build additional units at Oak N' Spruce Resort, it may materially and adversely affect our ability to develop this resort and to sustain sales of Vacation Intervals at Oak N' Spruce at existing levels.
At December 31, 2002, the resort had 248 units and the above described additional 216 units are planned for development. There are six types of existing units at the resort: (i) one-bedroom flat, (ii) one-bedroom townhouse, (iii) two-bedroom flat, (iv) two-bedroom townhouse, (v) two-bedroom, flex-time, and (vi) two-bedroom lodge style and President's style units. There is also a 21-room hotel at the resort which could be converted to timeshare use. Amenities within each new unit include a living room with sleeper sofa, full kitchen, whirlpool tub, and color television. Certain units include ceiling fans, ceramic tile, and rattan or pine furniture.
Amenities at the resort include two indoor heated swimming pools with hot tubs, an outdoor pool with sauna, health club, lounge, three-hole pitch and putt golf course, ski rentals, miniature golf, shuffleboard, basketball and tennis courts, horseshoe pits, hiking and ski trails, and an activity area for badminton. The resort is also near Beartown State Forest.
At December 31, 2002, the resort contained 12,896 Vacation Intervals, of which 1,576 remained available for sale. Subject to obtaining permission from local authorities, we plan to build 216 additional "lodge-style" units, which would yield an additional 11,232 Vacation Intervals available for sale. Vacation Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $7,650 to $25,000 for one-week stays (and start at $4,700 for biennial intervals). During 2002, 1,269 Vacation Intervals were sold.
APPLE MOUNTAIN RESORT. Apple Mountain Resort, in Clarkesville, Georgia, is located approximately 125 miles north of Atlanta, Georgia. The resort is situated on 285 acres of beautiful open pastures and rolling hills, with 150 acres being the resort's golf course. At December 31, 2002, approximately 191 acres were developed and 16 acres are currently planned by the Company to be used for future development.
At December 31, 2002, 60 units are completed and 192 units are planned for development at Apple Mountain Resort. The "Lodge Get-A-Way" units were the first units developed. Each unit is approximately 824 square feet with all units being two bedrooms, two full baths. Amenities within each unit include a living room with sleeper sofa, full kitchen, whirlpool tub, and color television. Certain units include ceiling fans, imported ceramic tile, electronic door locks, and rattan or pine furniture.
Amenities at the resort include a 9,445 square foot administration building and activity center featuring a theatre room with a wide screen television, a member services building, pool tables, arcade games, and snack area. Other amenities at the resort include two tennis courts, swimming pool, shuffleboard, miniature golf course, and volleyball and basketball courts. This resort is located in the Blue Ridge Mountains and offers accessibility to many other outdoor recreational activities, including Class 5 white water rapids.
The primary recreational amenity available to the resort is an established 18-hole golf course situated on approximately 150 acres of open fairways and rolling hills. Elevation of the course is 1,530 feet at the lowest point and 1,600 feet at the highest point. The course is designed with approximately 104,000 square feet of bent grass greens. The course's tees total approximately 2 acres, fairways total approximately 24 acres, and primary roughs total approximately 29 acres, all covered with TIF 419 Bermuda. The balance of grass totals approximately 95 acres and is covered with Fescue. The course has 19 sand bunkers totaling 19,800 square feet and there are approximately seven miles of cart paths. Lining the course are apple orchards totaling approximately four acres, with white pine roughs along twelve of the fairways. The course has a five-acre irrigation lake and a pond of approximately 900 square feet located on the fifteenth hole. The driving range covers approximately nine acres and has 20,000 square feet of tee area covered in TIF 419 Bermuda. The pro shop offers a full line of golfing accessories and equipment. There is also a golf professional on site to offer lessons and to plan events for the club.
At December 31, 2002, the resort contained 3,120 Vacation Intervals, of which 947 remained available for sale. We plan to build 192 additional "lodge-style" units, which would yield an additional 9,984 Vacation Intervals available for sale. Vacation Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $7,500 to $15,800 for one-week stays (and start at $5,500 for biennial intervals). During 2002, 27 Vacation Intervals were sold.
SILVERLEAF'S SEASIDE RESORT. Silverleaf's Seaside Resort is located in Galveston, Texas, approximately 50 miles south of Houston, Texas. The resort contains approximately 87 acres. At December 31, 2002, approximately 45 acres were developed and 42 acres are currently planned by the Company to be used for future development.
At December 31, 2002, the resort had 84 units and an additional 198 are planned for development. The two bedroom, two bath units are situated in three-story twelveplex buildings. Amenities within each unit include two large bedrooms, two bathrooms (one with a whirlpool tub), living room with sleeper sofa, full kitchen, color television, and electronic door locks.
With 635 feet of beachfront, the primary amenity at the resort is the Gulf of Mexico. Other amenities include a lodge with kitchen, tennis court, swimming pool, sand volleyball court, playground, picnic pavilion, horseshoes, and shuffleboard. We are obligated to maintain and provide campground facilities for members of the previous owner's campground system.
At December 31, 2002, the resort contained 4,368 Vacation Intervals of which 1,169 remained available for sale. We plan to build 198 additional units which would yield an additional 10,296 Vacation Intervals for sale. Vacation Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $8,500 to $23,500 for one-week stays. During 2002, 77 Vacation Intervals were sold.
DESCRIPTION OF TIMESHARE RESORTS MANAGED BY THE COMPANY
We acquired the management rights and an inventory of unsold Vacation Intervals from Crown Resort Co., LLC in May 1998. We manage these resorts for a fee. We have ceased all sales and development of these resorts.
ALPINE BAY RESORT. Alpine Bay Resort is located in Talledega County, Alabama, near Lake Logan Martin and is approximately 50 miles east of Birmingham. The resort contains 54 units and includes a golf course, pro shop lounge, outdoor pool, and tennis courts.
HICKORY HILLS RESORT. Hickory Hills is located in Jackson County, Mississippi, near the Pascagoula River and is approximately 20 miles east of Biloxi. The resort contains 80 units and has a golf course, restaurant/lounge, outdoor pool, clubhouse, fitness center, miniature golf course, tennis courts, and playground.
BEECH MOUNTAIN LAKES RESORT. Beech Mountain Lakes is located in Butler Township, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania and is approximately 30 miles south of Wilkes Barre-Scranton. The resort contains 54 units and has a restaurant/lounge, indoor pool/sauna, clubhouse, fitness center and tennis courts.
TREASURE LAKE RESORT. Treasure Lake is located in Sandy Township, Clearfield County, Pennsylvania and is approximately 160 miles northeast of Pittsburgh. The resort contains 145 units and has two golf courses, two lakes, four beaches, campground, two restaurant/lounges, indoor pool/sauna, outdoor pool, clubhouse, four playgrounds, tennis courts, and pontoon boat.
FOXWOOD HILLS RESORT. Foxwood Hills is located in Oconee County, South Carolina near Lake Hartwell and is approximately 100 miles northeast of Atlanta. The resort contains 114 units and has a golf course, restaurant/lounge, indoor pool/sauna, outdoor pool, clubhouse, miniature golf course, tennis courts, and playground.
TANSI RESORT. Tansi Resort is located in Cumberland County, Tennessee, and is approximately 75 miles west of Knoxville. The resort contains 124 units and has a golf course, restaurant/lounge, indoor pool/sauna, outdoor pool, clubhouse, fitness center, miniature golf course, tennis courts, and playground.
WESTWIND MANOR RESORT. Westwind Manor is located in Wise County, Texas, on Lake Bridgeport and is approximately 65 miles northwest of the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex. The resort contains 37 units and has a golf course, restaurant/lounge, outdoor pool, clubhouse, miniature golf course, tennis courts, and playground.
POTENTIAL NEW RESORT
BEECH MOUNTAIN RESORT. In December 1998, we acquired 1,998 acres of undeveloped land near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, which could be developed as a Drive-to Resort. The primary recreational amenity available at this site is a fishing lake. We have received regulatory approval to develop 408 units, which would yield 21,216 Vacation Intervals for sale. We have not scheduled target dates for construction, completion of initial units, or commencement of marketing and sales efforts for this location.
ITEM 3.