ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
At December 31, 2004, we owned a total of 12 timeshare resorts. Each of these resorts was encumbered at December 31, 2004 due to inventory from each being pledged as collateral under our inventory credit facilities with our senior lenders. See Footnote 8 - Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further explanation. Principal developmental activity which occurred during 2004 and future plans are summarized below.
Continued Development of The Villages Resort. The Villages Resort, located approximately 100 miles east of Dallas, Texas, has 334 existing units. Silverleaf intends to develop approximately 96 additional units (4,992 Vacation Intervals) at this resort in the future. During 2004, we did not add units at this resort.
Continued Development of Piney Shores Resort. Piney Shores Resort, located near Conroe, Texas, north of Houston, has 178 existing units. We intend to develop approximately 114 additional units (5,928 Vacation Intervals) at this resort. During 2004, we added six units at this resort.
Continued Development of Hill Country Resort. Hill Country Resort, located near Canyon Lake in the hill country of central Texas between Austin and San Antonio, has 278 existing units. We intend to develop approximately 234 additional units (12,168 Vacation Intervals) at this resort. During 2004, we did not add units at this resort.
Continued Development of Timber Creek Resort. Timber Creek Resort, located in Desoto, Missouri, has 72 existing units. We intend to develop approximately 84 additional units (4,368 Vacation Intervals) at this resort. During 2004, we did not add units at this resort.
Continued Development of Fox River Resort. Fox River Resort, located 70 miles southwest of Chicago, in Sheridan, Illinois, has 198 existing units. We intend to develop approximately 252 additional units (13,104 Vacation Intervals) at this resort. During 2004, we did not add units at this resort.
Continued Development of Apple Mountain Resort. Apple Mountain Resort, located approximately 125 miles north of Atlanta, Georgia, has 72 existing units. We intend to develop approximately 180 additional units (9,360 Vacation Intervals) at this resort. During 2004, we added 12 units at this resort.
Continued Development of Holiday Hills Resort. Holiday Hills Resort, located two miles east of Branson, Missouri, in Taney County, has 392 existing units. We intend to develop approximately 396 additional units (20,564 Vacation Intervals) at this resort. During 2004, we added 12 units at this resort.
Continued Development of Oak N’ Spruce Resort. Oak N’ Spruce Resort, located 134 miles west of Boston, Massachusetts, has 272 existing units. Silverleaf intends to develop approximately 78 additional units (4,056 Vacation Intervals) at this resort in the future. During 2004, we added 12 units at this resort.
Continued Development of Silverleaf’s Seaside Resort. Silverleaf’s Seaside Resort, located in Galveston, Texas, has 84 existing units. We intend to develop approximately 198 additional units (10,296 Vacation Intervals) at this resort. During 2004, we did not add units at this resort.
Acquisition of Orlando Breeze. In October 2004, we completed the acquisition of a 4.8 acre tract of land located in Davenport, Florida, just outside Orlando, Florida, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $6.0 million. The site, formerly known as the Villas at Polo Park, is near the major Florida tourist attractions of Walt Disney World, Sea World, and Universal Studios. The property is comprised of 48 two and three bedroom units and provides resort amenities such as a heated outdoor swimming pool with whirlpool, fitness center, arcade, playground, sand volleyball and basketball courts. Our public offering statement filed with the Florida Bureau of Standards and Registrations was approved in February 2005, granting us sales approval for 16 units encompassing 832 one-week Vacation Intervals. We plan to seek approval to sell the remaining 32 units, encompassing 1,664 one-week Vacation Intervals in the future. We also intend to develop approximately 24 additional units (1,248 Vacation Intervals) at this resort in the future.
As of December 31, 2004, we had construction commitments of approximately $9.6 million.
In December 1998, we purchased 1,940 acres of undeveloped land near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, for approximately $1.9 million. The property was intended to be developed as a Drive-to Resort (i.e., Beech Mountain Resort). We received regulatory approval to develop 408 units (21,216 Vacation Intervals), but we did not schedule dates for construction, completion of initial units, or commencement of marketing and sales efforts. In 2003, we determined that we would not develop this property as initially planned.
Future Growth Strategy
Our credit facilities limit our ability to expand our resort system beyond a limited amount of development, as shown in the business model. As a result, we will continue to develop new or existing resorts within the limitations set forth in the business model by maintaining marketing, sales, and development activities at those resorts in accordance with our current business model. We will also continue to emphasize our secondary products, such as biennial (alternate year) intervals, to broaden our potential market with a wider price range of product. We will concentrate more on marketing to existing members, including sales of upgraded Vacation Intervals, second weeks, and existing owner referral programs.
Competitive Advantages
We believe our business affords us the following competitive advantages:
Convenient Drive-to Locations. Our Drive-to Resorts are located within a two-hour drive of a majority of our target customers’ residences, which accommodates the growing demand for shorter, more frequent, close-to-home vacations. This proximity facilitates use of our Bonus Time Program, allowing Silverleaf Owners to use vacant units, subject to availability and certain limitations. We believe we are the only timeshare operator that offers customers these benefits. Silverleaf Owners can also conveniently enjoy non-lodging resort amenities year-round on a “country-club” type basis.
Substantial Internal Growth Capacity. At December 31, 2004, we had an inventory of 22,857 Vacation Intervals and a master plan to construct new units which will result in up to 84,836 additional Vacation Intervals at the Existing Resorts. Our master plan for construction of new units is contingent upon future sales at the Existing Resorts and the availability of financing, granting of governmental permits, and future land-planning and site-layout considerations.
In-House Operations. We have in-house marketing, sales, financing, development, and property management capabilities. While we utilize outside contractors to supplement internal resources, our internal capabilities provide greater control over all phases of our operations, help maintain operating standards, and reduce overall costs.
Lower Construction and Operating Costs. We have developed and generally employ standard architectural designs and operating procedures which we believe significantly reduce construction and operating expenses. Standardization and integration also allow us to rapidly develop new inventory in response to demand. Weather permitting, new units at Existing Resorts can normally be constructed on an “as needed” basis within 180 to 270 days.
Centralized Property Management. We presently operate all of the Existing Resorts on a centralized and collective basis with operating and maintenance costs paid from Silverleaf Owners’ monthly dues. We believe that consolidation of resort operations benefits Silverleaf Owners by providing them with a uniform level of service, accommodations, and amenities on a standardized, cost-effective basis. Integration also facilitates our internal exchange program and the Bonus Time Program.
Experienced Management. Our senior management has extensive experience in the acquisition, development, and operation of timeshare resorts. The senior officers have an average of nineteen years of experience in the timeshare industry.
Resorts Summary
The following tables set forth certain information regarding each of the Existing Resorts at December 31, 2004, unless otherwise indicated.
Existing Resorts
In February 2005, we obtained approval to operate a fifth destination resort, which was acquired in October 2004. Information for this resort is as follows:
(a) These totals do not reflect sales of upgraded Vacation Intervals to existing Silverleaf Owners. In this context, a sale of an “upgraded Vacation Interval” refers to an exchange of a lower priced interval for a higher priced interval in which the Silverleaf Owner is given credit for all principal payments previously made toward the purchase of the lower priced interval. For the year ended December 31, 2004, upgrade sales at the Existing Resorts were as follows:
The average sales price for the 4,088 upgraded Vacation Intervals sold was $6,928 for the year ended December 31, 2004.
(b) Represents units included in our master plan. This plan is subject to change based upon various factors, including consumer demand, the availability of financing, grant of governmental land-use permits, and future land-planning and site layout considerations. The following chart reflects the status of certain planned units at December 31, 2004:
“Land-Use Process Pending” means that we have commenced the process which we believe is required under current law in order to obtain the necessary land-use authorizations from the applicable local governmental authority with jurisdiction, including submitting for approval any architectural drawings, preliminary plats, or other attendant items as may be required.
“Land-Use Process Complete” means either that (i) we believe that we have obtained all necessary land-use authorizations under current law from the applicable local governmental authority with jurisdiction, including the approval and filing of any required preliminary or final plat and the issuance of building permit(s), in each case to the extent applicable, or (ii) upon payment of any required filing or other fees, we believe that we will under current law obtain such necessary authorizations without further process.
(c) These totals are net of intervals received from upgrading customers and from intervals received from cancellations.
(d) Principal amenities available to Silverleaf Owners at each resort are indicated by the following symbols: B - boating; F - fishing; G - golf; H - horseback riding; M - miniature golf; S - swimming pool; and T - tennis.
(e) Boating is available near the resort.
(f) Includes three units which have not been finished-out for accommodations and which are currently used for other purposes.
(g) Engineering, architectural, and construction estimates have not been completed, and we cannot be certain that we will develop these properties at the unit numbers currently projected.
Features Common To Existing Resorts
Drive-to Resorts are primarily located in rustic areas offering Silverleaf Owners a quiet, relaxing vacation environment. Furthermore, the resorts offer different vacation activities, including golf, fishing, boating, swimming, horseback riding, tennis, and archery. Destination Resorts are located in or near areas with national tourist appeal. Features common to the Existing Resorts include the following:
Bonus Time Program. Silverleaf Club’s Bonus Time Program offers Silverleaf Club members a benefit not typically enjoyed by any other timeshare owners. In addition to the right to use a unit one week per year, the Bonus Time Program allows all Silverleaf Club members, who are current on their dues and installment payments, to use vacant units for up to three nights at a time at any of our owned resorts. Sunday through Thursday night stays are currently without charge, while Friday through Saturday stays presently cost $39.95 per night payable to Silverleaf Club. The Bonus Time Program is limited based on the availability of units. Availability is created when a Silverleaf Owner does not use his or her owned week. Silverleaf Owners who have utilized the resort less frequently are given priority to use the program and may only use an interval with an equal or lower rating than their owned Vacation Interval. We believe this program is important as many vacationers prefer shorter two to three day vacations. Owners of unused intervals that are utilized by the Bonus Time Program are not compensated other than by their participation in the Bonus Time Program.
Year-Round Use of Amenities. Even when not using the lodging facilities, Silverleaf Owners have unlimited year-round day usage of the amenities located at the Existing Resorts, such as boating, fishing, miniature golf, tennis, swimming, or hiking, for little or no additional cost. Certain amenities, however, such as golf, horseback riding, or watercraft rentals, may require a usage fee.
Exchange Privileges. Each Silverleaf Owner has certain exchange privileges which may be used on an annual basis to (i) exchange an interval for a different interval (week) at the same resort so long as the desired interval is of an equal or lower rating; or (ii) exchange an interval for the same interval (week) at any other of the Existing Resorts. These intra-company exchange rights are a convenience we provide our members as an accommodation to them, and are conditioned upon availability of the desired interval or resort. Approximately 3,269 intra-company exchanges occurred in 2004. Silverleaf Owners pay an exchange fee of $75 to Silverleaf Club for each such internal exchange. In addition, most Silverleaf Owners may join the exchange program administered by RCI for an annual fee of $89. Our new destination resort in Florida, Orlando Breeze, is not under contract with RCI; however it is under contract with Interval International, Inc., a competitor of RCI.
Deeded Ownership. We typically sell a Vacation Interval which entitles the owner to use a specific unit for a designated one-week interval each year. The Vacation Interval purchaser receives a recorded deed which grants the purchaser a percentage interest in a specific unit for a designated week. We also sell a biennial (alternate year) Vacation Interval that allows the owner to use a unit for a one-week interval every other year with reduced dues.
Management Club. Each of the Existing Resorts has a Club for the benefit of the timeshare owners. At December 31, 2004, the Clubs operate under Silverleaf Club to manage the Existing Resorts on a centralized and collective basis. We have contracted with Silverleaf Club to perform the supervisory, management, and maintenance functions granted by the Clubs. Costs of these operations are covered by monthly dues paid by timeshare owners to their respective Clubs together with income generated by the operation of certain amenities at each respective resort. Our new destination resort in Florida, Orlando Breeze, has its own club which will be operated independently of Silverleaf Club.
On-Site Security. Each of the Resorts is patrolled by security personnel who are either employees of the Management Club or personnel of independent security service companies which have contracted with the Clubs.
Description Of Timeshare Resorts Owned and Operated By Silverleaf
Drive-to Resorts
Holly Lake Resort. Holly Lake is a family-oriented golf resort located in the Piney Woods of east Texas, approximately 105 miles east of Dallas, Texas. The timeshare portion of Holly Lake is part of a 4,300 acre mixed-use development of single-family lots and timeshare units with other third-party developers. We own approximately 1,206 acres within Holly Lake, of which approximately 1,133 acres may not be developed due to deed restrictions. At December 31, 2004, approximately 27 acres were developed. We have no future development plans.
At December 31, 2004, 130 units were completed and no additional units are planned for development. Three different types of units are offered at the resort: (i) two bedroom, two bath, vinyl siding, fourplexes; (ii) one bedroom, one bath, one sleeping loft, log construction duplexes; and (iii) two bedroom, two bath, log construction fourplexes. Each unit has a living room with sleeper sofa and full kitchen. Other amenities within each unit include whirlpool tub, color television, and vaulted ceilings. Certain units include interior ceiling fans, imported ceramic tile, over-sized sliding glass doors, and rattan and pine furnishings.
Amenities at the resort include an 18-hole golf course with pro shop, 19th-hole private club, country store, indoor rodeo arena and stables, five tennis courts (four lighted), two different lakes (one with sandy swimming beach, one with boat launch for water-skiing), three outdoor swimming pools with bathhouses and pavilion, hiking/nature trails, children’s playground area, two miniature golf courses, five picnic areas, activity center with grill, big screen television, game room with arcade games and pool tables, horseback trails, and activity areas for basketball, horseshoes, volleyball, shuffleboard, and archery. Silverleaf Owners can also rent canoes, bicycles, and water trikes. Homeowners in neighboring subdivisions are entitled to use the amenities at Holly Lake pursuant to easements or use agreements.
At December 31, 2004, the resort contained 6,500 Vacation Intervals, of which 1,987 intervals remained available for sale. We have no plans to build additional units. Vacation Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $7,000 to $12,300 for one-week stays. During 2004, 237 Vacation Intervals were sold.
The Villages and Lake O’ The Woods Resorts. The Villages and Lake O’ The Woods are sister resorts located on the shores of Lake Palestine, approximately 100 miles east of Dallas, Texas. The Villages, located approximately five miles northwest of Lake O’ The Woods, is an active sports resort popular for water-skiing and boating. Lake O’ The Woods is a quiet wooded resort where Silverleaf Owners can enjoy the seclusion of dense pine forests less than two hours from the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex. The Villages is a mixed-use development of single-family lots and timeshare units, while Lake O’ The Woods has been developed solely as a timeshare resort. The two resorts contain approximately 652 acres, of which approximately 379 may not be developed due to deed restrictions. At December 31, 2004, approximately 181 acres were developed and 18 acres are currently planned by the Company to be used for future development.
At December 31, 2004, 334 units were completed at The Villages and 64 units were completed at Lake O’ The Woods. An additional 96 units are planned for development at The Villages and no additional units are planned for development at Lake O’ The Woods. There are five different types of units at these resorts: (i) three bedroom, two and one-half bath, wood siding exterior duplexes and fourplexes (two units); (ii) two bedroom, two and one-half bath, wood siding exterior duplexes and fourplexes; (iii) two bedroom, two bath, brick and siding exterior fourplexes; (iv) two bedroom, two bath, wood and vinyl siding exterior fourplexes, sixplexes, twelveplexes and a sixteenplex; and (v) one bedroom, one bath with two-bed loft sleeping area, log construction duplexes. Amenities within each unit include full kitchen, whirlpool tub, and color television. Certain units include interior ceiling fans, ceramic tile, and/or a fireplace. “Presidents Harbor” units feature a larger, more spacious floor plan (1,255 square feet), back veranda, washer and dryer, and a more elegant decor.
Both resorts are situated on Lake Palestine, a 27,000 acre public lake. Recreational facilities and improvements at The Villages include a full service marina with convenience store, gas dock, boat launch, water-craft rentals, and covered and locked rental boat stalls; three swimming pools; two lighted tennis courts; miniature golf course; nature trails; camp sites; riding stables; soccer/softball field; children’s playground; RV sites; a new 9,445 square foot activity center with theater room with wide-screen television, reading room, grill, tanning beds, pool table, sauna, and small indoor gym; and competitive sports facilities which include horseshoe pits, archery range, and shuffleboard, volleyball, and basketball courts. Silverleaf Owners at The Villages can also rent or use motor boats, paddle boats, and pontoon boats. Neighboring homeowners are also entitled to use these amenities pursuant to a use agreement.
Recreational facilities at Lake O’ The Woods include swimming pool, bathhouse, lighted tennis court, a recreational beach area with picnic areas, a fishing pier on Lake Palestine, nature trails, soccer/softball field, children’s playground, RV sites, an activity center with wide-screen television and pool table, horseshoe pits, archery range, miniature golf course, shuffleboard, volleyball, and basketball courts.
At December 31, 2004, The Villages contained 16,960 total Vacation Intervals, of which 5,383 remained available for sale. The Company plans to build 96 additional units at The Villages, which would yield an additional 4,992 Vacation Intervals available for sale. At December 31, 2004, Lake O’ The Woods contained 3,200 total Vacation Intervals, of which 1,079 remained available for sale. The Company has no plans to build additional units at Lake O’ The Woods. Vacation Intervals at The Villages and Lake O’ The Woods are currently priced from $7,000 to $16,300 for one-week stays (and start at $6,250 for biennial intervals), while one-week “Presidents Harbor” intervals are priced at $9,900 to $22,500 depending on the value rating of the interval. During 2004, 1,360 and 349 Vacation Intervals were sold at The Villages and Lake O’ The Woods, respectively.
Piney Shores Resort. Piney Shores Resort is a quiet, wooded resort ideally located for day-trips from metropolitan areas in the southeastern Gulf Coast area of Texas. Piney Shores Resort is located on the shores of Lake Conroe, approximately 40 miles north of Houston, Texas. The resort contains approximately 113 acres. At December 31, 2004, approximately 72 acres were developed and 11 acres are currently planned by the Company to be used for future development.
At December 31, 2004, 178 units were completed and 114 units are planned for development at Piney Shores Resort. All units are two bedroom, two bath units and will comfortably accommodate up to six people. Amenities include a living room with sleeper, full kitchen, whirlpool tub, color television, and interior ceiling fans. Certain “lodge-style” units feature stone fireplaces, white-washed pine wall coverings, “age-worn” paint finishes, and antique furnishings. “Presidents Cove” units feature a larger, more spacious floor plan (1255 square feet) with a back veranda, washer and dryer, and a more elegant décor.
The primary recreational amenity at the resort is Lake Conroe, a 21,000 acre public lake. Other recreational facilities and improvements available at the resort include two swimming pools and a spa, a bathhouse complete with outdoor shower and restrooms, lighted tennis court, miniature golf course, stables, horseback riding trails, children’s playground, picnic areas, boat launch, beach area, 4,626-square foot activity center, 32-seat theatre room with big screen television, covered wagon rides, and facilities for horseshoes, archery, shuffleboard, and basketball.
At December 31, 2004, the resort contained 9,064 Vacation Intervals, of which 3,056 remained available for sale. We intend to build 114 additional units, which would yield an additional 5,928 Vacation Intervals available for sale. Vacation Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $7,000 to $16,300 for one-week stays (and start at $6,250 for biennial intervals), while one-week “Presidents Cove” intervals are priced at $9,900 to $22,500 depending on the value rating of the interval. During 2004, 866 Vacation Intervals were sold.
Hill Country Resort. Hill Country Resort is located near Canyon Lake in the hill country of central Texas between Austin and San Antonio. The resort contains approximately 110 acres. At December 31, 2004, approximately 38 acres were developed and 19 acres are currently planned by the Company to be used for future development.
At December 31, 2004, 278 units were completed and 234 units are planned for development at Hill Country Resort. Some units are single story, while certain other units are two-story structures in which the bedrooms and baths are located on the second story. Each unit contains two bedrooms, two bathrooms, living room with sleeper sofa, and full kitchen. Other amenities within each unit include whirlpool tub, color television, and interior design details such as vaulted ceilings. Certain units include interior ceiling fans, imported ceramic tile, over-sized sliding glass doors, rattan and pine furnishings, or fireplace. 122 units feature the Company’s new “lodge style.” 44 “Presidents Villas” units feature a larger, more spacious floor plan (1,255 square feet), back veranda, washer and dryer, and a more elegant decor.
Amenities at the resort include a 7,943-square foot activity center with electronic games, pool table, and wide-screen television, miniature golf course, a children’s playground areas, barbecue and picnic area, enclosed swimming pool and heated spa, children’s wading pool, tennis court, and activity areas for basketball, horseshoes, shuffleboard and sand volleyball court. Area sights and activities include water-tubing on the nearby Guadeloupe River and visiting the many tourist attractions in San Antonio, such as Sea World, The Alamo, The River Walk, Fiesta Texas, and the San Antonio Zoo.
At December 31, 2004, the resort contained 14,084 Vacation Intervals, of which 2,205 remained available for sale. The Company plans to build 234 additional units, which collectively would yield 12,168 additional Vacation Intervals available for sale. Vacation Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $7,000 to $16,300 for one-week stays (and start at $6,250 for biennial intervals), while one-week “Presidents Villas” intervals are priced at $9,900 to $23,500 depending on the value rating of the interval. During 2004, 1,823 Vacation Intervals were sold.
Timber Creek Resort. Timber Creek Resort, in Desoto, Missouri, is located approximately 50 miles south of St. Louis, Missouri. The resort contains approximately 332 acres. At December 31, 2004, approximately 180 acres were developed and 6 acres are currently planned by the Company to be used for future development.
At December 31, 2004, 72 units were completed and an additional 84 units are planned for future development at Timber Creek Resort. All units are two bedroom, two bath units. Amenities within each new unit include a living room with sleeper sofa, full kitchen, whirlpool tub, and color television. Certain units include a fireplace, ceiling fans, imported ceramic tile, French doors, and rattan or pine furniture.
The primary recreational amenity available at the resort is a 40-acre fishing lake. Other amenities include a clubhouse, a five-hole par three executive golf course, swimming pool, two lighted tennis courts, themed miniature golf course, volleyball court,
shuffleboard/multi-use sports court, fitness center, horseshoes, archery, a welcome center, playground, arcade, movie room, tanning bed, cedar sauna, sales and registration building, hook-ups for recreational vehicles, and boat docks. We are obligated to maintain and provide campground facilities for members of the previous owner’s campground system.
At December 31, 2004, the resort contained 3,744 Vacation Intervals and 1,143 Vacation Intervals remained available for sale. We plan to build 84 additional units, which would collectively yield 4,368 additional Vacation Intervals available for sale. Vacation Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $8,000 to $16,300 for one-week stays (and start at $6,250 for biennial intervals). During 2004, 940 Vacation Intervals were sold.
Fox River Resort. Fox River Resort, in Sheridan, Illinois, is located approximately 70 miles southwest of Chicago, Illinois. The resort contains approximately 372 acres. At December 31, 2004, approximately 156 acres were developed and 26 acres are currently planned by the Company to be used for future development.
At December 31, 2004, 198 units are completed and 252 units are planned for future development at Fox River Resort. All units are two bedroom, two bath units. Amenities within each unit include a living room with sleeper sofa, full kitchen, whirlpool tub, and color television. Certain units include ceiling fans, ceramic tile, and rattan or pine furniture. “Presidents Lakeside” units feature a larger, more spacious floor (1,288 square feet) with a back veranda, washer and dryer, and a more elegant decor.
Amenities currently available at the resort include five-hole par three executive golf course, outdoor swimming pool, clubhouse, covered pool, miniature golf course, horseback riding trails, stable and corral, welcome center, sales and registration buildings, hook-ups for recreational vehicles, a tennis court, a basketball court / seasonal ice-skating rink, shuffleboard courts, sand volleyball courts, outdoor pavilion, and playgrounds. The Company also offers winter recreational activities at this resort, including ice-skating, snowmobiling, and cross-country skiing. The Company is obligated to maintain and provide campground facilities for members of the previous owner’s campground system.
At December 31, 2004, the resort contained 10,296 Vacation Intervals and 1,747 Vacation Intervals remained available for sale. We plan to build 252 additional units, which would collectively yield 13,104 additional Vacation Intervals available for sale. Vacation Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $8,000 to $16,300 for one-week stays (and start at $6,250 for biennial intervals), while one-week “Presidents Lakeside” intervals are priced at $9,900 to $24,000 depending on the value rating of the interval. During 2004, 1,157 Vacation Intervals were sold.
Apple Mountain Resort. Apple Mountain Resort, in Clarkesville, Georgia, is located approximately 125 miles north of Atlanta, Georgia. The resort is situated on 285 acres of beautiful open pastures and rolling hills, with 150 acres being the resort’s golf course. At December 31, 2004, approximately 191 acres were developed and 16 acres are currently planned by the Company to be used for future development.
At December 31, 2004, 72 units are completed and 180 units are planned for development at Apple Mountain Resort. The “lodge-style” units were the first units developed. Each unit is approximately 824 square feet with all units being two bedrooms, two full baths. Amenities within each unit include a living room with sleeper sofa, full kitchen, whirlpool tub, and color television. Certain units include ceiling fans, imported ceramic tile, electronic door locks, and rattan or pine furniture.
Amenities at the resort include a 9,445 square foot administration building and activity center featuring a theatre room with a wide screen television, a member services building, pool tables, arcade games, and snack area. Other amenities at the resort include two tennis courts, swimming pool, shuffleboard, miniature golf course, and volleyball and basketball courts. This resort is located in the Blue Ridge Mountains and offers accessibility to many other outdoor recreational activities, including Class 5 white water rapids.
The primary recreational amenity available to the resort is an established 18-hole golf course situated on approximately 150 acres of open fairways and rolling hills. Elevation of the course is 1,530 feet at the lowest point and 1,600 feet at the highest point. The course is designed with approximately 104,000 square feet of bent grass greens. The course’s tees total approximately 2 acres, fairways total approximately 24 acres, and primary roughs total approximately 29 acres, all covered with TIF 419 Bermuda. The balance of grass totals approximately 95 acres and is covered with Fescue. The course has 19 sand bunkers totaling 19,800 square feet and there are approximately seven miles of cart paths. Lining the course are apple orchards totaling approximately four acres, with white pine roughs along twelve of the fairways. The course has a five-acre irrigation lake and a pond of approximately 900 square feet located on the fifteenth hole. The driving range covers approximately nine acres and has 20,000 square feet of tee area covered in TIF 419 Bermuda. The pro shop offers a full line of golfing accessories and equipment. There is also a golf professional on site to offer lessons and to plan events for the club.
At December 31, 2004, the resort contained 3,744 Vacation Intervals, of which 2,263 remained available for sale. We plan to build 180 additional “lodge-style” units, which would yield an additional 9,360 Vacation Intervals available for sale. Vacation
Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $8,000 to $16,300 for one-week stays (and start at $6,250 for biennial intervals). During 2004, 6 Vacation Intervals were sold.
Destination Resorts
Ozark Mountain Resort. Ozark Mountain Resort is a family-oriented resort located on the shores of Table Rock Lake, which features bass fishing. The resort is located approximately 15 miles from Branson, Missouri, a family music and entertainment center, 233 miles from Kansas City, and 276 miles from St. Louis. Ozark Mountain Resort is a mixed-use development of timeshare and condominium units. At December 31, 2004, the resort contained approximately 116 acres. We have no future development plans.
At December 31, 2004, 136 units were completed and no additional units are planned for development. There are two types of units at the resort: (i) two bedroom, two bath, one-story fourplexes and (ii) two bedroom, two bath, three-story sixplexes. Each standard unit includes two large bedrooms, two bathrooms, living room with sleeper sofa, and full kitchen. Other amenities within each unit include whirlpool tub, color television, and vaulted ceilings. Certain units contain interior ceiling fans, imported ceramic tile, oversized sliding glass doors, rattan or pine furnishings, or fireplace. “Presidents View” units feature a panoramic view of Table Rock Lake, a larger, more spacious floor plan (1,255 square feet), front and back verandas, washer and dryer, and a more elegant decor.
The primary recreational amenity available at the resort is Table Rock Lake, a 43,100-acre public lake. Other recreational facilities and improvements at the resort include a swimming beach with dock, an activities center with pool table, covered boat dock and launch ramp, olympic-sized swimming pool, lighted tennis court, nature trails, two picnic areas, playground, miniature golf course, and a competitive sports area accommodating volleyball, basketball, tetherball, horseshoes, shuffleboard, and archery. Guests can also rent or use canoes, or paddle boats. Owners of neighboring condominium units developed by the Company in the past are also entitled to use these amenities pursuant to use agreements with the Company. Similarly, owners of Vacation Intervals are entitled to use certain amenities of these condominium developments, including a wellness center featuring a small pool, hot tub, sauna, and exercise equipment.
At December 31, 2004, the resort contained 6,848 Vacation Intervals, of which 768 remained available for sale. The Company has no plans to build additional units. Vacation Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $9,500 to $17,000 for one-week stays, while one-week “Presidents View” intervals are priced at $13,000 to $25,000 depending on the value rating of the interval. During 2004, 570 Vacation Intervals were sold.
Holiday Hills Resort. Holiday Hills Resort is a resort community located in Taney County, Missouri, two miles east of Branson, Missouri. The resort is 224 miles from Kansas City and 267 miles from St. Louis. The resort is heavily wooded by cedar, pine, and hardwood trees, and is favored by Silverleaf Owners seeking quality golf and nightly entertainment in nearby Branson. Holiday Hills Resort is a mixed-use development of single-family lots, condominiums, and timeshare units. The resort contains approximately 405 acres, including a 91-acre golf course. At December 31, 2004, approximately 301 acres were developed and 63 acres are currently planned by the Company to be used for future development.
At December 31, 2004, 392 units were completed and an additional 396 units are planned for future development. There are four types of timeshare units at this resort: (i) two bedroom, two bath, one-story fourplexes, (ii) one bedroom, one bath, with upstairs loft, log construction duplexes, (iii) two bedroom, two bath, two-story fourplexes, and (iv) two bedroom, two bath, three-story sixplexes and twelveplexes. Each unit includes a living room with sleeper sofa, full kitchen, whirlpool tub, and color television. Certain units will include a fireplace, ceiling fans, imported tile, oversized sliding glass doors, vaulted ceilings, and rattan or pine furniture. “Presidents Fairways” units feature a larger, more spacious floor plan (1,255 square feet), back veranda, washer and dryer, and a more elegant décor.
Taneycomo Lake, a popular lake for trout fishing, is approximately three miles from the resort, and Table Rock Lake is approximately ten miles from the resort. Amenities at the resort include an 18-hole golf course, tennis court, picnic areas, camp sites, basketball court, activity area which includes shuffleboard, horseshoes, and a children’s playground, a 5,356 square foot clubhouse that includes a pro shop, restaurant, and meeting space, a 2,800 square foot outdoor swimming pool, and a sports pool. Lot and condominium unit owners are also entitled to use these amenities pursuant to use agreements between the Company and certain homeowners’ associations.
At December 31, 2004, the resort contained 20,248 Vacation Intervals, of which 1,175 remained available for sale. The Company plans to build 396 additional units, which would yield an additional 20,564 Vacation Intervals available for sale. Vacation Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $9,500 to $17,000 for one-week stays (and start at $7,250 for biennial intervals), while one-week “Presidents Fairways” intervals are priced at $13,000 to $27,000 depending on the value rating of the interval. During 2004, 2,459 Vacation Intervals were sold.
Oak N’ Spruce Resort. In December 1997, we acquired the Oak N’ Spruce Resort in the Berkshire mountains of western Massachusetts. The resort is located approximately 134 miles west of Boston, Massachusetts, and 114 miles north of New York City. Oak N’ Spruce Resort is a mixed-use development which includes a hotel and timeshare units. The resort contains approximately 244 acres. At December 31, 2004, approximately 37 acres were developed and 10 acres are currently planned by the Company to be used for future development.
At December 31, 2004, the resort had 272 units completed and 78 units are planned for development. There are six types of existing units at the resort: (i) one-bedroom flat, (ii) one-bedroom townhouse, (iii) two-bedroom flat, (iv) two-bedroom townhouse, (v) two-bedroom, flex-time, and (vi) two-bedroom lodge style and Presidents style units. There is also a 21-room hotel at the resort which could be converted to timeshare use. Amenities within each new unit include a living room with sleeper sofa, full kitchen, whirlpool tub, and color television. Certain units include ceiling fans, ceramic tile, and rattan or pine furniture.
Amenities at the resort include two indoor heated swimming pools with hot tubs, an outdoor pool with sauna, health club, lounge, ski rentals, miniature golf, shuffleboard, basketball and tennis courts, horseshoe pits, hiking and ski trails, and an activity area for badminton. The resort is also near Beartown State Forest.
At December 31, 2004, the resort contained 14,144 Vacation Intervals, of which 1,691 remained available for sale. We plan to build 78 additional “lodge-style” units, which would yield an additional 4,056 Vacation Intervals available for sale. Vacation Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $8,000 to $18,000 for one-week stays (and start at $6,100 for biennial intervals). During 2004, 1,104 Vacation Intervals were sold.
Silverleaf’s Seaside Resort. Silverleaf’s Seaside Resort is located in Galveston, Texas, approximately 50 miles south of Houston, Texas. The resort contains approximately 87 acres. At December 31, 2004, approximately 50 acres were developed and 37 acres are currently planned by the Company to be used for future development.
At December 31, 2004, the resort had 84 units and an additional 198 are planned for development. The two bedroom, two bath units are situated in three-story twelveplex buildings. Amenities within each unit include two large bedrooms, two bathrooms (one with a whirlpool tub), living room with sleeper sofa, full kitchen, color television, and electronic door locks.
With 635 feet of beachfront, the primary amenity at the resort is the Gulf of Mexico. Other amenities include a lodge with kitchen, tennis court, swimming pool, sand volleyball court, playground, picnic pavilion, horseshoes, and shuffleboard.
At December 31, 2004, the resort contained 4,368 Vacation Intervals of which 360 remained available for sale. We plan to build 198 additional units which would yield an additional 10,296 Vacation Intervals for sale. Vacation Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $9,000 to $18,500 for one-week stays (and start at $6,250 for biennial intervals). During 2004, 474 Vacation Intervals were sold.
Orlando Breeze. In October 2004, we acquired a 4.8-acre tract of land located in Davenport, Florida, just outside Orlando, Florida, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $6.0 million. The site, formerly known as the Villas at Polo Park, is near the major Florida tourist attractions of Walt Disney World, Sea World, and Universal Studios. Our public offering statement filed with the Florida Bureau of Standards and Registrations was approved in February 2005, granting us sales approval for 16 units encompassing 832 one-week vacation intervals.
The resort has 48 two and three bedroom units, with eight two-bedroom units and eight three-bedroom units having been recently refurbished as of February 2005. Amenities within each refurbished unit include a living room with sleeper sofa, full kitchen, color television, ceiling fans, ceramic tile, Broyhill furniture, and aluminum patio furniture. Amenities at the resort include a heated outdoor swimming pool with whirlpool, fitness center, arcade, playground, sand volleyball and basketball courts.
Vacation Intervals at the resort are currently priced from $19,500 to $26,500 for one-week stays.
ITEM 3.