ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Corporate Offices. Our principal executive office, located in Dallas, Texas, is approximately 66,000 square feet of leased space. We also maintain two leased telemarketing centers in the Dallas area. Our sales are conducted primarily through sales centers located at our various resorts, a leased off-site sales center in Irving, Texas, and a leased member services office in Lombard, Illinois, near Chicago. The square footage of our leased telemarketing centers and off-site sales centers are approximately 21,000, 40,000, 16,500, and 16,000, respectively. During 2009, we consolidated our two telemarketing centers and relocated corporate staff into the vacancy created by this consolidation. We also lease small office facilities in San Antonio and Houston, Texas, which we use in our marketing efforts in those locales.
The Pinnacle Lodge. We own The Pinnacle Lodge, a 64-room hotel property located near the Winter Park recreational area in Colorado which provides our owners with another destination vacation alternative and gives Silverleaf an entry point into this increasingly popular destination area. We generated revenues of $914,000 and $1.3 million at The Pinnacle Lodge during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Other Properties. We are in the early stages of development of an 894-acre tract of land we own in the Berkshire Mountains of Western Massachusetts. In 2009, we purchased an additional 50 acres which adjoins our 894 acres. During 2010, the additional 50 acres were deeded to the Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric Cooperative at a price of $100,000, which was the same amount as our original cost to acquire the property in 2009. We have not yet finalized our future development plans for this site.
We own15 acres of undeveloped land in Grand County, Colorado with plans to develop up to 136 Vacation Interval units on the property. The acquired land is located only two miles from The Pinnacle Lodge hotel.
We own two tracts of land totaling 63 acres in Adams County, Wisconsin. 61 acres are in the city of Wisconsin Dells and 2 acres are in the city of Dell Prairie. We are in the initial stages of planning the future development of this property.
Resorts. At December 31, 2010, we owned a total of 13 timeshare resorts. Each of these resorts was encumbered by various liens and security agreements at December 31, 2010 due to inventory from each resort being pledged as collateral under our inventory credit facilities with our senior lenders. See Note 8, "Debt” in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a further description of these credit facilities. A description of our Existing Resorts and future developmental plans are summarized below.
Getaway Resorts
Holly Lake Resort. Holly Lake Resort is a family-oriented golf resort located in the Piney Woods of east Texas, approximately 105 miles east of Dallas, Texas. The timeshare portion of Holly Lake is part of a 4,300 acre mixed-use development of single-family lots and timeshare units with other third-party developers. The resort has 130 existing units. No additional units are planned for development at this resort.
The Villages and Lake O’ The Woods Resorts. The Villages and Lake O’ The Woods are sister resorts located on the shores of Lake Palestine, approximately 100 miles east of Dallas, Texas.
The Villages Resort is an active sports resort popular for water-skiing and boating. In the first quarter of 2008, we opened our indoor water park and Beach Club amenity, which are popular attractions at the resort. The Villages Resort is a mixed-use development of single-family lots and timeshare units. The resort has 394 existing units. We plan to develop approximately 204 additional units at this resort in the future, which would yield an additional 10,608 Vacation Intervals available for sale.
Lake O' The Woods Resort is a quiet wooded resort where Silverleaf Owners can enjoy the seclusion of dense pine forests. The resort is also popular for its fishing pier, nature trails, and recreational beach area. Lake O’ The Woods Resort has 64 existing units. No additional units are planned for development at this resort.
Piney Shores Resort. Piney Shores Resort is located on the shores of Lake Conroe, approximately 40 miles north of Houston, Texas. Piney Shores Resort is a quiet, wooded resort ideally located for day-trips from metropolitan areas in the southeastern Gulf Coast area of Texas. The resort has 266 existing units. We plan to develop approximately 172 additional units at this resort in the future, which would yield an additional 8,944 Vacation Intervals available for sale. We own approximately 10 additional acres of land contiguous to the Piney Shores Resort.
Timber Creek Resort. Timber Creek Resort, in Desoto, Missouri, is located approximately 50 miles south of St. Louis, Missouri. The primary recreational amenity available at the resort is a 40-acre fishing lake. In addition, the resort has a five-hole par-three executive golf course. The resort has 72 existing units and 24 additional units are planned for future development, which would yield an additional 1,248 Vacation Intervals available for sale.
Fox River Resort. Fox River Resort, in Sheridan, Illinois, is located approximately 70 miles southwest of Chicago. The gentle rolling hills and seven-acre stocked lake provide an ideal environment for outdoor activities such as canoeing, fishing, and swimming. We also offer winter recreational activities at this resort, including ice-skating, snowmobiling, and cross-country skiing. The resort has 252 existing units. We plan to develop approximately 264 additional units at this resort in the future, which would yield an additional 13,728 Vacation Intervals available for sale.
Apple Mountain Resort. Apple Mountain Resort, in Clarkesville, Georgia, is located approximately 125 miles north of Atlanta, Georgia. The resort is situated on 285 acres of beautiful open pastures and rolling hills, with 150 acres being the resort’s golf course. The resort has 96 existing units and approximately 168 additional units are planned for future development, which would yield an additional 8,736 Vacation Intervals available for sale.
Destination Resorts
Ozark Mountain Resort. Ozark Mountain Resort is a family-oriented resort located on the shores of Table Rock Lake, which features bass fishing. The resort is located approximately 15 miles from Branson, Missouri, a family music and entertainment center, 233 miles from Kansas City, and 276 miles from St. Louis. Ozark Mountain Resort is a mixed-use development of timeshare and condominium units. Ozark Mountain Resort has 160 existing units. No additional units are planned for development at this resort.
Holiday Hills Resort. Holiday Hills Resort is a resort community located in Taney County, Missouri, two miles east of Branson, Missouri. Taneycomo Lake, a popular lake for trout fishing, is approximately three miles from the resort, and Table Rock Lake is approximately ten miles from the resort. The resort is 224 miles from Kansas City and 267 miles from St. Louis. Holiday Hills Resort is heavily wooded by cedar, pine, and hardwood trees, and is favored by Silverleaf Owners seeking quality golf and nightly entertainment in nearby Branson. The resort is a mixed-use development of single-family lots, condominiums, and timeshare
units. The resort has 498 existing units. We have future plans to develop approximately 500 additional units at this resort, which would yield an additional 26,000 Vacation Intervals available for sale.
Hill Country Resort. Hill Country Resort is located near Canyon Lake in the hill country of central Texas between Austin and San Antonio. Area sights and activities include water-tubing on the nearby Guadalupe River and visiting the many tourist attractions in San Antonio, such as Sea World, The Alamo, The River Walk, Fiesta Texas, and the San Antonio Zoo. The resort has 374 existing units. We have future plans to develop approximately 188 additional units at this resort, which would yield an additional 9,776 Vacation Intervals available for sale. We own approximately 8 additional acres of land that is adjacent to the existing resort.
Oak N' Spruce Resort. Oak N’ Spruce Resort, located in the Berkshire mountains of western Massachusetts, is approximately 134 miles west of Boston, Massachusetts, and 114 miles north of New York City. The resort is an active sports resort popular for hiking in the Appalachian Trail, boating, fishing, snowmobiling, and cross-country skiing. The resort has 340 existing units. We have future plans to develop approximately 10 additional units at this resort, which would yield an additional 520 Vacation Intervals available for sale.
Silverleaf’s Seaside Resort. Silverleaf’s Seaside Resort is located in Galveston, Texas, approximately 50 miles south of Houston, Texas. With 635 feet of beachfront, the primary amenity at the resort is the Gulf of Mexico. The resort has 156 existing units. We have future plans to develop approximately 252 additional units at this resort, which would yield an additional 13,104 Vacation Intervals available for sale. During 2010, we added 12 new units at this resort.
Orlando Breeze Resort. Orlando Breeze Resort is located in Davenport, Florida, just outside Orlando, Florida, near the major tourist attractions of Walt Disney World, Sea World, and Universal Studios. The resort has 60 existing units. We plan to develop approximately 12 additional units at this resort, which would yield an additional 624 Vacation Intervals available for sale. We also own an additional 31 acres contiguous to the Orlando Breeze Resort. We have not yet finalized plans for development of this property.
Resorts Summary
The following tables set forth certain information regarding each of the Existing Resorts at December 31, 2010, unless otherwise indicated.
Existing Resorts
(a)
These totals do not reflect sales of upgraded Vacation Intervals to existing Silverleaf Owners. An “upgraded Vacation Interval” sale refers to an exchange of a lower priced interval for a higher priced interval in which the Silverleaf Owner is given credit for all principal payments previously made toward the purchase of the lower priced interval. For the year ended December 31, 2010, upgrade sales at the Existing Resorts were as follows:
The average sales price for the 11,414 upgraded Vacation Intervals sold was $7,060 for the year ended December 31, 2010.
(b)
Represents units included in our master plan. This plan is subject to change based upon various factors, including consumer demand, the availability of financing, grant of governmental land-use permits, and future land-planning and site layout considerations. The following chart reflects the status of certain planned units at December 31, 2010:
“Land-Use Process Pending” means that we have commenced the process which we believe is required under current law in order to obtain the necessary land-use authorizations from the applicable local governmental authority with jurisdiction, including submitting for approval any architectural drawings, preliminary plats, or other attendant items as may be required.
“Land-Use Process Complete” means either that (i) we believe that we have obtained all necessary land-use authorizations under current law from the applicable local governmental authority with jurisdiction, including the approval and filing of any required preliminary or final plat and the issuance of building permit(s), in each case to the extent applicable, or (ii) upon payment of any required filing or other fees, we believe that we will under current law obtain such necessary authorizations without further process.
(c)
These totals are net of intervals received from upgrading customers and from intervals received from cancellations.
(d)
Principal amenities available to Silverleaf Owners at each resort are indicated by the following symbols: B - boating; F - fishing; G - golf; H - horseback riding; M - miniature golf; S - swimming pool; T - tennis; and W - indoor water park.
(e)
Boating is available near the resort.
(f)
Engineering, architectural, and construction estimates have not been completed, and we cannot be certain that we will develop these properties at the unit numbers currently projected.
Features Common to Existing Resorts
Getaway Resorts are primarily located in rustic areas offering Silverleaf Owners a quiet, relaxing vacation environment. Furthermore, the resorts offer different vacation activities, including golf, fishing, boating, swimming, horseback riding, tennis, and archery. Destination Resorts are located in or near areas with national tourist appeal. Features common to the Existing Resorts include the following:
Bonus Time Program. Silverleaf Club’s Bonus Time program offers Silverleaf Owners a benefit not typically enjoyed by other timeshare owners. In addition to the right to use a unit one week per year, the Bonus Time program allows all Silverleaf Owners, who are current on their dues and timeshare loan installment payments, to use vacant units for up to three nights at a time at any of our owned resorts. Sunday through Thursday night stays are currently without charge, while Friday through Saturday stays presently cost $49.95 per night payable to Silverleaf Club. The Bonus Time program is limited based on the availability of units. Availability is created when a Silverleaf Owner does not use his or her owned week. Silverleaf Owners who have utilized the resort less frequently are given priority to use the program and may only use an interval with an equal or lower rating than their owned Vacation Interval. We believe this program is important as many vacationers prefer shorter two to three day vacations. Owners of unused intervals that are utilized by the Bonus Time program are not compensated other than by their participation in the Bonus Time program.
Year-Round Use of Amenities. Even when not using the lodging facilities, Silverleaf Owners have unlimited year-round day usage of the amenities located at the Existing Resorts, such as boating, fishing, miniature golf, tennis, swimming, or hiking, for little or no additional cost. Certain amenities, however, such as our indoor water park, golf, horseback riding, or watercraft rentals, may require a usage fee.
Exchange Privileges. Each Silverleaf Owner has certain exchange privileges through Silverleaf Club which may be used on an annual basis to (i) exchange an interval for a different interval (week) at the same resort so long as the desired interval is of an equal or lower rating; or (ii) exchange an interval for an interval (week) of equal or lower rating at any other of our Existing Resorts. Silverleaf Owners of Getaway Resorts can only exchange for an interval in a Getaway Resort unless they own a “Presidents,” “Chairmans,” or “Ambassador” Vacation Interval. These exchange rights are a convenience we provide Silverleaf Owners and are conditioned upon availability of the desired interval or resort. Approximately 13,874 exchanges occurred in 2010. The price to Silverleaf Owners for each such internal exchange is $75, payable to Silverleaf Club. In addition, Silverleaf Owners may join the exchange program administered by RCI for an annual fee of $89 and II at Oak N' Spruce for an annual fee of $89.
Deeded Ownership. We typically sell a Vacation Interval that entitles the owner to use a specific unit for a designated one-week interval each year. The Vacation Interval purchaser receives a recorded deed, which grants the purchaser a percentage interest in a specific unit for a designated week. We also sell a biennial (alternate year) Vacation Interval that allows the owner to use a unit for a one-week interval every other year with reduced dues.
Management Club. Each of the Existing Resorts has a Club for the benefit of the timeshare owners. At December 31, 2010, the Clubs (except for the club at Orlando Breeze) operate under Silverleaf Club to manage the Existing Resorts on a centralized and collective basis. We have contracted with Silverleaf Club to perform certain supervisory and management functions granted by the Clubs. Costs of these operations are covered by monthly dues paid by timeshare owners to their respective Clubs together with income generated by the operation of certain amenities at each respective resort. Orlando Breeze Resort, our destination resort in Florida, has its own club, Orlando Breeze Resort Club, which operates independently of Silverleaf Club. However, we supervise the management and operation of Orlando Breeze Resort Club under the terms of a written agreement.
On-Site Security. Each of the Existing Resorts is patrolled by security personnel who are either employees of the various management clubs or employees of independent security service companies that have contracted with the Clubs.
Competitive Advantages
We believe our business affords us the following competitive advantages:
Convenient Getaway Locations. Our Getaway Resorts are located within a two-hour drive of a majority of our target customers' residences, which accommodates what we believe to be the growing demand for shorter, more frequent, close-to-home vacations. This proximity of our customer base to our resorts facilitates use of our Bonus Time program, allowing Silverleaf Owners to use vacant units, subject to availability and certain limitations. We believe we are the only timeshare operator that offers customers these expanded use benefits. Silverleaf Owners can also conveniently drive to and enjoy non-lodging resort amenities at our resorts year-round on a day use “country-club” type basis.
Substantial Internal Growth Capacity. At December 31, 2010, we had an inventory of 27,869 Vacation Intervals and a master plan to construct new units which will result in up to 93,288 additional Vacation Intervals at our Existing Resorts. Our master plan for construction of new units is contingent upon future sales at our Existing Resorts and the availability of financing, granting of governmental permits, and future land-planning and site-layout considerations.
In-House Operations. We have in-house marketing, sales, financing, development, and property management capabilities. While we utilize outside contractors to supplement internal resources, our internal capabilities provide greater control over all phases of our operations, help maintain operating standards, and reduce overall costs.
Lower Construction and Operating Costs. We have developed and generally employ standard architectural designs and operating procedures, which we believe significantly reduce construction and operating expenses. Standardization and integration also allow us to rapidly develop new inventory in response to demand. Weather permitting, new units at Existing Resorts can typically be constructed on an “as needed” basis within 180 to 270 days.
Centralized Property Management Supervision. We presently supervise the operation of all of our Existing Resorts (except for Orlando Breeze) on an integrated, centralized, and collective basis through our Management Agreement with Silverleaf Club with operating and maintenance costs paid from Silverleaf Owners' monthly dues. While our Orlando Breeze Resort in Florida has its own separate Club (Orlando Breeze Resort Club), we also provide centralized supervision of its operations under the terms of a written agreement to ensure the quality of services provided to Orlando Breeze timeshare owners. We believe that consolidation of resort operations benefits Silverleaf Owners by providing a uniform level of service, accommodations, and amenities on a standardized, cost-effective basis. Integration also facilitates our internal exchange program and the Bonus Time program.
Experienced Management. Our senior management has extensive experience in the acquisition, development, marketing, sales, and operation of timeshare resorts. The senior officers have an average of twenty-two years of experience in the timeshare industry.
Future Business Strategy
Our principal short-term focus is on continuing to conservatively increase annual net income. We will continue to identify new and existing customers with acceptable credit characteristics that will allow us to profitably sell new, upgrade, and additional Vacation Intervals at our Existing Resorts. Although we have no immediate growth plans, long term, if the opportunities present themselves, we will consider adding and developing new resorts where timeshare intervals can be marketed and sold at a profit.
Our future business strategy is to conservatively increase annual net income through a combination of:
•
maintaining marketing, sales, and development activities at our resorts in accordance with our current business model;
•
emphasizing collection and marketing programs with a view toward establishing procedures aimed at reducing note defaults and improving the credit quality of our customers;
•
concentrating on marketing to existing members, including sales of upgraded Vacation Intervals, additional week sales, and existing owner referral programs;
•
emphasizing our secondary products, such as biennial (alternate year) intervals, to broaden our potential market with a wider price range of products for first-time buyers;
•
adding other assets and amenities to attract our customers by enhancing vacation experiences; and
•
developing new or existing resorts as the capital markets permit.
ITEM 3.