ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
PRIMARY EXPLORATION PROVINCES
Brigham focuses its 3-D seismic exploration efforts in natural gas and oil producing provinces where it believes 3-D technology may be effectively applied to generate relatively large potential reserve volumes per well and per field, high potential production rates and multiple producing objectives. Brigham's exploration activities are concentrated primarily in three core provinces: the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle; the onshore Gulf Coast of south Texas and, to a lesser extent, the transition zone of Louisiana; and West Texas. Brigham is concentrating substantially all of its current 3-D seismic and drilling activities on its natural gas projects in its Anadarko Basin and Gulf Coast provinces primarily due to the continuation of historically low oil prices which has made its inventory of potential drilling locations in its West Texas province less economically attractive.
Brigham has made significant investments in 3-D seismic and prospective acreage in its Anadarko Basin and Gulf Coast provinces during the past three years. Through these investments, the Company believes it has assembled an inventory of potential drilling locations that will support a multi-year drilling program, thereby providing attractive opportunities for long-term growth. Based upon the interpreted portion of its 3-D seismic data as of December 31, 1998, the Company estimates that it has identified approximately 700 potential undrilled locations within its three core exploration provinces. From inception in 1990 through 1998, Brigham has achieved net drilling costs of $0.82 per Mcfe added through its 3-D seismic exploration efforts. In addition, over 500 of Brigham's estimated potential drilling locations are in its currently active Anadarko Basin and Gulf Coast provinces where the Company has achieved inception-to-date net drilling costs of $0.68 and $0.59 per Mcfe, respectively. Furthermore, the Company estimates that approximately 800 square miles of its 1,213 total square miles of 3-D seismic data acquired in 1998 had either not been interpreted or only partially interpreted at December 31, 1998, which should provide additional potential drilling locations.
As a result of the Company's substantial investments to identify potential drilling locations and its currently limited capital resources, Brigham intends to devote substantially all of its efforts and available capital resources in 1999 to the drilling and monetization of its highest grade prospects identified or to be identified from its over 5,000 square mile inventory of 3-D seismic data. The Company's current 1999 capital budget is estimated to be $17.5 million, which represents a significant reduction from 1998 expenditures and its previously anticipated 1999 levels in an effort to match Brigham's current and expected future capital resources. The Company's budgeted 1999 capital expenditures consist of approximately $10 million to drill an estimated 20 to 25 gross wells, $3.5 million for seismic and land costs (primarily previous commitments and obligations to acquire 3-D data and acreage), and $4 million for capitalized general and administrative expenses and other fixed asset expenditures. Brigham expects that its 1999 drilling expenditures will be allocated approximately 50% to its Anadarko Basin province and 50% to its Gulf Coast province, and such expenditures will be devoted to the drilling of the highest grade prospects in the Company's inventory of identified potential drilling locations. Additionally, Brigham's 1999 drilling program will be concentrated within trends where the Company has experienced exploration success to date. Management believes that the Company has an attractive opportunity to profitably drill its highest grade 3-D delineated locations due to its historical drilling costs and the currently low cost drilling environment. Therefore, management's goal is to access additional capital to further monetize its prospect inventory. As a result, the Company's actual capital expenditures in 1999 may differ significantly from these estimates based upon capital availability during the year. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity" and "-- Capital Resources".
Although the Company is interpreting 3-D seismic data within the provinces discussed below and has identified an estimated 700 potential drilling locations yet to be drilled in those provinces, there can be no assurance that any of the remaining seismic data will be interpreted or will generate additional drilling locations or that any potential drilling locations will be drilled at all or within the expected time frame. The final determination with respect to the drilling of any well, including those currently budgeted, will depend on a number of factors, including (i) the results of exploration efforts and the review and analysis of the seismic data, (ii) the availability of sufficient capital resources by the Company and other participants for drilling prospects, (iii) economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for oil and natural gas and the availability of drilling rigs and crews, (iv) the financial resources and results of the Company and (v) the availability of leases on reasonable terms
- 9 -
and permitting for the potential drilling location. There can be no assurance that the budgeted wells will, if drilled, encounter reservoirs of commercial quantities of natural gas or oil.
Anadarko Basin
The Anadarko Basin is a prolific natural gas province that the Company believes offers a combination of lower risk exploration and development opportunities in shallower horizons and deeper, higher potential objectives that have been relatively under explored. This province has produced in excess of 90 Tcfe to date from numerous, historically elusive stratigraphic targets, such as the Red Fork, Upper Morrow and Springer channel sands, as well as from deeper, higher potential structural objectives, such the Lower Morrow sandstones and the Hunton and Arbuckle carbonates. In some cases, these objectives have produced in excess of 30 Bcf of natural gas from a single well at rates of up to 30 MMcf of natural gas per day. In addition, drilling economics in the Anadarko Basin are enhanced by the multi-pay nature of many of the prospects in this province, with secondary or tertiary targets serving as either incremental value or bailout potential relative to the primary target zone.
Each of the stratigraphic and structural objectives in the Anadarko Basin can provide excellent targets for 3-D seismic imaging. The Company has assembled an extensive digital data base in this province, including geologic studies, basin wide geologic tops, production data, well data, geographic data and over 8,400 miles of 2-D seismic data. Working with its team of in-house geologists and supplemented by consulting geologists, the Company's explorationists integrate this data with their extensive expertise and knowledge base to generate 3-D projects in the Anadarko Basin.
Following its initial 3-D seismic acquisition in the province in 1991 (12.5 square miles), the Company acquired 51 square miles of 3-D seismic in the Anadarko Basin in 1993. Over the last several years the Company has accelerated its activity in the Anadarko Basin, acquiring 151 square miles of 3-D seismic in 1994, 195 square miles in 1995, 457 square miles in 1996, 675 square miles in 1997 and 583 square miles in 1998. The Company retained a 75% average working interest in its 1997 and 1998 Anadarko Basin 3-D seismic projects which consisted of an aggregate of 1,258 square miles of 3-D seismic data.
As of December 31, 1998, the Company had acquired 2,124 square miles (1.4 million acres) of 3-D seismic data in the Anadarko Basin, of which an estimated 300 square miles had either not been interpreted or only partially interpreted. The Company does not currently intend to acquire additional 3-D seismic data in this province in 1999. As of December 31, 1998, Brigham had completed 71 wells in 95 attempts (75% success rate) in the Anadarko Basin and had found cumulative net proved reserves of 48 Bcfe at an average net drilling cost of $0.68 per Mcfe. In addition to its drilling activity in this province, the Company acquired 21.5 Bcfe of net proved reserves in the Anadarko Basin in late 1997 at a cost of $0.63 per Mcfe in an effort to capture additional prospects for future potential drilling. In its Anadarko Basin drilling program in 1998, the Company completed 27 wells in 40 attempts (68% success rate) with an average working interest of 50%, resulting in the addition of 9.5 net Bcfe of proved reserves (including revisions to prior years' estimates) at an average net drilling cost of $1.93 per Mcfe. Brigham's Anadarko Basin net drilling costs per Mcfe in 1998 were negatively impacted by the unsuccessful drilling of several proved undeveloped locations booked during 1997, particularly three high equity interest direct offset locations to the Company's Christopher 84 #1 Lower Morrow discovery in Hemphill County, Texas, and by several unsuccessful exploratory wells with high equity interests that were drilled late in the year. Despite the disappointing drilling costs realized in 1998, the Company has achieved average net drilling costs of $0.68 per Mcfe in its Anadarko Basin province from 1994 to 1998. As of December 31, 1998, the Company had identified an estimated 430 3-D delineated potential drilling locations in the Anadarko Basin, of which the Company intends to drill 10 to 15 gross wells in 1999 with an estimated average working interest of 40%.
As part of its strategic initiatives to improve its capital resources and liquidity in 1999, Brigham is currently marketing three producing property packages among its Anadarko Basin province reserve base. These three packages consist of proved reserves totaling approximately 41 net Bcfe as of December 31, 1998. The Company may or may not divest all or a portion these reserves, depending primarily upon the offers received during the marketing process.
- 10 -
Brigham intends to focus its 1999 exploration activities in its Anadarko Basin province in the following key project areas:
Arnett Project
Brigham's Arnett Project covers approximately 129,000 acres in Ellis County, Oklahoma, and targets Morrow and Hunton producing horizons at depths of 10,000 to 14,000 feet. In 1997 and 1998, the Company acquired 127 square miles of 3-D seismic in the first three of four planned phases of this project. Following seismic interpretation and initial prospect delineation on this data, Brigham began drilling in the Arnett Project in late 1998. While two of the first three exploration wells in this project were unsuccessful, the Company was completing a fourth well in mid- March 1999 in the primary objectives, the Hunton and Morrow, and has logged additional pay behind pipe in a secondary pay zone, the Tonkawa. Successful completion and production results from this well could provide offset development drilling opportunities particularly for the Morrow which is productive in the immediate area. In mid- March 1999, a fifth well was drilling in this project, also targeting the Hunton and Morrow as primary objectives. Following the sale of a portion of its interest in this project in early 1999, Brigham retains a 70% effective working interest in its Arnett Project. See "Item 1. Business -- Industry Alliances -- Duke Project Financing".
Falcon Project
Brigham's Falcon Project covers approximately 43,500 acres in the northeastern portion of the Texas Panhandle in Lipscomb County, Texas. This project is located in an area which produces from a number of Pennsylvanian-aged sands, with primary targets in the Upper and Lower Morrow and secondary targets in the shallower Tonkawa and Cleveland sands. The Upper and Lower Morrow zones produce from horizons in the area at depths ranging from 9,000 to 12,000 feet. The Falcon Project is located within a trend where Brigham has considerable exploration history having acquired over 280 miles of 3-D seismic and discovered over 37 Bcfe of gross reserves in the Upper and Lower Morrow reservoirs. Based on this historical success, the Company acquired an additional 68 square miles of 3-D seismic data in its Falcon Project during the second half of 1998 and has already delineated several Upper and Lower Morrow prospects in the early stages of interpretation. Brigham spud the first exploration well in its Falcon Project in March 1999 to test a potentially significant Lower Morrow sand structural feature with associated upside potential in the shallower Tonkawa sands. Based on predrill estimates, gross unrisked reserve potential for this structural prospect is over 5 Bcfe. Following the sale of a portion of its interest in this project in early 1999, Brigham retains a 70% effective working interest in its Falcon Project. See "Item 1. Business -- Industry Alliances -- Duke Project Financing".
Gold Project
The Gold Project is located in Dewey and Blaine Counties, Oklahoma, and targets dual natural gas producing objectives in the Morrow sandstones and Hunton carbonates at depths of 9,500 to 11,500 feet. The initial acquisition of 89 square miles of 3-D seismic data covering the project acreage was completed in 1996 and drilling activity commenced in 1998 resulting in two Hunton and one Morrow discovery. The Thomas #2 well (Brigham 34% working interest) discovered 2.4 gross Bcfe of proved reserves in the Hunton formation at a depth of 11,450 feet and was producing 2.5 MMcf of natural gas per day in mid-March 1999. The Thomas #2 is producing from a location which is believed to be associated with a potentially larger Hunton natural gas accumulation which could lead to several development locations. The Willie Porter #1 well (Brigham 34% working interest) found 2.3 gross Bcfe of proved reserves in the Hunton formation at 12,250 feet and was producing at a rate of 570 Mcf of natural gas per day in mid- March 1999. In late 1998, the Sturgeon State #1 (Brigham 34% working interest) was completed in a Morrow sand zone and was producing 70 Bbls of oil per day in mid-March 1999 before stimulation of the well. The Company and its participants have a number of additional Hunton and Morrow locations, mostly extensional and developmental in nature, planned for drilling in the Gold Project in 1999. Brigham has a 37.5% working interest in its Gold Project.
Huskie and Boilermaker Projects
Brigham's Huskie and Boilermaker Projects consist of 103 and 96 square miles, respectively, of continuous 3-D seismic data covering approximately 127,000 acres in Blaine County, Oklahoma. These projects target stratigraphic
- 11 -
sand channels in the Springer with additional stratigraphic sand objectives in the Red Fork and Morrow in several identified prospects. Brigham initiated acquisition of data in its Huskie Project in 1996 where it retained a 37.5% working interest and, based upon the prospect density and reserve potential interpreted from this initial data set, the Company subsequently acquired data in its adjacent Boilermaker Project in 1998 where it retained a 100% working interest. The Company assembled acreage over a number of potential drilling locations in these project areas during 1998 and has at least one exploratory well planned for each project in 1999. An exploratory well in the Huskie Project will test a prospect with greater than 15 Bcfe of gross unrisked reserve potential which is an extension to a prolific Springer channel that has produced over 128 Bcfe of natural gas. Success from this initial exploratory well would likely establish several development locations.
Wildcat and Panther Projects
The Company's Wildcat and Panther Projects consist of 50 and 99 square miles, respectively, of continuous 3-D seismic data covering approximately 95,000 acres in the southern portion of the Texas Panhandle in Wheeler County, Texas and Beckham County, Oklahoma. The primary exploration targets within these projects are high potential, structural features at depths ranging from 7,500 to 21,000 feet. Brigham initiated acquisition of data in its Wildcat Project in 1997 where it retained a 37.5% working interest. Based upon the interpretation of this initial data set, the Company subsequently acquired data in its adjacent Panther Project in 1998 where it retained a 100% working interest. In its Wildcat Project, the Company has a deep 21,000 foot exploratory well planned for the second half of 1999 to drill an updip location to a Hunton well that has produced over 14.5 Bcfe since 1981 and was still producing in mid-March 1999. The Company believes successful completion of this exploratory test could prove up an additional 27 Bcfe of remaining gross unrisked reserves in the attic of this producing structure. Also in the second half of 1999, the Company plans to drill a 7,500 foot test for 17 Bcfe of gross unrisked potential reserves in a dual objective Brown Dolomite/Granite Wash structure.
Chitwood Project
Brigham's Chitwood Project consists of approximately 13 square miles of 3-D seismic data located in the prolific Carter Knox anticline in Grady County, Oklahoma. This project targets a mix of intermediate and deep prospects that range from lower risk, development locations to higher risk, exploratory objectives. Brigham initially entered this area with its 24 square mile West Bradley Project acquired in 1994. In November 1997, the Company acquired an interest in the producing Chitwood properties and undeveloped acreage which is located adjacent to the West Bradley Project area. During 1998, as part of a larger 142 square mile non-proprietary 3-D survey, Brigham and its project participant acquired 13 square miles of 3-D seismic data over the entire Chitwood Project, which led to the delineation of a number of prospects in the Springer, Big Four, and Bromide that are developmental and extensional in nature. In addition, the Company also imaged a large Arbuckle structure with in excess of 100 Bcfe of gross unrisked reserve potential which has not been optimally tested. The targeted objectives in the Chitwood Project range in depth from 12,000 to 19,000 feet. In March 1999, the Company and its project participant drilled the first well in the Chitwood Project based upon interpretation of the recently acquired 3-D seismic data. The Chitwood Boatwright Sand Unit #9 (Brigham working interest 50%) was completed in the Springer formation at a depth of 11,970 feet and was testing 300 Bbls of oil and 500 Mcf gas per day in mid-March 1999. Brigham and its project participant have delineated over 25 potential 3-D drilling locations among the four primary objectives within the Chitwood Project. Brigham has retained a 50% working interest in its Chitwood Project.
As part of its strategic initiatives to raise capital for its 1999 exploration program, the Company is marketing its 50% working interest in acreage and producing wells in the Chitwood Project. To the extent that the Company does not receive adequate offers for its interest in this project, Brigham may retain its interest and engage in further drilling of its identified locations in the Chitwood Project during 1999.
Gulf Coast
The onshore Gulf Coast region of Texas and South Louisiana is a high potential, multi-pay province that lends itself to 3-D seismic exploration due to its substantial structural and stratigraphic complexity. The Company has assembled a digital data base including geographical, production, geophysical and geological information that the
- 12 -
Company evaluates on its CAEX workstations. Working with a team of in-house geologists supplemented by consultants, the Company integrates this data with their extensive expertise and knowledge base to generate 3-D projects in the Gulf Coast. The Company has assembled projects in the Expanded Wilcox and Expanded Vicksburg trends in South Texas, the Miocene and Upper, Middle, and Lower Frio trends of the mid-to-southern regions of Texas, and the Lower Miocene trend in the transition zone of South Louisiana, each of which are active 3-D seismic exploration trends.
Brigham was attracted to the Gulf Coast province because of the opportunity to apply the Company's established 3-D seismic exploration approach and its staff's extensive Gulf Coast experience to a prolific, highly complex structural province with potential to discover significant natural gas reserves and production. The Company initiated its Gulf Coast effort in 1995 with the acquisition of 39 square miles of seismic data in its Esperson Dome Project in which the Company retained a small net profits interest that converts to a variable back-in working interest of 12% to 20% upon project payout. Brigham's exploration efforts in its Esperson Dome Project to date have yielded the discovery of approximately 22 Bcfe of gross proved reserves from 11 wells, mostly from objectives above 6,000 feet, with a number of prospects still remaining to be drilled. Over the last three years the Company has accelerated its activity in the Gulf Coast, acquiring 115 square miles of 3-D seismic in 1996, 404 square miles in 1997, and 590 square miles in 1998. The Company retained a 77% average working interest in its Gulf Coast 3-D seismic projects acquired from 1996 through 1998 which consisted of an aggregate of 1,109 square miles of 3-D seismic data. Brigham anticipates that its increased project assemblage and 3-D seismic acquisition activity in the Gulf Coast will result in the allocation of a higher percentage of its drilling budget to this province in 1999, and will be a significant factor in the Company's future growth.
A portion of Brigham's 3-D seismic data acquisition in the Gulf Coast has been accomplished by the Company's participation in certain non-proprietary, or speculative, seismic programs. By converting certain of the Company's proprietary seismic projects in core exploration areas to speculative data, the Company was able to leverage these proprietary projects for access to substantially larger non-proprietary speculative data for minimal or no additional cost to the Company. The Company believes this 3-D seismic acquisition strategy in the Gulf Coast, in certain circumstances, can accelerate the addition of attractive potential drilling locations in targeted trends at costs that are considerably less than those associated with proprietary 3-D seismic programs, thereby enhancing expected project rates of return.
As of December 31, 1998, the Company had acquired 1,148 square miles (734,720 acres) of 3-D seismic data in its Gulf Coast province, of which an estimated 470 square miles had either not been interpreted or only partially interpreted. The Company does not currently intend to acquire additional 3-D seismic data in this province in 1999. As of December 31, 1998, Brigham had completed 25 wells in 32 attempts (78% success rate) in the Gulf Coast and had found cumulative proved reserves of 24 net Bcfe at an average net drilling cost of $0.59 per Mcfe. In its Gulf Coast drilling program in 1998, the Company completed 17 wells in 21 attempts with an average working interest of 59% adding 21 net Bcfe of proved reserves (including revisions to prior years' estimates) at an average net drilling cost of $0.64 per Mcfe. As of December 31, 1998, the Company had identified an estimated 120 3-D delineated potential drilling locations in the Gulf Coast province, of which the Company intends to drill 10 gross wells in 1999 with an estimated average working interest of 55%.
Brigham intends to focus its 1999 exploration activities in its Gulf Coast province in the following key project areas:
Diablo Project
Brigham's Diablo Project covers 57 square miles in Brooks County, Texas, and targets shallow Frio and deep Vicksburg producing horizons. The Company has entered into a venture with a major integrated oil company that controls adjoining acreage to explore on the combined acreage for potential below 10,000 feet in the Vicksburg formation. Brigham has retained a 34% working interest in this joint exploration project. However, in prospective zones above 10,000 feet, primarily the Frio, Brigham has retained a 100% working interest in its original 4,000 acre lease block. The Company initially acquired 25 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic in this project in 1997, and
- 13 -
acquired an additional 33 square miles in 1998 in its Diablo Project. The Company and its participant control approximately 12,000 net acres of leasehold in this project area.
In the fourth quarter of 1998, Brigham made a potentially significant Lower Vicksburg discovery in its Diablo Project with the completion of the Brigham Palmer State #1 well (Brigham 33% working interest). The Palmer State #1 was successfully completed in three of five possible Lower Vicksburg pay zones at a depths ranging from 9,600 to 12,800 feet and had initially tested at a rate of 2.8 MMcf of natural gas and 668 Bbls of condensate per day. This discovery well appears to be located on the downdip flank of a structure which exceeds 800 acres in closure and contains potential reserves exceeding 50 Bcfe. A minimum of five potential development locations have been identified on the crest of the structure which are updip to the Palmer State #1 discovery well, the first of which is expected to spud in the late second or early third quarter of 1999. In addition, the Company has identified a large, downthrown, four-way closure in an adjacent fault block which has produced over 86 Bcfe from the Frio formation, but which has not been tested in the equivalent Vicksburg sands that produce in the Company's Palmer State #1 well. Brigham plans to spud an exploratory well to test this high potential faulted closure in mid-1999.
Southwest Danbury Project
Located in Brazoria County, Texas, Brigham's Southwest Danbury Project is an approximate 29 square mile 3-D project targeting a series of pressured Lower Frio sands at depths ranging from 12,000 to 13,000 feet. In the first half of 1998, the Brigham Nold Gas Unit #1 (Brigham working interest 46%) was drilled to a depth of approximately 12,700 feet to test a Lower Frio amplitude, or bright spot, and encountered 29 feet of net pay in the Rucks interval of the Lower Frio sands. This well has produced at an average daily rate of 2.6 MMcf of natural gas with 17 Bbls of condensate and 13 Bbls of water since August 1998. Based on the results from this initial well, the Company spud the Brigham Renn Gas Unit #1 (Brigham working interest 83.5%) in December 1998 to test another Lower Frio 3-D bright spot prospect with over 6 Bcfe gross unrisked reserve potential. This well reached total depth and was in the process of completing in late March 1999. In addition, Brigham is evaluating several additional Lower Frio prospects in its Southwest Danbury Project which could expose the Company to significant upside potential.
Hawkins Ranch Project
Brigham's Hawkins Ranch Project is a 160 square mile 3-D seismic program in the Miocene/Frio trend located in Matagorda County, Texas. In 1998, the Company acquired approximately 85 square miles of new proprietary 3-D seismic that was converted to speculative data and merged with 65 square miles of adjacent speculative 3-D data already in inventory. The Hawkins Ranch Project targets potential in the shallow, nonpressured Miocene and Frio sands as well as the deeper, pressured Frio sands. In addition to the shallow Miocene potential, the Company has identified a number of prospects targeting deeper Frio objectives in its Hawkins Ranch Project. The first exploratory Frio well is planned to spud during the second half of 1999. This well is a 14,000 foot pressured test of a 500 acre structure with associated gross unrisked reserve potential exceeding 33 Bcfe. Brigham retains a 60% working interest in this project, following the sale of a 15% interest in the project to an industry participant for $1.5 million in early 1999.
El Sauz Project
In May 1997, Brigham initiated its El Sauz Project with a seismic option covering approximately 94,000 acres in Willacy and Kennedy Counties, Texas. In 1998, the Company acquired 200 square miles of 3-D seismic data over this acreage and sold a 45% working interest in the project to two industry participants which provided the Company with significant carry on the pre-seismic land and seismic acquisition costs of the project. The El Sauz Project is an underexplored area which is bordered on three sides by Miocene and Frio fields which have in aggregate produced over 740 Bcf of natural gas and 94 MMBbls of oil. Primary targets in the El Sauz Project are expected to be in Miocene and Frio sands at depths of 4,500 to 10,000 feet, with additional potential as deep as 18,000 feet in the Lower Frio. Reserve targets range from 5 to 20 Bcf per well. Three prospects are planned for drilling in 1999, two of which target the Frio at depths of 9,300 feet and 9,800 feet and one of which is a Miocene test at 4,500 feet. Brigham retained a 55% working interest in its El Sauz Project.
- 14 -
West Texas
The Company's limited drilling activity in the West Texas region in 1998 was focused in the Horseshoe Atoll, the Midland Basin and the Eastern Shelf of the Permian Basin. Due to a combination of continuing low oil prices and less than anticipated drilling results in its recent exploratory activity in this province, the Company has ceased all 3-D seismic and drilling activities in its West Texas projects and intends to focus substantially all of its exploration efforts in 1999 on its predominately natural gas prospects in its Anadarko Basin and Gulf Coast provinces. To the extent that oil prices improve in the future from current levels, the Company would resume selective drilling of its remaining undrilled locations in its West Texas province if such projects are competitive with its Anadarko Basin and Gulf Coast projects based on estimated risk adjusted, pre-drill economic return analysis.
As of December 31, 1998, the Company had acquired 1,689 square miles (1.1 million acres) in the West Texas region, the vast majority of which has been interpreted. The Company does not currently intend to acquire additional 3-D seismic data in this province for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 1998, Brigham had completed 185 wells in 298 attempts (62% success rate) with an average working interest of 23% in its West Texas province and had found cumulative proved reserves of 20 net Bcfe at an average net drilling cost of $1.39 per Mcfe. In its West Texas drilling program in 1998, the Company completed 6 wells in 11 attempts with an average working interest of 45% adding 0.5 net Bcfe of proved reserves (including revisions to prior years' estimates) at an average net drilling cost of $9.06 per Mcfe. As of December 31, 1998, the Company had an estimated 140 3-D delineated potential drilling locations in the West Texas region. The Company does not currently plan to drill any wells in its West Texas province in 1999.
NATURAL GAS AND OIL RESERVES
The Company's estimated total net proved reserves of natural gas and oil as of December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998 and the present values attributable to these reserves as of those dates were as follows:
- -------------------------
(1) Prior to the Exchange consummated in February 1997, the Company was a partnership and not subject to income taxes. Had the Company been a taxable corporation at December 31, 1996, the Standardized Measure would have been $32.4 million, reflecting a pro forma estimate for the discounted value of future income taxes.
The reserve estimates reflected above were prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. ("Cawley Gillespie"), the Company's petroleum consultants, and are part of reports on the Company's oil and natural gas properties prepared by Cawley Gillespie. The base sales prices for the Company's reserves were $3.71 per Mcf for natural gas and $25.37 per Bbl for oil as of December 31, 1996, $2.27 per Mcf for natural gas and $15.50 per Bbl for oil as of December 31, 1997, and $2.12 per Mcf for natural gas and $9.50 per Bbl for oil as of December 31, 1998. These base prices were adjusted to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials on a well-by-well basis to arrive at realized sales prices used to estimate the Company's reserves at these dates.
- 15 -
In accordance with applicable requirements of the SEC, estimates of the Company's proved reserves and future net revenues are made using sales prices estimated to be in effect as of the date of such reserve estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties (except to the extent a contract specifically provides for escalation). Estimated quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues therefrom are affected by oil and natural gas prices, which have fluctuated widely in recent years. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values, including many factors beyond the control of the Company. The reserve data set forth in this Form 10-K represents only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geologic interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by the Company, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and other factors. The revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered and are highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. The Company's estimated proved reserves have not been filed with or included in reports to any federal agency. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Risk Factors -- Uncertainty of Reserve Information and Future Net Revenue Estimates."
Estimates with respect to proved reserves that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves rather than actual production history. Estimates based on these methods are generally less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history will result in variations in the estimated reserves that may be substantial.
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
The Company drilled, or participated in the drilling of, the following number of wells during the periods indicated:
The Company does not own any drilling rigs, and the majority of its drilling activities have been conducted by industry participant operators or independent contractors under standard drilling contracts. Consistent with its business strategy, the Company has continued to retain operations of an increasing number of the wells it drills. Brigham operated 57% of the gross and 76% of the net wells it participated in during 1998.
- 16 -
PRODUCTIVE WELLS AND ACREAGE
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth the Company's ownership interest as of December 31, 1998 in productive natural gas and oil wells in the areas indicated.
Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including wells waiting on pipeline connection. Wells that are completed in more than one producing horizon are counted as one well. Of the gross wells reported above, none had multiple completions.
Acreage
Undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. A gross acre is an acre in which an interest is owned. A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional interests owned in gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof. The following table sets forth the approximate developed and undeveloped acreage in which the Company held a leasehold, mineral or other interest at December 31, 1998:
All the leases for the undeveloped acreage summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless the existing leases are renewed, production has been obtained from the acreage subject to the lease prior to that date, or some other "savings clause" is implicated. The following table sets forth the minimum remaining terms of leases for the gross and net undeveloped acreage:
- 17 -
In addition, the Company had lease options as of December 31, 1998 to acquire an additional 173,670 gross (128,166 net) acres, substantially all of which expire within eighteen months.
VOLUMES, PRICES AND PRODUCTION COSTS
The following table sets forth the production volumes, average prices received and average production costs associated with the Company's sale of oil and natural gas for the periods indicated.
COSTS INCURRED AND CAPITALIZED COSTS
The costs incurred in oil and natural gas acquisition, exploration and development activities are as follows (in thousands):
Costs incurred represent amounts incurred by the Company for exploration, property acquisition and development activities. Periodically, the Company will receive reimbursement of certain costs from participants in its projects subsequent to project initiation in return for an interest in the project. These payments are described as "Proceeds from participants" in the table above.
ITEM 3.