Item 2. Properties
Historically, our exploration and development activities have been focused in the Onshore Gulf Coast, the Anadarko Basin, which encompasses the Texas Panhandle and western Oklahoma, and West Texas. We focus our activity in provinces where we believe technology and the knowledge of our technical staff can be effectively used to maximize our return on invested capital by reducing drilling risk and enhancing our ability to grow reserves and production volumes. We also regularly evaluate opportunities to expand our activities to areas that may offer attractive exploration and development potential, with a particular interest in those plays that complement our current exploration, development and production activities. Expansion initiatives that began in late 2005 included our acquisition of acreage in both the Williston Basin located in North Dakota and Montana and the Powder River Basin located in Wyoming. Beginning in late 2007, the majority of our capital expenditures shifted from our historically active areas in the Onshore Gulf Coast, the Anadarko Basin and West Texas to the Williston Basin where we are targeting Bakken, Three Forks and Red River objectives. In 2008, we drilled 56 wells on our Williston Basin acreage investing a total of $117.4 million in land, seismic and drilling in this basin. In addition, over the last three years, we have entered into four joint ventures in Southern Louisiana, which we view as a logical extension of our onshore Texas Gulf Coast exploration activities. During 2008, we spent $27.2 million to drill six wells and acquire land and seismic in Southern Louisiana.
For the three-year period ended December 31, 2008, we completed 103 gross wells (38.8 net) in 121 attempts for a completion rate of 85%. We also had seven development wells and one exploratory well that were completing and four development wells and two exploratory wells that were drilling as of December 31, 2008. During 2009, we plan to spend approximately $26.7 million to drill seven development wells and drill and complete wells that were in progress at December 31, 2008. We currently expect to receive net land and seismic reimbursements totaling $2.4 million and plan to spend $12.5 million for capitalized costs. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Commitments - Capital Expenditures.” The following is a summary of our properties by major province as of December 31, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
(a)
Includes the Williston Basin located in North Dakota and Montana and the Powder River Basin located in Wyoming.
(b)
Capital expenditures for drilling, land and seismic in 2008 for West Texas & Other includes capital associated with the Barnett Shale.
(c)
The standardized measure for our proved reserves at December 31, 2008, was $279.3 million. See “- Reconciliation of Standardized Measure to Pre-tax PV10%” for a definition of pre-tax PV10% and a reconciliation of our standardized measure to our pre-tax PV10% value.
Rocky Mountains Province
We regularly evaluate opportunities to expand our activities to areas that may offer attractive exploration and development potential, with a particular interest in those plays that complement our current exploration, development and production activities. In late 2005, we began accumulating acreage in the Williston Basin located in North Dakota and Montana and in early 2006 entered into a joint venture agreement in the Powder River Basin located in Wyoming. During 2008, we invested approximately $121.0 million in drilling, land and seismic in the Williston and Powder River Basins. During 2008, we spud 56 gross wells in the province with six wells completing and five wells still drilling at year-end.
Williston Basin
The Williston Basin is spread across North Dakota, Montana and parts of southern Canada with the United States portion of the basin encompassing approximately 143,000 square miles. The basin produces oil and gas from numerous producing horizons including, but not limited to, the Bakken, Three Forks and Red River formations, which are currently our primary objectives.
The Bakken is an unconventional oil shale play at depths of approximately 8,500 to 10,500 feet that is primarily exploited via horizontal drilling and advanced completion techniques. Advanced completion techniques include the use of swell packers and multi-stage fracture stimulations, which help to fracture the shales and increase oil flow to the well bore. To date, much of the Bakken drilling in North Dakota has occurred east of the Nesson Anticline in and around Mountrail County. Additional activity is ongoing south of the Nesson Anticline in Dunn County and permitting and drilling activity has accelerated west of the Nesson Anticline in McKenzie and Williams Counties, North Dakota.
The Three Forks appears to be a unconventional carbonate play that lies just below the Bakken. Similar to the Bakken, the Three Forks is primarily exploited using horizontal drilling and advanced completion techniques. Drilling in the Three Forks began in mid-2008 and a number of operators including ourselves are targeting this objective. Drilling in this objective is early, but initial results appear to indicate that the Three Forks is apparently a separate reservoir from the Bakken and thereby increases our exposure to oil reserves in the basin. Over time, further drilling of both Bakken and Three Forks wells in the same section will help to delineate whether the Bakken and Three Forks are separate reservoirs.
The Red River is a conventional oil resource at a depth of approximately 12,000 feet. The Red River is exploited via vertical well bores with minimal completion procedures. Targets are identified using 3-D seismic attribute analysis which we believe is a propriety methodology. Since late 2007, we have drilled and completed three Red River discoveries in Sheridan County, Montana.
In January 2008, we completed a number of operated wells including the Bergstrom Family Trust 26 #1H, which was our first well east of the Nesson Anticline in Mountrail County, North Dakota, the Hynek 2 #1H and the Bakke 23 #1H.
In March 2008, we completed the operated Hallingstad 27 #1H, which is located approximately one mile west of the Bergstrom Family Trust 26 #1H well.
After completing the Hallingstad 27 #1H, we moved our rig to a location proximal to the Hynek 2 #1H to drill the operated Manitou State 36 #1H.
In July 2008, we successfully completed the sidetrack of our operated Mrachek 15-22 #1H well, located west of the Nesson Anticline in McKenzie County, North Dakota. The Mrachek was completed using seven fracture stimulations and we experienced significantly improved results as compared to the Field 18-19 1-H and Erickson 8-17 1-H, which are also west of the Nesson Anticline. The Field and Erickson were drilled and completed using one large fracture stimulation in the second half of 2006 and were our first horizontal Bakken wells. We believe the improved well results west of the Nesson are attributable to improved completion techniques that incorporated swell packers and multiple stage fracture stimulations.
In July 2008, we also successfully completed our operated Johnson 33 #1H in the North Stanley area of Mountrail County, North Dakota, which is approximately 12 miles northeast of our Manitou State well. The Johnson 33 #1H was completed with a 10 stage fracture stimulation.
In late July, we successfully completed our operated Carkuff 22 #1H, which was completed with a 12 stage fracture stimulation. The Carkuff 22 #1H is located approximately one mile west of the Bakke 23 #1H which was completed with 7 fracture stimulations. We believe the improvement in the initial production rate of the Carkuff relative to the Bakke is attributable to the increase number of fracture stimulation stages as well as the use of the perf and plug completion technique versus the sliding sleeve technique.
In October, we successfully completed our first Three Forks test, the Adix 25 #1H, which is located approximately one mile southeast of the Bakke 23 #1H. The Adix 25 #1H, at that point, represented our fifth consecutive completion in the Ross Area. The four prior completions were in the Bakken formation.
In late October 2008, a number of our higher working interest non-operated wells were completed in the Parshall/Austin area of Mountrail County, North Dakota. We participated with a 25% working interest in the EOG Austin 25-35H and participated with a 25% working interest in the EOG Wayzetta 13-01H. We also participated with a 18% working interest in the Slawson Payara #1-2H. Also in late October, we successfully completed our Kvamme 2 #1H, which we operated with a 50% working interest.
In February 2009, we announced the successful completion of our operated Olson 10-15 #1H, a long lateral, approximately 9,000 feet, completed with 20 fracture stimulations. The Olson well is located between the Field 18-19H and Erickson 8-17H in Williams County. We own a 100% working interest and an approximate 80% revenue interest in the well. Another late 2008 long lateral Bakken well, our operated Figaro 29-32 #1H well, is located in McKenzie County and is waiting on completion.
Also in February 2009, we announced the successful completion of our operated Friedrich Trust 31 #1, a Red River well located approximately 1 mile from our Richardson 25 #1 in Sheridan County, Montana. The well was successfully drill-stem tested with 100% oil collected in the test chamber. We own a 77% working interest and an approximate 59% revenue interest in the Friedrich Trust. The well is expected to come on-line to production by the end of March.
Subsequent to drilling the Olson and Figaro, we moved both of our operated rigs east of the Nesson Anticline to drill the Strobeck 27-34 #1H, which will be a Three Forks test completed with twenty fracture stimulation stages, and the Anderson 28-33 #1H, which will be a Bakken well. The Strobeck 27-34 #1H is located less than two miles west of the Adix 25 #1H. The Anderson 28-33 #1H will be a long lateral well and we also plan to complete the well with 20 fracture stimulation stages. The Anderson 28-33 #1H is located approximately 2 miles west of our Carkuff 22 #1H. We are awaiting declines in service costs prior to completing both the Strobeck and Anderson wells.
During 2009, we currently expect to spend approximately $21.2 million to drill and complete wells that were in progress at year end and on other activities. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Commitments - Overview of Activity.”
Powder River Basin
In February 2006, we signed a letter of intent to acquire a 50% working interest in an unconventional shale play in the Powder River Basin located in Wyoming. Eighteen vertical wells in the area, which date as far back as 1951, targeted the approximate 175 foot Mowry shale at depths of about 7,500 feet. Individual wells produced between 8 to 189 barrels of oil per day. Our obligations to carry our partners for the drilling and completion of two horizontal wells and $1.0 million of land acquisition costs were fulfilled in 2007 resulting in us earning a 50% working interest in approximately 54,000 net acres. In 2008, we spent $3.6 million in the Powder River Basin.
In November 2007, we spud the Krejci Federal #1-32H well, which is proximate to our first well in the basin, the Krejci Federal 29 #3H. In June, we announced that the well was flowing approximately 25 barrels of oil per day. We do not currently have any plans to drill additional wells in the Powder River Basin.
Onshore Gulf Coast Province
Our Onshore Gulf Coast province is a high potential, multi-pay province that lends itself to 3-D seismic exploration due to its substantial structural and stratigraphic complexity. In addition, certain sand reservoirs display seismic “bright spots,” which can be direct hydrocarbon indicators and can result in greatly reduced drilling risk. However, “bright spots” are not always reliable as direct hydrocarbon indicators and do not generally assess reservoir productivity. We believe our established 3-D seismic exploration approach, combined with our exploration staff’s extensive experience and accumulated knowledge base in the Onshore Gulf Coast province, provides us with significant competitive advantages.
Key operating trends within this province include the Vicksburg trend in Brooks County, Texas, the Miocene and Upper Oligocene trends in Southern Louisiana and the Frio trend in and around Matagorda County, Texas.
Over the three year period ended December 31, 2008, approximately 43% of our total capital expenditures for drilling, land and seismic were allocated to our Onshore Gulf Coast province, where we completed 24 gross wells (18.6 net) in 34 attempts for a completion rate of 71%.
During 2008, we completed five gross wells (4.0 net) in six attempts for a completion rate of 83% in this province. Four of the five completed wells were development wells. We also had one exploratory well that was drilling as of December 31, 2008. Subsequent to year-end, this well was plugged and abandoned. We operated 100% of the wells that we drilled in this province during 2008. For 2008, we spent $46.0 million on drilling, land and seismic in our Onshore Gulf Coast province. Approximately 37% of the drilling, land and seismic was allocated to the Vicksburg, 59% to Southern Louisiana, 2% to the Frio and 2% to other areas in the province.
For 2009, we currently plan to spend $5.3 million in our Onshore Gulf Coast province. Approximately $5.0 million of this spending has been allocated to drilling, with the remaining $0.3 million allocated to capital spending for land and seismic activities. We anticipate that approximately 40% of the drilling, land and seismic will be allocated to the Southern Louisiana, 49% to the Frio, and 11% to other areas in the province.
Vicksburg Trend
Our Vicksburg activity is focused principally in Brooks County, Texas, in our Home Run, Triple Crowne, and Floyd Fields. We discovered these fields in 1999, 2001 and 2002, respectively. Since 1999, we have drilled 43 Vicksburg wells and we have completed 41 of those wells. We believe we have a multi-year inventory of proved, probable and possible drilling locations in our Home Run, Triple Crown and Floyd Fault Block Fields.
Subsequent to completing the Sullivan C-36 in August 2007, we temporarily halted drilling activity in the Vicksburg in order to have time to reprocess our 3-D seismic and update our structural interpretation of the fields. In February 2008, we resumed our Vicksburg drilling program and spud the Floyd Field Sullivan C-38, a development well, which was an attempt to extend the prolific Floyd fault block to the north. In April 2008, we completed the well.
In June 2008, we successfully completed the Sullivan in our Triple Crowne Field from the Dawson Sand.
Subsequent to the, we completed the Sullivan C-39 in our Home Run Field. The Sullivan C-39 was completed in the Vicksburg 8 and Lower Vicksburg 7 intervals. The best apparent pay, in the Vicksburg 6 and Upper 7 intervals, remains behind pipe for future completion.
Southern Louisiana Trend
In Southern Louisiana, we utilize our geophysical, geological and operational expertise to explore for hydrocarbon bearing Miocene and Oligocene reservoirs. These reservoirs are generally on trend with the Texas Gulf Coast Frio and are therefore logical extensions of our drilling activities. During 2008, we drilled six wells with drilling, land and seismic expenditures totaling $27.2 million.
In December 2007, we entered into a joint venture with Clayton Williams Energy Inc. to operate the drilling of at least five prospects over the subsequent 18 months, earning a 50% working interest. Five prospects were planned for 2008 targeting 3-D delineated, primarily amplitude related, prospects at depths of 9,000 to 10,500 feet in Plaquemines and Saint Bernard Parish.
In July, we announced our first joint venture well, the Main Pass SL 18826 #1, encountered approximately 100 feet of apparent Miocene pay in four intervals at depths of between 7,140 and 7,680 feet. All intervals were commingled and commenced production to sales in early December.
Our second joint venture well, the Chandeleur Sound SL 19312 #1, encountered approximately 24 feet of apparent pay. The Chandeleur Sound SL 19312 #1 was flow tested in July at a rate of approximately 2.7 MMcf of natural gas per day. The Chandeleur Sound well commenced production to sales in January 2009.
Our third joint venture well, the Breton Sound SL 19054 #1, was logged in July and encountered approximately 60 feet of apparent pay. Approximately 15 feet of the pay has apparent porosities greater than 20%, while 45 feet of apparent pay has porosities ranging from 18 to 20%. In September, we announced the Breton Sound SL 19054 #1 was production tested at an initial rate of approximately 6 MMcf of natural gas per day. The Breton Sound well is expected to commence production to sales in late March or early April.
Our fourth joint venture well, the Romere Pass BLM 013045 #1, was plugged and abandoned as the target sands were wet. Our fifth joint venture well, the Tiger Pass SL 18877#1, was drilling at year-end and was subsequently plugged and abandoned.
In September, we successfully drilled and completed the Cotten Land #5, which is a joint venture well with Penn Virginia Corporation. The Cotten Land #5 is a twin to our high production rate Cotten Land #3 discovery and targeted the upper 50 feet of apparent pay which remains behind pipe in the Cotten Land #3. The Cotten Land #5 was brought on line in October.
In 2009, we plan to spend approximately $2.1 million to complete wells in progress at December 31, 2008 and for other activities. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Commitments - Overview of Activity.”
Anadarko Basin Province
The Anadarko Basin is located in the Texas Panhandle and Western Oklahoma. We believe this prolific natural gas producing province offers a combination of relatively lower risk exploration and development opportunities in shallower horizons, as well as higher risk, but higher reserve potential opportunities in the deeper sections that have been relatively under explored. We believe our drilling program in the Anadarko Basin generally provides us with longer life reserves and helps to balance our drilling program in our prolific, but generally shorter reserve life Onshore Gulf Coast province.
The stratigraphic and structural objectives in the Anadarko Basin can provide excellent targets for 3-D seismic imaging. In addition, drilling economics in the Anadarko Basin are enhanced by the multi-pay nature of many of the prospects, with secondary or tertiary targets serving as either incremental value or as alternatives if the primary target zone is not productive. Our recent activity has been focused primarily in the Hunton, Springer Channel, Springer Bar and Granite Wash trends. However, we currently do not anticipate spending any drilling capital in the Anadarko Basin in 2009.
West Texas and Other Province
The Permian Basin of West Texas and Eastern New Mexico is a predominantly oil producing province with generally longer life reserves than that of our onshore Gulf Coast. Our drilling activity in our West Texas province has been focused primarily in various carbonate reservoirs, including the Canyon Reef and Fusselman formations of the Horseshoe Atoll trend, the Canyon Reef of the Eastern Shelf, the Wolfcamp and Devonian section of New Mexico, and the Mississippian Reef of the Hardeman Basin, at depths ranging from 7,000 to 13,000 feet.
During 2008, we completed four gross well in four attempts for a 100% completion rate and spent a total of $2.7 million on drilling, land and seismic. We currently do not anticipate spending any drilling capital in West Texas in 2009.
Title to Properties
We believe we have satisfactory title, in all material respects, to substantially all of our producing properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and natural gas industry. Our properties are subject to royalty interests, standard liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other burdens, which we believe do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties. Substantially all of our proved oil and natural gas properties are pledged as collateral for borrowings under our senior credit agreement. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Senior Credit Agreement” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - 9 5/8% Senior Notes due 2014.”
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
Our estimated total net proved reserves of oil and natural gas as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, pre-tax PV10% value, standardized measure and the estimated future development cost attributable to these reserves as of those dates were as follows.
(a)
See “- Reconciliation of Standardized Measure to Pre-tax PV10%” for a definition of pre-tax PV10% and a reconciliation of our standardized measure to our pre-tax PV10% value.
(b)
These base prices were adjusted to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials on a well-by-well basis to arrive at realized sales prices used to estimate our reserves at these dates.
The reserve estimates reflected above were prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc., our independent petroleum consultants, and are part of reports on our oil and natural gas properties prepared by them.
In accordance with applicable requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), estimates of our net proved reserves and future net revenues are made using sales prices estimated to be in effect as of the date of such reserve estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties (except to the extent a contract specifically provides for escalation). Estimated quantities of net proved reserves and future net revenues there from are affected by oil and natural gas prices, which have fluctuated widely in recent years. However, the SEC recently adopted final rules amending its oil and gas reporting requirements. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - SEC Rulemaking.”
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve data set forth in the Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. report represents only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geologic interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by us, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and other factors. The revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered and are highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. Our estimated net proved reserves, included in our SEC filings, have not been filed with or included in reports to any other federal agency. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors - Although our oil and gas reserve data is independently estimated, these estimates may still prove to be inaccurate.”
Estimates with respect to net proved reserves that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves rather than actual production history. Estimates based on these methods are generally less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history will result in variations in the estimated reserves that may be substantial.
Reconciliation of Standardized Measure to Pre-tax PV10%
Pre-tax PV10% is the estimated present value of the future net revenues from our proved oil and natural gas reserves before income taxes discounted using a 10% discount rate. Pre-tax PV10% is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations because it does not include the effects of future income taxes, as is required in computing the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows. We believe that pre-tax PV10% is an important measure that can be used to evaluate the relative significance of our oil and natural gas properties and that pre-tax PV10% is widely used by securities analysts and investors when evaluating oil and natural gas companies. Because many factors that are unique to each individual company impact the amount of future income taxes to be paid, the use of a pre-tax measure provides greater comparability of assets when evaluating companies. We believe that most other companies in the oil and natural gas industry calculate pre-tax PV10% on the same basis. Pre-tax PV10% is computed on the same basis as the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows but without deducting income taxes. The table below provides a reconciliation of our standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows to our pre-tax PV10% value (in millions).
Drilling Activities
We drilled, or participated in the drilling of, the following wells during the periods indicated.
(a)
Excludes two (1.3 net) exploratory wells and four (1.4 net) development wells that were drilling and one (0.5 net) exploratory well and seven (3.0 net) development wells that were completing.
(b)
Excludes two (0.6 net) exploratory wells and two (1.0 net) development wells that were drilling and four (2.2 net) development wells that were completing at year end.
(c)
Excludes three (1.9 net) exploratory and two (0.8 net) development wells that were completing and one (0.4 net) development well that was drilling at year end.
We do not own drilling rigs and all of our drilling activities have been conducted by independent contractors or by industry participant operators under standard drilling contracts.
Productive Wells and Acreage
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth our ownership interest at December 31, 2008 in productive oil and natural gas wells in the areas indicated. Wells are classified as oil or natural gas according to their predominant production stream. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we have an interest, and net wells are determined by multiplying gross wells by our average working interest.
Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including wells waiting on pipeline connection. Wells that are completed in more than one producing horizon are counted as one well. Of the gross wells reported above, two had multiple completions.
Acreage
Undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. The following table sets forth the approximate developed and undeveloped acreage that we held a leasehold interest in at December 31, 2008.
(a)
Does not include acreage for which assignments have not been received.
All of our leases for undeveloped acreage summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless we renew the existing leases, we establish production from the acreage, or some other “savings clause” is exercised. The following table sets forth the minimum remaining lease terms for our gross and net undeveloped acreage.
In addition, as of December 31, 2008, we had mineral interests covering approximately 5,825 gross and 5,211 net acres. The mineral acres will continue into perpetuity and will not expire.
In addition, as of December 31, 2008, we had lease options and rights of first refusal to acquire 3,775 additional acres. If not exercised, all of those options will expire by the end of 2009.
Volumes, Prices and Production Costs
The following table sets forth our production volumes, the average prices we received before hedging, the average prices we received including hedging settlement gains (losses), the average price including hedging settlements and unrealized gains (losses) and average production costs associated with our sale of oil and natural gas for the periods indicated. On October 1, 2006, we de-designated all derivatives that were previously classified as cash flow hedges and as a result, we mark-to-market these derivatives. In addition, all subsequent derivatives are undesignated and therefore subject to mark-to-market accounting. Mark-to-market accounting requires that we record both derivative settlements and unrealized gains (losses) to the consolidated statement of operations within a single income statement line item. We have elected to include both derivative settlements and unrealized gains (losses) within revenue. As such, unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives are no longer included within either other comprehensive income or other income (expense) and are therefore reflected in revenue.
Item 3.