Item 2.
Properties
Our exploration and development activities are focused primarily in the onshore Texas Gulf Coast, the Anadarko Basin of northwest Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle, and West Texas. We focus our activity in provinces where we believe 3-D seismic technology can be effectively used to maximize our return on capital invested by reducing drilling risk and enhancing our ability to cost-effectively grow reserves and production volumes.
The historical financial information in this section pertaining to depletion expense and accumulated depletion that are a part of our net proved oil and natural gas properties, has been restated. For a further discussion of the impact of the restatement on our selected financial information, see “Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data,” “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 2” and “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.”
For the three-year period ended December 31, 2004, we completed 109 gross wells (42.4 net) in 120 attempts for a completion rate of 91% at an average all-sources finding cost of $3.69 per Mcfe. We had one exploration well that began drilling in 2004 and is currently in progress. For 2005, we have budgeted approximately $70.3 million to drill 20 development wells and 17 exploratory wells, to drill and complete wells that were in progress at December 31, 2004 and for other development activities. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Commitments - Capital Expenditures.” The following is a summary of our properties by major province as of December 31, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
(a)
Standardized measure at December 31, 2004, was $239.7 million.
Onshore Texas Gulf Coast
The onshore Texas Gulf Coast region is a high potential, multi-pay province that lends itself to 3-D seismic exploration due to its substantial structural and stratigraphic complexity. In addition, certain sand reservoirs display seismic “bright spots,” which can be direct hydrocarbon indicators and can result in greatly reduced drilling risk. However, “bright spots” are not always reliable as direct hydrocarbon indicators and do not generally assess reservoir productivity. We believe our established 3-D seismic exploration approach, combined with our exploration staff’s extensive experience and accumulated knowledge base in this province, particularly given our recent drilling successes, provides us with significant
competitive advantages. The majority of our onshore Texas Gulf Coast activity is currently concentrated in the Vicksburg and Frio trends.
Over the past three years approximately 64% of our total capital expenditures for drilling, land and seismic have been allocated to our onshore Texas Gulf Coast region where we have completed 41 gross wells (21.4 net) in 46 attempts for a completion rate of 89%. Production from our onshore Texas Gulf Coast province represented 61% of our average daily production in 2004, up from 53% in 2002.
During 2004, we completed 16 gross wells (10.3 net) in 19 attempts for a completion rate of 84% in this province. Ten of these wells were exploratory, nine were developmental and we operated 17 of the 19 wells that we drilled.
During 2004, we spent $48.5 million on drilling, land and seismic in our onshore Texas Gulf Coast province. For 2005, we are currently planning to spend approximately $52.8 million on drilling, land and seismic. Approximately 17% of this will be allocated to land and seismic expenditures with the remaining 83% allocated to the drilling of wells and other development activities. Approximately $17 million of our planned drilling expenditures will be allocated to drill seven exploration wells with an average working interest of 64% and to drill and complete wells that were in progress at December 31, 2004. The remaining $26.8 million of our 2005 drilling expenditures will be allocated to drill ten development wells with an average working interest of 65% and other development drilling activities.
Within the Gulf Coast, approximately 24% of our 2004 drilling capital expenditures were allocated to the Vicksburg trend and 27% were allocated to the Frio trend. In 2004, our development drilling was focused principally in the Vicksburg trend in Brooks County, Texas in our Home Run, Floyd Fault Block and Floyd South Fields. In addition, we significantly increased our working interest and net reserves in the Triple Crown Field with the successful completion of our Triple Crown North well, the D. J. Sullivan C #30. Our decision to drill the D. J. Sullivan C #30 late in 2004 coincided with the closing of a joint venture with an industry participant, where we were able to increase our working interest from 34% to 57.5% in 780 acres on the northeast side of our Diablo Project. Much of our exploratory activity in the Vicksburg trend has been driven by other similar joint ventures with our industry participant, which has substantial acreage holdings in the area. We expect to drill up to eight development wells in the Triple Crown North joint venture area of the Triple Crown Field over the next several years. We also expect to drill up to four development wells on acreage adjacent to our Triple Crown Field. Two additional joint ventures with the same industry participant resulted in two unsuccessful wells drilled in 2004. The Sullivan E #1 was drilled in early 2004 as part of a joint venture where we had the opportunity to earn an interest in 4,353 acres in an untested fault block on the southeast side of our Diablo Project. The D. J. Sullivan A #1 was drilled in late 2004 as part of a joint venture where we had the opportunity to earn an interest in approximately 1,000 acres on an untested Vicksburg structure several miles to the east of our Diablo Project. We do not anticipate drilling additional wells as part of either of these two joint ventures at the present time. However, we continue to have discussions with our industry participant about other exploratory joint venture opportunities in the area, and expect to continue to expand our activities in the trend.
In total, we drilled six Vicksburg trend wells during 2004, including two exploratory and four development wells. For 2005, we currently plan to spend $14.7 million to drill five development wells in our Home Run, Floyd Fault Block and Triple Crown Fields, to drill and complete wells that were in progress at December 31, 2004 and for other development activities. We will retain an average working interest of 55% in these development wells.
In the Frio trend, we made a new field discovery with the successful completion of our Appling Deep Field discovery well, the Sartwelle #3. The Sartwelle #3 was a deep Frio test in our Bayou Bengal project. Our Bayou Bengal project is a 131 square mile 3-D seismic project located primarily in Calhoun County, Texas that we completed in early 2004. We expect to drill up to six development wells in the Appling Deep Field over the next several years. Through year-end 2004, we had drilled a total of six wells in our Bayou Bengal project, with six wells planned for 2005. Two of these six planned 2005 wells will be deep, higher risk and higher reserve potential Frio tests similar to the Sartwelle #3. As was the case in
2004, in 2005 we will continue to actively drill wells in our other existing Frio 3-D seismic projects including General Patton, Millennium and Jughole. We are currently drilling another of our higher risk and higher reserve potential Frio tests in our Millennium project area which is in the same area in which we discovered our Providence Field in 2001. We retain a 50% working interest in the Wyse #1, which will test the Lower Frio adjacent to the 75 Bcfe Rugely Field. Furthermore, in 2005 we intend to drill exploration wells in two of our recently completed 3-D seismic projects. The first project, our 158 square mile Alamo project, and the second project that began in late 2004 and completed in early 2005, our 120 square mile General Lee project, are both located in the same geographic region as our Bayou Bengal project. We have recently closed on a third new Frio 3-D seismic project, encompassing approximately 33,885 option acres located along the lower Texas Gulf Coast. We expect to begin interpreting 3-D seismic data from this project by the second quarter of 2005, and believe that it is likely that we will have additional drilling projects available in this area later in 2005.
In total, we drilled 13 Frio trend wells during 2004, including eight exploratory and five development wells. For 2005, we have budgeted to spend $26.7 million to drill six exploration wells with an average working interest of 67%, and five development wells with an average working interest of 75%, to drill and complete wells that were in progress at December 31, 2004 and for other development activities.
Anadarko Basin
The Anadarko Basin is located in northwest Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle. We believe this prolific natural gas producing province offers a combination of lower risk exploration and development opportunities in shallower horizons, as well as higher reserve potential in the deeper sections that have been relatively under explored.
We believe our drilling programs in the Anadarko Basin and West Texas generally provide us with longer life reserves and help to balance our drilling program in the prolific, but generally shorter reserve life, onshore Texas Gulf Coast province.
The stratigraphic and structural objectives in the Anadarko Basin can provide excellent targets for 3-D seismic imaging. In addition, drilling economics in the Anadarko Basin are enhanced by the multi-pay nature of many of these prospects, with secondary or tertiary targets serving as either incremental value or as alternatives in the event the primary target zone is not productive. Our recent activity has been focused primarily in the Hunton, Springer Channel and Springer Bar trends. However, given the success of several our recent development wells in our Hobart Granite Wash trend in Hemphill County, Texas, developmental activity in this field could accelerate during the second half of 2005.
Over the past three years approximately 33% of our total capital expenditures for drilling, land and seismic have been allocated to our Anadarko Basin region where we have completed 56 gross wells (17.4 net) in 60 attempts for a completion rate of 93%. We also have one exploration well, the Mills Ranch #2-98 that began drilling in 2004 and is currently in progress. Production from the Anadarko Basin represented 29% of our average daily production in 2004, up from 26% in 2002.
During 2004, we completed 37 gross wells (10.8 net) in 38 attempts for a completion rate of 97%. Five of these wells were exploration wells and 33 were developmental. We operated 10 of the 38 wells that we drilled in the Anadarko Basin in 2004 and are the operator of the Mills Ranch #2-98.
In total, we spent $30.9 million on drilling, land and seismic during 2004 in our Anadarko Basin province. For 2005, we are currently planning to spend approximately $27 million on drilling, land and seismic. Approximately $3.5 million of this will be allocated to land and seismic expenditures, with the remaining $23.5 million allocated to the drilling of wells and other development activities. Approximately $14.8 million of our planned drilling expenditures will be allocated to drill seven exploration wells with an average working interest of 46% and to drill and complete wells that were in progress at December 31, 2004. The remaining $8.7 million of our planned drilling expenditures will be allocated to drill ten development wells with an average working interest of 37% and to other development drilling activities. Furthermore, approximately $12.1 million of our 2005 drilling expenditures budgeted for our Anadarko
Basin province are allocated to the Hunton trend, $5.9 million is allocated to the Springer trends and $4.5 million is allocated to the Granite Wash trend.
Within the Anadarko Basin, approximately 45% of our 2004 capital expenditures were allocated to the Hunton trend, 11% to the Springer trends and 9% to the Granite Wash trend. Within our Hunton trend, our first development well drilled on the eastern end of the roughly five mile long Mills Ranch Field was the Mills Ranch #1-99S. In order to minimize drilling cost, the well was a reentry of a previously abandoned Arbuckle well. The well was spud in January 2004 and was targeting to drill through both the Hunton and Arbuckle formations, reaching an estimated total depth of 24,000’ in the second quarter. Unfortunately in May, after drilling into our primary Hunton pay interval, the drill pipe became stuck and the well had to be sidetracked, requiring us to re-drill approximately 3,000 feet. The sidetracking operation delayed the completion of the well until September and precluded us from reaching our secondary Arbuckle objective. The well was put on production in late September and initially produced at a gross rate of 8.7 MMcfe per day. However, production from the well has declined dramatically and at year-end 2004 the well was only producing 1.0 MMcfe per day. We are currently evaluating what options we have to enhance the performance of the well. A second Mills Ranch Field well, the Mills Ranch #2-98, was spud in November 2004 on the western side of the field where we have completed two prior Hunton wells. This well targets the Arbuckle and shallower potential pay intervals and is expected to reach total depth in the second quarter of 2005. At present, one additional Hunton/ Arbuckle well is scheduled for 2005. This well is a high risk and high reserve potential exploration test of another structure in the area. This well is expected to spud by mid-year and is estimated to reach total depth in the fourth quarter of 2005.
In the Texas panhandle of the Anadarko Basin, we have drilled six recent wells to evaluate the economics of a potentially extensive drilling program in the Granite Wash formation. We have approximately 3,800 contiguous gross acres in the area. Adjacent acreage has and continues to experience extensive drilling by other operators. Most of this acreage has been developed on 40 acre spacing, although some acreage is being developed on 20 acre spacing. We are currently evaluating the results of the five most recently drilled Granite Wash wells, with the last two wells having experienced higher initial producing rates. We currently have three wells budgeted for the area in the second half of 2005. However, should results merit, we may accelerate development of the acreage during the second half of 2005. Development on 40 acre spacing would require up to 90 potential wells, while development on 20 acre spacing could require as many as 180 potential wells.
West Texas
West Texas is predominantly an oil producing province with generally longer life reserves than that of the onshore Texas Gulf Coast. Our drilling activity in our West Texas province has been focused primarily in various carbonate reservoirs, including the Canyon Reef and Fusselman formations of the Horseshoe Atoll trend, the Canyon Reef of the Eastern Shelf, and the Mississippian Reef of the Hardeman Basin, at depths ranging from 7,000 to 13,000 feet.
Over the past three years approximately 3% of our total capital expenditures for drilling, land and seismic have been allocated to our West Texas province where we have completed 12 gross wells (3.6 net) in 14 attempts for a completion rate of 86%. Production from West Texas represented 10% of our average daily production in 2004 down from 21% in 2002.
During 2004 we completed one gross well (0.9 net) in two attempts for a completion rate of 50%. Both of these wells were exploration wells and were operated by us.
In total, we spent $1.8 million on drilling, land and seismic during 2004 in our West Texas province. For 2005, we are currently planning to spend approximately $3.6 million on drilling, land and seismic. Approximately $600,000 of this will be allocated to land and seismic expenditures, $2.9 million will be allocated to drill three exploration wells with an average working interest of 82% and the remainder will be allocated to other development activities.
Given our large inventory of 3-D seismic data in West Texas, our strong historical results in the province, and the currently strong oil prices, we have begun to focus more of our resources on exploiting our West Texas asset base. We expect this more intense focus to positively impact our drilling program by late 2005 and 2006.
3-D Seismic Exploration
We have accumulated 3-D seismic data covering approximately 10,464 square miles (6.7 million acres) in over 28 geologic trends in seven basins and seven states. We typically acquire 3-D seismic data in and around existing producing fields where we can benefit from the imaging of producing analog wells. These 3-D defined analogs, combined with our experience in drilling 651 wells in our 3-D project areas, provide us with a knowledge base to evaluate other potential geologic trends, 3-D seismic projects within these trends and prospective 3-D delineated drilling locations. Through our experience in the early and mid 1990’s, we developed an expertise in the selection of geologic trends that we believe are best suited for 3-D seismic exploration. In 1997 and 1998 we invested approximately $64 million in 3-D seismic and land in plays that we believed were providing optimal 3-D delineated drilling economics. Since 1998 we have continued to add to our 3-D seismic database within our core trends on a more conservative pace. We have used the experience that we have gained within our core trends to enhance the quality of subsequent projects in the same trend and other analogous trends, to lower finding and development costs, to compress project cycle times and to enhance our return on capital.
Over the last fourteen years we have accumulated substantial experience exploring with 3-D seismic in a wide range of reservoir types and geologic trapping mechanisms. In addition, we typically acquire digital data bases for integration on our computer-aided exploration workstations, including digital land grids, well information, log curves, production information, geologic studies, geologic top data bases and existing 2-D seismic data. We use our knowledge base, local geological expertise and digital data bases integrated with 3-D seismic data to create maps of producing and potentially productive reservoirs. As such, we believe our 3-D generated maps are more accurate than previous reservoir maps (which generally are based on subsurface geological information and 2-D seismic surveys), enabling us to more precisely evaluate recoverable reserves and the economic feasibility of projects and drilling locations.
Historically, we have acquired most of our raw 3-D seismic data using seismic acquisition vendors on either a proprietary basis or through alliances affording the alliance members the exclusive right to interpret and use data for extended periods of time. In addition, we have participated in non-proprietary group shoots of 3-D seismic data (commonly referred to as “spec data”) when we believe the expected full cycle project economics were justified, and we have exchanged certain interests in some of our non-core proprietary seismic data to gain access to additional 3-D seismic data. In most of our proprietary 3-D data acquisitions and alliances, we have selected the sites of projects, primarily guided by our knowledge and experience in the core provinces we explore, established and monitored the seismic parameters of each project for which data was shot, and typically selected the equipment that was used.
Combining our geologic and geophysical expertise with a sophisticated land effort, we manage the majority of our projects from conception through 3-D acquisition, processing and interpretation and leasing. In addition, we manage the negotiation and drafting of virtually all of our geophysical exploration agreements, resulting in reduced contract risk and more consistent deal terms. Because we generate most of our projects, we can often control the size of the working interest that we retain as well as the selection of the operator and the non-operating participants. Consistent with our business strategy, we have increased the working interest we retain in our projects, based upon capital availability and perceived risk. Our average working interest in our 3-D seismic projects acquired during 1996, 1997 and 1998 was 37%, 67% and 80%, respectively. The 3-D seismic we acquired during 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002 was primarily through the exchange of certain rights in some of our non-core 3-D seismic projects. Most of these exchanges did not include an industry participant, therefore we retained potentially all interest in any prospects generated from the newly acquired 3-D seismic data.
In early 2003, we acquired approximately 84 square miles of new proprietary 3-D seismic data in our General Patton Project located in the Frio trend of the Upper Texas Gulf Coast. We sold a working interest in this project to an industry participant on a promoted basis and thus retained a 50% working interest in the project. In 2003 and early 2004, we acquired approximately 75 square miles of non-proprietary and 56 square miles of new proprietary 3-D seismic data in our Bayou Bengal project, also located in the Frio trend of the Upper Texas Gulf Coast. We sold a working interest in Bayou Bengal to an industry participant on a promoted basis and retained a 75% working interest.
During 2004, we added approximately 655 square miles of 3-D seismic data to our corporate database. During 2004, we acquired approximately 57 square miles of non-proprietary and 101 square miles of new proprietary 3-D seismic data in our Alamo project located in the Frio trend of the Upper Texas Gulf Coast. We sold a working interest in Alamo to an industry participant on a promoted basis and retained a 75% working interest in the project. In late 2004 and early 2005, we acquired approximately 120 square miles of new proprietary 3-D seismic data in our General Lee project, also located in the Frio trend of the Upper Texas Gulf Coast. We sold a working interest in General Lee to an industry participant on a promoted basis and retained a 75% working interest.
See “ - Onshore Texas Gulf Coast,” “ - Anadarko Basin,” “ - West Texas,” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Commitments - Capital Expenditures” for additional discussion regarding 2005 seismic capital expenditures.
Title to Properties
We believe we have satisfactory title, in all material respects, to substantially all of our producing properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. Our properties are subject to royalty interests, standard liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other burdens, which we believe do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties. Our senior credit facility and senior subordinated notes are secured by first and second liens, respectively, against substantially all of our proved oil and natural gas properties. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Senior Credit Facility” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Commitments - Senior Subordinated Notes.”
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
Our estimated total net proved reserves of oil and natural gas as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, pre-tax PV-10% value, standardized measure and the estimated future development cost attributable to these reserves as of those dates were as follows.
(a)
These base prices were adjusted to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials on a well-by-well basis to arrive at realized sales prices used to estimate our reserves at these dates.
The reserve estimates reflected above were prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc., our independent petroleum consultants, and are part of reports on our oil and natural gas properties prepared by Cawley, Gillespie. We do not report reserve information to any other government agency.
In accordance with applicable requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, estimates of our net proved reserves and future net revenues are made using sales prices estimated to be in effect as of the date of such reserve estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties (except to the extent a contract specifically provides for escalation). Estimated quantities of net proved reserves and future net revenues there from are affected by oil and natural gas prices, which have fluctuated widely in recent years. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve data set forth in the Cawley, Gillespie report represents only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geologic interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by us, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and other factors. The revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered and are highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. Our estimated net proved reserves have not been filed with or included in reports to any federal agency. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Factors - We Are Subject To Uncertainties In Reserve Estimates And Future Net Cash Flows.”
Estimates with respect to net proved reserves that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves rather than actual production history. Estimates based on these methods are generally less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history will result in variations in the estimated reserves that may be substantial.
Drilling Activities
We drilled, or participated in the drilling of, the following number of wells during the periods indicated.
(a)
Excludes one (1.0 net) exploratory well that is currently drilling.
(b)
Excludes one (0.2 net) development well that is productive but is temporarily abandoned. There are no current plans to put this well on production.
We do not own drilling rigs and the majority of our drilling activities have been conducted by independent contractors or by industry participant operators under standard drilling contracts.
Productive Wells and Acreage
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth our ownership interest at December 31, 2004 in productive oil and natural gas wells in the areas indicated. Wells are classified as oil or natural gas wells according to their predominant production stream. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we have an interest, and net wells are determined by multiplying gross wells by our average working interest.
Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including wells waiting on pipeline connection. Wells that are completed in more than one producing horizon are counted as one well. Of the gross wells reported above, two had multiple completions.
Acreage
Undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. The following table sets forth the approximate developed and undeveloped acreage that we held a leasehold interest in at December 31, 2004.
In addition, as of December 31, 2004, we also owned 2,509 gross and 1,826 net mineral acres.
All the leases for the undeveloped acreage summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless the existing leases are renewed, production has been obtained from the acreage subject to the lease prior to that date, or some other “savings clause” is implicated. The following table sets forth the minimum remaining terms of leases for the gross and net undeveloped acreage.
In addition, as of December 31, 2004, we had lease options and rights of first refusal to acquire additional acres. The following table sets forth the expiration year of our options and right of first refusal agreements and the gross and net acres associated with those options and right of first refusal agreements.
Volumes, Prices and Production Costs
The following table sets forth the production volumes, average prices received before hedging, average prices received after hedging and average production costs associated with our sale of oil and natural gas for the periods indicated.
Item 3.