Item 2. Properties
Historically, our exploration and development activities have been focused primarily in the Onshore Gulf Coast, the Anadarko Basin in the Texas Panhandle and western Oklahoma and West Texas. We focus our activity in provinces where we believe technology and the knowledge of our technical staff can be effectively used to maximize our return on invested capital by reducing drilling risk and enhancing our ability to grow reserves and production volumes. We also regularly evaluate opportunities to expand our activities to areas that may offer attractive exploration and development potential, with a particular interest in those plays that complement our current exploration, development and production activities. Recent expansion initiatives include our acquisition of acreage in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming and the Williston Basin of North Dakota and Montana. In 2006, we drilled two horizontal wells on our Powder River Basin acreage and three horizontal wells on our North Dakota Williston Basin acreage. We view these as early investments, which we hope will generate drilling inventory and potential reserves in future years. During 2006, we invested a total of $32.1 million in land, G&G and drilling in the Williston Basin and Powder River Basin. To support our efforts in these new operating areas as well as to evaluate other opportunities in the Rocky Mountains, we opened a small one person satellite office in Denver, Colorado during December 2006. Additionally, we have implemented joint ventures with two operators in Southern Louisiana, which we view as a logical extension of our onshore Texas Gulf Coast activities. During 2006, we drilled a total of eight wells with our two joint venture partners in South Louisiana, spending a total of $17.5 million in the area during 2006.
For the three-year period ended December 31, 2006, we completed 116 gross wells (59.9 net) in 132 attempts for a completion rate of 88%. We also had three exploration wells and three development wells that were completing and one development well that was drilling as of December 31, 2006. For 2007, we plan to spend approximately $91.2 million to drill seven exploration wells and 15 development wells, to drill and complete wells that were in progress at December 31, 2006 and for other development activities. We also plan to spend $11.2 million on land and seismic and $11.5 million for capitalized costs.. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Commitments - Capital Expenditures.” The following is a summary of our properties by major province as of December 31, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
__________
(a)
Includes the Powder River Basin in Wyoming and the Williston Basin in North Dakota and Montana .
(b)
The standardized measure for our proved reserves at December 31, 2006, was $302.7 million. See “- Reconciliation of Standardized Measure to Pre-tax PV10%” for a definition of pre-tax PV10% and a reconciliation of our standardized measure to our pre-tax PV10% value.
Onshore Gulf Coast Province
Our Onshore Gulf Coast province is a high potential, multi-pay province that lends itself to 3-D seismic exploration due to its substantial structural and stratigraphic complexity. In addition, certain sand reservoirs display seismic “bright spots,” which can be direct hydrocarbon indicators and can result in greatly reduced drilling risk. However, “bright spots” are not always reliable as direct hydrocarbon indicators and do not generally assess reservoir productivity. We believe our established 3-D seismic exploration approach, combined with our exploration staff’s extensive experience and accumulated knowledge base in this province, provides us with significant competitive advantages.
Key operating trends within this province include the Vicksburg trend in Brooks County, Texas and the Frio trend in and around Matagorda County, Texas. In addition, during the first quarter 2006 we announced joint ventures with two operators to explore for oil and natural gas in Southern Louisiana. We view Southern Louisiana as a logical extension of our current activities in the onshore Texas Gulf Coast. As such, Southern Louisiana operations have been consolidated within our Onshore Gulf Coast province.
Over the three year period ended December 31, 2006, approximately 57% of our total capital expenditures for drilling, land and seismic were allocated to our Onshore Gulf Coast province, where we completed 45 gross wells (31.8 net) in attempts for a completion rate of 83%.
During 2006, we completed 12 gross wells (9.1 net) in 17 attempts for a completion rate of 71% in this province. Five of the completed wells were exploration wells and seven were development wells. We also had one exploration well and one development well that were completing and one development well that was drilling as of December 31, 2006. We operated 80% of the wells that we drilled in this province during 2006. For 2006, we spent $86.7 million on drilling, land and seismic in our Onshore Gulf Coast province. Approximately 40% of the drilling, land and seismic was allocated to the Vicksburg, 38% to the Frio, 20% to Southern Louisiana, and 2% to other areas in the province.
For 2007, we currently plan to spend a total of $64.5 million in our Onshore Gulf Coast province. Approximately $61.6 million of this spending has been allocated to drilling, with the remaining $2.9 million allocated to capital spending for land and seismic activities. We plan to drill seven development wells and spend approximately $48.9 million on development drilling capital. We also plan to drill two exploration wells and spend $12.7 million on exploration drilling capital.
Vicksburg Trend
Our Vicksburg activity is focused principally in Brooks County, Texas, in our Home Run, Triple Crown, and Floyd Fields. We discovered these fields in 1999, 2001 and 2002, respectively. In 2006, we successfully completed all five of our development drilling wells spud in 2006 including three in the Triple Crown Field, one in the Home Run Field and one in the Floyd Field. Total drilling, land and seismic capital expended in the Vicksburg during 2006 was $34.7 million.
During 2006, we operated all of our Vicksburg drilling, and the working interests we retained in our Vicksburg wells was higher than our historic average as our joint venture participant elected to take a more passive role in the development of the field. Rather than participating in the drilling of the wells with a paying working interest, our joint venture participant elected to receive a reversionary, or back-in working interest, based on certain payout thresholds in all of the 2006 Vicksburg wells. We continue to have discussions with our joint venture participant about other exploratory joint venture opportunities in the area and expect to continue to expand our activities in the trend.
Early in 2006, we successfully completed the Triple Crown Field Sullivan C-32 and Home Run Field Palmer 3S #2, which were carryover wells from the 2005 drilling program, at approximately 1.7 MMcfe per day and 2.3 MMcfe per day, respectively. Thereafter, we completed the Home Run Field Palmer #11 and Triple Crown Field Dawson #3, which produced at initial rates of approximately 5.3 MMcfe per day and 4.7 MMcfe per day, respectively. In August, we completed the Triple Crown Field Dawson #4 well from the 9800’ sands at an initial rate of approximately 3.0 MMcfe per day.
In September, we successfully completed the Triple Crown Field Sullivan, which came on-line at approximately 9.5 MMcfe per day. We encountered four pay zones and are currently producing only out of the deepest zone, the Dawson sand. Our plans are to commingle the remaining three zones after flowing tubing pressures from the Dawson sand subside. The remaining 61 feet of apparent pay includes, from shallowest to deepest, the Brigham, 9800’ and Loma Blanca sands. Production from the Dawson sand indicates the potential for further reserve growth in the Vicksburg, as this is the first well to be completed to sales from this zone.
Also in September, we commenced drilling the Floyd Field Sullivan C-33, an offset to our highly productive Sullivan #10. The Sullivan C-33 was brought on line in January 2007 at a rate of approximately 6.1 MMcf of natural gas and 570 barrels of oil per day (9.5 MMcfe per day). Subsequently, other pay intervals were brought on line and production increased to 10.6 MMcfe per day.
During 2007, we plan to operate a drilling rig on a continuous basis in the Vicksburg. In mid-January, we spud the Dawson #1S, the first of five consecutive Vicksburg wells we expect to drill in 2007. The Dawson #1S is a sidetrack of the previously drilled Dawson #1 and is an east offset to the aforementioned Sullivan. Based on mud logs and wireline logs, the Dawson #1S appears to have encountered roughly comparable 9800’ and Loma Blanca pay to that found in the offsetting wells. We retained a 100% working and 75% net revenue interest in the Dawson #1S. Following the Dawson #1S, we plan to drill the Sullivan C-35 in our Triple Crown Field. This well will test a number of upper Vicksburg pay intervals, and has the potential to prove up significant and additional locations and reserves. We expect the Sullivan C-35 to be followed by the Sullivan #14, which is also a well that could prove up additional development locations in our Triple Crown Field. Following the Sullivan #14, Brigham plans to commence the Sullivan #15, a significant development well in our Home Run Field. The Sullivan #15 appears to be located in a structurally high location at various Lower Vicksburg intervals, and could potentially prove up significant additional locations and reserves. We expect to retain a 100% working interest in the Sullivan #15 subject to a 66% back-in at 350% payout.
During 2007, we plan to spend $33.0 million to drill five development wells, to drill and complete wells that were in progress at December 31, 2006 and for other development activities. We expect to retain an average initial working interest of 100% in these wells. We also expect to spend $1.6 million on land and seismic.
Since 1999, we have drilled 35 Vicksburg wells, and we have completed 33 of those tests. We believe we have a multi-year inventory of drilling locations in our Home Run, Triple Crown and Floyd Fault Block Fields, and we expect to add to this inventory in 2007.
Frio Trend
During 2006, we drilled seven wells that targeted the Frio, including four exploratory and three development wells. Drilling, land and seismic capital expenditures for 2006 totaled $32.4 million.
The Sartwelle #4 was completed in the middle Frio and encountered 22 feet of apparent pay in a fault block that is estimated to be 320 acres. Production commenced in April 2006 at approximately 2.6 MMcfe per day. The Trull B #3 encountered 36 feet of apparent pay in various Frio intervals and was brought on-line in June 2006 at 2.8 MMcfe per day.
Our State Tract #109 tested what has been mapped as a 500 acre complex in the lower Frio and encountered 60 feet of apparent Lower Frio pay, with an additional 73 feet of potential pay that will likely be tested at a later date. This exploratory well initially flowed at approximately 2.4 MMcfe per day, but experienced a decline in production and began producing some sand. As a consequence, a frac pac was put in place to enhance production and to limit sand production. Subsequent to the frac pac, the well produced approximately 500 Mcfe per day, with additional potential pay remaining behind pipe for future completion.
In December 2006, we commenced drilling our high potential Frio exploratory test, the Green Ranch #1. In January 2007, after encountering poor sand quality, the well was plugged and abandoned.
In 2007, we currently plan to spend $ 7.7 million to drill one exploration well, to drill and complete wells that were in progress at December 31, 2006 and for other development activities.
Southern Louisiana Trend
In February 2006, we announced two new joint ventures to explore and develop 3-D delineated projects that target the Miocene and upper Oligocene trends located in South Louisiana. We view these projects as a logical extension of our activities in the onshore Texas Gulf Coast. In Southern Louisiana, we will utilize our geophysical, geological and operational expertise to explore for and develop potential Oligocene and Miocene reservoirs directly on trend to that of the Texas Gulf Coast Frio. During 2006, we drilled eight wells in the area with drilling, land and seismic expenditures totaling $17.5 million.
In our Bayou Postillion Project, which is located in Iberia Parish, Louisiana, we operated the drilling of the Cotten Land Corp. #1, with a 41% after casing point working interest. The Cotten Land Corp. #1 encountered 34 feet of apparent pay in a Miocene objective approximately 324 feet high to a down dip producer. The well put on line in September 2006 at an initial rate of approximately 10.1 MMcfe per day and in March 2007 was producing at a rate of approximately 15 MMcfe per day.
In August 2006, we participated in drilling an offset to the Cotten Land #1, the Marie Snyder #1, which found 40 feet of apparent pay. We retain a 13% working interest in the well, which is in the process of being completed.
On December 31, 2006, we spud our Cotton Land #3, which is our second development well in Bayou Postillion. We successfully production tested the Cotten Land #3, which encountered approximately 80 feet of apparent net pay in two intervals. The Cotten Land #3 was tested from the lowest 30 feet of pay at a production rate of 12.9 MMcf of natural gas and 48 barrels of oil per day with strong pressures. Based on the minimal pressure differences between the flowing and shut in tubing pressures, we expect to produce the well at an initial rate between 15 MMcfe and 20 MMcfe per day. Approximately 50 feet of shallower pay will remain behind pipe for future completion. Brigham operates the Cotten Land #3 with an approximate 47% working interest.
During the second quarter 2007, we plan to commence the Cotten Land #2, which is expected to test an apparent new fault block adjacent to the fault block in which Brigham drilled the Cotten Land #1 well. The unrisked reserve potential of this apparent fault block is estimated at approximately 4 to 12 Bcfe. Following the Cotten Land #2, Brigham plans to commence the Cotten Land #4, offsetting Brigham’s previously drilled Cotten Land #1 discovery.
In our Mystic Bayou Project located in St. Martin Parish, Louisiana, we identified at least three apparent fault blocks to test, all three of which we expect to encounter a Miocene objective structurally high to two wells that have combined to produce over 50 Bcfe to date. In November 2006, we commenced drilling of the Williams Land Company #1 on the first of the three prospective fault blocks. In December 2006, the well was plugged and abandoned after encountering tight and wet pay. The remaining two apparent fault blocks remain in inventory, one of which may be drilled in 2007 depending on the post-drill analysis of the Williams Land Company #1 dry hole. In addition, a number of shallow and deeper prospects and leads have been identified in the Mystic Bayou Project.
In 2007, we plan to spend a total of $19.4 million to drill two development wells, one exploration well, to complete wells in progress and for other development activities. We also expected to spend $1.7 million in land and seismic.
Anadarko Basin Province
The Anadarko Basin is located in the Texas Panhandle and Western Oklahoma. We believe this prolific natural gas producing province offers a combination of relatively lower risk exploration and development opportunities in shallower horizons, as well as higher risk, but higher reserve potential opportunities in the deeper sections that have been relatively under explored.
We believe our drilling program in the Anadarko Basin generally provides us with longer life reserves and helps to balance our drilling program in our prolific, but generally shorter reserve life, Onshore Gulf Coast province.
The stratigraphic and structural objectives in the Anadarko Basin can provide excellent targets for 3-D seismic imaging. In addition, drilling economics in the Anadarko Basin are enhanced by the multi-pay nature of many of the prospects, with secondary or tertiary targets serving as either incremental value or as alternatives if the primary target zone is not productive. Our recent activity has been focused primarily in the Hunton trend, Springer Channel and Springer Bar trends and the Granite Wash trend.
During 2006, we drilled ten development and three exploration wells. Of the $51.7 million that we spent on this province in 2006, approximately 69% was allocated to the Hunton trend, 18% was allocated to the Granite Wash trend, 5% was allocated to the Springer trends and 8% to other Anadarko Basin projects. Of our capital spent in the Hunton in 2006, $13.7 million was spent in 2006 to acquire 177 square miles of high resolution 3-D seismic data and land over a portion of Wheeler County, Texas, which includes our Mills Ranch Field as well as ten Hunton exploration prospects.
During 2007, we expect to spend $14.0 million to drill four exploration wells, complete wells that were in progress and on other activities. We also expect to spend $4.4 million on net land and seismic.
Hunton Trend
In January 2006, we commenced operations on a re-entry and sidetrack of the previously drilled Mills Ranch 99 #1S. The Mills Ranch 99 #1S2 reentered and sidetracked out of the Mills Ranch 99 #1S borehole at a depth of approximately 17,000 feet. We subsequently directionally drilled to a depth of approximately 21,000 feet to test the Hunton in what we determined to be in an adjacent fault block and encountered 125 feet of apparent pay. The well came on-line at approximately 6.0 MMcfe per day and in January 2007 was producing at a rate of approximately 1.8 MMcfe per day.
In March 2006, we commenced the drilling of the Mills Ranch #1-96, a development well on the westernmost end of the Mills Ranch field. The well was drilled to a depth of approximately 25,000 feet and offsets our Mills Ranch #1-97 well, which since December 2000 has produced approximately 6 Bcfe and is expected to ultimately produce approximately 15 Bcfe. Completion of the well was delayed due to operational complexities, primarily related to a mixed stream of water and gas from two different producing zones. The water bearing zone was isolated and production was tested from the Viola, the deepest producing interval in the well, which came on line at 8.3 MMcfe per day and then decreased to 3.0 MMcfe per day. We are preparing to perforate and stimulate the upper Chimney Hill, Haragan and Henryhouse Hunton intervals, which appear to be comparable pay intervals to the Mills Ranch #1-97 well discussed above. After production is established in the Hunton pay intervals, we expect to commingle these intervals with the Viola producing interval. We operate the Mills Ranch #1-96 with an appropriate 68% working interest.
In June 2006, a tubing leak developed in our Mills Ranch 98-2 well. In July 2006, we commenced operations to pull the tubing and remediate the well, but had difficulties in fishing the tubing out of the well. Subsequent to fishing the tubing, we discovered the casing was parted. After further remediation was unsuccessful, it was determined that the best course of action was to sidetrack the well at a later date. As a result, a kick-off plug was set. Prior to developing the tubing leak, the well was producing approximately 3.3 MMcfe per day.
Granite Wash Trend
In February 2006, we commenced the Hobart 59-2, which upon completion came on-line at approximately 3.4 MMcfe per day. Although no additional wells in our 4,000 acre contiguous held by production acreage block were drilled in 2006 or are scheduled for 2007, with strong commodity prices, we could accelerate our Granite Wash drilling program in 2007. Assuming 40 acre spacing, approximately 82 additional locations could be drilled to fully develop our acreage.
Rocky Mountains Province
Powder River Basin
In February 2006, we signed a letter of intent to acquire a 50% working interest in an unconventional shale play in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming. Vertical wells in the area, which date as far back as 1951, targeted shales approximately 175 feet thick at a depth of about 7,500 feet. Approximately 18 of these wells were completed in the targeted shale and produced between 8 to 189 barrels of oil per day. Given the historical results, we believe the application of horizontal drilling technology and / or advanced fracture stimulation could significantly increase the productivity of the shale zone. To earn a 50% working interest in approximately 54,000 net acres that our joint venture partners had accumulated in the play, we carried the drilling and completion costs of the first two wells for our partners and also paid the first $1 million of incremental land acquisition costs. The vast majority of our obligations to carry our partners for drilling, completion and land acquisition costs were fulfilled in 2006. As of December 31, 2006, we hold a total of over approximately 120,000 gross and 60,000 net acres in the play, located primarily in Niobrara County, Wyoming.
Our first well in the play, the Krejci Federal 29#3H, was spud at the end of July 2006. We are currently conducting varied and extensive production tests to evaluate the effectiveness of different completion methodologies. Initially, we tested only the last 219 feet of the approximate 1,600 foot lateral, which was not cased. Subsequent to fracture stimulation and hook up to a rod pump, the Krejci was producing between 120 and 160 barrels of oil per day from the outer 219 feet of the lateral. In late December, we began operations to test the innermost 1,381 foot cased portion of the well. We perforated and fractured stimulated three different intervals in this portion of the well bore and the well produce significant volumes of load water and between 50 and 90 barrels of oil per day. We drilled out the temporary plug to commingle production and installed a submersible pump. Pump problems, however, have prevented us from obtaining a stabilized rate. We expect to reinstall a submersible pump or install a more conventional rod pump.
We are currently in the process of completing our second well in the area, the Mills Trust #1-12. The well was drilled to a vertical depth of approximately 7,600 feet and then a 1,300 foot lateral was drilled. Casing was set on the first feet of the lateral. The outermost 415 feet of the lateral was left uncased. We fracture stimulated the outer 415 feet of the lateral and installed pumping equipment. After stimulation, the well produced approximately 120 barrels of load water and barrels of oil, with 400 to 500 barrels of load water remaining to be recovered. Subsequent to testing the open hole section, Brigham will production test the remaining 885 feet of the lateral which is currently behind production casing. Subsequent to completion testing in this part of the well bore, we will test the innermost 885 feet of the well bore.
In 2006, we spent $9.5 million in the Powder River Basin to complete the two aforementioned horizontal wells, to drill two other unsuccessful shallow vertical exploration wells targeting other primary objectives and to acquire land and seismic data. Beginning in March, we currently plan on committing a rig full time to the development of our Mowry acreage. In 2007, we anticipate spending approximately $14.5 million to drill eight wells, to acquire additional acreage and conduct additional seismic delineation testing.
Williston Basin
On November 1, 2005, we spent approximately $4.6 million to acquire a 100% working interest in approximately 46,000 net acres in McKenzie and Williams Counties in North Dakota. Since then, we have acquired significant additional acreage, and as of December 31, 2006 we had approximately 120,000 gross and net acres under lease. Of this acreage, approximately 55,000 net acres are in North Dakota, with approximately 65,000 net acres in Roosevelt and Sheridan Counties, Montana.
The Bakken is an unconventional oil play at a depth of approximately 10,500 feet. Within a 324 square mile area of Richland County, Montana, approximately 227 Bakken wells have generated average initial production rates of approximately 345 barrels of oil per day, average cumulative production to date of approximately 112,000 barrels of oil per well, and estimated ultimate recoveries of approximately 376,000 barrels of oil per well based on data compiled from external sources.
Our current drilling activities are approximately 25 miles east of the ongoing Bakken activity in Richland County, Montana. Our original three well program consisted of wells approximately 10,600 feet deep with single long laterals of approximately 8,000 feet. In 2006, we spent $22.7 million on drilling, land and seismic. Approximately $17.5 million was allocated to the drilling of three pilot wells in North Dakota.
The first well, the Field 18-19 1-H, was spud in May 2006 and subsequent to stimulation and installation of a rod pump, came on-line at approximately 200 barrels of oil per day. By December 2006, the well appeared to have stabilized at between and 70 barrels of oil per day. Our second well, the Mracheck 15-22 1-H, was hooked up to a rod pump prior to stimulation and recently was producing approximately 30 barrels of oil per day. A fracture stimulation of the well is planned for this spring. The third well, the Erickson 8-17 1-H, was fracture stimulated and initially produced at approximately 200 barrels of oil per day, but quickly declined to a rate of approximately 45 barrels of oil per day. Frac sand was apparently inhibiting production. In January 2007 we commenced operations to clean out the lateral and hook the well up to a rod pump for further production testing. After cleaning out the lateral, the well produced up to 227 barrels of oil per day and then declined to 82 barrels per day.
In 2007, we anticipate spending approximately $2.6 million to complete wells in progress and acquire land and seismic. We are currently evaluating the feasibility of drilling a tri-lateral well on our North Dakota acreage, but will monitor activity by other operators in the areas either currently drilling or planning to drill tri-laterals. Depending on the drilling success that other operators have in the vicinity of our North Dakota acreage, we may commence a tri-lateral, dual lateral or single lateral well during the second half of 2007. In addition, we may form an area of mutual interest around a portion of our substantial Montana acreage position and bring in a joint venture participant to potentially recoup a portion of our costs, fund a seismic shoot, and fund a portion of our drilling and completion costs, in order to accelerate activity over some of our acreage.
West Texas and Other Province
The Permian Basin of West Texas and Eastern New Mexico is a predominantly oil producing province with generally longer life reserves than that of our onshore Gulf Coast. Our drilling activity in our West Texas province has been focused primarily in various carbonate reservoirs, including the Canyon Reef and Fusselman formations of the Horseshoe Atoll trend, the Canyon Reef of the Eastern Shelf, the Wolfcamp and Devonian section of New Mexico, and the Mississippian Reef of the Hardeman Basin, at depths ranging from 7,000 to 13,000 feet.
Over the past three years, approximately 3% of our total capital expenditures for drilling, land and seismic have been allocated to our West Texas province where we have completed five gross wells (3.8 net) in eight attempts for a completion rate of 63%.
During 2006, we completed two gross wells (0.9 net) in three attempts for a completion rate of 67%. All three of these wells were exploration wells, with two of the three operated by a private operator. The Pink Floyd and Pink Champagne wells in the Canyon Reef play came on-line at approximately 100 and 65 Bopd, respectively.
For 2007, we currently plan to spend approximately $2.4 million on drilling, land and seismic.
3-D Seismic Exploration
We have accumulated 3-D seismic data covering approximately 11,337 square miles (7.3 million acres) in ten states. We typically acquire 3-D seismic data in and around existing producing fields where we can benefit from the imaging of producing analog wells. These 3-D defined analogs, combined with our experience in drilling 731 wells, the majority of which were imaged utilizing our 3-D seismic data and interpretation, provide us with a knowledge base to evaluate other potential geologic trends, 3-D seismic projects within these trends and prospective 3-D delineated drilling locations. Through our experience in the early and mid 1990’s, we developed an expertise in the selection of geologic trends that we believe are best suited for 3-D seismic exploration. We have used the experience that we have gained within our core trends to enhance the quality of subsequent projects in the same trend and other analogous trends to help lower finding and development costs, compress project cycle times and enhance our return on capital.
Over the last 16 years, we have accumulated substantial experience exploring with 3-D seismic in a wide range of reservoir types and geologic trapping mechanisms. In addition, we typically acquire digital databases for integration on our computer-aided exploration workstations, including digital land grids, well information, log curves, production information, geologic studies, geologic top databases and existing 2-D seismic data. We use our knowledge base, local geological expertise and digital databases integrated with 3-D seismic data to create maps of producing and potentially productive reservoirs. As such, we believe our 3-D generated maps are more accurate than previous reservoir maps (which generally are based on subsurface geological information and 2-D seismic surveys), enabling us to more precisely evaluate recoverable reserves and the economic feasibility of projects and drilling locations.
Historically, we have acquired most of our raw 3-D seismic data using seismic acquisition vendors on either a proprietary basis or through alliances affording the alliance members the exclusive right to interpret and use data for extended periods of time. In addition, we have participated in non-proprietary group shoots of 3-D seismic data (commonly referred to as “spec data”) when we believe the expected full cycle project economics could not justify the acquisition of proprietary data. Further, we have exchanged certain interests in some of our non-core proprietary seismic data to gain access to additional 3-D seismic data. In most of our proprietary 3-D data acquisitions and alliances, we have selected the sites of projects, primarily guided by our knowledge and experience in the core provinces we explore, established and monitored the seismic parameters of each project for which seismic data was acquired, and typically selected the equipment that was used.
Combining our geologic and geophysical expertise with a sophisticated land effort, we manage the majority of our projects from conception through 3-D acquisition, processing and interpretation and leasing. In addition, we manage the negotiation and drafting of virtually all of our geophysical exploration agreements, resulting in reduced contract risk and more consistent deal terms. Because we generate most of our projects, we can often control the size of the working interest that we retain as well as the selection of the operator and the non-operating participants.
During 2004, we added approximately 655 square miles of 3-D seismic data to our corporate database. Of this total, we acquired approximately 57 square miles of non-proprietary and 101 square miles of new proprietary 3-D seismic data in our Alamo project located in the Frio trend of the Upper Texas Gulf Coast. We sold a working interest in Alamo to an industry participant on a promoted basis and retained a 75% working interest in the project. Also included in the 3-D seismic data that we added to our corporate database in 2004 were approximately 120 square miles of new proprietary data we acquired in our General Lee project, which is located in the Frio trend of the Upper Texas Gulf Coast. We sold a working interest in General Lee to an industry participant on a promoted basis and retained a 75% working interest.
During 2005, we added approximately 247 square miles of 3-D seismic data to our corporate database. All 247 square miles of 3-D seismic data acquired were non-proprietary to us. Included in the 3-D seismic data that we added to our corporate database in 2005 was approximately 80 square miles of data in our Mudflats project located in the Frio trend along the Lower Texas Gulf Coast. We retained a 100% working interest in our Mudflats project.
During 2006, we added approximately 637 square miles of 3-D seismic data to our corporate database. Approximately 225 square miles of 3-D seismic data was acquired on a proprietary basis and the remaining 412 square miles was acquired on a non-proprietary basis. Included in the 3-D seismic data that we added to our corporate database in 2006 was approximately 177 square miles of data from our proprietary Laker project, which is in the Hunton trend of our Anadarko Basin. We retained a 100% working interest in our Laker project.
See “- Onshore Gulf Coast Province,” “- Anadarko Basin Province,” “- Rocky Mountains Province,” “- West Texas and Other Province,” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Commitments - Capital Expenditures” for additional discussion regarding our seismic capital expenditures.
Title to Properties
We believe we have satisfactory title, in all material respects, to substantially all of our producing properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and natural gas industry. Our properties are subject to royalty interests, standard liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other burdens, which we believe do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties. Substantially all of our proved oil and natural gas properties are pledged as collateral under first and second liens for borrowings under our senior credit agreement. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Senior Credit Agreement” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - 9 5/8% Senior Notes due 2014.”
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
Our estimated total net proved reserves of oil and natural gas as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, pre-tax PV10% value, standardized measure and the estimated future development cost attributable to these reserves as of those dates were as follows.
(a)
See “- Reconciliation of Standardized Measure to Pre-tax PV10%” for a definition of pre-tax PV10% and a reconciliation of our standardized measure to our pre-tax PV10% value.
(b)
These base prices were adjusted to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials on a well-by-well basis to arrive at realized sales prices used to estimate our reserves at these dates.
The reserve estimates reflected above were prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc., our independent petroleum consultants, and are part of reports on our oil and natural gas properties prepared by them.
In accordance with applicable requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), estimates of our net proved reserves and future net revenues are made using sales prices estimated to be in effect as of the date of such reserve estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties (except to the extent a contract specifically provides for escalation). Estimated quantities of net proved reserves and future net revenues there from are affected by oil and natural gas prices, which have fluctuated widely in recent years. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve data set forth in the Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. report represents only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geologic interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by us, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and other factors. The revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered and are highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. Our estimated net proved reserves, included in our Security and Exchange Commission filings, have not been filed with or included in reports to any other federal agency. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors - Although our oil and gas reserve data is independently estimated, these estimates may still prove to be inaccurate.”
Estimates with respect to net proved reserves that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves rather than actual production history. Estimates based on these methods are generally less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history will result in variations in the estimated reserves that may be substantial.
Reconciliation of Standardized Measure to Pre-tax PV10%
Pre-tax PV10% is the estimated present value of the future net revenues from our proved oil and natural gas reserves before income taxes discounted using a 10% discount rate. Pre-tax PV10% is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations because it does not include the effects of future income taxes, as is required in computing the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows. We believe that pre-tax PV10% is an important measure that can be used to evaluate the relative significance of our oil and natural gas properties and that pre-tax PV10% is widely used by security analysts and investors when evaluating oil and natural gas companies. Because many factors that are unique to each individual company impact the amount of future income taxes to be paid, the use of a pre-tax measure provides greater comparability of assets when evaluating companies. We believe that most other companies in the oil and natural gas industry calculate pre-tax PV10% on the same basis. Pre-tax PV10% is computed on the same basis as the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows but without deducting income taxes. The table below provides a reconciliation of our standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows to our pre-tax PV10% value.
Drilling Activities
We drilled, or participated in the drilling of, the following wells during the periods indicated.
__________
(a)
Excludes three (1.9 net) exploratory and two (0.8 net) development wells that are completing and one (0.4 net) development was that was drilling.
(b)
Includes two (1.0 net) development wells that commenced drilling in 2005 and was completed productive in 2006.
(c)
Includes one (1.0 net) exploratory well that commenced drilling in 2004 and were completed productive in 2005.
We do not own drilling rigs and all of our drilling activities have been conducted by independent contractors or by industry participant operators under standard drilling contracts.
Productive Wells and Acreage
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth our ownership interest at December 31, 2006 in productive oil and natural gas wells in the areas indicated. Wells are classified as oil or natural gas according to their predominant production stream. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we have an interest, and net wells are determined by multiplying gross wells by our average working interest.
Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including wells waiting on pipeline connection. Wells that are completed in more than one producing horizon are counted as one well. Of the gross wells reported above, two had multiple completions.
Acreage
Undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. The following table sets forth the approximate developed and undeveloped acreage that we held a leasehold interest in at December 31, 2006.
(a)
Does not include acreage for which assignments have not been received.
In addition, as of December 31, 2006, we had 2,442 gross and 1,824 net mineral acres.
All of our leases for undeveloped acreage summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless we renew the existing leases, we establish production from the acreage, or some other “savings clause” is exercised. The following table sets forth the minimum remaining lease terms for our gross and net undeveloped acreage.
In addition, as of December 31, 2006, we had lease options and rights of first refusal to acquire additional acres. The following table sets forth the expiration year of our options and right of first refusal agreements and our gross and net acres associated with those options and agreements.
Volumes, Prices and Production Costs
The following table sets forth our production volumes, the average prices we received before hedging, the average prices we received including hedging settlement gains (losses), the average price we received including hedging settlement and unrealized gains (losses) and average production costs associated with our sale of oil and natural gas for the periods indicated. On October 1, 2006, we de-designated all derivatives that were previously classified as cash flow hedges and as a result, we will mark-to-market these derivatives in future periods. In addition, all future derivatives will be undesignated and therefore subject to mark-to-market accounting. The mark-to-market accounting requires that we record both derivative settlement and unrealized gains (losses) to the consolidated statement of operations within a single income statement line item. We have elected to include both derivative settlements and unrealized gains (losses) within revenue. As such, unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives will no longer be included within either other comprehensive income or other income (expense) and will therefore be reflected in revenue. Prior periods for which unrealized gains (losses) have been included in other comprehensive income or other income (expense) are indicated with “NA” in the table on the next page.
Item 3.