ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our exploration and development activities are focused primarily in the onshore Texas Gulf Coast, the Anadarko Basin of northwest Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle and West Texas. We focus our activity in provinces where we believe 3-D seismic technology can be used effectively to maximize our return on capital invested by reducing drilling risk and enhancing our ability to cost effectively grow reserves and production volumes.
Texas Gulf Coast
The onshore Texas Gulf Coast region is a high potential, multi-pay province that lends itself to 3-D seismic exploration due to its substantial structural and stratigraphic complexity. We believe our established 3-D seismic exploration approach and our exploration staff's extensive experience in the Texas Gulf Coast provide us with significant competitive advantages. We have assembled a digital database including geographical, production, geophysical and geological information of the Texas Gulf Coast that our staff evaluates on CAEX workstations. The majority of our Texas Gulf Coast activity is currently concentrated in the Vicksburg and Frio trends, where we completed eight wells in eight attempts in 2002.
Vicksburg Trend
Our 3-D seismic inventory in the Vicksburg trend consists of approximately 179 square miles of 3-D seismic data (114,560 acres) located primarily in Brooks County in south Texas. The primary exploration targets within this area are structural features at depths ranging from 9,000 to 14,000 feet.
Since late 1999, we have completed 13 wells in 13 attempts in the Vicksburg play in South Texas at a proved developed drilling finding cost of $1.55 per Mcfe. However, early in our Vicksburg drilling program we experienced operational problems, primarily due to poor cement jobs. A few years ago we modified our drilling and completion techniques and have had excellent results ever since. Excluding three of the early wells with the poor cement jobs, our average drilling finding cost for proved developed reserves for the other ten wells we have drilled in this play has been approximately $1.34 Mcfe. For 2003, we have budgeted approximately $9.2 million to drill approximately four developmental wells and three exploratory wells in this area.
Since 1999, our exploration efforts in this trend have been focused in our Diablo Project. During 2002, we added to our exploration success in the Diablo project with our Floyd Fault Block discovery. Including this discovery, the Diablo project has provided three significant Vicksburg field discoveries. In 1999, we discovered the Home Run Field and in 2001 we discovered the Triple Crown Field. We own, along with a major integrated oil company participant, 10,000 gross and net acres of leasehold in the Diablo Project, and we acquired a 54 square mile proprietary 3-D program over the area in 1997 and
1998. We retain a 34% working interest in the project, but have increased our pre-payout working interest to 50% in select acreage that was subsequently drilled as our Triple Crown Field discovery.
Floyd Fault Block Vicksburg Discovery. We drilled our Floyd Fault Block discovery, the Sullivan #8, in December 2002. We retained a 34% working and 25% revenue interest in the Sullivan #8, which proves up reserves in one of several fault blocks adjacent to our Home Run and Triple Crown Fields. The Sullivan #8 encountered approximately 172 feet of apparent net pay in several Lower Vicksburg pay intervals at depths between 12,900 and 13,650 feet. The quantity of pay encountered is approximately triple that encountered in our typical Home Run Field Vicksburg wells.
The Sullivan #8, began producing to sales in March 2003 at a rate of approximately 9.2 MMcf of natural gas and 580 barrels of condensate per day (12.7 MMcfed), or approximately 3.2 MMcfed net to our 25% revenue interest, with a flowing tubing pressure of approximately 8,900 psi. This flowing tubing pressure is approximately 4,000 psi higher than our typical Home Run Field Vicksburg wells at comparable production rates, indicating the higher deliverability of the Floyd Fault Block reservoirs. The current production rate is limited by the production facilities, and we expect the operator of the well to expand the facilities in order to produce the well at higher rates. We estimate that the Floyd Fault Block will require up to nine additional wells for full development, four of which are proved undeveloped. We expect to spud our first development well in the second quarter of 2003 and could drill up to three additional wells in 2003.
Home Run Field & Triple Crown Vicksburg Field. We discovered the Home Run Field in late 1999 and the Triple Crown Field in 2001. To date, we have drilled and completed 12 consecutive wells in these fields. During 2002, we drilled and completed three wells in the Home Run Field. These wells include:
•The Palmer #5R, which began producing to sales in September 2002 at a rate of approximately 9.0 MMcf of natural gas and 520 barrels of condensate per day (12.1 MMcfed), or approximately 3.2 MMcfed net to Brigham's 26% revenue interest.
•The Palmer #3ST began producing to sales in October 2002, at a rate of 5.6 MMcf of natural gas and 240 barrels of condensate per day (7.0 MMcfed), or 2.0 MMcfed net to Brigham's 29% revenue interest.
•The Palmer State #6 began producing to sales in March 2003, at a rate of 12.2 MMcf of natural gas and 550 barrels of condensate per day (15.5 MMcfed), or 4.5 MMcfed net to Brigham's 29% revenue interest.
We believe the fields could require up to 35 additional wells for full development.
Adjacent Fault Blocks to Home Run and Triple Crown. We also anticipate testing at least one of the other adjacent fault blocks during 2003. One of these fault blocks is adjacent to our Floyd Fault Block discovery, and we believe that a portion of this fault block is juxtaposed to pay intervals found in the Sullivan #8. This fault block, and other adjacent fault blocks, provide up to 15 additional locations. We believe that all of the adjacent fault blocks are located structurally high to the adjacent Triple Crown Field, and structurally low to the adjacent Home Run Field, providing us with significant probable and possible reserve potential.
Frio Trend
In the Frio trend of the Upper Texas Gulf Coast, we have accumulated an inventory of over 1,172 square miles of predominantly non-proprietary 3-D seismic data (696,320 acres) located primarily in Matagorda and Brazoria Counties in south Texas. In early 2003, we added to our 3-D seismic inventory when we acquired 84 square miles of proprietary seismic data within our General Patton project in the Frio trend. We sold a 50% working interest in the General Patton project to a participant on a
promoted basis while retaining operations, and as a result we paid 33.3% of the seismic and pre-seismic land costs for a 50% working interest in the project. We are targeting both the shallow non-pressured and the deeper pressured Frio sands, analogous to our recent high rate discoveries in the trend. Our completions in this play are typically providing quick payouts of drilling and completion costs, and attractive rates of return on our drilling capital investments.
Since late 2000, we have completed 10 Frio tests in 11 attempts, at an estimated average drilling finding cost for proved developed reserves of $0.89 per Mcfe. For 2003, we expect to spend approximately $6.3 million to drill approximately two developmental wells and five exploratory wells in this area.
Providence Frio Field. We discovered the Providence Field during the fourth quarter of 2001, when we drilled and completed the Staubach #1 well. Including the Staubach #1 discovery well in 2001, we have now successfully completed four wells in the Providence Field. These wells include:
•The Staubach #1 (41% initial working interest) began producing to sales in February 2002 at a rate of 2,000 barrels of oil per day and 5.0 MMcf of natural gas per day (17.0 MMcfed), or approximately 5.4 Mmcfed to our initial 32% net revenue interest. The Staubach #1 paid out its drilling and completion costs in approximately three months. Upon payout, our net revenue interest in the Staubach #1 reverted to 27%.
•The Burkhart #1R (41% initial working interest), the relief well for the Burkart #1, was completed in July 2002 and began producing to sales at a rate of 1,700 barrels of oil per day and 10.0 MMcf of natural gas per day (20.2 Mcfed), or 6.3 MMcfed net to our initial 31% revenue interest. The Burkhart #1R paid out its drilling and completion costs in approximately three months, at which time our net revenue interest reverted to 22%.
•The Huebner #1 (34% working interest) was completed in November 2002 and began producing to sales at a rate of 2,230 barrels of oil per day and 6.1 MMcf of natural gas per day (19.5 MMcfed), or 4.9 MMcfed net to our 25% revenue interest. The Huebner #1 paid out its drilling and completion costs in approximately three months. The Huebner #1 is not subject to any reversionary interests.
•The Matthes-Huebner #1 (initial 43% working interest) was completed in December 2002 and began producing to sales in January 2003 at a rate of 2,518 barrels of oil per day and 7.7 MMcf of natural gas per day (22.8 MMcfed), or 7.3 MMcfed net to our 32% revenue interest. The Matthes-Huebner #1 well found two prolific pay intervals unlike the one pay interval found in each of the three previously drilled wells, and its initial rate is the highest of the Providence Field wells completed to date. We estimate the well paid out its drilling and completion costs in less than two months, and upon payout our net revenue interest reverted to 28%.
We are currently drilling the Huebner #3, our fifth Providence Field well, with a 40% working interest. The Huebner #3 is not subject to any reversionary interests. This well, like the recently completed Matthes-Huebner #1, has two potential pay intervals and we expect results in the second quarter 2003.
Most of our production from the Providence Field in 2002 came from the first two wells drilled, the Staubach #1 and the Burkhart #1R. Gross production from the Providence Field averaged approximately 22 MMcfed during 2002. With the addition of the Huebner #1, average daily production from the Providence Field during the fourth quarter 2002 was approximately 38 MMcfed. In March 2003, we had four Providence Field wells on line producing approximately 50 MMcfed, or 13 MMcfed net to our revenue interest.
Other Frio. As part of our ongoing Frio exploration program, in October 2002 we completed the Carr #1, a Frio bright spot exploration discovery in Brazoria County. We operated and retained a 37%
working interest in the well, which began producing to sales in early December 2002 at an initial rate of approximately 1.8 MMcf of natural gas per day and 50 barrels of oil per day (2.1 MMcfed), or approximately 0.6 MMcfed net to our 29% revenue interest.
In addition to our ongoing drilling program in the Frio, we continue to generate additional drilling inventory from our data base of more than 1,170 square miles of 3-D seismic date in the trend. Of this data, we are currently processing the 84 square miles of new proprietary 3-D seismic data that is our General Patton project. We acquired this data along the same trend that has provided most of our recent Frio discoveries, including the prolific Providence Field. We operate and retain a 50% working interest in this new project and have a strong land position of over 14,000 acres. Our staff began interpreting the data and defining drilling prospects during the first quarter of 2003, and we hope to commence our drilling program here during the second half of 2003. The company is assembling additional 3-D projects targeting the highly prolific Frio objective.
Dinn Ranch Wilcox Field
The Dinn Ranch Field was reportedly producing over 100 MMcf of natural gas per day in early 2003. We have participated in two wells in the field thus far. The first well, the Lopez #1, has experienced operational difficulties and its completion has been delayed. The second well, the Lopez #3, was producing to sales in February 2003 at a rate of approximately 16.5 MMcf of natural gas per day. We retain an overriding royalty interest in the Lopez #1 and the Lopez #3 that converts into a 12.5% working interest at 100% payout of drilling and completion costs, and a 25% working interest after 200% payout. At current production rates and commodity prices, we could convert to a 12.5% and possibly a 25% working interest in the Lopez #3 by year-end 2003. We expect a third well to spud in 2003, in which we expect to retain a 25% ground floor working interest.
Anadarko Basin
The Anadarko Basin is located in northwest Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle. We believe this prolific natural gas province offers a combination of lower risk exploration and development opportunities in shallower horizons and deeper higher potential objectives that have been relatively under explored. The stratigraphic and structural objectives in the Anadarko Basin can provide excellent targets for 3-D seismic imaging. In addition, drilling economics in the Anadarko Basin are enhanced by the multi-pay nature of many of these prospects, with secondary or tertiary targets serving as either incremental value or as alternatives in the event the primary target zone is not productive. Our activity is currently focused in the Springer Channel and Hunton trends, where we completed four wells in six attempts in 2002.
Springer Trend
Our 3-D inventory in the Springer trend consists of approximately 630 square miles (403,200 acres) of 3-D seismic data covering portions of Dewey, Blaine, Canadian and Caddo Counties, Oklahoma. Our activities in this area target buried sand channels at depths of 9,000 to 12,000 feet, as well as other secondary objectives. We began our operations in the Springer trend in 1991 and our interpretation and prospect generation efforts are still underway.
Since 2000, we have completed nine Springer wells in 13 attempts, at an estimated average drilling finding cost for proved developed reserves of $1.03 per Mcfe. Approximately 50% of these completions perform at a very high level, and as a result our overall program has provided extremely strong rates of return. Recently we entered into a joint venture that encompasses approximately 14,000 gross acres, greatly expanding our acreage position in this competitive trend. We have budgeted approximately $4.1 million to drill six developmental wells and six exploratory wells in this area in 2003.
Hunton Trend
Our 3-D seismic inventory in the Hunton trend consists of approximately 763 square miles (488,320 acres) of 3-D seismic data covering portions of Wheeler, Hemphill and Roberts Counties, Texas and Beckham County, Oklahoma. The primary exploration targets within this area are high potential, structural features at depths ranging from 7,500 to 25,000 feet. The trend has historically provided longer life reserves relative to our typical Texas Gulf Coast wells, but with the same type of prolific recoveries.
Since late 2000, we have completed two wells in the Hunton trend in two attempts. In late 2000, we drilled the discovery well for our Mills Ranch Field, the Mills Ranch #1, and in 2002 the first development well, the Mills Ranch #2, at an average estimated proved developed drilling finding cost of $0.58 per Mcfe. We have budgeted approximately $2.8 million to drill four developmental wells during 2003.
Mills Ranch Field. In July 2000, we spud the Mills Ranch #1, which was drilled directionally to a total depth of over 25,000 feet. We operated and retained a 64% working interest in the well, which encountered approximately 1,200 feet of gross pay and 340 feet of measured depth net pay (240 feet of calculated true vertical net pay) in three Hunton intervals. The Mills Ranch #1 began producing from one of the Hunton pay intervals in January 2001 at approximately 9.5 MMcf of natural gas and 90 barrels of condensate per day. The discovery well paid out its drilling and completion costs during its first year of production, and at year-end 2002 had produced 3.2 Bcfe and was producing approximately 3.2 MMcfed.
In the third quarter 2002, we began drilling the first offset to this discovery, the Mills Ranch #2. We retained a 64% working interest in the Mills Ranch #2, which encountered the basal Hunton porosity zone approximately 400 feet high to the comparable zone in the discovery well. After running production casing to a depth of approximately 23,900 feet, we perforated and stimulated the lower Hunton intervals. The well began producing at an initial rate of approximately 6.7 MMcf of natural gas per day with associated condensate. The upper intervals were then stimulated and commingled into the producing stream. The recent production rate was approximately 1.8 MMcfed, or approximately 0.9 MMcfed net to our 50% revenue interest. Given what we have learned about the remaining reserve potential of the field, we plan to drill at least one additional development well in the Mills Ranch Field in 2003. We expect to operate and retain a 64% working interest in this well.
West Texas
Our drilling activity in our West Texas province has been focused primarily in various carbonate and predominantly oil reservoirs, including the Canyon Reef and Fusselman formation of the Horseshoe Atoll trend, the Canyon Reef of the Eastern Shelf, and the Mississippian Reef of the Hardeman Basin, at depths ranging from 7,000 to 13,000 feet. We are currently focused on the Canyon Reef and Fusselman formations in the Horseshoe Atoll trend, where we completed seven wells in seven attempts in 2002.
Horseshoe Atoll Trend
We have an inventory of approximately 778 square miles (497,920 acres) of 3-D seismic data primarily covering portions of Scurry, Howard, Dawson and Borden Counties in the Horseshoe Atoll trend, where we have accumulated substantial experience exploring with 3-D seismic over the last twelve years. In 2002, and in prior years, we frequently sold working interests in our West Texas drilling prospects to industry participants on a promoted basis, which has reduced our drilling risk while also contributing to lower finding costs and higher rates of return.
Since 2000, we have completed eight wells in eight attempts in the trend at an estimated average drilling finding cost for proved developed reserves of $0.52 per Mcfe. For 2003, we have budgeted approximately $2.6 million to drill two developmental wells and five exploratory wells.
Our most significant completions in West Texas during 2002 were in the Fusselman formation in the Horseshoe Atoll trend. In May 2002 we completed the Casa Grande 2 #1 as the discovery well for the Conner Shea Fusselman Field in West Texas. We operated the Casa Grande 2 #1 with a 50% working interest, which began producing approximately 230 barrels of oil per day, or approximately 0.6 MMcfed net to our 43% revenue interest. In February 2003, we completed another well in the Conner Shea Fusselman Field, the Brigham operated Casa Grande 12 #1. The Casa Grande 12 #1 began producing at approximately 100 barrels of oil per day, or approximately 0.2 MMcfed net to our 41% revenue interest.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
Our estimated total net proved reserves of oil and natural gas as of December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 and the present values attributable to these reserves as of those dates were as follows:
(1)These base prices were adjusted to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials on a well-by-well basis to arrive at realized sales prices used to estimate our reserves at these dates. The reserve estimates reflected above were prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc., our independent petroleum consultants, and are part of reports on our oil and natural gas properties prepared by Cawley Gillespie.
In accordance with applicable requirements of the SEC, estimates of our net proved reserves and future net revenues are made using sales prices estimated to be in effect as of the date of such reserve estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties (except to the extent a contract specifically provides for escalation). Estimated quantities of net proved reserves and future net revenues therefrom are affected by oil and natural gas prices, which have fluctuated widely in recent years. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve data set forth in this Form 10-K represent only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geologic interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by us, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, operating
costs and other factors. The revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered and are highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. Our estimated net proved reserves have not been filed with or included in reports to any federal agency. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Risk Factors-We Are Subject To Uncertainties In Reserve Estimates And Future Net Cash Flows".
Estimates with respect to net proved reserves that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves rather than actual production history. Estimates based on these methods are generally less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history will result in variations in the estimated reserves that may be substantial.
Drilling Activities
We drilled, or participated in the drilling of, the following number of wells during the periods indicated:
(1)Excludes one gross (0.3 net) development well that was temporarily abandoned during drilling due to operational difficulties encountered prior to reaching total depth. We re-entered and completed this temporarily abandoned well during 2002.
(2)Excludes one gross (1.0 net) exploratory well that was temporarily abandoned during drilling due to operational difficulties encountered prior to reaching total depth. We re-entered and completed this temporarily abandoned well during 2001.
(3)From January 1, 2003 through March 21, 2003, we drilled or participated in the drilling of one gross (0.3 net) exploratory well, which was non-productive.
(4)From January 1, 2003 through March 21, 2003, we drilled or participated in the drilling of three gross (0.8 net) development wells which were in the process of drilling at March 21, 2003. We do not own drilling rigs and the majority of our drilling activities have been conducted by independent contractors or industry participant operators under standard drilling contracts. We operated 75% of the wells we participated in during 2002.
Productive Wells and Acreage
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth our ownership interest as of December 31, 2002 in productive oil and natural gas wells in the areas indicated.
Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including wells waiting on pipeline connection. Wells that are completed in more than one producing horizon are counted as one well. Of the gross wells reported above, two had multiple completions.
Acreage
Undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. The following table sets forth the approximate developed and undeveloped acreage that we held a leasehold, mineral or other interest at December 31, 2002:
All the leases for the undeveloped acreage summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless the existing leases are renewed, production has been obtained from the acreage subject to the lease prior to that date, or some other "savings clause" is implicated. The following table sets forth the minimum remaining terms of leases for the gross and net undeveloped acreage:
In addition, as of December 31, 2002 we had lease options to acquire an additional 18,316 gross and 12,656 net acres, all of which expire in 2003.
Volumes, Prices and Production Costs
The following table sets forth the production volumes, average prices received before hedging, average prices received after hedging and average production costs associated with our sale of oil and natural gas for the periods indicated.
Costs Incurred
The costs incurred in oil and natural gas acquisition, exploration and development activities are as follows (in thousands):
(1)Excludes $821,000 of proceeds from the sale of interests in properties, projects and prospects in 2002.
(2)Excludes $262,000 of proceeds from the sale of interests in properties, projects and prospects in 2001.
(3)Excludes $3.9 million of proceeds from the sale of interests in properties, projects and prospects in 2000.
Costs incurred represent amounts we incurred for exploration, property acquisition and development activities. Periodically, we receive reimbursement of certain costs from participants in our projects subsequent to project initiation in return for an interest in the project. These payments are described as "Proceeds from participants" in the table above.
ITEM 3.