ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our exploration and development activities are focused primarily in the onshore Texas Gulf Coast, the Anadarko Basin of northwest Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle, and West Texas. We focus our activity in provinces where we believe 3-D seismic technology can be effectively used to maximize our return on capital invested by reducing drilling risk and enhancing our ability to cost-effectively grow reserves and production volumes.
For the three-year period ended December 31, 2003, we completed 81 gross wells (30.4 net) in 93 attempts for a completion rate of 87% at an average all-sources finding cost of $1.50 per Mcfe. We have budgeted approximately $61.4 million to drill approximately 36 development wells and 23 exploratory wells during 2004. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations- 2004 Outlook.” The following is a summary of our properties by major province as of December 31, 2003, unless otherwise noted:
Texas Gulf Coast
The onshore Texas Gulf Coast region is a high potential, multi-pay province that lends itself to 3-D seismic exploration due to its substantial structural and stratigraphic complexity. In addition, certain sand reservoirs display seismic “bright spots,” which can be direct hydrocarbon indicators and can result in greatly reduced drilling risk. However, “bright spots” are not always reliable as direct hydrocarbon indicators and do not generally assess reservoir productivity. We believe our established 3-D seismic exploration approach, combined with our exploration staff’s extensive experience in the Texas Gulf Coast and accumulated knowledge base in this province, particularly given our recent drilling successes, provides us with significant competitive advantages. The majority of our Texas Gulf Coast activity is currently concentrated in the Vicksburg and Frio trends.
Over the past three years we have spent approximately 68% of our total capital expenditures for drilling, land and geological and geophysical in the onshore Texas Gulf Coast region and have completed 37 gross wells (15.6 net) in 41 attempts for a completion rate of 90%. Production from the onshore Texas Gulf Coast region represented 61% of our average daily production in 2003, up from 41% in 2001.
During 2003, we completed 15 gross wells (8.2 net) in 17 attempts for a completion rate of 88% in the onshore Texas Gulf Coast. We operated 12 of the 17 wells that we drilled. Eleven of the wells we drilled were exploratory and six were developmental. Our development drilling was focused in the Providence, Home Run and Floyd Fault Block Fields. In addition, we made a new Vicksburg field discovery with the successful completion of our Floyd South Fault Block Field discovery well.
For 2004, we intend to focus our drilling activity in this province on the development of our Home Run, Triple Crown, Floyd Fault Block and Floyd South Field discoveries in the Vicksburg, the further development of our Providence Field in the Frio and the continued drilling of our 3-D delineated exploration inventory in the Vicksburg and Frio trends. We expect to spend approximately $38.9 million to drill 25 wells in the onshore Texas Gulf Coast. Approximately 52% percent of these drilling capital expenditures are budgeted for development drilling activities, with the remainder allocated towards exploration drilling.
Vicksburg Trend
Since 1999, our exploration efforts in the Vicksburg trend have been focused in the general area of our Diablo Project located in the Brooks County area of South Texas. At inception we owned a 34% working interest in the Diablo Project, with another industry participant owning the remaining 66%. Prior to November 2003, we had approximately 8,000 acres of leasehold and 218 square miles of 3-D seismic data in the area.
In November 2003, we significantly expanded our ownership in this area when we signed two new joint ventures with our same industry participant covering an additional 5,150 acres, increasing our total acreage under control in the area to approximately 13,150 acres. In the new joint ventures we have the opportunity to retain larger working interests, ranging from 50% to 100%, while also retaining all the associated drilling and completion operations.
As of December 31, 2003, we had completed 18 wells in 18 attempts in the Vicksburg trend and generated four significant discoveries at the Home Run Field, the Triple Crown Field, the Floyd Fault Block Field and the Floyd South Fault Block Field. The primary objectives within this area are large structural features at depths ranging from 9,000 to 14,000 feet.
We believe that we have a substantial multi-year inventory of proved undeveloped and non-proved Vicksburg drilling locations in our Home Run, Triple Crown, Floyd Fault Block and Floyd South Fault Block Fields, and other adjacent fault blocks.
In 2003 we invested approximately $10.9 million to drill and complete five wells in the Vicksburg with an average working interest of 50%. For 2004 we plan to devote approximately $22.8 million in drilling capital expenditures to drill six development wells and two exploratory wells in the Vicksburg. We expect to direct a significant portion of our future capital expenditures towards both proved and non-proved drilling opportunities in this area.
Floyd Fault Block. We drilled our Floyd Fault Block discovery well, the Sullivan #8, in December 2002. We retained a 34% working and 25% revenue interest in the Sullivan #8, which proved up reserves in one of several fault blocks adjacent to our Home Run and Triple Crown Fields. The Sullivan #8 encountered approximately 172 feet of apparent net pay in several lower Vicksburg pay intervals at depths between 12,900 and 13,650 feet. The quantity of pay encountered is approximately three times that encountered in our typical Home Run Field well.
The Sullivan #8 began producing in March 2003 at a rate of approximately 9.2 MMcf of natural gas and 580 barrels of condensate per day (12.7 MMcfe/d) or approximately 3.2 MMcfe/d net to our 25% revenue interest. After producing approximately 2.9 Bcfe, in October 2003 the well stopped producing due to an apparent blockage above the producing formation. Prior to the blockage, the Sullivan #8 was producing 7.7 MMcf of natural gas and 400 barrels of condensate per day (10.1 MMcfe/d). In February 2004, the operator of the well reestablished production at approximately 2.5 MMcf of natural gas and 100 barrels of condensate per day (3.1 MMcfe/d). It is uncertain how long the Sullivan #8 will continue to produce in its current state. If the well stops producing in the future, it is highly likely that the well will be sidetracked or redrilled.
We retained a 34% working interest and 25% net revenue interest in the Sullivan #9 and the Sullivan #10, the first two development wells in our Floyd Fault Block Field. The most recent well, the Sullivan #10, encountered approximately 187 feet of apparent net pay, and was completed and fracture stimulated. The Sullivan #10 commenced production at an initial rate of approximately 11.9 MMcf of natural gas and 689 barrels of condensate per day (16.0 MMcfe/d) or approximately 3.9 MMcfe/d net to our revenue interest, with a flowing tubing pressure of approximately 8250 psi. We estimate that up to seven additional wells will be required for full development of the Floyd Fault Block Field, four of which were classified as proved undeveloped locations at December 31, 2003. We expect to drill two additional wells within the Floyd Fault Block Field in 2004.
Home Run Field & Triple Crown Field. We discovered the Home Run Field in late 1999 and the Triple Crown Field in 2001. As of December 31, 2003, we had drilled and completed 14 consecutive wells in these fields with an average working interest of 42%. During 2003, we drilled and completed two wells in the Home Run Field and expect to drill up to three wells within the Home Run Field and one well within the Triple Crown Field in 2004. We believe that the Home Run and Triple Crown Fields could require up to 45 additional wells for full development, eleven of which were classified as proved undeveloped at December 31, 2003.
Floyd South Fault Block Field. We drilled our Floyd South Fault Block Field discovery well, the D.J. Sullivan F#1, in December 2003. The Sullivan F #1, which was drilled to a total depth of 14,177 feet, was the first well to test the Floyd South fault block as part of the new Vicksburg joint venture entered into in 2003 with our industry participant. The Sullivan F#1 encountered approximately 55 feet of apparent net pay in the Lower Vicksburg and commenced production to sales in January 2003 at a rate of approximately 6.7 MMcf of natural gas and 293 barrels of condensate per day (8.5 MMcfe/d) with a flowing tubing pressure of 8100 psi, or approximately 3.3 MMcfe/d net to our 39% revenue interest. We operated the drilling of the Sullivan F #1, retaining a working interest of 100% before and 50% after casing point. We currently plan to commence drilling the first development well in the Floyd South Fault Block Field during the second quarter of 2004. We will retain a 50% working interest before and after casing point in the first development well and any other wells subsequently drilled in the Floyd South Fault Block Field. We believe that the Floyd South Fault Block Field could require three to six wells for full development, three of which were classified as proved undeveloped at December 31, 2003.
Adjacent Fault Blocks to Prior Field Discoveries. In early 2004, the Sullivan E #1 was drilled to a total depth of 14,650 feet to test the Diablo East fault block as part of our new Vicksburg joint ventures. Despite encountering over 400 gross feet of what was apparently gas bearing sands, it was determined that the prospective zones were tight and the well was plugged and abandoned. We are evaluating the results of this well to determine if another test of the Diablo East fault block is merited. Prior to drilling the Sullivan E #1, we had completed eighteen consecutive Vicksburg wells in four different fault blocks.
We have additional unproven fault blocks to test, most of which are adjacent to our prior discoveries.
Additional Vicksburg Potential. We continue to generate prospects in the Vicksburg trend, and seek to continue to expand our operations in this core trend, which is currently the single most important of the five focus trends.
Frio Trend
In the Frio trend of the Upper Texas Gulf Coast, we have accumulated an inventory of over 1,880 square miles (1.2 million acres) of predominantly non-proprietary 3-D seismic data located primarily in Brazoria, Calhoun, Matagorda, and Jackson Counties in the Upper Texas Gulf Coast. Within this trend we are targeting both the shallow non-pressured and the deeper pressured Frio sands. Reservoirs in this trend can display seismic “bright spots,” which can be direct hydrocarbon indicators and can result in greatly reduced drilling risk. However, “bright spots” are not always reliable as direct hydrocarbon indicators and do not generally assess reservoir productivity.
Since late 2000, we have completed 19 wells in 21 attempts in the Frio trend and discovered our prolific Providence Field. In 2003 we invested approximately $13 million in the Frio trend to drill 11 wells, 10 of which were completed. Our average working interest in these wells was 61%. For 2004 we estimate that our drilling expenditures will be approximately $15.6 million to drill five development wells with an average working interest of 52% and eleven exploratory wells with an average working interest of 57%.
Providence Frio Field. We discovered the Providence Field during the fourth quarter of 2001, when we drilled and completed the Staubach #1. Including the Staubach #1 discovery well in 2001, we have now completed five wells in five attempts in the Providence Field with an average working interest of 40%. During 2002 and 2003 we invested approximately $7.5 million in the drilling of our Providence Field, which generated approximately $24 million in net revenue during this time period. During 2004 we expect to drill one to two additional wells in the Providence Field.
General Patton Project. In early 2003, we acquired 84 square miles of new proprietary seismic data along the same trend that has provided most of our recent Frio discoveries, including the Providence Field. We sold a 50% working interest in the project to participants on a promoted basis. As a result, we paid 33.3% of the seismic and pre-seismic land costs for our 50% working interest in the project, while also retaining operational control. We began interpreting the data in May 2003 and commenced our drilling program in this project in August 2003 with the drilling of the Harriman #1 discovery. We operated and retained a 50% working and 39% revenue interest in the Harriman #1, which commenced production in early October 2003 at an initial rate of approximately 4.9 MMcf of natural gas and 50 barrels of oil per day (5.2 MMcfe/d).
In October 2003, we commenced drilling our second General Patton Project well, the Harrison #1, to test our Corner Pocket Prospect. In February 2004, the Harrison #1 commenced production at an initial rate of approximately 2.2 MMcf of natural gas and 113 barrels of oil per day (2.9 MMcfe/d). We retained a 50% working interest in the Harrison #1, which may set up one to two offsets that will be drilled during 2004. To date, we have completed two wells in two attempts in our General Patton Project, and currently expect to drill approximately eight General Patton Frio wells during 2004.
Bayou Bengal Project. In late 2003 and early 2004 we acquired approximately 77 square miles of existing non-proprietary and 54 square miles of new proprietary 3-D seismic data in our Bayou Bengal Project. This project is located along the same trend that has provided most of our recent Frio discoveries. We sold a 25% working interest in the project to a participant on a promoted basis. As a result, we paid 60% of the seismic and pre-seismic land costs for our 75% interest in the project, while also retaining operational control. We commenced drilling our first well in this project, the Trull B #2, during October 2003. The Trull B #2, which targeted a total depth of 9,500 feet, was completed to sales in January 2004 at an initial rate of approximately 2.3 MMcf of natural gas and 34 barrels of oil per day (2.5 MMcfe/d). This production rate was constrained due to limited pipeline capacity. We retained a 75% working and 56% revenue interest in this shallow Frio discovery.
In December 2003, we drilled the Sartwelle #1, our second discovery in our Bayou Bengal Project. The Sartwelle #1 commenced production to sales in February 2004 at an initial rate of approximately 4.0 MMcf of natural gas and 42 barrels of oil per day (4.2 MMcfe/d) with a flowing tubing pressure of 4750 psi. We retained a 63% working and 47% revenue interest in the Sartwelle #1, which was drilled to a total depth of approximately 10,450 feet. To date, we have completed two wells in two attempts in our Bayou Bengal Project, and currently expect to drill two additional wells during 2004.
Other Frio. In February 2004 we completed the Randall #1 in the Lower Frio at an initial rate of approximately 2.0 MMcf of natural gas and 12 barrels of oil per day (2.1 MMcfe/d) with a flowing tubing pressure of 6700 psi. We operated the Randall #1 with a 94% working and 70% revenue interest, which was drilled to a total depth of approximately 14,200 feet. We believe that the Randall #1 could set up one additional offset, which we expect to commence later in 2004.
In addition to our ongoing drilling program in the Frio trend, we continue to generate additional drilling inventory from our 3-D seismic database of more than 1,880 square miles in this trend. Historically, approximately 20% of our exploration wells targeted higher risk, higher reserve potential objectives. The Staubach #1 discovery well for our Providence Field is an example of a successful higher potential Frio test. However, as in recent years, the vast majority of our Frio exploration wells are expected to test relatively lower risk, primarily amplitude defined prospects. In recent years these prospects have provided us with a high success rate and a high rate of return on our drilling capital investments.
We also continue to add to our drilling inventory in the Frio by assembling several new proprietary 3-D seismic projects in the same trend where we have experienced significant drilling success in recent years. We expect to commence acquisition of at least one additional proprietary 3-D project in the third quarter of 2004.
Other Texas Gulf Coast
The Dinn Ranch Field. The Dinn Ranch Field is a Wilcox discovery located in Duval County, Texas. We own interests in two wells within the field. The first well, the Lopez #1, experienced operational difficulties, but was eventually completed as a marginal producer. The second well, the Lopez #3, was producing in February 2003 at a rate of approximately 16.5 MMcf of natural gas per day. The Lopez #3 had produced approximately 2.9 Bcfe through December 31, 2003, and was producing approximately 6.3 MMcf of natural gas per day at year-end. We retain 2% overriding royalty interests in these two wells that convert to working interests at different payouts. In each of these two wells, we will own a 12.5% working interest at 100% payout, which will increase to a 25% working interest at 200% payout. Payout occurs at the point in time when the net proceeds from the sale of production from the well equals all of the costs and expenses associated with the drilling and operation of the well. We expect a third well to spud late in 2004, in which we plan to retain a 25% ground floor working interest.
Anadarko Basin
The Anadarko Basin is located in northwest Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle. We believe this prolific natural gas producing province offers a combination of lower risk exploration and development opportunities in shallower horizons, as well as higher reserve potential in the deeper sections that have been relatively under explored.
We believe our drilling programs in the Anadarko Basin and West Texas generally provide us with longer life reserves and help to balance our drilling program in the prolific, but generally shorter reserve life, onshore Texas Gulf Coast province.
The stratigraphic and structural objectives in the Anadarko Basin can provide excellent targets for 3-D seismic imaging. In addition, drilling economics in the Anadarko Basin are enhanced by the multi-pay nature of many of these prospects; with secondary or tertiary targets serving as either incremental value or as alternatives in the event the primary target zone is not productive. Our recent activity has been focused primarily in the Springer Channel and Hunton trends. However, given the recent success of development wells in a Springer Bar Field, discovered by us in late 2000, developmental activity in this field accelerated during 2003.
Over the past three years we have spent approximately 25% of our total capital expenditures for drilling, land and geological and geophysical in the Anadarko Basin and have completed 30 gross wells (9.6 net) in 35 attempts for a completion rate of 86%. Production from the Anadarko Basin represented 23% of our average daily production in 2003, down from 38% in 2001.
During 2003, we completed 14 gross wells (4.8 net) in 15 attempts for a completion rate of 93%. We operated four of the wells that we drilled in the Anadarko Basin in 2003. Seven of the wells we drilled were exploratory and eight were developmental.
For 2004, we intend to continue to focus our drilling activity in this province on our 3-D delineated exploration and development inventory in the Springer and Hunton trends. We expect to spend approximately $20.8 million to drill 29 wells. Approximately 90% of these drilling capital expenditures are budgeted for development drilling activities, with the remainder allocated towards exploration drilling.
Grady County Springer Bar Field
In Grady County, Oklahoma we have approximately 105 square miles (67,200 acres) of 3-D seismic data and together with our participants control over 10,000 leasehold acres in one of the most prolific producing areas of the Anadarko Basin. In 2000, based on our seismic interpretation of this data, we discovered a large, stratigraphically defined Springer Bar field with the successful completion of the Nix #1 in the Britt interval of the Springer formation. In late 2000, we confirmed the field with the Pitchford #1 well, which produced from the same Britt interval at a depth of approximately 14,550 feet. We own a 17.35% working interest in the Nix #1 and a 32.27% working interest in the Pitchford #1.
During 2003, we invested approximately $2.6 million in this area and completed 6 gross wells (1.1 net) in 7 attempts. Successful wells drilled in the field have produced at initial rates generally ranging from 2 to 8 MMcfe per day, with low production decline rates relative to our onshore Texas Gulf Coast wells. Given our drilling success to date in the field, we are currently budgeting to spend $4.3 million to drill twelve development wells with an average working interest of 10% in this area in 2004.
In early 2003 we participated in the successful drilling of the McCasland Farms #2, which commenced production in May at an initial rate of approximately 4.5 MMcf of natural gas and 50 barrels of oil per day (4.8 MMcfe/d), or approximately 0.9 MMcfe/d net to our 18.6% revenue interest. We also participated with a 15% working interest in the Stonehocker #1, which began producing to sales in July 2003 at a rate of approximately 7.0 MMcf of natural gas per day, or approximately 0.8 MMcfe/d net to our 12% revenue interest.
The Jones #2 commenced drilling in June 2003, and was subsequently completed to sales in October 2003 at a rate of approximately 7.0 MMcf of natural gas and 100 barrels of oil per day (7.6 MMcfe/d), or 1.2 MMcfe/d net to our 15.9% revenue interest. During September 2003, we participated in the Teel #1 with a 16% working interest, which commenced producing to sales in December 2003 at a rate of approximately 6.9 MMcf of natural gas and 30 barrels of oil per day (7.1 MMcfe/d), or 0.9 MMcfe/d net to our 13% revenue interest. In November 2003, we participated in the drilling of the Mack Farms #1 with a 14.6% working interest. In February 2004, the Mack Farms #1 was being completed to sales after encountering approximately 55 feet of apparent net pay in various Springer intervals.
Other Grady County Activity
In April 2003, we participated in the Palmer #1 with a 29% working interest. The Palmer #1 was completed and fracture stimulated in the Bromide formation and initially produced at a rate of approximately 130 barrels of oil and 350 Mcf of natural gas per day (1.1 MMcfe/d) or 0.2 MMcfe/d net to our 22% revenue interest. In November 2003, we participated with a 33% working interest in the Cooper #1, which was drilled to a depth of approximately 16,374 feet and encountered approximately 65 feet of apparent net pay in the Bromide formation. The Cooper #1 was being completed in February 2004, with production to sales expected in March 2004. We are also participating with a 29% working interest in the Burton #1, another Bromide test that commenced drilling in March 2004. Results for the Burton #1 are expected in late May 2004.
Springer Channel Trend
Our 3-D seismic inventory in the Springer Channel trend consists of over 629 square miles (402,560 acres) of 3-D seismic data covering portions of Dewey, Blaine, Canadian, Grady and Caddo Counties, Oklahoma. Our activities in this area target buried fluvial sand channels at depths of 9,000 to 12,000 feet, as well as other secondary objectives. Since 2000, we have completed 11 wells in 15 attempts in the Springer Channel trend. In 2003 we invested approximately $1.1 million in this trend to drill and complete five wells in 2003 with an average working interest of 47%.
During 2003 we participated in an 8,800 feet Springer test, the Bryson #1, with a 36% working interest. The Bryson #1 was completed in the Springer interval in July 2003 at a rate of approximately 2.5 MMcf of natural gas and 110 barrels of oil per day (3.1 MMcfe/d), or approximately 0.9 MMcfe/d net to our 29% revenue interest. We have budgeted approximately $4.2 million to drill four development wells with an average working interest of 53% and six exploratory wells with an average working interest of 21% in this trend in 2004.
Hunton Trend
Our 3-D seismic inventory in the Hunton trend consists of approximately 762 square miles (487,680 acres) of 3-D seismic data covering portions of Wheeler, Hemphill and Roberts Counties, Texas and Beckham County, Oklahoma. The primary exploration targets within this area are high potential, multi-well structural features at depths ranging from 7,500 to 25,000 feet. The trend has historically provided longer life reserves relative to our typical onshore Texas Gulf Coast wells. For 2004, we have budgeted approximately $9.2 million to drill three development wells in the Hunton trend with an average working interest of 64%.
Mills Ranch Field. In July 2000, we spud the Mills Ranch #1, which was drilled directionally to a total depth of over 25,000 feet. We operated this well with a 64% working interest. The Mills Ranch #1 paid out its drilling and completion costs during its first year of production, and at year-end 2003 had produced 4.1 Bcfe and was producing approximately 1.3 MMcfe/d. In the third quarter 2002, we began drilling the first offset to this discovery, the Mills Ranch #2. We retained a 64% working interest in the Mills Ranch #2 well, which encountered the basal Hunton porosity zone approximately 400 feet high to the comparable zone in the discovery well. After running production casing to a depth of approximately 23,900 feet and perforating and stimulating the lower Hunton intervals, the well began producing at an initial rate of approximately 6.7 MMcf of natural gas per day with associated condensate. The upper intervals were then stimulated and commingled into the producing stream, and the well was put on production at an initial rate of approximately 2.0 MMcfe/d.
We believe that the Mills Ranch Field could require up to seven additional wells for full development, three of which were classified as proved undeveloped at December 31, 2003. Drilling operations commenced in February 2004 on one of the proved undeveloped locations, the Mills Ranch #1-99S. The Mills Ranch #1-99S is a reentry and sidetrack of a well previously drilled by another operator. We expect to retain at least a 68% working interest in the well, which is located several miles to the east of the Mills Ranch #1 and #2 wells. Currently there are three producing wells on the large structure, including our Mills Ranch #1 and #2 on the west side. The three producing wells on this structure have produced over 21 Bcfe to date. Subsequent to drilling the Mills Ranch #1-99S, we plan to utilize the same large drilling rig to drill two additional deep Hunton and Arbuckle wells during 2004. At least one of these wells will be a development well on the west side of the field.
Other Hunton Trend. We continue generating additional high potential opportunities within the Hunton trend, including prospects with substantial reserve potential in the stratigraphically deeper Arbuckle formation. The Arbuckle is a several thousand-foot carbonate interval that has been productive in a number of fields with significant cumulative production in the area. However, the presence of a large carbonate Arbuckle interval does not insure the presence of hydrocarbons, which in most cases will be dependent upon the presence of a fault, change in stratigraphy or other hydrocarbon trapping mechanism. The drilling depths for the Arbuckle vary widely within the trend, from as shallow as 10,000 feet to depths as great as 25,000 feet.
West Texas
West Texas is predominantly an oil producing province with generally longer lived reserves than that of the onshore Texas Gulf Coast. Our drilling activity in our West Texas province has been focused primarily in various carbonate reservoirs, including the Canyon Reef and Fusselman formations of the Horseshoe Atoll trend, the Canyon Reef of the Eastern Shelf, and the Mississippian Reef of the Hardeman Basin, at depths ranging from 7,000 to 13,000 feet.
Over the past three years, we have spent approximately 7% of our total capital expenditures for drilling, land and geological and geophysical in West Texas and have completed 14 gross wells (5.2 net) in 17 attempts for a completion rate of 82%. Production from West Texas represented 16% of our average daily production in 2003 down from 21% in 2001.
During 2003 we completed four gross wells (1.3 net) in five attempts for a completion rate of 80%. We operated one of the five wells that we drilled in West Texas in 2003. Four of the wells we drilled were exploratory and one was developmental.
For 2004, we intend to continue to focus our drilling activities on our 3-D delineated exploration inventory in the Canyon Reef and Fusselman formations of the Horseshoe Atoll trend. For 2004, we expect to spend approximately $1.7 million to drill one development well with a working interest of 40% and four exploratory wells with an average working interest of 51%.
Horseshoe Atoll Trend
We have an inventory of approximately 1,049 square miles (671,360 acres) of 3-D seismic data primarily covering significant portions of Scurry, Howard, Dawson and Borden Counties in the Horseshoe Atoll trend, where we have accumulated substantial experience exploring with 3-D seismic over the last twelve years. In 2002, and in prior years, we frequently sold working interests in our West Texas drilling prospects to industry participants on a promoted basis, which has reduced our drilling risk while also contributing to lower finding costs and higher rates of return. Since 2000, we have completed 12 gross wells in 12 attempts in the trend with an average working interest of 44%.
3-D Seismic Exploration
We have accumulated 3-D seismic data covering approximately 9,948 square miles (6.4 million acres) in over 28 geologic trends in seven basins and seven states. We typically acquire 3-D seismic data in and around existing producing fields where we can benefit from the imaging of producing analog wells. These 3-D defined analogs, combined with our experience in drilling 592 wells in our 3-D project areas, provide us with a knowledge base to evaluate other potential geologic trends, 3-D seismic projects within these trends and prospective 3-D delineated drilling locations. Through our experience in the early and mid 1990’s, we developed an expertise in the selection of geologic trends that we believe are best suited for 3-D seismic exploration. In 1997 and 1998 we invested approximately $64 million in 3-D seismic and land in plays that we believed were providing optimal 3-D delineated drilling economics. We have used the experience that we have gained within our core trends to enhance the quality of subsequent projects in the same trend and other analogous trends, to lower finding and development costs, to compress project cycle times and to enhance our return on capital.
Over the last twelve years we have accumulated substantial experience exploring with 3-D seismic in a wide range of reservoir types and geologic trapping mechanisms. In addition, we typically acquire digital data bases for integration on our computer-aided exploration workstations, including digital land grids, well information, log curves, production information, geologic studies, geologic top data bases and existing 2-D seismic data. We use our knowledge base, local geological expertise and digital data bases integrated with 3-D seismic data to create maps of producing and potentially productive reservoirs. As such, we believe our 3-D generated maps are more accurate than previous reservoir maps (which generally are based on subsurface geological information and 2-D seismic surveys), enabling us to more precisely evaluate recoverable reserves and the economic feasibility of projects and drilling locations.
We have acquired most of our raw 3-D seismic data using seismic acquisition vendors on either a proprietary basis or through alliances affording the alliance members the exclusive right to interpret and use data for extended periods of time. In addition, we have participated in non-proprietary group shoots of 3-D seismic data (commonly referred to as “spec data”) when we believe the expected full cycle project economics were justified, and we have exchanged certain interests in some of our non-core proprietary seismic data to gain access to additional 3-D seismic data. In most of our proprietary 3-D data acquisitions and alliances, we have selected the sites of projects, primarily guided by our knowledge and experience in the core provinces we explore, established and monitored the seismic parameters of each project for which data was shot, and typically selected the equipment that was used.
Combining our geologic and geophysical expertise with a sophisticated land effort, we manage the majority of our projects from conception through 3-D acquisition, processing and interpretation and leasing. In addition, we manage the negotiation and drafting of most of our geophysical exploration agreements, resulting in reduced contract risk and more consistent deal terms. Because we generate most of our projects, we can often control the size of the working interest that we retain as well as the selection of the operator and the non-operating participants. Consistent with our business strategy, we have increased the working interest we retain in our projects, based upon capital availability and perceived risk. Our average working interest in our 3-D seismic projects acquired during 1996, 1997 and 1998 was 37%, 67% and 80%, respectively. The 3-D seismic we acquired during 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002 was primarily through the exchange of certain rights in some of our non-core 3-D seismic projects. Most of these exchanges did not include an industry participant, therefore we retained potentially all interest in any prospects generated from the newly acquired 3-D seismic data. In early 2003, we acquired approximately 84 square miles of new proprietary 3-D seismic data in our General Patton Project located in the Frio trend of the Upper Texas Gulf Coast. We sold a working interest in this project to an industry participant on a promoted basis and thus retained a 50% working interest in the project. In 2003 and early 2004, we acquired approximately 77 square miles of non-proprietary and 54 square miles of new proprietary 3-D seismic data in our Bayou Bengal Project, also located in the Frio trend of the Upper Texas Gulf Coast. We sold a working interest in Bayou Bengal to an industry participant on a promoted basis and retained a 75% working interest in the project. In 2004, we expect to acquire approximately 267 square miles of new proprietary 3-D seismic data within our core areas.
Title to Properties
We believe we have satisfactory title, in all material respects, to substantially all of our producing properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. Our properties are subject to royalty interests, standard liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other burdens, which we believe do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties. Our senior credit facility and senior subordinated notes are secured by first and second liens, respectively, against substantially all of our proved oil and natural gas properties. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Senior Credit Facility” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Senior Subordinated Notes.”
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
Our estimated total net proved reserves of oil and natural gas as of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 and the present values attributable to these reserves as of those dates were as follows:
(a)
These base prices were adjusted to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials on a well-by-well basis to arrive at realized sales prices used to estimate our reserves at these dates.
The reserve estimates reflected above were prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc., our independent petroleum consultants, and are part of reports on our oil and natural gas properties prepared by Cawley, Gillespie.
In accordance with applicable requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, estimates of our net proved reserves and future net revenues are made using sales prices estimated to be in effect as of the date of such reserve estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties (except to the extent a contract specifically provides for escalation). Estimated quantities of net proved reserves and future net revenues there from are affected by oil and natural gas prices, which have fluctuated widely in recent years. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve data set forth in the Cawley, Gillespie report represents only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geologic interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by us, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and other factors. The revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered and are highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. Our estimated net proved reserves have not been filed with or included in reports to any federal agency. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Risk Factors-We Are Subject To Uncertainties In Reserve Estimates And Future Net Cash Flows.”
Estimates with respect to net proved reserves that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves rather than actual production history. Estimates based on these methods are generally less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history will result in variations in the estimated reserves that may be substantial.
Drilling Activities
We drilled, or participated in the drilling of, the following number of wells during the periods indicated:
(a)
Excludes one (0.5 net) exploration well that is under evaluation and temporarily abandoned.
(b)
Excludes one (0.2 net) development well that is productive but was temporarily abandoned. There are no current plans to put this well on production.
(c)
Excludes one (0.3 net) development well that was temporarily abandoned during drilling due to operational difficulties encountered prior to reaching total depth. We re-entered and completed this temporarily abandoned well during 2002.
We do not own drilling rigs and the majority of our drilling activities have been conducted by independent contractors or by industry participant operators under standard drilling contracts.
Productive Wells and Acreage
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth our ownership interest at December 31, 2003 in productive oil and natural gas wells in the areas indicated.
Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including wells waiting on pipeline connection. Wells that are completed in more than one producing horizon are counted as one well. Of the gross wells reported above, two had multiple completions.
Acreage
Undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. The following table sets forth the approximate developed and undeveloped acreage that we held a leasehold, mineral or other interest at December 31, 2003:
All the leases for the undeveloped acreage summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless the existing leases are renewed, production has been obtained from the acreage subject to the lease prior to that date, or some other “savings clause” is implicated. The following table sets forth the minimum remaining terms of leases for the gross and net undeveloped acreage:
In addition, as of December 31, 2003, we had lease options to acquire additional acres. The following table sets forth the year in which our options expire and the gross and net acres we have under option:
Volumes, Prices and Production Costs
The following table sets forth the production volumes, average prices received before hedging, average prices received after hedging and average production costs associated with our sale of oil and natural gas for the periods indicated.
Costs Incurred
The costs incurred in oil and natural gas acquisition, exploration and development activities are as follows:
Costs incurred represent amounts we incurred for exploration, property acquisition and development activities. Periodically, we receive reimbursement of certain costs from participants in our projects subsequent to project initiation in return for an interest in the project. These payments are described as “Proceeds from participants” in the table above.
ITEM 3.