Item 2. Properties
Historically, our exploration and development activities have been focused in the Onshore Gulf Coast, the Anadarko Basin, which encompasses the Texas Panhandle and western Oklahoma, and West Texas. We focus our activity in provinces where we believe technology and the knowledge of our technical staff can be effectively used to maximize our return on invested capital by reducing drilling risk and enhancing our ability to grow reserves and production volumes. We also regularly evaluate opportunities to expand our activities to areas that may offer attractive exploration and development potential, with a particular interest in those plays that complement our current exploration, development and production activities. Recent expansion initiatives included our acquisition of acreage in both the Williston Basin located in North Dakota and Montana and the Powder River Basin located in Wyoming. In 2007, we drilled eight horizontal Bakken wells and one conventional Red River vertical well on our Williston Basin acreage and three horizontal Mowry wells on our Powder River Basin acreage, investing in a total of $37.1 million in land, seismic and drilling in these two new plays. In addition, over the last two years, we have entered into four joint ventures in Southern Louisiana, which we view as a logical extension of our onshore Texas Gulf Coast exploration activities. During 2007, we spent $21.0 million to drill three wells and acquire land and seismic in Southern Louisiana.
For the three-year period ended December 31, 2007, we completed 81 gross wells (47.7 net) in 100 attempts for a completion rate of 81%. We also had four development wells that were completing and two development wells and two exploratory wells that were drilling as of December 31, 2007. During 2008, we plan to spend approximately $102.6 million to drill 24 development wells and nine exploratory wells and to drill and complete wells that were in progress at December 31, 2007. We also plan to spend $18.3 million on land and seismic and $12.8 million for capitalized costs. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Commitments - Capital Expenditures.” The following is a summary of our properties by major province as of December 31, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
(a)
Includes the Williston Basin located in North Dakota and Montana and the Powder River Basin located in Wyoming.
(b)
Capital expenditures for drilling, land and seismic in 2007 for West Texas & Other includes capital associated with the Barnett Shale.
(c)
The standardized measure for our proved reserves at December 31, 2007, was $394.5 million. See “- Reconciliation of Standardized Measure to Pre-tax PV10%” for a definition of pre-tax PV10% and a reconciliation of our standardized measure to our pre-tax PV10% value.
Onshore Gulf Coast Province
Our Onshore Gulf Coast province is a high potential, multi-pay province that lends itself to 3-D seismic exploration due to its substantial structural and stratigraphic complexity. In addition, certain sand reservoirs display seismic “bright spots,” which can be direct hydrocarbon indicators and can result in greatly reduced drilling risk. However, “bright spots” are not always reliable as direct hydrocarbon indicators and do not generally assess reservoir productivity. We believe our established 3-D seismic exploration approach, combined with our exploration staff’s extensive experience and accumulated knowledge base in the Onshore Gulf Coast province, provides us with significant competitive advantages.
Key operating trends within this province include the Vicksburg trend in Brooks County, Texas, the Frio trend in and around Matagorda County, Texas and the Miocene and Upper Oligocene trends in Southern Louisiana. In 2007, we entered into two joint ventures in an effort to continue to expand our position in Southern Louisiana.
Over the three year period ended December 31, 2007, approximately 56% of our total capital expenditures for drilling, land and seismic were allocated to our Onshore Gulf Coast province, where we completed 36 gross wells (27.0 net) in 46 attempts for a completion rate of 78%.
During 2007, we completed five gross wells (5.0 net) in eight attempts for a completion rate of 63% in this province. All of the completed wells were development wells. We also had one exploratory well that was drilling as of December 31, 2007. Subsequent to year-end, we were in the process of completing this well. We operated 100% of the wells that we drilled in this province during 2007. For 2007, we spent $64.3 million on drilling, land and seismic in our Onshore Gulf Coast province. Approximately 51% of the drilling, land and seismic was allocated to the Vicksburg, 33% to Southern Louisiana, 14% to the Frio and 2% to other areas in the province.
For 2008, we currently plan to spend $51.7 million in our Onshore Gulf Coast province. Approximately $48.1 million of this spending has been allocated to drilling, with the remaining $3.6 million allocated to capital spending for land and seismic activities. We anticipate that approximately 58% of the drilling, land and seismic will be allocated to the Vicksburg, 34% to Southern Louisiana, 3% to the Frio, and 5% to other areas in the province. We plan to drill six development wells and spend approximately $32.9 million on development drilling capital. We also plan to drill five exploratory wells and spend $15.2 million on exploration drilling capital.
Vicksburg Trend
Our Vicksburg activity is focused principally in Brooks County, Texas, in our Home Run, Triple Crown, and Floyd Fields. We discovered these fields in 1999, 2001 and 2002, respectively. Since 1999, we have drilled 40 Vicksburg wells and we have completed 38 of those wells. We believe we have a multi-year inventory of drilling locations in our Home Run, Triple Crown and Floyd Fault Block Fields.
In 2007, we successfully completed all five of our development wells spud in 2007 of which three were in the Triple Crown Field and two were in the Home Run Field. Total drilling, land and seismic capital expended in the Vicksburg during 2007 was $32.6 million.
During 2007, we operated all of our Vicksburg drilling and the working interests we retained in our wells was higher than our historic average as our joint venture participant elected to take a more passive role in the development of the field. Rather than participating in the drilling of the wells with a paying working interest, our joint venture participant elected to receive a reversionary, or back-in, working interest based on certain payout thresholds.
In March 2007, we successfully completed the Triple Crown Field Dawson #1S from the Dawson Sand at an initial production rate of approximately 2.7 MMcfe per day. The Dawson #1S was followed by the Triple Crown Field Sullivan C-35, which found pay in the Brigham, 9,800’, Loma Blanca and Dawson Sands. The well was brought on-line at an initial production rate of approximately 2.3 MMcfe per day from the 9,800’, Loma Blanca and Dawson Sands.
In July 2007, we completed the Triple Crown Field Sullivan #14, which encountered pay in the 9,800’ and Brigham Sands. The well was brought on-line at an initial production rate of approximately 1 MMcfe per day from the 9,800’ Sand. The Sullivan #14 was followed by the Home Run Sullivan #15, which was a test of the eastern extent of the Home Run Field. Using new drilling technologies, the well was completed in a record 24 days resulting in an estimated $1.2 million reduction in drilling costs. The well was completed from the Vick “8” Sand at an initial production rate of approximately 3.2 MMcfe per day.
Given the successful completion of the Sullivan #15, we immediately commenced drilling the Home Run Sullivan C-36 and found approximately 100 feet of apparent pay in various lower Vicksburg objectives. The well was completed at an initial production rate of approximately 5.5 MMcfe per day, with additional pay behind pipe for future completion.
Subsequent to the C-36, we temporarily halted drilling in the Vicksburg in order update our structural interpretation of the three fields, which are essentially one highly faulted structural feature, based on our recent drilling results and our recently reprocessed proprietary 3-D data. Our recent Sullivan #15 and Sullivan C-36 completions in the Home Run Field were drilled to confirm new interpretational ideas. At the same time, we had commenced reprocessing the 3-D seismic data over the fields and believed it was important to integrate the new processing and recent drilling results into a new interpretation of the fields and surrounding arrears.
During 2008, we currently plan to spend approximately $28.3 million in the Vicksburg to drill four development wells and one exploration well. We also currently expect to spend approximately $1.8 million on land and seismic in 2008. In February 2008, we resumed our continuous Vicksburg drilling program and spud the Floyd Field Sullivan C-38, a development well, which is an attempt to extend the prolific Floyd fault block to the North. As of March 3, 2008, we had reached an approximate depth of 10,610 feet. We expect the C-38 to reach a total depth of 14,000 feet and anticipate providing drilling results in April. We will have a 100% working interest in the well subject to a back-in.
Frio Trend
Our Frio trend drilling, land and seismic capital expenditures for 2007 totaled $9.4 million. During 2007, we drilled one exploratory well in the Frio, the Randall #2. The well was plugged and abandoned after encountering non-commercial Frio pay.
In 2008, we currently plan to spend approximately $1.2 million to drill one Frio development well and for other activities. Capital costs on our Frio well will be mitigated by a partial carry to casing point by industry partners.
Southern Louisiana Trend
In Southern Louisiana, we utilize our geophysical, geological and operational expertise to explore for hydrocarbon bearing Oligocene and Miocene reservoirs. These reservoirs are generally on trend with the Texas Gulf Coast Frio and are therefore logical extensions of our drilling activities. During 2007, we drilled two wells and are in process of drilling another with drilling, land and seismic expenditures totaling $21.0 million.
In January 2007, we announced that that Cotten Land #3 encountered 30 feet of pay in the primary objective and 50 feet of apparent pay in an unexpected shallower zone. In March 2007, the well commenced production at an initial production rate of approximately 19 MMcfe per day from the primary objective. The shallower pay continues to remain behind pipe for future completion.
Also in March, we announced that the Marie Snyder #1 commenced production at an initial production rate of approximately 9.6 MMcfe per day. This well proved to be an important control point as it extended the gas water contact in the Cotten Land #3 fault block.
In May 2007, we commenced the Cotten Land #2, which was in an adjacent fault block to the Cotten Land #1. A primary upper sand objective was not present and the well was sidetracked. The sidetrack was also unsuccessful and a decision was made to undertake a second sidetrack to target our Cotten Land #4 objective in adjacent fault block, thereby realizing approximately $2 million in cost savings versus drilling a new well. The second sidetrack was plugged and abandoned as the target sands were wet.
In August 2007, we entered into a drilling project to participate in at least two wells in Jefferson Davis and Acadia Parishes. The two wells targeted 3-D seismic delineated Oligocene objectives at depths of 14,600 and 13,900 feet. The first well, the Blue Heron #1, was plugged and abandoned late in 2007. The second well, the Cary Sr. Estate #1 is currently being completed after encountering approximately 26 feet of apparent pay at a true vertical depth of 12,300 feet. Results from this well are expected in late March 2008.
In December 2007, we entered into a joint venture to operate the drilling of at least six prospects over the next 18 months with a 50% working interest. The five prospects planned for 2008 will target 3-D delineated, primarily amplitude related prospects at depths of 9,000 to 10,500 feet in Plaquemines and Saint Bernard Parishes.
In 2008, we currently plan to spend approximately $17.3 million to drill four exploratory wells, one development well, to complete wells in progress at December 31, 2007 and for other activities. We also currently expect to spend approximately $0.5 million on land and seismic.
Anadarko Basin Province
The Anadarko Basin is located in the Texas Panhandle and Western Oklahoma. We believe this prolific natural gas producing province offers a combination of relatively lower risk exploration and development opportunities in shallower horizons, as well as higher risk, but higher reserve potential opportunities in the deeper sections that have been relatively under explored. We believe our drilling program in the Anadarko Basin generally provides us with longer life reserves and helps to balance our drilling program in our prolific, but generally shorter reserve life Onshore Gulf Coast province.
The stratigraphic and structural objectives in the Anadarko Basin can provide excellent targets for 3-D seismic imaging. In addition, drilling economics in the Anadarko Basin are enhanced by the multi-pay nature of many of the prospects, with secondary or tertiary targets serving as either incremental value or as alternatives if the primary target zone is not productive. Our recent activity has been focused primarily in the Hunton, Springer Channel, Springer Bar and Granite Wash trends.
During 2007, we drilled three development and two exploratory wells. We successfully completed all three development wells and plugged and abandoned the two exploratory wells for an overall success rate of 60%. Of the $12.2 million that we spent on this province in 2007, approximately 58% was allocated to the Hunton trend, 14% was allocated to the Granite Wash trend, 11% was allocated to the Springer trends and 17% to other Anadarko Basin projects.
During 2008, we currently expect to spend approximately $11.7 million to drill four development wells, one exploratory well, to complete wells that were in progress and on other activities. We also expect to spend $1.9 million on net land and seismic.
Hunton Trend
Our Mills Ranch 96 #1 commenced production in January 2007 from the Viola and was producing approximately 3 MMcfe per day prior to being shut in to complete the upper, middle and lower Hunton objectives. Production from the Hunton objectives began in mid-March at an initial production rate of approximately 4.5 MMcfe per day. While production testing the well, it was determined that a substantial number of perforations were not contributing to the production stream and we undertook operations to open these perforations. During this time, a tubing failure was identified that required remediation. After completing the remediation, the well was brought on-line in July 2007 at a production rate of approximately 3.7 MMcfe per day.
Granite Wash Trend
In September 2007, we announced closing on the sale of our Granite Wash divestiture package for net proceeds of $35.4 million based on an effective date of September 1, 2007. The properties sold had current net production of approximately 1.8 MMcfe per day and proved reserves at the time of sale of approximately 23.8 Bcfe. Year-end 2006 proved reserves associated with the properties were approximately 13.6 Bcfe. The Granite Wash properties were sold because the rates of return on the 33 wells drilled in the Granite Wash over the last four years were not competitive with the rates of return on our other projects. Proceeds from the sale were initially used to pay off the outstanding balance under the credit facility and will eventually be used to fund other projects.
Rocky Mountains Province
We regularly evaluate opportunities to expand our activities to areas that may offer attractive exploration and development potential, with a particular interest in those plays that complement our current exploration, development and production activities. In late 2005, we began accumulating acreage in the Williston Basin located in North Dakota and Montana and in early 2006 entered into a joint venture agreement in the Powder River Basin located in Wyoming. During 2007, we invested approximately $37.1 million in drilling, land and seismic in the Williston and Powder River Basins. During 2007, we spud 12 wells in the province with four wells completing and two wells still drilling at year-end. We successfully completed the remaining six wells we spud during 2007 for an overall completion success rate of 100%.
Williston Basin
The Williston Basin is spread across North Dakota, Montana and Canada with the United States portion of the basin encompassing approximately 143,000 square miles. The basin produces oil and gas from numerous producing horizons including, but not limited to, the Bakken and Red River, which are currently our primary objectives.
The Bakken is an unconventional oil play at depths of approximately 8,500 to 10,500 feet. In Richland County, Montana, approximately 227 Bakken wells in the Elm Coulee Field have generated average initial production rates of approximately 345 barrels of oil per day and estimated ultimate recoveries of approximately 376,000 barrels of oil per well, based on data compiled from external sources. In North Dakota, oil and gas companies are rapidly accelerating their activity east of the Nesson Anticline with much of the activity focused in and around Mountrail County.
In 2007, we spud nine wells in the Williston Basin, eight of which targeted the Bakken and one of which targeted the Red River. At year-end, we were completing four wells, drilling one well and had successfully completed the four remaining wells for a 100% success rate. Of the eight Bakken wells spud during 2007, four were operated by us, and four were non-operated wells. Total drilling, land and seismic capital expended in the Williston Basin during 2007 was approximately $24.6 million.
The Bergstrom Family Trust 26 #1H, which was our first operated well drilled in Mountrail County, North Dakota, produced at an early peak rate of approximately 202 barrel of oil equivalent per day up 4.5” casing and was drilled and completed for approximately $6.1 million. After installing 2 7/8” production tubing and placing the well on rod pump, we indicated on March 3, 2008 that the well was currently producing approximately 119 barrels of oil equivalent per day. The Bergstrom Family Trust 26 #1H is located approximately 6.5 miles northeast of the Parshall Field, and approximately 6 miles southeast of EOG’s Austin #1-02H and the Austin #2-03H discoveries.
Approximately 25 miles to the northwest of the Bergstrom Family Trust 26 #1H, we successfully drilled and completed our second operated Mountrail County, North Dakota well, the Hynek 2 #1H. The Hynek 2 #1H produced at an early peak 24 hour rate of approximately 585 Boe per day up 7” casing. After installing 2 7/8” production tubing and placing the well on rod pump, we indicated on March 3, 2008 that the well was currently producing approximately 142 barrels of oil equivalent per day. The Hynek 2 #1H was drilled and completed for approximately $4.9 million.
We successfully drilled and completed our third Mountrail County, North Dakota operated well, the Bakke 23 #1H, which produced at an early peak 24 hour rate of approximately 380 Boe per day up 7” casing. After installing 2 7/8” production tubing and placing the well on rod pump, we indicated on March 3, 2008 that the well was currently producing approximately 310 barrels of oil equivalent per day. The Bakke 23 #1H is located approximately 6 miles east of the Hynek 2 #1H, 12 miles west of EOG’s recently announced Austin #1-02H completion, and approximately 20 miles northwest of our Bergstrom Family Trust 26 #1H. The Bakke 23#1H was drilled and completed for approximately $4.7 million.
At year-end, we were drilling our fourth operated Mountrail County, North Dakota horizontal Bakken well, the Hallingstad 27 #1H. The Hallingstad 27 #1H is located approximately one mile west of the Bergstrom Family Trust 26 #1H well. On March 3, 2008, we indicated that after fracture stimulation the well was producing at an early rate of approximately 450 barrels of oil equivalent per day up 4.5” casing.
After completing the Hallingstad 27 #1H, we moved the rig to a location proximal to the Hynek 2 #1H to drill the 100% working interest Manitou State 36 #1H. As of March 3, 2008, the well was drilling at a depth of approximately 9,000 feet. We currently plan to keep this operated rig running continuously in 2008 drilling horizontal Bakken wells in North Dakota.
In December 2007, we successfully drilled and completed the Richardson 25 #1, a Red River discovery, which commenced production at an initial production rate of approximately 220 barrels of oil equivalent per day. As of March 3, 2008, we indicated that the well was currently producing approximately 279 barrels of equivalent per day. The Richardson 25 #1 is a conventional vertical well and was drilled and completed for approximately $2.4 million. We plan to commence our next Red River test in April 2008.
During 2008, we currently expect to spend approximately $37.4 million to drill 17 wells, complete wells that were in progress and on other activities. We also currently expect to spend approximately $10.5 million on net land and seismic.
Powder River Basin
In February 2006, we signed a letter of intent to acquire a 50% working interest in an unconventional shale play in the Powder River Basin located in Wyoming. Eighteen vertical wells in the area, which date as far back as 1951, targeted the approximate 175 foot Mowry shale at depths of about 7,500 feet and produced between 8 to 189 barrels of oil per day. Given the historical results, we believe the application of horizontal drilling technology and advanced fracture stimulation could significantly increase the productivity of the shale. Our obligations to carry our partners for the drilling and completion of two horizontal wells and $1.0 million of land acquisition costs were fulfilled in 2007 resulting in us earning a 50% working interest in approximately 54,000 net acres. As of December 31, 2007, we hold approximately 66,000 net acres in the play, located primarily in Niobrara County, Wyoming.
In 2007, we spent $12.5 million in the Powder River Basin to complete one horizontal well that spud in 2006, to drill and complete two new wells that spud in 2007, to commence drilling a third well and to acquire land and seismic data.
The Krejci #3-29H, drilled in 2006, was our first well drilled in the Powder River Basin. The well produced initially from the outermost 219 feet of the wellbore and pumped between 120 and 160 barrels of oil per day. In December 2007, operations began to complete the innermost 1,381 feet of the wellbore and after fracture stimulation the well produced between 50 and 90 barrels of oil per day. It appears that the outermost section of the uncased wellbore collapsed and therefore we are no longer in full communication with the section of the wellbore that was producing 120 to 160 barrels of oil per day rate. The well is currently pumping approximately 35 barrels of oil per day. The Krejci #3-29H was followed later in 2006 by the Mill Trust 1-12H. In July 2007, we fracture stimulated the 885 foot cased portion of the wellbore and installed production tubing and pumping equipment. The well is currently pumping approximately 12 barrels of oil per day. Results after cleanout show a good possibility that he cased hole interval was not properly stimulated.
The Werner #1-14H was the first well drilled in our 2007 Powder River Basin program. In July 2007, we fracture stimulated the wellbore and installed production tubing and pumping equipment. The well is currently producing intermittently at 12 barrels of oil per day. The State 1-16H, the second Powder River Basin well in our 2007 drilling program, was spud in May 2007. The State 1-16H was completed in July 2007 and is currently pumping intermittently at approximately 1 to 2 barrels of oil per day. A proper stimulation was never achieved in this wellbore and we are currently accessing the next plan of action. In November 2007, we spud the Krejci Federal #1-32H well, which is proximate to our first well in the basin, the Krejci Federal 29#3H. The Krejci Federal #1-32H will be completed using swell packer technology, a method enabling the isolation of fracture stimulations along the lateral utilizing an uncemented liner. Completions utilizing swell packers have generated positive operational results in the horizontal Bakken wells in the Williston Basin. As of March 3, 2008, we indicated that the well had been drilled and swell packers had been installed. We anticipate that the well will be fracture stimulated in mid-March 2008 and anticipate results will be provided in early April 2008.
In 2008, we currently anticipate spending approximately $4.5 million to complete the well that was drilling at year-end, acquire additional acreage and conduct additional seismic delineation testing.
West Texas and Other Province
The Permian Basin of West Texas and Eastern New Mexico is a predominantly oil producing province with generally longer life reserves than that of our onshore Gulf Coast. Our drilling activity in our West Texas province has been focused primarily in various carbonate reservoirs, including the Canyon Reef and Fusselman formations of the Horseshoe Atoll trend, the Canyon Reef of the Eastern Shelf, the Wolfcamp and Devonian section of New Mexico, and the Mississippian Reef of the Hardeman Basin, at depths ranging from 7,000 to 13,000 feet.
During 2007, we completed one gross well in two attempts for a 50% completion rate and spent a total of $0.7 million on drilling, land and seismic.
For 2008, we currently plan to spend approximately $3.2 million on drilling, land and seismic.
3-D Seismic Exploration
We have accumulated 3-D seismic data covering approximately 11,831 square miles (7.6 million acres) in 11 states. We typically acquire 3-D seismic data in and around existing producing fields where we can benefit from the imaging of producing analog wells. These 3-D defined analogs, combined with our experience in drilling 760 wells, the majority of which were imaged utilizing our 3-D seismic data and interpretation, provide us with a knowledge base to evaluate other potential geologic trends, 3-D seismic projects within these trends and prospective 3-D delineated drilling locations. Through our experience in the early and mid 1990’s, we developed an expertise in the selection of geologic trends that we believe are best suited for 3-D seismic exploration. We have used the experience that we have gained within our core trends to enhance the quality of subsequent projects in the same trend and other analogous trends to help lower finding and development costs, compress project cycle times and enhance our return on capital.
Over the last 17 years, we have accumulated substantial experience exploring with 3-D seismic in a wide range of reservoir types and geologic trapping mechanisms. In addition, we typically acquire digital databases for integration on our computer-aided exploration workstations, including digital land grids, well information, log curves, production data, geologic trend studies, formation/reservoir top databases and existing 2-D seismic data. We use our knowledge base, local geological expertise and digital databases integrated with 3-D seismic data to create maps of producing and potentially productive reservoirs. As such, we believe our 3-D generated maps are more accurate than previous reservoir maps (which generally are based on subsurface geological information and 2-D seismic surveys), enabling us to more precisely evaluate recoverable reserves and the economic feasibility of projects and drilling locations.
Historically, we have acquired most of our raw 3-D seismic data using seismic acquisition vendors on either a proprietary basis or through alliances affording the alliance members the exclusive right to interpret and use data for extended periods of time. In addition, we have participated in non-proprietary group shoots of 3-D seismic data (commonly referred to as “spec data”) when we believe the expected full cycle project economics could not justify the acquisition of proprietary data. Further, we have exchanged certain interests in some of our non-core proprietary seismic data to gain access to additional 3-D seismic data. In most of our proprietary 3-D data acquisitions and alliances, we have selected the sites of projects, primarily guided by our knowledge and experience in the core provinces we explore, established and monitored the seismic parameters of each project for which seismic data was acquired, and typically selected the equipment that was used.
Combining our geologic and geophysical expertise with a sophisticated land effort, we manage the majority of our projects from conception through 3-D acquisition, processing and interpretation and leasing. In addition, we manage the negotiation and drafting of virtually all of our geophysical exploration agreements, resulting in reduced contract risk and more consistent deal terms. Because we generate most of our projects, we can often control the size of the working interest that we retain as well as the selection of the operator and the non-operating participants.
During 2005, we added approximately 247 square miles of 3-D seismic data to our corporate database. All 247 square miles of 3-D seismic data acquired were non-proprietary to us. Included in the 3-D seismic data that we added to our corporate database in 2005 was approximately 80 square miles of data in our Mudflats project located in the Frio trend along the Lower Texas Gulf Coast. We retained a 100% working interest in our Mudflats project.
During 2006, we added approximately 637 square miles of 3-D seismic data to our corporate database. Approximately 225 square miles of 3-D seismic data was acquired on a proprietary basis and the remaining 412 square miles was acquired on a non-proprietary basis. Included in the 3-D seismic data that we added to our corporate database in 2006 was approximately 177 square miles of data from our proprietary Laker project, which is in the Hunton trend of our Anadarko Basin. We retained a 100% working interest in our Laker project.
During 2007, we added approximately 494 square miles of 3-D seismic data to our corporate database. Approximately 62 square miles of 3-D seismic data was acquired on a proprietary basis and the remaining 432 square miles was acquired on a non-proprietary basis. Included in our 2007 3-D seismic additions is approximately 240 square miles of data in the Williston Basin targeting Bakken and Red River objectives offsetting and on trend with recent discoveries in the area. We retained an approximate overall 95% working interest in our 2007 3-D projects.
See “- Onshore Gulf Coast Province,” “- Anadarko Basin Province,” “- Rocky Mountains Province,” “- West Texas and Other Province,” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Commitments - Capital Expenditures” for additional discussion regarding our seismic capital expenditures.
Title to Properties
We believe we have satisfactory title, in all material respects, to substantially all of our producing properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and natural gas industry. Our properties are subject to royalty interests, standard liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other burdens, which we believe do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties. Substantially all of our proved oil and natural gas properties are pledged as collateral for borrowings under our senior credit agreement. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Senior Credit Agreement” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - 9 5/8% Senior Notes due 2014.”
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
Our estimated total net proved reserves of oil and natural gas as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, pre-tax PV10% value, standardized measure and the estimated future development cost attributable to these reserves as of those dates were as follows.
(a)
See “- Reconciliation of Standardized Measure to Pre-tax PV10%” for a definition of pre-tax PV10% and a reconciliation of our standardized measure to our pre-tax PV10% value.
(b)
These base prices were adjusted to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials on a well-by-well basis to arrive at realized sales prices used to estimate our reserves at these dates.
The reserve estimates reflected above were prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc., our independent petroleum consultants, and are part of reports on our oil and natural gas properties prepared by them.
In accordance with applicable requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), estimates of our net proved reserves and future net revenues are made using sales prices estimated to be in effect as of the date of such reserve estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties (except to the extent a contract specifically provides for escalation). Estimated quantities of net proved reserves and future net revenues there from are affected by oil and natural gas prices, which have fluctuated widely in recent years. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve data set forth in the Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. report represents only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground
accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geologic interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by us, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and other factors. The revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered and are highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. Our estimated net proved reserves, included in our SEC filings, have not been filed with or included in reports to any other federal agency. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors - Although our oil and gas reserve data is independently estimated, these estimates may still prove to be inaccurate.”
Estimates with respect to net proved reserves that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves rather than actual production history. Estimates based on these methods are generally less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history will result in variations in the estimated reserves that may be substantial.
Reconciliation of Standardized Measure to Pre-tax PV10%
Pre-tax PV10% is the estimated present value of the future net revenues from our proved oil and natural gas reserves before income taxes discounted using a 10% discount rate. Pre-tax PV10% is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC regulations because it does not include the effects of future income taxes, as is required in computing the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows. We believe that pre-tax PV10% is an important measure that can be used to evaluate the relative significance of our oil and natural gas properties and that pre-tax PV10% is widely used by securities analysts and investors when evaluating oil and natural gas companies. Because many factors that are unique to each individual company impact the amount of future income taxes to be paid, the use of a pre-tax measure provides greater comparability of assets when evaluating companies. We believe that most other companies in the oil and natural gas industry calculate pre-tax PV10% on the same basis. Pre-tax PV10% is computed on the same basis as the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows but without deducting income taxes. The table below provides a reconciliation of our standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows to our pre-tax PV10% value.
Drilling Activities
We drilled, or participated in the drilling of, the following wells during the periods indicated.
We do not own drilling rigs and all of our drilling activities have been conducted by independent contractors or by industry participant operators under standard drilling contracts.
Productive Wells and Acreage
Productive Wells
The following table sets forth our ownership interest at December 31, 2007 in productive oil and natural gas wells in the areas indicated. Wells are classified as oil or natural gas according to their predominant production stream. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we have an interest, and net wells are determined by multiplying gross wells by our average working interest.
Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including wells waiting on pipeline connection. Wells that are completed in more than one producing horizon are counted as one well. Of the gross wells reported above, two had multiple completions.
Acreage
Undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. The following table sets forth the approximate developed and undeveloped acreage that we held a leasehold interest in at December 31, 2007.
(a)
Does not include acreage for which assignments have not been received.
All of our leases for undeveloped acreage summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless we renew the existing leases, we establish production from the acreage, or some other “savings clause” is exercised. The following table sets forth the minimum remaining lease terms for our gross and net undeveloped acreage.
In addition, as of December 31, 2007, we had mineral interests covering approximately 3,447 gross and 2,148 net acres. The mineral acres will continue into perpetuity and will not expire.
In addition, as of December 31, 2007, we had lease options and rights of first refusal to acquire additional acres. The following table sets forth the expiration year of our options and right of first refusal agreements and our gross and net acres associated with those options and agreements.
Volumes, Prices and Production Costs
The following table sets forth our production volumes, the average prices we received before hedging, the average prices we received including hedging settlement gains (losses), the average price including hedging settlements and unrealized gains (losses) and average production costs associated with our sale of oil and natural gas for the periods indicated. On October 1, 2006, we de-designated all derivatives that were previously classified as cash flow hedges and as a result, we mark-to-market these derivatives. In addition, all subsequent derivatives are undesignated and therefore subject to mark-to-market accounting. Mark-to-market accounting requires that we record both derivative settlements and unrealized gains (losses) to the consolidated statement of operations within a single income statement line item. We have elected to include both derivative settlements and unrealized gains (losses) within revenue. As such, unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives are no longer included within either other comprehensive income or other income (expense) and are therefore reflected in revenue. Prior periods for which unrealized gains (losses) have been included in other comprehensive income or other income (expense) are indicated with “NA” in the following table .
Item 3.