Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 and the unaudited financial statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this report.
Critical Accounting Policies, Judgments and Estimates
The Company’s discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. In the event that actual results differ from these estimates or the Company adjusts these estimates in future periods, the Company’s operating results and financial position could be materially affected.
The Company’s significant accounting policies are described in Notes 1 and 3 to the financial statements. The Company believes that the most critical accounting policies include the following: Aircraft Capitalization and Depreciation; Impairment of Long-lived Assets; Maintenance Reserves and Accrued Costs; Accounting for Income Taxes; and Revenue Recognition, Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.
Results of Operations
Quarter ended March 31, 2013 compared to the quarter ended March 31, 2012
The Company recorded net income of $4.1 million in the quarter ended March 31, 2013 compared to net income of $1.3 million the same period of 2012.
Operating lease revenue decreased 17% from $5.9 million in the first quarter of 2012 to $4.9 million in the first quarter of 2013, primarily reflecting lower portfolio utilization and reduced revenue for leases under which the Company does not record revenue in advance of receipt as a result of substantial uncertainty of collectability. The effects of these decreases were partially offset by increases in operating lease revenue from assets purchased during 2012. The average net book value of lease equipment during the first quarters of 2013 and 2012 was approximately $143.4 million and $138.6 million, respectively, representing an increase of 3%. The average utilization during the first quarters of 2013 and 2012 was 81% and 87% respectively. At March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, approximately 79% and 88% of equipment held for lease, based on net book value, was on lease.
Maintenance reserve revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2013 increased 740% to $7.1 million from $0.8 in the first quarter of 2012. The increase was principally due to the recognition of a one-time payment of $6.5 million received from the prior lessee of two of the Company’s aircraft when the leases were assigned to a new lessee in 2012 and recognized as maintenance reserves revenue upon termination of the leases in the first quarter of 2013.
During the first quarter of 2013, the Company recorded a gain of $0.2 million related to the sale of an aircraft. The Company also recorded $0.5 million of other income related to security deposits retained upon early termination of two leases following the lessee’s bankruptcy in January 2013.
The Company’s maintenance expense increased 219% to $2.4 million in the first quarter of 2013 from $0.8 million in the same period of 2012, primarily as a result of increases in maintenance performed on off-lease aircraft and maintenance performed by lessees using non-refundable reserves. During the first quarters of 2013 and 2012, $0.7 million and $0.5 million, respectively, of the Company’s maintenance expense was funded by non-refundable maintenance reserves that had been previously recorded as revenue when earned.
During the first quarters of 2013 and 2012, the Company added equipment to the lease portfolio of approximately $1.8 million and $8.2 million, respectively. The Company sold equipment with a book value of approximately $1.4 million and $0 during the quarters ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Depreciation and management fees increased by 17% and 11%, respectively, from year to year as a result of the net increase in the size of the Company’s aircraft and engine portfolio.
- 13 -
Liquidity and Capital Resources
The Company is currently financing its assets primarily through debt financing and excess cash flows.
(a)Credit Facility
In March 2013, the Company’s Credit Facility provided by a syndicate of banks was increased to $130 million and extended to September 30, 2015 on terms similar to the original agreement. The Credit Facility is secured by all of the assets of the Company, including its aircraft and engine portfolio.
The Company borrowed $0 and $7.4 million under the Credit Facility during the first quarters of 2013 and 2012, respectively. The Company repaid $0.3 million and $0.5 million of its Credit Facility debt during the first quarters of 2013 and 2012, respectively.
As of May 14, 2013, the Company had an outstanding balance of $69.5 million under the Credit Facility. The outstanding balance is $60.5 million less than the maximum amount of the Credit Facility, but the exclusion of certain off-lease assets from the collateral base, and reduced advance rates for other assets included in the collateral base have limited the amount available to be drawn by the Company under the Credit Facility to $12.8 million.
As of March 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility agreement. Although the Company believes it will continue to be in compliance with all of the Credit Facility covenants through the term of the Credit Facility, there can be no assurance of such compliance. Any default under the Credit Facility, if not cured within the time permitted under the facility or waived by the lenders, could result in foreclosure upon any or all of the assets of the Company.
The Company’s interest expense generally increases and decreases with prevailing interest rates. The Company has the ability to enter into interest rate swaps to economically hedge against interest rate increases in its floating rate debt under the Credit Facility and has done so in the past.
(b)Cash flow
The Company’s primary sources of cash are (i) rent payments due under the Company’s operating and finance leases and (ii) refundable and non-refundable maintenance reserves billed monthly to lessees based on aircraft usage. Cash collected by the Company for maintenance reserves and security deposits is not required by the leases to be segregated and is included in cash and cash equivalents on the Company’s balance sheets.
The Company’s primary uses of cash are for purchase of aircraft and engines, maintenance expense, management fees, professional fees, insurance, and Credit Facility interest and principal payments. The amount of interest paid by the Company depends on the outstanding balance of its Credit Facility, which carries a floating interest rate as well as an interest rate margin, and is therefore also dependent on changes in prevailing interest rates.
The timing and amount of the Company’s payments for maintenance vary, depending on the timing of lessee-performed maintenance that is eligible for reimbursement, the aggregate amount of such claims and the timing and amount of maintenance incurred in connection with preparation of off-lease assets for re-lease to new customers. The Company’s maintenance payments typically constitute a large portion of its cash needs, and the Company may from time to time borrow additional funds under the Credit Facility to provide funding for such payments.
Management believes that the Company will have adequate cash flow to meet its ongoing operational needs, including any required repayments under the Credit Facility due to borrowing base limitations, based upon its estimates of future revenues and expenditures, which include assumptions regarding (i) revenues for assets to be re-leased, (ii) required debt payments, (iii) interest rates, (iv) the cost and anticipated timing of maintenance to be performed and (v) timely use of proceeds of unused debt capacity toward additional acquisitions of income producing assets.
Although the Company believes that the assumptions it has made in forecasting its cash flow are reasonable in light of experience, actual results could deviate from such assumptions. Among the more significant factors that could have an impact on the accuracy of cash flow assumptions are (i) lessee non-performance or non-compliance with lease obligations, (ii) inability to locate new lessees for returned equipment within a reasonable remarketing period, or at a rent level consistent with projected rental rates for the asset, (iii) lessee performance of maintenance, and payment of related maintenance claims, earlier than anticipated, (iv) inability to locate and acquire a sufficient volume of additional assets at prices that will produce acceptable net returns, (v) an increase in interest rates and (vi) any one or a combination of the above factors that causes the Company to violate covenants under the Credit Facility agreement, which may in turn require repayment of some or all of the amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility.
(i)Operating activities
The Company’s cash flow from operations decreased by $0.4 million in the quarter ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period in 2012. As discussed below, the change in cash flow was primarily a result of a decrease in payments for rent, the effect of which was partially offset by increases in cash received for maintenance reserves and security deposits and a decrease in expenditures for interest.
Payments for operating lease revenue and maintenance reserves revenue
Payments received from lessees for rent decreased by $1.0 million in the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period in 2012 primarily due to an increase in the number of off-lease assets in the 2013 period. Payments received for maintenance reserves increased by $0.3 million in the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period in 2012, as a result of asset acquisitions.
The Company is receiving no lease revenue for its assets that are currently off lease, which assets are comprised of four Fokker 50 aircraft, three Saab 340B aircraft, four Fokker 100 aircraft and two Tay 650-15 engines. The Tay 650-15 engines, which were acquired during the first quarter of 2013, are being held as spares and used in connection with required maintenance on the Company’s Fokker 100 aircraft.
Payments for security deposits
Payments for security deposits increased by $0.2 million in the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period of 2012 as a result of a deposit received for the sale of an aircraft, which the Company expects to occur in the second quarter of 2013.
Payments for interest
The Company’s payments for interest decreased by $0.4 million in the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same quarter in 2012, as a result of a lower average outstanding principal balance on the Credit Facility in the first quarter of 2013 as compared to the first quarter of 2012, offset by the payment in January 2012 of a portion of the interest accrued on the Credit Facility in late 2011.
(ii)Investing activities
During the first quarters of 2013 and 2012, the Company received cash of $1.7 million and $0, respectively, from the sale of aircraft. During the same time periods, the Company used cash of $1.8 million and $8.2 million, respectively, for the purchase and capital improvement of aircraft.
(iii)Financing activities
The Company borrowed $0 and $7.4 million under the Credit Facility during the first quarters of 2013 and 2012, respectively. In these same time periods, the Company repaid $0.3 million and $0.5 million, respectively, of its total outstanding debt under the Credit Facility. Such repayments were funded by excess cash flow. During the first quarters of 2013 and 2012, the Company paid $2.1 million and $1.6 million of fees related to the extension of the Company’s Credit Facility. Such fees are amortized over the term of the Credit Facility.
- 14 -
Outlook
(a) General
The slow recovery from the global downturn has resulted in a significant reduction in airline passenger volume and, in reaction to that, a reduction in the number of aircraft and aircraft engines needed for operation by carriers in nearly all geographic areas, especially Europe. This presents a challenging environment for the Company in three respects:
• There is an increased possibility of an unanticipated lessee default, as evidenced by the bankruptcies of two of the Company’s customers during the second quarter of 2012, and another recently in January 2013. A lessee’s default and the unscheduled return of an asset to the Company for remarketing could result not only in reduced operating lease revenue but also in unanticipated, unrecoverable expenses arising from the lessee’s default on its maintenance and return condition obligations. The Company monitors the performance of all of its customers and has noted that several of the Company’s customers have experienced weakened financial conditions and operating results and have not yet achieved financial stability.
• There is an increased possibility that the Company’s current lessees will choose to return leased assets at lease expiration rather than renew the existing leases, notwithstanding that any such lessee may incur significant expenses to satisfy return conditions. Due to decreased demand for aircraft capacity, it is likely that the Company will experience lower on-lease utilization rates and longer lead times for remarketing of returned assets, as well as lower rental rates for remarketed assets, as was the case with several lease extensions and re-leases since 2011. This trend is expected to continue to affect the Company’s operating revenue for the remainder of 2013.
• Finally, there are fewer opportunities for acquisitions. The Company’s customers are generally carriers needing additional aircraft to expand their route systems or increase frequencies. In the current environment of diminished demand for leisure and business air travel and consequently reduced capacity by carriers, there is likely to be a significant decrease in the pool of such customers requiring aircraft.
(b)Remarketing Efforts
Unless they are renewed, leases for five of the Company’s assets will expire during the remainder of 2013.
The Company is seeking remarketing opportunities for the following assets, which are off lease as of May 14, 2013:
• Four of the six Fokker 50 aircraft that were returned in the second quarter of 2012;
• Three Saab 340B aircraft, which were also returned in the second quarter of 2012; and
• One Fokker 100 aircraft, which was returned to the Company in early 2013.
During the first quarter of 2013, the Company signed a letter of intent for the lease of its other three off-lease Fokker 100 aircraft and received an initial deposit. The Company expects to deliver the aircraft in the third and fourth quarters of 2013.
The Company is considering selling some or all of its off-lease aircraft. The Company is analyzing the amount and timing of maintenance required to remarket the aircraft, the amount of which may differ significantly if the aircraft are sold rather than re-leased.
(c)Credit Facility
The Company’s Credit Facility was recently extended to September 30, 2015 and increased to $130 million.
Under the Credit Facility, the amount available to be borrowed is limited to the total amount of asset-specific advance rates (expressed as a percentage of each asset's net book or appraised value). Lessee arrearages or asset off-lease periods may reduce the advance rate for the related assets and, therefore, the permitted borrowing under the facility. Additionally, the Credit Facility contains financial and other covenants.
The Company believes that available borrowings under the Credit Facility, considering possible lessee arrearages or off-lease periods, will be sufficient to meet its continuing obligations and repayment obligations as well as fund anticipated acquisitions. However, there can be no assurance the Company's beliefs will prove to be correct and that the Company will have sufficient cash to make any required repayments.
Although the Company believes it will be in compliance with the covenants under the Credit Facility through its term, as discussed below in “Factors that May Affect Future Results - Credit Facility Obligations,” there can be no assurance of such compliance. Any default under the Credit Facility, if not cured in the time permitted under the facility or waived by the lenders, could result in foreclosure upon any or all of the assets of the Company.
(d)Deferral Agreements
The Company regularly evaluates the financial performance of all of its lessees and is closely monitoring two customers in particular. In the past, the Company has granted deferral of certain overdue and/or future rental or reserves payment obligations pursuant to agreements with certain customers that had experienced financial difficulties. The Company currently has no deferral agreement balances outstanding. The Company may agree to deferral agreements with certain lessees in the future, which would reduce the Company’s borrowing ability under the Credit Facility.
- 15 -
Factors that May Affect Future Results
Ownership Risks. The Company’s leases are typically less than the entire anticipated remaining useful life of the leased assets. The Company’s ability to recover its investment in an asset subject to such a lease is dependent upon the Company’s ability to profitably re-lease or sell the asset after the expiration of the lease term. Some of the factors that have an impact on the Company’s ability to re-lease or sell the asset include worldwide economic conditions, general aircraft market conditions, regulatory changes that may make an asset’s use more expensive or preclude use unless the asset is modified, changes in the supply or cost of aircraft equipment and technological developments that cause the asset to become obsolete. If the Company is unable to remarket its assets on favorable terms when the leases for such assets expire, the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flow, ability to service debt and results of operations could be adversely affected.
The Company acquires used aircraft equipment. The market for used aircraft equipment has been cyclical, and generally reflects economic conditions and the strength of the travel and transportation industry. The demand for and value of many types of used aircraft in the recent past has been depressed by such factors as airline financial difficulties, increased fuel costs, the number of new aircraft on order and the number of aircraft coming off lease. Values may also increase for certain aircraft types that become desirable based on market conditions and changing airline capacity. If the Company were to purchase an aircraft during a period of increasing values, it would in turn need to lease such aircraft at a corresponding higher lease rate to compensate for its higher purchase price.
In addition, a successful investment in an asset subject to a lease depends in part upon having the asset returned by the lessee in the condition as required under the lease. Each lease typically obligates a customer to return an asset to the Company in a specified condition, which generally requires it be returned in equal or better condition than at delivery to the lessee. If the lessee becomes insolvent during the term of its lease and the Company has to repossess the asset from the lessee, it is unlikely that the lessee will have the financial ability to meet these return obligations and it is likely that the Company would be required to expend funds in excess of the maintenance reserves collected to return the asset to a remarketable condition. If the lessee files for bankruptcy and rejects the aircraft lease, although the lessee is required to return the aircraft, the lessee is relieved from all further obligations under the lease, including the obligation to return the aircraft in the condition required under the lease. In that case, it is also likely that the Company would be required to expend funds in excess of the maintenance reserves collected to return the asset to a remarketable condition.
Several of the Company’s leases do not require payment of monthly maintenance reserves, which serve as the lessee’s advance payment for its future repair and maintenance obligations. If repossession due to lessee default or bankruptcy occurs under such a lease, the Company will be left with the expense for the costs of unperformed repair and maintenance under the applicable lease and the Company may incur an unanticipated expense in order to re-lease or sell the asset.
Furthermore, the occurrence of unexpected adverse changes that impact the Company’s estimates of expected cash flows generated from an asset may result in an asset impairment charge against the Company’s earnings. The Company periodically reviews long-term assets for impairment, in particular, when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of an asset is estimated to be not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The Company may be required to recognize asset impairment charges in the future as a result of a prolonged weak economic environment, challenging market conditions in the airline industry or events related to particular lessees, assets or asset types.
Lessee Credit Risk. The Company carefully evaluates the credit risk of each customer and attempts to obtain a third party guaranty, letters of credit or other credit enhancements, if it deems them necessary in addition to customary security deposits. There can be no assurance, however, that such enhancements will be available, or that, if obtained, will fully protect the Company from losses resulting from a lessee default or bankruptcy.
If a lessee that is a certified U.S. airline were in default under a lease and sought protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, Section 1110 of the Bankruptcy Code would automatically prevent the Company from exercising any remedies against such lessee for a period of 60 days. After the 60-day period had passed, the lessee would have to agree to perform the lease obligations and cure any defaults, or the Company would have the right to repossess the equipment. This procedure under the Bankruptcy Code has been subject to significant litigation, however, and it is possible that the Company’s enforcement rights may be further adversely affected by a bankruptcy filing by a defaulting lessee.
Several of the Company’s customers have experienced significant financial difficulties, become insolvent and/or filed for bankruptcy. Such an insolvency or bankruptcy filing usually discharges all unpaid obligations of the customer to the Company existing at the time of the filing, resulting in a total loss of those receivables. The Company closely monitors the performance of all of its lessees and the Company’s risk exposure to any lessee that may be facing financial difficulties, in order to guide decisions with respect to such lessee that would mitigate losses in the event the lessee becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy and is unable to meet or rejects its lease obligations. There can be no assurance that additional customers will not become insolvent or file for bankruptcy or that the Company will be able to mitigate any of the resultant losses.
Credit Facility Obligations. Under the Credit Facility, the amount available to be borrowed is limited to the total amount of asset-specific advance rates (expressed as a percentage of each asset's net book or appraised value). Lessee arrearages or asset off-lease periods may reduce the advance rate for the related assets and, therefore, the permitted borrowing under the facility. Amounts subject to deferral agreements also reduce the borrowing base. The Company believes it will have sufficient cash funds to make any required principal repayment that arises due to any such borrowing base limitations. Although the Company believes, based in part on certain assumptions discussed below, that it will continue to be in compliance with the covenants under the Credit Facility through its term, there can be no assurance that the Company’s assumptions will be correct, and if not, the Company will need to seek waivers from its lenders if such compliance failure is not timely cured. Any default under the Credit Facility, if not cured in the time permitted under the facility or waived by the lenders, could result in foreclosure upon any or all of the assets of the Company.
The Company’s beliefs regarding compliance with its Credit Facility covenants are based on certain assumptions regarding the timing of the incurrence of maintenance expense, remarketing of off-lease assets within the time period anticipated by the Company, certain lease renewals, interest rate levels, the Company’s profitability, lessee defaults or bankruptcies, and certain other matters that the Company deems reasonable in light of its experience in the industry (See “Liquidity and Capital Resources - Cash flow,” above). There can be no assurance that the Company’s assumptions will prove to be correct. If the assumptions are incorrect and the Company has not obtained an applicable waiver or amendment of applicable covenants from its lenders to mitigate the situation, the Company may have to sell a significant portion of its portfolio in order to avoid or cure a default under the Credit Facility agreement.
Risks of Debt Financing. The Company’s use of debt as the primary form of acquisition financing subjects the Company to increased risks associated with leveraging. In addition to payment obligations, the Credit Facility agreement includes financial covenants, including requiring the company to have positive earnings, meet minimum net worth standards and be in compliance with certain financial ratios. The Company’s assets secure its debt financing, and any default in payment obligations or other covenants under the Credit Facility, if not cured in the time permitted under the facility or waived by the lenders, could result in foreclosure upon any or all of the assets of the Company.
Availability of Financing. The Company believes that the availability of financing under the current Credit Facility should be sufficient to fund anticipated asset acquisitions through the term of such facility, which was recently extended to September 30, 2015. The Company’s continued growth will depend on its ability to continue to obtain capital, either through debt or equity financings. The financial markets have experienced significant setbacks that have made access to capital more costly and difficult. As a result, commercial lending origination has dramatically decreased, and asset-based debt financing remains difficult to obtain. There can be no assurance that the Company’s belief regarding the availability of financing under the current Credit Facility will prove to be correct, or that the Company will succeed in finding additional funding, and if such financing is found, it may be on terms less favorable than the Company’s current debt financings.
- 16 -
General Economic Conditions and Lowered Demand for Travel. The Company’s business is dependent upon general economic conditions and the strength of the travel and transportation industry. The industry is continuing to experience financial difficulty and contraction due to the downturn and slow recovery in the global economy. Passenger volume has fallen significantly for carriers, and the loss of revenue has affected many carriers’ financial condition. The slow recovery from the credit crisis has made it difficult or impossible for many regional carriers to find the additional debt financing on which they have traditionally relied. The confluence of these economic factors increases the likelihood of failures among the Company’s customers. The spread of a disease epidemic, the threat or execution of a terrorist attack against aviation, a worsening financial/bank crisis in Europe, a natural event that interrupts air traffic (such as the 2010 Iceland volcano eruption), political crises or other events that cause a prolonged spike in fuel prices, or other like events could exacerbate an already weakened condition and lead to widespread failures in the air carrier industry. If lessees experience financial difficulties and are unable to meet lease obligations, this will, in turn, negatively affect the Company’s financial performance.
During the current period of economic weakness, many airlines have reduced capacity in response to lower passenger loads, and as a result, there has been reduced demand for aircraft and aircraft engines and a corresponding decrease in market lease rental rates and aircraft values for many aircraft types. This reduced market value could affect the Company’s results if the market value of an asset or assets in the Company’s portfolio falls below carrying value, and the Company determines that a write-down of the value on its balance sheet is appropriate. Furthermore, if older, expiring leases are replaced with leases at decreased lease rates, the lease revenue from the Company’s existing portfolio is likely to decline, with the magnitude of the decline dependent on the length of the downturn and the depth of the decline in market rents.
Economic downturns can affect certain regions of the world more than others. As the Company’s portfolio is not entirely globally diversified, a localized downturn in one of the key regions in which the Company leases assets could have a significant adverse impact on the Company. Currently, 33%, 21%, 21% and 16% of the Company’s lease revenue comes from the African, Caribbean, Asian and European regions, respectively, with two, two, four and three lessees, respectively.
Over the last few years, several of the Company’s customers have experienced financial difficulties arising from a combination of the weakened air carrier market and their own unique financial circumstances and have requested and been granted deferral of certain overdue and/or future rental or reserve payment obligations. It is possible that the Company may enter into additional deferral agreements if the current weakened air carrier environment continues. When a customer requests a deferral of lease obligations, the Company evaluates the lessee’s financial plan, the likelihood that the lessee can remain a viable carrier, and whether the deferral will be repaid according to the agreed schedule. The Company may elect to record the deferred rent and reserve payments from the lessee on a cash basis, which could have a material effect on the Company’s financial results in the applicable periods.
International Risks. The Company leases assets primarily in overseas markets. Leases with foreign lessees, however, may present different risks than those with domestic lessees. Most of the Company’s current and expected growth is expected outside of the United States, and non-U.S. lessees are not subject to U.S. bankruptcy laws, although there may be debtor protection similar to U.S. bankruptcy laws available in some jurisdictions. Certain countries do not have a central registration or recording system with which to locally establish the Company’s interest in equipment and related leases. This could make it more difficult for the Company to recover an aircraft in the event of a default by a foreign lessee. In any event, collection and enforcement may be more difficult and complicated in foreign countries.
A lease with a foreign lessee is subject to risks related to the economy of the country or region in which such lessee is located, which may be weaker than the U.S. economy. An economic downturn in a particular country or region may impact a foreign lessee’s ability to make lease payments, even if the U.S. and other foreign economies remain stable.
Foreign lessees are subject to risks related to currency conversion fluctuations. Although the Company’s current leases are all payable in U.S. dollars, the Company may agree in the future to leases that permit payment in foreign currency, which would subject such lease revenue to monetary risk due to currency fluctuations. In addition, if the Company undertakes certain obligations under a lease to contribute to a repair or improvement and if the work is performed in a foreign jurisdiction and paid for in foreign currency, currency fluctuations resulting in a weaker dollar between the time such agreement is made and the time payment for the work is made may result in an unanticipated increase in U.S. dollar-denominated cost for the Company.
Even with U.S. dollar-denominated lease payment provisions, the Company could still be affected by a devaluation of the lessee’s local currency that would make it more difficult for a lessee to meet its U.S. dollar-denominated payments, increasing the risk of default of that lessee, particularly if its revenue is primarily derived in the local currency.
Foreign lessees that operate internationally may also face restrictions on repatriating foreign revenue to their home country. This could create a cash flow crisis for an otherwise profitable carrier, affecting its ability to meet its lease obligations.
Finally, ownership of a leased asset operating in a foreign country and/or by a foreign carrier may subject the Company to additional tax liabilities that are not present with aircraft operated in the United States. Depending on the jurisdiction, laws governing such tax liabilities may be complex, not well formed or not uniformly enforced. In such jurisdictions, the Company may decide to take an uncertain tax position based on the best advice of the local tax experts it engages, which position may be challenged by the taxing authority. If the taxing authority later assesses a liability, the Company may be required to pay penalties and interest on the assessed amount, which penalties and interest would not give rise to a corresponding foreign tax credit on the Company’s U.S. tax return.
Concentration of Lessees and Aircraft Type. For the month ended April 30, 2013, based on monthly operating lease revenue and interest income from finance leases, the Company’s three largest customers were located in Mozambique, Antigua and Norway and accounted for a total of approximately 58% of the Company’s monthly lease revenue. A lease default by or collection problem with one or a combination of any of these significant customers could have a disproportionate negative impact on the Company’s financial results and borrowing base under the Credit Facility, and, therefore, the Company’s operating results are especially sensitive to any negative developments with respect to these customers in terms of lease compliance or collection. Such concentration of lessee credit risk decreases as the Company leases additional assets to new lessees.
As of April 30, 2013, the Company owned nine Bombardier Dash-8-300, seven Fokker 100, three Bombardier Dash-8-Q400 and twelve Fokker 50 aircraft, making these four aircraft types the dominant types in the portfolio and representing 25%, 22%, 19% and 13%, respectively, of net book value. As a result, a change in the desirability and availability of any of these types of aircraft, which would in turn affect valuations of such aircraft, would have a disproportionately significant impact on the Company’s portfolio value. Such aircraft type concentration will diminish if the Company acquires additional assets of other types. Conversely, acquisition of these types of aircraft will increase the Company’s risks related to its concentration of those aircraft types.
Risks Related to Regional Air Carriers. The Company’s continued focus on its customer base of regional air carriers subjects the Company to additional risks. Some of the lessees in the regional air carrier market are companies that are start-up, low-capital, and/or low-margin operators. Often, the success of such carriers depends on contractual arrangements with major trunk carriers or franchises from governmental agencies that provide subsidies for operating essential air routes, both of which may be subject to termination or cancellation with short notice periods. Regional carriers, even if financially strong, that are owned by, or are a sister corporation of, an established major carrier can also be swept into bankruptcy if the major carrier files for bankruptcy or becomes insolvent. Two of the Company's regional air carrier customers, one located in the United States and the other in Sweden, filed for bankruptcy in 2012, and one located in Germany has filed for bankruptcy in 2013.
- 17 -
Leasing Risks. The Company’s successful negotiation of lease extensions, re-leases and sales is critical to achieving its financial objectives and involves a number of risks. Demand for lease or purchase of the assets depends on the economic condition of the airline industry, which is, in turn, sensitive to general economic conditions. The ability to re-lease equipment at acceptable rates may depend on the demand and market values at the time of remarketing.
Investment in New Aircraft Types and Engines. The Company intends to continue to focus solely on regional aircraft and engines. Although the Company has traditionally invested in a limited number of types of turboprop aircraft and engines, the Company has also acquired several Fokker 100 regional jet aircraft and regional jet aircraft engines, and may continue to seek acquisition opportunities for new types and models of regional jet and turboprop aircraft and engines used in the Company’s targeted customer base of regional air carriers. Acquisition of aircraft types and engines not previously acquired by the Company entails greater ownership risk due to the Company's lack of experience managing those aircraft and engine types. The Company believes, however, that the overall industry experience of JMC’s personnel and its technical resources should permit the Company to effectively manage such new aircraft types and engines. Further, the broadening of the asset types in the aircraft portfolio may have a benefit of diversifying the Company’s portfolio (see “Factors That May Affect Future Results - Concentration of Lessees and Aircraft Type,” above).
Engine Leasing Risk. The Company currently has eight engines in its portfolio, making up 9% of the Company’s total net book value of aircraft and aircraft engines held for lease. The Company may from time to time lease one or more of these engines under industry standard short-term engine leases, which place the risk of an engine failure not caused by lessee negligence or foreign object damage upon the lessor. It is not economically practicable for an engine lessor to insure against that risk. If an engine failure occurs and is not covered by a manufacturer’s warranty or is not otherwise caused by circumstances that the lessee is required to cover, the Company’s investment in the engine could be a significant loss or the Company might incur a significant maintenance expense.
Interest Rate Risk. The Credit Facility carries a floating interest rate based upon short-term interest rate indices. Lease rates typically, but not always, move over time with interest rates, but market demand and numerous other asset-specific factors also affect lease rates. Because the Company’s typical lease rates are fixed at the origination of leases, interest rate changes during the term of a lease have no effect on existing lease rental payments. Therefore, if interest rates rise significantly and there is relatively little lease origination by the Company following such rate increases, the Company could experience decreased net income as additional interest expense outpaces revenue growth. Further, even if significant lease origination occurs following such rate increases, other contemporaneous aircraft market forces may result in lower or flat rental rates, thereby decreasing net income.
Reliance on JMC. All management of the Company is performed by JMC under a twenty-year Management Agreement between the Company and JMC that expires in April of 2018 and provides for an asset-based management fee. JMC is not a fiduciary of the Company or its stockholders. The Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) has ultimate control and supervisory responsibility over all aspects of the Company and owes fiduciary duties to the Company and its stockholders. The Board has no control over the internal operations of JMC, but the Board does have the ability and responsibility to manage the Company’s relationship with JMC and the performance of JMC's obligations to the Company under the Management Agreement, as it would have for any third party service provider to the Company. While JMC may not owe any fiduciary duties to the Company by virtue of the Management Agreement, all of the officers of JMC are also officers of the Company, and in that capacity owe fiduciary duties to the Company and its stockholders. In addition, certain officers of the Company hold significant ownership positions in the Company and JHC, the parent company of JMC.
The Management Agreement may be terminated if JMC defaults on its obligations to the Company. However, the agreement provides for liquidated damages in the event of its wrongful termination by the Company. Certain directors of the Company are also directors of JMC and, as discussed above, the officers of the Company are also officers of JMC and certain officers hold significant ownership positions in both the Company and JHC, the holding company for JMC. Consequently, the directors and officers of JMC may have a conflict of interest in the event of a dispute between the Company and JMC. Although the Company has taken steps to prevent conflicts of interest arising from such dual roles, such conflicts may still occur.
JMC has acted as the management company for two other aircraft portfolio owners, JetFleet III, which raised approximately $13 million in bond issuance proceeds, and AeroCentury IV, Inc. (“AeroCentury IV”), which raised approximately $5 million in bond issuance proceeds. In the first quarter of 2002, AeroCentury IV defaulted on certain bond obligations. In June 2002, the indenture trustee for AeroCentury IV’s bondholders repossessed AeroCentury IV’s assets and took over management of AeroCentury IV’s remaining assets. JetFleet III defaulted on its bond obligation of $11.1 million in May 2004. The indenture trustee for JetFleet III bondholders repossessed JetFleet III’s unsold assets in late May 2004.
Management Fee Structure. All decisions regarding acquisitions and disposal of aircraft from the Company’s portfolio are made by JMC. JMC is paid a management fee based on the net asset value of the Company’s portfolio. It may also receive a one-time asset acquisition fee upon purchase of an asset by the Company, and a one-time remarketing fee in connection with the sale or re-lease of an asset. Optimization of the results of the Company depends on timing of the acquisition, lease yield on the acquired assets, and re-lease or sale of its portfolio assets. Under the current management fee structure, a larger volume of acquisitions generates acquisition fees and also increases the periodic management fee by increasing the size of the aircraft portfolio. Since the Company’s current business strategy involves continued growth of its portfolio and a “buy and hold” strategy, a compensation structure that results in greater compensation with an increased portfolio size is not inherently inconsistent with that strategy. The compensation structure does, nonetheless, create a situation where a decision by JMC for the Company to forego an asset transaction deemed to be an unacceptable business risk due to the lessee or the aircraft type is in conflict with JMC’s own pecuniary interest. As a result, the compensation structure could act to incent greater risk-taking by JMC in asset acquisition decision-making. The Company has established objective target guidelines for yields on acquired assets. Further, the Company’s Board, including a majority of the outside independent directors, must approve any acquisition that involves a new asset type. While the Company currently believes the foregoing are effective mitigating factors against undue compensation-incented risk-taking by JMC, there is no assurance that such mechanisms can entirely and effectively eliminate such risk.
Government Regulation. There are a number of areas in which government regulation may result in costs to the Company. These include aircraft registration safety requirements, required equipment modifications and aircraft noise requirements. Although it is contemplated that the burden and cost of complying with such requirements will fall primarily upon lessees of equipment, there can be no assurance that the cost will not fall on the Company. Furthermore, future government regulations could cause the value of any non-complying equipment owned by the Company to decline substantially.
Competition. The aircraft leasing industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with aircraft manufacturers, distributors, airlines and other operators, equipment managers, leasing companies, equipment leasing programs, financial institutions and other parties engaged in leasing, managing or remarketing aircraft, many of which have significantly greater financial resources. Nevertheless, the Company believes that it is competitive because of JMC’s experience and operational efficiency in identifying and obtaining financing for the transaction types desired by regional air carriers. This market segment, which is characterized by transaction sizes of less than $10 million and in many cases customers that are private companies without well-established third party credit ratings, is not well served by the Company’s larger competitors. JMC has developed a reputation as a global participant in this segment of the market, and the Company believes that JMC’s reputation benefits the Company. There is, however, no assurance that competition from larger aircraft leasing companies will not increase significantly or that JMC’s reputation will continue to be strong in this market segment.
Casualties, Insurance Coverage. The Company, as owner of transportation equipment, may be named in a suit claiming damages for injuries or damage to property caused by its assets. As a triple-net lessor, the Company is generally protected against such claims, since the lessee would be responsible for, insure against and indemnify the Company for such claims. A “triple net lease” is a lease under which, in addition to monthly rental payments, the lessee is generally responsible for the taxes, insurance and maintenance and repair of the aircraft arising from the use and operation of the aircraft during the term of the lease. Although the United States Aviation Act may provide some protection with respect to the Company’s aircraft assets, it is unclear to what extent such statutory protection would be available to the Company with respect to most of the Company’s assets, which are operated in foreign countries where such provisions of the United States Aviation Act may not apply.
The Company’s leases generally require a lessee to insure against likely risks of loss or damage to the leased asset, and liability to passengers and third parties pursuant to industry standard insurance policies and require lessees to provide insurance certificates documenting the policy periods and coverage amounts. The Company tracks receipt of the certificates and calendars their expiration dates. Prior to the expiration of an insurance certificate, if a replacement certificate has not been received, the Company reminds the lessee of its obligation to provide current insurance certificates to avoid a default under the lease.
Despite these requirements and procedures, there may be certain cases where the loss is not entirely covered by the lessee or its insurance. The possibility of such an event is remote, but any such uninsured loss with respect to the equipment or insured loss for which insurance proceeds are inadequate might result in a loss of invested capital in and any profits anticipated from, such equipment, as well as a potential claim directly against the Company.
- 18 -
Compliance With Future Environmental Regulations. Compliance with future environmental regulations may harm the Company’s business. Many aspects of aircraft operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations, and growing concerns about climate change may result in the imposition by the U.S and foreign governments of additional regulation of carbon emissions, aimed at either requiring adoption of technology to reduce the amount of carbon emissions or putting in place a fee or tax system on carbon emitters. It is likely that any such regulation will be directed at the Company’s customers, as operators of aircraft, or at the Company, as owners of aircraft. Under the Company’s triple-net arrangements, the Company would likely shift responsibility for compliance to its lessees, but there might be some costs of regulation that the Company could not shift and would itself have to bear. Although it is not expected that the costs of complying with current environmental regulations will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, or cash flows, no assurance can be given that the costs of complying with environmental regulations adopted in the future will not have such an effect.
Cyber-Security Risks. The Company believes that it has sufficient cyber-security measures in place commensurate with the risks to the Company of a successful cyber-attack or breach of security. The Company’s main vulnerability to a cyber-attack would be interruption of the Company’s email communications internally and with third parties, and loss of document sharing between the Company’s offices and remote workers. Such an attack could temporarily impede the efficiency of the Company’s operations; however, the Company believes that sufficient replacement mechanisms exist in the event of such an interruption that there would not be a material adverse financial impact on the Company’s business.
Warrants. As part of a previous subordinated debt financing, which was fully repaid in December of 2011, the Company issued warrants to purchase up to 81,224 shares of the Company’s common stock that are currently exercisable (and expire on December 31, 2015) and represent approximately 5% of the post-exercise fully diluted capitalization of the Company. The exercise price of the warrants is $8.75 per share. If the warrants to purchase shares are exercised at a time when the exercise price is less than the fair market value of the Company’s common stock, there will be dilution to the existing holders of common stock. This dilution of the Company’s common stock could depress its trading price.
Possible Volatility of Stock Price. The market price of the Company’s common stock may be subject to fluctuations following developments relating to the Company’s operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets, the airline industry, changes in accounting principles or tax laws applicable to the Company or its lessees, or other developments affecting the Company, its customers or its competitors, or arising from other investor sentiment unknown to the Company. Because the Company has a relatively small capitalization of approximately 1.5 million shares outstanding, there is a correspondingly limited amount of trading and float of the Company’s shares. Consequently, the Company’s stock price is more sensitive to a single large trade or a small number of simultaneous trades along the same trend than a company with larger capitalization and higher trading volume and float.
Item 3.