Item 2. "Properties."
INTERNATIONAL MOTOROLA FINANCING FACILITY. The Company and Motorola Credit entered into definitive agreements, which became effective on February 4, 1999, with respect to the Motorola Financing Commitment (the "International Motorola Financing Facility"). The International Motorola Financing Facility provides for up to $225 million in incremental term loans to the Company consisting of (i) up to $100 million in loans to reimburse the Company for payments made to Motorola by the Company and certain Operating Companies after January 1, 1997 for the purchase of iDEN(R) equipment and related services by or for the benefit of such Operating Companies (the "Reimbursement Loans") and (ii) up to $225 million in loans (less the amount of Reimbursement Loans advanced) to (A) finance the cost of qualifying future purchases of iDEN(R) equipment and related services (including ancillary products and services) purchased by or for the benefit of the Borrowing Affiliates (as defined below) and (B) repay the principal amounts outstanding under the existing financing facilities between Motorola Credit and Nextel Philippines (the "Philippines Motorola Financing") and the Philippines Motorola Bridge Financing. The "Borrowing Affiliates," for purposes of the International Motorola Financing Facility, include Comunicaciones Nextel de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. ("Nextel Mexico"), Nextel Peru, Nextel Philippines and J-Com and such other entities in which the Company holds an equity interest and which have been so designated by agreement between the Company and Motorola Credit.
The availability of borrowings under the International Motorola Financing Facility are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain applicable borrowing conditions. See Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
BRAZIL CURRENCY DEVALUATION. During the quarter ending March 31, 1999, there has been a significant fluctuation in the value of the Brazilian real relative to the U.S. dollar due to the real's recent devaluation. As a result of such devaluation, the Company will record a pre-tax charge (net of minority interests) of approximately $45.1 million on its consolidated statement of operations for the first quarter of 1999 related to foreign currency transaction losses. This amount has been calculated based on the outstanding amount of U.S. dollar-denominated debt of the Company's Brazilian subsidiaries, the average exchange rate of the Brazilian real during the first quarter of 1999 and the Company's percentage ownership interest in its Brazilian subsidiaries at the end of such period. Additionally, the Company will record a negative cumulative translation adjustment on its balance sheet (determined in a manner consistent with prior periods) of approximately $136.1 million based on the exchange rate as of the end of the first quarter of 1999, which will be reflected as an adjustment to the cumulative translation adjustment account within stockholders' equity.
Although the Company cannot predict what other effects the devaluation of the Brazilian real will have on its results of operation and the value of its investments in Brazil, the devaluation could have significant adverse effect on the Company's results of operations due to, among other things, (i) the additional amount in Brazilian reais that the Company's Brazilian subsidiaries will have to pay for U.S. dollar-denominated purchases of certain equipment and services; (ii) the Company's reduced U.S. dollar-converted revenue stream from its Brazilian subsidiaries; and (iii) the impact of the devaluation on the Brazilian economy, and on the economies of the other Latin American countries in which the Operating Companies conduct business. See also "-- Risk Factors -- 5. Nextel International operates in foreign markets and this presents certain risks" and "-- 12. Nextel International's forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from current beliefs."
THE COMPANY'S NETWORKS
The following table provides a brief overview of the wireless communications systems of each of the Operating Companies as of December 31, 1998.
- --------------- (1) The Company through its 81% equity interest in Nextel Brazil, and Nextel Brazil's 95% equity interest in Nextel S.A., the holding company for Nextel Brazil's operations, holds a 77% equity interest in Nextel S.A.
(2) The Company launched commercial ESMR service in Sao Paulo and Buenos Aires in the second quarter of 1998 and Rio de Janeiro, Manila and Mexico City during the third quarter of 1998 and Rosario, Argentina during the fourth quarter of 1998. The Company's Japanese affiliate, J-Com, introduced a multi-functional ESMR service in the Kanto region of Japan (which includes Tokyo) in July 1998. See "-- The Company's Operations and Investments."
(3) Nextel Peru currently offers analog and dispatch-only ESMR services in the greater Lima area. The Company currently plans to launch commercial, multi-functional ESMR services in the greater Lima area in the second half of 1999. See "-- The Company's Operations and Investments -- Peru."
(4) Clearnet publicly reported that it had launched commercial ESMR and PCS services in Canada's largest urban centers in 1996 and 1997, respectively. The subscriber numbers are based on the subscriber counts publicly reported by Clearnet as of December 31, 1998 and include ESMR and PCS services.
(5) Until its launch of multi-functional commercial ESMR services in the Kanto region of Japan (which includes Tokyo) in July 1998, J-Com offered digital dispatch SMR services in the Kanto region of Japan. The subscriber count is based on information furnished to the Company by J-Com as of December 31, 1998.
(6) Represents the Company's share of profits from the Shanghai GSM System, which is accounted for under the cost method. The subscriber number is based on the subscriber count reported to the Company as of December 31, 1998. See "-- The Company's Operations and Investments -- Shanghai, People's Republic of China."
THE COMPANY'S MARKETS
The Company primarily targets emerging markets characterized by strong long-term economic growth prospects, highly concentrated population centers and favorable competitive environments.
STRONG ECONOMIC GROWTH PROSPECTS. The Company operates primarily in emerging markets that it believes offer favorable long-term economic growth prospects.
HIGHLY CONCENTRATED POPULATION CENTERS. The Company primarily focuses its operations in major population centers of emerging markets, including Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Buenos Aires, Mexico City, Lima and Manila. These cities are characterized by extremely high population densities and a relatively high concentration of the country's wealth. In addition, vehicle traffic congestion, low landline penetration and unreliability of the telecommunications infrastructure encourage the use of wireless communications services in these cities.
FAVORABLE COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENTS. There are relatively few licensed wireless communications service providers currently operating in most of the emerging markets in which the Company operates, compared to the U.S.
The Company has also made strategic investments in entities that operate ESMR systems in developed markets (Canada and Japan).
COMPANY STRATEGY
The Company's principal strategy is to grow by continuing to upgrade and expand its existing analog SMR wireless communications operations to incorporate digital wireless communications services, which will enable the Company to increase its subscriber base and revenues. The key elements of the Company's strategy are:
CAPITALIZE ON LEADING POSITION. The Company holds licenses covering more SMR channels than any other SMR or ESMR system operator in Brazil and Argentina and believes it is among the largest SMR (and potential ESMR) service providers, based on its channel position, in its principal markets in Mexico, Peru, the Philippines, and Japan.
EXPAND CAPACITY AND SERVICES BY PROVIDING DIGITAL ENHANCED SERVICES. The Company is upgrading its analog SMR networks to digital ESMR networks using Motorola's iDEN(R) technology. The upgrade to digital networks allows the Company to increase capacity and quality significantly and also offer, in a single digital subscriber handset, additional services and advanced features. See "-- The Company's Operations and Investments."
PROVIDE A BROAD INTERNATIONAL NETWORK. The Company intends to deploy a broad international digital wireless network that will provide roaming capabilities on a single digital subscriber handset to its subscribers in selected markets where it provides service. The Company believes that its current network constitutes one of the largest ESMR wireless communications systems in Latin America utilizing a single transmission technology. The Company's ESMR networks are being designed, constructed and implemented to deliver uniform functionality by providing the same package of integrated, multiple-feature digital wireless communications services throughout in each market.
BENEFIT FROM NEXTEL COMMUNICATIONS AND MOTOROLA RELATIONSHIPS. Nextel Communications is the largest SMR and ESMR provider in the United States. The Company intends to continue to access the technology, operations, supplier relationships, network development and marketing expertise of Nextel Communications in upgrading its SMR networks to ESMR in its existing markets and in entering new markets. In addition, the Company believes that it will continue to benefit from its relationship with Motorola, which supplies Nextel Communications and the Company with iDEN(R) equipment and related services.
MAINTAIN ACTIVE MANAGEMENT ROLE. The Company has acquired controlling ownership and management positions in its principal markets to the extent local law does not restrict such foreign ownership or management control positions. As of December 31, 1998, the Company had a controlling interest in its
Operating Companies in Brazil, Mexico, Argentina and Peru. Where the Company holds less than a majority interest in an Operating Company, it manages its investment through contractual arrangements that ensure representation on the board of directors or comparable governing body and/or enable it to veto, or require its approval of, certain significant corporate actions. The Company actively participates in the management of such Operating Companies, other than in China and in Canada, by (i) selecting the key members of the local management team, (ii) managing the system's technology and infrastructure deployment, (iii) developing business plans and marketing plans together with local management, (iv) maintaining close working relationships with partners, suppliers, regulators and others and (v) obtaining or arranging for financing.
WIRELESS TECHNOLOGY
Currently, three systems dominate the market for wireless communications services: SMR/ESMR, cellular/PCS and paging. The Operating Companies utilize one or more of each of these forms of wireless communications. The following is a brief description of each type of wireless communications system.
SMR/ESMR
SMR, also referred to as "trunked radio" or wireless dispatch communications, is primarily a business communications tool that provides cost effective point-to-multipoint or "one-to-many" voice communications. This service allows reliable, flexible and convenient communications among a defined group of users, typically within a business or "work group."
Historically, SMR operators have generally been unable to provide mobile telephone service competitive with that provided by cellular operators because of various factors affecting SMR system capacity and voice quality. The primary factors affecting capacity and voice quality include: the smaller portion of the radio spectrum allocated to SMR; regulations and procedures that initially served to spread ownership of SMR licenses among a large number of operators in each market, thereby limiting the amount of SMR spectrum available to any particular operator; and the limitations of traditional SMR technology, which employs analog transmission and a single site, high-power transmitter configuration that precludes the use of any given SMR frequency by more than one caller at a time within a given service area.
Partially as a result of the constraints on capacity, SMR operators, including the Operating Companies that offer SMR services, have traditionally emphasized radio dispatch service, which involves shorter duration communications than mobile telephone service and places less demand on system capacity. The traditional SMR market, therefore, has been oriented primarily to business customers such as contractors, service companies, security firms and delivery services that have significant field operations and need to provide their personnel with the ability to communicate directly with one another, either on a one-to-one or on a one-to-many basis. The broader market of businesses and individuals that are primarily interested in mobile telephone service has been largely beyond the reach of traditional SMR operators.
Motorola has developed its proprietary iDEN(R) digital technology, which allows analog SMR networks to be upgraded to digital ESMR networks offering enhanced services such as instant conferencing (enhanced dispatch), mobile telephone (interconnect), short-text messaging with acknowledgment (alphanumeric paging), call forwarding, three-way calling, voice mail and data transmission. The iDEN(R) technology that the Company deploys carries up to three voice and/or control paths per channel for the ESMR network's mobile telephone function and up to six voice and/or control paths per channel for the ESMR network's instant conferencing function.
The implementation of an ESMR network utilizing iDEN(R) digital technology involves upgrading existing 800 MHz SMR systems via two fundamental changes in system architecture. First, the analog transmission format of traditional SMR systems is replaced by a Time Division Multiple Access ("TDMA") digital transmission format. Second, the single, high-powered transmitter typical of traditional SMR systems is replaced or augmented by a number of low-powered transmitters, dispersed across the coverage area, enabling frequency reuse. Additionally, the ESMR frequency reuse system uses a mobile switching office to enable the hand-off of transmissions from one transmitter to another as subscribers move across the coverage area.
During the third and fourth quarters of 1996, Nextel Communications launched commercial service of its current-generation iDEN(R) ESMR networks in several markets in the United States and, during the fourth quarter of 1996, Clearnet launched commercial services of its iDEN(R) ESMR network in the Ontario-Quebec market under the "MiKE(TM)" brand name. Since then, both Nextel Communications and Clearnet have continued expanding their iDEN(R) ESMR networks in additional markets.
CELLULAR/PCS
Cellular telephone systems are capable of providing high-quality, high-capacity voice and data communications to and from vehicle-mounted and hand-held radio telephones. Cellular telephone systems are capable of handling thousands of calls at any one time and providing service to hundreds of thousands of subscribers in any particular area.
Cellular telephone technology is based upon the division of a given geographical area into a number of cells and the simultaneous re-use of radio channels in non-contiguous cells within the system. Each cell contains a low power transmitter-receiver at a base station that communicates by a switch that controls the routing of calls and that, in turn, is connected to the public switched telephone network. The switch enables cellular telephone users to move freely from cell to cell while continuing their calls.
Cellular telephone systems generally offer subscribers the features offered by the most up-to-date landline telephone services. Cellular telephone systems are interconnected with the landline telephone network, which allows subscribers to receive and originate local, long-distance and international calls from their cellular telephones.
A cellular telephone system's capacity can be increased in various ways. Initially, increasing demand may be satisfied by adding available channel capacity to cells. When all available channels are used, further growth can be accomplished through a process known as cell splitting. Cell splitting entails dividing a single cell into a number of smaller cells allowing for greater channel re-use, thereby increasing the number of calls that can be handled in a given area.
PAGING
Paging is a well-established wireless technology, and is widely available in many countries. A paging system typically consists of a number of transmitter sites connected to a central messaging center. The messaging center receives incoming messages from the public telephone network and prepares batches of messages for transmission to subscribers. There are two basic types of paging services: numeric (digital display) and alphanumeric, which allows subscribers to receive and store messages of up to 5,000 characters consisting of both letters and numbers. Historically, paging was a one-way communication service; however, technological advances in wireless messaging have made two-way communications possible. Two-way paging systems allow message acknowledgment responses and the transmission of short data messages by the paging subscriber. In emerging markets where telephone penetration is low, paging often provides an affordable alternative to public telephone service.
The table below illustrates some of the main differences between SMR/ESMR, cellular/PCS and paging.
COMPARISON OF SMR/ESMR, CELLULAR/PCS AND PAGING
THE COMPANY'S SPECTRUM POSITION
The Operating Companies' current license holdings represent one of the largest international wireless footprints, covering approximately 373 million POPs as of December 31, 1998. The Company's current spectrum strategy is to strengthen its channel position in its existing markets in Latin America. The Company also may seek to acquire SMR channels or other wireless communications spectrum in other selected urban centers having attractive economic characteristics on an opportunistic basis.
In order to construct a digital network utilizing iDEN(R) technology, the Company believes that at least 100 SMR channels are necessary in any given market. Generally, the Company estimates that each SMR channel has the capacity to provide service to approximately 100 subscribers using analog SMR technology. Deploying digital technology on these SMR channels will increase subscriber capacity significantly. Moreover, the Company believes its large channel position reduces capital expenditures required to upgrade to digital networks. Nextel International generally owns or has options to acquire at least 100 channels in the principal markets in which it has constructed or intends to construct digital networks. In smaller markets, Nextel International will continue to focus its efforts on growing its analog SMR operations and subscriber base.
NETWORK IMPLEMENTATION, DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION
The Company's networks are in various stages of development and deployment. The Company launched commercial ESMR service in Sao Paulo and Buenos Aires during the second quarter of 1998 and Rio de Janeiro, Manila and Mexico City during the third quarter of 1998 and Rosario, Argentina during the fourth quarter of 1998. The Company's Japanese affiliate, J-Com, introduced a multi-functional commercial ESMR service in the Kanto region of Japan (which includes Tokyo) in July 1998. The Company plans to launch commercial, multi-functional ESMR service in the greater Lima area in the second half of 1999.
The Company's critical design criteria for its upgrade to ESMR networks include:
- contiguous wide area coverage of substantially all of the major population areas and traffic corridors in its licensed areas;
- signal quality comparable to that currently provided by existing cellular and/or PCS carriers in such licensed areas;
- call "hand-off" for mobile telephone service throughout the ESMR networks;
- minimization of blocked and dropped calls;
- regulatory authorizations necessary to offer enhanced services such as mobile telephone service, data transmission and short-text messaging services; and
- cost-efficient routing of calls to minimize local interconnection costs and toll charges and to provide maximum utilization of the Company's ESMR network facilities.
The Company believes careful frequency planning is necessary prior to commencing network construction in order to ensure satisfactory coverage over the entire ESMR network. Frequency planning involves the selection of specific areas in the Company's markets for the placement of transmitter sites and the identification of specific frequencies that will be employed at each site in the initial configuration. Sites are selected on the basis of their coverage and on frequency propagation characteristics.
In addition to frequency planning and system design, the implementation of the digital wireless networks requires site acquisition, equipment procurement, construction and equipment installation, testing and optimization. Sites are selected on the basis of their proximity to targeted customers, the ability to acquire and build the site and frequency propagation characteristics. Site procurement efforts include obtaining leases and permits and, in many cases, zoning approvals. Once the requisite governmental approvals are obtained, the preparation of each site, including grounding, ventilation, air conditioning and construction, typically takes three months, while equipment installation, testing and optimization generally takes an additional four weeks. Following commencement of system operations in a selected market, the Company expects to add new sites to its networks continually in order to improve coverage and capacity.
In certain instances, the Company's ability to proceed with the build-out and/or expansion of its ESMR networks in its coverage areas or elsewhere may be subject to successful negotiation of site acquisitions or leases, the availability of equipment and receiving necessary governmental approvals. In addition, the timing of any scheduled build-out and/or expansion will be subject to obtaining additional financing on a timely basis and typical construction and other delays. See "-- Risk Factors -- 2. Nextel International will need substantial amounts of financing over the next several years" and "-- 6. Nextel International's success depends on its ability to manage the expansion of its operations."
MARKETING
Most of the Operating Companies market their wireless communications services primarily to business customers and mobile work forces, such as service companies, security firms, contractors and delivery services. The Company believes that companies with mobile work forces represent growing sectors of the economies in the Company's markets. These types of businesses often have the need to provide their personnel with the ability to communicate directly with one another, either on a one-to-one or one-to-many basis. By upgrading its operations to provide ESMR services, the Company will increase significantly the quality and capacity of its wireless communications networks utilizing SMR frequencies and be in a position to offer a broader array of digital wireless services to a larger customer base. For a more detailed description of the marketing focus of each Operating Company, see the "Marketing" discussion for each Operating Company under "-- The Company's Operations and Investments."
COMPETITION
In each of the markets where the Operating Companies operate or will operate, the Company competes or will compete with other communications services providers, including landline telephone companies and other wireless communications companies. Many of the Company's competitors are well-established companies with substantially greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, and better name recognition than the Company, and in certain markets may be able to provide coverage to a larger number of subscribers. In addition, many existing telecommunications enterprises in the markets in which the Operating Companies conduct business have successfully attracted significant investments from multinational communications companies. Because of their financial resources, these competitors may be able to reduce prices in order to gain market share. The Company expects that the prices it charges for its products and services will decline over the next few years as competition intensifies in its markets. Because iDEN(R) technology is not compatible with other digital cellular or PCS technologies, the Company's customers will not be able to roam on cellular or PCS systems. Accordingly, such customers will not have coverage outside of the applicable Operating Company's coverage area until such time as (i) the Company builds out additional ESMR markets either as full-scale commercial markets or as "roamer" markets; (ii) other SMR operators deploy the iDEN(R) technology in markets outside of the Company's coverage area and the Company enters into roaming agreements with any such operators; or (iii) multi-band and/or multi-mode subscriber units that can be used on iDEN(R) and other wireless communications networks become available and the Operating Companies enter into roaming agreements with other wireless communications providers in such markets. For a more detailed description of the competitive factors affecting each Operating Company, see the "Competition" discussion for each Operating Company under "-- The Company's Operations and Investments." See also "-- Risk Factors -- 4. Nextel International's future performance depends on its ability to compete in the highly competitive wireless communications industry."
In addition, the various regulatory environments in the countries where the Operating Companies conduct their businesses impose or may impose limitations that adversely affect the Company's competitive position. Certain provisions of the Brazilian SMR regulations impose limitations or restrictions on the Company that are not imposed on other Brazilian wireless service providers. Accordingly, such regulations may limit the Company's ability to compete effectively with other wireless communications service providers in Brazil, including the operators of the Band B cellular licenses. See "-- The Company's Operations and Investments -- Brazil -- Regulatory and Legal Overview."
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
The licensing, construction, ownership and operation of wireless communications systems, and the grant, maintenance and renewal of applicable licenses and radio frequency allocations, are regulated by governmental entities in the markets in which the Operating Companies conduct business. In addition, such matters and certain other aspects of wireless communications system operations, including rates charged to customers and the resale of wireless communications services, may be subject to public utility regulation in the jurisdiction in which service is provided. Further, statutes and regulations in certain of the markets in which such Operating Companies conduct business impose limitations on the ownership of telecommunications companies by foreign entities. Changes in the current regulatory environments in such countries, or future judicial intervention, including with respect to interconnection arrangements, requirements for increased capital investments, regulations affecting prices the Operating Companies are able to charge for their services or foreign ownership limitations, could have a material adverse effect on the Company. For a more detailed description of the regulatory environment in each of the countries in which the Operating Companies conduct business, see the "Regulatory and Legal Overview" discussion for each Operating Company under "-- The Company's Operations and Investments" and "-- Risk Factors -- 3. Nextel International's prospects depend on government regulations in various countries."
THE COMPANY'S OPERATIONS AND INVESTMENTS
The Company, through the Operating Companies, offers wireless communications services in Latin America (Brazil, Argentina, Mexico and Peru), Asia (Philippines, Japan and Shanghai, China) and Canada. See also "-- Corporate Governance."
BRAZIL
OPERATING COMPANY OVERVIEW. Nextel Brazil provides analog SMR services in 28 cities in Brazil, including Belo Horizonte and Brasilia under the tradename "Nextel(TM)." Nextel launched commercial ESMR service under the tradename "Nextel(TM)" in Sao Paulo during the second quarter of 1998 and in Rio de Janeiro during the third quarter of 1998.
Nextel Brazil has a centralized customer service and installation center located in Sao Paulo. As of December 31, 1998, Nextel Brazil, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provided service to approximately 9,100 analog SMR subscriber units and approximately 54,400 ESMR subscriber units.
The Company intends to evaluate the timing of any steps in connection with an upgrade to ESMR in Belo Horizonte and any other cities in Brazil where the Company owns or has options to acquire at least 100 channels, based on the competitive and regulatory environment. See "-- Risk Factors -- 12. Nextel International's forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from current beliefs" and "-- 6. Nextel International's success depends on its ability to manage the expansion of its operations."
Nextel Brazil's operations are headquartered in Sao Paulo and it has branch offices in nine other major cities. As of December 31, 1998, Nextel Brazil's subsidiaries and affiliates had 630 employees.
MARKETING. Nextel Brazil offers both a broad range of options and pricing plans designed to meet the specific needs of its targeted business customers. It currently offers ESMR dispatch and integrated service plans (dispatch and interconnect) in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro and analog SMR dispatch and integrated service plans in its other markets. In accordance with the requirements of Brazilian SMR regulations, Nextel Brazil markets its services to businesses and not to individuals. Nextel Brazil's target markets are businesses engaged in transportation, construction, security services and also include utilities and government agencies. Nextel Brazil utilizes both a direct sales force as well as dealers and independent agents. As of December 31, 1998, Nextel Brazil had 222 direct sales representatives and approximately 25 dealers and independent agents.
COMPETITION. Nextel Brazil is the largest SMR service provider in Brazil. In addition, Nextel Brazil has the largest SMR channel position in Brazil.
Nextel Brazil competes with other SMR service providers and with cellular service providers in Brazil. The SMR service providers that Nextel Brazil competes with in Brazil include MComCast S.A. ("MComCast," a joint venture between Comcast Corporation, a U.S. cable services provider, and MCom Wireless S.A., a Brazilian holding company owned by, among others, GP Investimentos and Grupo Carso), Splice Com S.A. (a subsidiary of Splice do Brasil Telecom e Eletronica S.A., a Brazilian telecommunications equipment manufacturer, "Splice do Brasil"), Teleglobal S.A. and Unical S.A. MComCast operates an ESMR network in the greater Sao Paulo area using a TDMA downbanded-cellular technology developed by Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson ("Ericsson"). The other SMR service providers operate analog SMR networks in the larger cities of Brazil.
Until 1998, all local, long distance and cellular telecommunications services in Brazil were provided by Telecomunicacoes Brasileiras S.A., a government-owned holding company ("Telebras"), and its operating subsidiaries. In July 1998, the Government of Brazil conducted a privatization sale of Telebras, pursuant to which the Government of Brazil divided Telebras into twelve separate telecommunications holding companies and sold a controlling interest in each newly created company through an auction. Since the privatization of Telebras, each cellular market that was served by Telebras is now served by one of eight cellular companies created by the privatization, including Telesp Celular S.A. (controlled by Portugal Telecom) in Sao Paulo; Tele Sudeste Celular S.A. (controlled by a consortium led by Telefonica de Espana S.A.) in Rio de Janeiro and Espirito Santo; and Tele Centro Oeste Celular S.A. (controlled by Splice do Brasil) in Brasilia and other central cities. Additionally, the Government of Brazil has divided the Brazilian market into ten cellular regions, and during 1997 and 1998 it awarded Band B cellular licenses covering all ten regions in Brazil. Accordingly, in several markets in Brazil, including the city of Sao Paulo, there are a total of two cellular service providers. In May 1998, BCP Telecomunicacoes S.A., an affiliate of BellSouth Corp., began offering digital cellular service in Sao Paulo. See also "-- Regulatory and Legal Overview."
PARTNER DESCRIPTION. On January 30, 1997, Nextel Communications acquired an 81% equity interest in Nextel Brazil for a purchase price of $186.3 million, which was paid with shares of Nextel Communications common stock, and simultaneously contributed its interest in Nextel Brazil to the Company. Telcom Ventures, LLC ("Telcom Ventures") and certain affiliates of Telcom Ventures (together, the "Telcom Group") own the remaining 19% equity interest in Nextel Brazil.
On September 26, 1997, Nextel S.A. acquired 49% percent of the capital stock of MCS Telefonia Ltda. ("MCS"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Motorola in exchange for $1.9 million and 5% of the outstanding capital stock of Nextel S.A. (which is held by Motorola International), thereby diluting the Company's effective ownership interest in its Brazilian operations to 77%. In September 1998, upon receipt of approval of the applicable Brazilian regulatory authorities, including Anatel, Nextel S.A. purchased the remaining 51% of the capital stock of MCS for an exercise price of $3.2 million.
REGULATORY AND LEGAL OVERVIEW. On November 3, 1997, the Brazil Ministry of Communications issued new regulations governing SMR service providers in Brazil. These new regulations (Ordinance 557, which adopted Norma 14/97 ("Norma 14/97")) impose limits on the types of customers that an SMR provider can serve, the number of telephone numbers granted to an SMR provider, the amount of interconnect traffic allowed with respect to a provider's network, the number of channels a provider can hold, and provides for consolidation of multiple licenses under one license and various technical specifications for wireless communications networks.
On July 16, 1997, the Agencia Nacional de Telecomunicacoes ("Anatel") was created by the General Law (as defined below) as an independent agency in charge of regulating telecommunications services and performing many of the tasks formerly performed by the Brazil Ministry of Communications. Anatel is in charge of implementing Norma 14/97, issuing specific regulations and licenses (concessions, authorizations and permissions) and applying the relevant penalties for each segment of the telecommunications services. Anatel is governed by a Board of Directors composed of five members appointed by the President of Brazil after approval by the Brazilian Senate.
Many aspects of the law, rules and regulations applicable to the Company's SMR and ESMR business in Brazil are relatively new and still developing. As a result, it is difficult to determine how regulators will
interpret rules or judge compliance and what if any enforcement action would be taken. The Company has had numerous meetings and discussions with various Brazilian governmental and regulatory authorities, including representatives of the Brazil Ministry of Communications and Anatel, regarding its ownership and operation of SMR frequencies and its operation of its ESMR network in Brazil. These discussions have been informal and are not binding on the regulatory authorities. Although the Company expects that further clarifying interpretations and refinements will be promulgated by the appropriate Brazilian governmental and regulatory authorities in the future, the Company believes that it has a fundamentally sound and well-informed understanding of and basis for interpreting the current regulatory framework (including Norma 14/97), and will be able to implement its business plans in Brazil substantially as currently contemplated. There can be no assurance that the Brazilian governmental and regulatory authorities, including particularly Anatel, in the future will not modify or interpret the existing regulatory framework in ways, or adopt further or replacement legislation, rules, or regulations, that could significantly restrict or otherwise materially adversely affect the Company's Brazilian operations. See also "-- Risk Factors -- 3. Nextel International's prospects depend on government regulations in various countries."
Norma 14/97 requires that SMR service be provided only to legal entities or groups of legal entities that perform specific activities. SMR service may not be provided to individual subscribers and all SMR subscriber units must be capable of providing dispatch service. Under Norma 14/97, an SMR service provider must apply to the public switch telecommunications network ("PSTN") to obtain blocks of telephone numbers to be issued by such PSTN for use by the SMR service provider's subscribers. The PSTN will forward the request to Anatel and Anatel will inform the SMR provider of the allotment of numbers. The telephone numbers granted to an SMR provider by Anatel cannot exceed 50% of the total number of SMR mobile subscriber units that the SMR service provider projects to be in operation in accordance with its schedule for the deployment of services.
Norma 14/97 prohibits an operator of a PSTN from adopting practices that inhibit competition or procedures that result in discrimination of any kind against SMR license holders. Accordingly, Norma 14/97 contemplates that each SMR provider may obtain interconnect to the PSTN pursuant to interconnect agreements with the operators of the PSTN. If interconnect negotiations do not produce an interconnect agreement within 60 days of the commencement of negotiations or if full interconnection is not implemented within 90 days of the conclusion of negotiations, either party to the negotiation may refer the matter to Anatel for resolution. The Company has executed an interconnect agreement for the provision of interconnect services on its ESMR network in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro and has obtained blocks of telephone numbers from the applicable PSTNs for the provision of interconnect services on its ESMR network in each city.
Norma 14/97 also limits the volume of interconnect traffic for SMR service providers. Norma 14/97 provides that within an SMR service provider's network, the volume of traffic interconnected with the PSTN cannot exceed one-third of the sum of intra-network traffic volume and outgoing calls interconnected to the PSTN. For purposes of calculating the number of intra-network calls, each subscriber unit called during a one-to-many dispatch call counts as one intra-network call. The evaluation of the traffic volumes for the purposes of the above restrictions is to take place every four months. In the event that the interconnect regulations are violated by the license holders, the licensees are subject to the imposition of penalties under Norma 14/97, including suspension of their licenses. Because Anatel has not yet adopted regulations specifying the format for this report, Nextel Brazil's subsidiaries have not filed any reports under Norma 14/97 with Anatel to date.
In addition, Norma 14/97 provides that SMR license holders may not hold more than 200 SMR channels in each geographic area. Norma 14/97 permits SMR licensees that are under common ownership or control to request Anatel to consolidate their SMR channels under certain circumstances, subject to the 200 channel limitation, under one SMR licensee. Under Norma 14/97, Nextel Brazil had until November 3, 1998 to eliminate any extra SMR channels and to seek approval of the consolidation of its licenses. Norma 14/97 provides that Anatel must approve any request for consolidation within three months of receipt of any such request. Nextel Brazil filed timely approvals to consolidate the ownership of its SMR licenses in each city in Brazil. As of December 31, 1998, Anatel had approved the consolidation of Nextel Brazil's SMR licenses under common ownership or control under one SMR licensee in eight cities, including Sao Paulo, Rio de
Janeiro and Belo Horizonte. The Company held 210 channels in Sao Paulo and Anatel, as part of its approval of the consolidation of Nextel Brazil's SMR licenses in Sao Paulo, canceled, without compensation, 10 of Nextel Brazil's SMR channels in Sao Paulo. Nextel Brazil appealed Anatel's cancellation of its 10 SMR channels in Sao Paulo unsuccessfully. As to the remaining cities in Brazil where Nextel Brazil has applied for approval to consolidate the ownership of its SMR licenses in each city in Brazil where it holds licenses, there can be no assurance that such approval will be granted by Anatel. Upon effectuation of such consolidation by Anatel, the Company intends (i) to request permission from Anatel that the SMR licensees holding the consolidated channels be merged into a subsidiary of Nextel S.A. and (ii) to cause the Nextel Brazil subsidiaries that no longer hold SMR channels to be merged into a subsidiary of Nextel S.A. or be dissolved.
Nextel Brazil's interest in licensees holding 980 of its 2,245 channels in Brazil is structured pursuant to a number of option agreements (the "Option Agreements") entered into with the shareholders of the respective corporate licensees of such channels. Pursuant to the Option Agreements, Nextel Brazil, through its subsidiaries, has acquired a minority interest in each such licensee not exceeding 49%. Although Nextel Brazil has exercised the options under all of the Option Agreements to acquire the remaining equity interest in these licensees, the actual transfer of the balance of the ownership interest in each such licensee is subject to approval of Anatel. Approval for change of control can only be granted after the commencement of commercial operations, and Nextel Brazil has failed to meet the installation requirements for a significant portion of the channels that are the subject of Option Agreements. Nextel Brazil's subsidiaries are currently conducting analog SMR system installation with regard to a significant portion of such channels and are in discussions with Anatel regarding their proposed installation and loading plan. To the extent the Company is not able to acquire the balance of the ownership interest in a particular licensee, the Company believes that Nextel S.A., a subsidiary of Nextel Brazil and the holding company for Nextel Brazil's SMR licensee companies, would be able to continue to maintain its contractual right to render management services for the operations subject to the license held by such licensee pursuant to a service agreement and receive fees under such service agreement. Nextel Brazil, however, would not own such license and the its rights with respect to such license could be limited. There can be no assurance that Anatel would not challenge the validity of such service agreements. All of Nextel Brazil's channels in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro are indirectly and entirely owned by Nextel S.A. and are not held pursuant to Option Agreements nor covered by the proposed installation and loading plan referred to above. While the Company believes it will receive Anatel approval for its installation and loading plan and Anatel approval for transfer of control when it has met the installation requirements under such plan and commenced commercial operations, no assurance can be given that such approval will be obtained.
Since July 13, 1994, it had been the Brazil Ministry of Communication's practice to grant SMR licenses for a 15-year period and to renew such licenses for an equal period upon submission of an application to the Brazil Ministry of Communications. Certain of the Company's licenses granted prior to July 13, 1994 were granted for a term of five years and the Company has been informed by the Brazil Ministry of Communications that such licenses have been automatically extended for a term of 15 years from their original issuance date. Effective July 20, 1996, however, Law No. 9295 (the "Minimum Law"), modified existing law so that SMR licenses granted after such effective date are issued for a period of ten years and renewable for an additional ten-year period upon submission of an application to the Brazil Ministry of Communications. The reduction to ten years of the term and renewal periods for the licenses was confirmed by Decree No. 2197, effective April 19, 1997. In either case, a license will be renewed absent existing violations of applicable rules and regulations and upon application 18 months prior to the expiration of the license. All of the Company's licenses were granted prior to July 20, 1996. Notwithstanding the Minimum Law, a bill was signed into law on July 16, 1997 (the "General Law"), which, among other things, revokes several provisions of the Minimum Law, including the ten-year license term. Pursuant to the General Law, absent any new regulations, existing SMR licenses will remain valid for the term for which they were issued. However, to be renewed or extended, the term of the licenses must be adapted to comply with the General Law. The General Law does not specify the term of renewal or extension of SMR licenses.
The Brazil Ministry of Communications has previously established comprehensive operating standards and requirements applicable to SMR licensees, which remain in effect notwithstanding the enactment of
Norma 14/97. A license holder of SMR channels is required to meet certain installation and minimum loading requirements. The SMR licensee must submit an installation and loading proposal and must commence commercial operation within the term indicated in its proposal, which cannot exceed 24 months. The channels that have not been installed and loaded pursuant to the terms of applicable legislation, the license and the proposal are subject to revocation by Anatel, except in the event of the occurence of certain circumstances beyond the control of the licensee. Certain SMR equipment must be installed within 12 months after receiving an SMR license from Anatel. Additional installation time may be permitted if more than four repeater stations are being installed. The installation time also may be extended at the discretion of Anatel if circumstances beyond the control of the licensee contribute to the delay. Under the former rules, which still apply to the Brazilian operating companies' SMR licenses, the period for installation of the equipment was 12 months, which could be extended, in case of occurrence of events beyond the control of the license holder, at the discretion of the Brazil Ministry of Communications. Further, installation cannot be extended for longer than six months after the agreed upon installation date. Additionally, the SMR licensee must load 30 mobile stations for each 25 KHz channel and 15 mobile stations for each 12.5 KHz channel within 12 to 24 months from the date of commencement of commercial operations, depending on the population of the coverage area of the license. After four years, each 25 KHz channel must have been loaded with at least 70 mobile stations and each 12.5 KHz channels must have been loaded with at least 35 mobile stations. The SMR licensee must evidence its compliance with such requirements by submitting a list of its subscribers to Anatel. Nextel Brazil has been challenged by Anatel in regard to the applicable installation and minimum loading requirement with respect to licenses covering a total of 1,885 SMR channels (including the channels covered by the Option Agreements) in a number of cities, all of which are outside of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Nextel Brazil has filed timely defenses to such challenges, but to date no decision has been rendered by Anatel. Although the Company believes that its defense will be successful, no assurance can be given that such defenses will be accepted by Anatel. There can be no assurance that Anatel will not take action in response to such failure to comply, including the cancellation of such channels, which would have an adverse impact on Nextel Brazil.
Any Brazilian company headquartered in Brazil is eligible to obtain licenses to operate SMR services and there are no limitations on foreign ownership of such companies. However, under Decree No. 2197, new SMR licenses can only be obtained pursuant to a public bid.
On February 20, 1997, the Brazilian Ministry of Communications released the new SMR Rules (the "New SMR Rules"), which governs a number of technical issues, including (i) permitting the combination of adjacent channels in certain frequencies in the 400 MHz, 800 MHz and 900 MHz band and (ii) mandating the use of digital technology for SMR systems operating in channels 401 to 600 of the 806-821 MHz and 851-866 MHz bands. The New SMR Rules also provide that channels 001 to 400 of the above referenced bands will be the object of a study addressing the prospective regrouping of such channels for application in systems using digital technology. In addition, Norma 14/97 established that the Brazil Ministry of Communications by request of all licensees involved can change the SMR channels consigned to such licensees provided that this alteration: (a) does not involve channels intended exclusively for digital modulation techniques, according to the SMR implementation planning; (b) exclusively includes channels already consigned to the interested parties; (c) involves only channels that are in the same radio frequency band and refer to the same service rendering area; and (d) provides each of the permit holders involved with the same number of consigned channels. Because the New SMR Rules allow SMR operators to combine adjacent channels to create contiguous blocks and may provide for a regrouping of SMR channels to create more contiguous blocks in the future, SMR operators may have additional technology choices available to them. Although the Company does not believe that the New SMR Rules will materially affect its technology decisions or the attractiveness of Nextel Brazil's product or service offerings, the New SMR Rules and technology decisions by other SMR operators, including existing and future competitors, may increase competition in Brazil.
From June 1997 to December 1998, the Government of Brazil awarded Band B cellular licenses covering all of the ten cellular regions in Brazil, including the cities of Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Brasilia, pursuant to rules released on January 13, 1997 (the "Band B Rules"). See "-- Competition." Under the Band B Rules, a cellular license winner can provide service in only one major Brazilian market and one secondary market
(e.g., the winner of the Sao Paulo license is precluded from owning the Rio de Janeiro license). In addition, future licensing and commencement of cellular services, as well as the initiation of operations by certain other mobile telecommunications service providers in the areas covered by the Band B licenses, will not be permitted prior to December 31, 1999, except by the existing Brazilian cellular system operators and the holders of the Band B cellular licenses. Some of the largest telecommunications companies in the world have been granted cellular licenses in the Band B auction, which has resulted in significant competition in the Company's Brazilian markets. The Company does not believe that the Band B Rules are applicable to its ESMR operations in Brazil. There can be no assurance, however, that Anatel or companies holding the Band B licenses will not challenge the Company's offering of ESMR services before December 31, 1999.
The purchase and sale of foreign currency in Brazil are subject to governmental control. There are two foreign exchange markets in Brazil that are subject to Central Bank of Brazil regulations. The first is the commercial/financial floating exchange rate market which is reserved generally for (i) trade-related transactions, such as import and export transactions; (ii) registered foreign currency investments in Brazil; and (iii) certain other transactions involving remittances abroad. The second is the tourism floating exchange rate market. The commercial/financial exchange market is restricted to transactions, which require prior approval of the Brazilian monetary authorities. Both markets operate at floating rates freely negotiated between the parties. The purchase of currency for repatriation of capital invested in the country and for payment of dividends to foreign shareholders of Brazilian companies is made in the commercial/financial floating market, provided that the original investment of foreign capital and capital increases were registered with the Central Bank of Brazil. In this case, there are no significant restrictions on the repatriation of share capital and remittance of dividends. The majority of the capital of Nextel S.A., the Brazilian subsidiary through which any dividends are expected to flow, has been registered with the Brazilian monetary authorities, and Nextel S.A. intends to structure future capital contributions to Brazilian subsidiaries to maximize the amount of share capital and dividends that can be repatriated through the commercial financial exchange market. There can be no assurance that Nextel S.A. can repatriate through the commercial financial exchange market share capital and dividends on foreign investments that have not been registered.
Brazilian law provides that whenever there is a material imbalance or a serious risk of a material imbalance in Brazil's balance of payments, the Brazilian government may, for a limited period of time, impose restrictions on the remittance by Brazilian companies to foreign investors of the proceeds of investments in Brazil. The Brazilian government may also impose restrictions on the conversion of Brazilian currency into foreign currency. Any such restrictions may hinder or prevent the Company from purchasing equipment required to be paid for in any currency other than Brazilian reais. Under current law, there is a 15% withholding tax on interest payments. Dividends paid out of profits generated after December 31, 1996 are currently not subject to withholding tax.
MEXICO
OPERATING COMPANY OVERVIEW. Nextel Mexico began offering commercial analog SMR operations in September 1993 and launched commercial ESMR service in Mexico City under the tradename "Nextel(TM)" during the third quarter of 1998. Nextel Mexico, through its subsidiaries and management agreements, provides analog SMR services in 15 cities and along a number of major highways. As of December 31, 1998, Nextel Mexico provided service to approximately 26,100 analog SMR subscriber units and 12,000 ESMR subscriber units. The cities in which Nextel Mexico holds SMR licenses include: Mexico City (with a total of 204 channels representing approximately 10 MHz), Guadalajara (with a total of 60 channels) and Monterrey (with a total of 25 channels). Nextel Mexico has deployed Motorola, Uniden, Nokia and General Electric technology in its analog SMR networks and has deployed Motorola's iDEN(R) technology on its ESMR network.
While migrating its analog SMR customers in Mexico City to the ESMR network, Nextel Mexico has operated parallel digital and analog networks. Nextel Mexico intends to cease offering analog SMR services in Mexico City by the end of the second quarter of 1999.
Nextel Mexico's assets also include 1,040 channels in the 400 MHz frequency band covering central and northern Mexico. Nextel Mexico currently is seeking a purchaser for its 400 MHz channels because these channels are not central to Nextel Mexico's business plan. In addition, Nextel Mexico has built a digital microwave network throughout central and northern Mexico to provide long distance services for its customers. The Company has entered into arrangements for the lease of excess capacity on its digital microwave network with Holdings Protel, S.A. de C.V. (formerly Telecomunicaciones Globales, S.A. de C.V.), a company in which the Company holds a 3.0% equity interest.
Nextel Mexico is headquartered in Mexico City and has branch offices in Guadalajara, Monterrey and Tijuana. As of December 31, 1998, Nextel Mexico had 345 employees in Mexico.
MARKETING. Nextel Mexico offers its analog SMR and ESMR customers a broad range of services and pricing plans designed to meet the specific needs of these customers. Nextel Mexico offers both dispatch only and integrated service plans (dispatch and interconnect) on its analog SMR network. These plans include sale or rental of various models of handsets. The basic price package consists of a monthly fee and interconnect and dispatch charges depending on minutes of use. Unlike many SMR providers, Nextel Mexico sells the majority of its handsets instead of leasing handsets. Nextel Mexico's ESMR service offerings include interconnect services, dispatch radio and paging using one multi-functional handset. Initially, Nextel Mexico is marketing its ESMR network service to businesses with mobile workforces, which it believes will be the most likely users of its ESMR network's integrated services.
On June 30, 1998, the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Commission ("COFETEL") issued a press bulletin in which it ordered Nextel Mexico to cease its pre-launch marketing campaign for its ESMR services because, according to the COFETEL press release, Nextel Mexico's SMR concessions did not authorize the Company to offer the services specified in Nextel Mexico's marketing materials. On July 8, 1998, Nextel Mexico received a letter from COFETEL containing such order. Prior to receipt of COFETEL's order, and based on the press reports regarding COFETEL's press release, Nextel Mexico had ceased its pre-launch marketing campaign. On July 9, 1998, Nextel Mexico sent a written reply to COFETEL in which it informed COFETEL that the Company had ceased its pre-launch marketing campaign and intended to revise its pre-launch marketing campaign to insure that any terms describing its ESMR services were consistent with its SMR licenses. After meeting with COFETEL, Nextel Mexico revised the language in its pre-launch marketing campaign and, with COFETEL's authorization, resumed such campaign. Although the Company believes that its licenses authorize all of the services contemplated to be offered on its ESMR network and that COFETEL will not have any further objections to Nextel Mexico's marketing campaigns, there can be no assurance that COFETEL will accept Nextel Mexico's interpretation of its SMR licenses or that COFETEL will not object to Nextel Mexico's future marketing campaigns.
Nextel Mexico's sales and marketing efforts focus primarily on providing (i) local and regional analog SMR dispatch radio services to its target customers and (ii) local ESMR service to its target customers that require integrated service offerings, including interconnect services. Nextel Mexico's target customers are businesses with a need for mobile communications, such as companies engaged in transportation, distribution, manufacturing and security. Nextel Mexico markets its services through a multichannel distribution network including direct sales representatives and independent dealers. Direct sales representatives account for approximately 70% of new customers and distributors account for approximately 30%.
COMPETITION. Nextel Mexico is the largest SMR provider in Mexico, both in terms of channels and subscribers and has an approximately 30% market share. The second largest SMR operator in Mexico is Radiocel, S.A. de C.V., with a 27% market share. Other significant operators include Intercom and Multicom. The Mexican cellular market is divided into nine regions and there are two cellular licensees per region. Telefonos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. ("Telmex"), Mexico's largest telephone company, has a nationwide cellular license. In the Mexico City region and throughout most of the southern portion of Mexico, the second cellular carrier is Iusacell, S.A. de C.V. (a joint venture controlled by Bell Atlantic). In the northern part of Mexico, cellular carriers include Movitel S.A. de C.V., Cedetel, Norcel and Baja Celular Mexicana. Motorola is a shareholder of each of the foregoing companies in northern Mexico. Poctatel del Sureste also provides cellular service in Southern Mexico.
During 1998, the Mexican government completed the auction of four PCS licenses in each of the nine cellular regions of Mexico, including Mexico City. Accordingly, each market may have as many as four PCS providers in addition to the two current cellular providers. Each new PCS provider is expected to begin offering services in 1999. Pegaso Telecomunicaciones S.A. de C.V., a joint venture including Leap International, Inc. (formerly a subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated), Grupo Pegaso and Grupo Televisa, launched commercial services in Tijuana in February 1999 and has announced that it plans to launch commercial services in each of Mexico City, Monterrey and Guadalajara in 1999.
As part of its drive to improve and increase Mexican telecommunications services, the Mexican government has announced its intention to auction a number of licenses to provide wireless communications services, including licenses for dispatch services in the 900 MHz frequency band and for narrowband dispatch services in the 220 MHz frequency band. These auctions, which were originally anticipated to occur during 1998 and are currently anticipated to occur during 1999, will increase the number of actual and potential competitors that Nextel Mexico will face.
REGULATORY AND LEGAL OVERVIEW. The Secretary of Communications and Transportation of Mexico (the "Mexico SCT") regulates the telecommunications industry in Mexico. COFETEL oversees certain aspects of the telecommunications industry on behalf of the SCT. Since early 1994, the Mexican government has been deregulating the telecommunications industry in order to improve the quality and expand the coverage of telecommunications services. The Mexican government has stated its intention to increase competition within the telecommunication industries and its desire to attract foreign investment for the purpose of improving Mexico's telecommunications infrastructure. Mexico's Federal Telecommunications Law (the "Mexican Federal Telecommunications Law"), which became effective in June 1995, outlines the broad rules for opening the local and long distance service markets to competition.
The Mexican Federal Telecommunications Law requires that all telecommunications licenses (referred to as "concesiones" in Mexico) must be owned by entities that do not have more than 49% of their voting equity interest owned by non-Mexican entities. Although such 49% limitation existed prior to the enactment of the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Law for certain types of telecommunications licenses, SMR licenses issued prior to the effectiveness of the legislation could be owned by entities wholly owned by non-Mexicans. Nextel Mexico believes that in accordance with the terms of the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Law and Mexican constitutional law principles, the 49% limitation on non-Mexican participation does not apply to the SMR licenses in which it had an interest at the time of the effectiveness of the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Law. Consistent with this view, in May 1996, the SCT amended all of the 800 MHz SMR licenses issued prior to the effective date of the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Law in which Nextel Mexico had an interest to delete a provision limiting non-Mexican participation to 49%. Accordingly, all of the 800 MHz SMR licenses in which Nextel Mexico has an interest, except for one license covering 10 channels along a major highway from Mexico City to Guadalajara, were amended to remove the 49% foreign-ownership limitation. Although licenses to provide cellular services are also subject to the 49% limitation on foreign ownership, the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Law explicitly provides for a waiver procedure of such limitations for cellular providers upon receipt of a favorable opinion from the Mexican National Foreign Investments Commission. Unless Nextel Mexico obtains a waiver with respect to the 49% limitation on foreign ownership with respect to the license covering the 10 channels between Mexico City and Guadalajara or is otherwise able to structure future SMR license acquisitions to comply with such limitation, the provisions of the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Law will prevent the Company from having a controlling interest in such license and/or obtaining a controlling interest in additional licenses, including licenses for additional channels needed to build-out digital mobile networks in markets outside of Mexico City.
The Mexican Federal Telecommunications Law provides all wireless services providers with the right to interconnect to the public switched network operated by Telmex. Certain telecommunications companies, however, have had difficulty obtaining interconnect services from Telmex despite negotiating and executing an interconnect agreement with Telmex. Nextel Mexico has entered into interconnect agreements with Telmex for its analog SMR networks in various cities in Mexico and its ESMR network in Mexico City. Nextel Mexico provides interconnect services through Telmex to its ESMR service subscribers and to a limited
number of its analog SMR service subscribers. As the number of Nextel Mexico's ESMR subscribers increase, Nextel Mexico will be required to enter into additional interconnect agreements to provide interconnect services to the additional subscribers. Any failure to enter into additional interconnect agreements, with Telmex or any other PSTNs, or to obtain interconnect services from Telmex or any other PSTNs after entering into such agreements would have a material adverse effect on Nextel Mexico's results of operations. See also "-- Risk Factors -- 3. Nextel International's prospects depend on government regulations in various countries."
Mexican companies may remit dividends and profits outside of Mexico if the Mexican company meets certain distribution and legal reserve requirements. A Mexican company must distribute 10% of its pretax profits to employees and allocate 5% of net profits to the legal reserve until 20% of the stated capital is set aside. Although the Company's investment in Nextel Mexico is registered with the Mexican National Registry of Foreign Investments, registration is no longer a prerequisite for the remittance of dividends and profits outside of Mexico. Under Mexican corporate law, approval of a majority of shareholders of a corporation is required to pay dividends. Dividends paid by Nextel Mexico to its U.S. shareholders are subject to a 5% withholding tax unless Nextel Mexico chooses to pay the Mexican corporate income tax on the net earnings from which the dividends are being paid. Interest paid by Nextel Mexico to U.S. residents is subject to a 10% withholding tax.
ARGENTINA
OPERATING COMPANY OVERVIEW. Nextel Argentina has 240 SMR channels (12 MHz) in Buenos Aires, 200 SMR channels (10 MHz) in each of Cordoba, Rosario and Mendoza, 20 SMR channels in Mar del Plata, 5 in Tucuman and 25 in the Buenos Aires to Rosario highway. The Company believes its channel position will allow Nextel Argentina to compete effectively with other wireless communications providers.
In February 1997, Nextel Argentina launched commercial analog SMR service in Buenos Aires. In the second quarter of 1997, the company began offering commercial analog SMR service in Cordoba and Rosario. Nextel Argentina launched commercial ESMR service under the tradename "Nextel(TM)" in Buenos Aires in the second quarter of 1998 and in Rosario in the third quarter of 1998. Nextel Argentina ceased offering analog SMR services in Buenos Aires and Rosario in the second half 1998. As of December 31, 1998, Nextel Argentina provided service to approximately 8,500 analog SMR subscriber units approximately 35,200 ESMR subscriber units.
Nextel Argentina is headquartered in Buenos Aires. As of December 31, 1998, Nextel Argentina had 514 employees.
MARKETING. Nextel Argentina's ESMR service offerings include interconnect services and dispatch radio and paging using one multi-functional handset. Initially, the company is targeting the mobile workforce, which it believes are the most likely users of its ESMR network's integrated service offerings. Nextel Argentina currently offers analog SMR dispatch and interconnect service utilizing both Motorola and Ericsson equipment. Analog SMR service offerings include private call, call alert and scanning. Nextel Argentina differentiates itself from other analog SMR providers by providing extensive service coverage and maintaining a high level of customer service. Nextel Argentina has a centralized customer service and installation center located in Buenos Aires.
Nextel Argentina's analog SMR and ESMR services are designed to be a business tool for the mobile workforce in its Argentine markets. Nextel Argentina focuses its marketing efforts on businesses that have a need for mobile communications, such as trucking and transportation companies, real estate firms, construction companies, suppliers and distributors and security companies. Nextel Argentina has developed a distribution network and believes a strong direct sales force is essential to reaching potential business customers. At December 31, 1998, Nextel Argentina had a direct sales force consisting of 117 sales representatives. In addition, the company has contracted with independent dealers to market Nextel Argentina's products and is providing extensive training to each of its distribution channels in order to ensure a high level of customer satisfaction.
COMPETITION. The two largest SMR providers in Argentina, as measured by subscribers, are owned by Movicom S.A.(a joint venture that includes BellSouth Corporation and Motorola) and Miniphone S.A. ("Miniphone") (a joint venture among the two Argentine telephone companies, Telefonica de Argentina S.A. and Telecom Argentina STET-France Telecom S.A.) and operate under the tradenames "Movilink" and "Starcom," respectively. Movicom owns 100 SMR channels in Buenos Aires and 40 SMR channels in each of the three other major cities. In addition to operating various SMR networks, Movicom also operates an iDEN(R) system in Buenos Aires. Movicom's iDEN(R)-based digital ESMR system utilizes the higher-capacity, "first-generation" voice algorithm system. Starcom owns and operates 60 channels in Buenos Aires and additional SMR channels in two other major cities.
There are two cellular service providers in each of the major markets in Argentina. In Buenos Aires, the two service providers are Movicom and Miniphone. In 1996, over 425,000, or 64%, of Argentina's cellular subscribers were located in Buenos Aires. In the northern region of Argentina, the two cellular service providers are Compania de Telefonos del Interior S.A. ("CTI") (a joint venture that includes GTE and Lucent Technologies, Inc.) and Telecom Personal S.A. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Telecom Argentina STET-France Telecom S.A.). In the southern region of Argentina, the two cellular service providers are CTI and Telefonica Comunicaciones Personales S.A., a wholly owned subsidiary of Telefonica de Argentina S.A., which operates under the name UNIFON.
The company expects additional competition following the auction of PCS licenses for the largest cities in Argentina, which has been temporarily postponed but is expected to occur during 1999.
REGULATORY AND LEGAL OVERVIEW. The Comision Nacional de Comunicaciones ("Argentina CNC") and the Secretary of Communications of Argentina are the Argentine telecommunications authorities responsible for administration and regulation of the SMR industry.
Argentina CNC regulations require SMR operators to build out their channels within 12 months of the channel authorization issuance if the system is multi-site and to guarantee their performance by posting a letter of credit equivalent to the price paid in the spectrum auction. The letter of credit is released once the installation and activation of the SMR site or sites have been verified by the Argentina CNC. In December 1997, Nextel Argentina acquired an additional 60 SMR channels in Buenos Aires in a public auction and posted a $12 million letter of credit. Nextel Argentina has built out its channels in a timely fashion and the letters of credit posted by Nextel Argentina in connection with its build-out obligations have been released by the Argentina CNC.
SMR licenses have an indefinite term, but are subject to revocation for violation of applicable regulatory rules as discussed below. SMR service must commence within six months to one year after receipt of the channel assignment (depending on the type of network configuration). Failure to meet service or loading requirements can result in revocation of the channel authorizations. The Argentina CNC will revoke the licensee's license upon the finding of a third breach by a licensee of service requirements. Licenses and channel authorizations may be revoked for violation of other regulatory authority rules and regulations. All SMR channel holders that received their channel authorizations pursuant to the November 1995 SMR auction, including Nextel Argentina, were granted an extension to December 1997 from the original December 1996 deadline to meet initial loading requirements. The Company met the initial loading requirements in Buenos Aires by the deadline and believes it will retain its rights to substantially all of its licenses in its other Argentine markets. Argentina imposes no limitation on foreign ownership of SMR licenses.
SMR providers are assured interconnection with the PSTN pursuant to the terms of the tender rules under which the channels were awarded, as well as pursuant to applicable laws. Furthermore, interconnection with the PSTN must be on a nondiscriminatory basis. Nextel Argentina provides interconnect services to its subscribers pursuant to an interconnect agreements with Telefonica de Argentina S.A. and Telecom Argentina STET-France Telecom S.A. for local and national calls and with Telintar S.A. for international calls.
Under current law, Argentine currency is convertible into U.S. dollars without restrictions, and Argentina has a free exchange market for all foreign currency transactions.
Under applicable Argentine corporate law, dividends may be paid only from liquid and realized profits as shown on the company's financial statements prepared in accordance with Argentine generally accepted accounting principles. Five percent of such profits must be set aside until a reserve equal to twenty percent of the company's capital stock has been established. Subject to these requirements, the balance of profits may be declared as dividends and paid in cash pursuant to a majority vote of the shareholders. Under current law, there is a 13.2% withholding tax on interest payments and no withholding taxes on dividends.
PERU
OPERATING COMPANY OVERVIEW. Nextel Peru provides analog SMR and dispatch-only ESMR services in the greater Lima area under the tradename "Nextel(TM)." In January 1999, Nextel Peru merged with and into its subsidiaries and became the direct holder of the SMR licenses formerly held by its subsidiaries. See "-- Regulatory and Legal Overview." Nextel Peru has an aggregate of 130 SMR channels (6.5 MHz) in the greater Lima area. As of December 31, 1998, Nextel Peru provided service to approximately 3,600 analog SMR subscriber units.
Nextel Peru has constructed an ESMR network in the greater Lima area utilizing Motorola's iDEN(R) technology and plans to launch commercial ESMR service in the second half of 1999. While migrating its analog SMR customers to the digital network, Nextel Peru intends to operate parallel digital and analog SMR networks. Nextel Peru intends to cease offering analog SMR services by the end of the second quarter of 1999. As part of the migration process, Nextel Peru is encouraging its higher-usage customers to convert to the digital network so they can benefit from the broader range of service offerings.
Nextel Peru is headquartered in Lima. As of December 31, 1998, Nextel Peru had 181 employees.
MARKETING. Nextel Peru's digital service offerings are planned to include interconnect services, dispatch radio and paging using one multi-functional handset. Initially, Nextel Peru is targeting the mobile workforce, which it believes will be the most likely users of the ESMR network's integrated service offerings. To establish brand identity for its ESMR services, Nextel Peru has undertaken a promotional advertising campaign targeting the business segment of the market. In addition to advertising, Nextel Peru initially will rely heavily on its direct sales force to educate potential customers on the benefits of using its ESMR services.
COMPETITION. The largest SMR provider in Peru, as measured by subscribers, is Radio Trunking del Peru S.A. Nextel Peru is the country's second largest SMR provider. Tele2000 and Telefonica del Peru S.A.A. are Peru's two cellular operators. Telefonica del Peru (a joint venture between Telefonica Internacional S.A. of Spain and Peruvian investors) provides nationwide coverage and operates under the brand name "Moviline." Tele2000 (a joint venture between BellSouth and Peruvian investors) offers service in the greater Lima area, and recently established nationwide roaming agreements with Telefonica del Peru S.A.A. Tele2000 operates under the brand name "Celular2000."
PARTNER DESCRIPTION. The Company's partners in Nextel Peru are Motorola International, which holds approximately 30.9%, and a Peruvian individual who holds approximately 7% of the capital stock of Nextel Peru.
REGULATORY AND LEGAL OVERVIEW. The Organismo Supervisor de Inversion Privada en Telecomunicaciones of Peru ("OSIPTEL") and the Ministry of Transportation, Communications, Housing and Construction of Peru (the "Peru Ministry of Communications") regulate the telecommunications industry in Peru. OSIPTEL is responsible for overseeing private investments in the telecommunications industry and the Peruvian Ministry of Communications grants telecommunications licenses and issues regulations governing the telecommunications industry. In 1994, the Peruvian government began to deregulate the telecommunications industry in order to promote free and open competition for the provision of telecommunications services. The Telecommunications Law of Peru (the "Peruvian Telecommunications Law"), the general regulations thereunder (the "Peruvian General Regulations") and the specific regulations governing trunking services outline the rules for the operation of SMR services in Peru.
In Peru, SMR and paging service providers are granted licenses for twenty-year terms, which may be extended for an additional 20-year term (subject to compliance with the terms of the license). SMR and
paging licenses may also be revoked prior to expiration for violations of applicable regulatory rules as discussed below. SMR and paging licensees must comply with a five-year minimum expansion plan that sets forth the minimum loading requirements for the licensees (the "Minimum Expansion Plan"). The Minimum Expansion Plan may be amended at the licensee's request at the end of the first and second years of the license terms if the licensee determines that market demand for its services is insufficient for the licensee to meet the requirements of the Minimum Expansion Plan. Failure to meet the Minimum Expansion Plan may result in revocation of the licenses. Licenses and channel authorizations may be revoked for violation of other regulatory authority rules and regulations. Nextel Peru failed to meet the Minimum Expansion Plan for 1997, but filed requests for modification of such Minimum Expansion Plan for the licenses in question. In January 1999, the Peru Ministry of Communications approved Nextel Peru's modified Minimum Expansion Plan and the merger of Nextel Peru with and into its subsidiaries. In connection with such approval, the Peruvian Ministry of Communications revoked 8 of Nextel Peru's SMR channels due the failure of one of Nextel Peru's subsidiaries to comply with its prior Minimum Expansion Plans. Immediately following such approval and revocation, Nextel Peru had 130 SMR channels in the greater Lima area.
Pursuant to the Peruvian General Regulations, all wireless telecommunications licensees have the right to interconnect to the PSTNs. Furthermore, interconnection with the PSTN must be on an equal and nondiscriminatory basis and the terms and conditions of interconnect agreements must be negotiated in good faith between the parties in accordance with the interconnect regulations and procedures issued by OSIPTEL. In February 1999, Nextel Peru executed an interconnect agreement with Telefonica del Peru S.A.A. Peru imposes no limitation on foreign ownership of SMR or paging licenses or licensees.
Under current law, Peruvian currency is convertible into U.S. dollars without restrictions, and Peru has a free exchange market for all foreign currency transactions. Nextel Peru has executed a legal stability agreement with the Peruvian government, which, among other things, guarantees free conversion of foreign currency for Nextel Peru and its shareholders for a period of 10 years.
The payment and amount of dividends on the company's common stock is subject to the approval of a majority of the shareholders at a mandatory meeting of the shareholders of the company, as well as to the availability of earnings to distribute determined in accordance with Peruvian GAAP. According to Peruvian corporate law, interim dividends may be distributed subject to the prior approval of the shareholders' meetings.
Available earnings are subject to the following priorities: (i) mandatory employee profit sharing of 10% of pre-tax profits and (ii) 10% of the net profits must be allocated to a legal reserve, which is not further available for use except to cover losses in the profit and loss statement. The latter obligation remains until the legal reserve constitutes 20% of the capital stock. After the legal reserve has been allocated, the shareholders at a shareholders' meeting can then allocate any portion of the net profits to any special reserve. The remaining amount of the net profits is available for distribution.
Dividends paid by Nextel Peru to its U.S. shareholders are not subject to withholding tax and interest paid by Nextel Peru to U.S. residents is subject to a 30% withholding tax.
Under Peruvian labor law, any telecommunications company with more than 20 employees is required to distribute among its employees 10% of its annual pre-tax profits.
PHILIPPINES
OPERATING COMPANY OVERVIEW. Nextel Philippines owns nationwide licenses (with a total of 100 channels representing approximately 5 MHz), to provide SMR, ESMR and paging services. Nextel Philippines launched commercial paging services in February 1995 under the brand name "Infopage(TM)." Nextel Philippines currently offers paging coverage across Metropolitan Manila and Subic Bay. The company provided service to approximately 68,836 paging subscriber units at December 31, 1998 and was the third largest paging company in the country.
Nextel Philippines launched commercial ESMR service in Manila during the third quarter of 1998. As of December 31, 1998, Nextel Philippines provided service to approximately 3,200 ESMR subscriber units.
Nextel Philippines is headquartered in Metropolitan Manila. As of December 31, 1998, Nextel Philippines had 1,183 employees of which 659 were operators serving its paging customers.
MARKETING. Nextel Philippines offers both alphanumeric and numeric paging services utilizing Motorola's FLEX(TM) technology and differentiates itself from its competitors by offering a variety of value-added services, including secretarial services, voice mail, call forwarding, fax mail and group call. Moreover, the company places considerable emphasis on providing a high level of customer service through its customer service center located at the company's headquarters in Manila.
Paging services in the Philippines are targeted at both the business and consumer segments. Nextel Philippines has developed a comprehensive and diverse distribution network and believes that such a diverse distribution mix will contribute to an increased growth in its subscriber base. In order to capture the consumer segment and create brand awareness, Nextel Philippines has 16 owned and operated retail outlets, primarily located within large shopping malls, that exclusively carry Nextel Philippines's products. To target the business segment, Nextel Philippines has a direct sales force of 105 people. Finally, Nextel Philippines has contracted with five major dealers and 75 sub-dealers to market its Infopage products.
Nextel Philippines' ESMR business targets the larger business customers in its markets. Nextel Philippines is focused on building profitability rather than building market share in a similar fashion to its efforts in its paging business. Within the business segment, Nextel Philippines believes the mobile workforce, including construction, service, real estate and sales companies will be the most likely users of the ESMR network's integrated service offerings.
Although Nextel Philippines uses its established paging distribution network and leverages Infopage's brand recognition, it also uses its direct sales force to target other business customers. Nextel Philippines's pricing plans charge a premium to low usage subscribers and a slight discount to high usage subscribers while offering a significantly greater number of services.
COMPETITION. There are two major SMR license holders in the Philippines, each owning 100 channels nationwide, and 12 licensed paging operators. Nextel Philippines believes that it is uniquely positioned to compete effectively in the Philippines as a result of its nationwide SMR license and its fast-growing paging business. There are currently five cellular providers with nationwide licenses in the Philippines, two of which are AMPS operators. Filipino SMART Communications, Inc. ("SMART"), is the largest cellular provider, with an approximately 47% market share. As part of its effort to improve teledensity, the government requires cellular providers to meet certain landline buildout requirements, which require the installation of 400,000 telephone lines. This represents a significant investment for each of these providers. See "-- Regulatory and Legal Overview."
PARTNER DESCRIPTION. The Company's partners in Nextel Philippines currently include an affiliate of American International Group, Inc. ("AIG"), which holds 10% of the outstanding shares of Nextel Philippines, Gamboa Holdings, which is 60% owned by ACCRAIN and 40% owned by an indirect subsidiary of the Company, which holds 20% of the outstanding shares of Nextel Philippines, and the two remaining Philippines Shareholders, who hold the remaining 40% of the outstanding shares of Nextel Philippines. AIG has notified the Company that it has exercised its right to sell its 10% in Nextel Philippines back to the Philippines shareholder from which it had originally purchased such interest, but, to date, the sale of such interest has yet to occur. AIG is in litigation with such shareholder with regard to such transaction.
On August 21, 1998, Gamboa Holdings purchased the shares of Nextel Philippines held by the Gotesco Group. As a result of Gamboa Holdings's acquisition of the Gotesco Group's shares of Nextel Philippines, the Company's aggregate equity interest in Nextel Philippines, which includes its direct and indirect holdings, increased from 30% to 38%. See "-- Fiscal Year 1998 Transactions and Developments -- Philippines" and "-- Corporate Governance -- Philippines."
REGULATORY AND LEGAL OVERVIEW. In the Philippines, the telecommunications industry is principally governed by Republic Act No. 7925 (the "Philippines Telecoms Act") enacted on March 1, 1995. Under the Telecoms Act, the National Telecommunications Commission (the "Philippines NTC"), an agency under the
Department of Transportation and Communications, is mandated to regulate the telecommunications industry.
Engaging in telecommunications operations requires a franchise from the Philippine Congress, which is the country's legislative body. After securing a Congressional franchise, a franchise holder must apply to the Philippines NTC for an operating license called a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity ("CPCN"). The grant of a CPCN goes through a process of public notice and hearing. After receipt of an application for a CPCN for a particular telecommunications service, and after the applicant presents its evidence of legal, technical and financial capability to operate the services at a public hearing, the Philippines NTC will initially issue a provisional authority ("PA"), which serves as a temporary operating permit for the particular telecommunications services applied for. Pursuant to the PA an applicant can commence construction and commercial operations. Nextel Philippines has a PA authorizing it to operate a nationwide digital trunked radio dispatch communications system. Nextel Philippines' PA is subject to revocation for failure to (i) operate continuously for two years or (ii) commence operations within two years of the issuance of the PA or the expiration date of any extensions to the PA. Nextel Philippines' PA expires on January 19, 2000. Nextel Philippines has applied for a CPCN.
The Philippines Telecoms Act provides that a telecommunications entity with regulated types of services must make a public offering of at least 30% of its aggregate common stock within a period of five years from the effective date of the Telecoms Act or the entity's first start of commercial operations, whichever occurs later. Accordingly, Nextel Philippines is mandated to make a public offering of 30% of its common stock by March 1, 2000.
Under Philippine law, foreign entities' direct ownership of a public utility telecommunications company is limited to 40% of the company's capital stock (the "40% Rule"). Philippine law also limits the participation of foreign investors in the governing body of any public utility enterprise to their proportionate share in its capital. Therefore, a foreign investor's participation in the management of a telecommunications company is limited solely to membership on its board of directors and committees of the board of directors, including but not limited to the executive committee. Accordingly, all the executive and managing officers (e.g., president, chief executive officer, treasurer) are required to be citizens of the Philippines.
Presidential Executive Order No. 59 (1993) prescribes, as a matter of national policy, the compulsory and nondiscriminatory interconnection of authorized public telecommunications carriers. Interconnection is negotiated and effected through bilateral negotiations between the parties involved subject to certain technical/operational and traffic settlement rules of the Philippines NTC. Nextel Philippines has entered into an interconnect agreement with Philippines Long Distance Telephone Company and is interconnected through such agreement with most of the public telecommunications carriers in the Philippines. Nextel Philippines, however, has not entered into interconnect agreements with certain public telecommunications carriers, including SMART. If Nextel Philippines and SMART do not enter into an interconnect agreement with each other, subscribers to each company's respective services will be unable to place or receive calls from subscribers of the other.
Presidential Executive Order No. 109 Series of 1993, and, subsequently, the Philippines Telecoms Act (as implemented by the Philippines NTC's Memorandum Circular No. 8-9-25) require cellular mobile operators to install at least 400,000 local exchange lines. The Company does not believe that Nextel Philippines is subject to such requirement, however, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. If this requirement were found to be applicable to Nextel Philippines, it would require Nextel Philippines to make a significant capital investment.
In June and July of 1998, a number of the Philippine cellular mobile telephone companies commenced proceedings with the NTC against Nextel Philippines in connection with the NTC's issuance of an extension to Nextel Philippines' PA in March 1998. The outcome of these proceedings may affect Nextel Philippines' application for a CPCN. The Company is also involved in arbitration proceedings against two of the Philippines Shareholders. See Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings."
Under current regulations of the Central Bank of the Philippines (the "Philippines Central Bank"), foreign exchange may be freely sold and purchased outside the Philippine banking system. Restrictions exist on the sale and purchase of foreign exchange in the banking system. The Philippine monetary authority, with the approval of the President of the Philippines, has the statutory authority, during a foreign exchange crisis or in times of national emergency, to temporarily suspend or restrict sales of foreign exchange, require licensing of foreign exchange transactions or require delivery of foreign exchange in the Philippines Central Bank or its designee.
Foreign investments need not be registered with the Philippines Central Bank. The registration of a foreign investment with the Philippines Central Bank is only required if the foreign exchange needed to service the repatriation and the remittance of capital and dividends are to be sourced from the Philippine banking system. Nevertheless, even without Central Bank registration, foreign exchange needed for capital repatriation and remittance of dividends of unregistered investments can be sourced lawfully outside of the Philippine banking system. The Company's investment in 30% of the equity of Nextel Philippines has been registered with the Philippines Central Bank.
Under current law there is a 20% withholding tax on dividends and a 15% withholding tax on interest payments.
JAPAN
OPERATING COMPANY OVERVIEW. J-Com launched ESMR service in the Kanto region of Japan (which includes Tokyo) in the third quarter of 1998. J-Com provides its ESMR services to its subscribers pursuant to a subentrustment agreement with Motorola Japan Ltd., a subsidiary of Motorola ("Motorola Japan"). J-Com's ESMR network operates on the 1.5 GHz frequency rather than the 800 MHz frequency used by the Company's other SMR Operating Companies. As of December 31, 1998, J-Com provided service to approximately 40,000 ESMR subscriber units.
J-Com is headquartered in Tokyo. As of December 31, 1998, J-Com had 109 employees.
MARKETING. J-Com's current sales and marketing efforts focus primarily on providing cost-effective, local ESMR services to its target customers, which are primarily businesses in the transportation industry. J-Com believes that businesses with mobile workforces will be the most likely users of its integrated digital service offerings and accordingly, J-Com will target such business customers. In addition to advertising, J-Com will initially rely on its network of independent dealers to sell J-Com's services to potential subscribers.
COMPETITION. Japan has two licensed SMR providers, both of which are nonprofit organizations. The Japan Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (the "Japan MPT") has promulgated regulations that provide that SMR licenses may only be granted to nonprofit organizations. Such organizations may, however, entrust the operation of the network under such license to a commercial entity or entities. The Japan MPT has granted licenses to two commercial SMR providers: (1) National Mobile Radio Centers Council ("MRC"), which began offering commercial analog SMR service in 1982, is an association of eight mobile radio centers that are regionally organized and supported financially by the Japanese government and several other companies, such as manufacturers and dealers and (2) Japan Mobile Telecommunications Association ("JAMTA") which was founded in 1994 and began offering commercial analog SMR service the same year. Pursuant to an entrustment agreement, Motorola Japan is authorized to operate JAMTA's SMR business. Pursuant to a entrustment agreement, Motorola Japan has sublicensed the operation of JAMTA's digital SMR business on the 1.5 GHz frequency to J-Com. Motorola Japan continues to operate JAMTA's analog SMR business, which uses the 800 MHz frequency. MRC and JAMTA are licensed to offer both analog and digital SMR services.
Japan is divided into ten cellular licensing regions including Kanto and Shin-etsu (the Tokyo metro area), Tokai, Kansai, Hokuriku, Chugoku, Shikoku, Kyushu, Hokkaido, Tohoku and Okinawa. For the most populous and economically active regions, Kanto, Tokai and Kansai, the Japan MPT licensed four operators in each region. With the exception of Okinawa, three service providers have been licensed to operate in each of the remaining six regions. In Okinawa, Daini Denden Incorporated ("DDI") is the only operator. In
July 1995, Japan launched the world's first commercial PCS network (referred to as "Personal Handyphone Service" or "PHS" in Japan). The Japan MPT divided the country into ten PHS licensing regions, allowing up to three operators in each region.
The largest cellular operator is state-owned Nippon Telegraph and Telephone ("NTT") DoCoMo, with a market share of more than 50%, followed by DDI, Digital Phone Group, Nippon Idou Tsushin Corp. (IDO), TU-KA Group and Digital TU-KA Group, respectively. DDI Pocket Telephone is the largest PHS operator, with a 42% market share, followed by NTT Personal and Astel.
PARTNER DESCRIPTION. The Company holds a 21% equity interest in J-Com. The Company's partners in J-Com are DJSMR Business Partnership, a Japanese partnership in which Motorola Japan is the majority partner, which holds a 49% equity interest, Nichimen, which holds a 25% equity interest, and ORIX, which holds a 5% equity interest.
REGULATORY AND LEGAL OVERVIEW. The Japan MPT regulates the telecommunications industry in Japan. The Japan Radio Wave Law ("RWL") governs all users of radio spectrum. Additionally, the Japan Telecommunications Business Law ("Japan TBL") governs the operations of telecommunications providers. The Japan MPT classifies telecommunications service providers as either "Type One" or "Type Two." Type One operators, which include cellular, PHS and paging providers, own and operate telecommunications infrastructure and Type Two operators, which are all services under the Japan MPT's jurisdictions not classified as Type One, provide value-added services and basic services through leased circuits from Type I operators. Both Type One and Type Two operators are governed by the Japan RWL and the Japan TBL. The Japan TBL requires Type One service providers to comply with certain infrastructure and network requirements, but provides specific procedures for interconnection to the PSTNs. The Japan MPT has not classified JAMTA as a Type One operator.
The Japan MPT regulates the use of radio frequency assigned for SMR services by the grant of licenses for radio equipment to be installed on the SMR network. Each license is granted for terms of up to five years, which may be renewed for additional five-year terms. There are no loading requirements with respect to such licenses.
Wireless telecommunications services operators have the right to interconnect to the PSTN subject to approval by the Japan MPT of the interconnect agreement between the wireless telecommunications services operator and the PSTN. The Japan MPT has approved J-Com's interconnect agreement with NTT.
There are no foreign-ownership restrictions for Japanese telecommunications companies other than for ownership of NTT and Kokusai Denshin Denwa.
Under current law, the Japanese Yen is convertible into U.S. dollars without restrictions, and Japan has a free exchange market for all foreign currency transactions. Dividends and interest paid by J-Com to its U.S. shareholders are subject to a 10% withholding tax pursuant to the tax treaty between the U.S. and Japan.
CANADA
OPERATING COMPANY OVERVIEW. The Company currently owns 583,104 Class A Common Shares and 7,790,741 Class D Common Shares of Clearnet (each of which Class D Common Share is convertible at the option of the holder into one Class A Common Share). Clearnet is the largest SMR operator in Canada as measured by the number of current subscribers, the number of 800 MHz channels and the population of its service territory. Clearnet reported publicly that as of December 31, 1998, it provided analog SMR services to approximately 40,532 subscriber units and ESMR services in Ontario, Quebec and British Columbia to approximately 114,095 subscriber units. Additionally Clearnet holds one of the two national 30 MHz licenses to provide PCS in Canada. Clearnet launched PCS services in Canada's largest urban centers in October 1997 and reported publicly that as of December 31, 1998, it had approximately 194,378 PCS subscribers. The Company has two representatives on Clearnet's board of directors. Clearnet files periodic and other reports with the Commission pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act. More detailed and specific information concerning Clearnet and information regarding the Company's rights to representation on the Clearnet Board of Directors is contained in such Exchange Act reports.
SHANGHAI, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
OPERATING COMPANY OVERVIEW. The Shanghai GSM System is a cooperative project established by China United Telecommunications, Ltd. ("Unicom") and Shanghai Science Technology Investment Corp. Ltd. ("SSTIC") to construct and operate a GSM cellular network in Shanghai. The Shanghai GSM System commenced commercial operations in July 1995 and as of December 31, 1998 reported that it had approximately 165,500 subscribers. The current network has 143 cell sites covering the greater Shanghai region (including the Pudong New Area). Under the current laws of the People's Republic of China, foreign investors are not permitted to be involved directly in the ownership or operation of telecommunications services.
In August 1995, the Company formed a joint venture with SSTIC pursuant to which the Company provided financial support to the Shanghai GSM System for construction of the initial phases of the system in exchange for a contractual right to share profits from the system with SSTIC. The Company also provides advice and direction to the Shanghai GSM System in the key areas of engineering, customer care, billing practices, quality assurance and system performance.
In December 1997, CCT Technology Services Limited ("CCT") acquired a 51% ownership interest in Shanghai CCT McCaw, in which the Company had a 60% equity interest, in exchange for approximately $46 million of investments in the forms of equity, shareholder loans, shareholder guarantees and fees. CCT's 51% interest represents the right to receive 20.5% of the profits generated by the Shanghai GSM System. CCT's proposed investment in Shanghai CCT McCaw received the necessary governmental approvals, whereupon a new business license reflecting CCT's admission as a new shareholder of Shanghai CCT McCaw and the change of the name to Shanghai CCT McCaw, was issued. In consideration for its admission as a shareholder of Shanghai CCT McCaw, CCT agreed to provide the funds necessary to enable Shanghai CCT McCaw to meet its funding obligations with respect to the expansion of the Shanghai GSM system (the "Phase III Expansion"). As a result of CCT's acquisition of a 51% ownership interest in Shanghai CCT McCaw, the Company's ownership interest in Shanghai CCT McCaw was diluted from 60% to 30% and the Company's contractual rights to the profits generated by the Shanghai GSM System was diluted from 25.2% to 12.1%.
Shanghai CCT McCaw currently employs five people, all of whom are local Chinese. CCT has appointed the General Manager of Shanghai CCT McCaw, who is seconded by CCT to Shanghai CCT McCaw and remains on the payroll of CCT.
Shanghai CCT McCaw initially provided technical advice to the Shanghai GSM System during the construction phase of the network. Shanghai CCT McCaw has continued to provide technical support in the ongoing process of upgrading the quality and coverage of the GSM network and has become increasingly involved in supporting the development of a diversified sales and marketing plan to compete with the systems operated by China Telecom, which is an entity controlled by the Ministry of Information and Industry (the "China MII," formerly the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications).
COMPETITION. There are only two authorized cellular providers in Shanghai, Unicom and the Shanghai PTA (the local branch of the China MII). The Shanghai PTA has been in operation since 1989 and operates three cellular networks (two TACS systems and one GSM system).
PARTNER DESCRIPTION. Unicom was established in 1994 by the Ministry of Electronics Industry, the Ministry of Railways, the Ministry of Power and 13 other shareholders, including SSTIC. SSTIC is an investment holding company established for the purpose of developing the Shanghai high-technology industry. SSTIC was formed by the Municipal Government of Shanghai, six major Shanghai banks as well as two major diversified Shanghai conglomerates. SSTIC is also a shareholder of Unicom.
CCT is the Company's other partner in Shanghai CCT McCaw. CCT is CCT Telecom's holding company for its domestic telecommunications business in China. Its investments include a communications project in Guangzhou and a second GSM project in Shanxi province.
REGULATORY AND LEGAL OVERVIEW. Until 1994, the China MII was the sole entity authorized to provide public telecommunications services in China. In July 1994, the State Council established Unicom with the authority to provide public telecommunications services. In addition, pursuant to a 1995 agreement the China MII and the Peoples Liberation Army (the "PLA") agreed to jointly develop 800 MHz cellular communications networks to provide wireless communications services to the public using spectrum originally allocated to the PLA for military communications use. Accordingly, there are three entities in China authorized to provide cellular telecommunications services to the public. The China MII continues in its role as the central government's regulatory authority over the telecommunications sector.
Under current Chinese law, foreign investors are not permitted to be involved directly in the ownership or operation of telecommunications services.
Prior to September 1998, Unicom had requested that Shanghai CCT McCaw participate in financing the Phase IV of the Shanghai GSM System. While the Company had previously advised its partners in Shanghai CCT McCaw that it was not willing to provide funding for Phase IV of the Shanghai GSM System, such partners advised the Company that each intended to participate in the funding of Phase IV.
In September 1998, Unicom advised the parties that pursuant to a new policy of the Chinese government, Unicom was no longer permitted to enter into any new contracts for its projects wherein financing was derived through investment structures involving indirect investment by foreign investors, including the structure utilized by Shanghai CCT McCaw with respect to the Shanghai GSM System. Further, Unicom advised the parties that it intended to finance Phase IV and any possible future expansions of the Shanghai GSM System on its own using financing derived independently of Shanghai CCT McCaw.
To date, the Company is not aware of any new rules or regulations that have been published or announced by the Chinese government with respect to the new policy cited by Unicom or with respect to the treatment of existing contracts such as those in existence between Shanghai CCT McCaw and Unicom under such new policy. Pursuant to various discussions between and among representatives of Shanghai CCT McCaw, the Company and Unicom, the Company believes that under the unpublished restrictions imposed by the Chinese government (a) no agreement with respect to Phase IV or subsequent phases will be entered into with Shanghai CCT McCaw or any other investor that derives funds directly or indirectly from foreign parties and (b) Shanghai CCT McCaw's existing contract with Unicom will remain in effect and enforceable. However, it is unclear what effect the new policy will have on the respective rights of Unicom and Shanghai CCT McCaw with respect to the Shanghai GSM System. The restrictions to be imposed on the Company pursuant to the new, unpublished regulations may have a material adverse effect on Shanghai CCT McCaw's interest in the Shanghai GSM System and the value of the Company's investment in Shanghai CCT McCaw. The Company's investment in Shanghai CCT McCaw is carried on the Company's book at cost, which was approximately $15.7 million as of December 31, 1998.
Pursuant to the current PRC Regulation on Foreign Exchange Control, Renminbi, the currency of China, is freely convertible under current account, however, it is not freely convertible under capital account. A foreign invested enterprise is permitted to convert its Renminbi earnings to foreign currencies for the purpose of enabling the foreign investors to receive dividends and interest payments. Conversion of Renminbi to foreign currencies for the purpose of repatriating foreign investors' capital contributions to, and principal payments from, a foreign invested enterprise is subject to approval by relevant government authorities, which approval will be granted upon showing that the foreign invested enterprise has been lawfully terminated and dissolved or the loan has been properly registered, as the case may be. The company's loan to Shanghai CCT McCaw has been registered with the relevant governmental authority. Under current law there is a 10% withholding tax on interest payments and no withholding tax on dividends paid to foreign investors out of the foreign invested enterprise.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
As of December 31, 1998, Nextel International owned 100% of its Operating Companies in Mexico and Argentina. The following is a description of the Company's contractual relationships with its partners in the other Operating Companies.
BRAZIL. The Company owns 81% of the capital stock of Nextel Brazil, which entitles it to 90% of the voting rights. The Company, therefore, has the right to make management and operating decisions of Nextel Brazil. The Telcom Group owns 19% of the capital stock, which entitles it to 10% of the voting rights. The Telcom Group has the right to designate candidates representing at least 10% of the directors of Nextel Brazil, but at least one candidate so long as the Telcom Group owns at least 10% of Nextel Brazil. The Telcom Group holds veto rights with respect to the following actions: (i) amending the articles of incorporation or bylaws of Nextel Brazil; (ii) creating any equity senior to the existing shares of Nextel Brazil or changing or adversely affecting any provisions or rights of the existing shares of Nextel Brazil; (iii) permitting or causing Nextel Brazil or any of its material subsidiaries to issue voting securities with voting rights different from those to which then-issued securities are entitled; (iv) entering into a merger, a sale of substantially all of the assets, a dissolution, a liquidation or a spin-off of Nextel Brazil or any of its material subsidiaries; (v) permitting Nextel Brazil or any of its subsidiaries to enter into a material contract with the Company or its affiliates other than on an arm's-length, fair-market-value basis; or (vi) permitting Nextel Brazil or any of its affiliates to issue or dispose of securities of the company other than for cash at fair market value. If the Telcom Group exercises its veto rights, Nextel Brazil has the right to purchase (upon vote of a simple majority of its board of directors) all of the Telcom Group's shares of Nextel Brazil then-owned by them at their appraised fair market value. The repurchase price can be paid in cash or in shares of Nextel Communications common stock or a combination thereof. Nextel Brazil has the right to declare dividends without the approval of the Telcom Group.
The Telcom Group has the right to defer making its pro rata share of any capital calls that may arise until April 29, 1999 without suffering any dilution of its right to receive dividends and other cash or noncash distributions; provided, however, that the failure by the Telcom Group to ultimately make such capital contributions (and interest thereon) by April 29, 1999 will result in the proportionate dilution of its economic interest in Nextel Brazil. Based on capital contributions made to by the Company to Nextel Brazil as of March 29, 1999, if the Telcom Group chooses not to make the required capital contributions on April 29, 1999, its interest in Nextel Brazil will decrease and the Company's interest will increase proportionately. The Telcom Group has the right at any time between October 31, 2001 and November 1, 2003, or at any time after a change of control of Nextel Brazil, to require Nextel Brazil to redeem the Telcom Group's entire interest at its appraised fair market value. The redemption price is payable in cash, or, at Nextel Brazil's election, publicly traded common stock of any entity owning 50% or more of Nextel Brazil or a combination thereof. In the event that Nextel Brazil issues additional shares of its common stock to such a third party and, as a result, the Telcom Group's interest in Nextel Brazil is reduced to less than 17%, the Telcom Group has the right to purchase additional shares in Nextel Brazil such that after the issuance to a third party, the Telcom Group would own no more than 17% of the outstanding common stock.
The Company has a right of first refusal with respect to proposed transfers by members of the Telcom Group of their respective interests in Nextel Brazil and has the right to compel the Telcom Group to join in any proposed transfer by the Company of its entire interest in Nextel Brazil. The Telcom Group has the right to join in any proposed transfer by the Company of its entire interest in Nextel Brazil.
Nextel Brazil is the owner of 95% of the share capital of Nextel S.A. in the form of Nextel S.A. Class A Common Stock. In September 1997, the Company sold 5% of Nextel S.A. to Motorola International in the form of Nextel S.A. Class B Common Stock. Except for the veto rights of the Telcom Group described above and except for the restrictions described below, the Company has the right to make management and operating decisions of Nextel S.A. Nextel Brazil has a right of first refusal with respect to transfers of Nextel S.A. capital stock by any other shareholder of Nextel S.A. Each shareholder of Nextel S.A., other than Nextel Brazil, has the right to include all, but not less than all, of such shareholder's shares in any transfer by Nextel Brazil to a third party. If the Company transfers control of Nextel Brazil, the Company is obligated to ensure that all other shareholders of Nextel S.A. are provided the right to receive economic benefits comparable to those described in the previous sentence. Nextel Brazil has the right to cause the other shareholders of Nextel Brazil to sell their shares if Nextel Brazil transfers its entire interest in Nextel S.A.
PERU. The Company owns 62.1% of the capital stock of Nextel Peru, Motorola International owns 30.9% and a corporation controlled by Oscar Benalcazar Coz, a Peruvian citizen, owns 7%. As long as the
Company controls Nextel Peru, the Company will have the right to designate for election four members of the seven-member board of directors of Nextel Peru. Each shareholder of 10% or more of the outstanding shares of Nextel Peru has a right to designate one of the seven members of Nextel Peru's board of directors. If any shareholder fails to maintain at least a 10% ownership interest in Nextel Peru, the directors designated for election by such shareholder will be required to resign.
The following actions require the approval of at least five members of the board of directors of Nextel Peru (including each of the directors designated by each shareholder holding at least 19% of the outstanding shares of Nextel Peru): (i) participation in and approval of the selection of the senior management of Nextel Peru (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld); (ii) adoption or amendment of any three-year business plan and budget; and (iii) approval of any expenditures for any year that would cause free cash flow for such year to be more than 15% less than the amount approved in the business plan for such year. In addition, the following actions must be approved by an absolute majority of the outstanding shares at a shareholders' meeting having a quorum of at least 83% of the outstanding shares: (i) increasing or decreasing the authorized share capital of Nextel Peru; (ii) issuing debentures; (iii) entering into a merger, or sale of substantially all of the assets of Nextel Peru; or (iv) dissolving, liquidating or winding-up of Nextel Peru.
Each shareholder of 5% or more of the outstanding shares of Nextel Peru has a right of first refusal with respect to transfers by the other shareholders. The other shareholders have the right to join in any proposed transfer by the Company of its controlling interest in Nextel Peru. The Company has the right to cause the other shareholders of Nextel Peru to join in any proposed transfer of all of the outstanding shares of Nextel Peru. Nextel Peru may not transfer any shares of capital stock of its subsidiaries without the prior written consent of each holder of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of Nextel Peru.
If Nextel Peru makes a capital call on its shareholders and a shareholder fails to make a required capital contribution, subject to certain conditions, (i) the director or directors nominated by such shareholder will be required to resign, (ii) the other shareholders may make all or any part of such capital contribution and receive shares of Nextel Peru in exchange and (iii) the other shareholders may purchase, or Nextel Peru may redeem, all or any of the shares of Nextel Peru owned by such shareholder. If any shareholder materially breaches any provision of the Shareholders Agreement dated as of January 29, 1998, by and among Nextel Peru and the shareholders of Nextel Peru, the other shareholders have the right to purchase any or all of the shares of Nextel Peru owned by such shareholder at a value based on total paid-in capital, if the breach occurs prior to January 29, 2000, and at 75% of appraised fair market value thereafter.
Motorola has the right to cause Nextel Peru to acquire all shares of Nextel Peru held by Motorola and its affiliates at the appraised fair market value of such shares if Motorola owns at least 19% of the outstanding shares of Nextel Peru and Nextel Peru does not purchase ESMR infrastructure equipment from Motorola; provided that such ESMR infrastructure equipment is technologically competitive and is offered to Nextel Peru on competitive commercial terms.
PHILIPPINES. The Company owns, directly and indirectly, 38% of the outstanding shares of Nextel Philippines and has the right to designate three of 11 members of the board of directors and one of five members of the executive committee of the board. Pursuant to the Revised Corporate Structure (as defined below), the Company holds veto rights with respect to decisions involving a number of significant corporate actions including the following (collectively, the "Company Veto Rights"): (i) the acquisition of any entity; (ii) the merger, consolidation or sale of the company or any subsidiary or any disposition of a material amount of assets; (iii) the amendment of the articles of incorporation or by-laws; (iv) any amendment affecting the preemptive rights of stockholders; (v) appointment and removal of the President and Secretary; (vi) approval of or amendment to the annual business plan; (vii) entering other lines of business; (viii) issuances of stock; (ix) the approval of annual operating and capital budgets; (x) any borrowings in excess of $200,000; (xi) any transactions with affiliates in excess of $200,000; (xii) any dispositions of assets or making loans other than in the ordinary course of business; (xiii) appointment and removal of the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of Nextel Philippines; (xiv) election of members of the executive committee; (xv) filling of vacancies of the board of directors for causes other than removal or expiration of term; and (xvi) decisions of the executive committee of the board. The presence of the member nominated by the Company is required to
satisfy the quorum requirement for meetings of the executive committee. As discussed below, in connection with an administrative proceeding, Nextel Philippines later agreed not to implement the Company Veto Rights.
In April 1998, the Company entered into an agreement with the Philippines Shareholders, including the Gotesco Group, which held a 20% interest in Nextel Philippines. Pursuant to the Philippines Partner Agreements, among other things, (i) the Nextel Philippines corporate governance arrangements were restructured to give the Company increased minority shareholder rights (the "Revised Corporate Structure") and the Philippines Shareholders agreed to vote for the election of new, professional senior management of Nextel Philippines; (ii) the Company purchased existing shareholder loans of the Philippines Shareholders totaling approximately $19.6 million, which loans bear interest at 18% per annum and are convertible into equity of Nextel Philippines; (iii) the Company could, at its option, fund Nextel Philippines' capital needs for 1998 pursuant to loans that, at the option of the Company, may be converted into equity of Nextel Philippines; (iv) the Gotesco Group obtained the right to put its 20% interest to the Company for approximately $9.4 million beginning in January 1999 and the Company obtained the right to call the Gotesco Group's 20% interest for approximately $11.6 million, if the Gotesco Group did not exercise the Gotesco Put.
On June 26, 1998, the Company and the Gotesco Group entered into the Gotesco Put Acceleration Agreement, pursuant to which the exercise date of the Gotesco Put was accelerated from January 1999 to August 21, 1998. Pursuant to the Gotesco Put Acceleration Agreement, the Company agreed to pay the Gotesco Group $9,000,000 for the shares covered by the Gotesco Put in three installments: (i) $500,000 upon the delivery of irrevocable proxies covering the voting rights on the shares of Nextel Philippines owned by the Gotesco Group; (ii) $500,000 to the Gotesco Group upon the conclusion of the Nextel Philippines annual shareholder meeting, provided that the Gotesco Group's shares of Nextel Philippines were voted in favor of the corporate governance provisions of the Philippines Partner Agreements at such annual meeting; and (iii) $8,000,000 upon the transfer of the shares covered by the Gotesco Put to a qualified third-party purchaser in accordance with Philippines law. The first two installments were paid on June 26, 1998 and July 13, 1998, respectively. On August 21, 1998, Gamboa Holdings delivered the final installment of $8,000,000 to the Gotesco Group and the Gotesco Group delivered the shares covered by the Gotesco Put to Gamboa Holdings.
Funds used by Gamboa Holdings to consummate the acquisition of the Gotesco Group's shares of Nextel Philippines were derived from (a) equity contributions by shareholders of Gamboa Holdings and (b) proceeds of loans made by a lending institution to Gamboa Holdings and to ACCRAIN. The loans to Gamboa Holdings and to ACCRAIN are secured by cash collateral deposits of the Company in the amount of the loans and a pledge of Gamboa Holdings's shares of Nextel Philippines. As a result of Gamboa Holdings's acquisition of the Gotesco Group's shares of Nextel Philippines, the Company's aggregate equity interest in Nextel Philippines, which includes its direct and indirect holdings, increased from 30% to 38%.
ACCRAIN is a Philippine holding company with investments in a number of Philippines companies. Pursuant to an agreement, dated as of August 21, 1998 between an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and ACCRAIN (the "ACCRAIN Agreement"), ACCRAIN granted the Company a call right on ACCRAIN's shares in Gamboa Holdings, exercisable at anytime provided that the actual purchaser of the shares is the Company or a qualified purchaser in accordance with applicable Philippines foreign corporate ownership rules. Upon expiration of the ACCRAIN Agreement, ACCRAIN may put its shares in Gamboa Holdings to the Company or its qualified designee for approximately $8 million (the "ACCRAIN Put"). The ACCRAIN Agreement expires in August 1999 unless extended. The Company believes, and has been advised by Philippine counsel, that the above-described transactions with Gamboa Holdings comply with Philippines law, including applicable Philippines foreign corporate ownership rules. However, there can be no assurance that the above-described transactions will not be subject to legal challenge. In addition, the ability of the Company to call ACCRAIN's interest in Gamboa Holdings or to satisfy the ACCRAIN Put is subject to applicable Philippines foreign ownership rules.
Immediately prior to Nextel Philippines' 1998 annual shareholders meetings, the Philippines Securities and Exchange Commission (the "ROP SEC") issued a temporary restraining order (the "TRO") upon petition of one of the Philippines Shareholders and certain individual shareholders who hold shares in Nextel
Philippines in their capacity as members of the board of directors of Nextel Philippines representing the interests of Jetcom, Inc. and Foodcamp Industries and Marketing, Inc., two of the Philippine Shareholders (the "Petitioners"). The Petitioners requested the nullification of the amendments of the bylaws of Nextel Philippines contemplated by the corporate governance provisions of the Philippines Partner Agreements (the "Bylaw Amendments") and the TRO enjoined Nextel Philippines from implementing such Bylaw Amendments for a 72-hour period. The Petitioners further requested that a preliminary injunction be issued with the same effect pending a trial on the merits with respect to the validity of the Bylaw Amendments. On July 15, 1998, pursuant to the agreement of Nextel Philippines and the Petitioners and confirmed by the ROP SEC (a) the TRO was permitted to expire and (b) pending a trial on the merits as to the validity of the Bylaw Amendments (i) the Petitioners agreed to withdraw their petition for a preliminary injunction and (ii) Nextel Philippines agreed that the provisions of the Bylaw Amendments granting the Company Veto Rights would not be implemented.
On October 30, 1998, pursuant to the dispute resolution provisions of the Philippines Partner Agreements, the Company commenced arbitration proceedings in Hong Kong against the Petitioners, in which the Company asserts that such shareholders have failed to perform their respective obligations under the Philippines Partner Agreements. See Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings."
Although the Company believes that the provisions of the Philippines Partner Agreements are enforceable against each of the Philippines Shareholders and that the Company will eventually be successful in asserting its claims against Jetcom and Foodcamp regarding such agreements, there can be no assurance that the Company will prevail in any arbitration or legal action against Jetcom and Foodcamp or that such claims will be resolved in a timely manner. To the extent the Company is not successful in resolving these issues with Jetcom and Foodcamp, the Company may decide not to continue to fund Nextel Philippines. Any failure to resolve the legal issues among the shareholders of Nextel Philippines in a timely manner, and any resulting decision by the Company not to continue to provide additional funding to Nextel Philippines, would have a material adverse effect on Nextel Philippines' business, prospects, financial condition and results of operation. The Company does not believe that any of the Philippines Shareholders intend to fund Nextel Philippines in fiscal year 1999. Any lack of funding of Nextel Philippines, either from the Company, the Philippines Shareholders or other sources, would have a material adverse effect on Nextel Philippines' business, prospects, financial condition and results of operation, including its ability to meet its obligations, and, accordingly, on the value of the Company's investment in Nextel Philippines.
At its March 3, 1999 meeting, the board of directors of Nextel Philippines authorized Nextel Philippines to effect borrowings from the Company to finance (a) the cost of purchases of iDEN(R) infrastructure equipment and related services from Motorola; (b) the repayment of the principal amounts outstanding under the existing financing facility between Motorola Credit and Nextel Philippines; and (c) repayment of amounts to reimburse the Company for funds drawn by the Company under the Philippines Motorola Bridge Financing. The Company has agreed to provide such loans to Nextel Philippines (the "Philippines NI Facility") and will use proceeds drawn by the Company under the International Motorola Financing Facility to fund such loans. The aggregate amounts drawn under the Philippines NI Facility, together with the amounts of all other loans made by the shareholders of Nextel Philippines in 1999, cannot exceed $50 million. The Company estimates that the aggregate amounts drawn under the Philippines NI Facility will not exceed $30 million.
Nextel Philippines and the Company have entered into a technical services agreement pursuant to which the Company agreed to provide Nextel Philippines with engineering and other technical services, marketing assistance and system operation assistance on a cost reimbursement basis. The agreement has an initial term of three years, which expires on June 30, 1999. The Company and Nextel Philippines are negotiating an amendment to this agreement.
SHANGHAI. Under current Chinese law, foreign entities or individuals are prohibited from participating directly in the ownership and operation of telecommunications services. Because of this limitation, the Company's interest in the Shanghai GSM System is held through its 30% equity interest in a Chinese equity joint venture, Shanghai CCT McCaw. Shanghai CCT McCaw participates in the Shanghai GSM System
through the Unicom Agreement originally between Unicom and Shanghai Science Technology Investment Corp. Ltd. ("SSTIC"), its Chinese partner, and Unicom. SSTIC and CCT hold 19% and 51% equity interests in Shanghai CCT McCaw, respectively.
Shanghai CCT McCaw participates in the Shanghai GSM System through a profit-sharing arrangement under (i) the Shanghai Mobile Telecommunications GSM Project Cooperation Contract, dated April 21, 1995 (the "Unicom Agreement"), between SSTIC, one of the Company's partners in Shanghai CCT McCaw and (ii) the China Unicom Shanghai GSM Phase III Cooperation Agreement, dated March 29, 1997 (the "Phase III Agreement"), between Shanghai CCT McCaw and Unicom, which modified the arrangements under the Unicom Agreement. The Phase III Agreement requires Shanghai CCT McCaw to provide 60% of the funds required for the "Phase III Expansion", which is estimated by Shanghai CCT McCaw to be approximately $38 million. Pursuant to the Phase III Unicom Agreement Shanghai CCT McCaw has agreed to provide 60% of the funds required to expand the capacity of the Shanghai GSM System to provide service for an additional 100,000 subscribers. Shanghai CCT McCaw's share of the funds is estimated to be equal to approximately RMB$386.4 million (approximately $46 million). Pursuant to the Phase III Unicom Agreement, since September 15, 1997, Shanghai CCT McCaw has received 40.2% of the profits of the Shanghai GSM System. The Phase III Unicom Agreement expires January 15, 2012.
Pursuant to a joint venture agreement and other agreements entered into between the Company, CCT and SSTIC, membership of the nine person board of directors of Shanghai CCT McCaw is allocated as follows: (i) five directors are appointed by CCT Telecom, (ii) two directors appointed by SSTIC; and (iii) two directors appointed by the Company. Certain significant corporate actions require unanimous approval of the board of directors, including: (i) an amendment to the articles of association; (ii) changes in the ratio of the partners' capital contribution; and (iii) the merger or dissolution of Shanghai CCT McCaw. Certain other matters require the approval of at least five members of the board of directors (including approval of at least one director appointed by each shareholder). Those matters include the following: (i) allowing a third party to participate in the ownership of Shanghai CCT McCaw; (ii) certain changes to capitalization; (iii) borrowing money; (iv) paying dividends; (v) approving operating and capital budgets; (vi) changing the management structure; (vii) entering into transactions with affiliates; (viii) the purchase and sale of capital equipment; and (ix) any action not in the ordinary course of business of Shanghai CCT McCaw. None of the parties is permitted to sell its interest in Shanghai CCT McCaw without the consent of the other two parties.
In September 1998, Unicom advised the parties that pursuant to a new policy of the Chinese government, Unicom was no longer permitted to enter into any new contracts for its projects wherein financing was derived through investment structures involving indirect investment by foreign investors, including the structure utilized by Shanghai CCT McCaw with respect to the Shanghai GSM System. Further, Unicom advised the parties that it intended to finance Phase IV and any possible future expansions of the Shanghai GSM System on its own using financing derived independently of Shanghai CCT McCaw.
To date, the Company is not aware of any new rules or regulations that have been published or announced by the Chinese government with respect to the new policy cited by Unicom or with respect to the treatment of existing contracts such as those in existence between Shanghai CCT McCaw and Unicom under such new policy. Pursuant to various discussions between and among representatives of Shanghai CCT McCaw, the Company and Unicom, the Company believes that under the unpublished restrictions imposed by the Chinese government (a) no agreement with respect to Phase IV or subsequent phases will be entered into with Shanghai CCT McCaw or any other investor that derives funds directly or indirectly from foreign parties and (b) Shanghai CCT McCaw's existing contract with Unicom will remain in effect and enforceable. However, it is unclear what effect the new policy will have on the respective rights of Unicom and Shanghai CCT McCaw with respect to the Shanghai GSM System. The restrictions to be imposed on the Company pursuant to the new, unpublished regulations may have a material adverse effect on Shanghai CCT McCaw's interest in the Shanghai GSM System and the value of the Company's investment in Shanghai CCT McCaw.
In addition to its capital contribution, the Company was responsible for providing a $13.2 million to fund the Shanghai GSM System (the "Shanghai Loan"). As of December 31, 1998, the outstanding balance of the Shanghai Loan (after repayments of principal by Shanghai CCT McCaw) was $9.3 million.
In addition to its capital contribution, CCT agreed to provide to Shanghai CCT McCaw (i) a loan of $13.2 million (the "CCT Loan") and (ii) an additional loan of up to $3 million to cover cost overruns for Phase III Expansion required to be borne by Shanghai CCT McCaw (the "CCT Additional Loan"). CCT and Shanghai CCT McCaw have agreed that CCT may not accept any payment of principal or interest in respect of the CCT Loan or the CCT Additional Loan during any period when Shanghai CCT McCaw is in default under the Shanghai Loan.
EMPLOYEES
As of December 31, 1998, the Company, at the corporate level, employed 39 employees and the Operating Companies (excluding Clearnet and the Shanghai GSM System) had an aggregate of 2,853 employees. The Company is not a party to any collective bargaining agreements and the Company believes its relationship with its employees is good.
RISK FACTORS
Nextel International's business, financial condition and future prospects are subject to a number of risks and contingencies. The risks and contingencies that Nextel International regards currently as among the most significant are summarized below.
1. NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL HAS A SHORT OPERATING HISTORY, A HISTORY OF NET LOSSES AND EXPECTS LOSSES TO CONTINUE FOR SEVERAL YEARS.
Each of our operating subsidiaries and affiliates has been operating for a relatively short time. Additionally, if we acquire or commence operations in new markets, any of these new operations are likely to also have either a short or no operating history. Our prospects must therefore be considered in light of the risks, expenses, uncertainties and obstacles of establishing a new business in a rapidly developing industry such as wireless telecommunications. We have never been profitable and we have experienced negative cash flow since we began operating. Our accumulated deficit was about $340 million at December 31, 1998. We expect that losses will continue for the next several years as we build, expand and enhance our ESMR networks. We cannot assure you that we will become or remain profitable or achieve positive cash flow. If we cannot achieve profitability or positive cash flow, we may not be able to meet our debt service, working capital or other cash needs.
2. NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL WILL NEED SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNTS OF FINANCING OVER THE NEXT SEVERAL YEARS.
A) REASONS NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL WILL NEED FINANCING.
We anticipate that we will need substantial amounts of financing over the next several years for the following:
- capital expenditures to build, expand and enhance our ESMR networks;
- funding operating losses relating to the wireless communications businesses conducted by our operating subsidiaries and affiliates;
- debt service requirements; and
- other general corporate purposes.
In addition to the above, we have a number of contingent capital requirements that will become payable over the next several years. These contingent capital requirements include the following:
- payments to the Telcom Group (the minority shareholders in Nextel Brazil) if the Telcom Group exercises its right to require Nextel Brazil to redeem their interest in Nextel Brazil at fair market value between October 31, 2001 and November 1, 2003;
- payments to Motorola International if Motorola International exercises its right to require Nextel Peru to purchase the interests of Motorola International and its affiliates in Nextel Peru at fair market value under certain circumstances; and
- payments to ACCRAIN if ACCRAIN exercises its right to require us or our qualified assignee to purchase its interest in Gamboa Holdings for about $8 million under certain circumstances.
B) AMOUNTS AVAILABLE TO NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL UNDER ITS EXISTING FINANCING AGREEMENTS ARE INSUFFICIENT TO MEET ITS LONG-TERM CASH NEEDS.
Based on our assessment of the business activity and related cash needs of our operating subsidiaries and affiliates for 1999, we believe that we currently have adequate funding to continue our operations only into the latter half of 1999. Our financing needs for 1999 are greater than our funding available under our existing financing arrangements. We will, therefore, have to raise substantial amounts of additional funds, in the form of public or private debt or equity, to meet our cash needs for the second half of 1999 and into the future. We may seek to obtain financing from various sources, including additional vendor financing provided by equipment suppliers such Motorola, project financing from commercial banks and bank lines of credit. We are exploring a number of these alternative sources of funds. If we issue debt, our leverage and debt service obligations will increase. Moreover, our ability to access additional funds may be limited by the terms of our existing financing agreements, including:
- covenants that restrict how much additional borrowing we can incur;
- covenants that restrict our ability to grant liens on the assets of our operating subsidiaries and affiliates; and
- covenants that restrict the ability of our operating subsidiaries and affiliates to pay dividends to us.
Our ability to raise additional funds may also be affected by:
- general market conditions in the U.S. and in our international markets that may have an adverse effect on the availability or cost of capital;
- the recent downturn in the economies of Latin American and Asia, which may make lenders and investors less likely to lend to or invest in Nextel International and/or our relevant operating subsidiaries and affiliates;
- our high level of indebtedness, which may affect our attractiveness as a debt or an equity investment vehicle; and
- the market's perception of our performance in each of our markets.
Other than our existing financing arrangements, we have no legally binding commitments or agreements with any third parties to obtain additional debt or equity financing. Nextel Communications, our parent company, is not obligated to provide any additional funds to us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional funds in the amounts or at the times that we may require it. Further, if we do raise any additional funds, we cannot assure you that it will be on acceptable terms. If we are unable to raise additional funds or to obtain these funds on acceptable terms and in a timely manner, we will be required to reduce the scope of the build-out, expansion and enhancement of our ESMR networks and to curtail our operations significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete and on our financial condition in general.
3. NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL'S PROSPECTS DEPEND ON GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES.
In each market in which we operate, one or more regulatory entities regulate the licensing, construction, acquisition, ownership and operation of our wireless communications systems. Additionally, certain other aspects of our wireless communications system operations, including the rates we charge our subscribers and the resale of our wireless communications services, may be governed by public utility regulations. Further, in certain of the countries in which we conduct business, local statutes and regulations impose foreign ownership limitations for telecommunications companies. Changes in the current telecommunications statutes or regulations in any one or more of these countries could adversely affect our business.
Wireless communications licenses and spectrum allocations are subject to ongoing review and, in some cases, to modification or early termination for failure to comply with applicable regulations. Most of our wireless communications licenses have fixed terms and are not renewed automatically. In cases where license terms are fixed, we cannot assure you that our licenses will be renewed, or if renewed, that renewal will be on acceptable economic terms.
Because of the uncertainty as to the interpretation of regulations in certain countries in which we operate, we cannot assure you that we will always be able to provide the services we have planned in each market. It is possible that in the future we may be prohibited from providing services we have planned in certain markets, particularly some of the services we have planned on our ESMR networks. This could make it more difficult for us to compete in those markets. We have provided a detailed description of the regulatory environment for each of the countries in which our operating subsidiaries and affiliates conduct business under the "Regulatory and Legal Overview" discussion for each operating subsidiary or affiliate under "The Company's Business -- Operations and Investments."
Our licensee companies must comply with the terms of their licenses and certain regulatory requirements, such as installation deadlines and minimum loading requirement. We cannot assure you that we will always be able to comply with these requirements. If our licensee companies do not comply with these requirements, we could lose the applicable licenses. We are currently out of compliance with certain installation deadlines and minimum loading requirements with respect to certain channels located in Brazil in certain cities outside of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro and in Argentina in certain cities outside of Buenos Aires and Rosario. In the case of Brazil, Nextel Brazil has proposed an installation and loading plan to Anatel. We cannot assure you that Anatel will approve our proposed plan. If we do not obtain Anatel's approval for our installation and loading plan, or waivers, extensions or similar relief from the relevant deadlines from the Argentina CNC with respect to Argentina, the channels for which we are out of compliance may be revoked.
4. NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL'S FUTURE PERFORMANCE DEPENDS ON ITS ABILITY TO COMPETE IN THE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS INDUSTRY.
Our success will depend on our ability to compete effectively with other communications services providers, including landline telephone companies and other wireless communications companies, in the markets in which we operate.
A) SOME OF NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL'S COMPETITORS ARE FINANCIALLY STRONGER THAN NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL.
Many competitors in our markets are well-established companies with substantially greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, better name recognition and larger coverage areas than our operating subsidiaries and affiliates. Because of their financial resources, these competitors may be able to offer services to customers at prices that are below the prices that our operating subsidiaries and affiliates can offer for comparable services. As a result, our ability to compete based on the price of our service offerings will be limited. In addition, we anticipate that we will face future market pressure to reduce the prices we charge for our products and services over the next few years because of increased competition in our markets.
B) NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL'S COVERAGE IS NOT AS EXTENSIVE AS THOSE OF OTHER WIRELESS SERVICE PROVIDERS IN OUR MARKETS.
Many of the cellular and PCS providers in our markets have entered into roaming agreements with each other, which permits these providers to offer coverage to their subscribers in each other's markets. Because the iDEN(TM) technology that we deploy in our markets is not compatible with other wireless technologies such as digital cellular or PCS technologies, our customers will not be able to roam on cellular or PCS systems. We, therefore, will not be able to provide coverage to our subscribers outside of our current ESMR markets until:
- we build out additional ESMR markets;
- other SMR providers build out markets outside of our coverage area using iDEN(R) technology and we enter into roaming agreements with these providers; or
- a multi-band or multi-mode phone (ESMR and cellular or PCS frequencies) becomes available for use on our ESMR network and we enter into roaming agreements with other wireless communications providers.
Because of the above, we cannot assure you that we will able to compete effectively with cellular and PCS providers in our markets. We have provided more a detailed description of the competitive factors affecting each of our operating subsidiaries and affiliates under the "Competition" section for each operating subsidiary or affiliate under "The Company's Business -- Operations and Investments."
C) NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL MUST KEEP PACE WITH RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES.
The digital technology deployed on our ESMR networks could become obsolete. We rely on digital technology that is not compatible with, and competes with, other forms of digital and non-digital voice communication technology. Competition among these differing technologies can:
- segment the user markets, thereby reducing demand for specific technologies, including the technology that we use;
- reduce the resources devoted by third-party suppliers, including Motorola, which supplies all of our current ESMR technology, to developing or improving the technology for our networks; and
- adversely affect market acceptance of our service offerings.
We cannot assure you that the digital technology we use on our ESMR networks will successfully compete with the other forms of digital and non-digital voice communication systems. Further, new digital or non-digital voice communication transmission technology may develop that will cause our existing systems and technology to be obsolete or otherwise impair market acceptance of our service offerings.
5. NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL OPERATES IN FOREIGN MARKETS AND THIS PRESENTS CERTAIN RISKS.
A) NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL FACES POLITICAL RISKS IN ITS MARKETS.
Most of our markets are considered to be "emerging markets." Although political, economic and social conditions differ in each country in which we currently operate, developments in one country may affect us as a whole, including our access to international capital markets. In Peru, for example, there was significant terrorist activity in the 1980s and the early 1990s. During that time anti-government groups escalated violence against the government, the private sector and Peruvian residents. Although the government of Peru has made progress in suppressing terrorist activity since 1990, incidents of terrorist activity continue to occur, including the hostage incident at the residence of the Japanese Ambassador to Peru in 1997. Terrorist activity could recur, and if it does, it may have a material adverse effect on the operations of Nextel Peru. We have attempted to limit our exposure in Peru by obtaining political risk insurance for this country.
B) WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES COMPANIES HAVE A LIMITED HISTORY IN NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL'S MARKETS.
The success of our business plan and strategies is subject to factors that are beyond our control and impossible to predict due, in part, to the limited history of wireless communications services in our existing and targeted markets. Consequently, we face many uncertainties in our markets, including:
- the size of the markets for wireless communications services;
- the penetration rates of these markets;
- the ability of potential subscribers to pay subscription and other fees;
- the extent and nature of the competitive environment in these markets; and
- the immediate and long-term commercial viability of wireless communications services in these markets.
C) NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL IS SUBJECT TO FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES.
Substantially all of our revenues are denominated in non-U.S. currencies, although a significant portion of our capital and operating expenditures, including imported network and subscriber handset equipment, and substantially all of our outstanding debt, are denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on our earnings or assets. For example, the recent economic turmoil in Asia has resulted in a significant devaluation of the currencies in several countries in Asia and has caused fluctuations in the currencies of other emerging countries, particularly in Latin America. Further, the recent currency devaluation in Brazil has caused us to record a charge against earnings and a negative adjustment to the carrying value of our assets.
Any other devaluation of local currencies in the countries in which our operating subsidiaries or affiliates conduct business will result in increased costs for imported goods and services, and may, as a result, decrease demand for our products and services in the affected markets. If our operating subsidiaries or affiliates distribute dividends in local currencies in the future, the amount of cash we receive will be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates and currency devaluations. In addition, certain of the countries in which we have operations do or may restrict the expatriation or conversion of currency. Although we routinely assess our foreign currency exposure, we have not entered into any hedging transactions.
D) NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL IS SUBJECT TO OTHER FLUCTUATIONS IN THE LOCAL ECONOMIES IN WHICH IT OPERATES.
Our operations depend on the economies of the markets in which we operate. These markets are in countries with economies in various stages of development or structural reform, some of which are subject to rapid fluctuations in terms of:
- consumer prices;
- employment levels;
- gross domestic product;
- interest rates; and
- inflation rates.
If such fluctuations have an effect on the ability of customers to pay for our products and services, our business may be adversely affected. For example, several countries in Asia, including the Philippines, have experienced significant economic turmoil during the past year. In addition, these countries have experienced a number of bank failures and consolidations. The economic conditions in Asia have also affected other emerging markets, particularly those in Latin America. Because of the foregoing, our operating subsidiaries and affiliates may experience lower demand for their products and services and a decline in the growth of their customer base and in revenues derived from customers in their markets.
In addition, as a result of the foregoing, the other shareholders in our operating subsidiaries may have difficulty in funding their capital contribution requirements. We then may be required to assume and satisfy the funding obligations of these shareholders or restrict the conduct of business of the affected operating subsidiary or affiliate.
Certain of our operating subsidiaries and affiliates conduct business in countries where the rate of inflation is significantly higher than in the United States. We cannot assure you that any significant increase in the rate of inflation in any of these countries could be offset, in whole or in part, by corresponding price increases by our operating subsidiaries and affiliates, even over the long term.
Many of the countries in which we operate do not have established credit bureaus. This makes it more difficult to ascertain the creditworthiness of potential customers. Accordingly, we may experience a higher level of bad debt expense than similar companies in the U.S. For example, our bad debt expense as a percentage of revenues in Brazil and Argentina has been significantly higher than in our other markets and in the U.S. wireless communications industry in general.
E) NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL PAYS SIGNIFICANT IMPORT DUTIES ON ITS NETWORK EQUIPMENT AND HANDSETS.
Our operations are highly dependent upon the successful and cost-efficient importation of network equipment and handsets from North America and, to a lesser extent, from Europe and Japan. In the countries in which we operate, network equipment and handsets are subject to significant import duties and other taxes that can be as high as 50%. Although we believe there is a trend away from increased import duties, any significant increase in the future could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
F) NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL IS SUBJECT TO INTERNATIONAL TAXES IN THE COUNTRIES IN WHICH IT OPERATES.
Distributions of earnings and other payments, including interest, received from our operating subsidiaries and affiliates may be subject to withholding taxes imposed by the countries in which these entities operate. Any such taxes will reduce the amount of after-tax cash we can receive from our operating subsidiaries and affiliates.
In general, a U.S. corporation may claim a foreign tax credit against its federal income tax expense for foreign withholding taxes and for foreign income taxes paid directly by foreign corporate entities in which the company owns 10% or more of the voting stock. Our ability to claim foreign tax credits and to utilize net foreign losses is, however, subject to numerous limitations, and we may incur incremental tax costs as a result of these limitations or because we do not have U.S. federal taxable income.
We may also be required to include in our income for U.S. federal income tax purposes our proportionate share of certain earnings of our foreign corporate subsidiaries that are classified as "controlled foreign corporations" without regard to whether distributions have been actually received from these subsidiaries.
G) NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL HAS ENTERED INTO A NUMBER OF AGREEMENTS THAT ARE SUBJECT TO ENFORCEMENT IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
A number of the agreements that we enter into with our operating subsidiaries and affiliates are governed by the laws of, and are subject to dispute resolution in the courts of or through arbitration proceedings in, the country or region in which the operation is located. We cannot accurately predict whether such forums will provide us with an effective and efficient means of resolving disputes that may arise. Even if we are able to obtain a satisfactory decision through arbitration or a court proceeding, we could have difficulty enforcing any award or judgment on a timely basis. Our ability to obtain or enforce relief in the United States is also uncertain.
H) NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL IS SUBJECT TO THE FOREIGN CORRUPT PRACTICES ACT.
The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA") generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. Although we have taken precautions to comply with the FCPA, we cannot assure you that such precautions will protect us
against liability under the FCPA, particularly as a result of actions that may have been taken in the past or may be taken in the future by our agents and other intermediaries. In particular, we may be held responsible for actions taken by our local representatives or by other shareholders in an operating subsidiary even though we have no ability to control them. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA could affect us adversely.
6. NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL'S SUCCESS DEPENDS ON ITS ABILITY TO MANAGE THE EXPANSION OF ITS OPERATIONS.
Since our inception, we have experienced rapid growth. We intend to continue to grow through further expansion and enhancement of our existing operations, and may grow through acquisitions and joint ventures and through the establishment of new operations. Our future success and our ability to meet our debt service obligations depend on the expansion of our operations and the development of a large subscriber base on a timely basis.
A) CHALLENGES ASSOCIATED WITH OUR ESMR NETWORK CONSTRUCTION AND EXPANSION PROJECTS.
Our ESMR network construction and expansion projects will be subject to numerous factors, any of which could require substantial changes to proposed plans or otherwise alter our current time frames or budgets. These factors include:
- securing the necessary radio spectrum licenses and adhering to regulatory requirements relating to the licenses;
- locating suitable sites for communications sites or towers, obtaining any required zoning variances or other governmental or local regulatory approvals, and negotiating acceptable purchase, lease, joint venture or other agreements;
- negotiating favorable interconnection agreements with local phone companies;
- delays that may be caused by frequency cross-interference with other radio spectrum users, such as television stations; and
- risks typically associated with any construction project, including possible shortages of equipment or skilled labor, engineering or environmental problems, work stoppages, weather interference and unanticipated cost increases.
We cannot assure you that our currently planned ESMR network construction and expansion activities will be completed successfully or in a or timely way.
B) CHALLENGES ASSOCIATED WITH SELLING AND MARKETING OUR ESMR SERVICES.
Once our ESMR network operations are in place in a particular market, the development of a significant subscriber base depends on the success of our sales and marketing efforts and the receptiveness of the marketplace to our services. In most of our markets, we have limited experience in marketing our wireless communications services and in tailoring our sales and marketing to local conditions. Additionally, in certain markets, there are restrictions on the type of customers to whom our operating subsidiaries or affiliates may offer their ESMR services. We cannot assure you that our sales and marketing teams will be able to establish a large subscriber base in our markets successfully. In most of our markets, we rely in part on the efforts of independent dealers and distributors to market our services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to establish and maintain satisfactory relationships with enough independent dealers or distributors or that this will be a cost-effective way of acquiring subscribers.
C) CHALLENGES ASSOCIATED WITH MANAGING OUR EXPANDED OPERATIONS.
During 1998, we accomplished commercial launches of service in six markets in 1998. As a result of our aggressive construction and expansion plans, we face significant challenges in managing our expanded operations. We must hire and train a significant number of key personnel to manage our growth, and our construction and expansion plans will place substantial burdens on our current management resources, information systems and financial controls. In addition, we expect significant challenges in integrating any newly acquired businesses with our existing operations. In order to assist in the management of our expanded
operations, we created two regional groups, one for Latin America and one for Asia/Pacific to work with the management teams of our operating subsidiaries and affiliates. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage the growth of our expanded operations effectively. Any failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
7. NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL RELIES PRINCIPALLY ON ONE SUPPLIER TO IMPLEMENT ITS ESMR NETWORKS.
Motorola is currently our sole source for the iDEN(R) network and subscriber handset equipment used throughout our ESMR markets. We expect to rely on Motorola for the manufacture of a substantial portion of the equipment necessary to construct our ESMR networks and for the manufacture of handset equipment for the next several years. Motorola's failure to deliver necessary technology improvements and enhancements and iDEN(R) system network and subscriber equipment on a timely, cost-effective basis would have an adverse effect on our business. We expect that for the next few years, Motorola will be the only manufacturer of subscriber equipment that is compatible with our ESMR networks. The equipment purchase agreements between Nextel Communications and Motorola provide for the licensing by Motorola of interfaces relating to network and subscriber equipment and of additional manufacturers for subscriber equipment. Currently, however, there are no arrangements in effect with any additional manufacturers to supply alternative sources for either iDEN(R) system network or subscriber equipment. Although we believe that we have or will be able to secure contractual rights to procure sufficient equipment for our anticipated requirements, we cannot assure you that such equipment will continue to be available to us or that additional equipment would be available if demand for our services exceeds our current projections. A substantial portion of the network and subscriber handset equipment required by our operating subsidiaries is manufactured in North America. Accordingly, in addition to any potential equipment manufacturing problems, delays or disruptions affecting our suppliers, we could also be adversely affected by any inability to ship or delays in shipping equipment from its place of manufacture to the overseas market where it is required.
8. NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL IS CONTROLLED BY AND DEPENDENT ON NEXTEL COMMUNICATIONS.
A) NEXTEL COMMUNICATIONS AND ITS SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS CONTROL NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL.
We are an indirect, substantially wholly owned subsidiary of Nextel Communications. Nextel Communications, therefore, has the power to elect all of the members of our board of directors. Of the seven directors that comprise our board of directors, five are also directors and/or officers of Nextel Communications. Although Nextel Communications has provided us with a substantial amount of financing in the past, it is under no obligation to do so in the future.
Based on the ownership information relating to Nextel Communications as of December 31, 1998, entities controlled by Craig O. McCaw beneficially owned about 20% of the outstanding Nextel Communications stock. In addition, Motorola beneficially owned about 20% of the outstanding Nextel Communications stock.
Digital Radio L.L.C., which is one of the entities controlled by Mr. McCaw, may designate at least one fourth of the board of directors of Nextel Communications. In addition, Digital Radio may select, from its representatives on the board of directors, a majority of the operations committee of Nextel Communications's board of directors, which has significant authority relating to Nextel Communications's business strategy, budgets, financing arrangements and in the nomination and oversight of certain executive officers. As a result, Digital Radio may exert significant influence over Nextel Communications's affairs, and thereby our affairs. Motorola is entitled to nominate two directors to the board of directors of Nextel Communications.
B) NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL'S INTEREST MAY CONFLICT WITH THOSE OF NEXTEL COMMUNICATIONS OR ITS SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS.
Nextel Communications, and directors and officers of Nextel Communications who are also members of our board of directors, are in positions that may result in conflicts of interests with respect to transactions in which we are involved. We have entered into a noncompetition agreement with Nextel Communication. Under that agreement, Nextel Communications has agreed that neither it nor its controlled affiliates may, for
a period of time, participate in other two-way terrestrial based mobile wireless communications systems in any region other than the United States unless these opportunities have first been presented to and rejected by Nextel International. Nextel International has agreed that neither it nor any of its controlled affiliates will participate in the ownership or management of any wireless communications service business in the United States or Canada other than with respect to its interest in Clearnet without the consent of Nextel Communications.
Digital Radio, Mr. McCaw and their affiliates have and, subject to the terms of agreements between Digital Radio and Nextel Communications, may have an investment or interest in entities that provide wireless telecommunications services that could potentially compete with Nextel Communications and with us. Under the agreements, Mr. McCaw, Digital Radio and their controlled affiliates may not, for a period of time, participate in other two-way terrestrial-based mobile wireless communications systems in the region that includes any part of North America or South America unless these opportunities have first been presented to and rejected by Nextel Communications.
Motorola and its affiliates engage in wireless communications businesses, and may in the future engage in additional businesses, that do or may compete with some or all of the services we offer. Although we believe that our relationship with Motorola reflects the realities of purchasing and obtaining financing from a competitor, we cannot assure you that the potential conflict of interest will not adversely affect us in the future. In addition, Motorola is a significant stockholder of Nextel Communications, and indirectly of Nextel International and a significant shareholder in our operating subsidiaries or affiliates in Brazil, Peru and Japan, which creates potential conflicts of interest, particularly with regard to significant transactions.
9. NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL DEPENDS ON ITS SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM.
Our success and our growth strategy depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain key management, marketing, finance and operating personnel, both at the Nextel International and operating subsidiary or affiliate levels. In many of the countries in which our operating subsidiaries or affiliates conduct business, experienced management and other highly skilled personnel are in great demand. We cannot assure you that we will continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary to implement our business plan and strategies. In addition, the unexpected loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could adversely affect us. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any members of our senior management team.
10. NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL'S PROSPECTS MAY BE AFFECTED BY CONCERNS ABOUT HEALTH RISK.
Mobile communications devices have been alleged to pose health risks due to radio frequency emissions from these devices. Studies performed by wireless telephone equipment manufacturers have investigated these allegations, and a major industry trade association and governmental agencies in the United States have stated publicly that the use of these phones poses no undue health risk. The actual or perceived risk of mobile communications devices could adversely affect us through a reduced subscriber growth rate, a reduction in subscribers, reduced network usage per subscriber or through reduced financing available to the mobile communications industry.
11. NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL'S OPERATIONS MAY BE DISRUPTED DUE TO YEAR 2000 ISSUES.
We are subject to risks associated with the "Year 2000" issue. We have substantially completed our assessment phase with respect to the Year 2000 readiness status of our own internal systems and processes and recently commenced the remediation and testing phase for some aspects of our business. We have not yet developed contingency plans for resolving issues that may be identified and for which remediation is not possible on a timely or cost-effective basis. We do not currently anticipate that our own assessment, remediation and testing process of financial and operating systems or of embedded technology in our systems will exceed $5 million or will require that we defer or abandon any material projects, or objectives relating to our operations (excluding parallel Year 2000 issues readiness expenses incurred by Nextel Communications
relating to common or shared systems or components, for which we may be required to provide appropriate reimbursement to Nextel Communications).
We remain subject to risks associated with the Year 2000 readiness problems of third parties, especially providers of products and services that are critical to our ability to conduct our business operations, including other telephone service providers with which our service connects. We are also aware that governmental authorities and third parties in the markets where our subsidiaries and our affiliates operate with whom we may have material business relationships may not be at the same level of awareness, or assessment or remediation of their potential Year 2000 readiness issues as are their United States counterparts. If any of these third parties or we are unable to resolve material Year 2000 readiness issues on a timely or cost-effective basis, there would be an adverse effect on us.
12. NEXTEL INTERNATIONAL'S FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS ARE SUBJECT TO A VARIETY OF FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM CURRENT BELIEFS.
A) "SAFE HARBOR" STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995:
A number of the statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not historical or current facts, but deal with potential future circumstances and developments. Those statements are qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding expectations generally, and also may materially differ from our actual experience involving any one or more of these matters and subject areas. We have attempted to identify, in context, some of the factors that we currently believe may cause actual experience and results to differ from our current expectations regarding the relevant matter or subject area. The operation and results of our wireless communications business also may be subject to the effect of other risks and uncertainties in addition to the relevant qualifying factors identified elsewhere in the foregoing "Risk Factors" section, including, but not limited to:
- general economic conditions in Latin America and Asia and in the market segments that we are targeting for our services;
- the effect of the Brazilian currency devaluation on the economies of the other Latin American economies in which we operate;
- the accuracy of our estimates of the impact of the weakening of currencies in Brazil and the rest of Latin America in general as compared to the U.S. dollar;
- substantive terms of any international financial aid package that may be made available to any country in which our operating companies conduct business, including Brazil;
- future legislation or regulation by governmental entities in the markets in which our operating subsidiaries and affiliates conduct their business;
- the availability of adequate quantities of system network and subscriber equipment and components to meet our business plans and anticipated customer demand;
- the impact of the economic conditions in Latin America and Asia and other market conditions on the volatility and availability of equity and debt financing in domestic and international capital markets and our access to sufficient debt and equity financing to meet our operating and financial needs;
- the successful deployment and performance of Motorola's iDEN(R) technology on our wireless communications networks;
- the ability to achieve market penetration and average subscriber revenue level sufficient to provide financial viability to our wireless communications business;
- our ability to accomplish required scale-up of our billing, customer care and similar administrative support timely and successfully to keep pace with anticipated customer growth and increased system usage;
- the quality and price of similar or comparable wireless communications services offered or to be offered by our competitors, including providers of cellular and PCS, other wireless communications services or telecommunications generally;
- satisfactory identification and completion of Year 2000 software and hardware revisions by us and by the entities with which we do business; and
- other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in our reports filed with the Commission.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Company currently leases 6,559 square feet for its principal executive and administrative offices in Seattle, Washington. The Seattle lease is a five-year lease expiring in December 2000 and payments thereunder equal approximately $130,000 per year. The Company also leases 394 square feet of office space for its Latin America regional office in Miami, Florida. The Miami lease is a six-month lease expiring on March 31, 1999, and payments thereunder equal approximately $27,600 per year. In addition, the Company's subsidiaries have leases for office space and transmission sites in each of the countries where the Operating Companies conduct business.
On March 17, 1999, the Company announced the move of its principal executive and administrative offices from Seattle, Washington to Reston, Virginia. The Company's new principal and executive offices will be at the same location as Nextel Communications's new principal executive and administrative offices. The Company plans to complete its move to its new offices by the end of the third quarter of 1999, but plans to retain its office space in Seattle, Washington until the expiration of its lease in December 2000 for its Asia/ Pacific regional office and other administrative services.
Each of the Operating Companies leases antenna sites for the conduct of its ESMR business. Most of such leases are for terms of five years or less, with options to renew. As of December 31, 1998, the Operating Companies (excluding Clearnet and the Shanghai GSM System) had approximately 584 constructed sites at leased locations for their ESMR business, as shown below:
ITEM 3.