ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
As of November 30, 2020, INDUS owned thirty industrial/logistics buildings and eleven office/flex buildings aggregating approximately 4.6 million square feet (91.5% of which was industrial/logistics properties and 8.5% of which was office/flex properties) in addition to 58 acres of entitled industrial land under development and approximately 3,370 acres of additional undeveloped land. As of November 30, 2020, approximately 94.3% of INDUS’s approximately 4.2 million industrial/logistics square footage was leased and 71.3% of INDUS’s approximately 0.4 million office/flex square footage was leased.
INDUS’s building portfolio is located in the north submarket of Hartford, Connecticut, the Lehigh Valley of Pennsylvania, the greater Charlotte, North Carolina area and Orlando, Florida. INDUS expects to continue to acquire and develop properties that are consistent with its core industrial/logistics focused strategy in these markets, as well as a select number of additional high-growth, supply constrained markets. INDUS targets properties that are in close proximity to transportation infrastructure (highways, airports, railways and seaports) and can accommodate single and multiple tenants in flexible layouts. INDUS expects that most of such potential future acquisitions of land and buildings will be located outside of the Hartford area.
Real estate acquisitions may or may not occur based on many factors, including real estate pricing. INDUS may commence speculative construction projects on its undeveloped land that is either currently owned or acquired in the future if the Company believes market conditions are favorable for development. INDUS also may construct build-to-suit facilities on its undeveloped land if lease terms and building designs are favorable and market appropriate to align with INDUS’s strategy of owning buildings, not leases.
Developed Properties
The following tables present INDUS’s industrial/logistics buildings and its office/flex buildings aggregating approximately 4.2 million square feet and approximately 0.4 million square feet, respectively. A listing of those holdings and leasing data as of November 30, 2020 and November 30, 2019 is as follows:
(1) Acquired in February 2020 and March 2020.
* Included as collateral under one of INDUS’s nonrecourse mortgage loans as of January 31, 2021.
** Included as collateral under INDUS’s revolving line of credit with Webster Bank as of January 31, 2021.
(1) 55 Griffin Road South is a 40,330 square foot office/flex building built in 1985 that was fully vacant in both years and was sold in November 2020. Prior to its sale, 55 Griffin Road South was included as collateral under INDUS’s revolving line of credit with Webster Bank. Subsequent to that sale, 170 Sunport Lane (see above) was added as a replacement property under the revolving line of credit.
* Included as collateral under one of INDUS’s nonrecourse mortgage loans as of January 31, 2021.
** Included as collateral under INDUS’s revolving line of credit with Webster Bank as of January 31, 2021.
Leasing Activity in Developed Properties
In fiscal 2020, the net effect of leasing transactions was an increase of approximately 108,000 square feet of industrial/logistics space under lease as of November 30, 2020, as compared to November 30, 2019, and a decrease of approximately 23,000 square feet of office/flex space under lease as of November 30, 2020, as compared to November 30, 2019. In addition, INDUS acquired two industrial/logistics properties in Orlando, 3320 Maggie Boulevard and 170 Sunport Lane, totaling approximately 177,000 square feet that were 71.3% leased during the year, adding an additional approximately 126,000 square feet to INDUS’s leased square footage. In fiscal 2020, INDUS’s total office/flex square footage was reduced when the Company sold a vacant, approximately 40,000 square foot office/flex building.
In the fiscal year ended November 30, 2019 (“fiscal 2019”), the net effect of leasing transactions was an increase of approximately 269,000 square feet of industrial/logistics space under lease as of November 30, 2019, as compared to November 30, 2018, and a decrease of approximately 10,000 square feet of office/flex space under lease as of November 30, 2019, as compared to November 30, 2018. In fiscal 2019, in addition to the acquisition of 7466 Chancellor Drive in Orlando, INDUS completed and placed in service 160 International Drive (“160 International”) and 180 International Drive (“180 International”), industrial/logistics buildings of approximately 147,000 square feet and approximately 136,000 square feet, respectively, on a land parcel in Concord, North Carolina in the greater Charlotte area, that was purchased in fiscal 2018. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, INDUS entered into two leases aggregating approximately 105,000 square feet in 160 International. The Company’s construction of 160 International and 180 International was completed in the 2019 fourth quarter.
Summary of Industrial/Logistics Leasing Trends by Market
INDUS’s operating results depend primarily upon rental income, which is impacted by the results of leasing activity, tenant retention and occupancy in its portfolio. During fiscal 2020, INDUS had an industrial/logistics tenant retention rate of 79%, as measured by the number of tenants who signed renewals during the year divided by the total number of tenants who either renewed or vacated their leased space over the course of the year. Excluding leases with terms of less than 12 months and leases for first generation space, INDUS renewed a total of eleven industrial/logistics leases and signed five new industrial/logistics leases in fiscal 2020, with weighted average rent growth from leasing activity (“Weighted Average Rent Growth”)1 on a cash basis of 2.6% and Weighted Average Rent Growth from leasing activity on a straight-line basis of 15.0%.
As of November 30, 2020, INDUS had 49 unique industrial/logistics leases in its portfolio and its average lease size was 80,947 square feet. A summary of INDUS’s industrial/logistics square footage as of November 30, 2020 and leases in INDUS’s industrial/logistics buildings scheduled to expire during the next three fiscal years by market are as follows:
Hartford, CT (Market presence since Company inception)
Lehigh Valley, PA (Market entered in 2010)
1 Weighted average rent growth reflects the percentage change of annualized rental rates between the previous leases and the current leases. The rental rate change on a straight-line basis represents average annual base rental payments on a straight-line basis for the term of each lease including free rent periods. Cash basis rent growth represents the change in starting rental rates per the lease agreement on new and renewed leases signed during the period, as compared to the previous ending rental rates for that same space. The cash rent growth calculation excludes free rent periods. The change in rental rate calculations excludes leases for first generation space on properties acquired or developed by INDUS.
Charlotte, NC (Market entered in 2017)
Orlando, FL (Market entered in 2019)
* Less than 1%.
Summary of Office/Flex Leasing Trends by Market
INDUS expects that its office/flex space will continue to become a smaller percentage of its total square footage as it focuses on the growth of its industrial/logistics building portfolio. A summary of INDUS’s office/flex square footage as of November 30, 2020 and leases in INDUS’s office/flex buildings scheduled to expire during the next three fiscal years are as follows:
Hartford, CT (Owned since Company inception)
* Less than 1%.
Developments and Acquisitions
As of November 30, 2020, INDUS owned a total of 58 acres of land for development in the Lehigh Valley (the “Lehigh Valley Land”) and in Charlotte (the “Charlotte Land”).
INDUS acquired the Lehigh Valley Land totaling approximately 14 acres for approximately $1.9 million in fiscal 2019 using a portion of the proceeds from the sale of approximately 280 acres of undeveloped land in Simsbury, Connecticut (the “Simsbury Land Sale”) to complete a 1031 Like-Kind Exchange. In fiscal 2020, the Company began construction of an approximately 103,000 square foot industrial/logistics building on the Lehigh Valley Land, which it expects to deliver in the fourth quarter of 2021.
INDUS acquired the Charlotte Land totaling approximately 44 acres in fiscal 2019 using a portion of the proceeds from the Simsbury Land Sale to complete a 1031 Like-Kind Exchange. In fiscal 2020, the Company obtained the entitlements to construct three industrial/logistics buildings aggregating approximately 520,000 square feet on the Charlotte Land. Subsequent to November 30, 2020, the Company entered into a preliminary agreement with a leading e-commerce company for the re-design of the Charlotte Land to accommodate the build-to-suit of a last-mile industrial/logistics facility to be leased by such company (the “Charlotte Build-to-Suit”). The Charlotte Build-to-Suit would utilize all of the development potential of the Charlotte Land and includes an approximately 142,000 square foot building. The Company estimates that the total development cost for the Charlotte Build-to-Suit will be between $35-$45 million (including the land cost) and that the tenant would enter into a fifteen-year lease for the property at a rental rate calculated as a percentage of the total project cost. The Company anticipates obtaining construction financing to fund a portion of the development costs for the Charlotte Build-to-Suit. Through January 31, 2021, INDUS has expended approximately $0.5 million for the re-design and development of the Charlotte Land for the Charlotte Build-to-Suit. The prospective tenant has indemnified the Company for those expenditures. It is possible that development of the Charlotte Land, the completion of the Charlotte Build-to-Suit and subsequent leasing of that property, as contemplated under the preliminary agreement, will not be completed under the current terms, or at all.
On June 24, 2020, INDUS entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the “First Allentown Purchase Agreement”) to acquire for a purchase price of $3.1 million, an approximately 18 acre parcel of undeveloped land in the Lehigh Valley of Pennsylvania. On August 27, 2020, INDUS entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the “Second Allentown Purchase Agreement”) to acquire for a purchase price of $1.1 million, approximately 5 acres of undeveloped land that abuts that 18 acre parcel to be acquired under the First Allentown Purchase Agreement. Closings on the land acquisitions contemplated under the First Allentown Purchase Agreement and the Second Allentown Purchase Agreement are subject to significant contingencies, including INDUS obtaining all governmental approvals for its planned development of an approximately 206,000 square foot industrial/logistics building on the land parcels that would be acquired. Given these contingencies, it is possible that the land acquisitions as contemplated under the First Allentown Purchase Agreement and the Second Allentown Purchase Agreement will not be completed under their current terms, or at all.
On July 17, 2020, INDUS entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the “Orlando Purchase Agreement”) to acquire for a purchase price of $5.25 million an approximately 14 acre parcel of undeveloped land in Orlando, Florida. Closing on the land acquisition contemplated under the Orlando Purchase Agreement is subject to significant contingencies, including INDUS obtaining all governmental approvals for its planned development of two industrial/logistics buildings totaling approximately 195,000 square feet on the land parcel that would be acquired. Given these contingencies, it is possible that the land acquisition as contemplated under the Orlando Purchase Agreement will not be completed under its current terms, or at all.
The following table summarizes INDUS’s current and planned development and acquisition activities as described above:
The total estimated investment in INDUS’s current and planned development and acquisition activities (as shown above) is approximately $93.7 million (inclusive of leasing costs), with approximately $11.4 million spent as of November 30, 2020.
As a part of INDUS’s standard development and acquisition underwriting process, INDUS analyzes the targeted initial full year stabilized Cash NOI yield for each development project and acquisition target and establishes a range of initial full year stabilized Cash NOI yields, which it refers to as “underwritten stabilized Cash NOI yields.” INDUS’s weighted average underwritten stabilized Cash NOI yield from the current and planned development and acquisition activities shown above is expected to range between 6.0% and 6.5%. Underwritten stabilized Cash NOI yields are calculated as a development project’s or acquisition’s initial full year stabilized Cash NOI as a percentage of its estimated total investment, including costs to stabilize the buildings to 95% occupancy (other than in connection with build-to-suit development projects and single tenant properties). INDUS calculates initial full year stabilized Cash NOI for a development project or acquisition by subtracting its estimate of the development project’s or acquisition’s initial full year stabilized operating expenses, real estate taxes and non-cash rental revenue, including straight-line rents (before interest, income taxes, if any, and depreciation and amortization), from its estimate of its initial full year stabilized rental revenue. Actual initial full year stabilized Cash NOI yields may vary from INDUS’s underwritten stabilized Cash NOI yield ranges based on the actual total cost to complete a project or acquire a property and its actual initial full year stabilized Cash NOI. See “Item 1A. “Risk Factors-Risks Related to INDUS’s Business and Properties-The actual initial full year stabilized cash net operating income yields from INDUS’s planned development and acquisition activities may not be consistent with the underwritten stabilized Cash NOI yield ranges set forth in this Annual Report.”
Land Holdings by State
As of November 30, 2020, INDUS’s undeveloped and developed acreage was as follows:
Undeveloped Land Holdings by Category
Development of INDUS’s land is affected by regulatory and other constraints. Development of INDUS’s undeveloped land may also be affected by traffic considerations, potential environmental issues, community opposition and other restrictions to development imposed by governmental agencies. Portions of INDUS’s land holdings in Connecticut are zoned for residential and office uses. The weakness in these markets has adversely affected INDUS, and may continue to do so in the future, by potentially lowering selling prices for land intended for such uses or delaying sales or development of such land.
A breakdown of INDUS’s undeveloped land holdings by category as of November 30, 2020 was as follows:
(a)See “Land Under Agreement for Sale” below for further detail on the parcels included herein.
(b)In Connecticut, INDUS holds entitlements and/or plans (not yet approved) to develop approximately 980,000 square feet of industrial/logistics space on land owned by INDUS. Approximately 482,000 square feet of this is in New England Tradeport, INDUS’s industrial park in Windsor and East Granby, Connecticut. Given certain contingencies, it is possible that INDUS will not be able to develop the entitled square footage or sell the entitled land parcels to a third party for development.
(c)Represents two parcels located at 11 Goodwin Drive in Bloomfield, CT which are not planned or entitled, but which management believes may be best suited for industrial/logistics use in the future.
(d)Includes approximately 90 acres in Bloomfield, CT, 70 acres in Windsor, CT and 75 acres in Simsbury, CT which INDUS believes may be suitable for commercial or mixed use development projects in the future.
However, this land does not have the approvals necessary for such development and INDUS believes that additional infrastructure improvements, which may be significant, may be required as part of any development.
(e)Includes 207 acres in Southwick, MA and 14 acres in Bloomfield and Windsor, CT that are zoned for residential development but do not have any entitlements.
(f)Includes several parcels of land that may be suitable for a variety of future uses including residential, commercial or industrial but management is unable to determine the most likely use at this time.
(g)In fiscal 2009, Imperial shut down its growing operations in Quincy, Florida (the “Florida Farm”) and subsequently leased that facility to growers of landscape nursery plants. The Florida Farm currently is unoccupied and INDUS is marketing the Florida Farm for sale or lease.
(h)Includes 366 acres in East Granby and 323 acres in Granby that comprise the Connecticut Farm that is leased to Monrovia Connecticut LLC (“Monrovia”) under the Imperial Lease. Concurrent with INDUS’s sale in fiscal 2014 of its landscape nursery business, Imperial Nurseries, Inc., INDUS and the buyer, Monrovia entered into a Lease and Option Agreement, which was amended in fiscal 2016 (as amended, the “Imperial Lease”) pursuant to which Monrovia leased Imperial’s production nursery located in Granby and East Granby, Connecticut (the “Connecticut Farm”) for a ten-year period. The Imperial Lease grants Monrovia options to extend the term for up to an additional fifteen years and to purchase the land, land improvements and other operating assets that were used by Imperial on the Connecticut Farm during the first thirteen years of the lease period for $9.5 million, or $7.0 million if only a certain portion of the Connecticut Farm is purchased, subject in each case to certain adjustments as provided for in the Imperial Lease.
(i)Represents land in Connecticut which management believes is not suitable for development and is unlikely to be developed either by INDUS or another potential user or buyer.
Dispositions of Non-Core Undeveloped Land and Office/Flex Property
Periodically, INDUS may sell certain portions of its real estate assets that it has owned for an extended time period and the use of which is not consistent with INDUS’s core industrial/logistics acquisition, development and asset management strategy. These sale transactions may take place either before or after obtaining development approvals and building basic infrastructure.
In fiscal 2020, INDUS completed several sales aggregating approximately 46 acres of undeveloped land, as well as one vacant office/flex building located at 55 Griffin Road South. 55 Griffin Road South was sold in November of 2020 for gross proceeds of $1.4 million. 32 of the 46 acres of undeveloped land were a mix of residential land parcels and other uses which sold for a combined total of $1.4 million in gross proceeds, while the remaining 14 acres, which had limited development potential, were in INDUS’s Phoenix Crossing business park, and sold for approximately $0.3 million in gross proceeds.
In fiscal 2019, INDUS completed several land sales, the largest being the sale of approximately 280 acres of undeveloped land in Simsbury, Connecticut (the “Simsbury Land Sale”) for approximately $7.7 million. The proceeds from the Simsbury Land Sale were placed in escrow at closing to be used as part of a like-kind exchange (a “1031 Like-Kind Exchange”) under Section 1031 of the Code that enabled INDUS to defer the gain on the Simsbury Land Sale for income tax purposes. Subsequently, the sale proceeds were used to acquire two undeveloped parcels of land in Charlotte, North Carolina totaling approximately 44 acres, also referred to as the Old Statesville Road development, and an approximately 14 acre parcel of undeveloped land in the Lehigh Valley, also referred to as the Chapmans Road development.
In fiscal 2019, INDUS also completed the sales of approximately 116 acres of undeveloped land in East Windsor, Connecticut (the “East Windsor Land”) and the East Windsor Land’s development rights in two separate transactions totaling approximately $1.6 million. INDUS also received approximately $0.5 million from several smaller land sales.
Land Under Agreement for Sale
Land parcels currently under agreement for sale are as follows:
East Granby / Windsor Parcels
On December 10, 2019, INDUS entered into an Option Purchase Agreement (the “East Granby/Windsor Option Agreement”) whereby INDUS granted the buyer an exclusive one-year option, in exchange for a nominal fee, to purchase approximately 280 acres of undeveloped land in East Granby and Windsor, Connecticut for use as a solar farm. Subsequent to November 30, 2020 the option period was extended through December 10, 2021. The buyer may extend the option period for an additional two years upon payment of additional option fees. The purchase price has a range from a minimum of $6.0 million to a maximum of $7.95 million based upon the projected amount of electricity to be generated from the site. The land subject to the East Granby/Windsor Option Agreement does not have any of the approvals that would be required for the buyer’s planned use of the land. A closing on the land sale contemplated by the East Granby/Windsor Option Agreement is subject to several significant contingencies, including the buyer securing contracts under a competitive bidding process and obtaining local and state approvals for that planned use of the land. Given these contingencies, it is possible that the land sale contemplated under the East Granby/Windsor Option Agreement will not be completed under its current terms, or at all.
Meadowood Residential Parcels
On February 3, 2020, INDUS entered into an option agreement (the “Meadowood Option Agreement”) with a national land conservation organization (the “Conservation Organization”) to sell the approximately 277 acres of Meadowood (the “Meadowood Land”). For a minimal fee, the Meadowood Option Agreement grants the Conservation Organization the right to purchase the Meadowood Land for open space and farmland preservation whereby INDUS would receive net proceeds of approximately $5.4 million, if the purchase option is exercised. The Meadowood Option Agreement grants the Conservation Organization an initial term of twelve months, with one six-month extension, to exercise its option and acquire the Meadowood Land. On February 3, 2021, the Conservation Organization exercised its six months extension. Completion of a sale of the Meadowood Land contemplated under the Meadowood Option Agreement is subject to several contingencies, including the satisfactory outcome of due diligence by the Conservation Organization and the Conservation Organization securing funding from several public and private sources to acquire the Meadowood Land. Given these contingencies, it is possible a sale of the Meadowood Land will not be completed under the current terms of the Meadowood Option Agreement, or at all.
Stratton Farms Residential Parcels
In fiscal 2006, INDUS completed the infrastructure for a fifty lot residential subdivision in Suffield, Connecticut called Stratton Farms. INDUS sold twenty five residential lots in Stratton Farms to a local homebuilder in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007, and subsequently sold nine additional lots. On November 24, 2020, INDUS entered into an agreement to sell the remaining 16 residential lots for gross proceeds of $900,000. On January 12, 2021, INDUS and the buyer entered into an amendment to the agreement of sale which adjusted the outside closing date of the sale to the third fiscal quarter of 2021. A sale of the Stratton Farms parcels is subject to contingencies and, as such, it is possible a sale of the Stratton Farms residential parcels will not be completed under the current terms, or at all.
Southwick, MA Land
On February 10, 2021, INDUS entered into an agreement to sell approximately 91 acres of its undeveloped land in Southwick, MA for $5.25 million (the “Southwick Land Sale”). The land subject to the Southwick Land Sale does not have any of the approvals that would be required for the buyer’s planned use of the land and closing on the land sale is subject to several significant contingencies, including the buyer obtaining governmental approvals for the planned use of the land. Given these contingencies, it is possible that the Southwick Land Sale will not be completed under its current terms, or at all.
Property-Level Financings
As with many companies engaged in real estate investment and development, INDUS holds portions of its real estate portfolio subject to mortgage debt. See Note 6 to INDUS’s consolidated financial statements for information concerning the mortgage loans associated with INDUS’s properties. As of November 30, 2020, all of INDUS’s industrial/logistics buildings, except 160 and 180 International Drive in Charlotte, 210 West Newberry Road and 131 Phoenix Crossing in Bloomfield, and 170 Sunport Lane in Orlando, were mortgaged for a total of $159.1 million. INDUS’s two multi-story office buildings in Griffin Center, 5 and 7 Waterside Crossing, were mortgaged for approximately $4.1 million, as of November 30, 2020.
INDUS’s $19.5 million revolving line of credit is secured by the balance of INDUS’s eight single-story office/flex buildings, and three industrial/logistics properties: 210 West Newberry Road and 131 Phoenix Crossing in Bloomfield and 170 Sunport Lane in Orlando.
Other
INDUS subleases approximately 1,920 square feet in New York City for its executive offices from Bloomingdale Properties, Inc. (“Bloomingdale Properties”), an entity that is controlled by certain members of the Cullman and Ernst Group. The sublease with Bloomingdale Properties was approved by the Board’s Audit Committee and the lease rates under the sublease were at market rate at the time the sublease was signed.
ITEM 3.