ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
The information included in this Report about the Company’s oil, NGL and gas reserves as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, which are located in the United States, Argentina, Canada, South Africa and Tunisia, were based on evaluations prepared by the Company’s engineers and audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”) with respect to the Company’s major properties and prepared by the Company’s engineers with respect to all other properties. The reserve audits performed by NSAI in aggregate represented 82 percent, 88 percent and 87 percent of the Company’s 2005, 2004 and 2003 proved reserves, respectively; and, 76 percent, 84 percent and 89 percent of the Company’s 2005, 2004 and 2003 associated present value of proved reserves discounted at ten percent, respectively.
NSAI follows the general principles set forth in the standards pertaining to the estimating and auditing of oil and gas reserve information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (“SPE”). A reserve audit as defined
by the SPE is not the same as a financial audit. The SPE’s definition of a reserve audit includes the following concepts:
•
A reserve audit is an examination of reserve information that is conducted for the purpose of expressing an opinion as to whether such reserve information, in the aggregate, is reasonable and has been presented in conformity with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles.
•
The estimation of proved reserves is an imprecise science due to the many unknown geologic and reservoir factors that cannot be estimated through sampling techniques. Since reserves are only estimates, they cannot be audited for the purpose of verifying exactness. Instead, reserve information is audited for the purpose of reviewing in sufficient detail the policies, procedures and methods used by a company in estimating its reserves so that the reserve auditors may express an opinion as to whether, in the aggregate, the reserve information furnished by a company is reasonable and has been estimated and presented in conformity with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles.
•
The methods and procedures used by a company, and the reserve information furnished by a company, must be reviewed in sufficient detail to permit the reserve auditor, in its professional judgment, to express an opinion as to the reasonableness of the reserve information. The auditing procedures require the reserve auditor to prepare its own estimates of reserve information for the audited properties.
To further clarify, in conjunction with the audits of the Company’s proved reserves and associated present value discounted at ten percent, the Company provided to NSAI its external and internal engineering and geoscience technical data and analyses. Based on NSAI’s review of that data, they had the option of honoring the Company’s interpretation, or making their own interpretation. No data was withheld from them. NSAI accepted without independent verification the accuracy and completeness of the historical information and data furnished by the Company with respect to ownership interest; oil and gas production; well test data; oil, NGL and gas prices; operating and development costs; and any agreements relating to current and future operations of the properties and sales of production. However, if in the course of their evaluation something came to their attention which brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, NSAI did not rely on such information or data until they had satisfactorily resolved their questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data.
In the course of their evaluations, NSAI prepared, for all of the audited properties, their own estimates of the Company’s proved reserves and present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent. NSAI’s estimates of those proved reserves and present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent did not differ from the Company’s estimates by more than ten percent in the aggregate. However, when compared on a field-by-field or area-by-area basis, some of the Company’s estimates were greater than those of NSAI and some were less than the estimates of NSAI. When such differences do not exceed ten percent in the aggregate and NSAI is satisfied that the proved reserves and present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent are reasonable and that their audit objectives have been met, NSAI will issue a completed unqualified audit opinion. Remaining differences are not resolved due to the limited cost benefit of continuing such analyses by the Company and NSAI. At the conclusion of the audit process, it is NSAI’s opinion, as set forth in its audit letters, that Pioneer’s estimates of the Company’s proved oil and gas reserves and associated future net revenues are, in the aggregate, reasonable and have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles.
The Company did not provide estimates of total proved oil and gas reserves during 2005, 2004 or 2003 to any federal authority or agency, other than the SEC. The Company’s reserve estimates do not include any probable or possible reserves.
Proved Reserves
The Company’s proved reserves totaled 986.7 MMBOE, 1.0 billion BOE and 789.1 MMBOE at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, representing $7.3 billion, $6.6 billion and $4.6 billion, respectively, of Standardized Measure. The Company’s proved reserves include field fuel which is gas consumed to operate field equipment (primarily compressors) prior to the gas being delivered to a sales point. The following table shows
the changes in the Company’s proved reserve volumes by geographic area during the year ended December 31, 2005 (in MBOE):
Production. Production volumes include (a) 2,409 MBOE of field fuel and (b) 1,188 MBOE of production associated with certain divested assets being presented as discontinued operations.
Discoveries and extensions. Discoveries and extensions are primarily the result of (a) drilling activity in the Raton Basin in the United States, Horseshoe Canyon and Chinchaga fields in Canada and the Neuquen Basin in Argentina and (b) the approval to begin development of the gas reserves, previously discovered, off the south coast of South Africa.
Acquisitions. Acquisition volumes are primarily attributable to the (a) July 2005 announced completion of the acquisition of 70 MBOE of proved reserves in the Spraberry field and Gulf Coast area and (b) other smaller acquisitions.
Divestitures. The divestitures are primarily attributable to (a) the sale of approximately 28 MMBOE of proved reserves in the Spraberry and Hugoton fields through three VPPs, (b) the sale of approximately 10 MMBOE of proved reserves in properties on the shelf of the Gulf of Mexico and East Texas and (c) the sale of approximately 10 MMBOE of proved reserves in the Martin Creek and Conroy Black areas of northeast British Columbia and the Lookout Butte area of southern Alberta.
Revisions. The overall downward revisions are primarily attributable to (a) the recent drilling results in the deep gas reserves in the Neuquen Basin of Argentina which indicated that the gas reservoirs are more complex and compartmentalized than expected, and (b) additional production decline history on producing wells and unexpected drilling results in certain areas of the field in the Raton Basin in the United States where a number of wells drilled on the northern rim of the field during the second half of 2005 encountered less CBM reservoir than expected due to nonproductive volcanic intrusions into the coal interval. The downward revisions were offset by increased commodity prices that extended the economic life on various properties.
On a BOE basis, 62 percent of the Company’s total proved reserves at December 31, 2005 were proved developed reserves. Based on reserve information as of December 31, 2005, and using the Company’s production information for the year then ended, the reserve-to-production ratio associated with the Company’s proved reserves was 15 years on a BOE basis. The following table provides information regarding the Company’s proved reserves and average daily sales volumes by geographic area as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005:
(a)
The gas reserves contain 306 MMcf of gas that will be produced and utilized as field fuel.
(b)
The 2005 average daily sales volumes are from continuing operations and (i) do not include the field fuel produced, which averaged 6,599 BOEPD and (ii) were calculated using a 365-day year and without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions, divestitures or drilling activity that occurred during the year.
(c)
Assuming the Argentine export tax on oil remains in place after the expiration date of the law in February 2007 the standardized measure of discounted future cash flows for Argentina would be approximately $633 million at December 31, 2005.
The following table represents the estimated timing and cash flows of developing the Company’s proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2005:
Description of Properties
As of December 31, 2005, the Company has production, development and/or exploration operations in the United States, Argentina, Canada, Equatorial Guinea, Nigeria, South Africa and Tunisia.
United States
Approximately 78 percent of the Company’s proved reserves at December 31, 2005 is located in the Spraberry field in the Permian Basin area, the Hugoton and West Panhandle fields of the Mid-Continent area and the Raton field in the Rocky Mountain area. These fields generate substantial operating cash flow and the Spraberry and Raton fields have a large portfolio of low risk drilling opportunities. The cash flows generated from these fields provide funding for the Company’s other development and exploration activities both domestically and internationally. The Company has preliminarily budgeted approximately $900 million to $1.0 billion for exploration and development drilling expenditures for 2006.
The following tables summarize the Company’s development and exploration/extension drilling activities during 2005:
The following table summarizes by geographic area the Company’s costs incurred, excluding asset retirement obligations, during 2005 and the total wells preliminarily planned to be drilled during 2006:
(a)
Includes two sidetrack wells proposed by the operator in the Aconcagua field and two delineation wells planned on the Clipper discovery.
Permian Basin
Spraberry field. The Spraberry field was discovered in 1949 and encompasses eight counties in West Texas. The field is approximately 150 miles long and 75 miles wide at its widest point. The oil produced is West Texas Intermediate Sweet, and the gas produced is casinghead gas with an average energy content of 1,400 Btu. The oil and gas are produced primarily from three formations, the upper and lower Spraberry and the Dean, at depths ranging from 6,700 feet to 9,200 feet. Recently, the Company has begun completing selected wells in the Wolfcamp formation at depths ranging from 9,300 feet to 10,300 feet with successful results. The Company believes the area offers excellent opportunities to enhance oil and gas production because of the numerous undeveloped drilling locations, many of which are reflected in the Company’s proved undeveloped reserves, and the ability to contain operating expenses through economies of scale.
Mid-Continent
Hugoton field. The Hugoton field in southwest Kansas is one of the largest producing gas fields in the continental United States. The gas is produced from the Chase and Council Grove formations at depths ranging from 2,700 feet to 3,000 feet. The Company’s gas in the Hugoton field has an average energy content of 1,025 Btu. The Company’s Hugoton properties are located on approximately 257,000 gross acres (237,000 net acres), covering approximately 400 square miles. The Company has working interests in approximately 1,200 wells in the Hugoton field, about 1,000 of which it operates, and partial royalty interests in approximately 500 wells. The Company owns substantially all of the gathering and processing facilities, primarily the Satanta plant, that service its production from the Hugoton field. Such ownership allows the Company to control the production, gathering, processing and sale of its gas and NGL production.
The Company’s Hugoton operated wells are capable of producing approximately 74 MMcf of wet gas per day (i.e., gas production at the wellhead before processing or field fuel use and before reduction for royalties), although actual production in the Hugoton field is limited by allowables set by state regulators. The Company estimates that it
and other major producers in the Hugoton field produced near allowable capacity during the year ended December 31, 2005.
West Panhandle field. The West Panhandle properties are located in the panhandle region of Texas. These stable, long-lived reserves are attributable to the Red Cave, Brown Dolomite, Granite Wash and fractured Granite formations at depths no greater than 3,500 feet. The Company’s gas in the West Panhandle field has an average energy content of 1,300 Btu and is produced from approximately 600 wells on more than 250,000 gross acres covering over 375 square miles. The Company controls 100 percent of the wells, production equipment, gathering system and gas processing plant for the field.
Rocky Mountains
Raton field. The Raton Basin properties are located in the southeast portion of Colorado. Exploration for CBM in the Raton Basin began in the late 1970s and continued through the late 1980s, with several companies drilling and testing more than 100 wells during this period. The absence of a pipeline to transport gas from the Raton Basin prevented full scale development until January 1995, when Colorado Interstate Gas Company completed the construction of the Picketwire lateral pipeline system. The Company’s gas in the Raton Basin has an average energy content of 1,000 Btu. Since the completion of the Picketwire lateral, production has continued to grow, resulting in expansion of the system’s capacity by its operator, the most recent expansion of which was in October 2005. The Company owns approximately 385,000 gross acres in the center of the Raton Basin with current production from coal seams of the Vermejo and Raton formations.
Piceance/Uinta Basins. The Piceance Basin is located in the central portion of western Colorado, and the Uinta Basin is located in the central portion of eastern Utah. The Company owns approximately 115,000 acres covering producing and prospective regions of the Piceance and Uinta Basins. Currently, production is established from various tight sandstone, coal and shale formations.
Sand Wash Basin. The Sand Wash Basin is the site of a potential CBM project located north of the Company’s Piceance Basin properties. The Company holds a 50 percent operated interest in 114,000 gross acres in the Lay Creek field. In 2006, the Company plans to (i) refrac the wells drilled by the previous owner in two existing pilots, specifically targeting coal seams to reduce water handling and (ii) drill an additional two or three pilot programs to evaluate the potential of the project.
Gulf of Mexico
Gulf of Mexico area. In the Gulf of Mexico, the Company has focused on reserve and production growth by drilling its portfolio of shelf and deepwater development projects, high-impact, higher-risk shelf and deepwater exploration prospects and exploitation opportunities inherent in the properties the Company currently has producing on the shelf.
During September 2005, the Company announced its plans to pursue the divestment of its deepwater Gulf of Mexico assets to reduce the exploration risk and production volatility that have been associated with these assets. The deepwater Gulf of Mexico bid process has been completed and the Company is currently in negotiations for the sale of these assets. No assurance can be given that a sale can be completed on terms acceptable to the Company. However, if successfully completed, such a divestiture would remove the deepwater Gulf of Mexico from the Company’s portfolio of oil and gas activities.
During 2005, the Company had five significant projects in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, which are discussed below:
•
Canyon Express - The Canyon Express project is a joint development of three deepwater Gulf of Mexico gas discoveries, including the Company’s Total E&P USA-operated Aconcagua field and Marathon-operated Camden Hills fields, where the Company holds 37.5 percent and 33.3 percent working interests, respectively. The Company participated in the discovery of the Aconcagua gas field in 1999 and later added Camden Hills to its portfolio to enhance its ownership in the project. The Canyon Express project was approved for development in June 2000 and reached first production in September 2002. The existing Aconcagua and Camden Hills wells are expected to reach the end of their productive lives in early
2006; therefore, the Company now anticipates that the system will be shut in once the recoverable reserves are fully produced until a rig becomes available to drill sidetrack wells in the Aconcagua field. The Company has been advised by the operator of the Canyon Express system that sidetrack operations are planned for the Aconcagua field in late 2006.
•
Falcon Corridor - The Falcon Corridor project started with the Company’s Falcon field discovery during 2001, followed by the 2003 Harrier, Raptor and Tomahawk discoveries. The Company owns a 100 percent working interest in the Falcon Corridor discoveries and surrounding areas. First production from Falcon occurred in March 2003, followed by production from Harrier, Raptor and Tomahawk in 2004. During 2005, the Harrier, Raptor and Tomahawk fields were fully depleted.
•
Devils Tower Area - The Dominion-operated Devils Tower development project was sanctioned in 2001 as a spar development project with the owners leasing a spar from a third party for the life of the field. The spar has slots for eight dry tree wells and up to four subsea tie-back risers and is capable of handling 60 MBbls of oil per day and 60 MMcf of gas per day. Devils Tower production operations were initiated in 2004 prior to being shut in due to Hurricane Ivan. Production was resumed in November 2004. In addition to the Devils Tower wells, three subsea tie-back wells in the Goldfinger and Triton satellite discoveries in the Devils Tower area were jointly tied back to the Devils Tower spar in November of 2005. The Company holds a 25 percent working interest in each of these projects.
•
Thunder Hawk - The Murphy Exploration and Production Company-operated Thunder Hawk discovery in 2004 encountered in excess of 300 feet of net oil pay in two high-quality reservoir zones in Mississippi Canyon Block 734. The third appraisal well was spudded during the fourth quarter of 2005 and plans to complete the drilling of the previously spudded second well, which was temporarily suspended due to weather. These wells are expected to be completed during the first half of 2006. The Company owns a 12.5 percent working interest in this discovery.
•
Clipper - During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company announced a discovery on its Clipper prospect in the Green Canyon Block 299. The Company plans additional drilling during 2006 to further delineate the field. The Company operates the block with a 55 percent working interest.
Onshore Gulf Coast
South Texas. The Company has focused its drilling efforts in this area on the Pawnee field in the Edwards Reef trend in South Texas. The Edwards Reef trend is a tight gas limestone reservoir characterized by narrow bands of dry gas fields extending over 250 miles. In addition to the Pawnee field, the Company has operations in the SW Kenedy and Washburn fields of the Edwards Reef trend and a growing acreage position with over 160,000 acres acquired during the past year. Production depths in the trend range from 9,500 feet to 14,000 feet, from which over 1 trillion cubic feet of gas has been produced by the oil and gas industry. The Company drilled its first successful exploration well in the recently acquired acreage in the Edwards Reef trend in late 2005 and is currently producing approximately 1.3 MMcf of gas per day from the discovery. Pioneer’s current plans include drilling at least 20 wells in the Edwards Reef trend during 2006, leveraging the Company’s horizontal drilling expertise.
Northern Louisiana and Mississippi. The Company has acquired significant acreage in Northern Louisiana and Mississippi. During 2006, the Company is planning exploratory tests in the Hosston/Cotton Valley trend in Northern Louisiana and a Norphlet prospect in Mississippi.
Alaska
North Slope area. During 2002, the Company acquired a 70 percent working interest and operatorship in ten state leases on Alaska’s North Slope. Associated therewith, the Company drilled three exploratory wells during 2003 to test a possible extension of the productive sands in the Kuparuk River field in the shallow waters offshore. Although all three of the wells found the sands filled with oil, they were too thin to be considered commercial on a stand-alone basis. However, the wells also encountered thick sections of oil-bearing Jurassic-aged sands, and the first well flowed at a rate of approximately 1,300 Bbls per day (“BPD”). In January 2004, the Company farmed-into a large acreage block to the southwest of the Company’s discovery. In the fourth quarter of 2004, Pioneer completed
an extensive technical and economic evaluation of the resource potential within this area. As a result of this evaluation, the Company performed front-end engineering and permitting activities during 2005 to further define the scope of the project. In February 2006, the Company announced that it has approved and is commencing the development of the Oooguruk field in the project area. Following the construction of a gravel drilling and production site in 2006, installation of a subsea flowline and facilities are planned for 2007 to carry produced liquids to existing onshore processing facilities at the Kuparuk River Unit. Between 2007 and 2009, Pioneer plans to drill approximately 40 horizontal wells in the Oooguruk field. Total gross capital invested, including projected drilling and facility costs, is expected to range from $450 million to $525 million. First production from these wells is expected to begin in 2008.
During the first quarter of 2006, Pioneer anticipates drilling two exploration wells as operator, one with a 50 percent working interest in the Storms area, and a second, under a farm-in agreement with ConocoPhillips, with a 90 percent working interest on the Cronus prospect. Under another farm-in agreement with ConocoPhillips, Pioneer plans to participate with a 32.5 percent working interest in a third exploration well to be drilled on ConocoPhillips’ Antigua prospect.
Cosmopolitan. During 2005, Pioneer announced that it entered into an agreement on the Cosmopolitan Unit in the Cook Inlet. Under this agreement, Pioneer earned a ten percent working interest in the unit from ConocoPhillips through a disproportionate spending arrangement for a 3-D seismic program undertaken during the fourth quarter of 2005. Pursuant to this agreement, Pioneer has the option to acquire an additional 40 percent interest in the Cosmopolitan Unit any time prior to June 1, 2006. Upon evaluation of the results of the aforementioned 3-D seismic program, Pioneer will determine whether or not to exercise this option.
International
The Company’s international operations are located in the Neuquen and Austral Basins areas of Argentina, the Chinchaga and Horseshoe Canyon areas of Canada, the Sable oil field offshore South Africa and in southern Tunisia. Additionally, the Company has other development and exploration activities in the shallow waters offshore South Africa and oil development and exploration activities in Equatorial Guinea, Nigeria and Tunisia. As of December 31, 2005, approximately ten percent, two percent and two percent of the Company’s proved reserves were located in Argentina, Canada and Africa, respectively.
The following tables summarize the Company’s development and exploration/extension drilling activities outside the United States during 2005:
The following table summarizes by geographic area the Company’s international costs incurred, excluding asset retirement obligations, during 2005 and the total wells preliminarily planned to be drilled during 2006:
Argentina. The Company’s operated production in Argentina is concentrated in the Neuquen Basin, which is located about 925 miles southwest of Buenos Aires and to the east of the Andes Mountains. Oil and gas are produced primarily from the Al Norte de la Dorsal, the Al Sur de la Dorsal, the Dadin, the Loma Negra, the Dos Hermanas, the Anticlinal Campamento and the Estación Fernández Oro blocks, in each of which the Company has a 100 percent working interest. Most of the gas produced from these blocks is processed in the Company’s Loma Negra gas processing plant. The Company operates the Meseta Sirven block located in the southern part of the San Jorge basin in Santa Cruz Province, approximately 1,200 miles south of Buenos Aires. The production from this block, in which the Company has a 100 percent working interest, is primarily oil. The Company also operates and has a 50 percent working interest in the Lago Fuego field, which is located in Tierra del Fuego, an island in the extreme southern portion of Argentina, approximately 1,500 miles south of Buenos Aires.
Most of the Company’s nonoperated production in Argentina is located in Tierra del Fuego, the most southern province in Argentina, where oil, gas and NGLs are produced from six separate fields in which the Company has a 35 percent working interest. The Company also has a 14.4 percent working interest in the Confluencia field which is located in the Neuquen Basin.
During September 2005, the Company announced that it would pursue the sale of its nonoperated position in Tierra del Fuego. During the Tierra del Fuego sales process, several prospective buyers indicated that they could enhance their value for a transaction in Argentina if it included all of Pioneer’s properties. The Company decided that if a buyer presented an attractive offer for all of the Argentine assets, that it would consider exiting Argentina. On January 17, 2006, the Company announced signing an agreement with Apache Corporation to sell all of the Company’s interests in Argentina for $675 million (subject to normal closing adjustments). The transaction is expected to close during the latter part of the first quarter or in early April of 2006.
Canada. The Company’s Canadian producing properties are located primarily in Alberta and British Columbia, Canada. In May 2005, the Company sold its ownership interests in the Martin Creek and Conroy Black areas of northeast British Columbia and the Lookout Butte area of southern Alberta for net proceeds of $197.2 million. The Company continues to exploit lower risk opportunities identified in the Chinchaga field core area of northeast British Columbia. The Company also initiated significant drilling, pipeline and facility activities in south-central Alberta targeting Horseshoe Canyon CBM potential on the existing land base in the greater Drumheller area.
Production from the Chinchaga area of northeast British Columbia is relatively dry gas from formation depths averaging 3,400 feet. The greater Drumheller area in south-central Alberta produces CBM gas, CBM condensate and minor oil from Cretaceous to Devonian formations at depths ranging from 400 to 6,500 feet. The Company has CBM gas production currently from the Horseshoe Canyon coal and further exploitation drilling will occur throughout the area in 2006.
Equatorial Guinea. The Company owns a 50 percent working interest in Block H offshore Equatorial Guinea. The Company has identified several prospects on the block that are being evaluated for future drilling, one of which is expected to be drilled during 2006 or 2007.
Nigeria. A partially-owned subsidiary of the Company joined Oranto Petroleum and Orandi Petroleum in an existing production sharing contract on Block 320 in deepwater Nigeria gaining exploration rights from the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation. The subsidiary, which holds a 51 percent interest in Block 320, is owned 59 percent by the Company and 41 percent by an unaffiliated third party. The Company acquired 3-D seismic data in 2005, is currently processing the seismic and plans to drill the first well in Block 320 during 2007.
The Company owns a 26 percent working interest in Devon-operated Block 256 offshore Nigeria. The Company participated in an unsuccessful exploratory well on this block during 2005 and is participating in a second exploration well that spudded during January 2006. The timing of a third exploration well planned for the block has not been determined.
The Company had previously announced it was awarded, through a consortium, rights to acreage in Blocks 2 and 3 of the Joint Development Zone in offshore Nigeria, São Tomé and Príncipe subject to negotiating acceptable joint operating and production sharing agreements. On February 7, 2006, the Company announced that it was withdrawing from participation in both blocks.
South Africa. The Company has agreements to explore for oil and gas offshore South Africa covering over five million acres along the southern coast in water depths generally less than 650 feet. The Sable oil field began producing in August 2003 and the majority of the gas from the field has been reinjected. The Company has a 40 percent working interest in the Sable field.
In December 2005, the Company announced the final approvals with its partner in the South Coast Gas project. Pioneer has a 45 percent working interest in the project. The project will include subsea tie-back of gas from the Sable field and six additional gas accumulations to the existing production facilities on the F-A platform for transportation via existing pipelines to a gas-to-liquids (“GTL”) plant. The Company has signed a contract for the sale of its share of gas and condensate to the GTL plant. Production is expected to begin during the second half of 2007 and increase to an average of approximately 100 MMcf per day of gas and 3,000 BPD of condensate over the initial phase of the project through 2012. Development drilling related to the project is expected to commence in the first quarter of 2006.
Tunisia. The Company’s Tunisian permits can be separated into three categories: (i) three permits covering 2.9 million acres which the Company operates with an average 55 percent working interest, (ii) the Anadarko-operated Anaguid and Jenein Nord permits covering over 1.5 million acres in which the Company has a 45 percent working interest and (iii) the ENI-operated Adam Concession and Borj El Khadra permit covering approximately 212,000 acres and 970,000 acres, respectively, in which the Company has a 20 percent and 40 percent working interest, respectively. Production from the Adam Concession began in May 2003. All permits are onshore southern Tunisia.
In 2005, the Company conducted an extended production test of one of the two existing Anaguid Block exploration wells and drilled an offset appraisal well to the other exploration well. The results of the extended production test were unfavorable. However, the appraisal well offsetting the second discovery encountered gas and condensate in a similar horizon to the initial well. The Company is currently reviewing data from the appraisal well to determine whether development of the area is economical.
Selected Oil and Gas Information
The following tables set forth selected oil and gas information from continuing operations for the Company as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. Because of normal production declines, increased or decreased drilling activities and the effects of acquisitions or divestitures, the historical information presented below should not be interpreted as being indicative of future results.
Production, price and cost data. The following tables set forth production, price and cost data with respect to the Company’s properties for 2005, 2004 and 2003. These amounts represent the Company’s historical results from
continuing operations without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions, divestitures or drilling activity that occurred during the respective years. The production amounts will not agree to the reserve volume tables in the “Unaudited Supplementary Information” section included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” due to field fuel volumes and production from discontinued operations being included in the reserve volume tables.
The Company’s lower average prices received for its Argentine commodities, as compared to the prices received in other countries, are due to price limitations imposed by the Argentine government in an effort to keep fuel and energy prices for Argentine consumers at pre-devaluation levels. These limitations have kept the prices received for oil and gas sales in Argentina well below world market levels. Beginning in 2004, the government mandated certain scheduled gas price increases through mid-2005. Those specific increases occurred as scheduled, but no specific predictions can be made about the future of oil or gas prices in Argentina. See “Qualitative Disclosures” in “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for additional discussion of Argentine foreign currency, operations and price risk.
PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA
PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA - (Continued)
PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA - (Continued)
Productive wells. The following table sets forth the number of productive oil and gas wells attributable to the Company’s properties as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:
PRODUCTIVE WELLS(a)
(a)
Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including shut-in wells. One or more completions in the same well bore are counted as one well. If any well in which one of the multiple completions is an oil completion, then the well is classified as an oil well. As of December 31, 2005, the Company owned interests in 214 gross wells containing multiple completions.
Leasehold acreage. The following table sets forth information about the Company’s developed, undeveloped and royalty leasehold acreage as of December 31, 2005:
LEASEHOLD ACREAGE
The following table sets forth the expiration dates of the leases on the Company’s gross and net undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2005:
(a)
Acres expiring are based on contractual lease maturities.
(b)
Acres subject to expiration during 2006 include 2.6 million gross acres (1.3 million net acres) in Tunisia, 97,952 gross acres (48,976 net acres) in Equatorial Guinea and 309,069 gross acres (207,200 net acres) in North America. The Company may extend these leases prior to their expiration based upon 2006 planned activities or for other business reasons. In certain of these leases, the extension is only subject to the Company’s election to extend and the fulfillment of certain capital expenditure commitments. In other cases, the extensions are subject to the consent of third parties, and no assurance can be given that the requested extensions will be granted. See “Description of Properties” above for information regarding the Company’s drilling operations.
Drilling activities. The following table sets forth the number of gross and net productive and dry hole wells in which the Company had an interest that were drilled during 2005, 2004 and 2003. This information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there was any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and the oil and gas reserves generated thereby or the costs to the Company of productive wells compared to the costs of dry holes.
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
(a)
Represents the ratio of those wells that were successfully completed as producing wells or wells capable of producing to total wells drilled and evaluated.
The following table sets forth information about the Company’s wells upon which drilling was in progress as of December 31, 2005:
ITEM 3.