ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The information included in this Report about the Company's proved reserves as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, which were located in the United States, Argentina, Canada, South Africa and Tunisia, were based on evaluations prepared by the Company's engineers and audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. ("NSAI") with respect to the Company's major properties and prepared by the Company's engineers with respect to all other properties. The reserve audits performed by NSAI in aggregate represented 89 percent, 82 percent and 88 percent of the Company's 2006, 2005 and 2004 proved reserves, respectively; and, 83 percent, 76 percent and 84 percent of the Company's 2006, 2005 and 2004 associated pre-tax present value of proved reserves discounted at ten percent, respectively.
NSAI follows the general principles set forth in the standards pertaining to the estimating and auditing of oil and gas reserve information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers ("SPE"). A reserve audit as defined by the SPE is not the same as a financial audit. The SPE's definition of a reserve audit includes the following concepts:
o A reserve audit is an examination of reserve information that is conducted for the purpose of expressing an opinion as to whether such reserve information, in the aggregate, is reasonable and has been presented in conformity with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles.
o The estimation of proved reserves is an imprecise science due to the many unknown geologic and reservoir factors that cannot be estimated through sampling techniques. Since reserves are only estimates, they cannot be audited for the purpose of verifying exactness. Instead, reserve information is audited for the purpose of reviewing in sufficient detail the policies, procedures and methods used by a company in estimating its reserves so that the reserve auditors may express an opinion as to whether, in the aggregate, the reserve information furnished by a company is reasonable and has been estimated and presented in conformity with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles.
o The methods and procedures used by a company, and the reserve information furnished by a company, must be reviewed in sufficient detail to permit the reserve auditor, in its professional judgment, to express an opinion as to the reasonableness of the reserve information. The auditing procedures require the reserve auditor to prepare its own estimates of reserve information for the audited properties.
To further clarify, in conjunction with the audits of the Company's proved reserves and associated pre-tax present value discounted at ten percent, the Company provided to NSAI its external and internal engineering and geoscience technical data and analyses. Following NSAI's review of that data, it had the option of honoring the Company's interpretation, or making its own interpretation. No data was withheld from NSAI. NSAI accepted without
independent verification the accuracy and completeness of the historical information and data furnished by the Company with respect to ownership interest; oil and gas production; well test data; oil, NGL and gas prices; operating and development costs; and any agreements relating to current and future operations of the properties and sales of production. However, if in the course of its evaluation something came to its attention that brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, NSAI did not rely on such information or data until it had satisfactorily resolved its questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data.
In the course of its evaluations, NSAI prepared, for all of the audited properties, its own estimates of the Company's proved reserves and pre-tax present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent. NSAI's estimates of those proved reserves and pre-tax present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent did not differ from the Company's estimates by more than ten percent in the aggregate. However, when compared on a field-by-field or area-by-area basis, some of the Company's estimates were greater than those of NSAI and some were less than the estimates of NSAI. When such differences did not exceed ten percent in the aggregate and NSAI was satisfied that the proved reserves and pre-tax present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent were reasonable and that its audit objectives had been met, NSAI issued a completed unqualified audit opinion. Remaining differences were not resolved due to the limited cost benefit of continuing such analyses by the Company and NSAI. At the conclusion of the audit process, it was NSAI's opinion, as set forth in its audit letters, that Pioneer's estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves and associated pre-tax future net revenues discounted at ten percent are, in the aggregate, reasonable and have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles.
The Company did not provide estimates of total proved oil and gas reserves during 2006, 2005 or 2004 to any federal authority or agency, other than the SEC. The Company's reserve estimates do not include any probable or possible reserves. Also, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors" and "Critical Accounting Estimates" in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis and Results of Operations" for additional discussions regarding proved reserves and their related cash flows.
Proved Reserves
The Company's proved reserves totaled 904.9 MMBOE, 986.7 MMBOE and 1.0 billion BOE at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, representing $4.7 billion, $7.3 billion and $6.6 billion, respectively, of Standardized Measure. The Company's proved reserves include field fuel, which is gas consumed to operate field equipment (primarily compressors) prior to the gas being delivered to a sales point. The following table shows the changes in the Company's proved reserve volumes by geographic area during the year ended December 31, 2006 (in MBOE):
Production. Production volumes include 2,894 MBOE of field fuel and 6,811 MBOE of production associated with divested assets being presented as discontinued operations.
Extensions and discoveries. Extensions and discoveries are primarily the result of extension drilling in the Raton field and Spraberry field in the United States and the Horseshoe Canyon field in Canada and lower-risk exploratory drilling in the Company's South Texas Edwards Trend and Tunisian resource plays.
Purchases of minerals-in-place. Purchases of minerals-in-place are primarily attributable to bolt-on acquisitions and joint venture activities in the Company's Spraberry field and Edwards Trend area.
Sales of minerals-in-place. Sales of minerals-in-place are principally related to the Company's divestiture of its deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Argentine assets during 2006. See Note N of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".
Revisions of previous estimates. Revisions of previous estimates are comprised of 14 MMBOE of negative price revisions offset by 6 MMBOE of positive technical revisions. The Company's proved reserves at December 31, 2006 were determined using year-end NYMEX equivalent prices of $60.82 per barrel of oil and $5.64 per Mcf of gas, compared to $61.04 per barrel of oil and $10.08 per Mcf of gas at December 31, 2005. The lower gas prices at December 31, 2006 decreased the economic life on certain gas properties, the majority of which were in the Raton gas field.
On a BOE basis, 60 percent of the Company's total proved reserves at December 31, 2006 were proved developed reserves. Based on reserve information as of December 31, 2006, and using the Company's production information for the year then ended, excluding production associated with divested assets included in discontinued operations, the reserve-to-production ratio associated with the Company's proved reserves was in excess of 20 years on a BOE basis. The following table provides information regarding the Company's proved reserves and average daily sales volumes by geographic area as of and for the year ended December 31, 2006:
The following table represents the estimated timing and cash flows of developing the Company's proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands):
Description of Properties
United States
Approximately 89 percent of the Company's proved reserves at December 31, 2006 are located in the Spraberry field in the Permian Basin area, the Hugoton and West Panhandle fields in the Mid-Continent area and the Raton field in the Rocky Mountains area. These fields generate substantial operating cash flow and the Spraberry and Raton fields have a large portfolio of low-risk drilling opportunities. The cash flows generated from these fields provide funding for the Company's other development and exploration activities both domestically and internationally.
The following tables summarize the Company's United States development and exploration/extension drilling activities during 2006:
The following tables summarize by geographic area the Company's United States costs incurred during 2006:
Permian Basin
Spraberry field. The Spraberry field was discovered in 1949 and encompasses eight counties in West Texas. The field is approximately 150 miles long and 75 miles wide at its widest point. The oil produced is West Texas Intermediate Sweet, and the gas produced is casinghead gas with an average energy content of 1,400 Btu. The oil and gas are produced primarily from three formations, the upper and lower Spraberry and the Dean, at depths ranging from 6,700 feet to 9,200 feet. In addition, the Company has started completing the majority of its wells in the Wolfcamp formation at depths ranging from 9,300 feet to 10,300 feet with successful results. The Company believes the Spraberry field offers excellent opportunities to enhance oil and gas production because of the numerous undeveloped drilling locations, many of which are reflected in the Company's proved undeveloped reserves, and the ability to contain operating expenses through economies of scale.
During 2006, the Company (a) drilled 299 wells, an increase of 118 wells over 2005, (b) acquired approximately 200,000 gross acres, bringing its total acreage position to approximately 684,000 gross acres (593,000 net acres), (c) completed several bolt-on property acquisitions and joint ventures, (d) successfully drilled a majority of the wells to the Wolfcamp formation and (e) acquired a well servicing operation as a measure to control costs.
Mid-Continent
Hugoton field. The Hugoton field in southwest Kansas is one of the largest producing gas fields in the continental United States. The gas is produced from the Chase and Council Grove formations at depths ranging from 2,700 feet to 3,000 feet. The Company's gas in the Hugoton field has an average energy content of 1,025 Btu. The Company's Hugoton properties are located on approximately 285,000 gross acres (247,000 net acres), covering approximately 400 square miles. The Company has working interests in approximately 1,200 wells in the Hugoton field, about 1,000 of which it operates, and partial royalty interests in approximately 500 wells. The Company owns substantially all of the gathering and processing facilities, primarily the Satanta plant, that service its production from the Hugoton field. Such ownership allows the Company to control the production, gathering, processing and sale of its gas and NGL production.
The Company's Hugoton operated wells are capable of producing approximately 69 MMcf of wet gas per day (i.e., gas production at the wellhead before processing or field fuel use and before reduction for royalties), although actual production in the Hugoton field is limited by allowables set by state regulators. The Company estimates that it and other major producers in the Hugoton field produced near allowable capacity during the year ended December 31, 2006.
During 2006, the Company reached a settlement agreement on the class action Alford royalty lawsuit which primarily revolved around costs being charged to the royalty owners. The settlement agreement provides for adjustment to the manner in which royalty payments will be calculated and accordingly, the Company expects a small increase in its production costs beginning in 2007. See Note I of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".
West Panhandle field. The West Panhandle properties are located in the panhandle region of Texas. These stable, long-lived reserves are attributable to the Red Cave, Brown Dolomite, Granite Wash and fractured Granite formations at depths no greater than 3,500 feet. The Company's gas in the West Panhandle field has an average energy content of 1,300 Btu and is produced from approximately 600 wells on more than 250,000 gross acres (240,000 net acres) covering over 375 square miles. The Company controls 100 percent of the wells, production equipment, gathering system and gas processing plant for the field.
The Company is pursuing regulatory relief in the West Panhandle field to allow for future additional drilling locations.
Rocky Mountains
Raton field. The Raton Basin properties are located in the southeast portion of Colorado. Exploration for CBM in the Raton Basin began in the late 1970s and continued through the late 1980s, with several companies drilling and testing more than 100 wells during this period. The absence of a pipeline to transport gas from the Raton Basin prevented full scale development until January 1995, when Colorado Interstate Gas Company completed the construction of the Picketwire lateral pipeline system. The Company's gas in the Raton Basin has an average energy content of 1,000 Btu. Since the completion of the Picketwire lateral, production has continued to grow, resulting in expansion of the system's capacity by its operator, the most recent expansion of which was in October 2005. The Company owns approximately 317,000 gross acres (281,000 net acres) in the center of the Raton Basin with current production from coal seams of the Vermejo and Raton formations. The Company owns the well servicing and frac equipment that it utilizes in the Raton field to control costs and insure availability.
During 2006, the Company (a) drilled 288 wells, (b) added wellhead compression and (c) continued efforts to optimize gathering and compression facilities.
Piceance/Uinta Basins. The Piceance Basin is located in the central portion of western Colorado, and the Uinta Basin is located in the central portion of eastern Utah. The Company owns approximately 244,000 gross acres covering producing and prospective regions of the Piceance and Uinta Basins. Currently, production is established from various tight sandstone, coal and shale formations. The Company's significant projects in the area are CBM plays at Columbine Springs and Castlegate and a deep gas play at Main Canyon.
At Columbine Springs, in northwest Colorado, the Company is completing its extension pilot program, with all wells expected to be on production by the end of the first quarter of 2007. If the pilot project is successful in achieving commercial quantities of gas production, full field development could begin in 2008.
In northeast Utah, the Company continues to monitor its CBM pilot at Castlegate and is testing the wells recently drilled in the Main Canyon area. An assessment of whether either project will be commercial is not expected until the second half of 2007.
Sand Wash Basin. The Sand Wash Basin is the site of a potential CBM project located north of the Company's Piceance Basin properties. The Company holds a 50 percent operated interest in 114,000 gross acres in the Lay Creek field. At Lay Creek, the Company has drilled 15 wells in five separate pilot areas and completed workovers and recompletions on 14 wells drilled by a previous operator. The Company has completed the water treatment facility and plans to initiate production in the first quarter of 2007. If the pilot projects are successful in achieving commercial quantities of gas production, full field development could begin in 2008.
Gulf of Mexico
Gulf of Mexico area. During March 2006, the Company sold all of its interests in certain oil and gas properties in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico for net proceeds of $1.2 billion, resulting in a gain of $726.2 million. See Notes N and V of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for a description of the deepwater Gulf of Mexico divestiture.
During 2005, the Company announced a discovery on its Clipper prospect in the Green Canyon Blocks 299 and 300 in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. During 2006, the Company drilled two successful Clipper appraisal wells, but drilled an unsuccessful exploratory well at the Flying Cloud prospect, a prospect near the Clipper discovery. The Company expects to develop the Clipper discovery and is currently evaluating sub-sea tie-back options to third-party production handling facilities in the area. Pioneer operates the Clipper discovery with a 55 percent working interest.
As a result of Hurricane Rita, the Company's East Cameron facility, located on the Gulf of Mexico shelf, was destroyed and the Company does not plan to rebuild the facility based on the economics of the field. During the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company's application to "reef in-place" a substantial portion of the East Cameron debris was denied. As a result, the Company currently estimates that it will cost approximately $119 million to reclaim and abandon the East Cameron facility. The estimate to reclaim and abandon the East Cameron facility is based upon an analysis and fee proposal prepared by a third-party engineering firm for the majority of the work and an estimate by the Company for the remainder. During 2006 and 2005, the Company recorded additional abandonment obligation charges of $75.0 million and $39.8 million, respectively, which amounts are included in hurricane activity, net in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. The operations to reclaim and abandon the East Cameron facilities began in January 2007 and the Company expects to incur a substantial portion of the costs in 2007. The Company expects that a substantial portion of the total estimated cost to reclaim and abandon the facility will be covered by insurance, including 100 percent of the debris removal costs. Consequently, the Company has recorded a $43.0 million insurance recovery receivable corresponding to the estimated debris removal costs.
During 2006, the Company announced its intent to divest of its Gulf of Mexico shelf properties; however, the Company has decided not to divest of these properties after its sales efforts in 2006 did not result in an acceptable offer.
Onshore Gulf Coast
South Texas. The Company has historically focused its drilling efforts in South Texas on the Pawnee field in the Edwards Trend in South Texas. The Edwards Trend is a tight gas limestone reservoir characterized by narrow bands of dry gas fields extending over 250 miles. The Company has acquired over 270,000 gross acres in the Edwards Trend. In addition to the operations in the Pawnee field, the Company has operations in the SW Kenedy and Washburn fields. Production depths in the Edwards Trend range from 9,500 feet to 14,000 feet.
During 2006, the Company drilled 16 exploration and appraisal wells targeting new field discoveries in the Edwards Trend area with 88 percent success, exceeding expectations and increasing proved gas reserves. Eight new wells have been added to production and six wells are awaiting pipelines or testing.
Having 3-D seismic data has significantly enhanced field development in the Pawnee field, allowing the Company to more accurately locate and orient the horizontal wells for optimal results. To expand its 3-D data coverage to include new discoveries and additional prospects, the Company plans to shoot and interpret approximately 850 square miles of new data. Multiple surveys are planned for 2007, with three already underway. While the new seismic work is being completed, the Company will direct most of its investments in the Edwards Trend to lower-risk, lower-cost development drilling on existing discoveries where 3-D data is currently available.
To revitalize existing horizontal wells in the area, the Company has initiated a pilot using more extensive fracture stimulation techniques. Horizontal wells in the field are completed open-hole and have traditionally been lightly stimulated with acid. Recently, the Company began performing a new fracture stimulation procedure on additional wells. The Company plans to
fracture stimulate additional horizontal wells, including newer producing wells, during 2007 to further evaluate the potential for a more extensive program. The Company also recently drilled a new horizontal well within a developed section of the Pawnee field with very successful results. The Company is currently evaluating additional infill drilling locations given this success. Plans are also in progress to expand the gas gathering infrastructure in the area to accommodate expected production growth and to maximize efficiency at the Company's Pawnee Plant.
Northern Louisiana and Mississippi. The Company has acquired significant acreage in Northern Louisiana and Mississippi. The Company has built an acreage position covering multiple plays in the Mississippi Salt Basin and now holds leases and option interests covering over 300,000 acres. Over the next two to three years, the Company expects to test a number of opportunities and to continue technical work that is currently underway.
One of the lower-risk opportunities in the portfolio is the redevelopment of the Bolton Gas Field in Hinds County, Mississippi. The first well of the project was drilled to 17,600 feet and penetrated multiple gas-bearing Cotton Valley sands. Currently, the well is being logged and completion design work is progressing. The location for the next well has been built and drilling will commence immediately after operations are completed on the current well. The Company plans to drill at least one more well in 2007 during this initial phase of the project. Facility construction is underway and first production is anticipated in mid-2007.
The Company has also concluded drilling operations on its first well testing the Norphlet formation in Mississippi. The well was drilled in Wayne County and, after extensive evaluation, has been plugged and abandoned. Future drilling plans will be determined after a technical analysis of the initial well is completed.
Alaska
Oooguruk. During 2002, the Company acquired a 70 percent working interest and operatorship in ten state leases on Alaska's North Slope. In connection therewith, the Company drilled three exploratory wells during 2003 to test a possible extension of the productive sands in the Kuparuk River field in the shallow waters offshore the North Slope of Alaska. Although all three of the wells found the sands filled with oil, they were too thin to be considered commercial on a stand-alone basis. However, the wells also encountered thick sections of oil-bearing Jurassic-aged sands, and the first well flowed at a rate of approximately 1,300 Bbls per day. In January 2004, the Company farmed-into a large acreage block to the southwest of the Company's discovery. In 2004, Pioneer completed an extensive technical and economic evaluation of the resource potential within this area. As a result of this evaluation, the Company performed front-end engineering and permitting activities during 2005 to further define the scope of the project. In early 2006, the Company announced that it had approved the development of the Oooguruk field in the project area.
The Company has constructed and armored the gravel drilling and production island site and installation of a sub-sea flowline and facilities are planned for 2007 to carry produced liquids to existing onshore processing facilities at the Kuparuk River Unit. The Company continues to procure equipment and services, fabricate equipment and modify a drilling rig for installation in 2007. Development drilling of approximately 40 wells on the project is expected to begin in late 2007 and be completed in 2009. First production is expected in 2008.
Cosmopolitan. During 2005, Pioneer announced that it entered into an agreement on the Cosmopolitan Unit in the Cook Inlet. Under this agreement, Pioneer earned a ten percent working interest in the unit from ConocoPhillips through a disproportionate spending arrangement for a 3-D seismic program undertaken during the fourth quarter of 2005. In June 2006, the Company exercised an option to acquire an additional 40 percent working interest in the Cosmopolitan Unit, bringing its working interest to 50 percent. Pioneer was elected operator of the Cosmopolitan Unit and plans to drill an appraisal well in 2007.
Onshore North Slope area. The Company holds a large acreage position in the onshore North Slope area of Alaska, primarily in the National Petroleum Reserve - - Alaska ("NPRA"). During the 2006-2007 drilling season, the Company plans to participate in the drilling of two non-operated exploratory wells in the NPRA.
International
The Company's international operations are located in Canada, offshore South Africa and in southern Tunisia. Additionally, the Company has exploration activities West Africa (Equatorial Guinea and Nigeria). As of December 31, 2006, approximately three percent and two percent of the Company's proved reserves were located in Canada and Africa, respectively.
The following tables summarize the Company's international development and exploration/extension drilling activities during 2006:
The following tables summarize by geographic area the Company's international costs incurred during 2006:
Argentina. During April 2006, the Company sold its Argentine assets for net proceeds of $669.6 million, resulting in a gain of $10.9 million. See Notes N and V of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for a description of the Argentine divestiture.
Canada. The Company's Canadian producing properties are located primarily in Alberta and British Columbia, Canada. The Company continues to exploit lower-risk opportunities identified in the Chinchaga field in northeast British Columbia and Alberta. Production from the Chinchaga field is relatively dry gas from formation depths averaging 3,400 feet.
The Company has commenced production and continued significant drilling, pipeline and facility activities in south-central Alberta targeting Horseshoe Canyon CBM in the greater Drumheller area. The greater Drumheller area produces gas, condensate and minor oil from Cretaceous to Devonian formations at depths ranging from 400 to 6,500 feet.
Also, in southern Alberta the Company has initiated a CBM pilot in the Mannville coals. Currently, six wells have been drilled and are in the dewatering stages to see if commercial quantities of gas can be achieved. The Company is also evaluating other completion techniques that could potentially accelerate the dewatering and increase production rates.
South Africa. The Company has agreements to explore for oil and gas offshore South Africa covering over 3.6 million acres along the southern coast in water depths generally less than 650 feet. The Sable oil field began producing in August 2003 and the majority of the gas from the field has been reinjected. The Company has a 40 percent working interest in the Sable field.
In 2005, the Company sanctioned the non-operated South Coast Gas development project, which includes the sub-sea tie-back of gas from the Sable field and six additional gas accumulations to an existing production facility on the F-A platform for transportation via existing pipelines to a gas-to liquids plant. Pioneer has a 45 percent working interest in the project. As part of sanctioning of the South Coast Gas project, the Company signed a six-year contract for the sale of all of its gas and condensate production from the project. The contract contains an obligation for the purchaser to take or pay for a total of 91.4 BCF and associated condensate if the anticipated deliverability estimates are achieved. The price for both gas and condensate is indexed to Brent oil sales. During 2006, the Company drilled four wells. During the first half of 2007, the Company plans to drill two additional development wells and complete the sub-sea well tie-backs to the existing production facilities on the F-A platform. First production is expected to commence in the second half of 2007.
Tunisia. The Company's Tunisian exploration permits can be separated into three categories: (i) two exploration permits (Jenein Nord and El Hamra) covering 1.6 million acres which the Company operates with a 100 percent working interest, (ii) the Anadarko-operated Anaguid exploration permit covering over 1.2 million acres in which the Company has a 45 percent working interest and (iii) the ENI-operated Adam Concession and Borj El Khadra exploration permit covering approximately 212,000 acres and 970,000 acres, respectively, in which the Company has a 20 percent and 40 percent working interest, respectively. All exploration permits and concessions are onshore southern Tunisia.
Production from the Adam Concession began in May 2003. During 2006, the Company continued its exploratory and appraisal activities on the Adam Concession by drilling four wells, of which three were successful, and completed a 3-D seismic survey. In 2006, the Company's interest in the Adam Concession was reduced from 24 percent to 20 percent in accordance with the terms of the concession. At December 31, 2006, the Company had an exploratory well in progress on each of the Adam Concession and Borj El Khadra block. Both wells were successful and are being added to production in the first quarter of 2007. The Company plans to drill an additional two to three wells in the concession during 2007.
In 2006, the Company acquired the remaining equity interest in the Jenein Nord block that it did not already own and became the operator of the block. During 2006, the Company completed a 3-D seismic survey on the Jenein Nord block. The Company drilled an exploratory well during 2006 that encountered multiple oil bearing zones and its commercial development is being analyzed. At December 31, 2006, the Company had an additional exploratory well in progress which was successful. The Company plans to drill one to two additional wells in the block during 2007. After the performance of the wells has been monitored for several months, additional exploration and appraisal wells may also be drilled.
Recently, the Company entered into a farm-out agreement of its interest in the El Hamra block pursuant to which it retained an economic interest in the block. In the Anaguid block, the Company continues to evaluate the results of its past drilling on the block and other blocks in the area to determine the go-forward plans on the block.
West Africa
The Company previously disclosed that it had retained a third party adviser to assist it in marketing its West Africa assets. No agreement to sell these assets has been reached to date, but the Company continues to consider interest from potential purchasers. As such, the capital budget includes amounts for expected drilling activities in West Africa during 2007. A first well is expected to spud during the second quarter of 2007, with drilling on a second well expected to commence in the second half of 2007, both in deepwater Nigeria. The timing of the drilling of a third well is uncertain and therefore no amounts have been budgeted for this prospect in 2007.
Equatorial Guinea. The Company owns a 50 percent working interest in Block H located in the northern Rio Muni Basin of Equatorial Guinea. The block covers an area of over 240,000 acres and water depth ranging from 300 meters in the southeastern corner of the block to over 1,800 meters near the western block boundary. Currently, as a result of new hydrocarbon law in Equatorial Guinea, the government in Equatorial Guinea is claiming an additional participation interest in the block. The Company is evaluating the effect of the claim with the operator of the block. The Company has identified several prospects on the block that are being evaluated for future drilling. In light of the government's claim, the timing of drilling a well is uncertain.
Nigeria. A partially-owned subsidiary of the Company joined Oranto Petroleum and Orandi Petroleum in an existing production sharing contract on Block 320 in deepwater Nigeria gaining exploration rights from the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation. The subsidiary, which holds a 51 percent interest in Block 320, is owned 59 percent by the Company and 41 percent by an unaffiliated third party. The Company completed a 3-D seismic survey covering the block in 2006. The Company currently expects to drill the first exploration well on the block in the second half of 2007.
The Company owns a 25 percent working interest in Devon Energy-operated Block 256 offshore Nigeria. During the first quarter of 2006, the Company participated in the drilling of the Pina 1-X well on Block 256 in the deepwater of Nigeria, which was unsuccessful. The partners plan to drill an additional well on Block 256 in the second quarter of 2007 to test a different type of play.
Selected Oil and Gas Information
The following tables set forth selected oil and gas information from continuing operations for the Company as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Because of normal production declines, increased or decreased drilling activities and the effects of acquisitions or divestitures, the historical information presented below should not be interpreted as being indicative of future results.
Production, price and cost data. The following tables set forth production, price and cost data with respect to the Company's properties for 2006, 2005 and 2004. These amounts represent the Company's historical results from continuing operations without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions, divestitures or drilling activity that occurred during the respective years. The production amounts will not agree to the reserve volume tables in the "Unaudited Supplementary Information" section included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" due to field fuel volumes and production from discontinued operations being included in the reserve volume tables.
PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA
PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA - (Continued)
PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA - (Continued)
Productive wells. The following table sets forth the number of productive oil and gas wells attributable to the Company's properties as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
PRODUCTIVE WELLS (a)
Leasehold acreage. The following table sets forth information about the Company's developed, undeveloped and royalty leasehold acreage as of December 31, 2006:
LEASEHOLD ACREAGE
The following table sets forth the expiration dates of the leases on the Company's gross and net undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2006:
Drilling activities. The following table sets forth the number of gross and net productive and dry hole wells in which the Company had an interest that were drilled during 2006, 2005 and 2004. This information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there was any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and the oil and gas reserves generated thereby or the costs to the Company of productive wells compared to the costs of dry holes.
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
The following table sets forth information about the Company's wells upon which drilling was in progress as of December 31, 2006:
ITEM 3.