ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The information included in this Report about the Company's oil, NGL and gas reserves as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 was based on reserve reports audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. ("NSA") for the Company's major properties in the United States, Argentina, Canada and South Africa and reserve reports prepared by the Company's engineers for all other properties. The reserve audits conducted by NSA in aggregate represented 88 percent and 87 percent of the Company's estimated proved quantities of reserves as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The information included in this Report about the Company's oil, NGL and gas reserves as of December 31, 2002 was, in part, based on reserve reports audited by independent petroleum engineers and reserve reports prepared by the Company's engineers. These reserve audits conducted represented 71 percent of the Company's estimated proved quantities of reserves as of December 31, 2002.
The Company did not provide estimates of total proved oil and gas reserves during the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 or 2002 to any federal authority or agency, other than the SEC. The Company's reserve estimates do not include any probable or possible reserves.
Proved Reserves
The Company's proved reserves totaled 1.0 billion BOE, 789.1 MMBOE and 736.7 MMBOE at December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, representing $6.6 billion, $4.6 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively, of Standardized Measure or $9.1 billion, $6.0 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively, on a pre-tax basis. The 30 percent and 45 percent increases in proved reserve volumes and Standardized Measure, respectively, during 2004 were primarily due to:
o Evergreen merger - 262.2 MMBOE, o other 2004 acquisitions - 16.0 MMBOE, o extensions and discoveries in: - Argentina - 25.8 MMBOE, - United States - 10.5 MMBOE, - Canada - 2.3 MMBOE and - Africa - .5 MMBOE, o negative revisions of 14.3 MMBOE primarily due to: - 16.6 MMBOE due to the cancellation of the Gabon project as a result of increasing costs, - negative well performance in the Portezuelo Oeste gas field in Argentina, offset by - increased commodity prices extending the estimated economic life of various properties, o production (including field fuel) during 2004 of 68.7 MMBOE and o divestitures of 1.1 MMBOE.
The seven percent and 11 percent increases in proved reserve volumes and Standardized Measure, respectively, during 2003 were primarily due to two core area acquisitions, discoveries in Gabon, the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Tunisia and positive reserve revisions due to increased commodity prices extending the estimated economic life of various properties, increased recoverable reserve estimates based on well performance and the addition of
reserves resulting from the Company's expanded development drilling program. Partially offsetting these reserve additions was 2003 production of 56.5 MMBOE, including field fuel.
On a BOE basis, 65 percent of the Company's total proved reserves at December 31, 2004 were proved developed reserves. Based on reserve information as of December 31, 2004, and using the Company's production information for the year then ended, the reserve-to-production ratio associated with the Company's proved reserves was 15 years on a BOE basis. The following table provides information regarding the Company's proved reserves and average daily sales volumes by geographic area as of and for the year ended December 31, 2004:
PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES AND AVERAGE DAILY SALES VOLUMES
The following table represents the estimated timing and cash flows of developing the Company's proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2004:
Description of Properties
As of December 31, 2004, the Company has production, development and/or exploration operations in the United States, Argentina, Canada, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, South Africa and Tunisia.
Domestic. The Company's domestic operations are located in the Permian Basin, Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountains, Alaska, Gulf of Mexico and onshore Gulf Coast areas of the United States. Approximately 75 percent of the Company's domestic proved reserves at December 31, 2004 are located in the Spraberry, Hugoton, West Panhandle and Raton fields. These mature fields generate substantial operating cash flow and some have a large portfolio of low risk
infill drilling opportunities. The cash flows generated from these fields provide funding for the Company's other development and exploration activities both domestically and internationally. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company expended $2.9 billion in domestic acquisition, exploration and development drilling activities, $2.5 billion of which related to the Evergreen merger. The Company has budgeted approximately $700 million for domestic exploration and development drilling expenditures for 2005.
Spraberry field. The Spraberry field was discovered in 1949 and encompasses eight counties in West Texas. The field is approximately 150 miles long and 75 miles wide at its widest point. The oil produced is West Texas Intermediate Sweet, and the gas produced is casinghead gas with an average energy content of 1,400 Btu. The oil and gas is produced primarily from three formations, the upper and lower Spraberry and the Dean, at depths ranging from 6,700 feet to 9,200 feet. Recently, the Company has been adding the Wolfcamp formation at depths ranging from 9,300 feet to 10,300 feet to selected wells with successful results. The center of the Spraberry field was unitized in the late 1950s and early 1960s by the major oil companies; however, until the late 1980s there was very limited development activity in the field. The Company believes the area offers excellent opportunities to enhance oil and gas reserves because of the numerous undeveloped infill drilling locations, many of which are reflected in the Company's proved undeveloped reserves, and the ability to reduce operating expenses through economies of scale.
During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company placed 104 Spraberry wells on production and had 16 wells in progress as of December 31, 2004. The Company plans to drill approximately 150 development wells in the Spraberry field during 2005.
Hugoton field. The Hugoton field in southwest Kansas is one of the largest producing gas fields in the continental United States. The gas is produced from the Chase and Council Grove formations at depths ranging from 2,700 feet to 3,000 feet. The Company's gas in the Hugoton field has an average energy content of 1,025 Btu. The Company's Hugoton properties are located on approximately 257,000 gross acres (237,000 net acres), covering approximately 400 square miles. The Company has working interests in approximately 1,200 wells in the Hugoton field, about 1,000 of which it operates, and partial royalty interests in approximately 500 wells. The Company owns substantially all of the gathering and processing facilities, primarily the Satanta plant, that service its production from the Hugoton field. Such ownership allows the Company to control the production, gathering, processing and sale of its gas and NGL production.
The Company's Hugoton operated wells are capable of producing approximately 90.5 MMcf of wet gas per day (i.e., gas production at the wellhead before processing or field fuel use and before reduction for royalties), although actual production in the Hugoton field is limited by allowables set by state regulators. The Company estimates that it and other major producers in the Hugoton field produced at or near capacity during the year ended December 31, 2004. During 2004, the Company placed 17 development wells on production and had one well in progress as of December 31, 2004. The plans for 2005 include drilling approximately 18 development wells and one potential new horizontal well.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the feasibility of infill drilling into the Council Grove Formation and may submit an application to the Kansas Corporation Commission to allow infill drilling. Such infill drilling may increase production from the Company's Hugoton properties. However, until an application has been submitted and approved, the Company will not reflect any of the infill drilling locations as proved undeveloped reserves. There can be no assurance that the application will be filed or approved, or as to the timing of such approval if granted.
West Panhandle field. The West Panhandle properties are located in the panhandle region of Texas where initial production commenced in 1918. These stable, long-lived reserves are attributable to the Red Cave, Brown Dolomite, Granite Wash and fractured Granite formations at depths no greater than 3,500 feet. The Company's gas in the West Panhandle field has an average energy content of 1,300 Btu and is produced from approximately 600 wells on more than 250,000 gross acres covering over 375 square miles. The Company controls 100 percent of the wells, production equipment, gathering system and gas processing plant for the field.
During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company placed 78 development wells on production and drilled three development wells and two extension wells which were determined to be unsuccessful. The West Panhandle field had 11 development wells in progress as of December 31, 2004. The Company plans to drill approximately 90 wells in the West Panhandle field during 2005.
Rocky Mountain area. The Company is one of the leading U.S. producers of coal bed methane ("CBM") with the Raton, Piceance and Uinta Basin assets acquired from Evergreen which are situated in Colorado and Utah. Exploration for CBM in the Raton Basin began in the late 1970s and continued through the late 1980s, with several companies drilling and testing more than 100 wells during this period. The absence of a pipeline to transport gas from the Raton Basin prevented full scale development until January 1995, when Colorado Interstate Gas Company completed the construction of the Picketwire lateral. The Company owns approximately 385,000 gross acres in the center of the Raton Basin with current production from coal seams of the Vermejo and Raton formations. The Company also owns approximately 171,000 acres covering highly prospective regions of the Piceance and Uinta Basins. Currently, production is established from various tight sandstone, coal and shale formations. The Company has approximately 1,300 wells in these fields with an average daily gross measured production of 191 MMcf. In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company placed 49 development wells on production and drilled two successful extension wells. Plans for 2005 include the drilling of approximately 300 development wells and 20 extension wells to establish additional prospective areas and reserves.
Gulf of Mexico area. In the Gulf of Mexico, the Company is focused on reserve and production growth through a portfolio of shelf and deepwater development projects, high-impact, higher-risk deepwater exploration drilling, shelf exploration drilling and exploitation opportunities inherent in the properties the Company currently has producing on the shelf.
In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Company has three major projects, all of which were producing or capable of producing at December 31, 2004:
o Canyon Express - The Canyon Express project is a joint development of three deepwater Gulf of Mexico gas discoveries, including the Company's TotalFinaElf-operated Aconcagua and Marathon-operated Camden Hills fields, where the Company holds 37.5 percent and 33.3 percent working interests, respectively. The Company participated in the discovery of the Aconcagua gas field in 1999 during the early stages of building its exploration program and later added Camden Hills to its portfolio to enhance its ownership in the project. The Canyon Express project was approved for development in June 2000 and reached first production in September 2002. The Canyon Express gathering system is the first in the area and provides the Company and its partners with the opportunity to collect gathering and handling revenues from the use of the system by any future discoveries in the area. The Company has plans to drill and complete an additional development well at Aconcagua during 2005.
o Falcon Corridor - The Falcon Corridor project started with the Company's Falcon field discovery during 2001, followed by the 2003 Harrier, Raptor and Tomahawk discoveries. The Company owned a 45 percent working interest in the initial Falcon discovery and surrounding areas. During 2002, the Company purchased an additional 30 percent working interest in the project and became the operator. During 2003, the Company acquired the remaining 25 percent working interest in the project and established first Falcon production during March 2003.
In the first quarter of 2003, the Company drilled its Harrier discovery, which was completed as a one-well subsea tie-back to the Falcon field facilities and placed on production in January 2004. In addition, during the third quarter of 2003, the Company successfully drilled the Tomahawk and Raptor prospects, which were also developed as single-well subsea tie-backs to the Falcon field facilities and placed on production in June 2004. To accommodate the incremental production from Harrier, Tomahawk and Raptor, as well as potential throughput associated with additional planned exploration, an additional parallel pipeline connecting the Falcon field to the Falcon Nest platform on the Gulf of Mexico shelf was added, doubling its capacity. In early September 2004, the Company shut in production from the Harrier field as a result of early water encroachment. The Company initiated a sidetrack well in late September to access an adjacent fault block in the field which was successful, encountering over 400 feet of gas-bearing sand. In order to capture the maximum reserves from the Raptor and Tomahawk fields, the Company delayed production from the Harrier sidetrack until the Tomahawk field was fully depleted in December 2004. Once the Harrier sidetrack was placed on production, the Falcon field production rate was reduced to continue to allow Raptor to fully deplete. Raptor is anticipated to be depleted during the first half of 2005, at which time production from Falcon will be increased. The Company operates all of the producing fields in the
Falcon Corridor. Sidetrack operations are being evaluated for the Raptor field in 2005 to further increase reserve recovery. In addition, the Company plans to drill one or two Falcon Corridor exploration prospects during the first half of 2005.
o Devils Tower Area - The Dominion-operated Devils Tower development project was sanctioned in 2001 as a spar development project with the owners leasing a spar from a third party for the life of the field. The spar has slots for eight dry tree wells and up to four subsea tie-back risers and is capable of handling 60 MBbls of oil per day and 60 MMcf of gas per day. Three Devils Tower wells were completed and placed on production prior to being shut-in during mid-September due to Hurricane Ivan. The Devils Tower spar sustained significant damage during Hurricane Ivan, and production from the three wells did not resume until late October 2004. A fourth well began producing at the end of November. The damage to the platform rig sustained during Hurricane Ivan delayed completion activities related to the four additional wells previously drilled to develop the field. Rig repairs took 120 days, and completion activities for continued field development began late in January 2005. Pioneer maintains business interruption insurance and has filed a claim related to four wells that were expected to be completed but were delayed due to the effects of the hurricane. In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company recorded approximately $7.5 million of estimated business interruption recovery related to its estimated 2004 production loss and should have additional insurance recoveries associated with 2005 operational impact from Hurricane Ivan. In addition, three subsea tie-back wells in the Goldfinger and Triton satellite discoveries in the Devils Tower area are expected to be jointly tied back to the Devils Tower spar with first production expected in late 2005. Production is expected to continue to increase as additional wells are individually completed from the spar over the next six months. The Company holds a 25 percent working interest in each of the above projects.
In addition to the development and exploration projects in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico described above, the Company participated in three subsalt deepwater prospects during the first half of 2004, of which one well was successful and two were noncommercial. A sidetrack well in the Dominion-operated Thunder Hawk discovery at Mississippi Canyon Block 734 encountered in excess of 300 feet of net oil pay in two high-quality reservoir zones. Murphy Exploration and Production Company is now the operator and has commenced drilling an additional well to further delineate the field. The Company owns a 12.5 percent working interest in the discovery. The Company also anticipates drilling an appraisal well during 2005 on its 2002 Ozona Deep discovery.
During January 2003, the Company announced a joint exploration agreement with Woodside Energy (USA), Inc. ("Woodside"), a subsidiary of Woodside Energy Ltd. of Australia, for a two-year drilling program over the shallow-water Texas shelf region of the Gulf of Mexico. Under the agreement, Woodside acquired a 50 percent working interest in 47 offshore exploration blocks operated by the Company. The agreement covers eight prospects and 19 leads and included five exploratory wells originally scheduled to be drilled in 2003 and three in 2004. Most of the wells to be drilled under the agreement target gas plays below 15,000 feet. The first three wells under this joint agreement were unsuccessful. The fourth well, Midway, encountered 30 feet of net gas pay and is expected to be tied back to an existing production platform with first production anticipated during the second quarter of 2005. Three other intervals with an additional 60 feet of gas bearing sands were also encountered and will require additional analysis to determine future commercial potential. The Company has a 37.5 percent working interest in this well. The fifth well that was originally scheduled to be drilled in 2003 and the three wells originally scheduled to be drilled in 2004 under the agreement, which has been extended for one additional year, were mutually agreed to be deferred until more technical work can be performed on the prospects by both companies. Additionally, the Company and Woodside are evaluating shallower gas prospects on the Gulf of Mexico shelf for possible inclusion in the 2005 drilling program.
Onshore Gulf Coast area. The Company has focused its drilling efforts in this area on the Pawnee field in the Edwards Reef trend in South Texas. The Company placed 10 development wells and two extension wells on production at Pawnee during 2004 and had two development wells and one extension well in progress at year end. The Company plans to drill approximately 12 wells in this area during 2005.
Alaska area. The Company spent $34.7 million of acquisition and seismic capital during 2004 to add to its leasehold position and expand its North Slope seismic data coverage. In June 2004, Pioneer announced that it agreed to a joint exploration program in the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska ("NPR-A") located on the North Slope with ConocoPhillips and Anadarko Petroleum Corporation. At the federal lease sale held in June 2004, P ioneer was the high co-bidder on 63
tracts covering approximately 717,000 acres in the NPR-A Northwest Planning Area. Pioneer will participate with a 20 percent to 30 percent working interest in the acreage operated by ConocoPhillips. Pioneer also acquired a 20 percent interest in 167,000 total acres in the adjacent NPR-A Northeast Planning Area and in federal offshore blocks, including seismic and geologic data. In December 2004, Pioneer signed an exploration agreement with ConocoPhillips and Anadarko acquiring a 20 percent interest in approximately 452,000 additional acres and gaining the rights to extensive seismic and geologic data in the NPR-A Northeast Planning Area. Pioneer expects to participate in a multi-year exploration program within NPR-A and anticipates that two exploration wells will be drilled during the first half of 2005.
During the first quarter of 2005, Pioneer will also participate with a 40 percent working interest in an exploration well to evaluate the Kerr-McGee Corporation - Tuvaaq prospect. In addition, Pioneer holds a 50 percent working interest in a 130,000-acre position adjacent to and south of the giant Prudhoe Bay and Kuparuk Units and has a new 3-D seismic survey underway for completion during the first quarter of 2005.
During 2002, the Company acquired a 70 percent working interest and operatorship in ten state leases on Alaska's North Slope. Associated therewith, the Company drilled three exploratory wells during 2003 to test a possible extension of the productive sands in the Kuparuk River field into the shallow waters offshore. Although all three of the wells found the sands filled with oil, they were too thin to be considered commercial on a stand-alone basis. However, the wells also encountered thick sections of oil-bearing Jurassic-aged sands, and the first well flowed at a rate of approximately 1,300 barrels per day. In January 2004, the Company farmed-into a large acreage block to the southwest of the Company's discovery. In the fourth quarter of 2004, Pioneer completed an extensive technical and economic evaluation of the resource potential within this area. As a result of this evaluation, the Company is performing front-end engineering and permitting activities to further define the scope of the project. If the additional work confirms favorable development economics, Pioneer will seek to obtain regulatory approval to develop the field in 2006 targeting first oil in 2008.
International. The Company's international operations are located in the Neuquen and Austral Basins areas of Argentina, the Chinchaga, Martin Creek, Lookout Butte and Carbon areas of Canada, the Sable oil field offshore South Africa and in southern Tunisia. Additionally, the Company has other development and exploration activities in the shallow waters offshore South Africa and oil development and exploration activities in Tunisia. As of December 31, 2004, approximately 12 percent, two percent and one percent of the Company's proved reserves are located in Argentina, Canada and Africa, respectively.
Argentina. The Company's Argentine production during the year ended December 31, 2004 averaged 30.4 MBOE per day, or approximately 17 percent of the Company's equivalent production. The Company's operated production in Argentina is concentrated in the Neuquen Basin which is located about 925 miles southwest of Buenos Aires and to the east of the Andes Mountains. Oil and gas are produced primarily from the Al Norte de la Dorsal, the Al Sur de la Dorsal, the Dadin, the Loma Negra - Ni, the Dos Hermanas, the Anticlinal Campamento and the Estacion Fernandez Oro blocks, each of which the Company has a 100 percent working interest. Most of the gas produced from these blocks is processed in the Company's Loma Negra gas processing plant. The Company also operates and has a 50 percent working interest in the Lago Fuego field which is located in Tierra del Fuego, an island in the extreme southern portion of Argentina, approximately 1,500 miles south of Buenos Aires.
Most of the Company's non-operated production in Argentina is located in Tierra del Fuego where oil, gas and NGLs are produced from six separate fields in which the Company has a 35 percent working interest. The Company also has a 14.4 percent working interest in the Confluencia field which is located in the Neuquen Basin.
During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company expended $102.5 million on Argentine development and exploration activities. The Company drilled 44 development wells and 31 extension/exploratory wells, of which 43 development wells and 21 extension/exploratory wells were successful. During 2004, the Company shot seismic covering approximately 330,000 acres. The Company plans to be more active in Argentina in 2005 with $133 million budgeted for oil and gas development and exploration activities.
Canada. The Company's Canadian producing properties are located primarily in Alberta and British Columbia, Canada. Production during the year ended December 31, 2004 averaged 8.0 MBOE per day, or approximately four percent of the Company's equivalent production. The Company continues to focus its traditional conventional development, exploration and acquisition activities in
the core areas of northeast British Columbia and southern Alberta while expanding these activities to include a CBM focus in southern Alberta. The Canadian assets are geographically concentrated, predominately shallow gas and primarily operated by the Company in the following areas: Chinchaga, Martin Creek, Lookout Butte and Carbon.
Production from the Chinchaga area of northeast British Columbia is relatively dry gas from formation depths averaging 3,400 feet. In the Martin Creek area of British Columbia the production is relatively dry gas from various reservoirs ranging from 3,700 to 4,300 feet. The Lookout Butte area in southwest Alberta produces gas and condensate from the Mississippian Turner Valley formation at approximately 12,000 feet. The Carbon area in south central Alberta produces gas, CBM, condensate and minor oil from Cretaceous to Devonian formations at depths ranging from 400 to 6,500 feet.
During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company expended $120.6 million (approximately $56.4 million associated with the Evergreen merger) on Canadian exploration, development and acquisition activities. The Company drilled three development wells and 51 exploratory/extension wells, primarily in the Chinchaga, Martin Creek and Carbon areas, of which all three developments wells and 27 exploratory/extension wells were successful. The majority of these wells were drilled in the Chinchaga and Martin Creek areas during the first quarter of 2004 as these areas are only accessible for drilling during the winter months. The remainder of these wells were drilled during the summer and fall in the Carbon area that is accessible for operations throughout the year. The Company plans to spend approximately $60 million on oil, gas and CBM development and exploration opportunities in Canada during 2005.
The Company previously announced its intention to divest of its Martin Creek and Lookout Butte assets in 2005. The expectation is that sales proceeds will exceed $100 million based on today's commodity price environment, however, no assurance can be given that purchasers will bid for these assets at prices that are acceptable to the Company.
Africa. In Africa, the Company has entered into agreements to explore for oil and gas in South Africa, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon and Tunisia. The amended South African agreements cover over five million acres along the southern coast of South Africa, generally in water depths less than 650 feet. The Gabon agreement covers 313,937 acres off the coast of Gabon, generally in water depths less than 100 feet. The Tunisian agreements can be separated into three categories: (i) three permits covering 2.9 million acres which the Company operates with an average 55 percent working interest, (ii) the Anadarko-operated Anaguid and Jenein Nord permits covering over 1.5 million acres in which the Company has a 45 percent working interest and (iii) the ENI-operated Adam Concession and Borj El Khadra permit covering 212,420 acres and 969,755 acres, respectively, in which the Company has a 28 percent and 40 percent working interest, respectively. All permits are onshore southern Tunisia. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company expended $74.9 million of acquisition, development and exploration drilling and seismic capital in South Africa, Gabon, Equatorial Guinea, Tunisia and other prospective areas.
South Africa. The Company spent $9.5 million of capital associated with its Petro SA-operated Sable oil field. The Sable oil field began producing in August 2003. The Company has a 40 percent working interest in the Sable field. In 2005, the Company currently plans to spend approximately $1 million in South Africa for production enhancement opportunities at Sable.
In 2005, the Company expects its South African gas project to be sanctioned by all parties. If approved, this project will allow the Company to sell its gas from the Sable field and provide commercialization opportunities for previous gas discoveries.
Equatorial Guinea. The Company spent $13.0 million of acquisition and drilling capital during 2004 to acquire a 50 percent working interest in 244,881 acres of Block H offshore Equatorial Guinea. The Bravo 1 well was drilled in June 2004 and determined to be noncommercial. The Company has several other prospects on the block that are being evaluated for future drilling, one of which is expected to be drilled during 2005.
Gabon. The Company spent $20.7 million of capital during 2004 to drill five exploration wells, one of which was initially evaluated as successful in extending the planned development area to the south. The remaining four wells were unsuccessful. Despite the successful extension well, in October 2004, the Company canceled the development of the Olowi field due to a substantial increase in projected development costs which resulted in the project not
offering competitive returns. The Company's current Gabonese permit expires in April 2005. The Company has verbally requested an extension to the permit to allow more time for the Company to determine the best manner to exit Gabon, however, no assurance can be given that such extension will be granted. In 2004, the Company recognized an impairment charge of approximately $39.7 million.
Tunisia. The Company spent $17.0 million of acquisition, drilling and seismic capital during the year ended December 31, 2004 primarily to drill one successful development well in its Adam oil field, one successful development well in its Hawa oil field and one successful exploratory well in its Dalia oil field, all within the ENI-operated Adam Concession. Production from the Adam Concession began in May 2003. The capital budget for Tunisia in 2005 of approximately $24 million includes an exploration well in the Adam concession, one exploration well on the Company-operated El Hamra permit and two appraisal wells on the Anaguid permit.
Selected Oil and Gas Information
The following tables set forth selected oil and gas information for the Company as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Because of normal production declines, increased or decreased drilling activities and the effects of past and future acquisitions or divestitures, the historical information presented below should not be interpreted as being indicative of future results.
Production, price and cost data. The following table sets forth production, price and cost data with respect to the Company's properties for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:
PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA
Productive wells. The following table sets forth the number of productive oil and gas wells attributable to the Company's properties as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:
PRODUCTIVE WELLS (a)
Leasehold acreage. The following table sets forth information about the Company's developed, undeveloped and royalty leasehold acreage as of December 31, 2004:
LEASEHOLD ACREAGE
The following table sets forth the expiration dates of the leases on the Company's gross and net undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2004:
Drilling activities. The following table sets forth the number of gross and net productive and dry hole wells in which the Company had an interest that were drilled during the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. This information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there was any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and the oil and gas reserves generated thereby or the costs to the Company of productive wells compared to the costs of dry holes.
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
The following table sets forth information about the Company's wells upon which drilling was in progress as of December 31, 2004:
ITEM 3.