ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The information included in this Report about the Company's proved oil and gas reserves at December 31, 1998, including estimated quantities and PV 10 value, is based on reserve reports prepared by the Company's engineers.
Numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond the Company's control. This Report contains estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves and the related future net revenues, which are based on various assumptions, including those prescribed by the SEC. Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses, geologic success and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates and could materially affect the estimated quantities and related PV 10 value of proved reserves set forth in this Report. In addition, the Company's reserves may be subject to downward or upward revisions based on production performance, purchases or sales of properties, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors. Therefore, estimates of the PV 10 value of proved reserves contained in this Report should not be construed as estimates of the current market value of the Company's proved reserves.
PV 10 value is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. It requires the use of oil and gas prices prevailing as of the date of computation. Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions. PV 10 values as of any date are not necessarily indicative of future results of operations. Accordingly, estimates of future net revenues in this Report may be materially different from the net revenues that are ultimately received.
The Company did not provide estimates of total proved oil and gas reserves during 1998 to any federal authority or agency, other than the SEC.
PROVED RESERVES
The Company's proved reserves totaled 676.8 million BOE at December 31, 1998, 761.6 million BOE at December 31, 1997 and 302.2 million BOE at December 31, 1996, representing $1.6 billion, $3.1 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, in PV 10 value. Downward revisions of reserve quantities as a result of the decline in commodity prices was the primary reason for the decrease in reserves and PV 10 value during 1998.
On a BOE basis, 90 percent of the Company's total proved reserves at December 31, 1998 are proved developed reserves. Based on reserve information as of December 31, 1998 and using the Company's reserve report production information for 1999, the reserve-to-production ratio associated with the Company's proved reserves is 11 years on a BOE basis. The following table provides information regarding the Company's proved reserves by geographic area as of and for the year ended December 31, 1998.
PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES
- ---------------
(a) The 1998 average daily production is calculated using a 365-day year and without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions, divestitures or drilling activity that occurred during the year.
RESERVE REPLACEMENT
For the first time in almost a decade, the Company was unable to replace its annual production volumes with proved reserves of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, stated on an energy equivalent basis. During 1998, the Company's proved reserves declined 84.8 million BOE including 62.9 million BOE related to production, 31.2 million BOE related to downward reserve revisions and 2.5 million BOE related to asset sales. Discoveries and extensions of 11.8 million BOE partially offset these reductions. Reserve revisions result from several factors including changes in existing estimates of quantities available for production and changes in estimates of quantities which are economical to produce under current pricing conditions. The downward revisions in 1998 relate primarily to the decline in commodity prices during 1998. The Company's reserves as of December 31, 1998 were estimated using a price of $10.09 per Bbl of oil, $6.81 per Bbl of NGLs and $1.64 per Mcf of gas. Should prices increase or decline in future periods, reserves may be revised upward or downward for quantities which may be economical or uneconomical to produce at higher or lower prices, respectively.
The Company's 1998 reserve replacement rate on a BOE basis was negative due to the severe decline in commodity prices during 1998. Previous reserve replacement performance rates were 1,450 percent in 1997 (1,375 percent for oil and 1,528 percent for gas) and 314 percent in 1996 (398 percent for oil and 239 percent for gas). For the three-year period ended December 31, 1998, the average reserve replacement rate was 465 percent, as compared to a three-year average replacement rate of 769 percent in 1997 and 377 percent in 1996. During 1998, the reserve replacement rate was primarily influenced by the decline in commodity prices which resulted in significant downward reserve revisions. During 1997, the Company's reserve replacement rate was primarily the product of its acquisition activities. In 1996, the reserve replacement rate was influenced primarily by exploration and development activities.
FINDING COST
The Company's acquisition and finding cost per BOE for 1998 was negative as compared to the 1997 and 1996 acquisition and finding costs of $8.23 and $3.10 per BOE, respectively. The negative rate in 1998 was a result of downward reserve revisions related to the decline in commodity prices during 1998. The rate in 1997 was a result of the fair value associated with Mesa's and Chauvco's long-lived, low production cost reserves. The average acquisition and finding cost for the three-year period from 1996 to 1998 was $8.65 per BOE representing a 23 percent increase from the 1997 three-year average rate of $7.04.
OIL AND GAS MIX
The Company seeks to maintain a strategic balance between oil and natural gas reserves and production. While the Company's reserve and production mix may vary somewhat on a short-term basis as the Company takes advantage of market conditions and specific acquisition and development opportunities, management believes that a relative mix of approximately 50 percent oil and NGLs and 50 percent natural gas is in the best long-term interests of the Company and its stockholders. The Company's reserve mix was 45 percent oil and NGLs and 55 percent gas at December 31, 1998, and its production mix was 51 percent oil and NGLs and 49 percent gas during 1998.
DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
As of December 31, 1998, the Company has operations in the United States, Argentina and Canada, and to a lesser extent, exploration opportunities in Africa.
DOMESTIC. The Company's domestic operations are principally located in the Gulf Coast, Mid Continent and Permian Basin areas. In the Gulf Coast area, the Company is focused on reserve and production growth through a balanced portfolio of development and exploration activities. To accomplish this, the Company has devoted most of its domestic exploration efforts to this area, as well as its investment in and utilization of 3-D seismic technology. During 1998, the Company expended $167 million to drill 38 development and eight exploratory wells and more importantly, significantly enhanced its library of seismic data for future exploration activities.
During 1999, the Company's exploration drilling will be concentrated in the Gulf of Mexico and the onshore Gulf Coast area. The Company will participate in the drilling of one or two wells in its deep-water Mississippi Canyon Block 305. The Company has a 25 percent working interest (21.875 percent net revenue interest) in the block; however, Pioneer is responsible for 50 percent of the before casing point drilling costs in the first exploratory well drilled. Drilling began on the first well in this block during January 1999. The well is scheduled for preliminary evaluations in March. Two additional wells are planned for 1999 onshore in the Gulf Coast area or in East Texas where several shallower exploration prospects have been defined by the Company's 3-D database.
The Mid Continent area includes properties located in Kansas, the Texas Panhandle, Oklahoma and Arkansas. By far, the largest of these assets is the Company's Hugoton field followed by the West Panhandle field, both acquired from Mesa in August 1997. These two fields combined account for approximately $548 million of the Company's $1.6 billion of PV 10 reserve value at December 31, 1998. During 1998, the Company spent approximately $26 million on exploratory and development drilling in the Mid Continent area. This activity included the drilling of 89 development wells and two exploratory wells.
Hugoton field. The Hugoton field in southwest Kansas is one of the largest producing gas fields in the continental United States. The Company's Hugoton properties represent approximately 13 percent of the proved reserves in the field and are located on over 237,000 net acres, covering approximately 400 square miles. The Company has working interest in approximately 1,200 wells in the Hugoton field, almost 1,000 of which it operates, and royalty interest in approximately 750 wells. The Company owns substantially all of the gathering and processing facilities, primarily the Satanta plant, that service its production from the Hugoton field. Such ownership allows the Company to control the production, gathering, processing and sale of its gas and associated NGLs.
Production in the Hugoton field is subject to allowables set by state regulators, but the Company's Hugoton operated properties are capable of producing approximately 150 MMcf of wet gas per day (i.e., gas production at the wellhead before processing and before reduction for royalties). The Company estimates that it and other major producers in the Hugoton field produced at or near capacity in 1998.
The Company is considering plans to submit an application to the Kansas Corporation Commission (the "KCC") to allow infill drilling into the Council Grove Formation. The Company believes that such infill drilling could increase production from its Hugoton properties. There can be no assurance that the application will be approved or as to the timing of receipt of such approval if such approval is obtained.
West Panhandle field. The West Panhandle properties are located in the panhandle region of Texas where initial production commenced in 1918. These stable, long-lived reserves are attributable to the Red Cave, Brown Dolomite, Granite Wash and fractured Granite formations at depths no greater than 3,500 feet. The Company's natural gas in the West Panhandle field is produced from approximately 600 wells on more than 241,000 gross (185,000 net) acres covering over 375 square miles. The Company's wellhead gas produced from the West Panhandle field contains a high quantity of NGLs, yielding relatively greater NGL volumes than realized from many other natural gas fields. The Company operates the wells and production equipment and Colorado Interstate Gas Company owns and operates the gathering system.
The production from the West Panhandle field is processed through the Company-owned Fain natural gas processing plant. In February 1997, the Company initiated a project to add nitrogen rejection capabilities at the Fain Plant. This project, which was completed in mid-1998, allows the Company to recover a greater percentage of the helium in the processed gas; increase NGL recoveries; and upgrade residue quality improving marketing flexibility.
As of December 31, 1998, the Company's West Panhandle properties represented approximately 13 percent of the Company's equivalent proved reserves and approximately nine percent of the present value of estimated future net cash flows, determined in accordance with SEC guidelines. The Company has identified over 70 locations that have additional production potential that the Company plans to redrill in the next few years.
Since the early 1960's, the Company has been involved in acquisition and development activities in fields in the Permian Basin area which includes all of West Texas and Southeastern New Mexico. Of the $411 million of PV 10 value contained in the properties in the Permian Basin area, the Spraberry field accounts for $294 million. Along with the Spraberry field, the Iatan field in Mitchell County, Texas, the Dagger Draw field in Eddy County, New Mexico and the Ozona field in Crockett and Sutton Counties of Texas are significant to the Company's Permian Basin area's operations in terms of existing production, production and reserve growth, and identification of additional drilling locations.
The Company will continue to focus on the development of the existing properties utilizing waterflood procedures and secondary recovery technologies as these efforts have consistently resulted in increased production, reserve additions due to development drilling, and new drilling locations. In addition, all of the fields in this operational group have been screened for feasibility for carbon dioxide (CO(2)) flood implementation. During 1998, the Company expended $113 million to drill 271 development and 13 exploratory wells. Wells being drilled at the end of 1998 are being shut-in temporarily in anticipation of future increases in oil prices. When this takes place, the Company will be in a position to increase its oil production rather quickly. In addition, the Company anticipates spending $9 million in 1999 in the Permian Basin area to drill approximately 50 wells which will also be shut-in temporarily pending future increases in oil prices. Development activities will account for the majority of these planned expenditures.
Spraberry field. The Spraberry field was discovered in 1949 and encompasses eight counties in West Texas. The field is approximately 150 miles long and 75 miles wide at its widest point. The oil produced is West Texas Intermediate Sweet, and the gas produced is casinghead gas with an average Btu content of 1,400 Btu per Mcf. The oil and gas is produced from three formations, the upper and lower Spraberry and the Dean, at depths ranging from 6,700 feet to 9,200 feet. The center of the Spraberry field was unitized in the late 1950's and early 1960's by the major oil companies; however, until the late 1980's there was very limited development activity in the field. Since 1989, the Company has focused acquisition and development drilling activities in the unitized portion of the Spraberry field due to the dormant condition of the properties and the high net revenue interests available. The Company believes the area offers excellent opportunities to enhance oil and gas reserves because of the hundreds of undeveloped infill drilling locations and the ability to reduce operating expenses through economies of scale. The Company initiated an aggressive optimization and automation cost cutting program in 1998, which reduced operating expenses. This program will continue in 1999 and the Company believes that an additional 10 percent reduction can be achieved. In February 1997, the Texas Railroad Commission (which regulates oil and gas production) entered a favorable order on the
Company's application to allow administrative approval of uncontested applications to increase the density of drilling in the Spraberry field from one well per 80 acres to one well per 40 acres.
INTERNATIONAL. The acquisition of Chauvco provided the Company with a significant presence in Argentina and Canada, representing 14 percent and 11 percent, respectively, of the Company's PV 10 value at December 31, 1998. The Company's Argentine properties are primarily located in the Tierra del Fuego and Neuquen basins. The Company's share of Argentine production during 1998 averaged 21.3 MBOE's per day. The Tierra del Fuego production concession is located in the extreme southern portion of Argentina, approximately 1,500 miles south of the country's capital, Buenos Aires. Crude oil, natural gas, condensate and NGLs are produced from six separate fields in which the Company has a 35 percent working interest. Recent expansion of gas processing facilities and completed pipeline connections at Tierra del Fuego will allow handling of increased production volumes committed for delivery under a gas contract to a petrochemical plant in Chile. Natural gas deliveries under the contract to the methanol plant in Chile averaged 50 MMcf per day during 1998.
The Company's operated production in Argentina is concentrated in the Neuquen Basin which is located about 925 miles southwest of the country's capital city and just to the east of the Andes Mountains. Crude oil and natural gas are produced from the Loma Negra/NI Block, the Dadin Block, the Al Norte de la Dorsal Block and the Neuquen del Medio Block in which the Company has a 100 percent working interest. A commercial discovery was made in the newly acquired Bajo Baguales Block in which the Company has a 65 percent interest.
During 1998, the Company drilled 46 development wells and 22 exploratory wells in Argentina. The Company plans to spend $24 million on gas development opportunities in Argentina during 1999.
The Company's Canadian producing properties are primarily located in Alberta and British Columbia, Canada in the following areas: Chinchaga, Martin Creek, Thompson Lake/Alliance, Rycroft, Lookout Butte and David. During 1998, these properties produced an average of 18.7 MBOE's per day, net to the Company's interest. In addition, during 1998 the Company drilled 60 development wells and 14 exploratory wells primarily in Chinchaga and Martin Creek areas. These properties currently include 29 new development well locations that are scheduled to be drilled in 1999.
In addition to the proved producing assets of Chauvco and Mesa, the Company acquired a substantial inventory of unproved oil and gas properties during 1997 which will provide the Company with many exploration opportunities with the potential for significant reserve additions. Although the acquisition of a portfolio of unproved properties represents an exciting challenge to the Company's team of engineers, geologists and geophysicists, such opportunities are not without risk. United States generally accepted accounting principles require periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis in comparison to their estimated value. During 1998, the Company reduced the carrying value of its unproved oil and gas properties by $147.3 million. See Note M of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data". An unproved property may be impaired if the Company does not intend to drill the prospect as a result of downward revisions to potential proved reserves, if the results of exploration or the Company's outlook for future commodity prices indicate that the potential reserves are not sufficient to generate net cash flows to recover the investment required by the project, or if the Company intends to sell the property for less than its carrying value. There can be no assurance that economic reserves will be determined to exist for such projects in the future.
On a smaller scale, the Company has entered into agreements to explore in the African nations of South Africa and Gabon. The South African agreements cover over 13 million acres along the southern coast of South Africa, generally in water depths less than 650 feet. During 1998, the Company participated in the drilling of five wells in South Africa. Of the five wells drilled, two discovered hydrocarbons; however, future activities associated with these discoveries is under evaluation given the current economic environment of the oil and gas industry. In 1998, the Company incurred $16.0 million of drilling and seismic costs in South Africa. During 1999, the Company has targeted both South Africa and Gabon for comprehensive studies that will focus on analysis, ranking and timing of prospects. No new wells are planned during 1999 in South Africa
while the Company evaluates farmout and other risk sharing opportunities. Seismic studies are currently planned to commence in Gabon during late 1999 or early 2000.
SELECTED OIL AND GAS INFORMATION
The following tables set forth selected oil and gas information for the Company as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996. Because of normal production declines, increased or decreased drilling activities and the effects of future acquisitions or divestitures, the historical information presented below should not be interpreted as indicative of future results.
PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA. The following table sets forth production, price and cost data with respect to the Company's properties for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.
PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA(a)
- ---------------
(a) These amounts are calculated without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions, divestitures or drilling activity that occurred during the respective years.
(b) Represents production associated with the Company's Australian subsidiaries prior to their divestiture in 1996.
PRODUCTIVE WELLS. The following table sets forth the number of productive oil and gas wells attributable to the Company's properties as of December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.
PRODUCTIVE WELLS(A)
- ---------------
(a) Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including shut-in wells. One or more completions in the same well bore are counted as one well. Any well in which one of the multiple completions is an oil completion is classified as an oil well. As of December 31, 1998, the Company owned interests in 181 wells containing multiple completions.
LEASEHOLD ACREAGE. The following table sets forth information about the Company's developed, undeveloped and royalty leasehold acreage as of December 31, 1998.
LEASEHOLD ACREAGE
DRILLING ACTIVITIES. The following table sets forth the number of gross and net productive and dry wells in which the Company had an interest that were drilled and completed during the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996. This information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and the oil and gas reserves generated thereby or the costs to the Company of productive wells compared to the costs of dry wells.
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
- ---------------
(a) Represents those wells that were successfully completed as productive wells.
(b) The 1996 Australian amounts include only three months of activity related to the Company's Australian properties prior to their sale in March 1996.
The following table sets forth information about the Company's wells that were in progress at December 31, 1998.
ITEM 3.