ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Reserve Rule Changes
During 2009, the SEC issued its final rule on the modernization of oil and gas reporting (the “Reserve Ruling”) and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2010-03 (“ASU 2010-03”) “Extractive Industries - Oil and Gas,” which aligned the estimation and disclosure requirements of FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 932 with the Reserve Ruling. The Reserve Ruling and ASU 2010-03 became effective for Annual Reports on Form 10-K for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009. The key provisions of the Reserve Ruling and ASU 2010-03 are as follows:
•
Expanding the definition of oil- and gas-producing activities to include the extraction of saleable hydrocarbons, in the solid, liquid or gaseous state, from oil sands, coalbeds or other nonrenewable natural resources that are intended to be upgraded into synthetic oil or gas, and activities undertaken with a view to such extraction;
•
Amending the definition of proved oil and gas reserves to require the use of an average of the first-day-of-the-month commodity prices during the 12-month period ending on the balance sheet date rather than period-end commodity prices;
•
Adding to and amending other definitions used in estimating proved oil and gas reserves, such as “reliable technology” and “reasonable certainty”;
•
Broadening the types of technology that a reporter may use to establish reserves estimates and categories; and
•
Changing disclosure requirements and providing formats for tabular reserve disclosures.
Reserve Estimation Procedures and Audits
The information included in this Report about the Company’s proved reserves as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, which were located in the United States, South Africa and Tunisia, is based on evaluations prepared by (i) the Company’s engineers and audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), with respect to the Company’s major properties, and (ii) the Company’s engineers, with respect to all other properties. The Company has no oil and gas reserves from non-traditional sources. Additionally, the Company does not provide optional disclosure of probable or possible reserves. See Notes B and U of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for information regarding the sale of 100 percent of the Company’s share holdings in its Tunisian subsidiaries during February 2011, which owned 100 percent of the Company’s Tunisia proved reserves.
Reserve estimation procedures. The Company has established internal controls over reserve estimation processes and procedures to support the accurate and timely preparation and disclosure of reserve estimates in accordance with SEC and GAAP requirements. These controls include oversight of the reserves estimation reporting processes by Pioneer’s Worldwide Reserves Group (“WWR”), and annual external audits of substantial portions of the Company’s proved reserves by NSAI.
The management of Pioneer’s oil and gas assets is decentralized geographically by individual asset teams who are responsible for the oil and gas activities in each of the Company’s Permian Basin, Rockies, Mid-Continent, South Texas-Eagle Ford Shale, South Texas-Edwards, Barnett Shale, Alaska and Africa asset teams (the “Asset Teams”). The Company’s Asset Teams are each staffed with reservoir engineers and geoscientists who prepare reserve estimates at the end of each calendar quarter for the assets that they manage, using reservoir engineering information technology. There is shared oversight of the Asset Teams’ reservoir engineers by the Asset Teams’ managers and the Director of the WWR, each of whom is in turn subject to direct or indirect oversight by the Company’s Chief Operating Officer (“COO”) and management committee (“MC”). The Company’s MC is comprised of its Chief Executive Officer, COO, Chief Financial Officer and other Executive Vice Presidents. Asset Teams’ reserve estimates are reviewed by the asset team reservoir engineers before being submitted to the Director of the WWR and are summarized in reserve reconciliations that quantify reserve changes represented by revisions of previous estimates, purchases of minerals-in-place, improved recovery, extensions and discoveries, production and sales of minerals-in-place. All reserve estimates, material assumptions and inputs used in reserve estimates and significant changes in reserve estimates are reviewed for engineering and financial appropriateness and compliance with SEC and GAAP standards by the WWR, in consultation with the Company’s accounting and financial management personnel. Annually, the MC reviews the reserve estimates and any differences with NSAI (for the portion of the reserves audited by NSAI) on a consolidated basis before these estimates are approved. The engineers and geoscientists who participate in the reserve estimation and disclosure process periodically attend training on the Reserve Ruling by external consultants and/or through internal Pioneer programs. Additionally, the WWR has
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
prepared and maintains written policies and guidelines for the Asset Teams to reference on reserve estimation and preparation to promote objectivity in the preparation of the Company’s reserve estimates and SEC and GAAP compliance in the reserve estimation and reporting process.
Proved reserves audits. The reserve audits performed by NSAI in the aggregate represented 90 percent, 93 percent and 87 percent of the Company’s 2010, 2009 and 2008 proved reserves, respectively; and, 79 percent, 86 percent and 80 percent of the Company’s 2010, 2009 and 2008 associated pre-tax present value of proved reserves discounted at ten percent, respectively.
NSAI follows the general principles set forth in the standards pertaining to the estimating and auditing of oil and gas reserve information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (“SPE”). A reserve audit as defined by the SPE is not the same as a financial audit. The SPE’s definition of a reserve audit includes the following concepts:
•
A reserve audit is an examination of reserve information that is conducted for the purpose of expressing an opinion as to whether such reserve information, in the aggregate, is reasonable and has been presented in accordance with the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information as promulgated by the SPE.
•
The estimation of reserves is an imprecise science due to the many unknown geologic and reservoir factors that cannot be estimated through sampling techniques. Since reserves are only estimates, they cannot be audited for the purpose of verifying exactness. Instead, reserve information is audited for the purpose of reviewing in sufficient detail the policies, procedures and methods used by a company in estimating its reserves so that the reserve auditors may express an opinion as to whether, in the aggregate, the reserve information furnished by a company is reasonable.
•
The methods and procedures used by a company, and the reserve information furnished by a company, must be reviewed in sufficient detail to permit the reserve auditor, in its professional judgment, to express an opinion as to the reasonableness of the reserve information. The auditing procedures require the reserve auditor to prepare its own estimates of reserve information for the audited properties.
To further clarify, in conjunction with the audit of the Company’s proved reserves and associated pre-tax present value discounted at ten percent, Pioneer provided to NSAI its external and internal engineering and geoscience technical data and analyses. Following NSAI’s review of that data, it had the option of honoring Pioneer’s interpretation, or making its own interpretation. No data was withheld from NSAI. NSAI accepted without independent verification the accuracy and completeness of the historical information and data furnished by Pioneer with respect to ownership interest, oil and gas production, well test data, commodity prices, operating and development costs, and any agreements relating to current and future operations of the properties and sales of production. However, if in the course of its evaluation something came to its attention that brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, NSAI did not rely on such information or data until it had satisfactorily resolved its questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data.
In the course of its evaluations, NSAI prepared, for all of the audited properties, its own estimates of the Company’s proved reserves and the pre-tax present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent. NSAI reviewed its audit differences with the Company, and, in a number of cases, held joint meetings with the Company to review additional reserves work performed by the technical teams and any updated performance data related to the reserve differences. Such data was incorporated, as appropriate, by both parties into the reserve estimates. NSAI’s estimates, including any adjustments resulting from additional data, of those proved reserves and the pre-tax present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent did not differ from Pioneer’s estimates by more than ten percent in the aggregate. However, when compared on a lease-by-lease, field-by-field or area-by-area basis, some of the Company’s estimates were greater than those of NSAI and some were less than the estimates of NSAI. When such differences do not exceed ten percent in the aggregate and NSAI is satisfied that the proved reserves and pre-tax present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent are reasonable and that its audit objectives have been met, NSAI will issue an unqualified audit opinion. Remaining differences are not resolved due to the limited cost benefit of continuing such analyses by the Company and NSAI. At the conclusion of the audit process, it was NSAI’s opinion, as set forth in its audit letter which is included as an exhibit to this Report, that Pioneer’s estimates of the Company’s proved oil and gas reserves and associated pre-tax present value discounted at ten percent are, in the aggregate, reasonable and have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering standards promulgated by the SPE.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
See “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” “Critical Accounting Estimates” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Results of Operations” and “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional discussions regarding proved reserves and their related cash flows.
Qualifications of reserves preparers and auditors. The WWR is staffed by petroleum engineers with extensive industry experience and is managed by the Director of WWR, the technical person that is primarily responsible for overseeing the Company’s reserves estimates. These individuals meet the professional qualifications of reserves estimators and reserves auditors as defined by the “Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information,” promulgated by the board of directors of the SPE. The WWR Director’s qualifications include 33 years of experience as a petroleum engineer, with 26 years focused on reserves reporting for independent oil and gas companies, including Pioneer. His educational background includes an undergraduate degree in Chemical Engineering and a Masters of Business Administration degree in Finance. He is also a Chartered Financial Analyst Charterholder (“CFA”) and a member of the Oil and Gas Reserves Committee of the SPE.
NSAI provides worldwide petroleum property analysis services for energy clients, financial organizations and government agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No.. The technical person primarily responsible for auditing the Company’s reserves estimates has been a practicing consulting petroleum engineer at NSAI since 1983 and has over 31 years of practical experience in petroleum engineering, including 30 years of experience in the estimation and evaluation of proved reserves. He graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemical Engineering in 1978 and meets or exceeds the education, training and experience requirements set forth in the “Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information” promulgated by the board of directors of the SPE.
Technologies used in reserves estimates. The Company uses reliable technologies to establish additions to reserve estimates, including seismic data and interpretation, wireline formation tests, geophysical logs and core data. Reserve additions associated with reliable technologies were less than two percent of the Company’s total proved reserves during the year ended December 31, 2010.
Proved Reserves
The Company’s proved reserves totaled 1,011 MMBOE, 898.6 MMBOE and 959.6 MMBOE at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing $5.4 billion, $3.3 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, of Standardized Measure. The Company’s proved reserves include field fuel, which is gas consumed to operate field equipment (primarily compressors) prior to the gas being delivered to a sales point. The following table shows the changes in the Company’s proved reserve volumes by geographic area during the year ended December 31, 2010 (in MBOE):
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
Production. Production volumes include 2,882 MBOE of field fuel.
Extensions and discoveries. Extensions and discoveries are primarily comprised of extensions in the Spraberry field and discoveries in the Eagle Ford Shale area and Tunisia.
Improved recovery. Additions from improved recovery relate to recognizing secondary recovery reserves attributable to waterflooding the Nuiqsut horizon of the Alaskan Oooguruk development project.
Purchases of minerals-in-place. Purchases of minerals-in-place are primarily attributable to acquisitions in the Company’s Spraberry field and Eagle Ford Shale play.
Sales of minerals-in-place. Sales of minerals-in-place are primarily related to the sale of 45 percent of the Company’s interest in certain proved properties in the Eagle Ford Shale. The sale was done in connection with entering into a joint venture with an unaffiliated third party to develop the Company’s Eagle Ford Shale acreage position. See Note M of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”
Revisions of previous estimates. Revisions of previous estimates are comprised of 59 MMBOE of positive price revisions and 7 MMBOE of positive technical revisions. The Company’s proved reserves at December 31, 2010 were determined using the average of the first-day-of-the-month commodity prices during the 12-month period ending December 31, 2010 of $79.28 per barrel of oil and $4.37 per Mcf of gas, compared to $61.14 per barrel of oil and $3.87 per Mcf of gas as of December 31, 2009.
Tabular proved reserves disclosures. On a BOE basis, 57 percent of the Company’s total proved reserves at December 31, 2010 were proved developed reserves. Based on reserve information as of December 31, 2010, and using the Company’s production information for the year then ended, the reserve-to-production ratio associated with the Company’s proved reserves was in excess of 20 years on a BOE basis. The following table provides information regarding the Company’s proved reserves and average daily sales volumes by geographic area as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010:
(a) The gas reserves contain 303,748 MMcf of gas that will be produced and utilized as field fuel.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
Proved undeveloped reserves. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had 4,727 proved undeveloped well locations (all of which are expected to be developed during the five year period ending December 31, 2015), as compared to 4,582 and 4,977 at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2010, the Company’s development drilling costs incurred increased by 168 percent, as compared to 2009, and the Company converted 19,158 MBOE of proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves. The increase in development drilling costs during 2010 reflects the Company’s expansion of oil- and liquids-focused drilling expenditures during 2010. The Company significantly reduced its development drilling expenditures during 2009 in support of cost reduction initiatives implemented during the second half of 2008 and 2009 in response to significant declines in energy demand and commodity prices (see “Item 1. Business” for a discussion of the worldwide economic slowdown during 2008 and the associated decline in energy demand). The Company’s proved undeveloped well locations that have remained undeveloped for five years or more decreased by 12 percent to 1,467 as of December 31, 2010, as compared to 1,675 well locations at December 31, 2009. Of these undeveloped well locations, 85 percent are in the Spraberry field in the Permian Basin of West Texas. The significant concentration of well locations that have remained undeveloped for five years or more in the Spraberry field is reflective of the Company’s large inventory of drilling locations in the field and the aforementioned curtailment of development drilling activity during 2008 and 2009 in support of cost reduction initiatives. The Company expects to continue to reduce the average age of its undeveloped well locations in the Spraberry field as a result of increases in development drilling budgets in 2011 and future years.
Based on current price outlooks, the Company expects that future operating cash flows, together with a portion of the 2011 net proceeds from the sale of its Tunisian subsidiaries, will provide adequate funding for future development costs. The following table represents the estimated timing and cash flows of developing the Company’s proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands):
(a) Production and cash flows represent the drilling results from the respective year plus the incremental effects of proved undeveloped drilling.
Description of Properties
United States
Approximately 86 percent of the Company’s proved reserves at December 31, 2010 are located in the Spraberry field in the Permian Basin area, the Hugoton and West Panhandle fields in the Mid-Continent area and the Raton field in the Rocky Mountains area. These fields generate substantial operating cash flow, and the Spraberry and Raton fields have a large portfolio of low-risk drilling opportunities. The cash flows generated from these fields provide funding for the Company’s other development and exploration activities both domestically and internationally.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
The following tables summarize the Company’s United States development and exploration/extension drilling activities during 2010:
The following table summarizes the Company’s United States average daily oil, NGL, gas and total production by asset area during 2010:
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
The following table summarizes the Company’s United States costs incurred by geographic area during 2010:
(a) Includes $15.2 million of capitalized interest related to the Oooguruk project.
Permian Basin
Spraberry field. The Spraberry field was discovered in 1949 and encompasses eight counties in West Texas. According to the Energy Information Administration, the Spraberry field is the second largest oil field in the United States. The field is approximately 150 miles long and 75 miles wide at its widest point. The oil produced is West Texas Intermediate Sweet, and the gas produced is casinghead gas with an average energy content of 1,400 Btu. The oil and gas are produced primarily from four formations, the upper and lower Spraberry, the Dean and the Wolfcamp, at depths ranging from 6,700 feet to 11,300 feet. In addition, the Company has also begun evaluating the Strawn formation below the Wolfcamp in certain areas of the field that have better Strawn porosity with successful results and, during 2011, plans to drill 10 to 15 wells to test the Atoka formation, which lies directly below the Strawn formation.
The Company believes the Spraberry field offers excellent opportunities to grow oil and gas production because of the numerous undeveloped drilling locations, many of which are reflected in the Company’s proved undeveloped reserves; the ability to improve incremental recovery rates through infill and deeper formation drilling, waterflood projects and horizontal drilling in certain formations; and the ability to contain operating expenses and drilling costs through economies of scale and vertical integration of field services.
During 2008, the Company initiated a program to test 20-acre infill drilling performance. The Company drilled and completed eleven 20-acre wells in 2008, nine 20-acre wells in 2009, and eighteen 20-acre wells in 2010 with encouraging results to date.
During 2010, the Company also funded an approximately 7,000 acre Spraberry field waterflood project in the upper Spraberry interval of an existing Spraberry unit. Drilling, conversion and facility work was completed during the first half of 2010 and water injection commenced during the second half of 2010. Early results from the project are encouraging, as the production decline from 110 producing wells in the surveillance area has shown signs of flattening.
During 2010, the Company also commenced drilling on two horizontal wells, both of which were in progress at December 31, 2010, to test horizontal drilling in the Wolfcamp. Both wells will be 4,000-foot laterals with 15-stage fracture stimulation completions. The first well is being drilled in the middle Wolfcamp carbonate section. The second well is targeting the lower Wolfcamp shale section. The horizontal test wells are expected to be completed during the first quarter of 2011.
The 20-acre well spacing, waterflood initiatives and horizontal drilling described above are being implemented to increase the Spraberry field recovery percentage in those areas of the field that are expected to be conducive for these undertakings. However, the ultimate incremental recovery rates associated with these initiatives cannot be precisely predicted at this time.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
During 2010, the Company drilled 423 wells in the Spraberry field and its total acreage position now approximates 822,000 gross acres (713,000 net acres). Pioneer has expanded its drilling program in 2011 to 30 rigs and plans to increase its rig count to 35 rigs in mid-2011 and to 40 or more rigs in 2012.
To support the Company’s Spraberry drilling efforts and to control costs, the Company has expanded its integrated services by acquiring 12 Company-operated drilling rigs and three fracture stimulation fleets that have recently commenced operations in the field. Two additional fracture stimulation fleets are being built, with one scheduled for delivery in the second quarter of 2011 and the second in the fourth quarter of 2011. Additionally, the Company has sand supply in place to satisfy its forecasted fracture stimulation requirements through 2015 and tubular and pumping unit requirements have been contracted through 2012. The Company also owns other field service equipment, including pulling units, fracture stimulation tanks, water transport trucks and fishing tools, to support its growing operations.
Mid-Continent
Hugoton field. The Hugoton field in southwest Kansas is one of the largest producing gas fields in the continental United States. The gas is produced from the Chase and Council Grove formations at depths ranging from 2,700 feet to 3,000 feet. The Company’s Hugoton properties are located on approximately 285,000 gross acres (247,000 net acres), covering approximately 400 square miles. The Company has working interests in approximately 1,225 wells in the Hugoton field, approximately 1,000 of which it operates, and partial working interest in approximately 225 wells.
The Company operates substantially all of the gathering and processing facilities, including the Satanta plant, which processes the production from the Hugoton field. During January 2011, the Company sold a 49 percent interest in the Satanta plant to an unaffiliated third party for the third party’s commitment to dedicate gas volumes to the Satanta plant. This agreement is expected to increase the Satanta plant’s processing volumes and economic longevity. The Company is also exploring opportunities to process other gas production in the Hugoton area at the Satanta plant. By maintaining operatorship of the gathering and processing facilities, the Company is able to control the production, gathering, processing and sale of its Hugoton field gas and NGL production.
West Panhandle field. The West Panhandle properties are located in the panhandle region of Texas. These stable, long-lived reserves are attributable to the Red Cave, Brown Dolomite, Granite Wash and fractured Granite formations at depths no greater than 3,500 feet. The Company’s gas has an average energy content of 1,365 Btu and is produced from approximately 685 wells on more than 250,000 gross acres (240,000 net acres) covering over 375 square miles. The Company controls 100 percent of the wells, production equipment, gathering system and the Fain gas processing plant for the field. As this field is operated at or below vacuum conditions, Pioneer continually works to improve compressor and gathering system efficiency.
Raton
The Raton Basin properties are located in the southeast portion of Colorado. The Company owns approximately 256,000 gross acres (219,000 net acres) in the center of the Raton Basin and produces CBM gas from the coal seams in the Vermejo and Raton formations. The Company owns the majority of the well servicing and fracture stimulation equipment that it utilizes in the Raton field, allowing it to control costs and insure availability.
In the Raton field, the Company has typically sold its gas at a Mid-Continent index price, which has generally provided for higher realized gas prices as compared to the Rockies-based indexes. During December 2009, the Company entered into a ten-year firm transportation contract that commences upon completion of a new 675-mile pipeline spanning from Opal, Wyoming to Malin, Oregon. Upon completion of the pipeline’s construction, which is currently anticipated in the second quarter of 2011, the Company will have 75,000 Mcf per day of firm transportation under this agreement.
During 2010, the Company entered into an additional firm transportation contract commitment that provides gas transportation from the Raton field to Opal, Wyoming in order to support the Company’s future Opal, Wyoming to Malin, Oregon commitments as well as other forecasted sales upstream of Opal, Wyoming. This firm transportation contract provides for up to 100,000 Mcf per day of gas transportation during the contract’s primary term, which began in December 2010 and ends in March 2021.
The Company also has firm transportation commitments for 215,000 Mcf per day of gas (which decline over an 11 year term) from the Raton field eastward to Mid-Continent sales points. The Company’s aggregate firm
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
transportation commitments from the Raton field northwest towards Malin, Oregon, and east towards Mid-Continent sales points, exceed the Company’s current gas sales volumes controlled from the Raton field. While these excess firm transportation commitments provide capacity for future production growth from planned drilling, it also represents excess transportation costs to be managed until controlled sales volumes and firm transportation commitments reach equilibrium. The Company is exploring opportunities to defer near-term commitments until later periods or to purchase third party gas volumes to meet current transportation commitments. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Contractual obligations” and Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information about the Company’s transportation commitments.
South Texas and Eagle Ford Shale
The Company’s drilling activities in the South Texas area during 2010 continue to be primarily focused on delineation and development of Pioneer’s substantial acreage position in the Eagle Ford Shale play. The Company is currently running seven drilling rigs in the Eagle Ford Shale play and plans to increase the Eagle Ford Shale rig count to 12 rigs in mid-2011, 14 rigs during 2012 and 16 rigs in 2013.
To improve the execution of the Company’s Eagle Ford Shale drilling program and reduce drilling costs, the Company has purchased two fracture stimulation fleets. One is expected to be in operation during the second quarter of 2011 and the other during the fourth quarter of 2011. The Company has also entered into a two-year contract for a dedicated third-party fracture stimulation fleet, which is expected to begin operations during the latter part of the first quarter of 2011. The Company is also pursuing opportunities to contract for other third-party fracture stimulation equipment.
During June 2010, the Company entered into an Eagle Ford Shale joint venture transaction. Pursuant to the transaction, the Company entered into a purchase and sale agreement to sell 45 percent of its Eagle Ford Shale proved and unproved oil and gas properties to an unaffiliated third party for $212.0 million of cash proceeds, including normal closing adjustments. The terms of the transaction also provide that the purchaser will pay 75 percent (up to $886.8 million) of the Company’s defined exploration, drilling and completion costs attributable to the Eagle Ford Shale assets during the six years ending on July 1, 2016, subject to extension. The Company’s current expectations are that the purchaser’s obligation to pay 75 percent of the Company’s defined exploration, drilling and completion costs attributable to Eagle Ford Shale assets will be satisfied by mid-2013. The Company and its joint venture partners have drilled 41 Eagle Ford Shale wells, of which 21 wells have been completed and are producing, three wells are completed and awaiting connections to sales lines and 17 wells remain in progress awaiting limited third-party fracture stimulation fleet availability. The Company also sold a 49.9 percent member interest in EFS Midstream LLC (“EFS Midstream”), an entity formed by the Company to own and operate gathering facilities in the Eagle Ford Shale area, to the purchaser for $46.4 million of cash proceeds and deferred a $46.2 million associated net gain. The Company does not have voting control of EFS Midstream and does not consolidate its financial statements.
EFS Midstream is obligated to construct certain of the gathering, treating and transportation infrastructure in the Eagle Ford Shale area. As EFS Midstream constructs these midstream assets, the Company will be responsible for funding 50.1 percent of EFS Midstream’s cash requirements. Construction of the midstream assets is underway, with the majority of the construction expected to be completed by 2013. Three of the 14 planned facilities (“CGPs”) were completed as of December 31, 2010. EFS Midstream plans to build five additional CGPs during 2011, with the first two expected to be completed during March. As construction of CGPs is completed, EFS Midstream will provide gathering, treating and transportation services for the Company during a 20-year contractual period.
During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company entered into contractual agreements with third parties to gather, transport, process and fractionate certain portions of the future oil, gas and NGLs produced and recovered from the Company’s Eagle Ford Shale properties. The Company entered into a ten year oil gathering agreement, under which the counterparty is obligated to build a 111-mile oil pipeline that will transport approximately 7,100 Bbls of oil per day in 2012, increasing to approximately 17,400 Bbls per day in 2017, and declining thereafter until the contract term ends in 2022. The Company has firm transportation commitments under this contract after the counterparty builds the pipeline.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
The Company entered into two five-year gas transportation agreements, under which it is committed to provide approximately 20,600 Mcf per day of gas throughput from Eagle Ford Shale wells beginning in mid-2011. Transportation commitments under these agreements increase to approximately 88,600 Mcf per day in 2015 before terminating in mid-2016. All but 28,300 Mcf per day of the firm transportation commitments under these agreements is subject to a counterparty’s obligation to build infrastructure facilities.
The Company also entered into a ten-year contractual agreement with a third party for the transportation and processing of Eagle Ford Shale gas production and the fractionation of recovered NGLs. The firm transportation commitments under this agreement are for approximately 18,000 Mcf per day in 2011, increasing to approximately 170,000 Mcf per day in 2020; processing commitments under the agreement are for approximately 15,000 Mcf per day in 2011, increasing to approximately 139,000 Mcf per day in 2020; and, fractionation commitments under the agreement are for approximately 1,500 Bbls per day of NGLs in 2011, increasing to approximately 15,000 Bbls per day in 2020.
Barnett Shale
During 2010, the Company continued to increase its acreage position in the liquid-rich Barnett Shale Combo area in North Texas. In total, the Company has accumulated approximately 80,000 gross acres in the liquid-rich area of the field, representing over 600 potential drilling locations. During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company commenced a two-rig drilling program in the play.
The Company’s total lease holdings in the Barnett Shale play now approximate 124,000 gross acres (97,000 net acres).
Alaska
The Company owns a 70 percent working interest and is the operator of the Oooguruk development project. The Company has drilled ten production wells and six injection wells of the estimated 17 production and 16 injection wells planned to fully develop this project. In addition, the Company drilled a horizontal exploration well in the Torok formation during 2010. Based on the performance to date, the Company plans to drill and fracture stimulate two additional Torok wells in 2011 to further evaluate the productivity of the formation and possibility of a future development project.
International
During 2010, the Company’s international operations were located offshore South Africa and in Tunisia. See Notes B and U of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for information regarding the sale of the Company’s Tunisia subsidiaries during February 2011.
The following table summarizes the Company’s Tunisia exploration/extension and development drilling activities during 2010:
The following table summarizes the Company’s international average daily oil, NGL, gas and total production during 2010:
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
The following table summarizes the Company’s international costs incurred by geographic area during 2010:
South Africa
The Company has production and exploration agreements covering over 3.6 million acres offshore the southern coast of South Africa in water depths generally less than 650 feet. The Company’s initial discovery, Sable oil field, began producing in August 2003 and over its five-year life recovered approximately 23.6 million gross barrels of oil. During the life of the Sable oil field, the majority of the gas produced in conjunction with the oil production was injected back into the reservoir. The Company had a 40 percent working interest in the oil production from the Sable field.
In 2005, the Company sanctioned the non-operated South Coast Gas development project, which included a subsea tie-back of gas from the Sable field and five additional gas accumulations to an existing production facility on the F-A platform for transportation via existing pipelines to a gas-to-liquids plant. Pioneer has a 45 percent working interest in the project. As part of sanctioning of the South Coast Gas project, the Company signed a six-year contract for the sale of its gas and condensate production from the project. The contract contains an obligation for the purchaser to take or pay for a total of 91.4 Bcf and associated condensate if the anticipated deliverability estimates are achieved. The price for both gas and condensate is indexed to Dated Brent oil prices. First production from the South Coast Gas project was achieved in the third quarter of 2007.
A significant portion of the gas reserves associated with the South Coast Gas project is in the Sable field. In the third quarter of 2008, Sable oil production was shut in and operations to convert Sable’s gas injection well to a producing well commenced. Gas sales from the Sable gas well were initiated in mid-October 2008 and the other South Coast Gas wells resumed production in late-October. The Sable gas well is the most productive well in the South Coast Gas project.
Tunisia
The Company held interests in four separate onshore permits located in the southern portion of Tunisia. During February 2011, the Company completed the sale of 100 percent of its share holdings in its Tunisian subsidiaries for cash proceeds of $866 million, before normal closing adjustments. The Company’s Tunisian permits covered a gross area of approximately 12,740 square kilometers containing three production concessions targeting the Acacus formation with additional future upside exploration potential from this and other formations. See Notes B and U of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information about the divestiture of the Company’s Tunisian subsidiaries.
Selected Oil and Gas Information
The following tables set forth selected oil and gas information from continuing operations for the Company as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Because of normal production declines, increased or decreased drilling activities and the effects of acquisitions or divestitures, the historical information presented below should not be interpreted as being indicative of future results.
Production, price and cost data. Oil and gas are commodities. The price that the Company receives for the oil and gas produced is largely a function of market supply and demand. Demand for oil and gas in the United States has increased dramatically during this decade. However, the economic slowdown reduced this demand during the second half of 2008 and through 2009. Demand is impacted by general economic conditions, weather and other seasonal conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms. Over or under supply of oil or gas can result in substantial price volatility. Historically, commodity prices have been volatile and the Company expects that volatility to continue in the future. A substantial or extended decline in oil or gas prices or poor drilling results could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, cash flows, quantities of oil and gas reserves that may be economically produced and the Company’s ability to access capital markets.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
The following tables set forth production, price and cost data with respect to the Company’s properties for 2010, 2009 and 2008. These amounts represent the Company’s historical results from continuing operations without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions, divestitures or drilling activity that occurred during the respective years. The production amounts will not agree to the reserve volume tables in the “Unaudited Supplementary Information” section included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” due to field fuel volumes and production associated with completed divestitures (reflected as discontinued operations) being included in the reserve volume tables.
PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA
(a) The Company records the amortization of deferred VPP revenue at a field level but does not record the results of its hedging activities at a field level.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA - (Continued)
(a) The Company records the amortization of deferred VPP revenue at a field level but does not record the results of its hedging activities at a field level.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA - (Continued)
(a) The Company records the amortization of deferred VPP revenue at a field level but does not record the results of its hedging activities at a field level.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
Productive wells. The following table sets forth the number of productive oil and gas wells attributable to the Company’s properties as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:
PRODUCTIVE WELLS (a)
(a) Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including shut-in wells and gas wells awaiting pipeline connections to commence deliveries and oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities. One or more completions in the same well bore are counted as one well. If any well in which one of the multiple completions is an oil completion, then the well is classified as an oil well. As of December 31, 2010, the Company owned interests in one gross well containing multiple completions.
Leasehold acreage. The following table sets forth information about the Company’s developed, undeveloped and royalty leasehold acreage as of December 31, 2010:
LEASEHOLD ACREAGE
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
The following table sets forth the expiration dates of the leases on the Company’s gross and net undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2010:
(a) Acres expiring are based on contractual lease maturities.
(b) All acres subject to expiration during 2011 are in North America. The Company may extend the leases prior to their expiration based upon 2011 planned activities or for other business reasons. In certain leases, the extension is only subject to the Company’s election to extend and the fulfillment of certain capital expenditures commitments. In other cases, the extensions are subject to the consent of third parties, and no assurance can be given that the requested extensions will be granted. See “Description of Properties” above for information regarding the Company’s drilling operations.
Drilling and other exploratory and development activities. The following table sets forth the number of gross and net wells drilled by the Company during 2010, 2009 and 2008 that were productive or dry holes. This information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there was any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and the oil and gas reserves generated thereby or the costs to the Company of productive wells compared to the costs of dry holes.
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
(a) Represents the ratio of those wells that were successfully completed as producing wells or wells capable of producing to total wells drilled and evaluated.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
Present activities. The following table sets forth information about the Company’s wells that were in process of being drilled as of December 31, 2010:
ITEM 3.