ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Reserve Rule Changes
During 2009, the SEC issued its final rule on the modernization of oil and gas reporting (the “Reserve Ruling”) and, during 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2010-03 (“ASU 2010-03”) “Extractive Industries - Oil and Gas,” which aligned the estimation and disclosure requirements of FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 932 with the Reserve Ruling. The Reserve Ruling and ASU 2010-03 became effective for Annual Reports on Form 10-K for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009. The key provisions of the Reserve Ruling and ASU 2010-03 are as follows:
•
Expanding the definition of oil- and gas-producing activities to include the extraction of saleable hydrocarbons, in the solid, liquid or gaseous state, from oil sands, coalbeds or other nonrenewable natural resources that are intended to be upgraded into synthetic oil or gas, and activities undertaken with a view to such extraction;
•
Amending the definition of proved oil and gas reserves to require the use of an average of the first-day-of-the-month commodity prices during the 12-month period ending on the balance sheet date rather than period-end commodity prices;
•
Adding to and amending other definitions used in estimating proved oil and gas reserves, such as “reliable technology” and “reasonable certainty;”
•
Broadening the types of technology that a reporter may use to establish reserves estimates and categories; and
•
Changing disclosure requirements and providing formats for tabular reserve disclosures.
Reserve Estimation Procedures and Audits
The information included in this Report about the Company’s proved reserves as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, which were located in the United States, South Africa and Tunisia, is based on evaluations prepared by (i) the Company’s engineers and audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), with respect to the Company’s major properties, and (ii) the Company’s engineers, with respect to all other properties. The Company has no oil and gas reserves from non-traditional sources. Additionally, the Company does not provide optional disclosure of probable or possible reserves. See Notes B and U of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for information regarding the sale of the Company’s share holdings in Pioneer Tunisia during February 2011, which owned the Company’s Tunisia proved reserves.
Reserve estimation procedures. The Company has established internal controls over reserve estimation processes and procedures to support the accurate and timely preparation and disclosure of reserve estimates in accordance with SEC and GAAP requirements. These controls include oversight of the reserves estimation reporting processes by Pioneer’s Worldwide Reserves Group (the “WWR”), and annual external audits of substantial portions of the Company’s proved reserves by NSAI.
The management of Pioneer’s oil and gas assets is decentralized geographically by individual asset teams who are responsible for the oil and gas activities in each of the Company’s Permian Basin, Rockies, Mid-Continent, South Texas-Eagle Ford Shale, South Texas-Edwards, Barnett Shale, Alaska and Africa asset teams (the “Asset Teams”). The Company’s Asset Teams are each staffed with reservoir engineers and geoscientists who prepare reserve estimates at the end of each calendar quarter for the assets that they manage, using reservoir engineering information technology. There is shared oversight of the Asset Teams’ reservoir engineers by the Asset Teams’ managers and the Director of the WWR, each of whom is in turn subject to direct or indirect oversight by the Company’s Chief Operating Officer (“COO”) and management committee (“MC”). The Company’s MC is comprised of its Chief Executive Officer, COO, Chief Financial Officer and other Executive Vice Presidents. The Asset Teams’ reserve estimates are reviewed by the asset team reservoir engineers before being submitted to the WWR for further review.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
The reserve estimates are summarized in reserve reconciliations that quantify reserve changes since the previous year end by revisions of previous estimates, purchases of minerals-in-place, improved recovery, extensions and discoveries, production and sales of minerals-in-place. All reserve estimates, material assumptions and inputs used in reserve estimates and significant changes in reserve estimates are reviewed for engineering and financial appropriateness and compliance with SEC and GAAP standards by the WWR, in consultation with the Company’s accounting and financial management personnel. Annually, the MC reviews the reserve estimates and any differences with NSAI (for the portion of the reserves audited by NSAI) on a consolidated basis before these estimates are approved. The engineers and geoscientists who participate in the reserve estimation and disclosure process periodically attend training on the Reserve Ruling by external consultants and/or through internal Pioneer programs. Additionally, the WWR has prepared and maintains written policies and guidelines for the Asset Teams to reference on reserve estimation and preparation to promote objectivity in the preparation of the Company’s reserve estimates and SEC and GAAP compliance in the reserve estimation and reporting process.
Proved reserves audits. The proved reserve audits performed by NSAI in the aggregate represented 90 percent, 90 percent and 93 percent of the Company’s 2011, 2010 and 2009 proved reserves, respectively; and, 91 percent, 79 percent and 86 percent of the Company’s 2011, 2010 and 2009 associated pre-tax present value of proved reserves discounted at ten percent, respectively.
NSAI follows the general principles set forth in the standards pertaining to the estimating and auditing of oil and gas reserve information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (the “SPE”). A reserve audit as defined by the SPE is not the same as a financial audit. The SPE’s definition of a reserve audit includes the following concepts:
•
A reserve audit is an examination of reserve information that is conducted for the purpose of expressing an opinion as to whether such reserve information, in the aggregate, is reasonable and has been presented in conformity with the 2007 SPE publication entitled “Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information”.
•
The estimation of reserves is an imprecise science due to the many unknown geologic and reservoir factors that cannot be estimated through sampling techniques. Since reserves are only estimates, they cannot be audited for the purpose of verifying exactness. Instead, reserve information is audited for the purpose of reviewing in sufficient detail the policies, procedures and methods used by a company in estimating its reserves so that the reserve auditors may express an opinion as to whether, in the aggregate, the reserve information furnished by a company is reasonable.
•
The methods and procedures used by a company, and the reserve information furnished by a company, must be reviewed in sufficient detail to permit the reserve auditor, in its professional judgment, to express an opinion as to the reasonableness of the reserve information. The auditing procedures require the reserve auditor to prepare its own estimates of reserve information for the audited properties.
In conjunction with the audit of the Company’s proved reserves and associated pre-tax present value discounted at ten percent, Pioneer provided to NSAI its external and internal engineering and geoscience technical data and analyses. Following NSAI’s review of that data, it had the option of honoring Pioneer’s interpretation, or making its own interpretation. No data was withheld from NSAI. NSAI accepted without independent verification the accuracy and completeness of the historical information and data furnished by Pioneer with respect to ownership interest, oil and gas production, well test data, commodity prices, operating and development costs, and any agreements relating to current and future operations of the properties and sales of production. However, if in the course of its evaluation something came to its attention that brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, NSAI did not rely on such information or data until it had satisfactorily resolved its questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data.
In the course of its evaluations, NSAI prepared, for all of the audited properties, its own estimates of the Company’s proved reserves and the pre-tax present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent. NSAI reviewed its audit differences with the Company, and, in a number of cases, held joint meetings with the Company to review additional reserves work performed by the technical teams and any updated performance data related to the proved reserve differences. Such data was incorporated, as appropriate, by both parties into the proved reserve estimates. NSAI’s estimates, including any adjustments resulting from additional data, of those proved reserves and the pre-tax present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent did not differ from Pioneer’s estimates by more than ten percent in the aggregate. However, when compared on a lease-by-lease, field-by-field or area-by-area basis, some of the Company’s estimates were greater than those of NSAI and some were less than the estimates of NSAI. When such differences do not exceed ten percent in the aggregate and NSAI is satisfied that the proved reserves and pre-tax
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent are reasonable and that its audit objectives have been met, NSAI will issue an unqualified audit opinion. Remaining differences are not resolved due to the limited cost benefit of continuing such analyses by the Company and NSAI. At the conclusion of the audit process, it was NSAI’s opinion, as set forth in its audit letter, which is included as an exhibit to this Report, that Pioneer’s estimates of the Company’s proved oil and gas reserves and associated pre-tax present value discounted at ten percent are, in the aggregate, reasonable and have been prepared in accordance with the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the SPE.
See “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” “Critical Accounting Estimates” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Results of Operations” and “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional discussions regarding proved reserves and their related cash flows.
Qualifications of reserves preparers and auditors. The WWR is staffed by petroleum engineers with extensive industry experience and is managed by the Director of the WWR, the technical person that is primarily responsible for overseeing the Company’s reserves estimates. These individuals meet the professional qualifications of reserves estimators and reserves auditors as defined by the “Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information,” promulgated by the SPE. The WWR Director’s qualifications include 34 years of experience as a petroleum engineer, with 27 years focused on reserves reporting for independent oil and gas companies, including Pioneer. His educational background includes an undergraduate degree in Chemical Engineering and a Masters of Business Administration degree in Finance. He is also a Chartered Financial Analyst Charterholder (“CFA”) and a member of the Oil and Gas Reserves Committee of the SPE.
NSAI provides worldwide petroleum property analysis services for energy clients, financial organizations and government agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No.. The technical person primarily responsible for auditing the Company’s reserves estimates has been a practicing consulting petroleum engineer at NSAI since 1983 and has over 33 years of practical experience in petroleum engineering, including 32 years of experience in the estimation and evaluation of proved reserves. He graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemical Engineering in 1978 and meets or exceeds the education, training and experience requirements set forth in the “Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information” promulgated by the board of directors of the SPE.
Technologies used in reserves estimates. Proved undeveloped reserves include those reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for completion. Undeveloped reserves may be classified as proved reserves on undrilled acreage directly offsetting development areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, or where reliable technology provides reasonable certainty of economic producibility. Undrilled locations may be classified as having undeveloped proved reserves only if an ability and intent has been established to drill the reserves within five years, unless specific circumstances justify a longer time period.
In the context of reserves estimations, reasonable certainty means a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered and reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that has been field-tested and has been demonstrated to provide reasonable certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. In estimating proved reserves, the Company uses several different traditional methods such as performance-based methods, volumetric-based methods and analogy with similar properties. In addition, the Company utilizes additional technical analysis such as seismic interpretation, wireline formation tests, geophysical logs and core data to provide incremental support for more complex reservoirs. Information from this incremental support is combined with the traditional technologies outlined above to enhance the certainty of the Company’s reserve estimates.
Proved Reserves
The Company’s proved reserves totaled 1,063 MMBOE, 1,011 MMBOE and 899 MMBOE at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing $7.8 billion, $5.4 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively, of Standardized Measure. The Company’s proved reserves include field fuel, which is gas consumed to operate field equipment (primarily compressors) prior to the gas being delivered to a sales point.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
The following table shows the changes in the Company’s proved reserve volumes by geographic area during the year ended December 31, 2011 (in MBOE):
Production. Production volumes include 2,954 MBOE of field fuel.
Extensions and discoveries. Extensions and discoveries are primarily comprised of extensions in the Spraberry field and discoveries in the Eagle Ford Shale and Barnett Shale Combo plays.
Improved recovery. Additions from improved recovery relate to recognizing secondary recovery reserves attributable to waterflooding the Nuiqsut horizon of the Alaskan Oooguruk development project.
Purchases of minerals-in-place. Purchases of minerals-in-place are primarily attributable to acquisitions in the Company’s Spraberry field.
Sales of minerals-in-place. Sales of minerals-in-place are related to the divestment of Pioneer Tunisia. See Notes M and U of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”
Revisions of previous estimates. Revisions of previous estimates are comprised of 28 MMBOE of negative price revisions and 10 MMBOE of negative revisions due to updated performance profiles and cost estimates. The Company’s proved reserves at December 31, 2011 were determined using an average of the NYMEX spot prices for sales of oil and gas on the first calendar day of each month during 2011. On this basis, the NYMEX price for oil and gas for proved reserve reporting purposes at December 31, 2011 was $96.13 per barrel of oil and $4.12 per Mcf of gas, compared to the comparable average NYMEX prices of $79.28 per barrel of oil and $4.37 per Mcf of gas at December 31, 2010.
Tabular proved reserves disclosures. On a BOE basis, 58 percent of the Company’s total proved reserves at December 31, 2011 were proved developed reserves.
The following table provides information regarding the Company’s proved reserves and standardized measure by geographic area as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011:
(a) The gas reserves contain 301,123 MMcf of gas that will be produced and utilized as field fuel.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
Proved undeveloped reserves. The following table summarizes the Company’s proved undeveloped reserves activity during the year ended December 31, 2011 (in MBOE):
As of December 31, 2011, the Company had 4,599 proved undeveloped well locations (all of which are expected to be developed during the five year period ending December 31, 2016), as compared to 4,727 and 4,582 at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The changes in proved undeveloped reserves during 2011 are comprised of the following items:
Extensions and discoveries. Extensions and discoveries are primarily comprised of extensions in the Spraberry field and discoveries in the Eagle Ford Shale and Barnett Shale Combo plays.
Purchases of minerals-in-place. Purchases of minerals-in-place are primarily attributable to acquisitions in the Company’s Spraberry field.
Improved recovery. Additions from improved recovery relate to recognizing secondary recovery reserves attributable to waterflooding the Nuiqsut horizon of the Alaskan Oooguruk development project.
Revisions of previous estimates. Revisions of previous estimates are comprised of 34 MMBOE of negative price revisions associated with proved dry gas reserves that are no longer planned to be drilled in the next five years and 5 MMBOE of positive technical revisions, primarily in the Spraberry field.
Transfers to proved developed. Transfers to proved developed reserves represents those undeveloped proved reserves that moved to proved developed as a result of development drilling during 2011.
Sales of minerals-in-place. Sales of minerals-in-place are primarily related to the divestment of Pioneer Tunisia.
During 2011, the Company added approximately 32 MMBOE of proved undeveloped reserves for locations that are more than one location removed from developed locations in the Spraberry field. Within the Spraberry field, the Company uses both public and proprietary geologic data to establish continuity of the formation and its producing properties. This included seismic data and interpretations (2-D, 3-D and micro seismic); open hole log information (both vertical and horizontally collected) and petrophysical analysis of the log data; mud logs; gas sample analysis; drill cutting samples; measurements of total organic content; thermal maturity; sidewall cores and data measured from our internal core analysis facility. After the geologic area was shown to be continuous, statistical analysis of existing producing wells was conducted to generate area of reasonable certainty at distances from established production. As a result of this analysis, proved undeveloped reserves for drilling locations within this area of reasonable certainty were recorded during 2011.
The Company’s proved undeveloped reserves and well locations that have remained undeveloped for five years or more decreased during the year ended December 31, 2011 by 38 percent and 42 percent, respectively, to 80 MMBOE of proved undeveloped reserves and 858 well locations compared to 130 MMBOE and 1,467 locations at year end 2010. The Company’s inventory of proved undeveloped reserves and well locations that have remained undeveloped for five years or more is decreasing as a result of the Company’s annual increases in its capital expenditures since 2009. The Company’s proved undeveloped reserves and well locations that have remained undeveloped for five years or more are all located in the Spraberry field where approximately 70 percent of the Company’s $2.5 billion capital budget for 2012 is expected to be spent.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
Based on management’s commodity price outlook, the Company expects that future operating cash flows will provide adequate funding for future development of its proved undeveloped reserves within the next five years. The following table represents the estimated timing and cash flows of developing the Company’s proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2011 (dollars in thousands):
(a) Production and cash flows represent the drilling results from the respective year plus the incremental effects of proved undeveloped drilling.
(b) The $321.8 million of future development costs includes (i) $125.3 million of completion costs forecasted in 2017 and (ii) $196.5 million of net abandonment costs in future years.
Description of Properties
United States
Approximately 83 percent of the Company’s proved reserves at December 31, 2011 are located in the Spraberry field in the Permian Basin area, the Hugoton and West Panhandle fields in the Mid-Continent area and the Raton field in the Rocky Mountains area. These fields generate substantial operating cash flow, which provides funding for the Company’s development and exploration activities in the Spraberry field, Raton field, Eagle Ford Shale play, Barnett Shale Combo play and Alaska.
The following tables summarize the Company’s United States development and exploration/extension drilling activities during 2011:
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
The following table summarizes the Company’s United States average daily oil, NGL, gas and total production by asset area during 2011:
(a) Gas production excludes gas produced and utilized as field fuel.
The following table summarizes the Company’s United States costs incurred by geographic area during 2011:
(a) Includes $13.4 million of capitalized interest related to the Oooguruk project.
Permian Basin
Spraberry field. The Spraberry field was discovered in 1949 and encompasses eight counties in West Texas. According to the Energy Information Administration, the Spraberry field is the second largest oil field in the United States. The field is approximately 150 miles long and 75 miles wide at its widest point. The oil produced is West Texas Intermediate Sweet, and the gas produced is casinghead gas with an average energy content of 1,400 Btu. The
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
oil and gas are produced primarily from four formations, the upper and lower Spraberry, the Dean and the Wolfcamp, at depths ranging from 6,700 feet to 11,300 feet. In addition, the Company is drilling deeper to the Strawn, Atoka and Mississippian intervals with positive results.
The Company believes the Spraberry field offers excellent opportunities to grow oil and gas production because of the numerous undeveloped drilling locations, many of which are reflected in the Company’s proved undeveloped reserves; the ability to improve incremental recovery rates through infill and deeper formation drilling, waterflood projects and horizontal drilling in certain formations; and the ability to contain operating expenses and drilling costs through economies of scale and vertical integration of field services.
During 2011, the Company drilled 706 wells in the Spraberry field and its total acreage position now approximates 820,000 gross acres (691,000 net acres). For 2012, the Company plans to drill approximately 750 vertical wells. The Company currently has 44 rigs operating, of which 41 are drilling vertical wells and three are drilling horizontal wells, but plans to reduce its vertical rig count to approximately 30 rigs by year-end 2012 and increase its horizontal Wolfcamp Shale rig count to seven by year end. In approximately 50 percent of the planned 750 well vertical drilling program, the Wolfcamp interval will be the deepest interval completed. Of the remaining 50 percent of the wells, 20 percent are planned to be deepened to the Strawn interval, 20 percent to the Atoka interval and 10 percent to the Mississippian interval.
The Company recently completed its second successful horizontal well in the Upper/Middle Wolfcamp Shale in Upton County, Texas with a 30-stage fracture stimulation in a 5,800-foot lateral section. This well is performing similarly to the Company’s first horizontal well in the area. The first horizontal well has produced over 45 MBOE in its first 90 days of production, which is approximately seven times the production from a typical Spraberry vertical well over the same time period. These wells continue to flow naturally and are producing to sales.
Based on this successful drilling activity and Pioneer’s extensive geologic interpretation of the Upper/Middle Wolfcamp Shale, the Company believes it has significant horizontal potential within its acreage. Pioneer is the largest acreage holder in the play with more than 400,000 prospective acres.
The Company is currently focusing its horizontal efforts on more than 200,000 acres in the southern part of the field to hold acreage that would otherwise expire by year-end 2013. Current plans call for drilling 80 to 90 horizontal wells in this area by the end of 2013, with 30 to 35 horizontal wells expected to be drilled in 2012.
The Company continues to test downspacing in the Spraberry field from 40 acres to 20 acres. Sixteen 20-acre wells were drilled in 2011, with 10 of these wells having been placed on production. These 20-acre wells were mostly drilled to the Lower Wolfcamp interval, with a few deepened to the Strawn interval. The Company plans to drill approximately 50 additional 20-acre downspaced wells during 2012.
The Company continues to expand its integrated services to control drilling costs and support the execution of its accelerating drilling program. The Company has increased its owned drilling rigs to 15 and has five Company-owned fracture stimulation fleets totaling 100,000 horsepower currently operating in the Spraberry field supporting vertical drilling operations. Two additional fleets totaling 70,000 horsepower will be added by mid-year 2012 to support Pioneer’s horizontal drilling program in the Wolfcamp Shale. To support its growing operations, the Company also owns other field service equipment, including pulling units, fracture stimulation tanks, water transport trucks, hot oilers, blowout preventers, construction equipment and fishing tools. In addition, the Company has contracted for tubular and pumping unit requirements through 2012 and well cementing services through 2016.
Mid-Continent
Hugoton field. The Hugoton field in southwest Kansas is one of the largest producing gas fields in the continental United States. The gas is produced from the Chase and Council Grove formations at depths ranging from 2,700 feet to 3,000 feet. The Company’s Hugoton properties are located on approximately 284,000 gross acres (245,000 net acres), covering approximately 400 square miles. The Company has working interests in approximately 1,220 wells in the Hugoton field, approximately 1,000 of which it operates.
The Company operates substantially all of the gathering and processing facilities, including the Satanta plant, which processes the production from the Hugoton field. In January 2011, the Company sold a 49 percent interest in the Satanta plant to an unaffiliated third party for the third party’s commitment to dedicate gas volumes to the Satanta plant. This agreement has increased the Satanta plant’s processing volumes and is expected to increase its
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
economic longevity. The Company is also exploring opportunities to process other gas production in the Hugoton area at the Satanta plant. By maintaining operatorship of the gathering and processing facilities, the Company is able to control the production, gathering, processing and sale of its Hugoton field gas and NGL production.
West Panhandle field. The West Panhandle properties are located in the panhandle region of Texas. These stable, long-lived reserves are attributable to the Red Cave, Brown Dolomite, Granite Wash and fractured Granite formations at depths no greater than 3,500 feet. The Company’s gas has an average energy content of 1,365 Btu and is produced from approximately 680 wells on more than 259,000 gross acres (252,000 net acres) covering over 375 square miles. The Company controls 100 percent of the wells, production equipment, gathering system and the Fain gas processing plant for the field. As this field is operated at or below vacuum conditions, Pioneer continually works to improve compressor and gathering system efficiency.
Raton
The Raton Basin properties are located in the southeast portion of Colorado. The Company owns approximately 227,000 gross acres (201,000 net acres) in the center of the Raton Basin and produces CBM gas from the coal seams in the Vermejo and Raton formations from approximately 2,300 wells. The Company owns the majority of the well servicing and fracture stimulation equipment that it utilizes in the Raton field, allowing it to control costs and insure availability.
South Texas Eagle Ford Shale and Edwards
The Company’s drilling activities in the South Texas area during 2011 were primarily focused on delineation and development of Pioneer’s substantial acreage position in the Eagle Ford Shale play. The Company drilled 94 horizontal Eagle Ford Shale wells during 2011, with average lateral lengths of approximately 5,500 feet and 13-stage fracture stimulations. The Company plans to utilize 12 rigs in 2012 and drill approximately 125 wells. The 2012 drilling program will continue to focus on liquids-rich drilling, with only 15 percent of the wells designated to hold strategic dry gas acreage.
To improve the execution of its drilling and completions program in 2012 and reduce costs, the Company will operate two Company-owned fracture stimulation fleets totaling 100,000 horsepower. One fleet was placed in service in April 2011 and the other is expected to be operational during the first quarter of 2012. The Company is also utilizing a dedicated third-party fracture stimulation fleet, which commenced operating in April 2011 under a two-year contract.
The Company has also been testing the use of lower-cost white sand instead of ceramic proppant to fracture stimulate wells drilled in shallower areas of the field. Early well performance has been similar to direct offset ceramic-stimulated wells. The Company plans to continue to monitor the performance of these wells and plans to use white sand in 50 percent of its 2012 drilling program.
During June 2010, the Company entered into an Eagle Ford Shale joint venture transaction. Pursuant to the transaction, the Company entered into a purchase and sale agreement to sell 45 percent of its Eagle Ford Shale proved and unproved oil and gas properties to an unaffiliated third party for $212.0 million of cash proceeds, including normal closing adjustments. The terms of the transaction also provided that the purchaser will pay 75 percent (up to $886.8 million) of the Company’s defined exploration, drilling and completion costs attributable to the Eagle Ford Shale assets during the six years ending on July 1, 2016, subject to extension. As of December 31, 2011, $398.2 million of the carry obligation had been paid by the purchaser and the Company expects that the purchaser’s obligation will be satisfied by the end of 2012. The Company also sold a 49.9 percent member interest in EFS Midstream LLC (“EFS Midstream”), an entity formed by the Company to own and operate gathering facilities in the Eagle Ford Shale area, to the purchaser for $46.4 million of cash proceeds and deferred a $46.2 million associated net gain. The Company does not have voting control of EFS Midstream and does not consolidate its financial statements.
EFS Midstream is obligated to construct midstream assets in the Eagle Ford Shale area. Construction of the midstream assets is continuing, with the majority of the construction expected to be completed by 2013. Eight of the 12 planned central gathering plants (“CGPs”) were completed as of December 31, 2011. EFS Midstream plans to build three additional CGPs in 2012. As construction of CGPs is completed, EFS Midstream will provide gathering, treating and transportation services for the Company during a 20-year contractual term. The Company has invested $169.5 million of capital in EFS Midstream, $97.5 million of which was contributed during 2011. During June 2011, EFS Midstream entered into a $300 million, five-year revolving credit facility that is being used to fund infrastructure investments that exceed its operating cash flows.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
Barnett Shale
During 2011, the Company continued to increase its acreage position in the liquid-rich Barnett Shale Combo area in North Texas. In total, the Company has accumulated approximately 92,000 gross acres in the liquid-rich area of the field and has acquired approximately 340 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic covering its acreage. The Company’s total lease holdings in the Barnett Shale play now approximate 142,000 gross acres (108,000 net acres).
During 2011, the Company had two drilling rigs operating and drilled 44 Barnett Shale Combo wells. Pioneer plans to utilize two rigs during 2012 and is utilizing the 3-D seismic to high-grade its drilling location selections. The Company also commenced operating a Company-owned fracture stimulation fleet in the area during the second quarter of 2011.
Alaska
The Company owns a 70 percent working interest and is the operator of the Oooguruk development project. The Company has drilled 12 production wells and eight injection wells of the estimated 17 production and 16 injection wells planned to fully develop this project. The Company’s winter drilling program calls for two exploration wells (“Nuna #1” and “Sikumi #1”) to be drilled during the first quarter of 2012. The Nuna #1 well will be drilled from an onshore location to further evaluate the productivity of the Torok formation and the feasibility of future development expansion to the south. The Sikumi #1 well will be drilled from an ice pad on the west side of the Oooguruk unit to test the deeper Ivishak zone, which is the main producing horizon in the Prudhoe Bay field.
International
During 2011, the Company’s international operations were located in Tunisia and offshore South Africa. During February 2011, the Company completed the sale of the Company’s share holdings in Pioneer Tunisia to an unaffiliated third party. During December 2011, the Company committed to a plan to divest Pioneer South Africa during 2012. See Notes B and U of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for information regarding the sale of Pioneer Tunisia and the planned sale of Pioneer South Africa.
Selected Oil and Gas Information
The following tables set forth selected oil and gas information from continuing operations for the Company as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Because of normal production declines, increased or decreased drilling activities and the effects of acquisitions or divestitures, the historical information presented below should not be interpreted as being indicative of future results.
Production, price and cost data. The price that the Company receives for the oil and gas produced is largely a function of market supply and demand. Demand is impacted by general economic conditions, weather and other seasonal conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms. Over or under supply of oil or gas can result in substantial price volatility. Historically, commodity prices have been volatile and the Company expects that volatility to continue in the future. A substantial or extended decline in oil or gas prices or poor drilling results could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, cash flows, quantities of oil and gas reserves that may be economically produced and the Company’s ability to access capital markets.
The following tables set forth production, price and cost data with respect to the Company’s properties for 2011, 2010 and 2009. These amounts represent the Company’s historical results from operations without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions, divestitures or drilling activity that occurred during the respective years. The production amounts will not agree to the reserve volume tables in the “Unaudited Supplementary Information” section included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” due to field fuel volumes being included in the reserve volume tables.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA
(a) The Company records the amortization of deferred VPP revenue at a field level but does not record the results of its hedging activities at a field level. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had an obligation to deliver 1.3 million Bbls of oil under the VPP obligation. See Notes H and S of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for more information about the Company’s gathering, processing, transportation and fractionation agreements and VPP obligation, respectively.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA - (Continued)
(a) The Company records the amortization of deferred VPP revenue at a field level but does not record the results of its hedging activities at a field level.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA - (Continued)
(a) The Company records the amortization of deferred VPP revenue at a field level but does not record the results of its hedging activities at a field level.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
Productive wells. The following table sets forth the number of productive oil and gas wells attributable to the Company’s properties as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:
PRODUCTIVE WELLS (a)
(a) Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including shut-in wells and gas wells awaiting pipeline connections to commence deliveries and oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities. One or more completions in the same well bore are counted as one well. If any well in which one of the multiple completions is an oil completion, then the well is classified as an oil well. As of December 31, 2011, the Company owned interests in two gross wells containing multiple completions.
Leasehold acreage. The following table sets forth information about the Company’s developed, undeveloped and royalty leasehold acreage as of December 31, 2011:
LEASEHOLD ACREAGE
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
The following table sets forth the expiration dates of the leases on the Company’s gross and net undeveloped acres as of December 31, 2011:
(a) Acres expiring are based on contractual lease maturities.
(b) All acres subject to expiration during 2012 are in the United States. The Company may extend the leases prior to their expiration based upon 2012 planned activities or for other business reasons. In certain leases, the extension is only subject to the Company’s election to extend and the fulfillment of certain capital expenditures commitments. In other cases, the extensions are subject to the consent of third parties, and no assurance can be given that the requested extensions will be granted. See “Description of Properties” above for information regarding the Company’s drilling operations.
Drilling and other exploratory and development activities. The following table sets forth the number of gross and net wells drilled by the Company during 2011, 2010 and 2009 that were productive or dry holes. This information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there was any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and the oil and gas reserves generated thereby or the costs to the Company of productive wells compared to the costs of dry holes.
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
(a) Represents the ratio of those wells that were successfully completed as producing wells or wells capable of producing to total wells drilled and evaluated.
PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY
Present activities. The following table sets forth information about the Company’s wells that were in process of being drilled as of December 31, 2011:
ITEM 3.