ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The information included in this Report about the Company's oil, NGL and gas reserves as of December 31, 2003 was based on reserve reports audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. for the Company's major properties in the United States, Argentina, Canada and South Africa and reserve reports prepared by the Company's engineers for all other properties. The reserve audit conducted by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. in aggregate represented 87 percent of the Company's estimated proved quantities of reserves as of December 31, 2003. The information included in this Report about the Company's oil, NGL and gas reserves as of December 31, 2002 was based on reserve reports audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. for the Company's major properties in the United States, Canada and South Africa, reserve reports audited by Gaffney, Cline & Associates, Inc. for the Company's properties located in the Neuquen Basin in Argentina and reserve reports prepared by the Company's engineers for all other properties. The reserve audits conducted by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. and Gaffney, Cline & Associates, Inc., in aggregate, represented 71 percent of the Company's estimated proved quantities of reserves as of December 31, 2002. The information in this Report about the Company's oil, NGL and gas reserves as of December 31, 2001 was based on proved reserves as determined by the Company's engineers.
Numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond the Company's control. This Report contains estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves and the related future net revenues, which are based on various assumptions, including those prescribed by the SEC. Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates and could materially affect the estimated quantities and related Standardized Measure of proved reserves set forth in this Report. In addition, the Company's reserves may be subject to downward or upward revisions based on production performance, purchases or sales of properties, results of future exploration and development activities, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors. Therefore, estimates of the Standardized Measure of proved reserves should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the Company's assets.
Standardized Measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. It requires the use of oil and gas spot prices prevailing as of the date of computation. Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions. Standardized Measures as of any date are not necessarily indicative of future results of operations. Accordingly, estimates included herein of future net revenues may be materially different from the net revenues that are ultimately received.
The Company did not provide estimates of total proved oil and gas reserves during the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 or 2001 to any federal authority or agency, other than the SEC.
Proved Reserves
The Company's proved reserves totaled 789.1 million BOE at December 31, 2003, 736.7 million BOE at December 31, 2002 and 671.4 million BOE at December 31, 2001, representing $4.6 billion, $4.1 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, of Standardized Measure or $6.0 billion, $5.1 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, on a pre-tax basis. The seven and 11 percent increases in proved reserve volumes and Standardized Measure, respectively, during 2003 were primarily due to two core area acquisitions, discoveries in Gabon, the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Tunisia and positive reserve revisions due to increased commodity prices extending the estimated economic life of various properties, increased recoverable reserve estimates based on well performance and the addition of reserves resulting from the Company' expanded development drilling program. The ten and 65 percent increases in proved reserve volumes and Standardized Measure, respectively, during 2002 were attributable to an increase in commodity prices, the purchase of incremental interests in two core assets and the Company's successful capital investments.
On a BOE basis, 65 percent of the Company's total proved reserves at December 31, 2003 were proved developed reserves. Based on reserve information as of December 31, 2003, and using the Company's production information for the year then ended, the reserve-to-production ratio associated with the Company's proved reserves was 14.0 years on a BOE basis. The following table provides information regarding the Company's proved reserves and average daily production by geographic area as of and for the year ended December 31, 2003:
Finding Cost and Reserve Replacement
The Company's acquisition and finding costs per BOE for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were $6.64, $6.30 and $7.49 per BOE, respectively. The average acquisition and finding cost for the three-year period ended December 31, 2003 was $6.76 per BOE, representing an eight percent increase over the 2002 three-year average rate of $6.24 per BOE.
During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company replaced 193 percent of its annual production on a BOE basis (299 percent for oil and NGLs and 129 percent for gas). During 2002, the Company replaced 258 percent of its annual production on a BOE basis (384 percent for oil and NGLs and 144 percent for gas). During 2001, the Company replaced 208 percent of its annual production on a BOE basis (169 percent for oil and NGLs and 245 percent for gas). The Company's 2003 and 2002 reserve replacement percentages were the result of revisions of previous estimates including revisions related to changes in commodity prices, asset purchases and new discoveries and field extensions. The Company's 2001 reserve replacement percentage was primarily impacted by asset purchases and new discoveries and field extensions.
Description of Properties
As of December 31, 2003, the Company has production, development and/or exploration operations in the United States, Argentina, Canada, Gabon, South Africa and Tunisia.
Domestic. The Company's domestic operations are located in the Permian Basin, Mid-Continent, Gulf of Mexico and onshore Gulf Coast areas of the United States. The Company also has unproved properties in Alaska. Approximately 83 percent of the Company's domestic proved reserves at December 31, 2003 are located in the Spraberry, Hugoton and West Panhandle fields. These mature fields generate substantial operating cash flow and have a large portfolio of low risk infill drilling opportunities. The cash flows generated from these fields provide funding for the Company's other development and exploration activities both domestically and internationally. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company expended $563.0 million in domestic acquisition, exploration and development drilling activities. The Company has budgeted approximately $427 million for domestic exploration and development drilling expenditures for 2004.
Spraberry field. The Spraberry field was discovered in 1949 and encompasses eight counties in West Texas. The field is approximately 150 miles long and 75 miles wide at its widest point. The oil produced is West Texas Intermediate Sweet, and the gas produced is casinghead gas with an average energy content of 1,400 Btu per Mcf. The oil and gas are produced primarily from three formations, the upper and lower Spraberry and the Dean, at depths ranging from 6,700 feet to 9,200 feet. Recently, the Company has been adding the Wolfcamp formation at depths ranging from 9,300 feet to 10,300 feet to selected completions with successful results. The center of the Spraberry field was unitized in the late 1950s and early 1960s by the major oil companies; however, until the late 1980s there was very limited development activity in the field. The Company believes
the area offers excellent opportunities to enhance oil and gas reserves because of the numerous undeveloped infill drilling locations, many of which are reflected in the Company's proved undeveloped reserves, and the ability to reduce operating expenses through economies of scale.
During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company placed 123 Spraberry wells on production and drilled one developmental dry hole. The Company plans to drill approximately 114 development wells in the Spraberry field during 2004.
Hugoton field. The Hugoton field in southwest Kansas is one of the largest producing gas fields in the continental United States. The gas is produced from the Chase and Council Grove formations at depths ranging from 2,700 feet to 3,000 feet. The Company's Hugoton properties are located on approximately 257,000 gross acres (237,000 net acres), covering approximately 400 square miles. The Company has working interests in approximately 1,200 wells in the Hugoton field, about 1,000 of which it operates, and partial royalty interests in approximately 500 wells. The Company owns substantially all of the gathering and processing facilities, primarily the Satanta plant, that service its production from the Hugoton field. Such ownership allows the Company to control the production, gathering, processing and sale of its gas and NGL production.
The Company's Hugoton operated wells are capable of producing approximately 90 MMcf of wet gas per day (i.e., gas production at the wellhead before processing and before reduction for royalties), although actual production in the Hugoton field is limited by allowables set by state regulators. The Company estimates that it and other major producers in the Hugoton field produced at or near capacity during the year ended December 31, 2003. During 2003, the Company placed 18 development wells on production, drilled one developmental dry hole and had one well in progress as of December 31, 2003 in the Hugoton field. The plans for 2004 include drilling approximately 20 development wells.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the feasibility of infill drilling into the Council Grove Formation and may submit an application to the Kansas Corporation Commission to allow infill drilling. Such infill drilling may increase production from the Company's Hugoton properties. However, until an application has been submitted and approved, the Company will not reflect any of the infill drilling locations as proved undeveloped reserves. There can be no assurance that the application will be filed or approved, or as to the timing of such approval if granted.
West Panhandle field. The West Panhandle properties are located in the panhandle region of Texas where initial production commenced in 1918. These stable, long-lived reserves are attributable to the Red Cave, Brown Dolomite, Granite Wash and fractured Granite formations at depths no greater than 3,500 feet. The Company's gas in the West Panhandle field has an average energy content of 1,300 Btu per Mcf and is produced from approximately 600 wells on more than 241,000 acres covering over 375 square miles. The Company's wellhead gas produced from the West Panhandle field contains a high quantity of NGLs, yielding relatively greater NGL volumes than realized from the Company's 1,025 Btu per Mcf content wellhead gas in its Hugoton field. The Company controls the wells, production equipment, gathering system and gas processing plant for the field.
During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company placed 71 new development wells on production, drilled four development wells that were plugged and abandoned due to noncommerciality and had 24 development wells and two extension wells in progress at December 31, 2003. The Company plans to drill approximately 111 wells in the West Panhandle field during 2004.
Gulf of Mexico area. In the Gulf of Mexico, the Company is focused on reserve and production growth through a portfolio of shelf and deepwater development projects, high-impact, higher-risk deepwater exploration drilling, shelf exploration drilling and exploitation opportunities inherent in the properties the Company currently has producing on the shelf. To accomplish this, the Company has devoted most of its domestic exploration efforts to the Gulf of Mexico shelf and deepwater as well as investments in and utilization of 3-D seismic technology. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company successfully drilled three exploratory wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and one successful development well on the shelf. The Company also drilled four exploratory dry holes on the shelf and two exploratory dry holes in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico during 2003 and had four exploratory wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and one exploratory well on the shelf in progress as of December 31, 2003.
In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Company has three major projects, two of which are now on production and one that was in progress at December 31, 2003:
o Canyon Express - The Canyon Express development project is a joint development of three deepwater Gulf of Mexico gas discoveries, including the Company's TotalFinaElf-operated Aconcagua and Marathon-operated Camden Hills fields, where the Company holds 37.5 percent and 33.3 percent working interests, respectively. The Company participated in the discovery of the Aconcagua gas field in 1999 during the early stages of building its exploration program, and later added Camden Hills to its portfolio to enhance its ownership in the project. The Canyon Express project was approved for development in June 2000 and reached first production in September 2002. The Canyon Express gathering system is the first in the area and provides the Company and its partners with the opportunity to collect gathering and handling revenues from the use of the system by any future discoveries in the area. The Company has plans to drill and complete an additional development well at Aconcagua during 2004.
o Falcon Area - The Company-operated Falcon two-well field was completed ahead of schedule and placed on production in March 2003. During the first quarter of 2003, the Company drilled its Harrier discovery, along with two exploratory dry holes. The Company also acquired the remaining 25 percent working interest in the Falcon field, Harrier discovery and surrounding prospects that it did not already own in March 2003. In addition, during the third quarter of 2003, the Company successfully drilled the Tomahawk and Raptor prospects. All three discoveries, Harrier, Tomahawk and Raptor, will be developed as single-well subsea tie-backs to the Falcon field facilities which were designed to be expandable. To accommodate this incremental production and potential throughput associated with additional planned exploration, an additional parallel pipeline connecting the Falcon field to the Falcon platform on the Gulf of Mexico shelf has been added, doubling its capacity to 400 MMcf of gas per day. The Company placed the Harrier field on production in early January 2004 and plans to place Tomahawk and Raptor on production in mid-2004. In addition to the development operations discussed above, the Company has budgeted to drill up to three additional Falcon area prospects in 2004.
o Devils Tower - The Dominion-operated Devils Tower development project was sanctioned in 2001 as a spar development project with the owners leasing a spar from a third party for the life of the field. The hull of the spar was constructed in Indonesia and was successfully transported to the United States during the first quarter of 2003 where the topsides were added in the fourth quarter of 2003. The spar has slots for eight dry tree wells and up to two subsea tie-back risers and is capable of handling 60 MBbls of oil per day and 60 MMcf of gas per day. Eight Devils Tower wells and one subsea tie-back well, the Triton field, have been drilled and are awaiting completion. In addition, the Company has drilled an appraisal well at Triton that was successful subsequent to year end and an exploration well is in progress on its Goldfinger prospect. Devils Tower production is expected to begin in mid-2004 and will be phased in as the wells are individually completed from the spar. The Company holds a 25 percent working interest in each of the above projects.
During 2002, the Company also participated in the Marathon-operated deepwater Gulf of Mexico Ozona Deep discovery. The Company is currently negotiating a tie-back agreement to an existing facility in the area, the economics of which will determine future activities. In late 2003, the Company spudded an exploratory well on the BP-operated Juno prospect with a 25 percent working interest and an exploratory well on the Unocal-operated Myrtle Beach prospect with a 10 percent working interest, each of which remains in progress with results expected to be known in February 2004. The Company also plans to spud an exploratory well on the Dominion-operated Thunder Hawk prospect during 2004. The Company has a 12.5 percent working interest in Thunder Hawk.
During January 2003, the Company announced a joint exploration agreement with Woodside Energy (USA), Inc. ("Woodside"), a subsidiary of Woodside Energy Ltd. of Australia, for a two-year drilling program over the shallow-water Texas shelf region of the Gulf of Mexico. Under the agreement, Woodside acquired a 50 percent working interest in 47 offshore exploration blocks operated by the Company. The agreement covers eight prospects and 19 leads and included five exploratory wells to be drilled in 2003 and three in 2004. Most of the wells to be drilled under the agreement will target gas plays below 15,000 feet. The first three wells under this joint agreement were unsuccessful. The fourth well, Midway, subsequent to December 31, 2003 encountered 30 feet of net gas pay and is expected to be tied back to an existing production platform with first production anticipated during the second half of 2004. Three other intervals with an additional 60 feet of gas bearing sands were also encountered and will require additional analysis to determine future commercial potential. The
Company has a 37.5 percent working interest in this well. The fifth well to be drilled in 2003 and the three wells scheduled for 2004 under the agreement, which has been extended for one additional year, were mutually agreed to be deferred until more technical work can be performed on the prospects by both companies. Additionally, the Company and Woodside are evaluating shallower gas prospects on the Gulf of Mexico shelf for possible inclusion in the 2004 drilling program.
Onshore Gulf Coast area. The Company has focused its drilling efforts in this area on the Pawnee field in the Edwards Reef trend in South Texas. The Company placed five development wells and one extension well on production at Pawnee during 2003, had two wells in progress at year end and plans to drill approximately ten wells in 2004.
Alaska area. During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company acquired a 70 percent working interest and operatorship in ten state leases on Alaska's North Slope. Associated therewith, the Company drilled three exploratory wells during the first quarter of 2003 to test a possible extension of the productive sands in the Kuparuk River field into the shallow waters offshore. Although all three of the wells found the sands filled with oil, they were too thin to be considered commercial on a stand-alone basis. However, the wells also encountered thick sections of oil-bearing Jurassic-aged sands, and the first well flowed at a sustained rate of approximately 1,300 barrels per day. The test results are continuing to be evaluated to determine the commercial viability of the Jurassic reservoir. Subsequent to year end, the Company farmed-into a large acreage block to the southwest of the Company's discovery. During 2004, the Company plans to evaluate seismic data over the area to the southwest of its discovery, analyze results from other wells drilled in the area and determine the location of future exploration wells to further test the discovery.
In addition, the Company was the high bidder on 53 tracts covering an additional 159,000 acres on the North Slope in the most recent state lease sale, establishing a leasehold over a variety of prospects. The Company has opened an office in Anchorage and is putting together a team of employees that will focus their efforts on enhancing the Company's position in Alaska.
International. The Company's international operations are located in the Neuquen and Austral Basins areas of Argentina, the Chinchaga, Martin Creek and Lookout Butte areas of Canada, the Sable oil field offshore South Africa and in southern Tunisia. Additionally, the Company has other significant oil development and exploration activities in the shallow waters offshore Gabon, gas exploration activities in the shallow waters offshore South Africa and oil development and exploration activities in Tunisia. As of December 31, 2003, approximately 16 percent, two percent and three percent of the Company's proved reserves are located in Argentina, Canada and Africa, respectively.
Argentina. The Company's share of Argentine production during the year ended December 31, 2003 averaged 25.7 MBOE per day, or approximately 17 percent of the Company's equivalent production. The Company's operated production in Argentina is concentrated in the Neuquen Basin which is located about 925 miles southwest of Buenos Aires and to the east of the Andes Mountains. Oil and gas are produced primarily from the Al Norte de la Dorsal, the Al Sur de la Dorsal, the Dadin, the Loma Negra, the Dos Hermanas, the Anticlinal Campamento and the Estacion Fernandez Oro blocks, in each of which the Company has a 100 percent working interest. Most of the gas produced from these blocks is processed in the Company's Loma Negra gas processing plant. The Company also operates and has a 50 percent working interest in the Lago Fuego field which is located in Tierra del Fuego, an island in the extreme southern portion of Argentina, approximately 1,500 miles south of Buenos Aires.
Most of the Company's non-operated production in Argentina is located in Tierra del Fuego where oil, gas and NGLs are produced from six separate fields in which the Company has a 35 percent working interest. The Company also has a 14.4 percent working interest in the Confluencia field which is located in the Neuquen Basin.
During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company expended $52.1 million on Argentine development, exploration and acquisition activities. The Company drilled 31 development wells and 30 extension/exploratory wells, of which 29 development wells and 21 extension/exploratory wells were successful. Also during 2003, the Company acquired an additional 150,000 acres in the Ojo de Agua, Cutral Co Sur and Collun Cura blocks in the Neuquen Basin and shot seismic covering approximately 258,000 acres. The Company plans to be more active in Argentina in 2004 with approximately $113 million budgeted for oil and gas development and exploration opportunities.
Canada. The Company's Canadian producing properties are located primarily in Alberta and British Columbia, Canada. Production during the year ended December 31, 2003 averaged 8.0 MBOE per day, or approximately five percent of the Company's equivalent production. The Company continues to focus its development, exploration and acquisition activities in the core areas of northeast British Columbia and southwest Alberta. The Canadian assets are geographically concentrated, predominantly shallow gas and more than 95 percent operated by the Company in the following areas: Chinchaga, Martin Creek and Lookout Butte.
Production from the Chinchaga area in northeast British Columbia is relatively dry gas from formation depths averaging 3,400 feet. In the Martin Creek area of British Columbia, production is relatively dry gas from various reservoirs ranging from 3,700 feet to 4,300 feet. The Lookout Butte area in southwest Alberta produces gas and condensate from the Mississippian Turner Valley formation at approximately 12,000 feet.
During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company expended $53.0 million on Canadian exploration, development, and acquisition activities. The Company drilled 14 development wells and 42 exploratory/extension wells, primarily in the Chinchaga and Martin Creek areas, of which seven development wells and 16 exploratory/extension wells were successful. Most of these wells were drilled during the first quarter of 2003 as these areas are only accessible for drilling during the winter months. The Company plans to spend approximately $31 million on oil and gas development and exploration opportunities in Canada during 2004.
Africa. In Africa, the Company has entered into agreements to explore for oil and gas in South Africa, Gabon and Tunisia. The amended South African agreements cover over five million acres along the southern coast of South Africa, generally in water depths less than 650 feet. The Gabon agreement covers 313,937 acres off the coast of Gabon, generally in water depths less than 100 feet. The Tunisian agreements can be separated into two categories: the first includes three permits covering 2.9 million acres onshore southern Tunisia which the Company operates with a 50 percent working interest and the second includes the Anadarko-operated Anaguid permit covering 1.2 million acres onshore southern Tunisia in which the Company has a 38.7 percent working interest and the AGIP-operated Adam concession and Borj El Khadra permit covering 212,420 acres and 969,755 acres, respectively, onshore southern Tunisia in which the Company has a 28 percent and 40 percent working interest, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company expended $52.9 million of acquisition, development and exploration drilling and seismic capital in South Africa, Gabon and Tunisia.
South Africa. In South Africa, the Company spent $32.8 million of capital to complete its Petro SA-operated Sable development project and to drill three exploratory wells that were dry holes. The Sable oil field began producing in August 2003. The Company has a 40% working interest in the Sable field. In 2004, the Company currently plans to spend approximately $9 million in South Africa for production enhancement opportunities at Sable and for an exploration well late in the year.
Gabon. In Gabon, the Company spent $4.4 million of development and seismic capital to further evaluate its Bigorneau South discovery, located offshore in the Southern Gabon Basin on its Olowi permit. Pioneer is the operator of the permit with a 100 percent working interest. To date, the Company has drilled four successful offshore wells which have established significant oil in place. The Company recently received ministerial approval for improved terms associated with the Olowi permit. Subsequent to year end, the Company has commenced a multi-well drilling program to further define the scale of a development plan, initially focusing on the Lower Gamba, and to test a new exploratory prospect. The Company is also soliciting bids from possible new partners in the project.
Tunisia. In Tunisia, the Company spent $15.6 million of acquisition, drilling and seismic capital during the year ended December 31, 2003 primarily to drill one successful development well in its Adam concession, one successful exploratory well in its AGIP-operated Hawa oil field and one exploratory well that was a dry hole in its Company-operated Jorf permit. The Hawa oil field started production in January 2004. In addition, the Company also drilled two exploratory wells on its Anadarko-operated Anaguid permit that remain in progress as of December 31, 2003. The Company also completed the construction of a 15 kilometer flowline from the Adam discovery to an AGIP-operated facility, allowing production to begin in May 2003. The capital budget of approximately $14 million for Tunisia in 2004 includes an exploration well and development well in the Adam concession, two exploration wells on the Company- operated El Hamra permit and two appraisal wells on the Anaguid permit.
Selected Oil and Gas Information
The following tables set forth selected oil and gas information for the Company as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. Because of normal production declines, increased or decreased drilling activities and the effects of past and future acquisitions or divestitures, the historical information presented below should not be interpreted as being indicative of future results.
Production, price and cost data. The following table sets forth production, price and cost data with respect to the Company's properties for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001:
PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA (a)
Productive wells. The following table sets forth the number of productive oil and gas wells attributable to the Company's properties as of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001: PRODUCTIVE WELLS (a)
Leasehold acreage. The following table sets forth information about the Company's developed, undeveloped and royalty leasehold acreage as of December 31, 2003:
LEASEHOLD ACREAGE
Drilling activities. The following table sets forth the number of gross and net productive and dry wells in which the Company had an interest that were drilled during the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. This information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there was any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and the oil and gas reserves generated thereby or the costs to the Company of productive wells compared to the costs of dry holes.
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
The following table sets forth information about the Company's wells upon which drilling was in progress as of December 31, 2003:
ITEM 3.