ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The information included in this Report about the Company's oil, NGL and gas reserves as of December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, including Standardized Measure, is based on proved reserves as determined by the Company's engineers.
Numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond the Company's control. This Report contains estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves and the related future net revenues, which are based on various assumptions, including those prescribed by the SEC. Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses, geologic success and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates and could materially affect the estimated quantities and related Standardized Measure of proved reserves set forth in this Report. In addition, the Company's reserves may be subject to downward or upward revisions based on production performance, purchases or sales of properties, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors. Therefore, estimates of the Standardized Measure of proved reserves should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the Company's proved reserves.
Standardized Measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. It requires the use of oil and gas spot prices prevailing as of the
date of computation. Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions. Standardized Measures as of any date are not necessarily indicative of future results of operations. Accordingly, estimates included herein of future net revenues may be materially different from the net revenues that are ultimately received.
The Company did not provide estimates of total proved oil and gas reserves during 2001, 2000 or 1999 to any federal authority or agency, other than the SEC.
Proved Reserves
The Company's proved reserves totaled 671.4 million BOE at December 31, 2001, 628.2 million BOE at December 31, 2000 and 605.5 million BOE at December 31, 1999, representing $2.5 billion, $5.6 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, of Standardized Measure. The seven percent increase in proved reserve volumes during 2001 was primarily attributable to the Company's successful capital investments, while the 56 percent decrease in Standardized Measure during 2001 was primarily due to decreases in commodity prices. The four percent increase in proved reserve volumes in 2000 was primarily attributable to the Company's successful capital investments, while the 93 percent increase in Standardized Measure during 2000 was primarily due to increases in commodity prices.
On a BOE basis, 70 percent of the Company's total proved reserves at December 31, 2001 are proved developed reserves. Based on reserve information as of December 31, 2001, and using the Company's reserve report production information for 2002, the reserve-to-production ratio associated with the Company's proved reserves is 14 years on a BOE basis. The following table provides information regarding the Company's proved reserves and average daily production by geographic area as of and for the year ended December 31, 2001.
PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES AND AVERAGE DAILY PRODUCTION
Alternate Reserve Case
In addition to the proved reserve table above, the Company calculated an alternative reserve case, as presented below, utilizing an assumed WTI Cushing, Oklahoma spot oil price of $22.00 per Bbl and an assumed Henry Hub, Louisiana spot gas price of $3.50 per Mcf as compared to the year-end proved reserve calculation which used a WTI Cushing, Oklahoma spot oil price of $19.76 per Bbl and a Henry Hub, Louisiana spot gas price of $2.73 per Mcf. The alternative reserve case has all of the same assumptions as the proved reserve case at year end, other than pricing.
The alternative reserve case represents the minimum pricing assumptions that the Company used to make investment decisions during 2001. Such investment decisions required, among other items, a discounted return on investment greater than 150 percent prior to approval.
In addition to the alternate reserve case above, the Company estimates that the potential incremental value from other exploration and extension opportunities on the Canyon Express, Devils Tower and Falcon deepwater Gulf of Mexico discoveries and Sable discovery in South Africa to be as much as $285 million using the same alternate reserve case assumptions. The Company also calculated an alternate discount rate for the Company's long-lived Spraberry, Hugoton and West Panhandle fields. The Company estimates that the incremental value of these long-lived reserves using an eight percent discount rate versus a ten percent discount rate under the same alternate reserve case parameters is approximately $165 million.
No assurance can be given that future commodity prices will be similar to the prices utilized in the alternate reserve case since commodity prices have historically been very volatile. Furthermore, oil and gas reserve quantity estimates are subject to numerous uncertainties inherent in the estimation of quantities of reserves and in the projection of future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. The accuracy of such estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Results of subsequent drilling, testing and production may cause either upward or downward revision of previous estimates. In addition, the volumes considered to be commercially recoverable fluctuate with changes in prices and operating costs. The Company emphasizes that reserve estimates are inherently imprecise and that estimates of undrilled prospects and new discoveries are significantly more imprecise than those of currently producing oil and gas properties. Accordingly, these estimates are expected to change as additional information becomes available in the future.
The Company's stockholders and other users of this information should not assume that the Alternate Standardized Measure is the current market value of the Company's estimated reserves. The Company calculated the Alternate Standardized Measure based on estimated reserves calculated using the price and cost assumptions referred to above. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Additionally, the Alternate Standardized Measure does not include estimates of the Company's future administrative expense or borrowing costs, the incurrence of which are ordinary expenditures for the conduct of business.
Finding Cost and Reserve Replacement
The Company's acquisition and finding costs per BOE for 2001, 2000 and 1999 were $7.49, $4.66 and $2.21 per BOE, respectively. The average acquisition and finding cost for the three-year period from 1999 to 2001 was $4.74 per BOE, representing a 32 percent decrease over the 2000 three-year average rate of $6.94 per BOE.
During 2001, the Company replaced 208 percent of its annual production on a BOE basis (169 percent for oil and NGLs and 245 percent for gas). During 2000, the Company replaced 167 percent of its annual production on a BOE basis (196 percent for oil and NGLs and 140 percent for gas). During 1999, the Company replaced 178 percent of its annual production on a BOE basis (262 percent for oil and NGLs and 99 percent for gas). The Company's 2001 reserve replacement
percentage was primarily impacted by asset purchases and new discoveries and field extensions while the 2000 and 1999 reserve replacement percentages were primarily impacted by changes in commodity prices.
Description of Properties
As of December 31, 2001, the Company has production, development and exploration operations in the United States, Argentina, Canada and South Africa, and exploration opportunities in Gabon and Tunisia.
Domestic. The Company's domestic operations are located in the Permian Basin, Mid Continent, Gulf of Mexico and onshore Gulf Coast areas of the United States. Approximately 81 percent of the Company's domestic proved reserves are located in the Spraberry, Hugoton and West Panhandle fields. The mature Spraberry, Hugoton and West Panhandle fields generate substantial operating cash flow and have a portfolio of low risk infill drilling opportunities. The cash flows generated from these fields provide funding for the Company's other development and exploration activities both domestically and internationally. During 2001, the Company expended $334.2 million in domestic acquisition, exploration and development drilling activities. The Company has budgeted approximately $260 million for domestic acquisition, exploration and development drilling expenditures for 2002.
Spraberry field. The Spraberry field was discovered in 1949 and encompasses eight counties in West Texas. The field is approximately 150 miles long and 75 miles wide at its widest point. The oil produced is West Texas Intermediate Sweet, and the gas produced is casinghead gas with an average energy content of 1,400 Btu per Mcf. The oil and gas are produced from three formations, the upper and lower Spraberry and the Dean, at depths ranging from 6,700 feet to 9,200 feet. The center of the Spraberry field was unitized in the late 1950's and early 1960's by the major oil companies; however, until the late 1980's there was very limited development activity in the field. Since 1989, the Company has focused its development drilling activities in the unitized portion of the Spraberry field due to the dormant condition of the properties. The Company believes the area offers excellent opportunities to enhance oil and gas reserves because of the hundreds of undeveloped infill drilling locations, all of which are reflected in the Company's proved undeveloped reserves, and the ability to reduce operating expenses through economies of scale.
During 2001, the Company placed 131 Spraberry wells on production, drilled one developmental dry hole and, at December 31, 2001, had 17 wells in progress. The Company is continuing to evaluate its 2002 Spraberry drilling program and has postponed the program until drilling costs align more favorably with commodity prices.
Hugoton field. The Hugoton field in southwest Kansas is one of the largest producing gas fields in the continental United States. The gas is produced from the Chase and Council Grove formations at depths ranging from 2,700 feet to 3,000 feet. The Company's Hugoton properties represent approximately 13 percent of the proved reserves in the field and are located on approximately 257,000 gross acres (237,000 net acres), covering approximately 400 square miles. The Company has working interests in approximately 1,200 wells in the Hugoton field, about 1,000 of which it operates, and partial royalty interests in approximately 500 wells. The Company owns substantially all of the gathering and processing facilities, primarily the Satanta plant, that service its production from the Hugoton field. Such ownership allows the Company to control the production, gathering, processing and sale of its gas and associated NGLs.
Production in the Hugoton field is subject to allowables set by state regulators, but the Company's Hugoton operated wells are capable of producing approximately 106 MMcf of wet gas per day (i.e., gas production at the wellhead before processing and before reduction for royalties). The Company estimates that it and other major producers in the Hugoton field produced at or near capacity in 2001. During 2001, the Company completed 12 development wells in the Hugoton field. The Company does not plan to drill any Hugoton development wells in 2002 given the recent downturn in gas prices.
The Company is evaluating the feasibility of infill drilling into the Council Grove Formation and may submit an application to the Kansas Corporation Commission to allow infill drilling. Such infill drilling may increase production from the Company's Hugoton properties. However, until an application has been approved, the Company will not reflect any of the infill drilling locations as proved undeveloped reserves. There can be no assurance that the application will be filed or approved, or as to the timing of such approval if granted.
West Panhandle field. The West Panhandle properties are located in the panhandle region of Texas where initial production commenced in 1918. These stable, long-lived reserves are attributable to the Red Cave, Brown Dolomite, Granite Wash and fractured Granite formations at depths no greater than 3,500 feet. The Company's gas in the West Panhandle field has an average energy content of 1,300 Btu per Mcf and is produced from approximately 600 wells on more than 241,000 gross (185,000 net) acres covering over 375 square miles. The Company's wellhead gas produced from the West Panhandle field contains a high quantity of NGLs, yielding relatively greater NGL volumes than realized from the Company's 1,025 Btu per Mcf content wellhead gas in its Hugoton field. The Company operates the wells, production equipment and, since May 2001, the Colorado Interstate Gas Company - (a subsidiary of El Paso Energy Corp.) owned gathering system. Production from the West Panhandle field is processed through the Company-owned and operated Fain natural gas processing plant.
During 2001, the Company placed 29 new wells on production and had one additional well in progress at December 31, 2001. The Company is evaluating its plans for 2002 given the recent declines in oil and gas prices and has not determined how many, if any, wells will be drilled in the West Panhandle field during 2002.
Gulf of Mexico area. In the Gulf of Mexico, the Company is focused on reserve and production growth through a portfolio of shelf and deepwater development projects, high-impact, higher-risk deepwater exploration drilling, shelf exploration drilling and exploitation opportunities inherent in the properties the Company currently has producing on the shelf. To accomplish this, the Company has devoted most of its domestic exploration efforts to these two areas, as well as its investment in and utilization of 3-D seismic technology. During 2001, the Company successfully drilled one development and four exploratory wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and four development and four exploration wells on the shelf. The Company also drilled two exploratory dry holes in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and three exploratory dry holes on the shelf during 2001 and had one shelf and two deepwater development wells and one shelf and one deepwater exploration well in progress as of December 31, 2001.
In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Company has sanctioned three major development projects that are in progress at December 31, 2001:
o Canyon Express - The TotalFinaElf-operated Aconcagua and the Marathon-operated Camden Hills discoveries in Mississippi Canyon are being jointly developed as part of the Canyon Express gas project. Facilities construction and well completions are underway and installation is in-progress for the TotalFinaElf-operated Canyon Express subsea gathering system with production scheduled to begin during July 2002. Wells will be brought on sequentially and are expected to achieve a peak rate of approximately 110 MMcf of gas per day and 180 Bbls of condensate per day net to the Company. During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company acquired an incremental 12.5 percent interest in the Aconcagua field and a 5.5 percent interest in the Canyon Express subsea gathering system for $25.5 million. The Company's ownership positions in this project are now comprised of a 23.5 percent equity interest in the Canyon Express subsea gathering system, a 37.5 percent working interest in Aconcagua and a 33 percent working interest in Camden Hills.
o Devils Tower - At the Dominion-operated Devils Tower development project in Mississippi Canyon, the Company successfully drilled two wells to explore for new reserves in previously undrilled reservoirs and to further extend the previously tested zones. During 2001, the project was sanctioned as a spar development project with the owners leasing a spar from a third party for the life of the field. Construction of the spar is underway, two development wells and one extension well were in progress as of December 31, 2001, and production is anticipated to begin during the second quarter of 2003. One additional development well will be drilled during 2002. The wells will be brought on sequentially with peak production expected to reach 8,000 to 10,000 BOEs per day net to the Company's 25 percent working interest.
o Falcon - The Mariner-operated Falcon project, which was recently sanctioned, was successfully drilled and sidetracked during 2001. The Company owns a 45 percent working interest in this discovery and was the successful bidder on 21 deepwater Gulf of Mexico blocks, 12 of which are near the Falcon discovery that the Company shares with its partner, Mariner. Two additional development wells are planned for Falcon during 2002. Initial production from Falcon is anticipated during the first quarter of 2003 at expected rates of 79 MMcf of gas per day and 220 Bbls of condensate per day net to the Company's interest.
In addition to the development projects described above in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Company drilled the Dominion-operated Turnberry prospect during 2001. The well encountered hydrocarbon bearing sands; however, sidetrack operations on the Turnberry discovery were unsuccessful and evaluations of the initial wellbore using a 3-D seismic survey are in progress to determine if the discovery has commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. If commercial quantities of hydrocarbons cannot be confirmed during the first quarter of 2002, the Company will recognize a $9.3 million charge to exploration and abandonments for the costs of the initial exploratory well. The Company also drilled its Argo prospect during 2001 which was unsuccessful.
During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company participated in the drilling of the Marathon-operated Ozona Deep prospect that was successfully drilled. The well encountered approximately 345 feet of net oil pay in two intervals and one or two appraisal wells are planned for Ozona Deep in the first half of 2002. In addition to the development projects discussed above and Ozona Deep, the Company plans to drill one or two additional exploratory wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico during 2002.
On the Gulf of Mexico shelf, the Company participated in drilling five prospects during 2001 in addition to initiating an extensive production optimization program at the Company's Inland Bay fields in south Louisiana. First, the Texaco-operated Cyrus prospect was sanctioned during 2001 and development plans are underway with production expected to commence during the fourth quarter of 2002 at expected initial rates of 2.3 MMcf of gas per day and 360 Bbls of condensate per day net to the Company's 5.7 percent working interest. Second, the Aviara-operated Oneida prospect was successfully drilled and is currently being completed. Initial production is anticipated during the second quarter of 2002 at expected rates of 1.1 MMcf of gas per day and 30 Bbls of condensate per day net to the Company's 13.7 percent working interest. Third, the Company participated in the Spinnaker-operated Stirrup prospect during 2001, in which the Company owns a 25 percent working interest. An initial discovery well was drilled and tested at gross rates over 21 MMcf of gas per day and 130 Bbls of condensate per day. A second and third well were successfully drilled and platform construction, as well as completion operations, have commenced. The Company anticipates first production in April 2002 at expected initial rates of 2.7 MMcf of gas per day and 20 Bbls of condensate per day net to the Company's interest. Finally, the Company drilled its Cruiser and Malta prospects during 2001 that were plugged and abandoned since commercial quantities of hydrocarbons were not present.
The Company has also initiated an effort to reevaluate all of its current producing properties on the shelf to determine if there are additional recompletion opportunities or development or exploration drilling opportunities on those properties. The Company drilled an exploratory dry hole in one of its Inland Bay fields and has initiated workover and recompletion programs in these fields. The Company has been applying new technology to the fields in an attempt to identify untapped potential in the multiple pay zones of these fields that may have been missed over the years. Results in the program have been encouraging with a production increase of approximately 1,500 BOE per day having been achieved during 2001. The program will be continued during 2002, but to a lesser extent, given lower commodity prices. In addition to this project, the Company plans to drill a limited number of exploratory prospects on the shelf during 2002.
Onshore Gulf Coast area. The Company has focused its drilling efforts in this area on the Pawnee field in the Edwards Reef trend in South Texas. The Company drilled eight development wells at Pawnee during 2001 and plans to drill three more in the first quarter of 2002. Since the Company began this successful program, net production has more than tripled, increasing from 11 MMcf per day at the end of 1999 to 37 MMcf per day at the end of 2001. The Company is also continuing its development drilling in East Texas and is drilling an exploration well in North Louisiana. Activities in these areas will be scaled back during 2002 given the lower commodity price environment.
International. The Company's international operations are located in the Neuquen and Austral Basins areas of Argentina and the Chinchaga, Martin Creek and Lookout Butte areas of Canada. Additionally, the Company's fourth significant development project, the Sable oil field located in shallow water offshore South Africa, is scheduled for first production in early 2003. The Company has also entered into agreements to explore for oil and gas reserves in South Africa, Gabon and Tunisia. As of December 31, 2001, approximately 17 percent, four percent and one percent of the Company's proved reserves are located in Argentina, Canada and South Africa, respectively.
Argentina. The Company's share of Argentine production during 2001 averaged 24.9 MBOE per day, or approximately 22 percent of the Company's equivalent production. The Company's operated production in Argentina is concentrated in the Neuquen Basin which is located about 925 miles southwest of Buenos Aires and just to the east of the Andes Mountains. Oil and gas are produced primarily from the Loma Negra/NI Block, the Neuquen del Medio Block, the Al Sur de la Dorsal Block and the Estacion Fernandez Oro Block, in each of which the Company has a 100 percent working interest. During 2001, the Company acquired a 100 percent working interest in the Anticlinal Campamento producing field as well as two exploration blocks, Cerro Vagon and Dos Hermanas. The Company also increased its interest in the La Calera and Bajo Baguales exploration blocks during 2001.
The production concession in the Austral Basin is located in Tierra del Fuego, which is an island in the extreme southern portion of Argentina, approximately 1,500 miles south of Buenos Aires. Oil, gas and NGLs are produced from six separate fields in which the Company has a 35 percent working interest. Currently, production is being sent to the mainland through oil tankers and gas pipelines and exported to Chile through pipelines. Also in the Austral Basin is the Company-operated Lago Fuego Block, which started operations during 2001. Production from this block is mainly gas and NGLs which are sold to the city of Ushuaia and other local markets. The Company holds a 50 percent working interest in the Lago Fuego Block.
During 2001, the Company expended $98.1 million on Argentine acquisition, exploration and development activities and drilled 20 development wells and 42 extension/exploratory wells in Argentina, of which 19 development wells and 26 extension/exploratory wells were successful. The Company plans to spend approximately $15 million in Argentina during 2002 to principally complete construction of its Loma Negra gas plant. Other significant capital projects have been suspended at this time due to the economic instability in Argentina and the resulting devaluation of the Argentine peso.
Canada. The Company's Canadian producing properties are located primarily in Alberta and British Columbia, Canada. Production during 2001 averaged 10.3 MBOE per day, or approximately nine percent of the Company's equivalent production. The Company continues to focus its development, exploration and acquisition activities in the core areas of northeast British Columbia and southwest Alberta. The Canadian assets are geographically concentrated, predominantly shallow gas and more than 95 percent operated by the Company in the following areas: Chinchaga, Martin Creek and Lookout Butte.
Production from the Chinchaga area in northeast British Columbia is relatively dry gas from formation depths averaging 3,400 feet. In the Martin Creek area of British Columbia, production is relatively dry gas from various reservoirs ranging from 3,700 feet to 4,300 feet. The Lookout Butte area in southwest Alberta produces gas and condensate from the Mississippian Turner Valley formation at approximately 12,000 feet. The Company sold its interest in the Rycroft/Spirit River area waterflood in northwest Alberta in December 2001 for approximately $12.0 million.
During 2001, the Company expended $37.5 million on Canadian exploration and development activities and drilled 26 development wells and 25 exploratory wells primarily in the Chinchaga and Martin Creek areas, of which 24 development wells and 12 exploratory wells were successful. Most of these wells were drilled during the first quarter as these areas are only accessible for drilling during the winter months. The Company, as operator, plans to drill approximately 19 wells and expand facility and compressor capacity to 50 MMcf of gas per day at the Company-owned Chinchaga plant during 2002. The Company expects to participate in an additional four wells operated by another company in the same area. The Company plans to spend approximately $25 million on oil and gas development and exploration opportunities in Canada during 2002.
Africa. In Africa, the Company has entered into agreements to explore for oil and gas in South Africa, Gabon and Tunisia. The South African agreements cover over 13 million acres along the southern coast of South Africa, generally in water depths less than 650 feet. The Gabon agreement covers over 314,000 acres off the coast of Gabon, generally in water depths less than 100 feet. The Tunisian agreements can be separated into two categories. The first includes three permits covering 2.7 million acres onshore southern Tunisia which the Company operates with a 50 percent working interest. The second includes the Anadarko-operated Anaguid permit covering 1.1 million acres onshore southern Tunisia in which the Company has a 30 percent working interest. During 2001, the Company expended $59.9 million of acquisition, development and exploration drilling and seismic capital in South Africa, Gabon and Tunisia. The Company
drilled four exploratory wells in South Africa during 2001, of which two were successful. In addition, a successful exploratory well was drilled off the coast of Gabon and a dry hole was drilled in Tunisia.
South Africa. In South Africa, the Company spent $39.3 million of drilling and seismic capital to drill two wells on its Company-operated Boomslang prospect, in which the Company has a 49 percent working interest, drill a gas appraisal well on the Soekor-operated E-BB tract, in which the Company has a 40 percent working interest, and acquire two 3-D seismic surveys. The initial Boomslang well was successful while the appraisal well was unsuccessful. One of the two seismic surveys was acquired over the Boomslang trend area where several other prospects have been identified. The Company will continue to evaluate the commercial feasibility of the Boomslang prospect using this new 3-D data. In addition, the Company drilled and tested the E-BB2 gas well in the center of the Bredasdorp Basin. Results of this well and other wells drilled in this trend are being assessed as part of a larger gas development project that is currently being evaluated. The Company also acquired a 3-D seismic survey in the Port Elizabeth Trough Area of Block 14 during 2001. During 2002, the seismic data acquired in 2001 will be analyzed and the results from the aforementioned exploration activities will continue to be evaluated. The Company currently plans to drill two exploration wells during 2002.
During 2002, the Company plans to complete its Sable development project in South Africa with production anticipated to begin in early 2003. Development drilling is underway, floating production facility upgrades are in progress and subsea trees are being manufactured. Production for the first year is expected to average approximately 11,600 Bbls of oil per day net to the Company's 40 percent working interest.
Gabon. In Gabon, the Company spent $11.4 million of drilling and seismic capital to drill and test the initial exploratory well on its Bigorneau South prospect, located offshore in the Southern Gabon Basin on its Olowi permit. Pioneer is the operator of the permit with a 100 percent working interest. The Company has entered its application to enter the Second Exploration Period on the Olowi Permit, which requires two additional exploratory wells to be drilled over a two-year period. Seismic evaluations continue on this discovery and the Company plans to drill two exploration wells and one appraisal well during 2002.
Tunisia. Plans for Tunisia in 2002 include a 3-D seismic survey to be shot over the three operated permits as well as a seismic survey in the Anadarko-operated Anaguid permit. Based on the results and interpretation of such seismic surveys, the Company expects to drill two to three wells in Tunisia during 2002.
Selected Oil and Gas Information
The following tables set forth selected oil and gas information for the Company as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999. Because of normal production declines, increased or decreased drilling activities and the effects of past and future acquisitions or divestitures, the historical information presented below should not be interpreted as indicative of future results.
Production, price and cost data. The following table sets forth production, price and cost data with respect to the Company's properties for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999.
PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA (a)
Productive wells. The following table sets forth the number of productive oil and gas wells attributable to the Company's properties as of December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999.
PRODUCTIVE WELLS (a)
Leasehold acreage. The following table sets forth information about the Company's developed, undeveloped and royalty leasehold acreage as of December 31, 2001.
LEASEHOLD ACREAGE
Drilling activities. The following table sets forth the number of gross and net productive and dry wells in which the Company had an interest that were drilled during the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999. This information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and the oil and gas reserves generated thereby or the costs to the Company of productive wells compared to the costs of dry wells.
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
The following table sets forth information about the Company's wells that were in progress at December 31, 2001.
ITEM 3.