Item 2. “Properties.”
The Company estimates that its capital expenditures for 2001 will be approximately $4.3 million, which includes improvements at two of its plants. The Company is also considering the expansion of certain of its facilities and production capacities, which would increase the 2001 estimated capital expenditures. The Company believes that its available funds, cash generated by operating activities and funds available under its bank credit facilities will be sufficient to fund these capital expenditures and its working capital needs. However, the Company may expand its operations through future acquisitions and may require additional equity or debt financing.
Accounting Pronouncements
In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, which establishes revised accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments and for hedging activities. It requires that an entity measure all derivative instruments at fair value and recognize such instruments as either assets or liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial condition. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument will depend on the intended use of the derivative as either a fair value hedge, a cash flow hedge or a foreign currency hedge. The effect of the changes in fair value of the derivatives and, in certain cases, the hedged items are to be reflected in either the consolidated statements of income or as a component of other comprehensive income, based upon the resulting designation.
As issued, SFAS No. 133 was effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999. In June 1999, the FASB issued SFAS No. 137, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities - Deferral of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 133. SFAS No. 137 defers the effective date of SFAS No. 133 for one year to fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of this Statement will have a significant effect on its results of operations or financial position.
Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition
The Company’s future operating results and financial condition are dependent on a number of factors that the Company must successfully manage in order to achieve favorable future operating results and financial condition. The following potential risks and uncertainties, together with those mentioned elsewhere herein, including in Item 5. “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters,” could affect the Company’s future operating results, financial condition, and the market price of its Common Stock.
Substantial Leverage and Ability to Service Debt
With the Company’s 10 1/2% Senior Notes, existing line of credit facility and other positionings, the Company is highly leveraged with substantial debt service in addition to operating expenses and planned capital expenditures. The Company’s 10 1/2% Senior Notes permit the Company to incur additional indebtedness, subject to certain limitations, including additional secured indebtedness under existing credit facilities. The Company’s level of indebtedness will have several important effects on its future operations, including, without limitation, (i) a substantial portion of the Company’s cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on its indebtedness, reducing the funds available for operations and for capital expenditures, including acquisitions, (ii) covenants contained in the Senior Notes or the credit facility or other credit facilities will require the Company to meet certain financial tests, and other restrictions will limit its ability to borrow additional funds or to dispose of assets, and may affect the Company’s flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in its business, including possible acquisition activities, (iii) the Company’s leveraged position will substantially increase its vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, (iv) the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes may be limited and (v) the Company’s leveraged position and the various covenants contained in the Senior Notes and the credit facility may place the Company at a relative competitive disadvantage as compared to certain of its competitors. The Company’s ability to meet its debt service obligations and to reduce its total indebtedness will be dependent upon the Company’s future performance, which will be subject to general economic, industry and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors affecting the operations of the Company, many of which are beyond its control. There can be no assurance that the Company’s business will continue to generate cash flow at or above current levels. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service its debt, it may be required, among other things, to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets, to refinance or restructure all or a portion of its indebtedness, including the Senior Notes, to sell selected assets, or to reduce or delay planned capital expenditures and growth or business strategies. There can be no assurance that any such measures would be sufficient to enable the Company to service its debt, or that any of these measures could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all.
Dependence on Construction Industry
The Company earns virtually all of its revenues in the building construction industry, which is subject to local, regional and national economic cycles. The Company’s revenues and cash flows depend to a significant degree on major construction projects in various industries, including the hotel and casino, retail shopping, health care, mining, computer chip manufacturing, public works and other industries, each of which industries may be adversely affected by general or specific economic conditions. If construction activity declines significantly in the Company’s principal markets, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.
Fluctuating Quarterly Results of Operations
The Company has experienced, and in the future is expected to continue to experience, substantial variations in its results of operations from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside the Company’s control. In particular, the Company’s operating results may vary because of downturns in one or more segments of the building construction industry, changes in economic conditions, the Company’s failure to obtain, or delays in awards of, major projects, the cancellation of major projects, or the Company’s failure to timely replace projects that have been completed or are nearing completion. In addition, from time to time the Company has disputes with its customers concerning change orders to its contracts. To the extent such disputes are not resolved on a timely basis, the Company’s results of operations may be affected. Any of the foregoing factors could result in the periodic inefficient or underutilization of the Company’s resources and could cause the Company’s operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period, including on a quarterly basis.
Revenue Recognition Estimates
The Company recognizes revenues using the percentage of completion accounting method. Under this method, revenues are recognized based on the ratio that costs incurred to date bear to the total estimated costs to complete the project. Estimated losses on contracts are recognized in full when the Company determines that a loss will be incurred. The Company frequently reviews and revises revenues and total cost estimates as work progresses on a contract and as contracts are modified. Accordingly, revenue adjustments based upon the revised completion percentage are reflected in the period that estimates are revised. Although revenue estimates are based upon management assumptions supported by historical experience, these estimates could vary materially from actual results. To the extent percentage of completion adjustments reduce previously reported revenues, the Company would recognize a charge against operating results, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations for the applicable period.
Variations in Backlog; Dependence on Large Contracts
The Company’s backlog can be significantly affected by the receipt, or loss, of individual contracts. For example, approximately $27.5 million, representing 21.1% of the Company’s backlog at December 31, 2000, was attributable to two contracts. In the event one or more large contracts were terminated or their scope reduced, the Company’s backlog could decrease substantially. The Company’s future business and results of operations may be adversely affected if it is unable to replace significant contracts when lost or completed, or if it otherwise fails to maintain a sufficient level of backlog. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business - Backlog.”
Fixed Price Contracts
Of the Company’s $130.5 million backlog at December 31, 2000, most consisted of projects being performed on a fixed price basis. In bidding on projects, the Company estimates its costs, including projected increases in costs of labor, material and services. Despite these estimates, costs and gross profit realized on a fixed price contract may vary from estimated amounts because of unforeseen conditions or changes in job conditions, variations in labor and equipment productivity over the terms of contracts, higher than expected increases in labor or material costs and other factors. These variations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations for any period.
Geographic Concentration
The Company’s fabrication and erection operations currently are conducted primarily in Arizona, Nevada, Florida, Georgia, California and Texas, states in which the construction industry has experienced substantial growth during recent years. Because of this concentration, future construction activity and the Company’s business may be adversely affected in the event of a downturn in economic conditions existing in these states and in the southwestern and southeastern United States generally. Factors that may affect economic conditions include increases in interest rates or limitations in the availability of financing for
construction projects, decreases in the amount of funds budgeted for governmental projects, decreases in capital expenditures devoted to the construction of plants, distribution centers, retail shopping centers, industrial facilities, hotels and casinos, convention centers and other facilities, the prevailing market prices of copper, gold and other metals that impact related mining activity, and downturns in occupancy rates, office space demand, tourism and convention related activity and population growth.
Competition
Many small and various large companies offer fabrication, erection and related services that compete with those provided by the Company. Local and regional companies offer competition in one or more of the Company’s geographic markets or product segments. Out of state or international companies may provide competition in any market. The Company competes for every project it obtains. Although the Company believes customers consider, among other things, the availability and technical capabilities of equipment and personnel, efficiency, safety record and reputation, price competition usually is the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a contract. Competition has resulted in pressure on pricing and operating margins, and the effects of competitive pressure in the industry may continue. Some of the Company’s competitors have greater capital and other resources than the Company and are well established in their respective markets. There can be no assurance that the Company’s competitors will not substantially increase their commitment of resources devoted to competing aggressively with the Company or that the Company will be able to compete profitably with its competitors.
Substantial Liquidity Requirements
The Company’s operations require significant amounts of working capital to procure materials for contracts to be performed over relatively long periods, and for purchases and modifications of heavy-duty and specialized fabrication equipment. In addition, the Company’s contract arrangements with customers sometimes require the Company to provide payment and performance bonds and, in selected cases, letters of credit, to partially secure the Company’s obligations under its contracts, which may require the Company to incur significant expenditures prior to receipt of payments. Furthermore, the Company’s customers often will retain a portion of amounts otherwise payable to the Company during the course of a project as a guarantee of completion of that project. To the extent the Company is unable to receive project payments in the early stages of a project, the Company’s cash flow would be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
Capacity Constraints; Dependence on Subcontractors
The Company routinely relies on subcontractors to perform a significant portion of its fabrication, erection and project detailing to fulfill projects that the Company cannot fulfill in-house due to capacity constraints or that are in markets in which the Company has not established a strong local presence. With respect to these projects, the Company’s success depends on its ability to retain and successfully manage these subcontractors. Any difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified subcontractors on terms and conditions favorable to the Company could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to complete these projects in a timely and cost effective manner.
Dependence Upon Key Personnel
The Company’s success depends on the continued services of the Company’s senior management and key employees as well as the Company’s ability to attract additional members to its management team with experience in the steel fabrication and erection industry. The unexpected loss of the services of any of the Company’s management or other key personnel, or its inability to attract new management when necessary, could have a material adverse effect upon the Company.
Union Contracts
The Company currently is a party to a number of collective bargaining agreements with various unions representing some of the Company’s fabrication and erection employees. These contracts expire or are subject to expiration at various times in the future. The inability of the Company to renew such contracts could result in work stoppages and other labor disturbances, which could disrupt the Company’s business and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations.
No Assurance of Successful Acquisitions
In addition to the acquisitions of Addison, Quincy, Six and Bannister, the Company intends to consider acquisitions of and alliances with other companies in its industry that could complement the Company’s business, including the acquisition of entities in diverse geographic regions and entities offering greater access to industries and markets not currently served by the Company. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisition or alliance candidates can be identified or, if identified, that the Company will be able to consummate such transactions. Further, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to integrate successfully any acquired companies into its existing operations, which could increase the Company’s operating expenses. Moreover, any acquisition by the Company may result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, incurrence of additional debt and amortization of expenses related to goodwill and intangible assets, all of which could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, such as diverting attention of the Company’s management from other business concerns, the entrance of the Company into markets in which it has had no or only limited experience and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
The acquisitions of Addison, Quincy, Six, and Bannister have consumed and will continue to consume substantial management attention and resources of the Company and will require substantial efforts and entail certain risks in the integration of their operations. There can be no assurance that anticipated cost savings or synergies will be achieved. The Company will be dependent on the retention and future performance of key officers and employees of Addison, Quincy, Six, and Bannister for day-to-day management and future operating results.
Operating Risks; Litigation
Construction and heavy steel plate weldments involve a high degree of operational risk. Natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, design, fabrication and erection errors and work environment accidents can cause death or personal injury, property damage and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any of these events could result in loss of revenues, increased costs, and liability to third parties. The Company is subject to litigation claims in the ordinary course of business, including lawsuits asserting substantial claims. Currently, the Company does not maintain any reserves for its ongoing litigation. The Company periodically reviews the need to maintain a litigation reserve. The Company maintains risk management, insurance, and safety programs intended to prevent or mitigate losses. There can be no assurance that any of these programs will be adequate or that the Company will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates that it considers reasonable.
Potential Environmental Liability
The Company’s operations and properties are affected by numerous federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations, such as those governing discharges to air and water and the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. Compliance with these laws and regulations has become increasingly stringent, complex and costly. There can be no assurance that such laws and regulations or their interpretation will not change in a manner that could materially and adversely affect the Company. Certain environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) and its state law counterparts, provide for strict and joint and several liability for investigation and remediation of spills and other releases of toxic and hazardous substances. These laws may apply to conditions at properties
currently or formerly owned or operated by an entity or its predecessors, as well as to conditions at properties at which wastes or other contamination attributable to an entity or its predecessors come to be located. Although the Company has not incurred any material environmental related liability in the past and believes that it is in material compliance with environmental laws, there can be no assurance that the Company, or entities for which it may be responsible, will not incur such liability in connection with the investigation and remediation of facilities it currently operates (or formerly owned or operated) or other locations in a manner that could materially and adversely affect the Company.
Governmental Regulation
Many aspects of the Company’s operations are subject to governmental regulations in the United States and in other countries in which the Company operates, including regulations relating to occupational health and workplace safety, principally the Occupational Safety and Health Act and regulations thereunder. In addition, the Company is subject to licensure and holds or has applied for licenses in each of the states in the United States in which it operates and in certain local jurisdictions within such states. Although the Company believes that it is in material compliance with applicable laws and permitting requirements, there can be no assurance that it will be able to maintain this status. Further, the Company cannot determine to what extent future operations and earnings of the Company may be affected by new legislation, new regulations or changes in or new interpretations of existing regulations.
Risks of International Operations
The Company currently operates in selected international markets and is seeking to further expand its presence in these markets. Less than 1% of the Company’s revenues in 2000, however, were related to projects outside the United States. The Company’s international operations are subject to certain political, economic and other uncertainties, including risks of war, nationalization of assets, renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts, changing political conditions, changing laws and policies affecting trade and investment, and overlap of different tax structures. Although the Company currently attempts to limit its exposure to currency fluctuations by dealing solely in United States dollars, there can be no assurance that the Company’s international operations will escape the risks of fluctuating currency values, hard currency shortages, or controls on currency exchange.
Write-off of Impaired Asset
In December 1999, the Company temporarily suspended its efforts to install new financial accounting software. Included in Other Assets on the Company’s Balance Sheet at December 31, 1999 were $2.2 million of cumulative related costs. Capitalized software costs are evaluated for impairment in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 121, Accounting for Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of. Impairment is recognized when there are indicators of impairment and it is determined there is little or no remaining utility to the software or that it is no longer probable that the computer software being developed will be completed or placed in service. During the year ended December 31, 2000, management wrote off the remaining $1.8 million of accumulated costs. The costs are included in general and administrative expenses on the consolidated income statement for the year ended December 31, 2000.
Forward Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Item 1. “Business,” Item 3.