ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The information included in this Report about the Company's oil, NGL and gas reserves as of December 31, 2002 was based on reserve reports audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. for the Company's major properties in Canada, South Africa and the United States, reserve reports audited by Gaffney, Cline & Associates, Inc. for the Company's properties located in the Neuquen Basin in Argentina, and reserve reports prepared by the Company's engineers for all other properties. The reserve audits conducted by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. and Gaffney, Cline & Associates, Inc., in aggregate, represented 71 percent of the Company's estimated proved quantities of reserves as of December 31, 2002. The information in this Report about the Company's oil, NGL and gas reserves as of December 31, 2001 and 2000 was based on proved reserves as determined by the Company's engineers.
Numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond the Company's control. This Report contains estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves and the related future net revenues, which are based on various assumptions, including those prescribed by the SEC. Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses, geologic success and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates and could materially affect the estimated quantities and related Standardized Measure of proved reserves set forth in this Report. In addition, the Company's reserves may be subject to downward or upward revisions based on production performance, purchases or sales of properties, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors. Therefore, estimates of the Standardized Measure of proved reserves should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the Company's proved reserves.
Standardized Measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. It requires the use of oil and gas spot prices prevailing as of the date of computation. Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions. Standardized Measures as of any
date are not necessarily indicative of future results of operations. Accordingly, estimates included herein of future net revenues may be materially different from the net revenues that are ultimately received.
The Company did not provide estimates of total proved oil and gas reserves during 2002, 2001 or 2000 to any federal authority or agency, other than the SEC.
Proved Reserves
The Company's proved reserves totaled 736.7 million BOE at December 31, 2002, 671.4 million BOE at December 31, 2001 and 628.2 million BOE at December 31, 2000, representing $4.1 billion, $2.5 billion and $5.6 billion, respectively, of Standardized Measure or $5.1 billion, $2.5 billion and $7.0 billion, respectively, on a pre-tax basis. The ten percent increase in reserve volumes and 65 percent increase in Standardized Measure during 2002 were attributable to an increase in commodity prices, the purchase of incremental interests in two core assets and the Company's successful capital investments. The seven percent increase in proved reserve volumes during 2001 was primarily attributable to the Company's successful capital investments, while the 56 percent decrease in Standardized Measure during 2001 was primarily due to decreases in commodity prices.
On a BOE basis, 67 percent of the Company's total proved reserves at December 31, 2002 were proved developed reserves. Based on reserve information as of December 31, 2002, and using the Company's production information for 2002, the reserve-to-production ratio associated with the Company's proved reserves was 18 years on a BOE basis. The following table provides information regarding the Company's proved reserves and average daily production by geographic area as of and for the year ended December 31, 2002:
PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES AND AVERAGE DAILY PRODUCTION
Finding Cost and Reserve Replacement
The Company's acquisition and finding costs per BOE for 2002, 2001 and 2000 were $6.30, $7.49 and $4.66 per BOE, respectively. The average acquisition and finding cost for the three-year period from 2000 to 2002 was $6.24 per BOE, representing a 32 percent increase over the 2001 three-year average rate of $4.74 per BOE. This increase was largely attributable to the $221.6 million of development capital that the Company spent during 2002 to develop its Canyon Express, Falcon and Devils Tower development projects in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and its Sable development project offshore South Africa.
During 2002, the Company replaced 258 percent of its annual production on a BOE basis (384 percent for oil and NGLs and 144 percent for gas). During 2001, the Company replaced 208 percent of its annual production on a BOE basis (169 percent for oil and NGLs and 245 percent for gas). During 2000, the Company replaced 167 percent of its annual production on a BOE basis (196 percent for oil and NGLs and 140 percent for gas). The Company's 2002 reserve replacement percentage was the result of revisions of previous estimates and revisions related to changes in commodity prices, asset purchases and new discoveries and field extensions. The Company's 2001 reserve replacement percentage was
primarily impacted by asset purchases and new discoveries and field extensions while the 2000 reserve replacement percentage was primarily impacted by revisions related to changes in commodity prices.
Description of Properties
As of December 31, 2002, the Company has production and/or development and exploration operations in the United States, Argentina, Canada, South Africa and Tunisia, and exploration opportunities in Gabon.
Domestic. The Company's domestic operations are located in the Permian Basin, Mid Continent, Gulf of Mexico and onshore Gulf Coast areas of the United States. The Company also has unproved properties in Alaska. Approximately 82 percent of the Company's domestic proved reserves are located in the Spraberry, Hugoton and West Panhandle fields. The mature Spraberry, Hugoton and West Panhandle fields generate substantial operating cash flow and have a portfolio of low risk infill drilling opportunities. The cash flows generated from these fields provide funding for the Company's other development and exploration activities both domestically and internationally. During 2002, the Company expended $533.6 million in domestic acquisition, exploration and development drilling activities. The Company has budgeted approximately $300 million for domestic acquisition, exploration and development drilling expenditures for 2003.
Spraberry field. The Spraberry field was discovered in 1949 and encompasses eight counties in West Texas. The field is approximately 150 miles long and 75 miles wide at its widest point. The oil produced is West Texas Intermediate Sweet, and the gas produced is casinghead gas with an average energy content of 1,400 Btu per Mcf. The oil and gas are produced from three formations, the upper and lower Spraberry and the Dean, at depths ranging from 6,700 feet to 9,200 feet. The center of the Spraberry field was unitized in the late 1950's and early 1960's by the major oil companies; however, until the late 1980's there was very limited development activity in the field. Since 1989, the Company has focused its development drilling activities in the unitized portion of the Spraberry field due to the dormant condition of the properties. The Company believes the area offers excellent opportunities to enhance oil and gas reserves because of the hundreds of undeveloped infill drilling locations, many of which are reflected in the Company's proved undeveloped reserves, and the ability to reduce operating expenses through economies of scale.
During 2002, the Company placed 89 Spraberry wells on production, drilled one developmental dry hole and, at December 31, 2002, had two wells in progress. The Company plans to drill approximately 150 development wells in the Spraberry field during 2003.
Hugoton field. The Hugoton field in southwest Kansas is one of the largest producing gas fields in the continental United States. The gas is produced from the Chase and Council Grove formations at depths ranging from 2,700 feet to 3,000 feet. The Company's Hugoton properties represent approximately 13 percent of the proved reserves in the field and are located on approximately 257,000 gross acres (237,000 net acres), covering approximately 400 square miles. The Company has working interests in approximately 1,200 wells in the Hugoton field, about 1,000 of which it operates, and partial royalty interests in approximately 500 wells. The Company owns substantially all of the gathering and processing facilities, primarily the Satanta plant, that service its production from the Hugoton field. Such ownership allows the Company to control the production, gathering, processing and sale of its gas and associated NGLs.
The Company's Hugoton operated wells are capable of producing approximately 97 MMcf of wet gas per day (i.e., gas production at the wellhead before processing and before reduction for royalties), although actual production in the Hugoton field is limited by allowables set by state regulators. The Company estimates that it and other major producers in the Hugoton field produced at or near capacity in 2002. During 2002, the Company completed four development wells in the Hugoton field and plans for 2003 include approximately 30 wells to be drilled.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the feasibility of infill drilling into the Council Grove Formation and may submit an application to the Kansas Corporation Commission to allow infill drilling. Such infill drilling may increase production from the Company's Hugoton properties. However, until an application has been approved, the Company will not reflect any of the infill drilling locations as proved undeveloped reserves. There can be no assurance that the application will be filed or approved, or as to the timing of such approval if granted.
West Panhandle field. The West Panhandle properties are located in the panhandle region of Texas where initial production commenced in 1918. These stable, long-lived reserves are attributable to the Red Cave, Brown Dolomite,
Granite Wash and fractured Granite formations at depths no greater than 3,500 feet. The Company's gas in the West Panhandle field has an average energy content of 1,300 Btu per Mcf and is produced from approximately 600 wells on more than 241,000 acres covering over 375 square miles. The Company's wellhead gas produced from the West Panhandle field contains a high quantity of NGLs, yielding relatively greater NGL volumes than realized from the Company's 1,025 Btu per Mcf content wellhead gas in its Hugoton field. In 2002, the Company purchased the remaining rights it did not already own in the field as well as the gathering system. The Company now controls the wells, production equipment, gathering system and gas processing plant for the field.
During 2002, the Company placed 40 new wells on production, drilled three developmental dry holes and had four wells in progress at December 31, 2002. The Company plans to drill approximately 100 wells in the West Panhandle field during 2003.
Gulf of Mexico area. In the Gulf of Mexico, the Company is focused on reserve and production growth through a portfolio of shelf and deepwater development projects, high-impact, higher-risk deepwater exploration drilling, shelf exploration drilling and exploitation opportunities inherent in the properties the Company currently has producing on the shelf. To accomplish this, the Company has devoted most of its domestic exploration efforts to these two areas, as well as its investment in and utilization of 3-D seismic technology. During 2002, the Company successfully drilled six development and four exploratory wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and one successful exploratory well and one successful development well on the shelf. The Company also drilled two exploratory dry holes in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and one exploratory dry hole on the shelf during 2002.
In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Company has sanctioned three major development projects, one of which is now on production and two that were in progress at December 31, 2002:
o Canyon Express - The TotalFinaElf-operated Aconcagua and the Marathon-operated Camden Hills discoveries in Mississippi Canyon were jointly developed as part of the Canyon Express gas project. Production start-up occurred in late September; however, several operational and mechanical difficulties were encountered which has resulted in the Company not reaching its estimated net production level of 110 to 120 MMcf of gas per day until late January 2003.
o Devils Tower - At the Dominion-operated Devils Tower development project in Mississippi Canyon, the Company successfully drilled two wells to explore for new reserves in previously undrilled reservoirs and to further extend the previously tested zones and three development wells. During 2001, the project was sanctioned as a spar development project with the owners leasing a spar from a third party for the life of the field. Construction of the spar is in progress, the eight producing wells on Devils Tower have been drilled and are awaiting completion and production is anticipated to begin during the first quarter of 2004. The wells will be brought on sequentially with peak production expected to reach 12,000 to 15,000 BOEs per day net to the Company's 25 percent working interest.
o Falcon - The Company-operated Falcon project is on pace to be on production in April 2003. Two development wells were drilled and completed during 2002 and the final stages of the facilities fabrication and installation are currently underway. Peak production from Falcon is anticipated at rates of approximately 130 MMcf of gas per day net to the Company's 75 percent working interest.
During 2002, the Company also participated in two appraisal sidetrack wells on the Marathon-operated deepwater Gulf of Mexico Ozona Deep prospect, of which one was a discovery. The 2002 discovery sidetrack appraisal well further extended the 2001 Ozona Deep discovery that originally encountered approximately 345 feet of net oil pay in two intervals. The Company is currently evaluating possible tie-back opportunities to existing facilities in the area, the economics of which will determine future activities. The Company also successfully drilled its Dominion-operated Triton prospect near Devils Tower. Proved reserves were recorded for this prospect and it will be completed as a subsea tieback to Devils Tower. Exploration drilling near the Falcon discovery began in December 2002 with the Lightning prospect and in January 2003 on the H2.5 and Harrier prospects. The Lightning and H2.5 exploratory wells were unsuccessful; however, the Harrier prospect was announced as a discovery in late January 2003. It is anticipated that the Harrier well will be completed with a subsea tieback to Falcon within nine to 15 months. During 2003, the Company also plans to drill its Buff prospect, which is also near the Falcon discovery.
During January 2003, the Company announced a joint exploration agreement with Woodside Energy (USA) Inc. ("Woodside"), a subsidiary of Woodside Energy Ltd. of Australia, for a two-year drilling program over the shallow- water Texas shelf region of the Gulf of Mexico. Under the agreement, Woodside has taken a 50 percent working interest in 47 offshore exploration blocks operated by the Company. The agreement covers eight prospects and 19 leads and includes five exploratory wells to be drilled in 2003 and three in 2004. Most of the wells to be drilled under the agreement will target gas plays below 15,000 feet. The eight wells to be drilled by the parties in 2003 and 2004 are on prospects generated and leased by the Company since 1997. Additionally, the Company and Woodside will evaluate for potential inclusion in the drilling program shallower gas prospects on the Gulf of Mexico shelf on other blocks covered by the leases.
Onshore Gulf Coast area. The Company has focused its drilling efforts in this area on the Pawnee field in the Edwards Reef trend in South Texas. The Company drilled six development wells at Pawnee during 2002, had one well in progress at year end and plans to drill seven wells in 2003.
Alaska area. During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company signed an agreement with Armstrong Resources LLC under which the Company was assigned a 70 percent working interest and operatorship in ten state leases on Alaska's North Slope. The leases cover approximately 14,000 undeveloped acres between the Kuparuk River unit and Thetis Island. The Company plans to drill up to three exploratory wells during the first quarter of 2003. The wells will test an area that the Company believes is prospective for oil in the same sands as the offsetting Kuparuk River unit eight to ten miles to the southeast. The Kuparuk River unit was discovered in 1969 and is estimated to hold 2.5 billion barrels of recoverable oil. No wells have been drilled on the acreage covered by the Company's leases to date, but wells drilled just outside the perimeter of the acreage have encountered the primary target Kuparuk "C" sands and were oil-bearing. The acreage is offshore in approximately five to ten feet of water. Drilling plans call for grounded sea ice pad locations that will be accessed via ice roads from Oliktok Point dock. All sea ice operations are expected to be completed by the end of March 2003.
International. The Company's international operations are located in the Neuquen and Austral Basins areas of Argentina and the Chinchaga, Martin Creek and Lookout Butte areas of Canada. Additionally, the Company's other significant development projects, the Sable oil field located in shallow water offshore South Africa and the Adam discovery in southern Tunisia, are scheduled for first production in mid-2003. The Company has also entered into agreements to explore for oil and gas reserves in South Africa, Gabon and Tunisia. As of December 31, 2002, approximately 16 percent, three percent, one percent and one tenth of one percent of the Company's proved reserves are located in Argentina, Canada, South Africa and Tunisia, respectively.
Argentina. The Company's share of Argentine production during 2002 averaged 21.7 MBOE per day, or approximately 19 percent of the Company's equivalent production. The Company's operated production in Argentina is concentrated in the Neuquen Basin which is located about 925 miles southwest of Buenos Aires and to the east of the Andes Mountains. Oil and gas are produced primarily from the Al Norte de la Dorsal, the Al Sur de la Dorsal, the Dadin, the Loma Negra, the Anticlinal Campamento and the Estacion Fernandez Oro blocks, in each of which the Company has a 100 percent working interest. Most of the gas produced from these blocks is processed in the Company's recently completed Loma Negra gas processing plant. The Company also operates and has a 50 percent working interest in the Lago Fuego field which is located in Tierra del Fuego, an island in the extreme southern portion of Argentina, approximately 1,500 miles south of Buenos Aires.
Most of the Company's non-operated production in Argentina is located in Tierra del Fuego where oil, gas and NGLs are produced from six separate fields in which the Company has a 35 percent working interest. The Company also has a 14.4 percent working interest in the Confluencia field which is located in the Neuquen Basin.
During 2002, the Company expended $35.1 million on Argentine development and exploration activities. The Company drilled 14 development wells and 17 extension/exploratory wells, of which 13 development wells and nine extension/exploratory wells were successful. Also during 2002, the Company completed its gas processing plant at Loma Negra and completed a 35 mile gas pipeline that connects the Loma Negra plant to a main gas transmission line that accesses the Buenos Aires gas market. The Company plans to spend approximately $45 million on oil and gas development and exploration opportunities in Argentina during 2003.
Canada. The Company's Canadian producing properties are located primarily in Alberta and British Columbia, Canada. Production during 2002 averaged 9.1 MBOE per day, or approximately eight percent of the Company's equivalent production. The Company continues to focus its development, exploration and acquisition activities in the core areas of northeast British Columbia and southwest Alberta. The Canadian assets are geographically concentrated, predominantly shallow gas and more than 95 percent operated by the Company in the following areas: Chinchaga, Martin Creek and Lookout Butte.
Production from the Chinchaga area in northeast British Columbia is relatively dry gas from formation depths averaging 3,400 feet. In the Martin Creek area of British Columbia, production is relatively dry gas from various reservoirs ranging from 3,700 feet to 4,300 feet. The Lookout Butte area in southwest Alberta produces gas and condensate from the Mississippian Turner Valley formation at approximately 12,000 feet.
During 2002, the Company expended $33.5 million on Canadian development, exploration and acquisition activities. The Company drilled 17 development wells and 12 exploratory wells, primarily in the Chinchaga and Martin Creek areas, of which 13 development wells and 9 exploratory wells were successful. Most of these wells were drilled during the first quarter as these areas are only accessible for drilling during the winter months. The Company plans to spend approximately $45 million on oil and gas development and exploration opportunities in Canada during 2003.
Africa. In Africa, the Company has entered into agreements to explore for oil and gas in South Africa, Gabon and Tunisia. The amended South African agreements cover over five million acres along the southern coast of South Africa, generally in water depths less than 650 feet. The Gabon agreement covers 313,937 acres off the coast of Gabon, generally in water depths less than 100 feet. The Tunisian agreements can be separated into two categories: the first includes three permits covering 2.9 million acres onshore southern Tunisia which the Company operates with a 50 percent working interest and the second includes the Anadarko-operated Anaguid permit covering 1.2 million acres onshore southern Tunisia in which the Company has a 38.7 percent working interest and the AGIP-operated Borj El Khadra permit covering 1.2 million acres onshore southern Tunisia in which the Company has a 40 percent working interest. During 2002, the Company expended $70.3 million of acquisition, development and exploration drilling and seismic capital in South Africa, Gabon and Tunisia.
South Africa. In South Africa, the Company spent $37.1 million of drilling and seismic capital to drill four successful development wells on its Petro SA-operated Sable development project. During 2003, the Company plans to complete its Sable development project with production anticipated to begin during the second quarter of 2003. Production for the first year is expected to average approximately 12,100 Bbls of oil per day net to the Company's 40 percent working interest. In addition, the Company currently plans to drill three exploration wells in South Africa during 2003.
Gabon. In Gabon, the Company spent $23.6 million of drilling and seismic capital to drill and test three additional exploratory wells on its Bigorneau South prospect, located offshore in the Southern Gabon Basin on its Olowi permit. Pioneer is the operator of the permit with a 100 percent working interest. To date, the Company has drilled and tested four successful offshore wells which have established significant oil in place. Full development of the field is expected to involve substantial capital investment underscoring the importance of confirming reservoir characteristics and productivity. Pioneer is currently seeking bids for the development of an early production system covering a limited field area which would allow the Company to gain additional information needed to design a full field development plan. The Company is also seeking improved fiscal terms from the government.
Tunisia. In Tunisia, the Company spent $8.2 million of acquisition, drilling and seismic capital primarily to acquire a 40 percent interest in and drill an exploration well on the AGIP-operated Borj El Khadra permit. This well encountered several oil and gas productive zones that tested up to 6,000 Bbls of oil per day. The Company plans to complete the construction of a 15 kilometer flowline from the discovery to an AGIP-operated facility during the third quarter of 2003, allowing production to begin from the initial well shortly thereafter. A development well is scheduled to be drilled in the fourth quarter of 2003. In addition to this development project, plans for Tunisia in 2003 include an exploration well to be drilled on the Company-operated Jorf permit, two exploration wells to be drilled on the Anadarko-operated Anaguid permit and an additional exploration well to be drilled on the AGIP-operated Borj El Khadra permit.
Selected Oil and Gas Information
The following tables set forth selected oil and gas information for the Company as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. Because of normal production declines, increased or decreased drilling activities and the effects of past and future acquisitions or divestitures, the historical information presented below should not be interpreted as being indicative of future results.
Production, price and cost data. The following table sets forth production, price and cost data with respect to the Company's properties for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000:
Productive wells. The following table sets forth the number of productive oil and gas wells attributable to the Company's properties as of December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000:
PRODUCTIVE WELLS (a)
Leasehold acreage. The following table sets forth information about the Company's developed, undeveloped and royalty leasehold acreage as of December 31, 2002:
LEASEHOLD ACREAGE
Drilling activities. The following table sets forth the number of gross and net productive and dry wells in which the Company had an interest that were drilled during the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. This information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there was any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and the oil and gas reserves generated thereby or the costs to the Company of productive wells compared to the costs of dry holes.
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
The following table sets forth information about the Company's wells upon which drilling was in progress on December 31, 2002:
ITEM 3.