Item 2. “Properties.”
Line of Credit
On August 13, 2003, we signed a new $15.0 million credit facility agreement with Wells Fargo Credit, Inc. (the “Bank”). The credit facility is primarily maintained to enable us to issue letters of credit to our performance bond surety and workers’ compensation insurance carrier. At December 31, 2003, we had no outstanding borrowings under our credit facility.
The new credit facility is secured by a first priority, perfected security interest in all of our assets and our present and future subsidiaries. The interest rate is prime plus 1.50%. The credit facility contains covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions, repurchase our
Senior Notes, incur additional indebtedness, change our business, and merge, consolidate or dispose of material portions of our assets. The security agreements pursuant to which our assets are pledged prohibit any further pledge of such assets without the written consent of the bank.
The new credit facility requires that we maintain a specified Debt Service Coverage Ratio (defined as the sum of net income, depreciation and amortization, interest expense and unfinanced capital expenditures divided by the sum of current maturities of long-term debt and interest expense), a minimum book net worth, a minimum monthly stop loss (defined as a net loss not exceeding $500,000 in any one month and $1.0 million in any two consecutive months) and maximum capital expenditures. At December 31, 2003, we were not in compliance with some of these credit facility covenants due to our 2003 financial performance. We received a waiver of such noncompliance from the Bank dated March 19, 2004. We are currently in the process of negotiating the financial covenants for fiscal year 2004. We believe that the covenants for fiscal year 2004 will be similar to and no more restrictive than the covenants for fiscal year 2003.
Although the Bank has waived noncompliance with the credit facility covenants, there is no guarantee that events of noncompliance, if any, will be waived in the future. If we lose and are unable to replace our credit facility, our ability to issue letters of credit to our performance bond surety and workers’ compensation insurance carrier would be adversely affected, which is likely to have a material effect on our business.
At December 31, 2003, we had no outstanding borrowings under our line of credit, with approximately $5.1 million available for borrowings.
Standby Letters of Credit
We have $9.9 million of standby letters of credit issued under our $15.0 million credit facility, of which $6.0 million are for the benefit of our performance bond surety and $3.9 million are for the benefit of our workers’ compensation insurance carrier.
Our performance bond surety requires that standby letters of credit be issued because of our past financial performance and the surety industry as a whole. Since the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, the number of available reinsurance companies that the sureties assigned their bonding risk to has dramatically decreased. Therefore, our performance bond surety has now been forced to retain a major portion of their risk that was previously assigned to reinsurance companies. Their retention of this risk has caused the surety to require us to issue the standby letters of credit as collateral for our performance bonds. Our collateral requirement will be reviewed periodically and is based upon our overall financial performance. If our financial performance and liquidity improves in the future, our surety may reduce or eliminate the collateral requirements.
Our workers’ compensation insurance carrier requires standby letters of credit to be issued as collateral on all of our outstanding indemnity cases. The amount of collateral required is determined each year and is provided to the carrier for outstanding indemnity claims not greater than 54 months old. The prior years’ levels of required collateral can be adjusted each year based upon the costs incurred and settlements reached on the outstanding indemnity cases.
These letters of credit are secured by cash held in an investment account, which is classified as restricted funds on deposit on the December 31, 2003 balance sheet. The Bank has required us to deposit cash into an investment account to support the issuance of our standby letters of credit issued under our $15.0 million credit facility. Under the credit facility agreement, the first $5.0 million of standby letters of credit issued require us to deposit cash totaling 100% of the value of those standby letters of credit. When the amount of standby letters of credit issued exceeds $5.0 million, we are required to deposit cash totaling 75% the total outstanding standby letters of credit.
On December 4, 2003, Moody’s Investor Service announced its decision to downgrade our ratings to Caa2 (poor standing and subject to very high risk, ranking in the middle of the range) from B3 (speculative and subject to high credit risk, ranking in the low end of the range) for our senior implied and Senior Notes rating and Caa3 (poor standing and subject to very high risk, ranking in the low end of the range) from Caa1 (poor standing and subject to very high risk, ranking in the high end of the range) for our issuer rating. The
downgrades were prompted by our sharply declining revenues, operating income and EBITDA, weakened debt protection measures, bank covenant violations and likely asset impairment values in the event of a distress situation. The downgrading of our credit ratings may result in higher borrowing costs on any future financings.
If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing. Our ability to make scheduled principal payments, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the construction industry and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control, including the severity and duration of the economic downturn.
Stock Repurchases
In 2001, our Board of Directors approved the repurchase of up to 300,000 shares under a share repurchase program (the “Share Repurchase Program”). On October 7, 2002, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 300,000 shares under the Share Repurchase Program. Pursuant to the Share Repurchase Program, we repurchased 435,800 shares in the open market for an aggregate cost of $656,000 in 2002. No shares were repurchased during 2003. We repurchased the following shares during 2002:
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
The nature of our off-balance sheet arrangements at December 31, 2003 includes letters of credit of $9.9 million and performance bonds of $8.4 million. These items are more fully discussed earlier in this section and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes and contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
We have adopted the following critical accounting policies used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.
Revenue Recognition
We perform our services primarily under fixed-price contracts and recognize revenues using the percentage of completion accounting method. Under this method, revenues are recognized based upon either the ratio of costs incurred to date to the estimated total cost to complete the project or the ratio of labor hours incurred to date to the total estimated labor hours. Revenue recognition generally begins when work has commenced. Revenues relating to changes in the scope of a contract are recognized when the work has commenced, we have made an estimate of the amount that will be paid for the change and there is a high degree of probability that the charges will be approved by the customer or general contractor. The cumulative impact of revisions in total cost estimates during the progress of work is reflected in the period in which revisions become known. Estimated losses on contracts are recognized in full when it is determined that a loss will be incurred on a contract.
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts receivable based on estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. In order to estimate the appropriate level of this allowance, we analyze historical payment patterns, aging of accounts receivable, actual write-off history, current economic trends and changes in our customer payment patterns. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market under the first-in, first-out method. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
Goodwill Impairment
We assess the impairment of goodwill on an annual basis as required by SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” When we determine that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable, we measure any impairment based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by our management to be commensurate with the risk inherent in our current business model. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, on January 1, 2002, we ceased to amortize goodwill. SFAS No. 142 requires an assessment of goodwill upon adoption and at least annually thereafter, using a two step methodology. Based upon the assessment at adoption, we recorded a transitional impairment loss of $29.6 million, or $4.11 per basic and diluted earnings per share, as a cumulative effect of an accounting change at the beginning of the first quarter of 2002. We completed our annual assessment of goodwill as of October 31, 2003. Our assessment determined that the fair value exceeded the carrying value of the assets.
Income Taxes
As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance sheet. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. We have provided for a valuation allowance of $286,000 because we feel that our state net operating loss carryforwards may not be recovered from future taxable income. At December 31, 2003, our net deferred tax asset was $967,000.
Legal Contingencies
We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings. We do not believe these proceedings will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Because of the uncertainties related to both the amount and range of loss on the remaining pending litigation, management is unable to make a reasonable estimate of the liability that could result from an unfavorable outcome. As additional information becomes available, we will assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and revise our estimates as necessary. Such revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our financial position or results of operations.
New Accounting Pronouncements
In December 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 132 (revised 2003), “Employers’ Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits”. The provisions of this revised statement retain the existing disclosure requirements of the original guidance in SFAS No. 132 and contain additional requirements for both annual and interim reporting. This revision also amends the disclosure requirements under APB Opinion No. 28, “Interim Financial Reporting”. The revised statement is effective for fiscal years ending and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2003. The adoption of this Statement had no impact on our financial position or results of operations.
In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150, “Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity.” This Statement requires, among other things, the classification of certain financial instruments, previously classified within the equity section of the balance sheet, to be included in liabilities. This Statement is effective for financial instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003 and June 15, 2003 for all other instruments. The adoption of this Statement had no impact on our financial position or results of operations.
In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 149, “Amendment of Statement No. 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” This Statement amended and refined certain characteristics of derivative instruments and hedges. The adoption of this Statement had no impact on our financial position or results of operations.
In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation (“FIN”) No. 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities - An Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin (“ARB”) No. 51.” This interpretation was subsequently revised by FIN 46 (Revised 2003) in December 2003. This revised interpretation states that consolidation of variable interest entities will be required by the primary beneficiary if the entities do not effectively disperse risks among the parties involved. The requirements are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2003 for special-purpose entities and for all other types of entities for periods ending after March 31, 2004. We have no variable interest entities and do not believe that FIN No. 46(R) will impact our future financial results.
Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition
Our future operating results and financial condition are dependent on a number of factors that we must successfully manage in order to achieve favorable future operating results and financial condition. The following potential risks and uncertainties, together with those mentioned elsewhere herein, including in Item 5. “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities,” could adversely affect our future operating results, financial condition, and the market price of our common stock.
Substantial Leverage and Ability to Service Debt
With our 10 1/2% Senior Notes and existing line of credit facility, we are highly leveraged with substantial debt service in addition to operating expenses and planned capital expenditures. Our 10 1/2% Senior Notes permit us to incur additional indebtedness, subject to certain limitations, including additional secured indebtedness under existing credit facilities. Our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on
our future operations, including, without limitation, (i) a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, reducing the funds available for operations and for capital expenditures, including acquisitions, (ii) covenants contained in the Senior Notes or the credit facility or other credit facilities will require us to meet certain financial tests, and other restrictions will limit our ability to borrow additional funds or to dispose of assets, and may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business, including possible acquisition activities, (iii) our leveraged position will substantially increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, (iv) our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes may be limited and (v) our leveraged position and the various covenants contained in the Senior Notes and the credit facility may place us at a relative competitive disadvantage as compared to certain of our competitors. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to reduce our total indebtedness will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic, industry and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our business will continue to generate cash flow at or above current levels. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required, among other things, to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets, to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes, to sell selected assets, or to reduce or delay planned capital expenditures and growth or business strategies. There can be no assurance that any such measures would be sufficient to enable us to service our debt, or that any of these measures could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all.
Dependence on Construction Industry
We earn virtually all of our revenues in the building construction industry, which is subject to local, regional and national economic cycles. Our revenues and cash flows depend to a significant degree on major construction projects in various industries, including the hotel and casino, retail shopping, health care, mining, computer chip manufacturing, public works and other industries, each of which industries may be adversely affected by general or specific economic conditions. If construction activity does not improve significantly in our principal markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations will continue to be adversely affected. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Recent Developments.”
Rising Steel Prices
Our gross profit can be significantly affected by the cost of steel shapes and plate. Steel scrap is the primary component utilized in the production of structural steel shapes in the United States and is an essential component in the production of steel plate. The price of steel scrap has increased dramatically over the last year and we expect it to continue to increase in the future. If steel prices continue to increase or increase more than we anticipate, our gross profit could be negatively impacted. Additionally, the increased cost of steel could cause owners and contractors of projects to seek out less-expensive alternatives to steel buildings, such as concrete. If the use of steel in the construction of buildings declines significantly, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of our operations for any period.
Fluctuating Quarterly Results of Operations
We have experienced, and in the future are expected to continue to experience, substantial variations in our results of operations from quarter to quarter as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In particular, our operating results may vary because of downturns in one or more segments of the building construction industry, changes in economic conditions, our failure to obtain, or delays in awards of, major projects, the cancellation of major projects, or our failure to timely replace projects that have been completed or are nearing completion. In addition, from time to time we have disputes with our customers concerning change orders to our contracts. To the extent such disputes are not resolved on a timely basis, our results of operations may be affected. Any of the foregoing factors could result in the periodic inefficient or
underutilization of our resources and could cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period, including on a quarterly basis.
Revenue Recognition Estimates
We recognize revenues using the percentage of completion accounting method. Under this method, revenues are recognized based on either the ratio that costs incurred to date bear to the total estimated costs to complete the project or the ratio of labor hours incurred to date to the total estimated labor hours. Estimated losses on contracts are recognized in full when we determine that a loss will be incurred. We frequently review and revise revenues and total cost estimates as work progresses on a contract and as contracts are modified. Accordingly, revenue adjustments based upon the revised completion percentage are reflected in the period that estimates are revised. Although revenue estimates are based upon management assumptions supported by historical experience, these estimates could vary materially from actual results. To the extent percentage of completion adjustments reduce previously reported revenues, we would recognize a charge against operating results, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the applicable period.
Variations in Backlog; Dependence on Large Contracts
Our backlog can be significantly affected by the receipt, or loss, of individual contracts. For example, approximately $59.4 million, representing 52.4% of our backlog at December 31, 2003, was attributable to five contracts, letters of intent, notices to proceed or purchase orders. If one or more large contracts are terminated or their scope reduced, our backlog could decrease substantially. Our future business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to replace significant contracts when lost or completed, or if we otherwise fail to maintain a sufficient level of backlog. In addition, if a project representing a significant portion of our backlog is delayed or otherwise postponed, our anticipated revenue from that project may not be realized until later than anticipated. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business - Backlog.”
Fixed Price Contracts
Most of our $113.3 million backlog at December 31, 2003 represented projects being performed on a fixed price basis. In bidding on projects, we estimate our costs, including projected increases in costs of labor, material and services. Despite these estimates, costs and gross profit realized on a fixed price contract may vary from estimated amounts because of unforeseen conditions or changes in job conditions, variations in labor and equipment productivity over the terms of contracts, higher than expected increases in labor or material costs and other factors. These variations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of our operations for any period.
Geographic Concentration
Our fabrication and erection operations currently are conducted primarily in Arizona, Nevada, Florida, Georgia, California and Texas. Because of this concentration, future construction activity and our business may be adversely affected in the event of a downturn in economic conditions existing in these states and in the southwestern and southeastern United States generally. Factors that may affect economic conditions include increases in interest rates or limitations in the availability of financing for construction projects, decreases in the amount of funds budgeted for governmental projects, decreases in capital expenditures devoted to the construction of plants, distribution centers, retail shopping centers, industrial facilities, hotels and casinos, convention centers and other facilities, the prevailing market prices of copper, gold and other metals that impact related mining activity, and downturns in occupancy rates, office space demand, tourism and convention related activity and population growth.
Competition
Many small and various large companies offer fabrication, erection and related services that compete with those we provide. Local and regional companies offer competition in one or more of our geographic markets or
product segments. Out of state or international companies may provide competition in any market. We compete for every project we obtain. Although we believe customers consider, among other things, the availability and technical capabilities of equipment and personnel, efficiency, safety record and reputation, price competition usually is the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a contract. Competition has resulted in pressure on pricing and operating margins, and the effects of competitive pressure in the industry may continue. In particular, we have encountered severe pricing pressure during the last 6 to 12 months, as smaller competitors have bid on projects at what appears to cost or below in order to remain in business. Some of our competitors have greater capital and other resources than ours and are more established in their respective markets. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not substantially increase their commitment of resources devoted to competing aggressively with us or that we will be able to compete profitably with our competitors.
Substantial Liquidity Requirements
Our operations require significant amounts of working capital to procure materials for contracts to be performed over relatively long periods, and for purchases and modifications of heavy-duty and specialized fabrication equipment. In addition, our contract arrangements with customers sometimes require us to provide payment and performance bonds and, in selected cases, letters of credit, to partially secure our obligations under our contracts, which may require us to incur significant expenditures prior to receipt of payments. Furthermore, our customers often will retain a portion of amounts otherwise payable to us during the course of a project as a guarantee of completion of that project. To the extent the we are unable to receive project payments in the early stages of a project, our cash flow would be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Capacity Constraints; Dependence on Subcontractors
We routinely rely on subcontractors to perform a significant portion of our fabrication, erection and project detailing to fulfill projects that we cannot fulfill in-house due to capacity constraints or that are in markets in which we have not established a strong local presence. With respect to these projects, our success depends on our ability to retain and successfully manage these subcontractors. Any difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified subcontractors on terms and conditions favorable to us could have an adverse effect on our ability to complete these projects in a timely and cost effective manner.
Dependence Upon Key Personnel
Our success depends on the continued services of our senior management and key employees as well as our ability to attract additional members to our management team with experience in the steel fabrication and erection industry. The unexpected loss of the services of any of our management or other key personnel, or our inability to attract new management when necessary, could have a material adverse effect upon our operations.
Union Contracts
We currently are a party to a number of collective bargaining agreements with various unions representing some of our fabrication and erection employees. These contracts expire or are subject to expiration at various times in the future. Our inability to renew such contracts could result in work stoppages and other labor disturbances, which could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations.
Operating Risks; Litigation
Construction and heavy steel plate weldments involve a high degree of operational risk. Natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, design, fabrication and erection errors and work environment accidents can cause death or personal injury, property damage and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any of these events could result in loss of revenues, increased costs, and liability to third parties. We are subject to litigation claims in the ordinary course of business, including lawsuits asserting substantial claims. Currently, we do not maintain any reserves for our ongoing litigation. We periodically review the need to maintain a litigation
reserve. We maintain risk management, insurance, and safety programs intended to prevent or mitigate losses. There can be no assurance that any of these programs will be adequate or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates that we consider reasonable.
Potential Environmental Liability
Our operations and properties are affected by numerous federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations, such as those governing discharges to air and water and the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. Compliance with these laws and regulations has become increasingly stringent, complex and costly. There can be no assurance that such laws and regulations or their interpretation will not change in a manner that could materially and adversely affect our operations. Certain environmental laws, such as the CERCLA and its state law counterparts, provide for strict and joint and several liability for investigation and remediation of spills and other releases of toxic and hazardous substances. These laws may apply to conditions at properties currently or formerly owned or operated by an entity or its predecessors, as well as to conditions at properties at which wastes or other contamination attributable to an entity or its predecessors come to be located. Although we have not incurred any material environmental related liability in the past and we believe that we are in material compliance with environmental laws, there can be no assurance that we, or entities for which we may be responsible, will not incur such liability in connection with the investigation and remediation of facilities we currently operate (or formerly owned or operated) or other locations in a manner that could materially and adversely affect our operations.
Governmental Regulation
Many aspects of our operations are subject to governmental regulations in the United States and in other countries in which we operate, including regulations relating to occupational health and workplace safety, principally the Occupational Safety and Health Act and regulations thereunder. In addition, we are subject to licensure and hold or have applied for licenses in each of the states in the United States in which we operate and in certain local jurisdictions within such states. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with applicable laws and permitting requirements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain this status. Further, we cannot determine to what extent future operations and earnings may be affected by new legislation, new regulations or changes in or new interpretations of existing regulations.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Item 1. “Business,” Item 3.