Item 2. Properties-Alexander’s).
At December 31, 2003, the Company had loans receivable from Alexander’s of $124,000,000, including $29,000,000 drawn under a $50,000,000 line of credit. The maturity date of the loans is the earlier of January 3, 2006, or the date the Alexander’s Lexington Avenue construction loan is finally repaid. The Company accrues interest at 12.48% on the loans, which resets quarterly using a 9.48% spread to one-year treasuries with a 3% floor for treasuries.
The Company manages, develops and leases the Alexander’s properties under a management and development agreement and a leasing agreement pursuant to which the Company receives annual fees from Alexander’s. Further, the Company has agreed to guarantee to the construction lender, the lien free, timely completion of the construction of Alexander’s Lexington Avenue development project and funding of project costs in excess of a stated budget, if not funded by Alexander’s. These agreements are described in Note 5 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. See Item 2 - “Properties” for a description of Alexander’s properties and development and redevelopment projects.
Messrs. Roth, Fascitelli, Mandelbaum, West and Wight, trustees of Vornado, are also directors of Alexander’s. Mr. Roth is also Chief Executive Officer of Alexander’s and Mr. Fascitelli is also President of Alexander’s. Joseph Macnow, Executive Vice President - Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of Vornado, is also Chief Financial Officer of Alexander’s.
Alexander’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “ALX”.
INTERSTATE PROPERTIES
As of December 31, 2003, Interstate Properties and its partners owned approximately 11.7% of the common shares of beneficial interest of Vornado, the Company’s sole general partner, 27.5% of Alexander’s common stock and beneficial ownership of 7.9% of Vornado Operating (17.0% assuming redemption of 447,017 units of Vornado Operating that are redeemable for cash, or at Vornado Operating’s election, common stock of Vornado Operating). Interstate Properties is a general partnership in which Steven Roth, David Mandelbaum and Russell B. Wight, Jr. are the partners. Mr. Roth is the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, the Managing General Partner of Interstate Properties, and the Chief Executive Officer and a director of both Alexander’s and Vornado Operating. Mr. Wight is a trustee of the Company and is also a director of both Alexander’s and Vornado Operating. Mr. Mandelbaum is a trustee of the Company and is also a director of Alexander’s.
COMPETITION
The Company’s business segments - Office, Retail, Merchandise Mart Properties, Temperature Controlled Logistics, and Other operate in highly competitive environments. The Company has a large concentration of properties in the New York City metropolitan area and in the Washington, D.C. and Northern Virginia area. The Company competes with a large number of real estate property owners and developers. Principal factors of competition are rent charged, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and breadth and quality of services provided. The Company’s success depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national and local economies, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends.
TENANTS WHICH ACCOUNTED FOR OVER 10% OF REVENUES
In 2003, the Company had 124 separate leases with the U.S. Government, the rent from which accounted for 12.7% of the Company’s total revenues. The loss of this tenant would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s finances as a whole.
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS
The Company’s operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. Under certain of these environmental laws a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. The owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may impair the Company’s ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. The maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and underground storage tanks are also regulated by federal and state laws. The Company could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or tanks or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or exposure at or from the Company’s properties.
Each of the Company’s properties has been subjected to varying degrees of environmental assessment at various times. The environmental assessments did not reveal any environmental condition material to the Company’s business. However, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, discovery of additional sites, human exposure to the contamination or changes in cleanup or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to the Company.
CERTAIN ACTIVITIES
Acquisitions and investments are not required to be based on specific allocation by type of property. The Company has historically held its properties for long-term investment; however, it is possible that properties in the portfolio may be sold in whole or in part, as circumstances warrant, from time to time. Further, the Company has not adopted a policy that limits the amount or percentage of assets which would be invested in a specific property. While the Company may seek the vote of its partners in connection with any particular material transaction, generally the Company’s activities are reviewed and may be modified from time to time by its Board of Trustees without the vote of its partners.
EMPLOYEES
As of December 31, 2003, the Company had approximately 2,700 employees consisting of 1,511 in the Office Properties segment, 61 in the Retail Properties segment, 470 in the Merchandise Mart Properties segment, 440 at the Hotel Pennsylvania and 218 corporate staff. This does not include employees of partially-owned entities.
INSURANCE
The Company carries comprehensive liability and all risk property insurance ((i) fire, (ii) flood, (iii) extended coverage, (iv) “acts of terrorism” as defined in the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 which expires in 2004 with a possible extension through 2005 and (v) rental loss insurance) with respect to its assets. Below is a summary of the all risk property insurance and terrorism risk insurance for each of the Company’s business segments:
(1) Limited as to terrorism insurance by the sub-limit shown in the adjacent column.
In addition to the coverage above, the Company carries lesser amounts of coverage for terrorist acts not covered by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002.
The Company’s debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by its properties (which are generally non-recourse to the Company), its senior unsecured notes due 2007 and 2010 and its revolving credit agreement, contain customary covenants requiring the Company to maintain insurance. Although the Company believes that it has adequate insurance coverage under these agreements, the Company may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at reasonable costs in the future. Further, if lenders insist on greater coverage than the Company is able to obtain, it could adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance and/or refinance its properties and expand its portfolio.
SEGMENT DATA
The Company operates in four business segments: Office Properties, Retail Properties, Merchandise Mart Properties and Temperature Controlled Logistics. The Company engages in no foreign operations. Information related to the Company’s business segments for the years 2003, 2002 and 2001 is set forth in Note 18 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in this annual report on Form 10-K.
The Company’s principal executive offices are located at 888 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York 10019; telephone (212) 894-7000.
MATERIALS AVAILABLE ON VORNADO’S WEBSITE
Copies of Vornado’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as well as Reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5 regarding Officers, Trustees or 10% Beneficial Owners of Vornado, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a), 15(d) or 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through its website (www.vno.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Vornado has made available on its website copies of our Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Corporate Governance Guidelines. In the event of any changes to these charters or the code or guidelines, changed copies will also be made available on the website.
CERTAIN FACTORS THAT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS
Set forth below are certain factors that may adversely affect our business and operations.
Real Estate Investments’ Value and Income Fluctuate Due to Various Factors.
The value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. These conditions may also limit our revenues and available cash.
The factors that affect the value of the our real estate include, among other things, national, regional and local economic conditions; consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the United States; our ability to secure adequate insurance; local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; competition from other available space; whether tenants consider a property attractive; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; whether we are able to pass some or all of any increased operating costs through to tenants; how well we manage our properties; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in real estate taxes and other expenses; changes in market rental rates; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; changes in taxation or zoning laws; government regulation; availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all; potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; and general competitive factors.
The rents we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors. If our rental revenues decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay our indebtedness and distribute to our partners. In addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally do not decline when the related rents decline.
We depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from our tenants, who may not be able to pay.
Our financial results depend on leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. In addition, because substantially all of our income comes from renting of real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to our partners will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent. If a tenant does not pay its rent, we might not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and might incur substantial legal costs. For information regarding the bankruptcy of our tenants, see “-Bankruptcy of tenants may decrease our revenues and available cash” below.
Bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenues and available cash.
A number of companies, including some of our tenants, have declared bankruptcy in recent years, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in the future. If a major tenant declares bankruptcy or becomes insolvent, the rental property where it leases space may have lower revenues and operational difficulties, and, in the case of our shopping centers, we may have difficulty leasing the remainder of the affected property. Our leases generally do not contain restrictions designed to ensure the creditworthiness of its tenants. As a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in a lower level of funds from operations available for distribution to our partners or the payment of our indebtedness.
In February 2003, KoninKlijke Ahold NV, parent of Stop & Shop, announced that it overstated its 2002 and 2001 earnings by at least $500 million and is under investigation by the U.S. Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission. See Item 2. Properties - Retail Segment - Former Bradlees locations for information about former Bradlees leases guaranteed by Stop & Shop. We cannot predict what effect, if any, this situation may have on Stop & Shop’s ability to satisfy its obligation under the Bradlees guarantees and rent for existing Stop & Shop leases aggregating approximately $10.5 million per annum.
The risk that some of our tenants may declare bankruptcy has been higher because of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the resulting decline in the economy. If there is not a sustained recovery of the economy, this risk may increase.
All of Our Temperature Controlled Logistics Warehouses Are Leased to One Tenant, and That Tenant Is Experiencing Operating Difficulties.
The Operating Partnership owns a 60% general partnership interest in a partnership, which we refer to as the “Vornado Crescent Portland Partnership,” that owns 87 cold storage warehouses nationwide with an aggregate of approximately 440.7 million cubic feet of refrigerated, frozen and dry storage space. In 1998, the Vornado Crescent Portland Partnership sold all of the non-real estate assets encompassing the operations of the temperature controlled business to a new partnership named AmeriCold Logistics, owned 60% by Vornado Operating Company, an independent, public company, which we refer to as “Vornado Operating,” and 40% by Crescent Operating Inc. AmeriCold Logistics leases the underlying temperature controlled warehouses used in this business from the Vornado Crescent Portland Partnership (“the Landlord”) which continues to own the real estate. During 2003, AmeriCold Logistics generated approximately 9% of our EBITDA. The leases, as amended, generally have a 15-year term with two-five year renewal options and provide for the payment of fixed base rent and percentage rent based on revenue AmeriCold Logistics receives from its customers. The contractual rent for 2003 was $155,450,000. The Landlord’s share of annual maintenance capital expenditures is $9,500,000. In accordance with the leases, AmeriCold Logistics deferred payment of $41,811,000 of 2003 rent due to the Landlord, of which our share was $25,087,000. Based on the joint venture’s policy of recognizing rental income when earned and collection is assured or cash is received, the joint venture did not recognize the amount of the rent deferred by AmeriCold Logistics in the year ended December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2003, our share of the joint venture’s total deferred rent receivable from the tenant is $49,436,000.
To the extent that the operations of AmeriCold Logistics may affect its ability to pay rent, including percentage rent due under the leases, we indirectly bear the risks associated with AmeriCold Logistics’ cold storage business. The cold storage business is extremely competitive. Factors affecting AmeriCold Logistics’ ability to compete include, among others, (a) general economic conditions, (b) customer policies about outsourcing warehouse and logistic services (c) warehouse locations, (d) customer mix and (e) availability, quality and price of additional services.
Real estate is a competitive business.
For a discussion of risks related to competition in the real estate business, see “Item 1. Business - Competition.”
We may incur costs to comply with environmental laws.
For a discussion of risks related to the Company’s compliance with environmental laws, see “Item 1. Business - Environmental Regulations.”
Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance.
For a discussion of risks related to our insurance coverage, see “Item 1. Business - Insurance.”
Our Investments Are Concentrated in the New York City/New Jersey and Washington, D.C. Metropolitan Areas. Circumstances Affecting These Areas Generally Could Adversely Affect Our Business.
A significant proportion of our properties are in the New York City/New Jersey and Washington, D.C. metropolitan areas and are affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent to those regions.
During 2003, 73% of our EBITDA came from properties located in New Jersey and the New York City and Washington, D.C. metropolitan areas. In addition, we may continue to concentrate a significant portion of our future acquisitions in New Jersey and the New York City and Washington, D.C. metropolitan areas. Like other real estate markets, the real estate markets in these areas have experienced economic downturns in the past, and we cannot predict how the current economic conditions will impact these markets in both the short and long term. Further declines in the economy or a decline in the real estate markets in these areas could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. The factors affecting economic conditions in these regions include: space needs of the United States Government, business layoffs or downsizing; industry slowdowns; relocations of businesses; changing demographics; increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places; financial performance and productivity of the publishing, advertising, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries; infrastructure quality; and any oversupply of or reduced demand for real estate.
It is impossible for us to assess the future effects of the current uncertain trends in the economic and investment climates of the New York City/New Jersey and Washington, D.C. regions, and more generally of the United States, or the real estate markets in these areas. If these conditions persist or if any local, national or global economic recovery is of a short term, businesses and future profitability may be adversely affected.
Terrorist Attacks such as those of September 11, 2001 in New York City and the Washington, D.C. Area May Adversely Affect the Value of Our Properties and Our Ability to Generate Cash Flow.
We have significant investments in large metropolitan areas, including the New York/New Jersey, Washington, D.C. and Chicago metropolitan areas. In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks, tenants in these areas may choose to relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the United States that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity. This in turn would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. As a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues could decline materially.
We May Acquire or Sell Additional Assets or Develop Additional Properties. Our Failure or Inability to Consummate These Transactions or Manage the Results of These Transactions Could Adversely Affect Our Operations and Financial Results.
We have grown rapidly through acquisitions. We may not be able to maintain this rapid growth and our failure to do so could adversely affect our stock price.
We have experienced rapid growth in recent years, increasing our total assets from approximately $565 million at December 31, 1996, to approximately $9.5 billion at December 31, 2003. We may not be able to maintain a similar rate of growth in the future or manage our growth effectively. Our failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our partners.
We may acquire or develop new properties and this may create risks.
We may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate companies when we believe that an acquisition or development is consistent with our business strategies. We may not, however, succeed in consummating desired acquisitions or in completing developments on time or within budget. We also may not succeed in leasing newly developed or acquired properties at rents sufficient to cover their costs of acquisition or development and operations. Difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management’s attention.
It may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly.
Real estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly. Consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.
We may not be permitted to dispose of certain properties or pay down the debt associated with those properties when we might otherwise desire to do so without incurring additional costs.
As part of an acquisition of a property, including our January 1, 2002, acquisition of CESCR’s 13.0 million square foot portfolio, we may agree, and in the case of CESCR did agree with the seller that we will not dispose of the acquired properties or reduce the mortgage indebtedness on them for significant periods of time unless we pay certain of the resulting tax costs of the seller. These agreements could result in our holding on to properties that we would otherwise sell and not pay down or refinance indebtedness that we would otherwise pay down or refinance.
On January 1, 2002, we completed the acquisition of the 66% interest in CESCR that we did not previously own. The terms of the merger restrict our ability to sell or otherwise dispose of, or to finance or refinance, the properties formerly owned by Charles E. Smith Commercial Realty L.P., which could result in our inability to sell these properties at an opportune time and increased costs to us.
Subject to limited exceptions, we are restricted from selling or otherwise transferring or disposing of certain properties located in the Crystal City area of Arlington, Virginia or an interest in our division that manages the majority of our office properties in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area, which we refer to as the CESCR Division, for a period of 12 years with respect to certain properties located in the Crystal City area of Arlington, Virginia or six years with respect to an interest in the CESCR Division. These restrictions, which currently cover approximately 13.0 million square feet of space, could result in our inability to sell these properties or an interest in the CESCR Division at an opportune time and increase costs to us.
Our Organizational and Financial Structure Gives Rise to Operational and Financial Risks.
Vornado May Not Be Able to Obtain Capital to Make Investments.
Vornado depends primarily on external financing to fund the growth of its business. This is because one of the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for a REIT is that it distribute 90% of its net taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders (there is a separate requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level tax in lieu). Our access to debt or equity financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments and on conditions in the capital markets generally. We and other companies in the real estate industry have experienced limited availability of financing from time to time. Although we believe that we will be able to finance any investments we may wish to make in the foreseeable future, new financing may not be available on acceptable terms.
For information about our available sources of funds, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on Form 10-K.
The Company depends on its direct and indirect subsidiaries’ dividends and distributions, and these subsidiaries’ creditors and preferred security holders are entitled to payment of amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before the subsidiaries may pay any distributions to the Company.
Substantially all of the Company’s properties and assets are held through subsidiaries. The Company therefore depends for substantially all of its cash flow on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries. The creditors of each of the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary’s obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. Thus, the Company’s ability to make distributions to holders of units depends on its subsidiaries’ ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to the Company.
In addition, the Company’s participation in any distribution of the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency of the subsidiary, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors, and preferred security holders, if any, of the subsidiary are satisfied.
We have indebtedness, and this indebtedness may increase.
As of December 31, 2003, we had approximately $5.115 billion in total debt outstanding. Our ratio of total debt to total enterprise value was 35%. When we say “enterprise value” in the preceding sentence, we mean market equity value of Vornado Realty Trust plus debt less cash. In the future, we may incur additional debt, and thus increase its ratio of total debt to total enterprise value, to finance acquisitions or property developments.
Loss of the Company’s key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares.
We are dependent on the efforts of Steven Roth, the Chairman of the Board of Trustees and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado Realty Trust, and Michael D. Fascitelli, the President of Vornado Realty Trust. While we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value or our common shares.
Our Ownership Structure and Related-Party Transactions May Give Rise to Conflicts of Interest.
Steven Roth and Interstate Properties may exercise substantial influence over the Company. They and some of the Company’s other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with the Company.
As of December 31, 2003, Interstate Properties, a New Jersey general partnership, and its partners owned approximately 11.7% of the common shares of Vornado, the Company’s general partner and approximately 27.5% of the common stock of Alexander’s, Inc. and beneficially owned approximately 7.9% of the common stock of Vornado Operating (approximately 17.0% assuming redemption of 447,017 units of Vornado Operating L.P., the operating subsidiary of Vornado Operating, that are beneficially owned by Interstate Properties and redeemable for common stock of Vornado Operating). Steven Roth, David Mandelbaum and Russell B. Wight, Jr. are the three partners of Interstate Properties. Mr. Roth is the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado, the managing general partner of Interstate Properties, the Chief Executive Officer and a director of Alexander’s and the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado Operating. Mr. Wight is a trustee of Vornado and is also a director of both Alexander’s and Vornado Operating. Mr. Mandelbaum is a trustee of Vornado and is also a director of Alexander’s.
As of December 31, 2003, we owned 33.1% of the outstanding common stock of Alexander’s. Alexander’s is a REIT engaged in leasing, managing, developing and redeveloping properties, focusing primarily on the locations where its department stores operated before they ceased operations in 1992. Alexander’s has six properties, which are located in the New York City metropolitan area. Mr. Roth and Mr. Fascitelli, the President and a trustee of Vornado, are directors of Alexander’s. Messrs. Mandelbaum, West and Wight are trustees of Vornado and are also directors of Alexander’s.
Because of these overlapping interests, Mr. Roth and Interstate Properties and its partners may have substantial influence over Vornado (and therefore the Company), Alexander’s and Vornado Operating and on the outcome of any matters submitted to Vornado, Alexander’s or Vornado Operating’s shareholders for approval. In addition, certain decisions concerning the Company’s operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest among Messrs. Roth, Mandelbaum and Wight and Interstate Properties and the Company’s other equity or debt holders. In addition, Mr. Roth and Interstate Properties and its partners currently and may in the future engage in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business which may result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting the Company, Alexander’s or Vornado Operating, such as which of these entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of potential business opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the types of properties and geographic locations in which these entities make investments, potential competition between business activities conducted, or sought to be conducted, by the Company, Interstate Properties, Alexander’s and Vornado Operating, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate transactions such as acquisitions and other strategic decisions affecting the future of these entities.
The Company currently manages and leases the real estate assets of Interstate Properties under a management agreement for which the Company receives an annual fee equal to 4% of base rent and percentage rent and certain other commissions. The management agreement has a term of one year and is automatically renewable unless terminated by either of the parties on 60 days’ notice at the end of the term. The Company earned $703,000, $747,000 and $1,133,000 of management fees under the management agreement for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. In addition, during fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, as a result of a previously existing leasing arrangement with Alexander’s, Alexander’s paid to Interstate $587,000, $703,000 and $522,000, respectively, for the leasing an other services actually rendered by the Company. Upon receipt of these payments, Interstate promptly paid them over to the Company without
retaining any interest therein. This arrangement was terminated in 2003 and all payments by Alexander’s for these leasing and other services are made directly to the Company. Because the Company and Interstate Properties are controlled by the same persons, as described above, the terms of the management agreement and any future agreements between the Company and Interstate Properties may not be comparable to those the Company could have negotiated with an unaffiliated third party.
We engage in transactions with Vornado Operating on terms that may or may not be comparable to those it could negotiate with unaffiliated third parties.
In October 1998, Vornado Operating was spun off from the Company in order to own assets that the Company could not itself own and conduct activities that the Company could not itself conduct. In addition to being trustees of Vornado, Messrs. Roth, Fascitelli, West and Wight are directors of Vornado Operating. Mr. Roth is also Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado Operating, Mr. Fascitelli is also President of Vornado Operating, and certain other members of the Company’s senior management hold corresponding positions with Vornado Operating.
The Company entered into a $75,000,000 unsecured revolving credit facility with Vornado Operating that expires on December 31, 2004. Borrowings under the revolving credit agreement bear interest at LIBOR plus 3%. The Company receives an annual commitment fee equal to 1% on the average daily unused portion of the facility. Vornado Operating is not required to pay any amortization under the revolving credit agreement during its term. The revolving credit agreement prohibits Vornado Operating from incurring indebtedness to third parties, other than certain purchase money debt and certain other exceptions, and prohibits Vornado Operating from paying dividends. As of December 31, 2003, $21,989,000 was the carrying balance on our books for the amount outstanding under the revolving credit agreement.
The Company and Vornado Operating are parties to an agreement under which, among other things, (a) we will offer Vornado Operating, under certain circumstances, an opportunity to become the lessee of certain real property owned now or in the future by us under mutually satisfactory lease terms and (b) Vornado Operating will not make any real estate investment or other investments known as REIT-qualified investments unless it first offers us the opportunity to make the investment and we have rejected that opportunity. Under this agreement, we provide Vornado Operating with administrative, corporate, accounting, financial, insurance, legal, tax, data processing, human resources and operational services. For these services, Vornado Operating compensates us in an amount determined in good faith by us as the amount an unaffiliated third party would charge Vornado Operating for comparable services and reimburses us for certain costs incurred and paid to third parties on behalf of Vornado Operating. Under this agreement, compensation for these services was approximately $330,000, for each of the years ended December 31, 2003, and 2002 and $371,000 for the year ended December 31, 2001. Vornado Operating and the Company each have the right to terminate this agreement if the other party is in material default of the agreement or upon 90 days’ written notice to the other party at any time. In addition, we have the right to terminate this agreement upon a change in control of Vornado Operating.
Vornado Operating’s restated certificate of incorporation specifies that one of its corporate purposes is to perform this agreement and, for so long as the agreement remains in effect, prohibits Vornado Operating from making any real estate investment or other REIT-qualified investment without first offering the opportunity to the Company in the manner specified in the agreement.
The Company and Vornado Operating may enter into additional transactions in the future. Because the Company and Vornado Operating share common senior management and because four of the Company’s trustees also constitute the majority of the directors of Vornado Operating, the terms of the foregoing agreements and any future agreements between us and Vornado Operating may not be comparable to those we could have negotiated with an unaffiliated third party.
There may be conflicts of interest between Alexander’s and Us
As of December 31, 2003, the Operating Partnership owned 33.1% of the outstanding common stock of Alexander’s. Alexander’s is a REIT engaged in leasing, managing, developing and redeveloping properties, focusing primarily on the locations where its department stores operated before they ceased operations in 1992. Alexander’s has six properties. Interstate Properties, which is further described above, owned an additional 27.5% of the outstanding common stock of Alexander’s as of December 31, 2003. Mr. Roth, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado, is Chief Executive Officer and a director of Alexander’s, and Mr. Fascitelli, President and a trustee of Vornado, is President and a director of Alexander’s. Messrs. Mandelbaum, West and Wight, trustees of Vornado, are also directors of Alexander’s. Alexander’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “ALX.”
At December 31, 2003, the Company had loans receivable from Alexander’s of $124,000,000 at an interest rate of 12.48%, including $29,000,000 drawn under a $50,000,000 line of credit. The maturity date of the loans is the earlier of January 3, 2006 or the date that Alexander’s Lexington Avenue construction loan is repaid fully. The Operating Partnership manages, develops and leases the Alexander’s properties under management and development agreements and leasing agreements under which the Operating Partnership receives annual fees from Alexander’s. These agreements have a one-year term expiring in March of each year, except that the Lexington Avenue management and development agreements have a term lasting until substantial completion of development of the Lexington Avenue property, and are all automatically renewable. Because the Company and Alexander’s share common senior management and because a majority of the trustees of Vornado also constitute the majority of the directors of Alexander’s, the terms of the foregoing agreements and any future agreements between us and Alexander’s may not be comparable to those we could have negotiated with an unaffiliated third party.
For a description of Interstate Properties’ ownership of Vornado, Vornado Operating and Alexander’s, see “Steven Roth and Interstate Properties may exercise substantial influence over the Company. They and some of the Company’s other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with the Company” above.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Company currently owns, directly or indirectly, Office properties, Retail properties, Merchandise Mart properties and Temperature Controlled Logistics refrigerated warehouses. The Company also owns or has investments in Alexander’s, Hotel Pennsylvania, The Newkirk Master Limited Partnership, and dry warehouses and industrial buildings.
Office Segment
The Company currently owns all or a portion of 83 office properties containing approximately 27.3 million square feet. Of these properties, 20, containing 13.3 million square feet, are located in the New York City metropolitan area (primarily Manhattan) (the “New York City Office Properties”) and 63, containing 14.0 million square feet, are located in the Washington, D.C. and Northern Virginia area (the “CESCR Office Properties”).
New York City Office Properties:
The New York City Office Properties contain 12,456,000 square feet of office space and 797,000 square feet of retail space. In addition, the New York City Office properties contain five garages totaling 332,000 square feet (1,600 spaces) which are managed by or leased to third parties. The garage space is excluded from the statistics provided in this section.
On May 2, 2003, the Company acquired the remaining 40% of a 78-year leasehold interest in 20 Broad Street it did not already own. The purchase price was approximately $30,000,000 in cash. 20 Broad Street contains 466,000 square feet of office space, of which 348,000 square feet is leased to the New York Stock Exchange.
On October 10, 2003, the Company sold Two Park Avenue, a 965,000 square foot office building, for $292,000,000 to SEB Immobilien-Investment GMBH, a German capital investment company. The Company’s net gain on the sale after closing costs was approximately $156,433,000.
The following table sets forth the percentage of the New York City Office Properties 2003 revenue by tenants’ industry:
The Company’s New York City Office property lease terms generally range from five to seven years for smaller tenant spaces to as long as 15 years for major tenants, and may include extension options at market rates. Leases typically provide for step-ups in rent periodically over the term of the lease and pass through to tenants the tenant’s share of increases in real estate taxes and operating expenses over a base year. Electricity is provided to tenants on a sub-metered basis or included in rent based on surveys and adjusted for subsequent utility rate increases. Leases also typically provide for tenant improvement allowances for all or a portion of the tenant’s initial construction costs of its premises.
No tenant in the New York City office segment accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s 2003 total revenue. Below is a listing of tenants that accounted for 2% or more of the New York City Office Properties revenues in 2003:
The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and the average annual escalated rent per square foot for the New York City Office properties, excluding garage space, at the end of each of the past five years.
During 2003, 1,017,000 square feet of New York City office space was leased at a weighted average initial rent per square foot of $44.28. The Company’s ownership interest in the leased square footage is 925,000 square feet at a weighted average initial rent per square foot of $44.60, a 15% increase over the weighted average escalated rent per square foot of $38.51 for the expiring leases. Following is the detail by building:
(1) Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent, which are not reflected in the initial rent per square foot leased.
In addition to the office space noted above, the Company leased 66,000 square feet of retail space at a weighted average initial rent of $220.97 per square foot.
The following tables set forth lease expirations for the office and retail portions of the New York City Office Properties as of December 31, 2003, for each of the next 10 years assuming that none of the tenants exercise their renewal options.
Office Space:
(1) Excludes 492,000 square feet at 909 Third Avenue leased to the U.S. Post Office for which the annual escalated rent is $4,412,000 or $8.96 per square foot. The U.S. Post Office has 6 five-year renewal options remaining.
Retail Space (contained in office buildings):
The following table sets forth the New York City Office Properties owned by the Company as of December 31, 2003:
(1) These properties are 100% ground leased with the exception of 150 East 58th Street where less than 10% is ground leased.
(2) Excludes 114,119 square feet under development.
Charles E. Smith Commercial Realty (“CESCR”) Office Properties:
CESCR owns 63 office buildings in the Washington D.C. and Northern Virginia area containing 14.0 million square feet and manages an additional 8.5 million square feet of office and other commercial properties. In addition, CESCR’s buildings contain 19 garages totaling approximately 7.4 million square feet (25,000 spaces) which are managed by or leased to third parties. The garage space is excluded from the statistics provided in this section. As of December 31, 2003, 44 percent of CESCR’s property portfolio is leased to various agencies of the U.S. government.
On April 9, 2003, the Company acquired Kaempfer which owns partial interests in six Class “A” office properties in Washington D.C. containing 1.8 million square feet, manages and leases these properties and four others for which it receives customary fees and has options to acquire certain other real estate interests, including the Waterfront project discussed below. Kaempfer’s equity interest in the properties approximates 5.0%. The aggregate purchase price for the equity interests and the management and leasing business was $32,200,000 consisting of $28,600,000 in cash, approximately 99,300 Operating Partnership units valued at $3,600,000 and may be increased by up to $9,000,000 based on the performance of the management company.
On October 7, 2003, the Company acquired a 2.5% interest in the planned redevelopment of Waterfront, located at 401 M Street, a mixed-use project in Washington D.C. (“the Waterfront interest”) for $2,171,000, of which the Company paid $1,545,000 in cash and issued 12,500 Operating Partnership units valued at $626,000. The partnership units were issued to Mitchell N. Schear, one of the partners in the Waterfront interest, who became the President of the Company’s CESCR division.
On August 4, 2003, the Company completed the acquisition of 2101 L Street, a 370,000 square foot office building located in Washington D.C. The consideration for the acquisition consisted of approximately 1.1 million newly issued Operating Partnership units (valued at approximately $49,517,000) and the assumption of existing mortgage debt and transaction costs totaling approximately $32,000,000. Robert H. Smith and Robert P. Kogod, trustees of Vornado, together with family members owned approximately 24 percent of the limited partnership that sold the building and Mr. Smith was a general partner. On August 5, 2003, the Company repaid the mortgage of $29,056,000.
The following table sets forth the percentage of CESCR’s Office properties 2003 revenue by tenants’ industry:
CESCR office leases are typically for four to seven year terms, and may provide for extension options at either pre-negotiated or market rates. Most leases provide for annual rental escalations throughout the lease term, plus recovery of increases in real estate taxes and certain property operating expenses over a base year. Annual rental escalations are typically based upon either fixed percentage increases or the consumer price index. Leases also typically provide for tenant improvement allowances for all or a portion of the tenant’s initial construction costs of its premises.
Below is a listing of tenants which accounted for 2% or more of the CESCR Office properties revenues during 2003:
The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and the average annual escalated rent per square foot for the CESCR properties at the end of each of the past five years:
During 2003, 2,848,000 square feet of CESCR office space was leased at a weighted average initial rent per square foot of $30.26, a 2.6% increase over the weighted average escalated rent per square foot of $29.86 for the expiring leases. Following is the detail by building and/or complex:
(1) Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent which are not reflected in the initial rent per square foot leased.
The following table sets forth lease expirations for the CESCR Office Properties as of December 31, 2003 for each of the next 10 years, assuming that none of the tenants exercise their renewal options.
Included in the above table is 1,939,000 square feet leased to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”) in the Crystal City submarket. The PTO lease expirations are as follows:
The average annual escalated rent per square foot of the PTO space is $26.61. The average escalated rent per square foot of CESCR space expiring in 2004 in the Crystal City submarket is $28.56. The Company plans substantial renovations to this space as outlined in Item 1 - Business “Development and Redevelopment Projects”.
The following table sets forth the CESCR Office Properties owned by the Company as of December 31, 2003:
(1) These properties are 100% ground leased.
Retail Segment
The Company owns 60 retail properties, of which 48 are strip shopping centers primarily located in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic states; five are regional malls located in New York, New Jersey and San Juan, Puerto Rico; and seven are retail properties located in Manhattan. The Company’s strip shopping centers and malls are generally located on major regional highways in mature, densely populated areas. The Company believes these properties attract consumers from a regional, rather than a neighborhood market place because of their location on regional highways.
The Company’s strip shopping centers contain an aggregate of 8.8 million square feet and are substantially (over 80%) leased to large stores (over 20,000 square feet). Tenants include destination retailers such as discount department stores, supermarkets, home improvement stores, discount apparel stores, membership warehouse clubs and “category killers.” Category killers are large stores that offer a complete selection of a category of items (e.g., toys, office supplies, etc.) at low prices, often in a warehouse format. Tenants typically offer basic consumer necessities such as food, health and beauty aids, moderately priced clothing, building materials and home improvement supplies, and compete primarily on the basis of price and location.
The Company’s five regional malls are as follows :
The Green Acres Mall in Long Island, New York contains 1.6 million square feet, and is anchored by four major department stores: Sears, Roebuck and Co., J.C. Penney Company, Inc., Federated Department Stores, Inc. (“Federated”) doing business as Macy’s, and Federated doing business as Stern’s, that is currently dark. In February 2004, the Company entered into an agreement with Federated to take back 63,000 square feet of the former Stern’s store. The remainder of the Stern’s space will be operated as a Macy’s Men’s Store and a Macy’s Home Store. Federated will continue to pay the same rent (exclusive of real estate taxes for the space taken back by the Company). The complex also includes The Plaza at Green Acres, a 172,000 square foot strip shopping center which is anchored by Wal-Mart and National Wholesale Liquidators. The Company plans to renovate the interior of the mall. In addition, the Company will construct 70,000 square feet of free-standing retail space and parking decks in the complex, subject to governmental approvals. Further, the Company has entered into a ground lease with B.J.’s Wholesale Club who will construct its own free-standing store in the complex. The expansion and renovation are expected to be completed by 2006.
The Monmouth Mall, located in Eatontown, New Jersey was acquired on October 10, 2002, by a joint venture in which the Company has a 50% interest. The mall contains 1.5 million square feet and is anchored by four department store tenants (Macy’s, Lord & Taylor, J.C. Penney’s and Boscovs), three of which own their stores aggregating 719,000 square feet.
The Bergen Mall in Paramus, New Jersey, contains 903,000 square feet and is anchored by Macy’s, Value City, Marshalls and Off Saks Fifth Avenue. The Bergen Mall was acquired on December 12, 2003, for approximately $145,000,000.
The Montehiedra Mall in San Juan, Puerto Rico, contains 554,000 square feet and is anchored by Home Depot, Kmart, and Marshalls.
The Las Catalinas Mall in San Juan, Puerto Rico, contains 493,000 square feet and is anchored by Kmart and Sears, which owns its store.
The following table sets forth the percentage of the Retail Properties 2003 revenues by type of retailer:
The Company’s shopping center lease terms range from five years or less in some instances for smaller tenant spaces to as long as 25 years for major tenants. Leases generally provide for additional rents based on a percentage of tenants’ sales and pass through to tenants of the tenants’ share of all common area charges (including roof and structure in strip shopping centers, unless it is the tenant’s direct responsibility), real estate taxes and insurance costs and certain capital expenditures. Percentage rent accounted for less than 1% of total shopping center revenues in 2003. None of the tenants in the Retail Segment accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s 2003 total revenues.
Below is a listing of tenants which accounted for 2% or more of the Retail properties revenues in 2003:
The aggregate occupancy rate for the 12,889,000 square feet of retail properties at December 31, 2003 is 93.0%. The occupancy rate includes leases for 691,000 square feet (6%) at four locations, which have not commenced at December 31, 2003. The following sets forth the occupancy rate and the average annual base rent per square foot for the Strip Shopping Centers and Regional Malls at the end of each of the past five years.
Strip Shopping Centers:
Regional Malls:
Manhattan Retail and Other:
The Manhattan retail is comprised of seven properties containing 325,000 square feet, including 4 Union Square South, containing 198,000 square feet, which is currently under development.
The Company has two strip shopping centers aggregating 327,000 square feet which are classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2003.
During 2003, approximately 803,000 square feet of retail space was leased at a weighted average rent per square foot of $17.40, an 11.6% increase over the weighted average rent per square foot of $15.59 for the expiring leases and 243,000 square feet of land was ground leased to retailers at a weighted average rent per square foot of $10.60. Following is the detail by property:
(1) Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent, which are not reflected in the initial rent per square foot leased.
Former Bradlees locations:
Property rentals for the year ended December 31, 2003, include $5,000,000 of additional rent which, effective December 31, 2002, was re-allocated to the former Bradlees locations in Marlton, Turnersville, Bensalem and Broomall and is payable by Stop & Shop, pursuant to the Master Agreement and Guaranty, dated May 1, 1992. This amount is in addition to all other rent guaranteed by Stop & Shop for the former Bradlees locations. On January 8, 2003, Stop & Shop filed a complaint with the United States District Court claiming the Company has no right to reallocate and therefore continue to collect the $5,000,000 of annual rent from Stop & Shop because of the expiration of the East Brunswick, Jersey City, Middletown, Union and Woodbridge leases to which the $5,000,000 of additional rent was previously allocated. The Company believes the additional rent provision of the guaranty expires at the earliest in 2012 and is vigorously contesting Stop & Shop’s position.
In February 2003, Koninklijke Ahold NV, parent of Stop & Shop, announced that it overstated its 2002 and 2001 earnings by at least $500 million and is under investigation by the U.S. Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company cannot predict what effect, if any, this situation may have on Stop & Shop’s ability to satisfy its obligation under the Bradlees guarantees and rent for existing Stop & Shop leases aggregating approximately $10.5 million per annum.
The following table sets forth the lease expirations for the Retail Properties as of December 31, 2003 for each of the next 10 years assuming that none of the tenants exercise their renewal options.
The following table sets forth the Retail Properties owned by the Company as of December 31, 2003:
(1) 100% ground and/or building leasehold interest; other than Green Acres, where approximately 10% of the ground is leased.
(2) These encumbrances are cross collateralized under a blanket mortgage in the amount of $481,902 at December 31, 2003.
Merchandise Mart Segment
The Merchandise Mart Properties are a portfolio of 9 properties containing an aggregate of 8.6 million square feet.
Below is a breakdown of square feet by location and use as of December 31, 2003.
In addition to the Office, Showroom and Retail space, the Merchandise Mart Properties contains eight parking garages totaling 1,200,000 square feet (3,600 spaces). The garage space is excluded from the statistics provided in this section.
Office Space
The following table sets forth the percentage of the Merchandise Mart Properties 2003 office revenues by tenants’ industry during 2003:
The Company’s Merchandise Mart properties lease terms generally range from three to seven years for smaller tenants to as long as 15 years for large tenants. Leases typically provide for step-ups in rent periodically over the term of the lease and pass through to tenants the tenants’ share of increases in real estate taxes and operating expenses for a building over a base year. Electricity is provided to tenants on a sub-metered basis or included in rent and adjusted for subsequent utility rate increases. Leases also typically provide for tenant improvement allowances for all or a portion of the tenant’s initial construction of its premises.
No tenant in the Merchandise Mart properties segment accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s 2003 total revenue. Below is a listing of the Merchandise Mart Properties office tenants which accounted for 2% or more of the Merchandise Mart Properties’ revenues in 2003:
The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and the average annual escalated rent per square foot for the Merchandise Mart Properties’ office space at the end of each of the past five years.
During 2003, 270,000 square feet of Merchandise Mart Properties office space was leased at a weighted average initial rent per square foot of $21.24, a decrease of 5.3% over the weighted average escalated rent per square foot of $22.44 for the leases expiring. Following is the detail by building:
(1) Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent, which are not reflected in the initial rent per square foot leased.
The following table sets forth lease expirations for the Merchandise Mart Properties office space as of December 31, 2003 for each of the next 10 years assuming that none of the tenants exercise their renewal options.
Showroom Space
The showrooms provide manufacturers and wholesalers with permanent and temporary space in which to display products for buyers, specifiers and end users. The showrooms are also used for hosting trade shows for the contract furniture, casual furniture, gifts, carpet, residential furnishings, building products, crafts, apparel and design industries. Merchandise Mart Properties own and operate five of the leading furniture and gifts trade shows including the contract furniture industry’s largest annual trade show, NeoCon, which attracts over 40,000 attendees each June and is hosted at the Merchandise Mart building in Chicago. The Market Square Complex co-hosts the home furniture industry’s semi-annual (April and October) market weeks which occupy over 11,500,000 square feet in the High Point, North Carolina region.
The following table sets forth the percentage of the Merchandise Mart Properties 2003 showroom revenues by tenants’ industry:
The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and the average escalated rent per square foot for this space at the end of each of the past five years.
During 2003, 1,157,000 square feet of Merchandise Mart Properties showroom space was leased at a weighted average initial rent per square foot of $23.43, a 0.6% increase over the weighted average escalated rent per square foot of $23.28 for the leases expiring. Following is the detail by building:
(1) Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent which are not reflected in the initial rent per square foot leased.
The following table sets forth lease expirations for the Merchandise Mart Properties showroom space as of December 31, 2003 for each of the next 10 years assuming that none of the tenants exercise their renewal options.
Retail Space
The Merchandise Mart Properties portfolio also contains approximately 140,000 square feet of retail space which was 88.8% occupied at December 31, 2003.
The following table sets forth the Merchandise Mart Properties owned by the Company as of December 31, 2003:
Temperature Controlled Logistics Segment
The Company has a 60% interest in Vornado Crescent Portland Partnership (“the Landlord”) that owns 87 temperature controlled warehouses, through a wholly-owned subsidiary (AmeriCold Realty Trust), with an aggregate of approximately 440.7 million cubic feet. AmeriCold Logistics leases all of the partnerships’ facilities. The Temperature Controlled Logistics segment is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia.
AmeriCold Logistics provides the food industry with refrigerated warehousing and transportation management services. Refrigerated warehouses are comprised of production, distribution and public facilities. Production facilities typically serve one or a small number of customers, generally food processors that are located nearby. These customers store large quantities of processed or partially processed products in the facilities until they are shipped to the next stage of production or distribution. Distribution facilities primarily warehouse a wide variety of customers’ finished products until future shipment to end-users. Each distribution facility generally services the surrounding regional market. Public facilities generally serve the needs of local and regional customers under short-term agreements. Food manufacturers and processors use these facilities to store capacity overflow from their production facilities or warehouses. AmeriCold Logistics’ transportation management services include freight routing, dispatching, freight rate negotiation, backhaul coordination, freight bill auditing, network flow management, order consolidation and distribution channel assessment. AmeriCold Logistics’ temperature controlled logistics expertise and access to both frozen food warehouses and distribution channels enable its customers to respond quickly and efficiently to time-sensitive orders from distributors and retailers.
AmeriCold Logistics’ customers consist primarily of national, regional and local frozen food manufacturers, distributors, retailers and food service organizations. Below is a listing of customers which accounted for 2% or more of AmeriCold Logistics’ revenue in 2003:
On February 5, 2004, AmeriCold Realty Trust completed a $254,400,000 mortgage financing for 21 of its owned and 7 of its leased temperature-controlled warehouses. The loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.95% (with a LIBOR floor of 1.5% with respect to $54,400,000 of the loan) and requires principal payments of $5,000,000 annually. The loan matures in April 2009 and is pre-payable without penalty after February 5, 2006. The net proceeds were approximately $225,000,000 after providing for usual escrows, closing costs and the repayment of $12,900,000 of existing mortgages on two of the warehouses, of which $135,000,000 was distributed to the Company and the remainder was distributed to its partner.
On February 23, 2004, AmeriCold Logistics announced that Alec Covington resigned as President and Chief Executive Officer effective March 31, 2004, to take an opportunity in an unrelated industry. A search to identify a successor is currently underway.
The following table sets forth certain information for the Temperature Controlled Logistics properties as of December 31, 2003:
(1) Leasehold interest
Alexander’s
The Company owns 33.1% of Alexander’s outstanding common shares. The following table shows the location, approximate size and leasing status of each of the properties owned by Alexander’s as of December 31, 2003.
(1) Excludes parking garages.
(2) Excludes 339,000 square foot Macy’s store, owned and operated by Federated Department Stores, Inc.
(3) Leased by Alexander’s through January 2027.
(4) Ground leased to IKEA.
The development at Lexington Avenue consists of an approximately 1.3 million square foot multi-use building. The building will contain approximately 885,000 net rentable square feet of office space, approximately 171,000 net rentable square feet of retail space and approximately 248,000 net saleable square feet of residential space consisting of condominium units (through a taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”)). Of the construction budget of $630,000,000 (which excludes $29,000,000 for development and guarantee fees to the Company), $402,000,000 has been expended through December 31, 2003 and an additional $62,200,000 has been committed to at December 31, 2003. Construction is expected to be completed in 2005.
Bloomberg L.P. has leased 695,000 square feet of the office space (the “Bloomberg Space”). On November 15, 2003 Alexander’s delivered approximately 87% of that space. As of February 9, 2004, the remainder of the Bloomberg space has been delivered. At December 31, 2003, 115,000 square feet of retail space has been leased, of which the Home Depot and Hennes & Mauritz have leased 83,000 and 27,000 square feet, respectively. The residential space is comprised of 105 condominium units. The original offering plan filed for these units, as amended for price increases through December 31, 2003, would produce (inclusive of the value of existing contracts) an aggregate sale price of $457,000,000. As of December 31, 2003, Alexander’s has received deposits of $10,425,000 on sales of the condominium units.
On February 13, 2004, Alexander’s completed a $400,000,000 mortgage financing on the Office Space of its Lexington Avenue development project placed by German American Capital Corporation, an affiliate of Deutsche Bank. The loan bears interest at 5.33%, matures in February 2014 and beginning in the third year, provides for principal payments based on a 25-year amortization schedule such that over the remaining eight years of the loan, ten years of amortization will be paid. Of the loan proceeds, $253,529,000 was used to repay the entire amount outstanding under the Construction Loan with HVB Real Estate Capital (Hypo). The Construction Loan was modified so that the remaining availability is $237,000,000, which is approximately the amount estimated to complete the Lexington Avenue development project. The interest rate on the Construction Loan is LIBOR plus 2.5% (currently 3.64%) and matures in January 2006, with two one-year extensions. The collateral for the Construction Loan is the same, except that the Office Space has been removed from the lien. Further, the Construction Loan permits the release of the retail space for $15,000,000 and requires all proceeds from the sale of the residential condominiums units to be applied to the Construction Loan balance until it is finally repaid. In connection with reducing the principal amount of the Construction loan Alexander’s will write-off $3,050,000 of unamortized deferred financing costs in the first quarter of 2004, of which the Company’s share is $1,010,000.
The Company has agreed to guarantee to the construction lender, the lien free, timely completion of the construction of the project and funding of project costs in excess of a stated loan budget, if not funded by Alexander’s (the “Completion Guarantee”). The $6,300,000 estimated fee payable by Alexander’s to the Company for the Completion Guarantee is 1% of construction costs (as defined). Based upon the current status of construction, Management does not anticipate the need to fund pursuant to the Completion Guarantee.
The Newkirk Master Limited Partnership
In 1998, the Company and affiliates of Apollo Real Estate Investment Fund III, L.P. (“Apollo”) formed a joint venture (30% owned by the Company and 70% owned by Apollo) (“Newkirk JV”) to acquire general and limited partnership interests in a portfolio of 104 partnerships, which own triple net leased properties. Since its formation, Newkirk JV has acquired equity interests in the above partnerships, which own approximately 19.6 million square feet of real estate and acquired certain first and second mortgages (“Contract Rights”) secured by a portion of these properties. On January 1, 2002, Newkirk JV completed a merger of 91 of the partnerships as well as the other assets it owned relating to the other 13 partnerships into The Newkirk Master Limited Partnership (“MLP”). The partnerships were merged into MLP to create a vehicle to enable the partners to have greater access to capital and future investment opportunities. In connection with the merger, the Company received limited partner interests in the MLP equal to an approximate 21.1% interest and Apollo received limited partner interests in the MLP equal to an approximate 54.5% interest. At December 31, 2003, the Company has a 22.6% interest in the MLP and Apollo has a 54.1% interest. Newkirk JV is the general partner of the MLP.
Simultaneously with the merger on January 1, 2002, the MLP completed a $225,000,000 secured financing collateralized by its interests in the entities that own the properties, subject to the existing first and certain second mortgages on those properties. The loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 5.5% with a LIBOR floor of 3% (8.5% at December 31, 2003) and matures on January 31, 2005, with two one-year extension options. As a result of the financing, on February 6, 2002 the MLP repaid approximately $28,200,000 of existing joint venture debt and distributed approximately $37,000,000 to the Company.
On November 24, 2003, Newkirk JV and the MLP obtained new financing in the amount of $525,000,000. Of this amount $316,527,000 is secured by the Contract Rights and guaranteed by the MLP and $208,473,000 is secured by the assets of the MLP. The loan bears interest at a rate equal to the lesser of (i) LIBOR plus 4.5% or (ii) Prime plus 2.5%. The loan matures on November 24, 2006 and has two one-year extensions. The proceeds of the loan were used primarily to repay the MLP’s outstanding balance of the existing $225,000,000 credit facility and to distribute funds to its partners, of which the Company’s share was $74,106,000.
The Company’s share of the MLP and the joint venture debt was approximately $266,024,000 at December 31, 2003.
The following table sets forth a summary of the real estate owned by the MLP:
As of December 31, 2003, the occupancy rate of the properties is 99.4%.
The primary lease terms range from 20 to 25 years from their original commencement dates with rents, typically above market, which fully amortize the first mortgage debt on the properties. In addition, tenants generally have multiple renewal options, with rents, on average, below market.
Below is a listing of tenants which accounted for 2% or more of the MLP’s revenues in 2003:
The following table sets forth lease expirations for each of the next 10 years, as of December 31, 2003, assuming that none of the tenants exercise their renewal options.
The following table sets forth The Newkirk Master Limited Partnership Properties as of December 31, 2003:
(1) leasehold interest.
Hotel Pennsylvania
The Hotel Pennsylvania is located in New York City on Seventh Avenue opposite Madison Square Garden and consists of a hotel portion containing 1,000,000 square feet of hotel space with 1,700 rooms and a commercial portion containing 400,000 square feet of retail and office space.
The Hotel is dependent on tourism and was severely impacted by the events of September 11, 2001, accelerating a trend that began in the first quarter of 2001. The following table presents rental information for the Hotel:
Dry Warehouse/Industrial Properties
The Company’s dry warehouse/industrial properties consist of eight buildings in New Jersey containing approximately 2.0 million square feet. The average term of a tenant’s lease is three to five years.
The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and average annual rent per square foot at the end of each of the past five years.
(1) Excludes East Brunswick warehouse currently under development.
In November 2002, the Company entered into an agreement to ground lease its East Brunswick industrial property to Lowe’s. The Company will demolish the existing warehouse containing 326,000 square feet and Lowe’s will construct its own retail store. This lease is expected to commence in approximately 12 to 18 months.
400 North LaSalle
The 400 North LaSalle venture was formed in July 2001, to develop a 381,000 square foot, high-rise residential tower with an attached parking garage in Chicago Illinois, containing 452 apartments. Under the agreement the Company contributed 92% of the equity and is entitled to receive 85% of the profits. The development of the residential tower and garage was substantially completed and phased into service as of January 2004. As of December 31, 2003, the tower is 22.5% occupied.
ITEM 3.