ITEM 2
PROPERTIES
The following table sets forth the location, type of facility, square footage and ownership interest in each of the Company's principal facilities. The Company also leases certain additional office space throughout the United States.
__________
(1) This facility was previously owned and was leased back by the Company until 6/15/01.
(2) The British Columbia operations are in the process of being merged with Winnipeg.
(3) The Company has the option to extend by 10 years.
(4) The Company is currently in negotiations to extend the lease to 2011.
(5) This property was vacated as of 4/30/01.
(6) This property has been listed for sale.
(7) This property was dormant and not in operation at 3/31/01.
The Company believes that its facilities and equipment are generally well maintained and in good operating condition.
Leiner's active manufacturing and distribution facilities consist of approximately 1.8 million square feet of owned or leased plant and office facilities in seven locations, in three U.S. states and one Canadian Province. The Company is one of the largest manufacturers in the North American vitamin products industry and is capable of packaging over 25 billion doses each year. In April 1995, Leiner was the first major vitamin product manufacturer to be certified as being in compliance with USP's vitamin manufacturing standards, which became effective in January 1995. The Company's U.S. facilities were audited by an independent quality assurance laboratory and received the laboratory's highest categorical rating. All of the Company's U.S. manufacturing facilities also have been audited by the FDA and have been found to be in compliance with the FDA's cGMP.
Leiner has four U.S. manufacturing facilities, which are located in Garden Grove, California, Valencia, California, Wilson, North Carolina and Fort Mill, South Carolina. The primary manufacturing facilities for the Company's vitamin products and OTC pharmaceuticals are its 138,500 square foot Garden Grove plant, its 125,000 square foot Wilson plant and its 558,900 square foot Fort Mill facility. In the event of a catastrophic casualty to one of the Company's primary vitamin or OTC tableting facilities, the Company has the ability to shift production to other facilities. The Company operates 42 tableting machines in its Garden Grove, California facility, 12 tableting machines in its Fort Mill, South Carolina facility and 7 tableting machines in its Wilson, North Carolina facility. In fiscal 2001, the Company operated three packaging and distribution facilities in the U.S., which are located in Carson, California, Fort Mill, South Carolina and Largo, Florida. These facilities are equipped with a total of 32 packaging lines, and, as with tableting, products can be shifted between facilities in the event such a need arises.
In fiscal 1999, the Company established the Fort Mill, South Carolina manufacturing, packaging and distribution center. The center serves the Company's retail customers throughout the eastern United States and operated at 65% capacity in fiscal 2001. The center will employ approximately 800 employees when it becomes fully operational. The majority of these employees will be recruited from the local labor force with a smaller percentage relocating from the Company's other facilities.
Vita Health currently tablets, bottles and packages its products in a modern, newly expanded 185,000 square foot facility in Manitoba of which approximately 20,000 square feet is office space.
ITEM
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
On September 27, 1999, the Company filed a civil antitrust lawsuit (the "Antitrust Lawsuit") against certain of its raw material suppliers and other alleged co-conspirators. The complaint alleges that the defendants conspired to fix vitamin prices and allocate vitamin production volume and vitamin customers in the United States. The complaint seeks unspecified damages and injunctive relief. After the lawsuit was filed, it was consolidated, for pre-trial purposes, with other similar cases. Based on the pretrial schedule set forth by the court, the case will not be ready for trial until approximately April 2002. At the present time, management cannot predict the outcome of this lawsuit, nor the estimated damages and potential recovery, if any.
During fiscal 2001 and 2000, the Company entered into settlement agreements with several of its suppliers named in the Antitrust Lawsuit (the "Settlement Agreement"). Pursuant to the terms of the Settlement Agreement, the Company agreed to release all claims it may have against the suppliers based on the Company's purchases of various vitamins from the suppliers and to opt out of any settlements in connection with the Antitrust Lawsuit in so far as it pertains to these suppliers. In exchange for the Company's release and agreement to opt out of any settlements in connection with the Antitrust Lawsuit, the Company has been awarded settlements in the aggregate amount of approximately $24.3 million and 2.4 million in the years ended March 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively, which were offset by legal, consulting and other related expenses of approximately $4.3 million and $0.2 million, respectively.
The Amended Waiver also required that during the waiver period and concurrently with the receipt by the Company of any judgment, settlement or other proceeds or amounts, however characterized, arising from or in connection with any antitrust claims (including the Antitrust Lawsuit, with all the foregoing collectively referred to as the “Proceeds”), the Company shall make, or cause to be made, a mandatory prepayment of the loans outstanding in the amount of the Proceeds to be applied pro rata to the outstanding principal amount of all term loans, the cash collateralization of $1.6 million of letters of credit, and a corresponding reduction of each revolving loan commitment amount.
The Company is subject to other legal proceedings and claims that arise in the normal course of business. While the outcome of these proceedings and claims cannot be predicted with certainty, management does not believe the outcome of any of these matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
The Company, like other retailers, distributors and manufacturers of products that are ingested, faces a risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that, among other things, the use of its products results in injury. With respect to product liability coverage, the Company currently has an aggregate of $81 million of insurance coverage, including primary product liability and excess liability coverage with deductibles of $0.3 million per claim, subject to an annual, aggregate deductible limit of $1 million.
ITEM 4
SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001.
PART II
ITEM 5
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
There is no trading market for the Company's Common Stock. All of the outstanding shares of the Company's Common Stock are held by PLI Holdings. The Company did not pay any dividends in fiscal 2001 or fiscal 2000.
ITEM 6
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The following table presents selected historical financial data derived from the consolidated financial statements of the Company. This data should be read in conjunction with Item 7 “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”
__________
(1) During fiscal 1998, non-recurring charges relating to the Recapitalization, consisting of (x) a compensation charge incurred by the Company for the in-the-money value of existing stock options of $15.6 million which were (i) converted into an equivalent value of Equity Rights at the date of the Recapitalization, (ii) paid out in cash, or (iii) exercised for common stock (or a combination thereof), (y) $5.2 million in transaction bonuses which were paid to members of the Company's management subsequent to the Recapitalization, and (z) expenses aggregating $12.0 million incurred by Leiner Group in connection with its capital raising activities. These non-recurring charges contributed significantly to the Company's net loss of $17.4 million for fiscal 1998.
(2) "EBITDA," as presented, represents earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization and other non-cash charges, consisting of (i) the write off of deferred financing charges, net of income taxes, included as an extraordinary item in the statements of operations for fiscal 1998 and fiscal 1997, (ii) non-cash stock compensation charges, including those recorded in connection with the June 1997 Recapitalization (see Item 1 “Business-Recapitalization”), (iii) expenses related to the closure of facilities, and (iv) other non-cash charges in fiscal 1997. Please note: ratios were not calculated for periods with negative EBITDA.
EBITDA is calculated as follows (in thousands):
__________
(a) Excluding other Operational Restructuring related charges, EBITDA would have been $23.0 million for fiscal 2001.
(b) Excluding the Recapitalization related expenses, EBITDA would have been $51.8 million for fiscal 1998.
Although EBITDA (as well as related EBITDA ratios) is a non-GAAP measurement, EBITDA, EBITDA margin, the ratio of total debt to EBITDA and the ratio of EBITDA to interest expense are included because management understands that such information is considered by certain investors to be an additional basis for evaluating the Company's ability to pay interest, repay debt and make capital expenditures. EBITDA should not be considered an alternative to measures of operating performance as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, including net income as a measure of the Company's operating results and cash flows as a measure of the Company's liquidity. Because EBITDA is not calculated identically by all companies, the presentation herein may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies.
(3) Depreciation and amortization as presented here does not include the amortization of deferred financing fees. In the statement of cash flows in the consolidated financial statements, the amortization of deferred financing fees is included in depreciation and amortization.
(4)
For purposes of calculating the ratio of EBITDA to interest expense, interest expense excludes the amortization of deferred financing fees, which is included in interest expense in the statement of operations in the consolidated financial statements.
(5)
In calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings consist of income before taxes plus fixed charges. Fixed charges consist of interest expense and amortization of deferred financing fees, whether capitalized or expensed, plus one-third of rental expense under operating leases (the portion that has been deemed by the Company to be representative of an interest factor). Earnings were inadequate to cover fixed charges by $79.3 million and $15.1 million for the years ended March 31, 2001 and 1998, respectively.
ITEM
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following discussion of the Company's financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of the Company contained elsewhere in this report. The Company's fiscal year ends on March 31 of each year. References herein to a "fiscal year" refer to the Company's fiscal year ended March 31 in the calendar year indicated (e.g., references to fiscal 2001 are references to the Company's fiscal year ended March 31, 2001).
General
Current Trends. The Company believes that overall trends in the vitamin industry are the most significant trends affecting the Company's financial performance. For the 52 week period ended March 25, 2001, vitamin sales for the U.S. Mass Market decreased approximately 5.6% versus the comparable period in the prior year. For the 52 week period ended March 26, 2000, vitamin sales for the U.S. Mass Market had increased more than 7% over the prior 52 week period. According to industry sources, between 1992 and 2001, vitamin sales for the Mass Market increased at a compound annual rate of approximately 13% to $3.3 billion, as the percentage of American adults regularly using vitamins increased from 37% to 48%.
Increasing vitamin usage among the general population is linked to three major factors. First, research expenditures devoted to the positive effects of vitamin products have increased dramatically. Such research has been described in major medical journals and reported in the popular media. Second, the national trend towards improved fitness, greater self-care and preventive medicine has increased the general population's focus on consumption of nutritional products. Finally, the more favorable regulatory environment resulting from the DSHEA has generated increased new product introductions and more effective point of sale communication of the health benefits of vitamins to consumers. However, as has been the case in the past, adverse scientific research or publicity concerning the health benefits of vitamin consumption could materially impact the growth of the vitamin market.
Operational Restructuring. In fiscal 2001, the Company initiated a number of operational restructuring actions focused on eliminating operational complexities and reducing operating costs. The initiatives include workforce reductions, facility consolidation, product line simplification, and customer rationalization, a de-emphasis on research and development activities, and actions to improve supply chain management and realize working capital, customer service and operational efficiencies.
During fiscal 2001, the Company reduced its workforce in its Carson, Garden Grove and Valencia, California locations, as well as in Kalamazoo, Michigan. Severance and other costs related to such reductions totaled $5.5 million, and is being paid to the terminated employees on a weekly basis through February 2002. When added to the reduction in force related to the Acquisition the worldwide workforce has been reduced by approximately 500 full time employees.
Facility consolidations include the consolidation of the Kalamazoo, Michigan and Largo, Florida facilities into the Company’s Fort Mill, South Carolina location, the consolidation of the Vancouver, British Columbia facility into the Winnipeg, Manitoba facility, and the closure of auxiliary warehouses in Carson, Kalamazoo, Largo and Vancouver. Such consolidations are expected to be completed during the first quarter of fiscal 2002.
The following table summarizes the activities in the Company’s restructuring reserves (in millions):
In addition to the workforce reductions and facility consolidations discussed above, the Company has undertaken product line simplification and customer rationalization initiatives. In connection with its product line simplification initiative, the Company plans to discontinue certain low margin vitamin and OTC pharmaceutical product lines, as well as a health food product line at Vita Health. Under its customer rationalization initiative, as of March 31, 2001, the Company has identified 47 unprofitable or overly complex customers for discontinuation.
In connection with these initiatives, the Company recorded certain reserves and wrote-off certain other assets totaling $67.3 million. The table below summarizes these reserves and write-offs and where those charges have been reflected in the Company’s consolidated statement of operations for the period ended March 31, 2001 (in millions):
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, the Company reserved or wrote-off inventory in the amount of $52.5 million, the most significant component of which related to additional reserves of $24.9 established for slow moving or obsolete inventory, calculated based on a new demand-based estimation methodology. An additional $17.0 million of inventory was reserved and $10.6 million was written-off in connection with the Company’s product line simplification and customer rationalization initiatives and facility consolidations.
In addition, the Company established a reserve of $7.0 million for anticipated sales returns from discontinued customers or for discontinued products expected to be returned by continuing customers. The Company also recorded $3.2 million in additional reserves for estimated uncollectible accounts receivable and wrote-off $1.3 million in customer advances related to the customer rationalization initiative. Finally, the Company recorded other charges of $3.3 million primarily related to consulting expenses for its restructuring initiatives and the write-off of certain fixed assets.
The Company’s efforts to restructure its operations and rationalize its customer base will continue into fiscal 2002. In connection with those continuing efforts, the Company expects to incur during the first two quarters of fiscal 2002, additional costs of approximately $7.5 million related to legal, accounting, banking and consulting fees. These amounts will be charged to the Company’s results of operations when incurred.
Acquisition. On December 17, 1999, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Granutec, Inc. ("Granutec"), a manufacturer and distributor of private label, over-the-counter pharmaceutical drugs in the United States, and Vita Health acquired substantially all of the assets of Stanley Pharmaceuticals Ltd. ("Stanley"), a manufacturer and distributor of private label, over-the-counter pharmaceutical drugs and vitamin supplement products in Canada, both of which were subsidiaries of Novopharm Limited of Ontario, Canada ("Novopharm"). The Company also acquired certain related assets of Novopharm (collectively, the "Acquisition"). On June 29, 2000, the Company reached a final settlement agreement with Novopharm on the working capital adjustment provided for in the acquisition agreement and, as a result, Novopharm paid the Company $1.5 million. The Company recorded the final adjustments to the purchase price allocation during the second quarter of fiscal year 2001.
The components of the purchase price and the purchase price allocation are as follows (in millions):
In connection with the Acquisition and finalization of management’s integration plan, the Company recorded approximately $11.5 million for employee severance and facility closure costs. As a component of the purchase price allocation, the integration plan includes initiatives to integrate the operations of Granutec and Stanley with those of the Company, and reduce overhead, primarily through the consolidation of certain acquired manufacturing activities to existing facilities. The Company expects the majority of the integration actions to be completed in fiscal 2002.
The following table summarizes the activity in the Company’s reserves associated with the integration plan (in millions):
The following unaudited pro forma financial information presents the consolidated results of operations as if the Acquisition had occurred at the beginning of the fiscal year presented and does not purport to be indicative of the results that would have occurred had the Acquisition occurred at such date or of results which may occur in the future (in millions).
Results of Operations
The following table summarizes the Company's historical results of operations as a percentage of net sales for fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999.
Fiscal 2001 Compared to Fiscal 2000
Net sales for fiscal 2001 decreased by $50.1 million, from $662.3 million to $612.1 million, or 7.6% from fiscal 2000. This was primarily the result of an industrywide 5.6% decline in sales of vitamin products to the U.S. Food, Drug, and Mass Merchandising (FDM) market, compared to a 7% growth rate in the prior year. On a business segment basis, domestic sales were down by $66.3 million, or 10.9%, while International/Canadian sales were up by $20.5 million, or 35.8%. The decrease in U.S. sales reflects the weaker demand for the Company’s core vitamin products and continued pricing pressure in vitamin C and E products, offset slightly by increased sales in the OTC product group. The Company also experienced significant declines of approximately $50.0 million or 47% in its herbal category in the U.S. In addition, a restructuring related charge of $7.0 million was made to establish a reserve for sales returns from discontinued customers and for discontinued products expected to be returned by continuing customers. The International/Canadian sales increase was due to growth in the OTC product area primarily due to the acquisition of Stanley. International/Canadian vitamin sales remained stable between 2000 and 2001.
Gross profit margin, as a percentage of net sales for fiscal 2001 was 8.6% versus 25.2% in fiscal 2000. Gross profit decreased by $114.0 million or 68.4%, to $52.6 million in fiscal 2001 from $166.6 million in fiscal 2000. As a part of the Operational Restructuring, the Company reserved or wrote off inventory in the amount of $52.5 million, as discussed above. In addition, approximately $23.5 million of the decrease is customer and product mix related, caused by increased competition, lower vitamin prices to customers driven by the breakup of the illegal vitamin pricing cartel, and the increasing volume of lower margin OTC pharmaceutical products as a percentage of total sales. An additional $23.4 million is volume related, with the reduction in overall volume caused by the declining vitamin market. Gross profit in fiscal 2001 was impacted by the restructuring related charge of $7.0 million noted above.
Marketing, selling and distribution expenses increased by $2.5 million to $81.2 million in fiscal 2001 or 3.2% over the $78.7 million incurred in fiscal 2000. As a percentage of net sales these expenses were 13.3% and 11.9% for fiscal 2001 and 2000, respectively. The main reason for the increase was $3.6 million in additional expenses related to the integration of the Acquisition locations, which was offset by a decrease in other expenses of $1.1 million due to cost containment efforts.
General and administrative expenses increased by $9.8 million to $48.8 million in fiscal 2001 or 25.3% over the $38.9 million incurred in fiscal 2000. This substantial increase was primarily due to the Restructuring initiatives begun by the Company in fiscal 2001, as well as the additional costs of the integration of the Acquisition locations as discussed above.
For fiscal 2001, research and development expenses increased by $2.1 million over fiscal 2000, from $7.3 million to $9.4 million, primarily due to additional costs of $1.6 million to support the Company’s advanced science and product quality initiatives.
Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles increased to $5.6 million in fiscal 2001 versus $2.7 million in fiscal 2000, primarily due to the fact that the amortization of the goodwill from the Acquisition was included for a full year in fiscal 2001, compared with only four months in fiscal 2000.
Other operating income (charges) include Antitrust Lawsuit settlements of approximately $24.3 million and $2.4 million in the years ended March 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively, which were offset by legal and consulting fees and other costs of approximately $4.3 million and $0.2 million, respectively. (See Item 3