ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Executive Offices
Our U.S. corporate offices are located in Lakewood, Colorado. We currently lease approximately 200 square feet at a rate of $262 per month for our corporate offices on a month-to-month basis from a non-affiliated third party. We also have operational offices on our Caribou prospect for which we pay no rent (since we own the property).
Caribou project, Colorado, USA: Gold/Silver Exploration
Caribou Project
Calais owns or controls 129 patented claims (consolidating separate interests in the same claim as a single claim) and 105 unpatented mineral claims in a 3.5 square mile area, which comprise the Consolidated Caribou District. In general, these claims can be classified as:
·
The Calais Patented Claims, which comprise the Caribou and Cross Projects. These claims include most of the currently disturbed and proposed development property at the Cross Mine (which is an underground mine). Calais owns the mineral rights to all these claims; and
·
The Caribou Property (Upper) Claims represent the majority of the Consolidated Caribou District land holdings. Aardvark Agencies, Inc. (“AAI”) is the “nominee owner” of a portion of the claims, which comprise the Caribou Property. As “nominee owner”, AAI holds record title to the parcel, however Calais retains the right to occupy, explore, mine, develop, build, and/or re-acquire the property. AAI is controlled by Marlowe Harvey, a former officer, director and significant shareholder of the Company. Following a series of transactions between AAI, Mr. Harvey, Calais, and Mr. Hendricks, which resulted in litigation brought by Mr. Hendricks against Mr. Harvey, AAI, Mr. Hendricks and Calais entered into a mutual release and settlement agreement effective July 18, 2000. This agreement, which was modified in 2004, provides that we have the right to reacquire the claims held by AAI for a debenture (which we have already paid to AAI) and for a payment from Calais to AAI of “a cash amount equal to pay the capital gains triggered by the transfer” to Calais (which his ultimately deducted from the debenture). In March 2004, Mr. Harvey and his affiliates entered into a settlement agreement with Calais which, among other things, included a more precise definition of Calais’ right (which expires August 31, 2011, but can be extended for an additional ten years if AAI’s right to convert the debenture is extended as well) to repurchase the interest of AAI in the Caribou prospect, including the payment of Cdn$747,728 for the reacquisition, and AAI’s right to convert that debenture before it is paid. That agreement, also defined Calais’ right to borrow against, enter in and upon the mineral interests in the Caribou prospect owned by AAI, construct buildings and mines on those prospects, and remove and sell minerals from Caribou for Calais’ own account.
The unpatented mining claims are located on federal lands and are subject to federal as well as state jurisdiction, and the requirements of the U.S. General Mining Law. Patented and unpatented claims are listed in Exhibit 99.1 filed with this report.
We are engaged in the location of additional unpatented mining claims. There is no guarantee that additional federal lands will remain open to location, or that the General Mining Law will not be repealed or amended. Repeated attempts have been made in Congress over recent decades to repeal or to modify the General Mining Law.
The vast majority of exploration to date on Calais’ lands has taken place on patented claims. Under the General Mining Law, as amended, unpatented claims may only be validly located by the making of a discovery, within the meaning of that law, upon open lands within the exterior boundaries of the claims. Though mineralization has been encountered on some of the unpatented claims, there can be no guarantee that there is a valid discovery on any of those claims. The patenting of mining claims, done with relative ease during the period 1872-1920, is now very difficult, and most patent applications are either suspended or prohibited from being filed. Thus, there is no likelihood for the acquisition of a fee title to any of the unpatented lands, and unpatented claims now held are held subject to potentially adverse changes in laws and regulations governing them.
As of May 31, 2011 and 2010, we had recorded the following amounts for mineral interests and furniture, fixtures and equipment (net of depreciation and impairments) on the Caribou project:
Location of Property
The Property is approximately 35 minutes from the city of Boulder, to the town of Nederland along Colorado State Highway 119. The road access from Nederland to the Project is about 15 minutes, over 4.7 mi (7.6 km) of County Road 128. The Project has year around access. The Project site is adjacent to the county road. See Figure 2-1.
Figure 2-1
Caribou Project Location Map
Royalties, Agreements and Encumbrances
Calais’ 129 patented claims were acquired in approximately three dozen acquisitions over a period of 39 years. Calais has obtained a master title policy covering nearly all of the project properties, including properties in the permit area. The major acquisitions for patented lands within the resource area and permit area are described below. Additionally, three claims are leased from the Duane Smith Trust, also discussed below. See Exhibit 99.1.
Significant Patented Claim Acquisitions
Cross Property Acquisition - Dofflemyer Group
The Cross Property, consisting of 15-patented claims, was acquired in August 1987 by Hendricks Mining Co., from the Dofflemyer family by Warranty Deed. These claims were subsequently transferred to Calais Resources Colorado, Inc. by deed dated March 30, 1998. Twelve of theses patented claims (Cross lode, Cross No. 2, Cross mill site, Crown Point lode, Juliet lode, Mammoth lode, Protection lode, Rare Metals lode, Rare Metals mill site, Romeo lode, Syndicate lode and Tacoma lode) are located in the area of modern underground development and/or permit disturbance area.
Potosi Group Acquisition
The Potosi properties, consisting of 4-patented claims, were acquired in February 1988 by Hendricks Mining Co., from the William M. Warren and Aquarius Mining Co. by Warranty Deed. These claims were subsequently transferred to Calais Resources Colorado, Inc. by deed dated March 30, 1998. These patented claims (Alpine lode, Gold Coin lode, Potosi lode, and Worcester lode) are in located in the area of resource potential.
Wolcott Group Acquisition
The Wolcott properties, consisting of 4-patented claims, were acquired in February 1988 by Hendricks Mining Co., from the Wolcott family by Warranty Deed. These claims were subsequently transferred to Calais Resources Colorado, Inc. by deed dated April 8, 1998. These patented claims (5/8 interest Garfield lode, Ready Cash lode, Silver Brick lode, and Defiance lode) are located near the area of resource potential. Only the Garfield lode touches the area of resource potential.
Tallman Group
The Tall properties, consisting of 4 patented claims, were acquired in November 1987 by Hendricks Mining Co., from the Tallman family by Warranty Deed. These claims were subsequently transferred to Calais Resources Colorado, Inc. by deed dated April 8, 1998. Of these patented claims (3/8 interest Garfield lode, Ponderosa lode, Monticello lode and Chief lode) only the Garfield lode touches the resource area.
Aardvark Patented Claim Acquisitions
New York Lode and Millsite; the Brazilian Lode and Millsite
The New York lode and mill site were acquired by the Company from William M. Warren and Richard A. Sigismond by Warranty Deed in October 1997 as part of a larger acquisition. Only the New York mill site claim is within the area of resource potential and the permit area. The Brazilian lode and Brazilian mill site claims were acquired by Aardvark Agencies, Inc. (“AAI”) by Sheriff’s deed (after assignment of the Certificate of Purchase from LNRS, LLC, the successors in title by Sheriff’s sale to the interest of Nederland Mines, Inc.) on December 17, 1998. The Brazilian lode claim is in the area of resource potential and the Brazilian mill site claim is within the permit area (a small portion is in the area of resource potential).
The New York mill site, Brazilian lode and Brazilian mill site patented claims were transferred (together with others, totaling 78 properties) to AAI as part of a larger financing transaction involving AAI. An agreement executed in 1999 assigned a 100% interest in the right to acquire 35 claims from third parties to AAI for $0.5 million. An agreement executed in 2000 assigned a 100% interest in an additional 43 claims to AAI for $3.5 million ($1.2 million cash and $2.3 million note). Both transfers were made subject to a recorded right to redeem and re-acquire held by the Company and further subject to a note and deed of trust in the amount of $2.3 million, held by the Company. The Company has 10-years to redeem or re-acquire the properties. As discussed above, in March 2004, Mr. Harvey and his affiliates entered into a settlement agreement with Calais which, among other things, included a more precise definition of Calais’ right (which expires August 31, 2011, but can be extended for an additional ten years if AAI’s right to convert the debenture is extended as well) to repurchase the interest of AAI in the Caribou prospect, including the payment of Cdn$747,728 for the reacquisition, and AAI’s right to convert that debenture before it is paid. AAI is delinquent on the $2.3 million note to the Company. No royalties were assigned or transferred to AAI. The settlement agreement had the effect of cancelling the $2.3 million note.
In August 2003, AAI and the Company entered into deeds of trust against the Caribou property in connection with a loan for $4.5 million (the “Broadway Loan”) from Broadway Mortgage Corporation, Michael E. Haws, Kemp Hanley, R. Britton Colbert, Accounts Plus, Inc. and Riviera Holdings, LLC. The Broadway Loan was acquired after a series of assignments by Brigus Gold Corp. as part of the Company’s debt restructuring described below.
Duane Smith Trust Lease
The Duane Smith Trust has leased 3-patented claims to Hendricks Mining Co. The claims are the Laramie County lode, Homestead lode and Gilpin County lode, totaling 9.77ac (3.95ha). Portions of the three claims are part of the permit area. Portions of the Smith properties are traversed by the historical mine access road, this road pre-dates the location and patent of the Smith claims.
The Smith property was originally leased by Calais’ predecessors in August 1987. The Smith property was re-leased to Calais in 2003 for a period of 15-years, and may be extended for three additional five-year periods. The lease
specifically grants to the lessee the right to haul, process, mine, transport, store, mill, treat, or transport on or across the Leased Premises supplies, ore, rock, minerals, waste, concentrates or other material from adjacent or nearby properties worked or owned by lessee and/or its assigns. These rights shall be known as the “Cross Mining Rights”. Each party shall have the right to utilize existing, historical access roads, crossing the properties for all purposes.
The lease provides for a 3.5% NSR royalty on all minerals, ores, metals, concentrates, or other materials extracted and shipped from the Leased Premises. As no mining has or is scheduled to occur on these claims, and all activities involve historical access, no production royalties are incurred. The lease specifies for a minimum advance royalty of $3,000/yr. for years one through five, $4,000/yr. for years six through ten, $5,000/yr. for years 11 through 15. The first 5-year lease extension is $7,500/yr. and then escalated thereafter. The minimum advance royalty may be offset with paid production royalties. The Company is responsible for all property and personal taxes on the leased property. Additionally, any severance or production taxes, levied on the leased claims, are apportioned. We are obligated to maintain liability insurance, accidental injury or death insurance and workman’s compensation insurance for the term of the lease. These leased claims are encumbered by the July 2003 Deed of Trust from Calais for the benefit of Broadway Mortgage Company described above.
Congo Chief Acquisition
On October 26, 2005, we acquired the 20-acre Congo Chief patented lode mining claim from the Estate of John W. Snyder for a price of $280,000. This large, patented lode claim was in the immediate vicinity of other claims held by us and by AAI. We acquired the claim with the assistance MFPI Partners, LLC, which provided funding for the acquisition, and which holds a first deed of trust on the subject property in the amount of $258,956. This note was originally payable on February 21, 2006, subject to any applicable extensions. We defaulted on the note and negotiated with MFPI Partners and were unable to reach a formal resolution to the default. In February 2010 this note was acquired by Brigus Gold as part of our debt restructure discussed further below.
Royalties
Calais Patented Claims
All of the Patented Claims carry a 2% NSR royalty expiring no earlier than January 27, 2018. The 2% royalty expires at later dates as to other claims among the 129 patented claims and 105 unpatented claims, which royalty is also subject to the repurchase agreement. The Company has negotiated with the main royalty holder regarding an extension of the royalty agreements. The January 1993 agreement allows repurchasing the 2% NSR royalty at any time during the term for $1.5 million. The royalties are payable to Thomas S. Hendricks, the estate of Marjorie J. Hendricks and John R. Henderson.
The New York mill site claim carries a 2% NSR until April 2018. The April 1998 document allows repurchasing 1% of the 2% NSR royalty at any time during the term for $0.75 million. The royalties are payable to Thomas S. Hendricks, the Estate of Marjorie J. Hendricks and John R. Henderson.
Additionally, several of the mineral interests acquired by us or AAI are subject to royalty reservations in favor of prior owners of those interests, some of which are discussed above. A total of nine of the patented mining claims bear net smelter return royalties in amounts varying from 1.325% to 3.5% of net smelter returns. The terms of these royalties vary from perpetual to a lifetime interest only.
An additional royalty interest may affect 15 claims in the vicinity of the Cross Mine. A royalty buy down which occurred in the 1980’s reduced the applicability of this 5% royalty to periods when the gold price was above $800 per ounce. The price of gold has recently risen above this level for the first time since the buy down occurred. On April 4, 2008, this royalty was renegotiated with the holder, Tusco Incorporated. The new terms of the royalty agreement allow for a complete purchase of the royalty from Tusco for $150,000 payable at any time through April 4, 2028 (or three years after the death of the president of Tusco). As consideration for the execution of the agreement, we issued 250,000 common shares of our stock to Tusco. An additional payment of $1,500 per month will be made to Tusco during the term of this agreement or, if shorter, the lifetime of the president of Tusco.
The payment of royalties upon production, if it occurs, can negatively affect the economics of a prospective mining operation, and may hinder our ability to finance such operations. As no production decision has been reached as to Calais’ mineral interests at Caribou, the impact of existing royalty agreements upon our ability to develop any mineralization discovered has not been determined.
The Duffy Note
On August 1, 2005, the Company issued a note (the “Duffy Note”) payable to a group of shareholders, Duane A. Duffy, Glenn E. Duffy, Luke Garvey and James Ober, (collectively, the “Duffy Group”), for $807,650, in exchange for $681,000 originally infused into the Company as Share Capital, and interest accrued from the date of each infusion totaling $126,650. The Duffy Note was secured by a trust deed on the majority of the patented properties titled in the Company. By October 31, 2005, the Company was in default. Since then, the note was renegotiated and restructured several times until February 2010, when the principal and accrued interest totaled approximately $1.1 million.
In March 2010, the Duffy Note was acquired by Brigus Gold Corp. as part of the Company’s debt restructure as described below.
Defaults
Prior to February 1, 2010, Calais was in default on approximately $10.6 million of indebtedness based on the following:
Brigus Gold (Apollo Gold) Transaction
On December 9, 2009, Apollo Gold Corporation (now Brigus Gold Corp., “Brigus”) entered into a letter of intent (the “New LOI”) with the Company and Elkhorn Goldfields LLC (“Elkhorn Goldfields”) pursuant to which Elkhorn Goldfields agreed to purchase all the outstanding capital stock in Montana Tunnels Mining, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Brigus (“Montana Tunnels”). Brigus agreed to sell all of the capital stock of Montana Tunnels in exchange for (i) promissory notes held by Elkhorn Goldfields and certain investors in Elkhorn Goldfields or its affiliates (the “Lenders”) from Calais and AAI with an outstanding balance of approximately $7,700,000 relating to the Broadway Loan (the “Original Notes”), (ii) Elkhorn’s and the Lenders’ rights with respect to an additional amount of approximately $1.45 million loaned to Calais (the “Additional Caribou Loan”) and (iii) a promissory note held by Elkhorn Goldfields and the Lenders from Calais with an outstanding balance of approximately $380,000 (the “Congo Chief Note” and, together with the Original Notes and the Additional Caribou Loan, the “Notes”). The Original Notes and the Congo Chief Note are secured by certain deeds of trust registered against the Caribou property.
On February 1, 2010, Brigus, Elkhorn Goldfields and Calais entered into a definitive purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”). Pursuant to terms of the Purchase Agreement, Brigus sold all of the capital stock of Montana Tunnels in exchange for the Notes. The Elkhorn Goldfields’ and the Lenders’ security interests in the properties against which the Original Notes and the Congo Chief Note are secured were transferred to Brigus as part of the transaction. The Original Notes matured on July 31, 2005 (although they were never repaid) and bear interest at the rate of 12.9% per annum. The Congo Chief Note matured on February 21, 2006 (although it was never repaid) and bears interest at the rate of 12% per annum or a default rate of 18% per annum. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, Brigus agreed to forebear on the Original Notes and the Congo Chief Note until February 1, 2011. In connection with the Purchase Agreement, Calais agreed to execute and deliver a promissory note to Brigus
evidencing the Additional Caribou Loan (the “Additional Unsecured Note”). The Additional Unsecured Note bears interest at the rate of eight percent per annum and had an initial maturity date of February 1, 2011.
On March 12, 2010, Brigus, Calais, and the Duffy Group entered into a purchase agreement (the “Duffy Purchase Agreement”) pursuant to which Brigus agreed, subject to the terms and conditions contained in the Duffy Purchase Agreement, to issue 1,592,733 common shares to the Duffy Group in exchange for the assignment of their rights, title and interest in and to, among other things, the Duffy Note.
The Duffy Group’s security interests in the property against which the Duffy Note is secured were transferred to Brigus as part of the transaction. Pursuant to the terms of the Duffy Purchase Agreement, Calais agreed to issue 10,306,790 common shares to the Duffy Group in payment of $435,347 of the outstanding balance of principal and accrued interest and fees of the Duffy Note (the “Calais Share Issuance”). Immediately following the Calais Share Issuance, the outstanding balance of the Duffy Note (including accrued interest thereon) was $653,021.
The Duffy Note matured on December 31, 2009 and was not repaid. On January 2, 2010, the Duffy Group called the Duffy Note due and payable and provided notice to Calais of the payment default on the Duffy Note. In accordance with the terms of the Duffy Note, following an uncured default on the Duffy Note, the Duffy Note bears interest at the rate of 24%. Pursuant to the Duffy Purchase Agreement, Brigus agreed to forebear from enforcing its right to collect principal and interest outstanding under the Duffy Note until March 12, 2011 and reduce the interest rate on the Duffy Note during that period to 8%. In addition to the foregoing provision, the Duffy Purchase Agreement includes customary representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities for transactions of this type.
Pursuant to a Forbearance Agreement dated January 15, 2011, Brigus extended the forbearance period of the Notes and the Duffy Note from February 1, 2011, to the earlier of June 30, 2011 or the occurrence of certain events, including insolvency or bankruptcy of the Calais, the borrower. During this extended forbearance period, the Notes will accrue interest at 8% per annum. In connection with the Forbearance Agreement, Calais agreed that it would not undertake certain actions, including the issuance of stock, without Brigus’ prior approval. Although, the Company has issued stock without obtaining formal written approval from Brigus, the Company has kept Brigus apprised of its activities.
In an Extension Agreement dated June 8, 2011, Brigus agreed to extend the forbearance period to October 31, 2011 in exchange for a cash payment of $1,000,000. The funds were applied to accrued but unpaid interest on the Notes.
Shareholder Payable
In connection with an Exploration Agreement dated December 31, 2008 (the “Exploration Agreement”) between the Company and DRDMJ, LLC, a company owned and controlled by R. David Russell, on December 20, 2008, the Company issued a one-year note payable to R. David Russell, who at the time was a shareholder of the Company and is currently the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, in the amount of $405,410 in consideration for cash of approximately $300,000. The cash was to be used for development of the Cross Mine and processing ore at the Gold Hill mill. In August 2009 the Company defaulted on its agreement with Mr. Russell and issued 5,067,650 shares of our common stock valued at $861,501 as consideration for our default under the terms of the agreement which was dissolved. We have recorded additional expense of $456,090 in connection with this default.
Geology and Mineralization
This portion of Colorado is underlain by Precambrian basement rocks comprising the North American Craton, which has been intruded by Late Cretaceous igneous units. The basement rocks experienced several periods of Precambrian deformation ranging from deep, ductile to more shallow brittle features. Deeply rooted structural zones within the Precambrian rocks are linked to the development of the much younger Colorado Mineral Belt (CMB). This belt consists of a northeast-southwest regional trend of mineralization and ore deposits that is approximately 250mi (402km) long and 80mi (129km) wide.
The Project lies near the northeast limit of the CMB. It is hosted within the Precambrian Idaho Springs Gneiss and the Late Cretaceous Caribou Monzonite.
The origin of mineralization at the Project has been explained by two different models. These both involve hydrothermal processes but differ as to whether the deposit was formed within a predominantly mesothermal or epithermal environment.
Mineralization is hosted within several distinct veins striking both east-west and north-northeast. Individual veins range in width from inches to tens of feet and consist of open space fill zones containing quartz and disseminated sulfides flanked by mineralized and non-mineralized alteration zones. Overall, the zone of mineralization and alteration has an average width of 5ft (1.5m). Altered host rocks within and adjacent to veins show more limited sulfide mineralization due to a lesser amount of rock fracturing and open space fill.
Precious metals grades in the Project typically run 0.05-1.0oz/st-Au (1.7-34.3g/t-Au) and 0.2-30.0oz/st-Ag (6.8-1,029g/t-Ag). Weathering has partially oxidized sulfide minerals to all depths tested to date. The veins are distributed within two main sets, those that strike predominately east-west and those striking north-northeast. A large number of these veins have been outlined throughout the modern exploration history of the Project. The major zones of mineralization and their location within the Consolidated Caribou areas are summarized in Table 2-1.
Table 2-1: Major Zones of Mineralization
The dominant controls on gold, silver, lead and zinc mineralization at the project are structural channeling along dilatational fault and vein planes within an environment chemically favorable for the precipitation of electrum and base metal sulfides. Deep-seated regional structures appear to have been active at the time of mineralization and have played a vital role in the structural preparation of the host rocks and channeling of the mineralizing fluids. The fluids and their contained metals are believed to have been derived either from a deeper magmatic source rock or from deep metamorphic processes associated with the Laramide Orogeny.
Location of Mineralization
The gold and silver-bearing veins of the project are located within the Grand Island Mining District at the northern limit of the Colorado Mineral Belt. Mineralization is hosted within several distinct veins striking both east-west and north-northeast. The main vein outcroppings are located above Coon Track Creek in and around Caribou Hill. Mineralization tested to date is confined to quartz/sulfide veins hosted with Precambrian Idaho Springs Gneiss and the Tertiary Caribou Monzonite.
A large number of gold-silver veins have been outlined throughout the modern exploration history of the project.
Future Payments
The table below summarizes our future obligations related to the prospect area. Failure to make the minimum payments as presented below might result in the loss of the mining claims, royalty interests, or leases underlying the prospect area.
Environmental Liabilities and Permitting
The Project holds an active mine permit under the Colorado Division of Reclamation Mining and Safety (CDRMS) Permit M1977410, issued Nov 3, 1980. This permit, which limits ore extraction to 70,000stpy, approximately 200stpd (63,500tpy) and land disturbances to less than 2 ac (0.8 ha) total. Current mine disturbance is 2.0ac (0.8ha). A $15,400 bond is held by CDRMS for final reclamation of the property.
Required Permits and Status
The mine can currently produce run of mine (RoM) ore for shipment to a mill. The mine activities are a legal nonconforming use under the Boulder County Land Use Code. Additionally, Calais holds the following permits:
·
Explosives permit No. 5-CO-013-33-1H-00625
·
Water Quality NPDES permit CO-00322751;
·
MSHA ID 0502730;
·
Colorado Air Pollution Emissions Notice (APEN) Permit No. 09BO0439F;
·
Stormwater Plan Permit No. COR040242; and
·
County building and grading permits.
We have announced plans to expand our operations at the Cross Mine. Proposed activities include the development of a new mine access and expanded underground mine workings; construction and operation of an on-site surface mill; construction of an ore storage building; development of a new access and safety road connecting two currently disconnected mine areas; implementation of site drainage controls, and other site improvements. An amendment to the existing CDMRS permit is required for these expansion activities, as well as an increase in the posted reclamation bond. The permit disturbance will be increased to 9.35ac (3.78ha). The current CDRMS permit surface disturbance may be expanded to a maximum of less than 10ac (4ha). RoM production greater than 70,000stpy (63,500tpy) or surface disturbance of 10 ac (4ha) or more acres requires Calais to obtain a new permit. Along with the amendment to the mine permit, the proposed expansion activities require a Special Use Review under the Boulder County Land Use Code. A Special Use Review Application was submitted in April 2008 and approved in September 2008. Management believes the proposed mine expansion can meet the applicable criteria of the County Land Use Code; however, additional county building permits, county grading permits, and amendments to existing stormwater permits, NPDES permits, and APEN permits may be required following approval of the expansion plans.
Compliance Evaluation
Management believes the Cross Mine complies with all applicable state and federal regulations as well as contemporaneous reclamation of permitted disturbed areas and surrounding historic mining disturbances.
Seasonality
The surface exploration season begins in early May and continues through late November. Underground work can continue year around.
Surface Rights
Most of the claims which constitute the project property are patented private property titled in Calais, or Aardvark subject to Calais’ operational and re-acquisition rights.
Power Supply
Electrical power to the mine is furnished by the Public Service Company Colorado via a 25kV, 3MW, 3-phase AC overhead line from Nederland. Current power delivery at the site is three phase 480V, 300kVA capacity.
Water Supply
Potable water is provided by a 275ft (84m) deep well drilled in front of the shop building. Calais also owns a one-eighth share of the historic Farmer’s Ditch Company. The water is adjudicated to the Caribou Mine portion of the project under a plan for augmentation approved by the Division 1 Water Court, and usable under the terms of that decree. Calais also has other water rights available for lease. The portal discharges a small amount, which by Colorado law is considered to be an unregulated use of water unless it is put to beneficial use in which case, a water right must be obtained.
Buildings & Ancillary Facilities
There are several buildings located on the property. At the Cross Mine portal, a shop building incorporates an office, small warehouse, a one bay repair shop and a small mine dry housing safety equipment. A large warehouse building is located near the portal, which provides storage for drill core, the main mine air compressor and various larger mining supplies. At the Caribou site there is a large 2-story structure housing a shop, offices, dry and parts storage. At the Comstock site, there is a hoist building and a large metal warehouse. There is also a headframe at the Comstock mine. These buildings are in good condition. Two small cabins are also located nearby but these buildings are currently not in use.
Tailings Storage Area
There are no tailings on the mine property and the Company has no current plans to process any potential mineral reserves on site until the proper permits are in place.
Waste Disposal Area
Most of the underground development waste rock has been used to create valley fill platforms, which provide level surface for the mine facilities. There are no specific mine waste dumps located on the mine property - Caribou does have a large waste rock area.
Since the mine claims are located on private property and the topography is favorable, continued valley fill waste can be used to accommodate future underground development material allowing sufficient buffer zones to nearby drainages. The recently revised Boulder County permit allows the storage of the waste rock on the site.
History
Ownership
The Project property has a 135-year history of ownership. The mine was first discovered and developed by C.M. Carol in about 1876 during the silver boom at the nearby Caribou Mine and was reported to have been worked until about 1886.
In 1890, George Teal, a prominent Colorado mining man, hired Ernest LeNeve Forester, to reopen the mine. This was designed to be a test-mining program over a two-month period to evaluate the potential profitability. At this time, the property consisted of one patented claim, the Cross Survey #518 (Foster and Carrol 1890).
The next period of mine ownership began in 1918 when Teal partnered with Todd Dofflemyer, purchased the property and founded the Cross Gold Mining Company. By 1937, the property included three patented claims, three unpatented claims and one mill site claim (Teal 1937). By 1939, the property had grown to include 11-patented claims, two unpatented claims and two mill site claims (Burlingame 1939). A reported disagreement between Teal and Dofflemyer forced the closure of the mine in late 1939.
The mine remained inactive and flooded until 1974 when Thomas Hendricks obtained a long-term mining lease from the Dofflemyer family, which included a 10% NSR. Hendricks then entered a joint venture agreement with Columbine Minerals of Denver Co. who funded the dewatering and rehabilitation of the mine (Hendricks 1998).
In 1983, Hendricks entered into a joint venture agreement with Power Petroleum, a Canadian registered company, but could not re-open operations due to the prohibitively high Dofflemyer royalty. Hendricks and Power Petroleum, therefore, chose to place the mine on care and maintenance. The Project remained on care and maintenance until 1986 when Hendricks entered into joint venture agreement with East West Minerals of Sidney, Australia.
During the East West partnership, the Dofflemyer family agreed to sell their ownership and their 10% NSR for $750,000. All of these claims were then subject to a 5% NSR royalty, if the price of gold were to exceed $800/oz-Au and payable to Tusco (Barrett and Schuiling 1988).
By May of 1989, East West Minerals had lost a significant investment in an unrelated property and was forced to withdraw from the joint venture. Additionally, Power Petroleum’s interest was purchased for $200,000 and the Columbine Minerals 5% NSR was purchased for $122,000. Once East West pulled out Hendricks purchased their entire interest in the Project.
Over the next several years Hendricks’s partnered with several others and focused primarily on continued exploration and resource development. By 1997, Hendricks entered an option agreement with Calais for an earned ownership of the project, and in 1998, Calais completed its full acquisition of the Project.
Past Exploration and Development
Because of working capital shortages, we performed limited exploration work on the Caribou project during the fiscal years ended May 31, 2011 and 2010. The following table sets forth the amounts spent by the Company on exploration activities on the Caribou property during those fiscal years:
Cross Project
The Cross Project has experienced three major phases of underground development followed by an extended period of exploration drilling.
The first phase occurred during the initial discovery and subsequent mine development from about 1876 to 1886. The mine development during this period is described as a shaft 140ft (43m) deep with sublevels at -50ft (15m) and -100ft (30m) all located within the Cross Vein. The -100ft (30m) level was connected to surface by a 200ft (61m) cross cut. The ore recovered during this mining phase is believed to have been toll processed at a nearby stamp mill, which serviced several other small mines active in the area.
A second major phase of mine development occurred from 1933 to 1939 under the ownership of the Cross Gold Mining Company. During this period, development included an 850ft (259m) crosscut, a winze 235ft (72m) long and development on the -75ft (23m) level, the -150ft (46m) level and the -225ft (69m) level. The Cross Gold Mining Company had developed within the Cross, Crown Point and Rare Metals Veins and mentioned underground exploration to intersect the Romeo Vein. At this time, all mine work had focused mainly on ore development and very little actual mining had been conducted. No mill existed on the site and development ore was shipped to the ASARCO smelter in Leadville, Colorado.
The third era began in June of 1973 and continued to 1983. This work was focused primarily on mining of known veins as well as the development of newly discovered veins. Several new veins were developed including the East and West Romeo Veins where much of the production was focused. Ore was trucked to the former Allied Flourspar Mill in Boulder Co. that had been retrofitted to produce a flotation concentrate. The precious metal concentrate was shipped to the smelters of Cominco at Trail B.C, and ASARCO smelters in East Helena, Montana and El Paso Texas. Burdened by a 15% NSR and declining gold prices, mining was suspended in 1986.
In 1983 a new phase of exploration work began which included extensive underground sampling and drilling. The drilling was conducted both underground and on surface. The underground targets were the deeper and lateral extensions of the known veins and the surface targets were down dip projections of outcrop exposures and lateral continuations of known veins.
In 1988, an underground development program was begun on the newly discovered Apache Vein. A cross cut was driven on the portal level northwest from the western end of the Rare Metals vein for 100ft (30m) where it intersected the Apache Vein. Drifting on the Apache vein continued to the west for approximately 150ft (46m). Within this distance three raises and one sublevel were also driven. In 1993, the underground drifting and sampling program was reinitiated along the Apache and North Apache Veins at the portal level. Approximately 800ft (244m) of drifts, raises and sublevels were completed. This further expanded the known mineralization along the Apache Vein and confirmed the width and grade of the North Apache Vein.
Between late 1982 and 1998 a total of 116 drillholes were completed totaling 62,384ft (19,015m). This entire drill core remains on site.
Currently, the Cross Project has been developed on four main levels and ten additional sub-levels. The primary underground access is from a portal, which services a winze accessing all the lower levels. All levels are outfitted by rail track. The first level at the winze is the 9,693ft (2,954m) elevation and daylights to the portal. This level has approximately 2,700ft (823m) of drifting which access the Rare Metals, Cross, Crown Point, West Romeo, Apache and North Apache Veins. The second level at the winze is the 9,637ft (2,937m) elevation. This level has approximately 1,150ft (350m) of drifting which accesses the Rare Metals, North Rare Metals, Cross, Crown Point and West Romeo Veins. The third level at the winze is the 9,575ft (2,918m) elevation. The level has approximately 750ft (229m) of development drifting which accesses the Rare Metals, Cross, Crown Point and West Romeo Veins. The fourth level at the winze is the 9,509ft (2,898m) elevation. This level has approximately 740ft (226m) of drifting which accesses the Rare Metals, Cross, Crown Point, East Romeo and Hopewell Veins. All total there are currently 5,340ft (1,628m) of drift development, approximately 52 raises and at least 12 stopes. The underground workings were surveyed and well documented during 1988 and this information was carefully drafted on 1:20 scale level plans. The underground was last accessible during the 1990 drilling program. By 1993 it was flooded to the portal level as it remains today.
Caribou Project
Between 1980 and 1984 a new surface facility was constructed at the portal of the Idaho Tunnel. The Idaho Tunnel, which is the 500ft (152m)-level of the Caribou was re-opened and re-equipped over a 4,000ft (1,219m) length to the Caribou shaft. Included in this installation was a 4.16kV underground distribution system, including 2 substations.
The Caribou shaft was dewatered and rebuilt to the 1,230ft (375m)-level. Core drilling occurred on the 500ft (152m)-level and the 1,230ft (375m)-level. The Company also performed geologic mapping and sampling during this time. Two tunnels were also driven on 500ft (152m)-level, one to crosscut the North Poorman vein and the other to crosscut the Golconda vein. However, development to the Golconda vein ended approximately 85ft (26m) from the vein.
Historic Production
Cross Mine
Historic production from the Cross Mine (which is an underground mine) has occurred during two development/mining phases. During the mid to late 1930s the Cross Mine experienced a sustained period of mainly development work. At this time, the main crosscut, winze and four levels of drifting were completed. A minor amount of stoping is noted in the literature but there are no records of actual production. The historical records note the lack of a mill on site however, no reference of toll milling from nearby facilities is indicated.
During the period of 1973 to 1990 the Cross Mine was reopened and retrofit for small scale production. The earliest production occurred in 1976 the when mine was producing about 10stpd (9tpd), by 1980 a production rate of 80stpd (73tpd) had been achieved and the mine employed 11 workers. The ore was being trucked to the former Allied Flourspar Mill in Boulder Co., which had been retrofit to produce a flotation concentrate. The precious metal concentrate was shipped to the smelters of Cominco at Trail, B.C., and ASARCO smelters in East Helena, Montana and El Paso Texas.
This production was primarily from within the Cross, Crown Point, East Romeo, West Romeo, Juliet and Rare Metals Veins. Hendricks Mining Co. (1991) reports that total production between 1977 and 1986 was in the order of 27,000st (24,500t). During that period, the mine is reported to have produced 5,000oz of gold, 125,000oz of silver and several hundred thousand pounds of lead and zinc (Barrett and Schuiling 1988). Burdened by a 15% NSR and gold prices which had declined from $600/oz to $400/oz by 1983, the mining was suspended.
Caribou Mine
Historic production at the Caribou Mine (which is an underground mine) commenced in 1869 and continued uninterrupted until the War Closure Act of 1940. Operations resumed in 1945 and continued until 1955 when the owner closed the mine. Concentrate was shipped to the Caribou Consolidated smelter in Nederland until 1919, when the smelter burned down. Subsequent production was shipped to the ASARCO smelter in Leadville, Colorado. Over the history of operations, the Caribou Mine veins produced 20Moz of silver, and a substantial amount of gold. A total of 31 veins were mined.
Exploration Programs
Exploration work at the Project has consisted primarily of a series of development drifts and raises, surface and underground geologic mapping, rock chip and continuous channel sampling and diamond core drilling programs from surface and underground over a period of many years.
These exploration programs mapped, sampled and diamond core drilled extensions to all known veins, discovered several new veins and indicated several areas of anomalous mineralization. A total of 181 drillholes totaling 149,102ft (45,446m) were completed over ten years by seven different drill contractors. The exploration work described above resulted in the delineation of anomalous gold mineralization located within at least 14 veins, each of which average 3ft (1m) in true thickness along 300ft (91m) of strike length and 350ft (107m) of down dip extent.
Mineralogical Test Program
The Company had a metallurgical test program completed on the project. The testwork included sample compositing, composite characterization, Bond’s ball millwork index determination, flotation tests, thickening and filtration studies. The objectives of the metallurgical study were; (1) to determine if a bulk-sulfide concentrate should be produced or two separate concentrates, namely lead and zinc concentrate, should be produced, and (2) generate data for sizing major equipment for the optimum flowsheet. This work yielded the following results:
·
The composite sample prepared from the four individual samples, assayed 17.3g/t Au, 315g/t Ag, 0.18% Cu, 1.20% Pb and 1.16% Zn;
·
The sample had a Bond’s ball mill work index of 15.29;
·
Both bulk-sulfide flotation and sequential lead and zinc flotation schemes were evaluated. The bulk-sulfide flotation was determined to be best for maximizing precious metals recoveries;
·
Several process variables were evaluated for the bulk-sulfide flotation scheme. They included primary grind, pH, supplementary collectors and frothers and cleaner flotation. The optimum process conditions were determined to be a primary grind of P80 of 100 mesh or finer, pH of 9 to 10 and reagent suite of potassium amyl xanthate and methyl isobutyl carbonyl. Cleaner flotation resulted in significant loss of precious metals to the cleaner tailing;
·
The rougher bulk-sulfide flotation will recover approximately 11% of the weight and ±90% of gold and ±85% of silver values; and
·
Thickening and filtration tests were performed on both flotation concentrate and tailings to size thickeners and filters. The tailings can be used for backfilling the mine.
Resource Estimation
The Caribou project is without known resources or reserves and the Company’s activities are exploratory in nature. There are no assurances that the Company will identify any economically viable mineral deposits on the Caribou project.
Exploration Programs
The mine is on “care and maintenance” until sufficient capital funding is obtained to initiate our exploration programs and potential restart of operations at the Cross Mine. The project has remained on “care and maintenance” through the date of this report.
Manhattan Prospect; Nevada, USA: Gold Exploration
Property Description and Location
The property is located in the southern portion of the Toquima Mountains approximately one mile east of the town of Manhattan, Nye County, Nevada, as shown in Figure 2-2.
Figure 2-2
Manhattan Project Location Map
Property Ownership
In December 1994, we paid Marlowe Harvey $1,176,000 for a 51% interest in various mineral interests known as the Manhattan prospect. We later discovered that Mr. Harvey did not own any part of the record title to any patented and unpatented claims which were a part of the Manhattan prospect. We are attempting to determine title to these the joint venture interests, to acquire other of the joint venture interests, to take steps to cure title to the Manhattan prospect, and to determine whether Mr. Harvey’s claimed royalty interest exists, if it is applicable, and to quantify it. To this end, beginning in October 2003 with an updated review in February 2008, we received title information relating to these prospects. It has been determined that a significant number of the original unpatented claim position was lost when the owner, claiming a default, vended title to third parties. 42 of the former Anthony Selig claims were re-located in the name of White Caps Mines, Inc., an entity owned or controlled by Mr. Harvey, and we have since acquired record title to the re-located claims by deed.
On March 8, 2004, we entered into an agreement (the “Harvey Settlement”) with Marlowe Harvey and his related entities by which Mr. Harvey and his related entities agreed to assign their interests in the Manhattan prospect to Calais and agreed to convey to Calais (not later than December 31, 2005) the entire right, title and interest in the Manhattan prospect from all parties (“marketable title”). We agreed to pay one of Mr. Harvey’s related entities 250,000 shares of Calais restricted stock upon receipt of marketable title. We agreed to undertake certain drilling obligations after receiving good title, and to issue 2,500,000 shares of common stock (or if greater a number of shares equal to 5% of the outstanding common shares on a fully-diluted basis) to Argus Resources, Inc. (“Argus”),
one of Mr. Harvey’s related entities, upon identification of gold or gold equivalent mineral resources (as determined in accordance with Canadian standards) exceeding 2,000,000 ounces (or a proportionate number of shares if placed into production prior to identification of mineral resources exceeding 2,000,000 ounces). To our knowledge, Mr. Harvey has not attempted the curative measures necessary to provide marketable title to the mineral interests to us and, even if he commences this work, we cannot offer any assurance that he will be able to do so. We are continuing our own efforts to pursue curative action with the intent of commencing active exploration of the properties beyond mapping and surface reconnaissance.
Based on a preliminary review of this information and assignments that we received in July 2004 from Mr. and Mrs. Harvey and certain affiliated companies as a part of the Harvey Settlement (which assignments Calais has recorded in the Nye County, Nevada records), it appears that the record ownership of the various prospects is as follows:
·
The 28 patented mining claims appear to be owned by Calais (which received assignment of these claims from Argus Resources, Inc. in July 2004) as to a 60% undivided interest, and by NMMI as to a 40% undivided interest;
·
42 unpatented mining claims appear to be owned by Calais (which received assignment of these claims from White Cap Mines, Inc. (owned by Mr. Harvey) in July 2004);
·
56 unpatented mining claims appear to be owned by an individual named Anthony Selig or entities associated with Mr. Selig (the “Selig Claims”); and
·
The remaining claims appear to be owned by Calais or by Calais and NMMI in the 60-40 ratio described above for the patented claims (the “Argus Unpatented Claims”). Our ownership of these claims was received by a July 2004 assignment from Argus Resources.
Mr. Selig has denied any obligation to convey any portion of the claims directly to us, but, has admitted an obligation to convey his interest in claims listed in a 1997 agreement between Selig and NMMI to NMMI. Selig is fully aware of the outcome of the Calais/NMMI litigation, and he and his counsel have indicated a willingness to tender the NMMI deed to the District Court in and for Nye County if properly directed to do so. We believe that the settlement of the NMMI litigation reached in September 2000 (the “2000 Settlement Agreement”) results in NMMI being obligated to convey its interests in the prospects to Calais, subject to the terms of the settlement, including payment of royalties to NMMI from production. These claims would also be subject to the Manhattan Project Joint Venture (“MPJV”) as discussed below. We are currently unable to locate any person with authority to act for NMMI; management is evaluating the possible invocation of the jurisdiction of the District Court to accept the Selig deed on behalf of the joint venture, and subject to the terms of the recorded settlement. We also plan to deposit the remaining funds due to NMMI with the registry fund of the Nye County, Nevada District Court, as NMMI itself cannot be located or contacted.
As indicated above, we have only recently been able to commence any title review of the property. The record title consists of a number of inconsistent and incompatible documents. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the preliminary conclusions reached above are accurate or complete. We have been advised that a quiet title suit will be necessary in order to initiate a full exploration program, with which conclusion management has agreed.
We cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to obtain legal title to the mineral interests that we believed we acquired in December 1994 and pursuant to the Harvey Settlement and resulting deeds. We do not intend to expend any funds on exploration of this property until the title situation has been resolved to our satisfaction. We have begun active efforts to begin necessary curative actions sufficient to allow active exploration to commence, including 2011 updates of the litigation title commitment and land status reports as to the unpatented claims, both of which are pending completion. There is no assurance that the curative actions will be successful.
Mineral Titles
The Project is comprised of 183 unpatented (3,370ac/1,363ha) and 28 patented (428ac/173ha) claims, 211 claims in all totaling 3,798ac (1,537ha). See Exhibit 99.2 filed with this report.
The mining law of 1872 established a process, which a claimant may bring a claim to patent. When patented, ownership of the land and mineral rights transfers from the Federal Government to the claimant. The U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) manage the lands covered by unpatented claims.
To maintain unpatented mining claims in good standing, a claim holder must make annual maintenance fee payments to the BLM of $140.00 per claim, plus a $10.00 per claim process fee, for a total of$150 per claim. Fees are payable in the county in which the claims are located.
We believe that all claim filings are current and that the claims are valid until August 31, 2011, when the next annual maintenance fee payments and filings are due.
The table below summarizes our future obligations related to the prospect area. Failure to make the minimum payments as presented below might result in the loss of the mining claims, underlying the prospect area.
Ownership of Project claims is divided into two areas:
·
Manhattan South Project Area (MSPA). This areas consists of 28 patented claims and 127 unpatented claims; and
·
Manhattan North Project Area (MNPA). This area consists of 56 unpatented claims.
The Manhattan South Project Area (MSPA)
The MSPA consists of 28 patented claims (Table 2.2.1) and 127 unpatented claims totaling 2,678ac (1,083ha) more or less. These claims are located within a historic mining district, and as a result, some of these have been subject to numerous assignments and litigation through the years.
The Manhattan North Project Area (MNPA)
The Manhattan North project area has 56 unpatented claims totaling 1,120 acres more or less. The claims, known as the Wild Horse claims, numbered 1-57 (no #11 claim), were located by Calais on or around Feb-Apr 2004. The claims are located on BLM administered lands, Calais is the claimant and owns a 100% interest in these claims.
Legal Issues
Overview Regarding Unpatented Claims
As is the case for all companies in the United States, there are unavoidable risks in holding unpatented mining claims located under the General Mining Law. These include potential challenges to the validity of any claimed discovery, a challenge as to whether claimed discoveries would satisfy the prudent man rule, potential errors in location or recording, and the risk of changes in the law or regulations. Claims upon which no actual discovery exists are held by virtue of the doctrine of pedis possessio, which involves the occupation of claimed mining ground while engaged in a diligent search for a discovery of valuable minerals. There can be no guarantee that pedis possessio rights would be recognized as to any or all of the unpatented mining claims in Nevada if challenged by a third party. There can be no guarantee that any claimed discovery on unpatented grounds will survive challenge by the federal government, if the government sought to challenge title or right to occupy the ground.
Royalties, Agreements and Encumbrances
Royalties
At the MSPA, there is a 2% NSR royalty payable to the MPJV on production from:
·
All patented claims;
·
The Argus Unpatented Claims; and
·
The Surviving Selig Claims. This royalty is payable against the buyout price established in the NMMI litigation settlement.
The Harvey Settlement grants us the right to acquire up to 4% of applicable 5% net smelter royalties to Mr. Harvey (or his assignee) as recorded in the Nevada property agreements for $3 million per 1% acquired; however, we dispute the existence, amount and applicability of the claimed 5% net smelter royalties.
There are no royalties associated with the Wild Horse Claims located in the MNPA.
Encumbrances
Manhattan Property Joint Venture (MPJV)
MSPA is potentially subject to the following encumbrances:
·
The Manhattan South Project Area’s origination is the Manhattan Properties Joint Venture as formed in June 1993 between NMMI (24.5%), Marlowe Harvey/Maran Holding, Inc. (“Harvey”) (51%), and Argus Resources, Inc. (“Argus”) (24.5%). The initial joint venture property consisted of 28 patented claims and 29 unpatented claims.
·
Concurrent with the MPJV formation, 13 of the original claims were encumbered for a $532,000 note in favor of Anthony C. Selig (Anthony Selig Note). Selig, who was a contract purchaser of the properties, was granted the Deed of Trust for his role in allowing a 40% interest in certain of the unpatented and patented claims to be transferred from Argus to NMMI. The Selig Entities were the original owners of the patented and unpatented mining claims comprising the Manhattan Properties, or had contracts to acquire those interests on various terms under agreements which were themselves subject to several amendments over time. In March 1997, NMMI entered into a Sale and Purchase agreement with the Selig Entities to repurchase the Anthony Selig Note for $375,000. NMMI (Manhattan Properties Joint Venture’s 24.5% partner) fulfilled the terms of the note with payments on March 1997 and June 1997. Calais is in possession of this satisfied note, which has not yet been released of record. The Selig entities have not yet released the quitclaim deed to the 1997 properties which is currently being held by Selig’s attorney.
·
In 1997, NMMI encumbered the Manhattan Property joint venture through NMMI’s 24.5% share. NMMI entered into a Subscription Agreement with Silenus Limited on April 14, 1997. The Subscription Agreement required NMMI to grant Silenus Limited a $2,000,000 deed of trust encompassing the Manhattan Property until the Debentures issued to Silenus are converted, redeemed or paid in full. Further title investigation has determined that the Silenus deed of trust, executed by NMMI, has been recorded and does purport to encumber any after-acquired title of NMMI. Calais, which was the majority interest holder in the venture at that date, questions the ability of Silenus to encumber the joint venture property and the Calais and Argus interests in those properties. All of the above Manhattan South Project Area properties (28 patented and 131 unpatented claims) may be encumbered by the Silenus lien. The existence and status of the Silenus lien, and whether it attaches to any venture properties, is a material concern regarding title to the Manhattan South Project Area and must be resolved before a significant expenditure on exploration of the properties is undertaken. Not all of the unpatented claims purporting to be encumbered are current claims, or, claims titled in NMMI at the time of the purported encumbrance.
·
The 2000 Settlement Agreement provides for Calais Resources and Argus Resources to pay to NMMI and Jeff Kramer (an officer of NMMI) $300,000 total plus 5% interest (four $75,000 annual payments, the first payment at closing and a payment on each anniversary of closing). This payment was to reimburse
NMMI’s payment of the Anthony Selig Note paid by NMMI in June 1997. Four $37,500 payments were made to Jeff Kramer and only two $37,500 payments were made to NMMI, as NMMI could not be located after the initial two payments were made; Calais made tender of the funds, but all correspondence was returned as un-deliverable. Two contractual payments, totaling $75,000, have not been made to NMMI. NMMI has no address and no living officers or directors have been located. Calais has resolved to deposit the remaining payments totaling $75,000 with the District Court as part of a proposed curative action. These amounts have not been paid and remain as accrued liabilities on our balance sheet.
·
The 42 unpatented claims, originally located by White Cap Mines, Inc., (and which were themselves re-locations of prior Selig claims) were conveyed to Calais Resources Nevada, Inc. in July 2004, by quitclaim deed dated July 20, 2004, recorded August 10, 2004, between White Cap Mines, Inc. (Marlowe Harvey, President) and Calais Resources Nevada, Inc. The 42 unpatented claims were originally located in Range 44E and are currently listed in Range 41E in the Nye County Recorders records and the BLM-LR2000 claim reports. Further survey work, and or claim location work may be required. Work to correct the description of the proper range in documents recorded in Nye County and with the BLM was completed in 2008. The claims are believed to have been properly located on the ground in Range 44E, and it is further believed that Nevada curative statutes allow correction of the error in the recorded documents.
·
WC-114, WC-115, WC-116, WC-117 unpatented claims are titled to Argus Resources, Inc. Further curative title work is required, which may consist of a clerical error at BLM, which received a deed transferring these interests to Calais.
·
WC#14, WC#16, WC#18, WC#20, WC#106, WC#108, WC#110, WC#112 and WC# 145 are dual claimed by Calais and Selig. Further curative title work is required.
·
Calais has also entered into the Harvey Settlement Agreement discussed above.
The Manhattan North Project Area (MNPA)
There are 2 senior claims immediately north of the common corner of Sections 4, 5, 8 and 9 of T8N, R44E. The claims are Wild Cat and Wild Cat #1, located in 1981, currently owned by Jason and Mark Pauley. This is the area of Wild Horse claims # 44, 47, 48, and 51. These claims are senior to the Wild Horse claims.
There are claims contiguous to the Wild Horse claims. While these claims do not encumber the project area, they bound the project area.
Round Mountain (Smoky Valley Common Operation - Joint Venture between Kinross Gold Corporation and Barrick Gold Corporation) controls a large block of claims contiguous to the north, northeast and east of the Wild Horse claims. These are the MAN claims. Round Mountain controls claims to the south of the Wild Horse claims. These are the SAL claims. In addition, Round Mountain controls claims to the west of the Wild Horse claims. These are the SEP claims.
Newcrest Resources controls claims to the south east of the Wild Horse claims, immediately adjacent to the Round Mountain claims.
Geology and Mineralization
The geology at the Manhattan project consists of a three main rock types. The most abundant are Paleozoic age, foliated quartzites, marbles, schists and phyllites. These are cut by Cretaceous age granitic intrusive rocks. Both of which were subsequently cut by a Tertiary age caldera complex and its associated volcanic rocks. Faulting of the Paleozoic age rocks related to later tectonic events add to their complexity.
There are four types of mineralization found in the Manhattan project area. These are 1) Gold-quartz veins; 2) Folded and faulted replacement gold deposits within the meta-sedimentary rocks; 3) Disseminated gold with pyrite and arsenopyrite in limestone; 4) Gold associated with arsenic, mercury, and stibnite. All of these styles of mineralization appear to be concentrated along faults structures and bedding. The mineralization is believed to have
occurred during three events dated at 75Ma, 45Ma, and 16Ma (Shawe et al 1986). The main mineralization in the White Caps Mine area is the gold associated with mercury and arsenic.
Exploration
In the past, exploratory drilling was conducted in the Manhattan South area focused on defining resources within the Cambrian aged White Caps Limestone unit near the White Caps Mine. Several exploration companies over the years have drilled mostly reverse circulation (RC) drillholes. The most comprehensive program was conducted from 1982 through 1984 targeting a shallow, bulk tonnage open pit type mineralization. A few of these holes encountered discrete, high-grade gold zones but wider intercepts of disseminated gold mineralization were not found.
In 1995, Calais commissioned a magnetotellurics survey over the entire property. The results of this survey showed a series of anomalies that occur in a linear trend parallel to the general strike of the Paleozoic rocks in the Manhattan South area. A drill program was completed in 1997 to target the magnetotellurics anomalies. The results showed that anomalous gold mineralization is associated with some of the magnetic anomalies.
The Manhattan North area is an exploration target that was staked in 2004. This is an area of northwest-southeast striking veins and mineralized shear zones with anomalous gold values.
Environmental Liabilities and Permitting
There are no current activities requiring permits. Mine tailings located on or near several of the properties have not been the subject of evaluation. The majority of those tailings had been previously conveyed by prior owners to Anthony C. Selig. The areas of dumps and tailings conveyed to Anthony Selig were surveyed and described prior to conveyance in several 1989 deeds. Calais has been contacted by the State of Nevada, Division of Minerals and the United States Forest Service regarding environmental remediation on the Manhattan project. See “Item 3.