ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The properties that we owned as of December 31, 1999 are divided into two operating divisions. We have broken down these two operating divisions into 24 identifiable markets. We have provided this breakdown for external reporting purposes only. It reflects the key markets of interest to our unitholders and noteholders and does not reflect how we are operationally managed. See "Item 14. Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for segment information related to our operations.
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTIES
At December 31, 1999, we owned 724 industrial buildings aggregating approximately 65.2 million rentable square feet, located in 24 markets nationwide. Our industrial properties accounted for $306.0 million, or 93.9%, of our annualized base rent derived from our properties as of December 31, 1999. Our industrial properties were 95.9% leased to over 2,240 customers as of the same date, the largest of which accounted for no more than 1.6% of our annualized base rent from our industrial properties.
Property Characteristics. Our industrial properties, which consist primarily of warehouse distribution facilities suitable for single or multiple customers, are typically comprised of multiple buildings. The following table identifies characteristics of our typical industrial buildings:
Lease Terms. Our industrial properties are typically subject to lease on a "triple net basis," defined as leases in which customers pay their proportionate share of real estate taxes, insurance and operating costs, or subject to leases on a "modified gross basis," defined as leases in which customers pay expenses over certain threshold levels. Lease terms typically range from three to ten years, with an average of seven years, excluding renewal options. The majority of the industrial leases do not include renewal options.
Overview of Major Target Markets. Our industrial properties are located near key passenger and air cargo airports, key interstate highways and ports in major metropolitan areas, such as Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth, Northern New Jersey, the San Francisco Bay Area and Southern California. We believe our industrial properties' strategic location, transportation network and infrastructure, and large consumer and manufacturing bases support strong demand for industrial space. According to statistics published by CB Richard Ellis/Torto Wheaton Research, the national hub markets listed above are six of the nation's eight largest warehouse markets and, as of December 31, 1999, comprised 42% of the warehouse inventory of the 47 industrial markets tracked by them. According to statistics published by Regional Financial Associates, as of December 31, 1999, the combined population of these markets was approximately 44.2 million, and the amount of per capita warehouse space was 19.0% above the average for those 47 industrial markets.
Within these metropolitan areas, our industrial properties are concentrated in in-fill locations (which are characterized by limited new construction opportunities due to high population densities and low levels of available land that could be developed into competitive industrial properties) within established, relatively large submarkets (markets within a metropolitan area in which the competitive environment for one or more property types is largely dependent upon the supply of such property type in such market rather than the supply of such property type in other portions of such metropolitan area) which we believe should provide a higher rate of occupancy and rent growth than properties located elsewhere. These in-fill locations are
typically near major passenger and air cargo facilities, seaports or convenient to major highways and rail lines, and are proximate to a diverse labor pool. There is typically broad demand for industrial space in these centrally located submarkets due to a diverse mix of industries and types of industrial uses, including warehouse distribution, light assembly and manufacturing. We generally avoid locations at the periphery of metropolitan areas where there are fewer supply constraints. Small metropolitan areas or cities without a heavy concentration of warehouse activity typically have few, if any, supply-constrained locations (those areas typified by significant population densities, a limited number of existing industrial customers and a low availability of land which could be developed into competitive space for additional industrial customers).
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY SUMMARY
As of December 31, 1999, the 724 industrial buildings were diversified across 24 markets nationwide. The average age of our industrial properties is 12 years (since the property was built or substantially renovated), which we believe should result in lower operating costs over the long term. The following table represents properties in which we own a fee simple interest or a controlling interest (consolidated), and excludes properties in which we only own a non-controlling interest (unconsolidated).
- --------------- (1) Annualized base rent represents the monthly contractual amount under existing leases at December 31, 1999, multiplied by 12. This amount excludes expense reimbursements and rental abatements.
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY CUSTOMER INFORMATION
Largest Industrial Property Customers. Our 25 largest industrial property customers by annualized base rent are set forth in the table below.
- --------------- (1) Customer(s) may be a subsidiary of or an entity affiliated with the named customer.
(2) Computed as aggregate rentable square feet divided by the aggregate leased square feet of our industrial properties.
(3) Computed as annualized base rent divided by the aggregate annualized base rent of our industrial properties.
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY LEASE EXPIRATIONS
The following table summarizes the lease expirations for our industrial properties for leases in place as of December 31, 1999, without giving effect to the exercise of renewal options or termination rights, if any, at or prior to the scheduled expirations.
- --------------- (1) Schedule includes executed leases that commence after December 31, 1999. Schedule excludes leases expiring prior to January 1, 2000.
(2) Calculated as monthly rent at expiration multiplied by 12.
(3) Rent per square foot is calculated by dividing the annualized base rent of expiring leases by the square footage expiring in any given year.
(4) Includes leases encompassing 488,800 square feet which are on a month-to-month basis.
(5) Represents percentage of total square footage of expiring leases.
RETAIL PROPERTIES
At December 31, 1999, we owned 9 retail centers aggregating approximately 1.6 million rentable square feet, 5 of which are grocer-anchored. Our retail properties accounted for $20.0 million, or 6.1%, of annualized base rent derived from our properties as of December 31, 1999. Our retail properties were 92.4% leased to over 240 customers, the largest of which accounted for 5.3% of annualized base rent from our retail properties as of such date. Our retail properties have an average age of six years since built, expanded or renovated.
During 1999, we initiated a plan to dispose of substantially all of our retail centers. In three separate transactions with BPP Retail, LLC, we disposed of a total of 25 retail centers, aggregating approximately 4.3 million rentable square feet, for an aggregate price of $560.3 million. We also disposed of an additional five retail centers, totaling approximately 1.1 million rentable square feet, during 1999. As of December 31, 1999, we had four additional retail centers, aggregating approximately 1.2 million rentable square feet, which were held for divestiture.
RETAIL PROPERTY SUMMARY
Rentable square footage occupied by anchor customers accounted for 61.9% of the aggregate square footage of our retail properties as of December 31, 1999. Annualized base rent as of such date for our 25 largest customers was approximately $10.2 million, representing approximately 51.1% of annualized base rent for all of our retail properties. Annualized base rent for the remaining retail customers was approximately $9.8 million as of the same date, representing approximately 48.9% of the annualized base rent for all of our retail properties. The following table sets forth, on a market basis, the rentable square footage leased to anchor customers and non-anchor customers as of December 31, 1999, and represents properties in which we own a fee simple interest or a controlling interest (consolidated), and excludes properties in which we only own a non-controlling interest (unconsolidated).
- --------------- (1) Annualized base rent means the monthly contractual amount under existing leases at December 31, 1999, multiplied by 12. This amount excludes expense reimbursements, rental abatements and percentage rents.
(2) Calculated as total Annualized Base Rent divided by total rentable square feet actually leased as of December 31, 1999.
(3) We hold an interest in this property through a joint venture interest in a limited partnership.
(4) This property is being redeveloped. All calculations are based on rentable square feet existing as of December 31,1999.
(5) This property consists of land held for future development.
(6) This property is being held for divestiture as of December 31, 1999.
OPERATING AND LEASING STATISTICS
TOTAL PORTFOLIO SUMMARY
The following table summarizes key operating and leasing statistics for all of our properties as of and for the year ended December 31, 1999.
- --------------- (1) In addition to owned square feet, we manage, through our subsidiary, AMB Investment Management, 3.7 million, 0.7 million, and 0.1 million additional square feet of industrial, retail, and other properties, respectively. We also have an investment in 4.0 million square feet of industrial properties through our investment in an unconsolidated joint venture.
(2) Consists of industrial buildings and retail centers aggregating 35.1 million and 0.7 million square feet, respectively, that have been owned by us since January 1, 1998, and excludes development properties prior to stabilization. See "Item 14. Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for total property net operating income by segment.
(3) Net operating income, or NOI, consists of rental revenues, including reimbursements and excluding straight-line rents, less property level operating expenses.
(4) Includes leasing costs and building improvements.
SAME STORE SUMMARY
The following table summarizes key operating and leasing statistics for our same store properties as of and for the year ended December 31, 1999. For an explanation of our same store properties, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Results of Operations."
- --------------- (1) Adjusted to remove the effects of divested properties.
(2) Net operating income, or NOI, consists of rental revenues, including reimbursements and excluding straight-line rents, less property level operating expenses.
HISTORICAL OCCUPANCY RATES, AVERAGE BASE RENTS, RENT INCREASES AND TENANT RETENTION RATES
The following table sets forth weighted average occupancy rates and average base rents based on square feet leased of our industrial properties and retail centers as of and for the periods presented. The following table also sets forth information relating to tenant retention rates and average rent increases (cash basis) on renewal and re-tenanted space for our industrial properties and retail properties for the periods presented.
- --------------- (1) Average base rent per square foot represents the total annualized contractual base rental revenue for the period divided by the average occupied square feet leased for the period.
SAME STORE SUMMARY
The following table summarizes key operating and leasing statistics for our same store properties as of and for the year ended December 31, 1999. For an explanation of our same store properties, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Results of Operations."
- --------------- (1) Adjusted to remove the effects of divested properties.
(2) Net operating income, or NOI, consists of rental revenues, including reimbursements and excluding straight-line rents, less property level operating expenses.
HISTORICAL OCCUPANCY RATES, AVERAGE BASE RENTS, RENT INCREASES AND TENANT RETENTION RATES
The following table sets forth weighted average occupancy rates and average base rents based on square feet leased of our industrial properties and retail centers as of and for the periods presented. The following table also sets forth information relating to tenant retention rates and average rent increases (cash basis) on renewal and re-tenanted space for our industrial properties and retail properties for the periods presented.
- --------------- (1) Average base rent per square foot represents the total annualized contractual base rental revenue for the period divided by the average occupied square feet leased for the period.
RECURRING TENANT IMPROVEMENTS AND LEASING COMMISSIONS PER SQUARE FOOT LEASED
The table below summarizes for our industrial properties and retail properties, separately, the recurring tenant improvements and leasing commissions per square feet leased for the periods presented. The recurring tenant improvements and leasing commissions represent costs incurred to lease space after the initial lease term of the initial customer, excluding costs incurred to relocate customers as part of a re-tenanting strategy. The tenant improvements and leasing commissions set forth below are not necessarily indicative of future tenant improvements and leasing commissions.
DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE
The following table sets forth the properties owned by us as of December 31, 1999 which were undergoing renovation, expansion or new development. No assurance can be given that any of such projects will be completed on schedule or within budgeted amounts.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTED DELIVERIES (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
- --------------- (1) Estimated stabilization date represents management's current estimate of when capital improvements for repositioning, development, and redevelopment programs will have been completed and in effect for a period of time sufficient to achieve market occupancy.
(2) Represents total estimated cost of renovation, expansion or development, including initial acquisition costs, debt and equity carry, and partner earnouts. The estimates are based on our current estimates and forecasts and are therefore subject to change.
(3) Excludes 305 acres of land and other acquisition costs totaling approximately $32.0 million which represents future phases of current projects which have not been committed to, or for which final project planning has not been completed, and other land inventory.
(4) Of such space, 24.9% was leased as of December 31, 1999.
(5) As of December 31, 1999, amounts funded to date for deliveries in 2000 and 2001 are approximately $64.4 million and $49.2 million, respectively.
(6) This project represents a redevelopment of an industrial warehouse into office space. We will locate our corporate headquarters in approximately one-third of the space.
RETAIL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTED DELIVERIES (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
- --------------- (1) Excludes one project that is held for divestiture.
(2) Estimated stabilization date represents management's current estimate of when capital improvements for repositioning, development, and redevelopment program will have been completed and in effect for a period of time sufficient to achieve market occupancy.
(3) Represents total estimated cost of renovation, expansion or development, including initial acquisition costs, debt and equity carry, and partner earnouts. The estimates are based on our current estimates and forecasts and are therefore subject to change.
(4) Excludes 39 acres of land and other acquisition costs totaling approximately $14.9 million which represents further phases of current projects which have not been committed to, or for which final project planning has not been completed, and other land inventory.
(5) Of such space, 76% was leased as of December 31, 1999.
(6) As of December 31, 1999, approximately $50.9 million has been funded.
PROPERTIES HELD THROUGH JOINT VENTURES, LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES AND PARTNERSHIPS
Consolidated:
As of December 31, 1999, we held interests in 21 joint ventures, limited liability companies and partnerships with certain unaffiliated third parties through which 27 properties were held that are consolidated in our consolidated financial statements. Pursuant to the existing agreements with respect to each joint venture, we hold a greater than 50% interest in 17 of the joint ventures, a 50% interest in two joint ventures, and less than 50% interest in two joint ventures. In certain cases such agreements provide that we are a limited partner or that the other party to the joint venture is principally responsible for day-to-day management of the property (though in all such cases, we have approval rights with respect to significant decisions involving the underlying properties). Under the agreements governing the joint ventures, we and the other party to the joint venture may be required to make additional capital contributions, and subject to certain limitations, the joint ventures may incur additional debt. Such agreements also impose certain restrictions on the transfer of joint venture interests by us or the other party to the joint venture, and provide certain rights to us and/or the other party to the joint venture to sell its interest to the joint venture or to the other venturer on terms specified in the agreement. All of the joint ventures terminate in 2024 or later, but may end earlier if a joint venture ceases to hold any interest in or have any obligations relating to the property held by the joint venture.
The following table sets forth certain information regarding our properties owned through consolidated joint ventures as of December 31, 1999.
INDUSTRIAL CONSOLIDATED JOINT VENTURES (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
- --------------- (1) Represents the book value of the property (before accumulated depreciation) owned by the joint venture entity and excludes net other assets.
(2) These properties are owned by a single co-investment joint venture partner that is a client of AMB Investment Management.
(3) Represents a property held by the Alliance Fund I which is co-invested with a private institutional real estate investment trust.
(4) Represents estimated square feet at completion of development project.
(5) Excludes projected building square footage on 86.4 acres of land representing future phases of current projects which have not been committed to, or for which final planning has not been completed.
(6) Represents a development project with a Development Alliance Partner in which a separate account co-investor also has an interest. The Development Alliance Partner's share of funds from operations is 2%.
(7) Represents our investment in a ground leased property.
(8) Represents a credit facility held by the Alliance Fund I. As of December 31, 1999, our projected ownership upon final closing of the Alliance Fund I was estimated to be 20%.
RETAIL CONSOLIDATED JOINT VENTURES (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
- --------------- (1) Represents the book value of the property (before accumulated depreciation) owned by the joint venture entity and excludes net other assets.
(2) Represents estimated square feet at completion of development project.
(3) Included as part of retail properties held for divestiture.
(4) Represents 39 acres of land for future phases of current projects which have not been committed to, or for which final project planning has not been completed.
We account for all of the above investments on a consolidated basis for financial reporting purposes because of our ability to exercise control over significant aspects of the investment as well as our significant economic interest in the investments. See "Item 14. Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."
Unconsolidated:
As of December 31, 1999, we held interests in two equity investment joint ventures that are unconsolidated in our financial statements. The management and control over significant aspects of these investments are with the third party joint venture partner.
UNCONSOLIDATED JOINT VENTURES (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
- --------------- (1) Represents estimated square feet at completion of development project.
SECURED DEBT
As of December 31, 1999, we had $696.9 million of indebtedness secured by deeds of trust on 17 properties. As of December 31, 1999, the total gross investment value of those properties secured by debt was $1.4 billion. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources" and "Item 14. Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included in this report. We believe that as of December 31, 1999, the value of the properties securing the respective obligations in each case exceeded the principal amount of the outstanding obligations.
ITEM 3.