ITEM 2. Properties.
Description of our Mineral Property Interests
South Idaho Silver Project
On December 7, 2011 (the “Effective Date”), we entered into a Assignment and Assumption Agreement (“Assignment Agreement”) with Castle Creek Silver, Inc. (“Castle Creek”), a Idaho corporation, and Robert Ebisch (‘Ebisch”). Castle Creek and Ebisch are parties to an Option to Purchase and Royalty Agreement dated July 15, 2011 (the “Option Agreement”), for Castle Creek’s option to acquire an undivided 100% of the right, title and interest of Ebisch in and to the PB 7, 9, 11, 12, 23, 25, 27, and 29 lode mining claims (IMC #’s, respectively, 196852, 196854, 196856, 196857, 196866, 196867, 196868, and 196869), situated in Owyhee County, Idaho, (hereinafter together with any form of successor or substitute mineral tenure called the “South Idaho Silver Project”). Pursuant to the terms of the Assignment Agreement, Castle Creek transferred and assigned us all of its right, title and interest, in, to and under the Option Agreement and we assumed the assignment of the Option Agreement agreeing to be bound, the same extent as Castle Creek, to the terms and conditions of the Option Agreement. As consideration for the Assignment Agreement, we issued Castle Creek 1,000,000 restricted shares of our common stock and are obligated to pay Castle Creek $50,000 in cash within twelve (12) months of the Effective Date, which is December 7, 2012, and Castle Creek will be entitled to a 1% net smelter return (“NSR”) from any ore produced from the South Idaho Silver Project. At any time from the Effective Date, we have the right to acquire the 1% NSR payable to Castle Creek for $250,000.
We received a waiver on the payments of $2,500 to Castle Creek, making it due on March 31, 2013.
The Assignment Agreement includes customary representations and warranties. Under the terms of the Assignment Agreement, Castle Creek and Ebisch have agreed to indemnify us from claims resulting from any breach or inaccuracy of any representation or warranty made by Castle Creek or Ebisch in the Assignment Agreement and for any breaches of any representations, warranties, obligations, terms or covenants of either Castle Creek or Ebisch under or pursuant to the Option Agreement.
The Option Agreement and assignment of Castle Creek’s right, title and interest, in, to and under the Option Agreement provide that we will have exercised the option to acquire an undivided 100% of Ebisch’s right, title and interest in and to the South Idaho Silver Project after incurring an aggregate of $210,000 in exploration expenditures, paying Ebisch an aggregate of $80,000 plus five per cent (5%) of any joint-venture and buyout payments (hereafter referred to as “JV&BP”) and paying filing fees over the term of the Option Agreement. The Option Agreement provides that the cash payments payable to Ebisch shall be made according to the following schedule:
·
$2,500 on or before January 31, 2012 plus five per cent (5%) of any JV&BP;
·
$2,500 on or before September 15, 2012 plus five per cent (5%) of any JV&BP;(waived until March 31,2013;
- 17 -
·
$5,000 on or before September 15, 2013 plus five per cent (5%) of any JV&BP;plus as per the waiver an additional $1,500;
·
$10,000 on or before September 15, 2014 plus five per cent (5%) of any JV&BP;
·
$15,000 on or before September 15, 2015 plus five per cent (5%) of any JV&BP;
·
$20,000 on or before September 15, 2016 plus five per cent (5%) of any JV&BP; and
·
$25,000 on or before September 15, 2017 plus five per cent (5%) of any JV&BP.
The Option Agreement provides that the exploration expenditures of an aggregate of not less than $210,000 on the Property shall be incurred as follows:
·
on or before April 15, 2012, incur not less than an aggregate of $10,000 in exploration expenditures;
·
on or before September 15, 2012, incur not less than an aggregate of $20,000 in exploration expenditures;(waived until June 20,2013
·
on or before September 15, 2013, incur not less than an aggregate of $100,000 in exploration expenditures; and
●
on or before September 15, 2014, incur not less than an aggregate of $210,000 in exploration expenditures.
In addition to the foregoing cash payments, exploration expenditures and filing fees, we will be responsible for the following, in order to maintain our interest in the South Idaho Silver Project:
●
make advance royalty payments to Ebisch, commencing on September 15, 2015 and continuing on the 15th day of September each and every year thereafter for so long as we or our assigns retains an interest in the South Idaho Silver Project, of $25,000 per year; and
●
incur a minimum of $100,000 of annual exploration expenditures on the South Idaho Silver Project on or before September 15th each and every year after September 15, 2015, which could be offset by exploration expenditures in excess of $100,000 in any prior annual period.
- 18 -
Description of South Idaho Silver Project
In connection with our consideration of entering into the Assignment Agreement, we conducted a diligence review of the South Idaho Silver Project. The description of property contained herein is the product of our due diligence of the South Idaho Silver Project underlying the Option Agreement.
Property Description and Location
The general location of the South Idaho Silver Project is indentified on the map below:
Location, Area, and Type of Mineral Tenure
The South Idaho Silver Project lies about 49 miles south of Boise, Idaho on the flanks of the Snake River Plain, a vast graben-like physiographic region. The South Idaho Silver Project lies in Sections 14 and 15, Township 6 South, Range 1 West, Boise Meridian, Owyhee County, Idaho. Mineral rights are held by eight federal unpatented lode mining clams. These cover approximately 160 acres (65 hectares).
- 19 -
PROPERTY CORNER COORDINATES- UTM NAD 27 CONUS
The eight unpatented mining claims are numbered PB 7 (IMC # 196852), PB 9 (IMC # 196854), PB 11 (IMC # 196856), PB 12 (IMC # 196857), PB 23 (IMC # 196866), PB 25 (IMC # 196867), PB 27 (IMC # 196868), and PB 29 (IMC # 196869).
Our ability to explore and mine the South Idaho Silver Project depends on the validity of title to the South Idaho Silver Project. The South Idaho Silver Project consists of unpatented mining claims. Maintenance of rights to unpatented mining claims contain certain requirements including sufficiency of mineral discovery, proper posting and marking of boundaries, failure to meet statutory guidelines, assessment work and possible conflicts with other claims. We have not obtained a title opinion nor title insurance on the underlying unpatented claims at this exploration stage.
Accessibility, Climate, Local resources, Infrastructure, Physiography
Topography, Elevation, and Vegetation
The South Idaho Silver Project is a steeply-incised drainage that drops about two hundred meters from the peneplain that lies to the immediate north. The elevation of the South Idaho Silver Project is about 3,937 feet above mean sea level. Vegetation consists primarily of sagebrush and short grasses.
Accessibility
The South Idaho Silver Project is readily accessed from Nampa, Idaho, which lies on Federal Interstate Highway 84. Nampa is the nearest large town that has services necessary for mineral exploration and mining. From Nampa, paved State Highway 78 is followed about 43 miles to the south to the Oreana turnoff. From there, about 3 miles of paved road and 6 miles of dirt road lead to the property. Unimproved tracks provide access to the claim group. Road access to the south side of the South Idaho Silver Project is limited. Mechanized work there may require construction of a temporary creek crossing, although one unimproved road crosses the South Idaho Silver Project at a ford.
- 20 -
Climate
The climate is semi-arid with roughly 5.9 inches per year precipitation. Summer temperatures may rise to 104 degrees Fahrenheit while winter temperatures may fall to as low as 14 degrees Fahrenheit. The South Idaho Silver Project is commonly subject to strong winds. The South Idaho Silver Project can be accessed year-round because of the mild climate, good road access, and low elevation of about 3,937 feet above mean sea level.
Water Rights, Power, and Mining Personnel
The status of water rights at the South Idaho Silver Project is uncertain. The amount of water in the vicinity of the South Idaho Silver Project is adequate for exploratory drilling, but probably not for mineral processing. The nearest power lines are about 6 miles. Mining personnel are not available locally.
The most important natural feature on the South Idaho Silver Project is a perennial stream called castle creek. During the summer, it has estimated that it flows at a minimum rate of several hundred gallons per minute. A temporary water withdrawal permit from the State of Idaho would be required for drill water. If such a permit would be granted, water might be pumped to any drill site, with a substantial cost savings on water truck rental and driver wages. There is no assurance such a permit would be granted, and if granted requirements to such a permit would be cost-effective.
Tailings Storage Areas, Waste Disposal Areas, and Plant Sites
We have not identified private land adjacent to the South Idaho Silver Project or within close proximity that could be used for potential storage areas, waste disposal or processing sites. There is public land in the vicinity, but it is unknown whether permits would be granted for such uses.
Previous Exploration History
There is no verifiable information that the South Idaho Silver Project was a producing property in the past. Prior site visits indicate that up to one hundred meters of historic underground workings exist on the South Idaho Silver Project. These may have been completed approximately 100 years ago. It is unknown the state of repair of these workings and the extent of accessibility. No mineralized material or reserves have been identified or quantified on the South Idaho Silver Project. No known production has come from the South Idaho Silver Project.
In 2008, two private individuals located various mining claims in the area including those described herein and leased to a private exploration company, Castle Creek, which retained a professional geologist whose site visits and data review, are the primary source of the historical information described herein.
Geological Setting and Local Geology
The South Idaho Silver Project lies upon the margins of the Snake River Plain, a vast graben-like, Cenozoic Age structure that covers a large part of southern Idaho. Regionally, several mineral districts lie along the margin of the Snake River Plain.
The geology consists primarily of a Late Cretaceous Age granodiorite which hosts veins and breccia bodies that contain gold, silver, lead, zinc, copper sulfide mineralization. The granodiorite and breccias are covered locally by Tertiary Age, post-mineral basalts. The breccia bodies are the primary target on the South Idaho Silver Project. What are believed to be high-grade veins are of secondary interest.
Property Geology
Granite is widespread and covered locally by post-mineral basalts. Faulting consists primarily of extensional block-faulting. The granite commonly contains large xenoliths of schist. Locally, the granite has undergone argillic and silicic alteration. Veins and breccias of interest on the Property are granite-hosted. A detailed geologic map has not yet been completed on the South Idaho Silver Project.
- 21 -
Potential Deposit Type
Two potential deposit types are of interest at the South Idaho Silver Project. The first of these is the hydrothermal breccias that are found in several areas. The extent of this type of mineralization is uncertain. The second potential deposit type is high-grade quartz/sulfide veins that may be genetically associated to the breccias. An exploration program has been planned to identify steeply-dipping pipe-like bodies of quartz/sulfide mineralization. Both types of mineralization are probably of epithermal origin. Little data on the potential deposit types is available because the South Idaho Silver Project is in such an early stage of contemporary exploration.
Mineralization
Rock samples taken primarily from a sulfide-rich, siliceous hydrothermal breccia and associated rocks on the south side of the Property in 2008 by the prior owner give indication of the presence of gold and silver mineralization within a hydrothermal breccia. The breccia is hosted by altered granodiorite. The breccia contains locally massive pyrite, galena, sphalerite, arsenopyrite, chalcopyrite within a siliceous, sulfide-bearing matrix. Clasts within the breccia consist of dark grey rhyolite with semi-massive sulfides, massive pyrite with base metal sulfides and massive arsenopyrite, and light-grey quartz. Besides gold and silver, the mineralization contains anomalous arsenic, copper, lead, and zinc mineralization.
The geologic control on this breccia mineralization is uncertain. The breccia lies in the vicinity of the intersection of two topographic lineaments which control the orientation of the Property. The length, width, depth, and continuity of both the breccia mineralization and sporadic vein mineralization are uncertain.
Metallurgical
No metallurgical testing has been conducted.
Reserves
There are no established probable or proven reserves on the South Idaho Silver Project.
Exploration
Only a limited amount of work has been completed on the South Idaho Silver Project. This work has been confined primarily to rock sampling at historic prospects. The rock samples taken were grab samples indicating mineralization that are not representative of any specific length or width of mineralization. They do not reflect the average grade of mineralization on any of the mineralized zones sampled. The rock sampling completed thus far has shown primarily that mineralization of interest is found in several areas of the South Idaho Silver Project. The geologic and geochemical surveys completed on the South Idaho Silver Project have been done a professional geologist.
We are not aware of any drilling that has been completed on the South Idaho Silver Project.
Exploration Plan
Our primary exploration plan in this under-explored area is to discover and focus on areas of known gold/silver breccias mineralization; emphasizing exploration near the approximate intersection of northerly and easterly-trending topographic linears.
The above strategies would greatly limit the areas to be investigated by geophysics and possible subsequent drilling, which is anticipated to result in cost savings. However, all prospects in the area should have at least a cursory examination.
- 22 -
Comprehensive underground mapping and sampling of accessible historic mine workings is recommended. This will help determine the extent and average grade of mineralization on the property. Geophysics may also be necessary to enhance target definition. An Induced Polarization(IP) /Resistivity survey is recommended to delineate sub-surface sulfide mineral distribution. Gold/Silver mineralization found thus far often correlates positively with sulfide content.
On the eight-claim South Idaho Silver Project, several areas of structural intersections should be evaluated using electrical geophysical methods. These should be followed-up by drilling to test for any depth extension of the mineralization. An itemized budget for this work is shown below:
This work plan may be accomplished in a two-phase plan with the initial budget of $210,000 required meet work requirements required in the Option Agreement, for the period from 2012 to 2014.
Our current cash on hand is insufficient to complete any of the planned exploration activities and the full implementation of any planned exploration program is dependent on our ability to secure sufficient financing. We can provide no assurance that we will secure sufficient financing. In the absence of such financing, we will not be able to pursue our planned exploration program and may not be able to maintain the option to acquire the South Idaho Silver Project or underlying mining claims in good standing. If we do not fulfill the terms of the Assignment Agreement or Option Agreement, then our ability to commence or continue operations could be materially limited. We also may be forced to abandon the South Idaho Silver Project. If we are unable to raise additional capital within the next twelve months, we will experience liquidity problems and management expects that we will need to curtail operations, liquidate assets, seek additional capital on less favorable terms and/or pursue other remedial measures. We may consider entering into a joint venture arrangement to provide the required funding to explore the South Idaho Silver Project. We have not undertaken efforts to locate a joint venture participant and there is no assurance that any third party would enter into a joint venture agreement with us in order to fund exploration of the South Idaho Silver Project. If we were to enter into a joint venture arrangement, we would likely have to assign a percentage of our interest in South Idaho Silver Project to the joint venture participant.
- 23 -
In 2012 we completed our review and compilation of historical documents, and have revise dour exploration plan note above to two different phases splitting up the forecast drilling program. Current immediate plans are prior to the summer of 2013 to conduct surface sampling and advanced geologic mapping, the costs of which are included in the above budget.
Boulder Hill Project
Purchase and Sale Agreement of Unpatented Mining Claims
On December 16, 2011, we entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (“Purchase Agreement”) with Boulder Hill Mines Inc., an Idaho corporation (“Boulder Hill”) relating to the purchase from Boulder Hill of three unpatented mining claims situated in Lincoln County, Montana (the “Boulder Hill Claims”). As consideration for the Boulder Hill Claims, we issued Boulder Hill 500,000 restricted shares of our common stock, are obligated to pay Boulder Hill $25,000 in cash within twelve (12) months of the Effective Date, which is December 16, 2012, and $25,000 in cash within twenty-four (24) months of the Effective Date, which is December 16, 2013. Boulder Hill sold, transferred and conveyed the Claims to us by executing and delivering quitclaim deeds to us.
We received a waiver of the $25,000 cash payment requirement, such payment is now due in May 2013.
The Purchase Agreement includes customary representations and warranties. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, Boulder Hill has agreed to indemnify us from claims resulting from any breach or inaccuracy of any representation or warranty made by Boulder Hill in the Purchase Agreement.
Assignment and Assumption of Lease Agreement
On December 16, 2011 (the “Effective Date”), we entered into an Assignment and Assumption Agreement (“Boulder Hill Assignment Agreement”) with Boulder Hill, and Jim Ebisch (“Ebisch”). Boulder Hill and Ebisch are parties to an Option to Purchase and Royalty Agreement dated July 15, 2008, as amended on August 1, 2011 (the “ Boulder Hill Option Agreement”) which granted to Boulder Hill an option to acquire an undivided 100% of the right, title and interest of Ebisch in and to that certain Montana State Metal ferrous Gold Lease M-1974-06 dated August 21,2006 he entered into with the State of Montana (the “Montana Gold Lease”) under which Ebisch was granted the exclusive right to prospect, explore, develop and mine for gold, silver and other minerals on property situated in Lincoln County, Montana. The Montana Gold Lease is for a ten (10) year term and is subject to the 5% net smelter return due to the State of Montana. Pursuant to the terms of the Boulder Hill Assignment Agreement, Boulder Hill transferred and assigned us all of its right, title and interest, in, to and under the Option Agreement and we assumed the assignment of the Boulder Hill Option Agreement agreeing to be bound, the same extent as Boulder Hill, to the terms and conditions of the Boulder Hill Option Agreement. As consideration for the Boulder Hill Assignment Agreement, we issued Boulder Hill 500,000 restricted shares of our common stock and are obligated to pay Boulder Hill $25,000 in cash within twelve (12) months of the Effective Date, which is December 16, 2012,waived until May 2013, and $25,000 in cash within twenty-four (24) months of the Effective Date, which is December 16, 2013.
The Boulder Hill Assignment Agreement includes customary representations and warranties. Under the terms of the Boulder Hill Assignment Agreement, Boulder Hill and Ebisch have agreed to indemnify us from claims resulting from any breach or inaccuracy of any representation or warranty made by Boulder Hill or Ebisch in the Boulder Hill Assignment Agreement and for any breaches of any representations, warranties, obligations, terms or covenants of either Boulder Hill or Ebisch under or pursuant to the Boulder Hill Option Agreement.
The Boulder Hill Option Agreement and assignment of Boulder Hill’s right, title and interest, in, to and under the Boulder Hill Option Agreement provide that we will have exercised the option to acquire an undivided 100% of Ebisch’s right, title and interest in and to the Montana Gold Lease after incurring an aggregate of $210,000 in exploration expenditures, paying Ebisch an aggregate of $80,000 plus five per cent (5%) of any joint-venture and buyout payments (hereafter referred to as ”JV&BP”) and paying filing fees over the term of the Boulder Hill Option Agreement. Our responsibility for the foregoing exploration expenditures and cash payments is inclusive of exploration expenditures incurred by Boulder Hill to the present and payments previously made by Boulder Hill to Ebisch under the terms of the Boulder Hill Option Agreement.
- 24 -
The Boulder Hill Option Agreement provides that the cash payments payable to Ebisch shall be made according to the following schedule:
·
$20,000 on or before October 14, 2012 plus five per cent (5%) of any joint-venture and buyout payments (hereafter referred to as “JV&BP”), of which an initial payment of $3,000 is to be made on or before October 30, 2011( $3,000 was made in January 2012, with the balance of $17,000 waived until May 2013);
·
$15,000 on or before July 15, 2013 plus five per cent (5%) of any JV&BP;
·
$20,000 on or before July 15, 2014 plus five per cent (5%) of any JV&BP; and
·
$25,000 on or before July 15, 2015 plus five per cent (5%) of any JV&BP.
The Option Agreement provides that the exploration expenditures of an aggregate of not less than $210,000 on the property underlying the Montana Gold Lease shall be incurred as follows:
·
on or before August 1, 2012, incur not less than an aggregate of $49,000 in exploration expenditures(this requirement has been waived untilMay 2013); and
·
on or before August 1, 2013, incur not less than an aggregate of $210,000 in exploration expenditures.
In addition to the foregoing cash payments and exploration expenditures, we will be responsible for paying filing fees over the term of the Boulder Hill Option Agreement and the following in order to maintain Ebisch’s interest in the Montana Gold Lease:
In addition to the foregoing cash payments and exploration expenditures, we will be responsible for paying filing fees over the term of the Boulder Hill Option Agreement and the following in order to maintain Ebisch’s interest in the Montana Gold Lease:
·
make advance royalty payments to Ebisch, commencing on July 15, 2015 and continuing on the 15th day of July each and every year thereafter for so long as the Company or its assigns retains its interest in the in order to maintain Ebisch’s interest in the Montana Gold Lease, of $25,000 per year; and
·
incur a minimum of $100,000 of annual exploration expenditures on the property underlying the in order to maintain Ebisch’s interest in the Montana Gold Lease on or before July 15th each and every year after July 15, 2011, which could be offset by exploration expenditures in excess of $100,000 in any prior annual period.
Description of Boulder Hill Project
In connection with our consideration of entering into the foregoing agreements, we conducted a diligence review. The Claims and the property that is subject to the Montana Gold Lease are being referred to by us as the “Boulder Hill Project.” The description of the property underlying the Boulder Hill Project that is contained herein is the product of the Company’s due diligence review.
- 25 -
Location
The general location of the Boulder Hill is indentified on the map below:
The Boulder Hill Project consists of approximately 60 acres comprised of three unpatented mining claims (the “Claims”) and an option to acquire certain rights under a contiguous lease with the State of Montana (Montana State Metalliferrous Gold Lease M-1974-06, the “Montana Gold Lease”) of approximately 114 acres located in Lincoln County, Montana. The property underlying the Claims and Montana Gold Lease lie in Township 29 North, Range 27 West, Montana Principal Meridian.
Land Status
Mineral rights on federal unpatented lode mining claims can be held indefinitely as long as the annual claim maintenance payments are current. At the present time, all of the required annual claim maintenance payments for the Claims have been made. The initial term on the Montana Gold Lease is for a ten-year period commencing on August 21, 2006, which may be renewable. The total area consisting of the Boulder Hill Project consists of approximately 174 acres. The total annual property maintenance costs due the state and federal government for the Boulder Hill Project is currently about $800/year.
History
The Boulder Hill Project contains several historic prospect pits and adits, which we believe were excavated in the late 19th century or early 20th century. Bright white quartz veins with low gold contents attracted early prospectors to the Boulder Hill Project area. In 1995, during a regional reconnaissance conducted by Jim Ebisch, these original mine workings were sampled. Quartz vein samples from these historic workings were found in 1995 to contain low-grade gold; however, one prospect pit further down the hill, also originally sampled at the same time, contained altered, siliceous metasediments that have a far different appearance than that of the bright white quartz veins. These metasediments, poorly exposed in the prospect pit, were found to contain gold grades much higher than that of the bright white quartz veins that attracted historic attention. We have not independently verified this information and can provide no assurance that any of our exploration work will result in similar results.
- 26 -
Regional Geology
The Boulder Hill Project is located within an area that includes the Belt Basin of the northwestern United States. Mineralization is hosted by the Precambrian Age Prichard Formation. The Boulder Hill Project lies near the crest of the Wolf Creek Anticline. The rocks exposed in that area are thought to belong to the G Member of the Prichard Formation. The Boulder Hill Project also lies immediately south of the Wolf Creek Fault, an important regional structure.
Boulder Hill Project Geology
Structurally the Boulder Hill Project is on the downthrown side of the Wolf Creek fault, and the project is considered by us as a stratiform sulfide target within the Middle Prichard Formation in Lincoln County, Montana
Our exploration plan at the Boulder Hill Project is designed to target what are believed to be Stratabound gold occurrences. Poorly-exposed gold mineralization found during the aforementioned reconnaissance exploration at the Boulder Hill Project within a prospect trench in 1995 is in contrast to the bright white quartz veins that were of historic interest. The rocks containing the gold mineralization found in 1995 consisted of silicified, sericitized, and pyritic to locally gossanous metasediments. We have not independently verified this historical information and can provide no assurance that any of our exploration work will result in similar results.
Project Infrastructure, Access and Power
The Boulder Hill Project is located in an area of low-lying hills, away from residential areas. A paved road, a power line, and a railway line passes within one mile of the subject area. An improved gravel road passes by northwestern portion of the property. Skid trails lead to the area where the gold mineralization was found during the 1995 exploration and a subsequent follow-up site visit in 2008 by Mr. Ebisch. There are no accessible tunnels or shafts on the subject area. The source of water for proposed drilling is currently uncertain, which may require initially hauling of water for drilling purposes.
Reserves
There are no established probable or proven reserves on the property underlying the Boulder Hill Project. Our due diligence activities have been limited, and to a great extent, have relied upon information provided to us by third parties. We have not established and cannot provide any assurance that any of the properties underlying the Boulder Hill Project contain adequate, if any, amounts of gold or other mineral reserves to make mining economically feasible to recover those gold or other mineral reserves, or to make a profit in doing so.
Proposed Exploration Plan
Several phases of exploration work will be necessary to move forward this project. Each successive phase of work is contingent upon the results of previous phases. The first phase will require geological mapping and sampling. Concurrent with this work, excavation of trenches on the underlying property will be necessary to expose and sample mineralization of interest. Geophysics may also be done on the property if the mineralization found by trenching has characteristics that lend to detection by geophysical methods. The total cost of this work is estimated to be $49,500.
The second phase of work will involve limited drilling, consisting of 3-5 diamond drill holes. These will test for near-surface strata bound gold. The total cost of this work is estimated to be $214,500.
The third phase of work will involve the drilling of one-two deep drill holes, each with an estimated depth of 1,500 feet. These will test for deep strata bound gold close to the Wolf Creek Fault. The total cost of this work is estimated to be $338,000.
- 27 -
Our current cash on hand is insufficient to complete any of the activities set forth in our planned exploration program. We have postponed the commencement of any exploration and development program until such time that we are able to secure sufficient financing, however we continued review of historical records for revising the below plan in 2013. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in securing sufficient financing. Provided we are able to secure sufficient financing, we anticipate that we will incur the following costs for the next twelve months:
Proposed Exploration Budget
Stage 1 (Trenching and Geophysics)
Stage 2 (Shallow Drilling)
- 28 -
Stage 3 (Deep Drilling)
This exploration plan may change or be terminated depending on the results from each stage of exploration.We project that permitting activities will be preparedafter the initial 2013 site visits.
The Peru Property and Settlement and Mutual Release Agreement
We entered into a Mineral Right Option Agreement with Temasek on September 18, 2008, as amended and supplemented by Amendment No. 1 dated May 12, 2009 (“Amendment No. 1”), Amendment No. 2 dated February 3, 2010 (“Amendment No. 2”), and Amendment No. 3 dated June 25, 2010 (“Amendment No. 3”) (collectively, the “ Temasek Option Agreement”). Pursuant to the Temasek Option Agreement, we acquired from Temasek a fifty percent equity interest in Beardmore Holdings, Inc. (“Beardmore”) and had the option to acquire the remaining fifty percent equity interest in Beardmore from Temasek, which would have resulted in our ownership of one hundred percent of Beardmore’s equity. Beardmore indirectly holds, through its subsidiary Rio Santiago Minerales S.A.C., certain mineral rights (the “Mineral Rights”) underlying properties located in Peru.
Under the terms of Amendment No. 3, we would have increased our ownership interest in the Mineral Rights from fifty percent to one-hundred percent resulting in its acquisition of all of the outstanding capital stock of Beardmore, if we had fulfilled the following conditions (collectively the “Temasek Option Requirements”) within ten business days following the effective date of Amendment No. 3:
·
Completion of the exercise of options resulting in our acquisition of a fifty percent interest in the Mineral Rights through our acquisition of fifty percent of the outstanding capital stock of Beardmore;
·
Issuance to Temasek of a total of 11,000,000 shares of our common stock (of which 5,000,000 shares were previously issued to Temasek);
\
- 29 -
·
Payment to Temasek of US $250,000 (which such payment was acknowledged by Temasek to have been made in March 2010);
·
Issuance of a convertible note for US $250,000 (the “$250,000 Convertible Note”) payable to the order and the direction of Temasek (which was issued on June 25, 2010); and
·
Issuance of a convertible note for US $3,250,000 (the “$3,250,000 Convertible Note” and, collectively with the $250,000 Convertible Note, the “Convertible Notes”) payable to the order and the direction of Temasek (which was issued on June 25, 2010).
The $250,000 Convertible Note had a term of ninety days and accrued interest at a rate of 12% per annum. We failed to pay the principle and interest under the $250,000 Convertible Note upon maturity, which caused us to default on the $250,000 Convertible Note.
The $3,250,000 Convertible Note had a term of three years and accrued interest at a rate of 12% per annum. Interest was payable annually and the principal was to be paid upon maturity.
As of the date we were required to fulfill the Temasek Option Requirements under Amendment No. 3, we did not issue the 6,000,000 shares of our common stock to Temasek and defaulted on the $250,000 Convertible Note resulting from our failure to pay the principal plus interest on such note on its maturity date. This also resulted in the options to acquire the remaining fifty percent interest in the Mineral Rights (which would have resulted in our acquisition of a one hundred percent interest in the Mineral Rights) having lapsed as of July 5, 2010.
On September 21, 2011, we entered into a Settlement and Mutual Release Agreement (“Settlement Agreement”) with Temasek, which resulted in our relinquishment and transfer to Temasek of our fifty percent interest in the outstanding capital stock of Beardmore in exchange for Temasek releasing us from all of our outstanding obligations under the terms of the Temasek Option Agreement. By execution of the Settlement Agreement, we no longer held any interest, directly or indirectly, in the Mineral Rights.
Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, the $250,000 Convertible Note and the $3,250,000 Convertible Note were cancelled and we are no longer obligated to issue Temasek 6,000,000 shares of our common stock in exchange for our relinquishment and transfer to Temasek of our fifty percent interest in the outstanding capital stock of Beardmore. We are not entitled to recover any consideration previously paid to Temasek or any mineral property exploration expenditures incurred in connection with the exploration and development of the properties underlying the Mineral Rights. The Settlement Agreement included a mutual release of all claims arising out of or relating to the Option Agreement.
Skip Silver Prospect
The Company has staked two unpatented mining claims covering approximately forty acres in Montana in the vicinity of the Baltimore Silver Mine project. The property has no established reserves nor any history of production. The Company has not completed an initial geologic mapping nor a review of historical data on the project. The claims staked are part of ongoing work conducted in 2012 to identify potential mineral prospects for acquisition.
Location and Access
The property is approximately five miles from Boudler, Montana. Access is by unimproved county road.
- 30 -
Geology
The geology of the area is dominated by the monzonites of the Butte Batholith intruding into the older Elkhorn volcanics, consisting of green-gray welded tuffs and schists. East-westerly striking pyrite-galena bearing quartz veins have been deposited along or near to fault or shear zones in the area with some sericitic alteration. We do not know currently to what extent whether regional fault or shear zones extend onto this prospect.
Climate
Theclimate is temperate,and the elevation is estimated at 6,000 feet.
Metallurgy
There are no metaluurgical testing results available to the Company.
Reserves
There no established reserves on the property.
Prior Production History
There is no recorded prior production history.
Exploration Plans
The Company intends to follow-up on 2012 site visits and initial surveying conducted for filing the claims by preparing advanced geologic maps, soil sampling, and further review of regional and local geology.The Company intends to actively seek joint-venture partners for the project.We estimate 2013 exploration to begin in May 2013, and our estimated costs for exploration in 2013 range from $5,000 to $25,000 depending n financial resources available.
ITEM 3.