ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
The following discussion includes projections and/or other "forward-looking" information. Grace is subject to risks and other uncertainties that could cause its actual results to differ materially from any such projections or that could cause other forward-looking information to prove incorrect. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, see "Introduction and Overview - Projections and Other Forward-Looking Information" in Item 1 of Grace's 1998 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
OVERVIEW Sales Grace is primarily engaged in three specialty chemicals businesses on a worldwide basis. These businesses consist of catalysts and silica-based products (Grace Davison), specialty construction chemicals and building materials (Grace Construction Products), and container sealants, closure sealants, and coatings (Darex Container Products). Grace Davison contributes approximately 50% of Grace's annual total sales, Grace Construction Products, 34% of total sales, and Darex Container Products, 16% of total sales.
Sales and revenues of Grace's segments in 1998 were essentially flat with 1997 and 1996. Excluding the effect of foreign currency translation, sales increased over the prior year by 4.5% in 1998 and 4.9% in 1997. Sales growth was driven by strong construction activity in North America combined with growth in demand for Davison's refinery catalysts. Unfavorable foreign currency effects in Europe and the Asia Pacific region offset sales growth in North America.
The following table identifies the year over year increase or decrease in sales attributed to estimated changes in product volumes, product prices and/or mix, and the impact of foreign currency translation.
Earnings Grace reported a net loss from operations of $183.6 million, representing a loss of $2.46 per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 1998.
The fourth quarter of 1998 included several significant pretax provisions for restructuring, asbestos litigation, and environmental reserves, offset by a pretax insurance recovery of $57.6 million. Pretax income from 1998 underlying business performance, before the fourth quarter charges described above, was $144.2 million compared to $88.1 million and $120.7 million on a comparable basis in 1997 and 1996, respectively.
It is difficult to compare 1998 to prior years considering the operational changes Grace initiated with the separation of the Packaging Business in the first quarter of 1998 pursuant to the Spin-off and Merger described in Notes 1 and 3 of this Report. While the three operating segments were impacted by this transaction, Grace's corporate expenses, including overhead, interest and taxes, were the most affected.
During the three year period ending December 31, 1998, the Company initiated a number of business divestiture and cost management programs. These decisions have had and will continue to have a favorable impact on pretax operating income across geographic regions and business segments, as well as on corporate expenses. The objectives of these cost reduction and restructuring efforts have been to focus on core business operations, streamline manufacturing processes, and reduce general and administrative expenses, factory administration costs and noncore research and development expenses. As evidenced in the table below, these costs as a percent of sales have trended favorably over the past three years.
Costs as a % of Sales - Excluding Divested Businesses
The favorable trend in consolidated cost of goods sold and operating expenses during the three year period reflects the benefits achieved from production process efficiencies and reductions in raw material component costs.
As a specialty chemicals business, Grace is customer solution and application driven in meeting the technology requirements of its customers. Grace's specialty chemicals products are typically developed based on customer-defined performance criteria and supported by superior customer service. This marketing approach leads to Grace's ongoing investment in technical sales support and higher expenses for sales management than is typical of commodity chemical companies.
General and administrative expenses have trended favorably, as a percent of sales, during the period due to the significant reduction in the number and size of operating segments in the consolidated entity as described in Notes 1 and 3, thereby reducing resource requirements at the corporate level, and due to replacing the former long-term incentive plan with a program emphasizing stock option awards for management incentive purposes. General and administrative expenses are expected to continue to decline as a percent of sales with the implementation of the productivity assessment recommendations and headquarters relocation provided for in the fourth quarter of 1998.
Interest expense and related financing costs have declined based on lower average debt levels as a result of the $1,256.6 million cash transfer related to the Packaging Spin-off and Merger which was used to pay down substantially all outstanding debt (see Note 9 of this Report).
GRACE DAVISON
THE FOLLOWING DISCUSSIONS OF SALES AND EARNINGS OF THE OPERATING BUSINESS SEGMENTS EXCLUDE THE EFFECT OF CURRENCY TRANSLATION.
Sales Grace Davison is a leading global supplier of catalysts and silica products. Refining catalysts, representing approximately 58% of total Davison sales, include fluid cracking catalysts (FCC), which are used by petroleum refiners to convert distilled crude oil into transportation fuels and other petroleum-based products, and hydroprocessing catalysts, which upgrade heavy oils and remove certain impurities. Silica products and adsorbents (28% of Davison sales) are used in a wide variety of industrial and consumer applications. Polyolefin catalysts (11% of total Davison sales) are essential components in the manufacturing of polyethylene resins used in products such as plastic film, high performance plastic pipe and plastic household containers.
In 1998, refining catalyst sales increased 8.3% over 1997 as a result of record volume growth in Asia Pacific, combined with favorable price/mix variances, primarily due to new refinery business in China, Taiwan and Indonesia. Volume growth in Asia Pacific is expected to be lower in 1999 due to economic uncertainty in the region, lower refining margins, increased price competition, and the potential of government-imposed import restrictions in China.
Polyolefin catalyst sales increased 22.3% due to double-digit volume growth in North America and Asia Pacific, as a result of Grace Davison's strength in resin manufacturing technology. Grace Davison will add conventional polyolefin manufacturing capacity in North America by early 1999 in order to meet demand. In addition, Grace Davison brought a new organometallic polyolefin plant into commercial production in May 1998. If the profitability of the resin manufacturing industry continues to be stressed by new manufacturing capacity, pressure will likely be placed upon polyolefin catalysts pricing.
Silicas and adsorbents sales were flat due to problems in the North American dentifrice market, where consumer preferences favored toothpaste brands that did not contain Grace Davison silicas, and pricing pressures for insulated glass molecular sieves, especially in Europe. While Asia Pacific reported strength in the coatings and plastics market segments, the region's outlook is yielding mixed signals due to the economic and political situations in major countries and increased price competition.
In 1997, FCCs had a difficult year, with a decline in sales of 4.3% as compared to 1996, due to the loss of two customers and depressed refinery margins. Silicas and adsorbents sales increased 7.0% on volume growth in all geographic regions. The strength of the plastics industry continued to benefit Grace's worldwide sales of polyolefin catalysts, which increased 14.8% over 1996.
Earnings Pretax operating income of $107.5 million in 1998 improved 7.3% over $100.1 million in 1997. Gross margin improved $15.7 million due to increased manufacturing productivity. A reduction in general and administrative expenses, as a result of changes to employee incentive compensation programs, was more than offset by increased factory administration and depreciation expenses resulting from new manufacturing facilities brought on-line in 1998, and higher research and development costs. Restructuring costs of $3.5 million, recorded in the fourth quarter of 1998 for the severance of approximately 60 people, will reduce expenses in 1999 and beyond. In the fourth quarter of 1997, restructuring costs of $3.9 million were included in operating results for the termination of leases.
In 1997, pretax operating income decreased 9.8% to $100.1 million from $111.0 million in 1996. Unfavorable gross margin, due primarily to inventory adjustments and increased freight costs, coupled with increased costs related to employee incentive compensation programs, offset the favorable impact of cost reduction efforts and lower start-up costs associated with the new Kuantan, Malaysia facility. The 1996 results included $1.8 million in restructuring charges
for severance costs related to a worldwide program to streamline processes and reduce operating expenses.
GRACE CONSTRUCTION PRODUCTS
THE FOLLOWING DISCUSSIONS OF SALES AND EARNINGS OF THE OPERATING BUSINESS SEGMENTS EXCLUDE THE EFFECT OF CURRENCY TRANSLATION.
Sales Grace Construction Products is a leading supplier of specialty chemicals and building materials to the nonresidential (commercial and government) construction industry, and to a lesser extent, the residential construction industry. Specialty construction chemicals, which contribute approximately 58% of Grace Construction Products sales, add strength, control corrosion, and enhance the handling and application of concrete. Specialty building materials prevent water damage to structures and protect structural steel against collapse due to fire.
In 1998, sales of specialty construction chemicals were up 6.7% over 1997, with strong volumes in every region except Asia Pacific and favorable price/mix worldwide. Continued growth in new and value-added products contributed the majority of the sales increase. In parts of Asia, volumes declined due to canceled or delayed construction projects. Grace Construction Products continues to focus its efforts to take advantage of its position in the stronger economies and construction segments. The delay in 1998 of certain large projects is expected to benefit 1999 results. In addition, federal funding of the TEA -21 bill (Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century) in the United States and government economic stimulus packages in Asia are expected to drive increasing growth in the infrastructure segment. Sales of specialty building materials increased 5.0% with increased volumes in every region except Asia Pacific. Strength in new and value-added waterproofing products significantly contributed to this sales growth in 1998.
In 1997, increased volumes in all regions, as compared to 1996, reflected the introduction of new value-added products and increased market acceptance of existing value-added products. Sales of specialty construction chemicals increased 14.0% over 1996 primarily due to worldwide volume increases. Sales growth in Asia Pacific, which resulted from infrastructure building activity, market share gains and penetration of value-added products, was partially offset in the second half of the year by economic downturns in the region. Sales of specialty building materials increased 7.6% over 1996 primarily due to volume increases in North America, supported by the overall strength of the U.S. economy and favorable weather conditions.
Earnings Pretax operating income was $61.8 million in 1998, as compared to $45.7 million in 1997. Gross margin increased $9.3 million compared to 1997, driven by sales increases and margin improvements from value-added product penetration and manufacturing cost reduction programs. The reduction in employee incentive compensation costs also contributed to the year-over-year earnings improvement. Fourth quarter 1998 results included restructuring costs of $1.3 million resulting from the implementation of a productivity effectiveness program. This program will reduce expenses in 1999 and beyond. Fourth quarter 1997 pretax operating income included a charge of $5.7 million to reduce the carrying value of certain equipment held for customer use.
Pretax operating income was $45.7 million in 1997, as compared to $42.6 million in 1996. The increase was primarily due to increased sales worldwide, improvements in manufacturing processes, production rates and material costs, as well as overhead cost containment efforts. Partially offsetting these improvements were an increase in costs related to employee incentive compensation programs and the fourth quarter 1997 charge discussed above.
DAREX CONTAINER PRODUCTS
THE FOLLOWING DISCUSSIONS OF SALES AND EARNINGS OF THE OPERATING BUSINESS SEGMENTS EXCLUDE THE EFFECT OF CURRENCY TRANSLATION.
Sales Darex Container Products is a leading global producer of can sealants, closure sealants, coatings for metal packaging, and other related products. Can sealants, which represent approximately 52% of Darex sales, hermetically seal beverage, food, and other cans; closure sealants (13% of sales) seal glass and plastic bottles and jars used in beverage and food applications; and coatings (19% of sales) protect metal packaging from corrosion and its contents from the influences of the metal.
Contributing to Darex's sales decline from 1997 to 1998 were the divestments of a niche segment of the coatings business in Europe (September 1997) and the can forming lubricants business in North America (May 1998), as well as the termination of an alliance in Brazil (May 1997). In 1997, these businesses contributed $8.2 million in sales. Excluding the impact of these decisions, sales were essentially flat before currency translation.
Can sealant sales declined 1.3%, as positive price/mix variances in North America were not enough to offset the continued economic challenges in Asia Pacific, a poor harvest in Europe, and the effects of the weakened economy in Brazil. Closure sealant sales increased 4.5% primarily on strong growth and positive price/mix variances in Asia Pacific. Sales growth in Asia was mainly due to increased customer demand in Japan for food applications and market share gains in the Philippines. Coatings sales increased 5.6%, with strong growth in Latin America and Asia Pacific. These gains more than offset a decline in Europe due to the divestment of a niche segment of the coatings business, which
contributed $1.8 million in sales in 1997. Sales of machinery and cover/drum compounds in Asia Pacific declined due to less capital investment and construction activity resulting from continued poor economic conditions in the region. In addition, Europe reported lower volumes of these same products due to customer rationalization of facilities and a poor tomato harvest. The ongoing trends of industry consolidation and cost reduction throughout Darex's customer base, driven by economic uncertainty and price competition, continue to influence Darex's financial results.
The increase in sales from 1996 to 1997 was attributable to the August 1996 acquisition of a manufacturer of can coatings and closure sealants in Mexico. Excluding this acquisition, 1997 sales were slightly lower than 1996. Can sealant sales declined 2.7%, as price/mix in Europe was negatively affected by continued customer consolidation efforts. In addition, volumes declined in Latin America due to poor economic conditions in Venezuela and Brazil, coupled with a decline in fish canning on the west coast of South America as a result of poor weather conditions.
Earnings Darex Container Products' pretax operating income of $16.3 million was down $7.1 million in 1998 as compared to 1997. The earnings decline was due primarily to the negative impacts of currency translation ($2.5 million) and restructuring and asset impairment charges.
In the fourth quarter of 1998, Darex recorded $9.0 million in restructuring and asset impairment charges. The charges were primarily comprised of severance costs to cover a net headcount reduction of approximately 165 employees and some rationalization of facilities throughout the world. In the fourth quarter of 1997, Darex recorded $.9 million in severance costs related to staff reductions resulting from the Spin-off and Merger (see Notes 1 and 3). In addition to the restructuring and asset impairment charges recorded in the fourth quarter of both years, Darex also recorded $.7 million of restructuring charges in the second quarter of 1997. The charge was primarily composed of employee termination costs resulting from the restructuring of the Packaging Business from a group of regional units into an integrated global organization.
Excluding the restructuring and asset impairment charges in both periods, Darex's earnings were essentially flat. Similar to Grace's consolidated results, general and administrative expense related to employee incentive compensation programs declined. Headcount reductions and other cost reduction actions implemented in late 1997 continued to lower operating expenses. In addition, aggressive inventory management during the year resulted in a favorable LIFO adjustment in the fourth quarter of 1998. However, these earnings improvements were offset by declines in gross margin on lower sales.
In 1997, Darex Container Products reported pretax operating income of $23.4 million, as compared to $22.0 million in 1996. In 1996, Darex recorded $9.5 million in restructuring and asset impairment charges. The restructuring charge was $5.4 million and related to a worldwide program to streamline processes and reduce operating expenses. The asset impairment charge was $4.1 million. Excluding the restructuring and asset impairment charges in both periods, Darex's earnings decreased from $31.5 million in 1996 to $25.0 million in 1997. A significant portion of the decrease can be attributed to the currency devaluation experienced in Southeast Asia, higher general and administrative expenses related to increased employee incentive compensation program costs, and lower sales. In addition, operating income was negatively affected by raw material price increases, write-downs of obsolete inventory in Latin America and Asia Pacific, and a change in product mix toward lower margin products.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
PACKAGING BUSINESS As discussed in Notes 1 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Spin-off and Merger were completed on March 31, 1998. The 1998 loss from discontinued operations includes $32.6 million ($28.3 million after-tax) of costs related to the Packaging Business transaction and $8.4 million ($5.5 million after-tax) for a related pension plan curtailment loss.
In the first quarter of 1998, sales and revenues of the Packaging Business increased 2.0% compared to the 1997 period driven by volume increases. Pretax operating income of the Packaging Business decreased 14.3% in the first quarter of 1998 compared to 1997, as the increase in sales was more than fully offset by higher manufacturing costs as a result of higher depreciation and other expenses related to capital expenditures made in prior years, as well as higher product introduction costs. In 1997, sales and revenues of the Packaging Business increased 5.6% as a result of volume increases to $1.8 billion, compared to $1.7 billion in 1996. Pretax operating income of the Packaging Business increased 15.2% in 1997, primarily due to the sales increases, favorable manufacturing rates, continued efforts to reduce operating costs and a shift toward sales of higher margin products.
HEALTH CARE During 1996, Grace completed the separation of NMC and sold its Amicon separations science business. 1996 income from discontinued operations of $2.7 billion includes income of $24.8 million ($60.3 million pretax) from health care operations, a tax-free gain of approximately $2.5 billion on the NMC transaction, and a gain of $40.0 million ($70.4 million pretax) on the sale of Amicon.
COCOA In December 1996, Grace entered into a definitive agreement to sell its cocoa business to Archer-Daniels-Midland Company (ADM). As a result, in the fourth quarter of 1996, Grace reassessed its estimated loss on the divestment of the business and reversed previously recorded provisions of $31.9 million (net of an applicable tax effect of $18.1 million) in discontinued operations. In February 1997, Grace sold its cocoa business to ADM for total proceeds of $477.6 million (including debt assumed by the buyer), subject to adjustment. The pretax and after-tax effects of the divestment were consistent with prior estimates and were charged against previously established reserves. In October 1997, ADM paid Grace an additional $7.9 million (including $.4 million of interest income) in settlement of the purchase price adjustment. In anticipation of this settlement, in the third quarter of 1997, Grace reversed previously recorded provisions of $12.4 million (net of an applicable tax effect of $6.6 million) in discontinued operations.
OTHER In the fourth quarter of 1996, Grace classified TEC Systems as a discontinued operation and recorded a provision of $4.6 million (net of an applicable tax benefit of $2.4 million) related to TEC Systems' anticipated net operating results through the expected date of divestment, as well as the loss anticipated on the divestment. In August 1997, Grace sold TEC Systems to Sequa Corporation for total proceeds of $16.1 million. The loss on the sale and the 1997 operating losses were charged against previously established reserves. In May 1996, Grace completed the sale of the transgenic plant business of its Agracetus subsidiary to the Monsanto Company for $150.0 million, resulting in a pretax gain of $129.0 million ($79.4 million after-tax).
FINANCIAL CONDITION
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES During 1998, Grace's continuing operating activities used pretax cash of $77.4 million, a decrease of $16.5 million compared to 1997. The decrease was primarily due to improvements in operating earnings. It also included net proceeds of $37.0 million from the sale of receivables, as discussed below. The decrease in 1998 was partially offset by an increase of approximately $60.0 million in long-term incentive compensation disbursements as compared to 1997. The long-term incentive compensation programs have been discontinued going forward, and future disbursements for existing plans will total less than $5.0 million over the next two years. In 1997, Grace's continuing operating activities used pretax cash of $93.9 million, an increase of $63.1 million compared to 1996, which was principally the result of higher expenditures for the defense and disposition of asbestos-related litigation, net of amounts received from certain insurance carriers in connection with such litigation. Significant components of Grace's cash flow from operating activities are discussed in more detail below.
Notes and accounts receivable decreased in 1998 primarily as a result of Grace's sale of certain trade receivables. Grace entered into an agreement to sell, on an ongoing basis, a pool of its trade accounts receivable to a wholly owned bankruptcy-remote special purpose subsidiary (the "SPS") of Grace. Accordingly, certain strategic business units transfer their North American trade accounts receivable to the SPS. The SPS has sold and, subject to certain conditions, may from time to time sell an undivided fractional ownership interest in the pool of receivables to a multi-seller receivables company (the "conduit"). Upon sale of receivables, the SPS holds a subordinated retained interest in the receivables. The estimated fair value of the subordinated interest, excluding allowance for doubtful accounts, was $65.1 million at December 31, 1998 which is included in other current assets. Under the terms of the agreement, new receivables are added to the pool as collections reduce previously sold receivables. Grace services, administers and collects the receivables on behalf of the conduit. Proceeds of approximately $37.0 million were received as of December 31, 1998 from the sale of receivables and Grace has recorded a corresponding net loss on sale of $.5 million in 1998 from the related sale to the conduit. The proceeds were used for the reduction of other short-term obligations.
Cash payments for restructuring activities totaled $22.1 million, $68.3 million and $74.4 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The majority of the employee termination costs of $23.8 million included in the restructuring reserve of $33.3 million as of December 31, 1998 is expected to be paid over the next 18 months.
In 1998, Grace recorded a noncash provision for asbestos-related litigation (net of expected insurance reimbursement) of $376.1 million. Actual net cash disbursements related to the disposition of asbestos-related litigation were $164.7 million, $74.1 million and $2.1 million for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Included in this net cash outflow were $74.0 million, $68.7 million and $184.5 million in settlements received from certain insurance carriers in connection with such litigation for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Expenditures for defense and disposition of asbestos-related litigation in 1998 were impacted by two large settlements (one for personal injury and one for property damage settled in the first quarter of 1998).
Net pretax cash provided by discontinued operations reflects that the Packaging Business was included in the consolidated results for the first three months of 1998 while a full year of Packaging Business operating results were included in 1997 and 1996. Tax refunds in 1998 exceeded refunds in 1997 by approximately $65.0 million. Tax refunds in 1997 were similar to 1996.
Cash flows used for investing activities in 1998 were $108.2 million, compared to cash provided of $370.1 million in 1997 and $2.1 billion in 1996. The 1998 use of cash was primarily due to capital expenditures, the most significant of which were over $60 million in Grace Davison. Net cash inflows were impacted by proceeds from divestment of businesses totaling $695.5 million in 1997, primarily related to the cocoa business, and $2.7 billion in 1996, primarily related to NMC.
Total Grace capital expenditures for 1998 were $100.9 million, substantially all of which was directed toward the three specialty chemicals businesses. In 1997, Grace made capital expenditures of $258.7 million, of which nearly half related to the divested Packaging Business. Management continues to focus on reducing the level of capital expenditures with the objective of $100.0 million for 1999.
Net cash provided by financing activities in 1998 primarily related to the Packaging Spin-off and Merger described in Notes 1 and 3. In connection with the Packaging Business transaction, Grace received $1,256.6 million in cash, which was used to repay substantially all of its debt. On March 31, 1998, Grace used $600.0 million of the cash transfer to repay bank borrowings. On April 1, 1998, Grace repaid $611.3 million principal amount of Notes pursuant to a tender offer, $3.5 million principal amount of MTNs and $6.0 million of sundry indebtedness. As a result of this extinguishment of debt, Grace incurred an after-tax charge of $35.3 million for premiums paid in excess of the Notes' principal amounts and other costs related to the purchase of the Notes and MTNs (including the costs of settling related interest rate swap agreements). These costs are presented as an extraordinary item in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Net cash used for financing activities in 1997 was $621.3 million, primarily relating to reductions of debt, the repurchase of 6.3 million shares of stock, and the payment of dividends, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options. Total debt was $113.4 million at December 31, 1998, a decrease of $958.9 million from December 31, 1997.
Grace has targeted a ratio of debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, restructuring and asbestos charges and gains on sales of businesses) of less than 1.0. This ratio represents a long-term target that may be exceeded to meet specific needs on a short-term basis. At December 31, 1998, the debt/EBITDA ratio was .37.
At December 31, 1998, Grace had committed borrowing facilities totaling $850.0 million, consisting of $600.0 million under a 364-day facility expiring in May 1999 (extendible for successive 364-day periods at the discretion of Grace and the lenders) and $250.0 million under a long-term facility expiring in May 2003. These facilities also support the issuance of commercial paper and bank borrowings, of which $75.0 million was outstanding at December 31, 1998. The aggregate amount of net unused and unreserved borrowings under short-term and long-term facilities at December 31, 1998 was $775.0 million.
In April 1998, the Company's Board of Directors approved a program to repurchase up to 20% of the Company's outstanding shares in the open market (approximately 15,165,000 shares). Through December 31, 1998, the Company had acquired 5,149,100 shares of common stock for $83.1 million under the program (an average price per share of $16.14). Cash payments for settled share repurchases were $82.2 million through December 31, 1998.
In 1997, Grace substantially completed a share repurchase program initiated in 1996 by acquiring 6,306,300 shares of common stock for $335.9 million, or an average price of $53.26 per share. In 1996, Grace acquired 21,058,500 shares of common stock for $1,319.3 million, or an average price of $62.65 per share. Prior to year-end 1997 and 1996, Grace retired substantially all of the treasury stock acquired in those years using the cost method. Average prices per share for shares repurchased in 1997 and 1996 are not comparable to 1998 due to the Packaging Business transaction (see Notes 1 and 3).
Grace believes that cash flow generated from future operations and committed borrowing facilities will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements for the foreseeable future.
ASBESTOS-RELATED MATTERS Grace is a defendant in lawsuits relating to previously sold asbestos-containing products. In 1998, Grace paid $164.7 million for the defense and disposition of asbestos-related property damage and personal injury litigation, net of amounts received under settlements with insurance carriers. During the fourth quarter of 1998, Grace recorded a noncash pretax charge of $576.9 million ($375.0 million after-tax), primarily to reflect the estimated costs of defending against and disposing of personal injury claims expected to be filed through 2039. The charge to the litigation reserve was offset by an adjustment for expected recoveries from insurance carriers of $200.8 million ($130.5 million after-tax). The balance sheet at December 31, 1998 includes total amounts due from insurance carriers of $443.0 million which includes notes receivable of $20.3 million ($18.0 million after discounts) for amounts to be received through 2001, pursuant to settlement agreements with insurance carriers.
Grace has periodically evaluated projections for the ultimate asbestos personal injury liability and has determined the change in accrual period from "5-years forward" estimates to a full cost period extending to 2039 for personal injury indemnity and defense costs based on experience and trends in litigation. Grace continues to accrue for property damage cases currently asserted, as in the past.
Although the total amount to be paid in 1999 with respect to asbestos-related claims (after giving effect to payments to be received from insurance carriers) cannot be precisely estimated, Grace expects that the net expenditure for 1999 will range from $35.0-$55.0 million (pretax) to defend against and dispose of such claims. The 1998 expenditures included a 1997 property damage settlement partially paid in 1998 and personal injury group settlements resolved in 1997 and paid in 1998. The amounts with respect to the probable cost of defending against and disposing of asbestos-related claims and probable recoveries from insurance carriers represent estimates and are on an undiscounted basis; the outcomes of such claims cannot be predicted with certainty.
In May 1997, the Texas legislature adopted legislation that had the effect of making it more difficult for out-of-state residents to file asbestos personal injury claims in Texas state courts. Although the rate of filing asbestos claims in Texas during the second half of 1997 was lower than that of the first half of 1997, and decreased by 70% in 1998, the effect of this legislation on Grace's ultimate exposure with respect to its asbestos-related cases and claims cannot be predicted with certainty.
See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information concerning asbestos-related lawsuits and claims.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Grace is subject to loss contingencies resulting from extensive and evolving federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, discharge and disposition of hazardous wastes and other materials. Worldwide expenses of continuing operations related to the operation and maintenance of environmental facilities and the disposal of hazardous and nonhazardous wastes totaled $38.2 million in 1998, $35.8 million in 1997 and $32.7 million in 1996. Such costs are estimated to be $35-$40 million in both 1999 and 2000. In addition, worldwide capital expenditures for continuing operations relating to environmental protection totaled $6.3 million in 1998, compared to $7.2 million in 1997 and $10.4 million in 1996. Capital expenditures to comply with environmental initiatives in future years are estimated to be approximately $9.0 million in 1999 and $6.0 million in 2000. Grace also has incurred costs to remediate environmentally impaired sites. These costs were $37.7 million in 1998, $33.9 million in 1997 and $20.3 million in 1996. These amounts have been charged against previously established reserves. Future pretax cash outlays for remediation costs are expected to average $35 to $40 million over the next few years. Expenditures have been funded from internal sources of cash and are not expected to have a significant effect on liquidity.
Grace accrues for anticipated costs associated with investigatory and remediation efforts where an assessment has indicated that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. In the fourth quarter of 1998, Grace recorded a net pretax gain of $38.2 million ($24.8 million after-tax) related to environmental issues. Grace entered into a settlement with one of its insurance carriers which provided for a $57.6 million lump-sum cash payment to Grace for previously incurred costs related to environmental remediation. Netted against this gain is a $19.4 million ($12.6 million after-tax) charge to reflect a change in the environmental remediation strategy for a particular site. It is expected that the cash associated with this incremental charge will be spent over the next several years. At December 31, 1998, Grace's liability for environmental investigatory and remediation costs related to continuing and discontinued operations totaled $240.5 million, as compared to $258.8 million at December 31, 1997.
Grace's environmental liabilities are reassessed whenever circumstances become better defined or remediation efforts and their costs can be better estimated. These liabilities are evaluated quarterly, based on currently available information, including the progress of remedial investigation, the current status of discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the method and extent of remediation at each site, existing technology, prior experience in contaminated site remediation and the apportionment of costs among potentially responsible parties. As some of these issues are decided (the outcomes of which are subject to uncertainties) or new sites are assessed and costs can be reasonably estimated, Grace will continue to review and analyze the need for adjustments to the recorded accruals. However, Grace believes that it is adequately reserved for all probable and estimable environmental exposures.
Grace is in litigation with certain excess insurance carriers regarding the applicability of the carriers' policies to environmental remediation costs. The outcome of such litigation, as well as the amounts of any recoveries that Grace may receive, is presently uncertain. Accordingly, Grace has not recorded a receivable with respect to such insurance coverage.
YEAR 2000 COMPUTER SYSTEMS COMPLIANCE
OVERVIEW Grace has reviewed its Year 2000 compliance efforts by business segment. Each business segment and Grace Corporate has appointed a project leader to coordinate a comprehensive review of all systems used by Grace to determine to what extent Grace may be affected by the failure of its systems to be Year 2000 compliant. In addition, the project leader for Grace Corporate also functions as Grace's overall project director, reporting directly to the chief executive officer.
Grace is reviewing both its information technology ("IT") and non-information technology ("non-IT") systems for Year 2000 compliance. IT systems include hardware, infrastructure, local and wide area networks, software, application systems, electronic data exchange and interfaces. Non-IT systems cover process control and manufacturing support equipment, laboratory systems, instruments and scales, telecommunications, and facility and utility support systems. Non-IT systems include systems containing date dependent software as well as embedded date dependent chip technology. Grace is targeting to achieve Year 2000 compliance for all of its critical IT and non-IT systems by mid-1999.
GRACE'S CURRENT STATE OF YEAR 2000 READINESS Inventory Grace has completed an inventory of its IT and non-IT systems that could potentially be affected by the Year 2000 issue for each of its business segments and Grace Corporate, with the exception of three joint venture operations and a few small sales offices which will be completed during March 1999. All inventoried systems have been prioritized as being either critical or non-critical. A critical system is one where failure to be Year 2000 compliant may have a material adverse effect on health and safety, the environment or on Grace's financial condition or results of operations. A non-critical system is one where failure to be Year 2000 compliant could produce brief business interruptions or system failures that may be remedied promptly but are not reasonably likely to have any such material adverse effect.
Compliance Grace expected to have test plans in place to determine the compliance of all critical items potentially affected by the Year 2000 issue and to have completed testing for compliance of these items by the end of February 1999. As of February 28, 1999, 60% of the critical inventoried items are known to be Year 2000 compliant. Of the remaining critical items, 28% are known to be non-compliant and the compliance status of the remaining 12% of critical items had yet to be determined. Grace expects to complete the test plans by the end of March 1999.
For non-IT systems, Grace's most significant Year 2000 exposure is with the process control systems that control the major Grace Davison plants. Grace has commissioned the vendor that supplies approximately 80% of the primary digital control systems for all Grace Davison plants worldwide to perform a Year 2000 analysis of such systems. The assessment results for all of the North American plants indicate that the hardware and the system operating and application software associated with these systems have no significant Year 2000 problems. The data collection and assessment for the international plants is currently in process.
Grace Construction Products' facilities primarily utilize a batch process approach for manufacturing and have limited automated process controls that may be directly impacted by Year 2000 issues. Darex Container Products has more than 20 manufacturing facilities worldwide and certain facilities have automated process controls. A review of all critical process control systems for both Grace Construction Products and Darex Container Products for Year 2000 compliance is expected to be completed by the end of March 1999.
Grace is also contacting its key customers and vendors (including telecommunications and utility providers, banks and governmental agencies) in an effort to ascertain their compliance status. Grace expects to complete the assessment of the Year 2000 status of its key customers and vendors by the end of April 1999.
Remediation and Testing Grace targeted to have remediation plans (including validation testing) in place for all critical IT and non-IT systems that are shown to be non-compliant by the end of February 1999, and to have completed the remediation of all such systems by mid-1999. Although the target of having documented remediation plans in place by the end of February will be achieved for the majority of the critical items, the effort will not be fully complete until the end of March 1999. The target of achieving full remediation of all critical items remains on track for mid-1999. Remediation for non-critical systems will take place throughout 1999 and into 2000. Grace will have contingency plans in place for those non-critical systems that have not been remediated by the end of 1999. Grace will primarily use internal resources to validate the remediation procedures as they relate to critical IT and non-IT systems.
A major component of Grace's IT remediation activity is in place as a result of the conversion of its financial and certain operational support systems to programs using software of SAP America, Inc. (SAP), which has represented that its systems used by Grace are Year 2000 compliant. Unrelated to its Year 2000 efforts, Grace commenced this project in 1995. Grace Construction Products and Darex Container Products have completed the implementation of the SAP software in North America and many countries throughout the rest of the world, and expect to complete the implementation in the remaining countries by mid-1999.
Grace Davison is implementing SAP in conjunction with Grace Construction Products and Darex Container Products in Asia Pacific and Latin America, respectively. In North America and Europe, Grace Davison will not convert to SAP until after December 31, 1999. Until Grace Davison converts to SAP, it plans to install new software releases to upgrade existing systems and is contracting with outside programming services to resolve its Year 2000 issue in North America, with completion expected by the second quarter of 1999. In Europe, Grace Davison uses a largely internally developed software program, which is now supported and maintained by a third party, to provide its business and financial systems support. Grace has contracted with such third party to provide Grace Davison with a version of system software that is Year 2000 compliant.
COSTS Grace estimates that as of December 31, 1998, the total cost of its Year 2000 efforts is not expected to exceed $6.0 million, of which approximately $1.5 million has been spent to date. This amount excludes the cost of the SAP implementation since, despite being a critical component of the Grace Year 2000 remediation effort, this was a project that was already planned and was not accelerated due to Year 2000 issues. This amount also excludes internal costs, principally payroll costs of IT personnel which are not accounted for separately. No material IT or non-IT projects were delayed due to the Grace Year 2000 remediation effort.
CONTINGENCY PLANS Grace does not currently have in place any formal contingency plans to cover situations where systems are not remediated on a timely basis. Grace will be developing such contingency plans covering all critical IT and non-IT systems during the first and second quarters of 1999. Contingency plans will also be developed for some non-critical systems that will not be tested or remediated; such contingency plans will provide for the remediation of these systems in the event that they are affected by Year 2000 issues. Contingency plans will also address key customer and vendor non-compliance for Year 2000.
RISK If Grace fails to take any remedial action, Year 2000 non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of Grace. In particular, the failure of process control equipment, infrastructure such as utilities, or non-compliance by third parties could affect the ability of Grace to manufacture products and meet the demands of its customers. Also, the failure of Grace's wide area communications network could disrupt its SAP systems and financial reporting processes. However, Grace believes that the efforts being taken to ensure Year 2000 compliance outlined above, together with contingency planning, will be effective to minimize interruptions or loss of business, or environmental, health and safety risks.
The foregoing Year 2000 discussion is based on management's current evaluation using available information. Factors that might cause material changes include, but are not limited to, the readiness of third parties and Grace's ability to respond to unforeseen Year 2000 complications.
THE EURO
Effective January 1, 1999, eleven of the fifteen member countries of the European Union adopted one common currency known as the euro. Grace's operating business segments affected by the euro conversion established plans to address the issues raised by the euro currency conversion. These issues included, among other things, the impact of one currency on pricing and the need to adapt computer and financial systems and certain business processes to accommodate euro-denominated transactions.
The Company's financial systems and business processes accommodate multiple currencies. Grace's plans involve conversion by modifications to current systems at a nominal cost or completion of the implementation of the new SAP system software in Europe. Grace will consider the change in functional currency for the eleven member countries by the year 2000. Due to numerous uncertainties, Grace cannot reasonably estimate the effects that European conversion to one common currency will have on pricing for products or suppliers costs and the resulting impact, if any, on the results of operations, financial position or liquidity of its European businesses, but it is not expected to have a material adverse effect on Grace's consolidated financial position or results of operations. Grace's diversification of production sites and product lines for its operating businesses should mitigate any significant adverse impact resulting from the euro conversion.
ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
In March 1998, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) issued Statement of Position (SOP) 98-1, "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use." This standard requires capitalization of certain internal-use computer software costs. SOP 98-1, effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1998, was adopted by the Company January 1, 1999. The Company's current policy regarding the treatment of these costs is substantially consistent with SOP 98-1; therefore, adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements.
In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." SFAS No. 133, which is effective for all fiscal quarters of fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999, requires an entity to recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and measure those instruments at fair value. At December 31, 1998, the Company did not hold or issue any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Schedule II
W. R. GRACE & CO. AND SUBSIDIARIES VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES (in millions)
FOR THE YEAR 1998
* Consists of additions and deductions applicable to businesses acquired, disposals of businesses, bad debt write-offs, foreign currency translation, reclassifications (including the deconsolidation of amounts relating to discontinued operations) and miscellaneous other adjustments.
EXHIBIT 12
W. R. GRACE & CO. AND SUBSIDIARIES COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES AND COMBINED FIXED CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS (a) (in millions, except ratios) (Unaudited)
(a) Grace's preferred stocks were retired in 1996; see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (b) For each period with an income tax provision, the preferred stock dividend requirements have been increased to an amount representing the pretax earnings required to cover such requirements based on Grace's effective tax rate. (c) Certain amounts have been restated to conform to the 1998 presentation. (d) Includes a pretax provision of $376.1 for asbestos-related liabilities and insurance coverage; $21.0 relating to restructuring costs and asset impairments, offset by a pretax gain of $38.2 for the receipt of insurance proceeds related to environmental matters, partially offset by a charge to reflect a change in the environmental remediation strategy for a particular site. (e) Includes a pretax gain of $103.1 on sales of businesses, offset by a pretax provision of $47.8 for restructuring costs and asset impairments. (f) Includes a pretax gain of $326.4 on sales of businesses, offset by pretax provisions of $229.1 for asbestos-related liabilities and insurance coverage and $34.7 for restructuring costs and asset impairments. (g) Includes pretax provisions of $275.0 for asbestos-related liabilities and insurance coverage; $151.3 relating to restructuring costs, asset impairments and other activities; $77.0 for environmental liabilities at former manufacturing sites; and $30.0 for corporate governance activities. (h) Includes a pretax provision of $316.0 relating to asbestos-related liabilities and insurance coverage. (i) As a result of the losses incurred for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1995 and 1994, Grace was unable to fully cover the indicated fixed charges.