ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Properties that we owned as of December 31, 1998, are divided into two operating divisions. We have broken down these two operating divisions into thirty identifiable markets. We have provided this breakdown for external reporting purposes only. It reflects the key markets of interest to our stockholders and does not reflect how we are operationally managed. Segment information related to our operations can be found in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
As of December 31, 1998, we owned 582 industrial buildings, representing an aggregate of 56.6 million rentable square feet, principally warehouse distribution properties, which were 96.0% leased, and the 38 retail centers, representing an aggregate of 7.0 million rentable square feet, principally grocer-anchored community shopping centers, which were 94.6% leased. During the year ended December 31, 1998, no individual industrial or retail tenant accounted for greater than 2% of rental revenues or total square feet. As of December 31, 1998, the largest industrial tenant accounted for only 1.0% and 0.7% of industrial base rent and total base rent, respectively. As of December 31, 1998, the largest retail tenant accounted for only 4.2% and 1.0% of retail base rent and total base rent, respectively.
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTIES
At December 31, 1998, we owned 582 industrial buildings aggregating approximately 56.6 million rentable square feet, located in 26 markets nationwide. The Industrial Properties accounted for $247.2 million, or 75.7%, of our annualized base rent derived from the Properties as of December 31, 1998. The Industrial Properties were 96.0% leased to over 1600 tenants as of the same date, the largest of which accounted for no more than 1.0% of our annualized base rent from the Industrial Properties.
Property Characteristics. The Industrial Properties, which consist primarily of warehouse distribution facilities suitable for single or multiple tenants, are typically comprised of multiple buildings (an average of five) and generally range between 300,000 and 600,000 rentable square feet, averaging 475,000 rentable square feet per Property. The following table identifies characteristics of our typical industrial buildings:
Lease Terms. The Industrial Properties are typically subject to lease on a "triple net basis," defined as leases in which tenants pay their proportionate share of real estate taxes, insurance and operating costs, or subject to leases on a "modified gross basis," defined as leases in which tenants pay expenses over certain threshold levels. Lease terms typically range from three to ten years, with an average of seven years, excluding renewal options. The majority of the industrial leases do not include renewal options.
Overview of Major Target Markets. The Industrial Properties are concentrated in national hub distribution markets, such as Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth, Los Angeles, Northern New Jersey, and the San Francisco Bay Area, because we believe their strategic location, transportation network and infrastructure, and large consumer and manufacturing bases support strong demand for industrial space. According to statistics published by CB Commercial/Torto Wheaton Research, the six national hub markets listed above are the nation's largest warehouse markets and, as of December 31, 1998, comprised 38.8% of the warehouse inventory of the 53 industrial markets tracked by them. According to statistics published by CB Commercial/Torto Wheaton Research, as of December 31, 1998, the combined population of these markets was approximately 40.3 million, and the amount of per capita warehouse space was 19.2% above the average for those 53 industrial markets.
Within these metropolitan areas, the Industrial Properties are concentrated in in-fill locations (which are characterized by limited new construction opportunities due to high population densities and low levels of available land that could be developed into competitive industrial or retail properties) within established, relatively large submarkets (markets within a metropolitan area in which the competitive environment for one or more property types is largely dependent upon the supply of such property type in such market rather than the supply of such property type in other portions of such metropolitan area) which we believe should provide a higher rate of occupancy and rent growth than properties located elsewhere. These in-fill locations are typically near major air cargo facilities, seaports and convenient to major highways and rail lines, are proximate to a diverse labor pool, and have limited land available for new construction. There is typically broad demand for industrial space in these centrally located submarkets due to a diverse mix of industries and types of industrial uses, including warehouse distribution, light assembly and manufacturing. We generally avoid locations at the periphery of metropolitan areas where there are fewer supply constraints. Small metropolitan areas or cities without a heavy concentration of warehouse activity typically have few, if any, supply-constrained locations (those areas typified by significant population densities, a limited number of
existing industrial tenants and a low availability of land which could be developed into competitive space for additional industrial tenants).
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY SUMMARY
As of December 31, 1998, the 582 industrial buildings were diversified across 26 markets nationwide. The average age of the Industrial Properties is 12 years (since the Property was built or substantially renovated), which we believe should result in lower operating costs over the long term. The following table represents Properties in which we own a fee simple interest or a controlling interest (consolidated), and excludes Properties in which we only own a non-controlling interest (unconsolidated).
- --------------- (1) Annualized base rent represents the monthly contractual amount under existing leases at December 31, 1998, multiplied by 12. This amount excludes expense reimbursements and rental abatements.
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY TENANT INFORMATION
Largest Industrial Property Tenants. Our 25 largest Industrial Property tenants by annualized base rent are set forth in the table below.
- --------------- (1) Tenant(s) may be a subsidiary of or an entity affiliated with the named tenant.
(2) Computed as aggregate rentable square feet divided by the aggregate leased square feet of the Industrial Properties.
(3) Computed as annualized base rent divided by the aggregate annualized base rent of the Industrial Properties.
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY LEASE EXPIRATIONS
The following table summarizes the lease expirations for the Industrial Properties for leases in place as of December 31, 1998, without giving effect to the exercise of renewal options or termination rights, if any, at or prior to the scheduled expirations.
- --------------- (1) Schedule includes executed leases that commence after December 31, 1998. Schedule excludes leases expiring prior to January 1, 1999.
(2) Calculated as monthly rent at expiration multiplied by 12.
(3) Rent per square foot is calculated by dividing the annualized base rent of expiring leases by the square footage expiring in any given year.
(4) Includes leases encompassing 606,275 square feet which are on a month-to-month basis.
(5) Represents percentage of total square footage of expiring leases.
RETAIL PROPERTIES
At December 31, 1998, we owned 38 retail centers aggregating approximately 7.0 million rentable square feet, 34 of which are grocer-anchored. The Retail Properties accounted for $79.2 million, or 24.3%, of annualized base rent derived from the Properties as of December 31, 1998. The Retail Properties were 94.6% leased to over 900 tenants, the largest of which accounted for 4.2% of annualized base rent from the Retail Properties as of such date. The Retail Properties have an average age of six years since built, expanded or renovated.
On March 9, 1999, we signed a series of definitive agreements with BPP Retail, a co-investment entity between BPP and CalPERS, pursuant to which BPP Retail will acquire 28 of our retail shopping centers, totaling 5.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $663.4 million. BPP Retail will acquire the centers in separate transactions, which we currently expect to close on or about April 30, 1999, July 31, 1999 and December 1, 1999. In addition, we have entered into a definitive agreement, subject to a financing confirmation, with BPP, pursuant to which BPP will acquire six additional retail centers, totaling 1.5 million square feet, for $284.4 million. Assuming the receipt of the financing confirmation, we currently expect this transaction to close by December 31, 1999. In connection with these transactions, we have also granted CalPERS an option to purchase up to 2,000,000 original issue shares of AMB's Common Stock for an exercise price of $25 per share that CalPERS may exercise on or before March 31, 2000. There can be no
assurance, however, that the transactions will close as scheduled or close at all. We currently expect that the substantial majority of our acquisition activities going forward will be in industrial properties. See "Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Business Risks -- Failure to Consummate the Transactions with BPP Retail and BPP."
The Retail Properties generally are located in supply-constrained trade areas (those trade areas typified by significant population densities, a limited number of existing retailers, such as grocers, and a low availability of land which could be developed into competitive space for additional competitive retailers) of 16 major metropolitan areas. Our national operating strategy for the community shopping center business is based on detailed research regarding target trade areas which typically have high population densities and above- average income levels. We believe that the characteristics of our trade areas tend to result in Retail Properties with above-average retail sales.
Property Characteristics. The Retail Properties generally contain between 80,000 and 400,000 rentable square feet. On average, 67% of the rentable square feet for each of the Retail Properties is leased to one or more anchor tenants (such as all grocery stores, drugstores and any other retail tenant occupying more than 10,000 rentable square feet). The following table identifies characteristics of our typical Retail Property.
Lease Terms. The Retail Properties are typically leased on a triple net basis, defined as leases in which tenants pay their proportionate share of real estate taxes, insurance and operating costs. In addition, some leases, including some anchor tenant leases, require tenants to pay percentage rents based on gross retail sales above predetermined thresholds. Typical anchor tenant leases also provide for payment of a percentage administrative fee in lieu of a management fee (calculated as a percentage of common area maintenance) which ranges between 5% and 15%. Lease terms typical for anchor tenants range from 10 to 20 years, with a weighted average of 19 years, with renewal options for an additional 10 to 20 years at fixed rents. Tenant improvement allowances are standard and the amounts vary by submarket. Typical non-anchor tenants have lease terms ranging from three to ten years with a weighted average of seven years and they typically receive options for an additional five-year term at market rents.
RETAIL PROPERTY SUMMARY
Rentable square footage occupied by anchor tenants accounted for 67.3% of the aggregate square footage of the Retail Properties as of December 31, 1998. Annualized base rent as of such date for our 25 largest tenants was approximately $31.9 million, representing approximately 40.3% of annualized base rent for all of our Retail Properties. Annualized base rent for the remaining retail tenants was approximately $47.3 million as of the same date, representing approximately 59.7% of the annualized base rent for all of our Retail Properties.
The following table sets forth, on a market basis, the rentable square footage leased to anchor tenants and non-anchor tenants as of December 31, 1998, and represents Properties in which we own a fee simple interest or a controlling interest (consolidated), and excludes Properties in which we only own a non-controlling interest (unconsolidated).
- --------------- (1) Annualized base rent represents the monthly contractual amount under existing leases at December 31, 1998, multiplied by 12. This amount excludes expense reimbursements, rental abatements and percentage rents.
(2) Calculated as total annualized base rent divided by total rentable square feet actually leased as of December 31, 1998.
RETAIL PROPERTY TENANT INFORMATION
Largest Retail Property Tenants. Our 25 largest Retail Property tenants by annualized base rent are set forth in the table below.
- --------------- (1) Tenant(s) may be a subsidiary of or an entity affiliated with the named tenant.
(2) Of the top 25 Retail Property tenants, six are grocers. Of the 38 Retail Properties, 34 are grocer-anchored.
(3) Computed as aggregate rentable square feet divided by the aggregate leased square feet of the Retail Properties.
(4) Computed as annualized base rent divided by the aggregate annualized base rent of the Retail Properties.
RETAIL PROPERTY LEASE EXPIRATIONS
The following table sets forth a summary schedule of the Retail Property lease expirations for leases in place as of December 31, 1998 without giving effect to the exercise of renewal options or termination rights, if any, at or prior to the scheduled expirations.
- --------------- (1) Schedule includes executed leases that commence after December 31, 1998. Schedule excludes leases expiring prior to January 1, 1999.
(2) Calculated as monthly rent at expiration multiplied by 12.
(3) Rent per square foot is calculated by dividing the annualized base rent of expiring leases by the square footage expiring in any given year.
(4) Includes leases encompassing 70,346 square feet which are on a month-to-month basis.
(5) Represents percentage of total rentable square footage of expiring leases.
OPERATING AND LEASING STATISTICS SUMMARY
The following summarizes key operating and leasing statistics for the Industrial and Retail Properties.
- --------------- (1) In addition to owned square feet, we manage, through its subsidiary, AMB Investment Management, 3.5 million, 0.6 million, and 0.4 million additional square feet of industrial, retail, and other properties, respectively. We also have an investment in 4.0 million square feet of Industrial Properties through our investment in an unconsolidated joint venture.
(2) Consists of industrial buildings and retail centers aggregating 25.6 million and 4.8 million square feet, respectively, that have been owned by us since January 1, 1997, and excludes development properties prior to stabilization. See "Item 14: Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for total property net operating income by segment.
HISTORICAL TENANT RETENTION RATES AND RENT INCREASES
The following table sets forth information relating to tenant retention rates and average rent increases (cash basis) on renewal and re-tenanted space for the Industrial Properties and the Retail Properties for the periods presented.
RECURRING TENANT IMPROVEMENTS AND LEASING COMMISSIONS PER SQUARE FOOT LEASED
The table below summarizes for the Industrial Properties and the Retail Properties, separately, the recurring tenant improvements and leasing commissions per square feet leased for the periods presented. The recurring tenant improvements and leasing commissions represent costs incurred to lease space after the initial lease term of the initial tenant, excluding costs incurred to relocate tenants as part of a re-tenanting strategy. The tenant improvements and leasing commissions set forth below are not necessarily indicative of future tenant improvements and leasing commissions.
OCCUPANCY AND AVERAGE BASE RENT
The table below sets forth weighted average occupancy rates and average base rent based on square feet leased of the Industrial Properties and the Retail Properties as of and for the periods presented.
- --------------- (1) Average base rent per square foot represents the total annualized contractual base rental revenue for the period divided by the average occupied square feet leased for the period.
DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE
The following table sets forth the Properties owned by us as of December 31, 1998 which were undergoing renovation, expansion or new development. No assurance can be given that any of such projects will be completed on schedule or within budgeted amounts.
- --------------- (1) Estimated stabilization date means our estimate of when capital improvements for repositioning, development and redevelopment programs will have been completed and in effect for a period of time sufficient to achieve market occupancy. The estimates are based on our current estimates and forecasts and are therefore subject to change.
(2) Represents total estimated cost of renovation, expansion or development, including initial acquisition costs, debt and equity carry, and partner earnouts. The estimates are based on our current estimates and forecasts and are therefore subject to change.
(3) Excludes approximately 129 acres of land available for expansion of existing industrial buildings or development of new industrial buildings and approximately six acres of land available for expansion of existing retail centers.
(4) Construction has begun on approximately 2.7 million square feet of industrial space and 0.5 million of retail space which was 37% and 75% leased, respectively, as of December 31, 1998.
(5) As of December 31, 1998, we have spent approximately $94.5 million and $61.5 million for the renovation, expansion or development of Industrial and Retail Properties, respectively.
PROPERTIES HELD THROUGH JOINT VENTURES, LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES AND PARTNERSHIPS
As of December 31, 1998, we held interests in 21 joint ventures, limited liability companies and partnerships with certain unaffiliated third parties (the "Joint Venture Participants") that are consolidated in our consolidated financial statements. Pursuant to the existing agreements with respect to each joint venture, we hold a greater than 50% interest in 16 of the joint ventures and a 50% interest in the remaining joint ventures, but in certain cases such agreements provide that we are a limited partner or that the Joint Venture Participant is principally responsible for day-to-day management of the Property (though in all such cases, we have approval rights with respect to significant decisions involving the underlying properties). Under the agreements governing the joint ventures, we and the Joint Venture Participant may be required to make additional capital contributions, and subject to certain limitations, the joint ventures may incur additional debt. Such agreements also impose certain restrictions on the transfer of joint venture interests by us or the Joint Venture Participant, and provide certain rights to us and/or the Joint Venture Participant to sell its interest to the joint venture or to the other venturer on terms specified in the agreement. All of the joint ventures terminate in 2024 or later, but may end earlier if a joint venture ceases to hold any interest in or have any obligations relating to the property held by such joint venture.
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the Properties owned through consolidated joint ventures as of December 31, 1998 (dollars in thousands):
- --------------- (1) Represents the book value of the property (before accumulated depreciation) owned by the joint venture entity and excludes net other assets.
(2) Represents a building which is part of the Lake Michigan Industrial Portfolio.
(3) These properties are owned by a joint venture with an Institutional Alliance Partner which is a client of AMB Investment Management.
(4) Represents a development, renovation or expansion project with a Development Alliance Partner (TM).
We account for all of the above investments on a consolidated basis for financial reporting purposes because of our ability to exercise control over significant aspects of the investment as well as our significant economic interest in such investments. See "Item 14, Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." We also have a noncontrolling limited partnership interest in one unconsolidated real estate joint venture with a net investment value of $57.7 million as of December 31, 1998.
SECURED DEBT
As of December 31, 1998, the Operating Partnership had $719.0 million of indebtedness secured by deeds of trust on certain properties. As of December 31, 1998, the total gross investment value of those properties secured by debt was $1,458,652. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources" and Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. We believe that as of December 31, 1998, the value of the Properties securing the respective obligations in each case exceeded the principal amount of the outstanding obligations.
ITEM 3.