ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
All of the properties discussed below are located in the State of Chihuahua, Mexico. The following map illustrates the locations of Chihuahua and of the properties:
Location of Cieneguita, Encino Gordo and Guazapares Properties in Chihuahua, Mexico
Cieneguita Property
Property Location
The Cieneguita Property is located in the Baja Tarahumara in Cieneguita Lluvia De Oro, an area of canyons in the Municipality of Urique, in southwest Chihuahua, Mexico. The property is located within one half mile of the small village of Cieneguita Lluvia de Oro. Access to the property is by an all weather dirt road. There is available electrical power for the property generated by diesel generators at Cieneguita Lluvia de Oro.
Claim Status and Licensing
The Cieneguita Property is currently owned by Corporativo Minero. Sunburst Mining has the option of purchasing the concessions under the payment plan discussed below. The concessions of this project cover a total area of 822 hectares (approximately 2,031 acres). The following table is a summary of the concessions on the Cieneguita Property:
Lot Name
Title Number
Area (Ha)
Term of Validity (2)
Royalties and Payments
Aurifero
492.00
7/16/1993 to 7/15/2043
(1)
Aurifero Norte
60.00
7/16/1993 to 7/15/2043
(1)
Aquilon Uno
222.1077
9/23/1998 to 9/22/2048
(1)
La Maravilla
48.00
4/29/1991 to 4/24/2041
(1)
(1) The Cieneguita concessions are all under an option to purchase for $2,000,000 of which $710,000 has been paid. MRT paid $150,000 upon execution of the agreement with Corporativo Minero and two months later paid $200,000. Because the Cieneguita property was not in production by May 6, 2006, Sunburst Mining was required to pay $120,000 to Corporativo Minero to extend the contract. Through discussions with Mexoro, Corporativo Minero agreed to reduce the obligation to $60,000, of which $10,000 was paid in April 2006. Sunburst Mining was then required to pay the remaining $50,000 by May 6, 2006. We made this payment to Corporativo Minero so the contract has been extended. The Company renegotiated the payment due May 6, 2007, to $60,000 payable on November 6, 2007, which was paid and the balance of $60,000 was paid on December 20, 2007. We paid $60,000 on May 12, 2008 of the $120,000 due on May 6, 2008, and the balance was paid in June 2008. We paid $30,000 on May 22, 2009 of the $120,000 payment due on May 6, 2009. We’ve verbally negotiated to pay the balance of $90,000 in three equal monthly payments from June 2009 to August, 2009. We are not in default on our payments. We have the obligation to pay a further $120,000 per year for the next 13 years and the balance of payments in the 14th year, until the total of $2,000,000 is paid. If the property is put into production, of which there is no assurance, then the contract calls for the remaining payments to be paid from the sale of gold, to avoid termination of the agreement.
The payments, if the property should go into production, would be as follows: The remainder of the $2,000,000 payment will be paid out of production from the Cieneguita Property at a rate of $20 dollars per ounce of gold sold. However, in the event that the price of gold is in excess of $400, then Sunburst Mining is required to accelerate payments by an additional $0.10 per each ounce for every dollar of gold priced over $400. The total payment we are liable for is $2,000,000. Once that amount is paid, we have no further obligation to Corporativo Minero. Corporativo Minero has the obligation to pay, from the funds they receive from us, any royalties that may be outstanding on the properties from prior periods. Corporativo Minero has informed us that there were royalties up to 7% NSR owned by various former owners of the property. They have informed us that the corporations holding those royalties have been dissolved and that there is no further legal requirement to make these royalty payments. We can make no assurances that we will not ultimately be responsible to pay all or some of the 7% NSR to these former royalty holders if the property were ever put into production and Corporativo Minero did not make the payments to the royalty holders. However, we do not see this potential for additional royalty payments as a material risk to us.
(2) Amendments to the Mexican mining laws took effect with the publication on December 21, 2005, including certain amendments to the Ley Federal de Derechos, the act that sets forth the mining taxes' rates. Effective January 1, 2006, this legislation has converted all of the former exploration and exploitive concessions in Mexico, which carried maximum lives of six years, and 25 years, respectively, into general concessions with a 50 year life from their date of registration with the Mining Registry. The concessions are automatically registered as soon as the concession mining rights are paid and no further paper work is required. Our claims are currently in good standing and held by Sunburst Mining. There will be no special documents sent to us to reflect the change.
In April 2006, we applied to the Mexican government for a change of use of land permit for 30 hectares of the La Maravilla concession. La Maravilla is the concession that contains the mineralized rock that is the main interest of our exploration on the Cieneguita Property. As described in our joint venture agreement below, we are currently extracting mineralized material from La Maravilla as well as continuing our exploration program. The purpose of the change of use permit is to allow us to extract the rock from this concession for the purposes of processing to extract the precious metals that may be contained therein. We made the application in advance of any known reserves being discovered on the Cieneguita Property. We cannot assure that we will have sufficient ore reserves, if any, to continue extraction as per our agreement with MRT. This permit required negotiations with the government and municipality concerning such things as the removal of timber, building and maintaining roads and reclamation. We paid the required amount of approximately $67,000 (726,000 Mexican pesos) in November 2006 and the government agency issued the change of use permit in January 2007. The permit is valid until December 31, 2011.
In July 2006, we submitted an environmental impact study and a risk analysis study to the Mexican government for a permit to build a heap leach mining operation on the Aurifero concession of the Cieneguita Property. The purpose of this permit is to allow us to construct an ore processing facility through heap leach mining methods. We do not have any ore reserves on the Cieneguita Property and applied for permits in advance of any conclusive results. In January 2007, the necessary permits to allow for the building and operation of a heap leach operation were granted to the Company. If we are unable to extract and process our discoveries, if any, then there is no need to continue exploration.
On February 12, 2009 we entered into a Definitive Agreement For Development Of “Cieneguita” Project with Minera Rio Tinto, a private Mexican corporation whose president was a former president of our Company. The definitive agreement covers project financing of up to USD $9,000,000. The major points of the agreement are as follows:
1.
Minera Rio Tinto (“MRT”) and/or its investors will subscribe for up to USD$1 million of a secured convertible debenture at 8% interest (payable in stock or cash). The debenture is convertible into units at $0.60 per unit. Each unit comprises 2 common shares and 1 warrant. Each warrant is exercisable at $0.50 per share for a period of 3 years. The placement will be used for continued exploration of our properties and general working capital. As of May 15, 2009, MRT has contributed the $1 million.
2.
MRT is to provide the necessary working capital to begin and maintain mining operations estimated to be $3,000,000 used for the purpose of putting the Cieneguita property into production. MRT will spend 100% of the money to earn 75% of the net cash flow from production. The agreement will limit the mining to the mineralized material that is available from surface to a depth of 15 meters or approximately 10% of the mineralized material found to date.
3.
MRT will spend up to USD $5 million to take the Cieneguita property through the feasibility stage. In doing so, MRT will earn a 60% interest in Mexoro’s rights to the property. After the expenditure of the $5 million all costs will be shared on a ratio of 60% to MRT and 40% to Mexoro Minerals. If we elect not to pay our portion of costs after the $5 million has been spent, our position shall revert to a 25% carried interest on the property.
4.
Portions of the joint venture agreement require we obtain consent from Paramount Gold and Silver Corporation, our secured convertible debenture holder or we repay the debenture held by Paramount Gold and Silver Corporation. Those portions of the agreement that need consent will not be undertaken until such consent is obtained or extinguished by repayment. Subsequently, we repaid approximately $1,300,000 of the debenture owed to Paramount Gold and Silver Corp and in doing so, Paramount agreed to release the Cieneguita property as part of its security under the debenture. As a result of this partial repayment we no longer need the consent of Paramount to begin extraction of mineralized material at Cieneguita.
5.
The Spanish version of this agreement is the governing agreement in case of dispute between the English version and the Spanish versions.
History
The Cieneguita mine was in limited production in the 1990s. Over a four-year period, the Cieneguita mine was operated by Mineral Glamis La Cieneguita S. de R.L. de C.V. (“Glamis”), a subsidiary of the Canadian company Glamis Gold Ltd. (“Glamis Gold”). Glamis was recently acquired by Goldcorp Inc. According to Glamis’ records, Glamis mined and processed 198,000 tonnes of mineralized rock grading 2.2 g/t gold on the property in 1995, ceasing production shortly thereafter. At that time, Corporativo Minero, the operator of the mine for Glamis, acquired the property. MRT entered into an agreement with Corporativo Minero on January 12, 2004 pursuant to which MRT acquired all of the mineral rights from Corporativo Minero to explore and exploit the Cieneguita concessions and to purchase them for $2,000,000. Under our agreements with MRT, MRT has assigned this agreement to us. As of the date of this annual report, $710,000 of the $2,000,000 has been paid to Corporativo Minero. MRT paid $150,000 upon execution of this agreement and two months later paid $200,000. We are obligated to make yearly payments on these concessions to Corporativo Minero until the $2,000,000 has been paid. Also, the agreement calls for the balance of the purchase price remaining to be paid out of production, if any, on Cieneguita at a rate of $20 per ounce of gold sold. However, in the event that the price of gold were to exceed $400, then Sunburst Mining would be required to pay an additional $0.10 per each ounce for every dollar gold trades over $400.
If Cieneguita is never put into production, we are still obligated to pay the $120,000 per year until the $2,000,000 is paid. Sunburst Mining made payments to the property owners of $10,000 in April 2006 and $50,000 in May 2006 in lieu of its obligation of bringing the property to production on or prior to May 6, 2006. Sunburst Mining has the obligation to pay $120,000 per year for the years subsequent to May 6, 2006 until the $2,000,000 is paid or the mine is put into production, if
ever, in which case the remaining amount owed would be paid out of any production of the property, to avoid termination of the agreement. The Company renegotiated the payment due May 6, 2007, to $60,000 payable on November 6, 2007, which was paid, and the balance of $60,000 which was paid on December 20, 2007. The Company paid $60,000 of the $120,000 due on May 6, 2008, and the balance was paid on June 20, 2008. We paid $30,000 on May 22, 2009 of the $120,000 payment due on May 6, 2009. We’ve verbally negotiated to pay the balance of $90,000 in three equal monthly payments from June 2009 to August, 2009. We are not in default on our payments. On termination of the agreement, there would be no further obligations by Mexoro to any parties other than assuming responsibility for any reclamation work that may need to be done as a result of exploration or mining activity if any should occur.
Geology
The Cieneguita Property is located in the mid-Tertiary domain of the Sierra Madre Occidental of Chihuahua State, Mexico. This region is dominated by felsic ignimbrites and reportedly represents the largest field of felsic volcanics in the world (Jones, 2006).
Based on the work of Jones (2006), who spent approximately two weeks on the Cieneguita Property in mid-November of 2006, the Cieneguita Property appears to lie along the eastern margin of a well-defined but previously unidentified collapse caldera named the ‘Cieneguita Caldera’. The Cieneguita Caldera appears to be part of a larger caldera complex which exhibits a rough north-south trend, which may, at its southern end, include the El Sauzal project (a producing mine). As suggested by Jones (2006), this north-south trending caldera complex may have developed along a broad north-south arc related to post-Laramide collapse and extension which occurred throughout western North America. The identification of this nested caldera is considered important as the mineralization on the Cieneguita Property appears to be controlled by volcano-structural features related to the Cieneguita Caldera and the caldera complex in which it lies (Jones, 2006).
Field mapping by Jones (2006) has indicated that the Cieneguita Caldera is approximately 15 kilometers in width and possibly up to 32 kilometers in length. This mapping also identified a number of diagnostic features of calderas. These include:
·
Significant thicknesses of horizontally stratified tuff - interpreted as intracaldera deposits.
·
Morphologic/topographic break between ponded and outflow ignimbrites - interpreted as the topographic caldera wall.
·
Ring structure (based on satellite imagery).
·
Landslide deposits of caldera wallrocks that have been engulfed by intra-caldera tuffs in the form of megabreccias.
Jones (2006) has suggested that the Cieneguita deposit lies along the (eastern) topographic rim of the Cieneguita Caldera. This interpretation is based on an important litho-structural break between outward (easterly) dipping outflow tuffs and horizontally stratified intra-caldera tuffs. Furthermore, erosion appears to have reduced the rim to the level of the ring-fracture zone. This is based on a number of well-defined north-south striking faults and shears in the caldera wall (Jones, 2006).
Lithotypes
A number of lithologies have been identified on the Cieneguita Property and have been summarized by Jones (2006) below.
The extra-caldera (caldera wall) lithologies include (from oldest to youngest) a lower rhyolite tuff, an andesite vitrophyre, an upper rhyolite tuff and basaltic dykes.
Field observations indicate that the lower two units and portions of the third were deposited prior to caldera formation. Landslide blocks of andesite vitrophyre and portions of the upper rhyolite can be found engulfed by intra-caldera tuffs.
These units show relatively conformable dips in sequential beds demonstrating that they were deposited on the margins of the volcanic edifice and predate caldera formation.
Lower rhyolite tuff: The lower rhyolite unit includes at least two welded tuff sequences that are nearly indistinguishable from the upper rhyolite sequence. The rhyolites contain a low percentage but consistent amount of lithic fragments. The unit’s thickness is unknown.
Andesite vitrophyre: This unit is a basaltic to andesitic flow which is exposed for nearly two kilometers along the strike of the caldera wall. It is strongly vitric to the north, moderately vitric in the centre and largely devitrified at the project area and to the south. The unit contains an even abundance of relatively calcic plagioclase crystals while the mafic component is predominately hornblende with minor pyroxene and biotite. This unit acts as the most important marker horizon in the caldera wall with an estimated thickness of 65-80 meters.
Upper rhyolite tuff: The base of this unit is defined by locally well graded basal surge deposits that grade upwards into tuffs with a very high percentage of lithic fragments including blocks up to several metres in diameter. The unit grades upward into a high lithic load welded tuff which marks the lowest of at least three welded tuff packages. The base of this unit occurs as landslide blocks on the Cieneguita Property indicating that it at least partially predates the Cieneguita Caldera. The three overlying welded tuff packages may be correlative with the Cieneguita Caldera itself
Basalt dykes: A single 6 meter wide basaltic dyke has been mapped cutting the upper rhyolite tuff sequence. This dyke cuts the upper caldera fill facies of the upper rhyolite sequence and is therefore considered to be post-Cieneguita Caldera formation.
The intra caldera lithologies are found within the Cieneguita Caldera and include a megabreccia sequence and caldera infill sequence.
Megabreccia Sequence: This unit is characterized by large blocks of caldera wall that collapsed into the caldera during caldera collapse. At Cieneguita, a portion of the caldera wall, consisting of both the andesite vitrophyre and the basal units of the upper rhyolite sequence, slid into the caldera and were engulfed and injected by intra caldera ash flow deposits. Within one of the larger blocks contained in the megabreccia, the contact between the andesite vitrophyre unit and the upper rhyolite tuffs strikes through the center of the formally mined area of Pit 1. This contact is thought to have had an important control on the emplacement and localization of the gold mineralization.
Caldera Infill Sequence: This unit includes rocks that were formed by volcaniclastics that were vented and deposited during caldera formation. This unit can be subdivided into two groups; basal surge deposits and lithic rhyolite tuffs.
i)
Basal surge deposits exhibit dune-like forms consisting of moderately to well sorted beds of well rounded grains of siliceous volcanic rocks. They are thought to be shock deposits formed from the air blast of the initial caldera explosion.
ii)
Lithic rhyolite tuffs overlying the basal surge deposits consist of horizontally stratified pyroclastics that were deposited into the Cieneguita Caldera. The tuffs include a variable, heterogeneous lithic load of pre-existing volcanic rocks and megabreccia. The unit varies from grey (when unconsolidated) to purple-salmon colored where they are more indurated and welded.
Intrusives: The youngest rocks found at Cieneguita are the intrusives, which cut the caldera infill sequences. They occur as dykes and sills ranging in width from one to eight meters. The three types of intrusives that have been identified are felsites, composite basalt-rhyolite vent breccias, and basalts.
i)
Felsite dykes can be observed along the south ridge of Cieneguita as two dykes with an east-northeast strike dipping moderately to steeply to the northwest. They clearly crosscut the intra-caldera tuffs and are nowhere brecciated, altered or veined. They are characteristically fine grained and siliceous with sanidine and bi-pyramidal quartz phenocrysts.
ii)
The composite basalt-rhyolite vent breccias/dykes commonly contain a high percentage of lithic and pumice clasts, compositional banding and spherulites. Quartz veining, specularite and heavy hematite dustings are locally quite intense within and adjacent to these intrusions suggesting they may be mineralized. They are thought to have formed by the commingling of actively erupting basaltic and rhyolitic melt.
iii)
Basalt is present as dykes and irregular intrusions exhibiting a chocolate brown color and fine-grained homogenous texture. They show no signs of deformation or alteration and are thought to be post-mineralization.
Structure
The most important structures in a regional sense are those that controlled the development of the Cieneguita Caldera. The elongate shape of the Cieneguita Caldera suggests that it formed along a NNW-SSE trending axis of regional collapse and extension at the end of the Laramide. Extension continued during and after caldera formation as evidenced by normal faults that offset both pre-caldera and intra-caldera rocks down to the west (Jones, 2006).
The primary structural controls at the mineralized area on the Property trend WSW-ENE as indicated by extensive sheeted fractures and a few faults. The most important of these structures identified thus far is a fault which strikes through the centre of Tajo 1 resulting in the down faulting of the rhyolite/andesite contact to the north. Intense quartz veining and elevated gold values are associated with this fault indicating that it also acted as a conduit for gold-bearing fluids. Notably, this fault is paralleled by two of the felsite dykes described earlier. Jones (2006) suggests that these are deep-seated pre-caldera extensional structures which were reactivated during resurgent magmatism within a nested caldera to the west of the town of Cieneguita and subsequently exploited by the late felsite dykes.
Jones (2006) considers NNW to NNE striking high-angle faults to be important from an economic standpoint. He suggests that mineralization may be well off the main trend as a result of these structures acting as permeable pathways for migrating gold-bearing fluids.
Deposit Types
There are three main deposit types that are considered relevant to the Cieneguita Property: epithermal vein, mesothermal vein and porphyry. These are briefly discussed below.
Epithermal
High sulphidation epithermal deposits occur as veins, vuggy breccias and sulphide replacements ranging from pods to massive lenses associated with high-level hydrothermal systems marked by acid-leached, advanced argillic and siliceous alteration. Metal associations in these deposits include variable amounts of precious (Au-Ag) and base (Cu-Pb-Zn) metals and variable gangue mineralogies. Irregular deposit geometries are the result of host rock permeability and the orientation of mineralized controlling structures. Multiple, crosscutting composite veins are common.
Recent research indicates that these deposits form in subaerial volcanic complexes or composite island arc volcanoes above degassing magma chambers. The deposits commonly contain multiple stages of mineralization, presumably related to periodic tectonism associated with increased intrusive activity and magmatic hydrothermal fluid generation (Panteleyev, 1996). The age of the deposits are commonly Tertiary to Quaternary, however, some deposits have been dated in Mesozoic and Paleozoic volcanic belts. The rare preservation of older deposits reflects rapid rates of erosion before burial of subaerial volcanoes in tectonically active arcs.
Rock types associated with epithermal deposits include a subaerial andesite-dacite-rhyodacite pyroclastics & flows as well as their subvolcanic intrusive equivalents. It is also thought that permeable intervolcanic sedimentary rocks can act as sites of mineralization. The country rock surrounding epithermal veins is commonly extensively altered even though the vein walls may be sharply defined. It is also not uncommon to find large, highly coloured supergene gossans covering epithermal mineralization.
Mesothermal
Mesothermal gold vein deposits are commonly associated with crustal-scale strike slip faults and can be hosted in a wide variety of lithologies (Olsen et al., 1994). Analysis of fluid inclusions from samples of quartz veins yield average temperatures of more than 250 degrees Celsius. The veins are podiform, sheared, and concordant with the enclosing brittle to ductily deformed host rock and range in metamorphic grade from greenschist to amphibolite facies. Mesothermal gold deposits are found in proximity to major regional crustal-scale fault and fracture systems and are most often hosted in secondary or tertiary structures related to the regional scale structures. Gold is deposited via 250-400 C hydrothermal fluids which originate deep in the earths crust. The fault and fracture zones act as permeable conduits for the fluids to migrate. Gold is carried in solution until the fluid reaches a point where there is either a chemical reaction with the country rock or changes in temperature and/or pressure causes the gold to precipitate. The gold and various associated metals precipitate out of solution together with quartz, carbonate and various other accessory minerals. Structural evidence such as shears, folds in bedding or pinches, swells, and pods in quartz veins are characteristic of ductile deformation and can be often found
at many Au-bearing mesothermal quartz veins. Au is often associated with pyrite, chalcopyrite and/or arsenopyrite and can occur as either free grains, within the pyrite/arsenopyrite structure or as electrum.
Porphyry
Porphyry deposits are typically low grade and large tonnage deposits that are both spatially and genetically to igneous intrusions (McMillan, 1991). The intrusive rocks that host these deposits are generally found to be felsic to intermediate. There are two primary processes that are responsible for porphyry-style mineralization. The first is the fracturing that results from the upwelling of magmatic derived hydrothermal fluids into the shallow crust where lower pressure conditions cause it to boil.
The build up of fluids occurs at the time the intrusion crystallizes, leaving behind an excess of fluids, some of which are derived from the intrusions contact metamorphic front. This aqueous fluid can potentially be enriched in gold, copper, or molybdenum. Further mineralization is achieved as the cooling magma chamber provides the heat engine to create hydrothermal convection cells. Metal enriched aqueous fluid circulates thought the stockwork and all fractures adding to and re-depositing these metals. Mineralization and alteration develop both in the intrusive and in the country rock. The core of the mineralizing system is dominated by a potassic alteration zone. Potassic alteration consists of potassium feldspar, biotite, and quartz. This grades out into the phyllic zone, in which the alteration is made up of quartz and muscovite (typically fine grained sericite). This grades out into the argillic zone, where the principal alteration is quartz and a variety of clay minerals. The propylitic zone rinds the argillic zone and consists of chlorite, epidote, and carbonate.
Mineralization
The gold mineralization identified to date at Cieneguita is localized exclusively within the intra-caldera rocks (megabreccias and infill tuffs). The mineralization is structurally controlled, occurring at the intersections of east-northeast structures and north-south extensional faults. Its spatial and temporal association with the felsic dykes suggests a genetic relationship between resurgent felsic magmatism (related to a younger nested caldera?) and gold mineralization.
The three main gold-related alteration assemblages that have been observed at Cieneguita include:
-
Quartz +/- biotite +/- orthoclase +/- adularia +/- calcite
-
Quartz-sericite-pyrite
-
Hematite-goethite
Quartz-biotite-orthoclase-adularia-calcite (Low Sulphidation)
This assemblage is a form of potassic alteration and is typically bordered by sericite-chlorite-epidote-alunite-clay alteration on the margins of quartz veins. With increased veining, the clay-sericite alteration merges into a more pervasive style of alteration. Associated sulphides are minimal. This variety of alteration is best observed in the andesite vitrophyre north of the project area. The quartz, along with other minerals, are present as veins and sometimes as vain selvedge alteration which in areas of intense alteration is observed as being pervasive. This alteration is not known to be associated with significant sulphide mineralization.
Quartz-sericite-pyrite (High Sulphidation)
This alteration style occurs as a pervasive overprinting within and along structural and lithological breaks. The quartz-sericite-pyrite zones are commonly bordered by clay alteration.
Hematite-goethite
This alteration style is found locally along reaction fronts, fractures, and at the leading edges of silica veins. It locally overprints the first two assemblages. It occurs as massive red to orange-brown zones that are inferred to represent the deposition of and conversion of earlier sulphides to, hypogene iron oxides. Gold mineralization on the Cieneguita Property is most strongly associated with this alteration assemblage.
As noted by Jones (2006) the alteration and mineralization styles on the Property differ with rock type and geological setting. The two principle mineralized rock hosts are intra-caldera megabreccia and intra-caldera rhyolite tuff as discussed below:
Intra-caldera megabreccia
The megabreccia unit is the primary lithological host to mineralization at Tajo 1.
Severe fracturing, faulting and brecciation during caldera formation were enhanced by the rheological contrasts between the brittle andesite vitrophyre and upper rhyolite tuff. These structures were subsequently infilled/injected by the highly fluid tuff which formed the matrix to the megabreccia. It was these faulted and tuff-injected zones that became the preferred pathways for mineralizing fluids.
Mineralization within the upper rhyolite tuff blocks of the megabreccia is typically accompanied by a strong quartz-sericite-pyrite alteration assemblage. It is described as having dark grey, highly siliceous, sulphide-rich, resistant bands that preserve relict bedding. Iron-oxide alteration crosscuts this alteration along fractures and is interpreted by Jones (2006) to represent a hypogene iron-oxide retrograde event. Quartz veins appear to be either paragenetically early and/or adjacent to the more intensely altered zones. Gold grades within this litho-alteration assemblage are consistently high (>>1 g/t) in these area
Mineralization within the andesite vitrophyre blocks of the megabreccia is found in faulted and tuff injected fractures. The brittle nature of the andesite resulted in extensive internal deformation in part related to devitrification. These structures were easily exploited during landslide collapse giving rise to 3D forked voids which were immediately injected with tuff and subsequently used as preferred pathways for mineralizing fluids. These pathways contain strong quartz-sericite-pyrite alteration bordered by extensive and pervasive argillic (clay) zones. In contrast to the rhyolite, the quartz-sericite-pyrite zones in the andesite show only moderate elevations in gold (0.5-0.7 g/t).
The leading edges of the stronger quartz-sericite-pyrite zones in the andesite are marked with intense iron-oxide fronts of heavy dark red to orange brown goethite-hematite. These iron-oxide fronts consistently carry higher (>2g/t) gold grades whilst adjacent quartz-sericite-pyrite zones are only weakly mineralized.
Intra-caldera rhyolite tuff
In comparison to the megabreccia unit the rhyolite tuffs are only weakly to moderately consolidated. The repercussions of this are that there is little brittle deformation such that would allow for focused fluid flow. Instead, the highly permeable tuffs exhibit broad and diffuse zones of alteration and mineralization.
Mineralization & alteration zones in the intra-caldera rhyolite tuffs are primarily controlled by east-northeast striking structures and, to a lesser degree, north-south structures. These zones are typically characterized by Iron oxide concentrations along and bordering the associated structure. Mineralization and quartz-sericite-pyrite alteration can also be found bordering felsite dykes. Trenching at Tajo 2 has suggested a gold-copper association based on the presence of chrysocolla. Distal to the quartz-sericite-pyrite zones, the rhyolite tuff takes on a chalky white appearance related to pervasive but diffuse clay alteration.
Glamis Gold performed a test pilot heap leach operation on the property in the mid 1990s. Exploration on the property is still in its early stages and significant work needs to be completed before any type of ore reserve calculations, if any, could be made. We have done some initial sampling and drilling on the La Maravilla concessions as described below.
A total of 51 diamond drill holes (6,700 meters) drilled by Cominco defined an auriferous zone approximately 1,000 meters long by 200 meters wide. Within the zone, two mineralized structures were drilled during an exploration program in 1981 and 1982. Later, two drilling programs were performed by Glamis: 135 holes were drilled during 1994 and 62 holes were drilled during 1997. Both programs confirmed the delineation of the two mineralized bodies. We have posted these reports from Cominco and Glamis on our website at www.mexoro.com. The continuing exploration conducted by the Company will focus on further delineating the oxide and mixed mineralized rock structures.
Select intersections from historic drilling at the Cieneguita Property
Hole ID
From
To
Interval (m)
Au (g/ton)
Ag (g/ton)
C-6
5.1
C-7
17.25
18.75
1.5
4.9
86.1
C-8
5.3
C-12
7.45
10.5
3.05
7.8
6.2
C-12
10.5
1.5
4.9
3.2
C-12
160.25
1.75
31.8
C-14
7.8
C-16
2.8
4.2
1.4
6.5
6.5
C-19
88.7
1.7
8.5
-
C-19
88.7
90.55
1.85
13.3
C-29
4.7
69.8
4.6
10.2
5.7
5.6
5.3
8.9
1.9
4.3
4.6
2.6
5.6
7.4
7.5
10.4
12.7
2.3
4.7
11.9
14.4
2.5
4.7
2.1
3.8
1.7
5.8
3.8
6.8
10.1
5.2
5.5
4.9
6.5
2.55
2.55
4.1
We used the original data from Cominco and Glamis to delineate the mineralized zone and to plan our original trenching and sampling programs. In April 2006, we completed a sampling of the property that included more than 500 meters of deep trenches from which we took comprehensive channel sampling. Each of the eight trenches was approximately 200 meters long and two to 10 meters deep spaced equally along the 1,000 meters strike length of the property. From the walls of these trenches, we took approximately 550 rock samples. One half of these samples were sent to ALS Chemex’s laboratory in Chihuahua for assaying. The sampling protocol followed the best mining practices. The purpose of the sampling was to further define the mineralized grade and potential of the property.
Our president believes that the mineralized material at Cieneguita is structurally controlled and hosted by breccias and tuffs varying from rhyolitic to dacitic in composition. The main mineralization and alteration zones have been developed in the intersection of WNW, NW and NE structures to the northwest (Pit 1 area) and to the southeast (Pit 2 area). These mineralized zones consist mainly of acid-sulphate alteration, including quartz-alunite and small and localized areas exhibiting residual or vuggy silica alteration zones and are interpreted to represent a high-sulphidation gold (±silver) system.
Phase 2 of exploration was designed to identify new veins and/or mineralized zones. The geological mapping and sampling activities carried out within phase 2 at Cieneguita has resulted in the discovery of gold zones in three different locations along Cieneguita’s mineralized body. The three new gold locations have been identified just on the outlined limit of the known mineralized body opening the potential to the southeast in the Pit 1 South area, to the north in the Central area and to the north in the Pit 2 area, respectively.
Gold mineralization in the Pit 1 South area is mainly controlled by N35°E structures exhibiting quartz-sericite-pyrite alteration and small and localized areas with high clay content, where exposures allowed continuous chip sampling along roadcuts.
The new Central and Pit 2 North areas indicate that the mineralized material is primarily controlled by E-W and N30°W structures also exhibiting quartz-sericite-pyrite where pyrite has been completely oxidized. Small and localized areas of high clay content are also common.
As we originally had planned to produce precious metals from the Cieneguita property by heap leach method of mining we took samples at the Cieneguita Property 22 tonnes of the material to complete column tests to determine the leachability of the precious metals from the rock. In this test, the mineralized rock was placed in PVC tubes and different mixtures of a cyanide solution were dripped over the top of the columns at different flow rates. The results from these tests will help us to determine the most effective solution to use on the heap leach pads on the property. The tests, conducted by qualified geologists employed by MRT, were undertaken to determine if the metallurgy of the minerals would allow for economic recovery of the precious metals using a cyanide heap leach process. The tests were scientifically conducted and monitored for quality control and efficacy. The results of the column test indicate that up to 98% of the gold contained in the mineralized rock samples we took could be recovered from the mineralized rock if the mineralized rock is leached for a sufficient period of time. Under actual mining production conditions in the field, we would anticipate economic recovery levels from the mineralized rock to be approximately 70% to 75% recovery. The cost of the cyanide needed to recover gold above the 85% level would outweigh the value of gold recovered. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to reach this level of recovery. This is not an estimate of reserves on the property. Additional tests will be needed to determine the most effective crush size for the mineralized rock, the most cost effective flow rates of the cyanide and the most economical period of time for leaching. But as our drilling and exploration program discovered additional mineralized material contained in the sulphide material located on the property we deferred our plan to implement the heap leach mining process until we could have a better understanding of the geology of the property and the best method to use to put the property into production.
During the year ended February 28, 2009, we completed a 20,215 meter drilling program, and a technical report that is compliant with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 estimating the mineralized material was produced.
The main activities in the Cieneguita project are set forth below:
·
100 diamond drillholes completed for a total of 20,215 meters of drilling
·
Broad mineralized intercepts including 111.5 meters with 1.24 g/t Au, 99.6 g/t Ag, 0.45% Pb and 0.73% Zn (C-21) and 94 meters with 1.21 g/t Au, 79.8 g/t Ag, 0.78% Pb and 1.2% Zn (CI-30)
·
Mineralization at Cieneguita has been traced over 900 meters along strike and still remains open to the southwest and to depth
·
Exploration ongoing; infill drilling program has been designed to expand the size of the mineralized material
Cieneguita is a new gold-silver and polymetallic discovery made in 2008 by our exploration team. Our exploration work to date includes 100 diamond core drillholes totaling 20,215 meters of drilling. The drilling exploration program commenced in December 2007 with one drill rig and a second rig was added in July 2008. Due to our financial constraints, one of the drill rigs was taken away in October 2008 and drilling continued with one rig until December 19, 2008.
Mexoro has received analysis results for only 60 holes of 100 drilled to date (CI-01 to CI-54, CI 67-CI-69, CI 71, CI 74 and CI-77). A complete listing of the drill logs are published in the Form 10Q for the period ended August 31, 2008 and at our website www.mexoro.com. With the exception of the holes noted above, the assay results from holes CI-55 to CI-100 are still pending; however, most of the holes returned the same broad mineralized intercepts similar to previously announce results. No assurance may be given, though, that these new holes will have the same values as previously analyzed holes. Two different styles of mineralization have been identified: precious (gold-silver) and base (lead-zinc-silver) metal mineralization, with higher gold-silver grades starting on surface and higher grade lead-zinc-silver mineralization intercepted at depth and to the west of the Cieneguita deposit. We interpret the Cieneguita deposit as a diatreme breccia body where disseminated oxide and sulphide mineralization is mainly hosted by quartz-sericite altered diatreme breccias and lapilli tuffs.
The mineralized body is shaped like a funnel which has been flattened laterally, measuring over 900 meters by 300 meters as defined by the drill results. Dana Durgin, an independent geological engineer has completed a cross section-based geological model and has calculated inferred mineralized material of 15.249 million tons with 2.62 g/t Au equivalent based on assays that were composited using the sum of the dollar values for Au, Ag, Pb and Zn in each drill interval. Three-year trailing average prices used were: gold = $727.22 per ounce, silver = $13.66 per ounce, lead = $1.00 per pound, zinc = $1.36 per pound. A cutoff of $30 was applied and weighted averages calculated for each above-cutoff interval. These intervals were projected between drill holes and between sections to produce resource blocks, which were then compiled using weighted averages to produce a total tonnage and grade with a dollar value per ton.
Mineralization intersected in CI-34 (46 meters with 4.68 grams per ton gold, 87.67 grams per ton silver, 0.24% lead and 0.22% zinc) and CI-29 (51 meters with 0.5 grams per ton gold, 55.03 grams per ton silver, 0.34% lead and 0.46% zinc), both collared in the western portion of Cieneguita suggests that mineralization still remains open to west, southwest and to depth in the western part of the Cieneguita deposit. No assurance may be given, though, that additional mineralized material will be found in these areas.
This figure is showing the geological units and distribution of the 100 drillholes.
Because of the favorable mapping-sampling and drilling results in Cieneguita, we initiated a brownfield exploration program aimed at locating additional mineralization within our properties. The exploration process around the main mineralization zone at Cieneguita has identified two new areas of mineralization 500 meters to south of the current known reserves. These two areas known as Piedras Blancas and Piedra Amarilla are exhibiting the same size, characteristics, and intensity of alteration-mineralization on surface as encountered at Cieneguita. No assurance, though, may be given that any positive exploration results will come from these similarities.
Detailing mapping and sampling is currently underway. Our exploration at the Piedras Blancas area has consisted of a 1:1,000 scale geologic mapping, rock chip samples and vein geochemical sampling.
A figure exhibiting main geological and mineralization features on the Piedras Blancas and Piedra Amarilla areas is shown below.
Despite these results, the Cieneguita Property has no known or estimated reserves.
To date, MRT has extracted approximately 5,000 tonnes of mineralized material and has shipped it to its mill located in Sinoloa as a commercial test pilot program. The main purpose of the test is to determine the best process for extracting the precious metals from the mineralized material. We are currently waiting to receive those results back from MRT.
Infrastructure
The town, near the former mine, has the following services: diesel generated electrical power, cellular phone service, radio communication (CB), a health center and a school. Because the property was previously in production, it has existing infrastructure that includes power, water, railroad transportation (within 20 kilometers), and a public, all weather road with access year round. The haul roads to the heap leach pads from the open pit area are in good condition and have been maintained by third parties since Glamis halted production, and the heap leach pads used in previous mining operations are still in place. It is our intention to use the existing pads and tailings site to reduce our costs to re-open the mine. Because of this existing infrastructure, we believe that the investment needed to put the mine into production would be less than the
investment that would be required for a mine that was never in production. There are no additional equipment or facilities available to us on the property. Further study is required to review the feasibility and suggested extent of our use of the existing infrastructure of the old mine.
Budget
To date, we have spent $4,246,000 (Peso 49,967,000) on the exploration of the Cieneguita Property. The proposed exploration budget for the Cieneguita project for 2009 is $1,128,047. This budget does not include any money to be spent by MRT in the event a joint venture agreement is finalized with them. See “Plan of Operations” in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” section for further information.
Guazapares Property
Property Location
The Guazapares Property is located in the Barranca section of Chihuahua State in Mexico. According to data published by the Government of Mexico, it is at the interphase between the two main volcanic groups that form the bulk of the Sierra Madre Occidental. The location is 220 kilometers to the southwest of Chihuahua City. An all weather dirt road traverses the property. The property is accessible year round by air, rail (within 20 kilometers) and road. The area has available diesel generated power and water.
The Guazapares Property, covering 1,980 hectares (approximately 4,893 acres), is in a mining district with a history of large ore deposits. A large ore deposit would be defined as a property capable of producing in excess of 50,000 ounces of gold equivalent per year.
Claim Status & Licensing
Sunburst Mining owns or has an option to purchase 100% of the Guazapares concessions, as indicated below. If our exploration is successful on the optioned concessions, then Sunburst Mining intends to exercise its option to acquire them. There is no penalty for not exercising our options. The concessions not owned by Sunburst Mining are owned by Compañía Minera. There is no relationship between Compañía Minera and Mexoro, its officers, directors and affiliates. The following table sets forth those concessions in the Guazapares area that Sunburst Mining owns or has the option to purchase:
(1)
Amendments to the Mexican mining laws took effect with the publication on December 21, 2005, of certain amendments to the Ley Federal de Derechos, the act that sets forth the mining taxes' rates. Effective January 1, 2006, this Mexican Government legislation has converted all of the former exploration concessions in Mexico, which carried a maximum six year life, and exploitive concessions, which had a 25 year life, into general concessions with a 50 year life from the date they were registered with the Mining Registry. The concessions are automatically registered as soon as the concession
mining rights are paid and no further paper work is required. These claims are currently in good standing and held by Sunburst Mining. There will be no special documents sent to us to reflect this change.
(2)
These concessions have been transferred to the Company. However, we must continue to make payments on these concessions in order to retain ownership. The total payments for us to acquire and retain 100% ownership of all eight concessions are as follows: November 30, 2005 - $100,000 (this payment date has been extended - see below), October 31, 2006 - $60,000 (this payment date was extended to February 28, 2007 and then to May 31, 2007 and then to August 31, 2007- see below 5), August 2, 2007 - $140,000 (see below 5), August 2, 2008 - $110,000 (we did not make this payment. Under the Letter of Intent signed with Paramount for the sale of Guazapares concessions, Mexoro will negotiate deferring payment until the 37th month from the closing date of the sale) and August 2, 2009 - $500,000. These scheduled payments must be made to keep our agreement in good standing. Failure to make the payments would cancel our agreements to acquire these concessions.
(3)
These concessions are currently under option agreements. Title to the concessions has not yet been transferred to the Company. The total payments for us to acquire 100% ownership of all three concessions are as follows: January 15, 2006 - $20,000 (paid), January 15, 2007 - $40,000 (this payment was deferred until April 15, 2007 and payment was made on March 26, 2007), January 15, 2008 - $50,000 (this payment was deferred to January 31, 2008 and was paid in April 2008), January 15, 2009 - $50,000 (we did not make this payment. Under the Letter of Intent signed with Paramount for the sale of Guazapares concessions, Mexoro will negotiate deferring payment until the 37th month from the closing date of the sale) and January 15, 2010 - $500,000. These scheduled payments must be made to keep our option to acquire these concessions in good standing. Failure to make the payments would cancel our options to acquire these concessions.
(4)
This concession is currently under an option agreement. Title to the concession has not been transferred to the Company. The total payments for us to acquire 100% ownership of this concession are as follows: June 25, 2006 - $20,000 (paid), June 25, 2007 - $30,000 (paid), June 25, 2008 - $40,000 (paid) and June 25, 2009 - $250,000. These payments must be made to keep our option to acquire these concessions in good standing. Failure to make the payments would cancel our options to acquire these concessions.
(5)
On September 19, 2007, Sunburst Mining, Mexoro and MRT entered into an agreement to defer any and all property payments regarding Guazapares, owing to MRT which became due by December 31, 2007, until such time as Sunburst Mining and Mexoro have sufficient funds to make the payments, in the opinion of the disinterested directors of Mexoro.
History
Old mining records in the public domain indicate that mining operations commenced on this site in the 17th century. Most of the production on this site came from high-grade vein deposits mined by crude underground methods. These records indicate that the main Guazapares breccia veins were discovered in or around 1830. The major period of production was from 1870 to 1900, when there were four silver pan amalgamation mills in operation. Although the deposits contain both gold and silver, the early mills could not recover the gold as it is very fine and occurs along cleavage planes in the pyrite. The mills at the time could only process the oxidized portions of the veins, and the unoxidized, sulfide-bearing material was usually left in the mines as pillars. The principal mine owner died in 1890, after which the mines of Guazapares slowly sank into disrepair and closed by 1900. In 1905, a U.S. company consolidated most of the properties and reopened some of the mine workings. The company ran into financial difficulties during 1907 and work halted. Ramon Valenzuela then acquired the Guazapares Property and operated a mill until 1912. Noranda Exploration, Inc. briefly optioned concessions in the area in the early 1990s. Kennecott Utah Copper Corp. optioned the core concessions in 1993-94 and drilled a few holes at one of the concessions. On Guazapares 4, and on a property adjacent to it, War Eagle Mining Company, Inc. drilled a total of 5,552 meters in 50 holes on three mineralized zones between November 1991 and August 2002.
Geology
There are two main deposit types that are considered relevant to the Guazapares Property: epithermal vein and mesothermal vein. These are briefly discussed below.
In an epithermal gold deposit, the gold is deposited within one to two kilometers of the surface and is deposited from hot fluids. The fluids of epithermal systems range between 50 and 200 degrees Celsius with moderate pressures (Panteleyev, 1991-4). These deposits are typically related to volcanism in continental arc settings. Epithermal type mineralized veins are often spatially and genetically related to porphyry systems (Panteleyev, 1991-4). Epithermal gold deposits are formed by two chemically distinct fluids. The first is low sulphidation fluid, a mixture of meteoric water and magmatic fluid that is of nearly neutral pH. Gold is carried in solution in low sulphidation waters and is deposited when the water rises to shallow low pressure levels in the crust and boils. The second fluid, high sulphidation fluid, which is almost totally derived from a magmatic source is deposited when the fluid cools or is mixed with meteoric water. Gold and other metals can originate either from the magma or be leeched from the host rock as the fluids travel though fractures. Low sulphidation fluids typically form mineralized cavity filling quartz veins. High sulphidation fluids often form mineralization that is penetrative into the host rock often observed as disseminated texture. Low sulphidation systems are known for containing economic quantities of silver with some copper, lead, and zinc. Other minerals associated with low sulphidation systems are chalcedony, carbonate, pyrite, sphalerite, and galena. High sulphidation systems often contain economic quantities of gold and copper. Other minerals associated with high sulphidation systems are quartz, alunite, pyrite, and other copper minerals (Panteleyev,
1991-4). Geochemical exploration for these types of deposits results in different chemical anomalies depending on the type of mineralization present. Low sulphidation deposits are higher in zinc and lead, lower in copper, and have a higher ratio of silver to gold. High sulphidation deposits are higher in arsenic and copper and have lower silver to gold ratio.
Mesothermal gold deposits can be hosted in a wide variety of lithologies. These deposit often show relationships with regional scale strike slip faults (Olsen et al., 1994). Analysis of fluid inclusions from samples of quartz veins give average temperatures of more than 250 degrees Celsius. These veins are podiform, sheared, and concordant with enclosing schists of a transitional greenschist-amphibolite grade. Gold mineralization is best associated with faults that show evidence of deformation that is transitional between ductile to brittle and associated with greenschist to amphibolite facies metamorphism (Olsen et al., 1994). Mesothermal gold deposits are found in the proximity of major regional fault and fracture systems and most often hosted in secondary or tertiary structures related to the regional scale structures. The gold is deposited from hydrothermal fluids which originated deep in the earths crust with temperatures of 250 to 400 degrees Celsius. The fault and fracture zones act as permeable conduits for the fluids to migrate. Gold is carried in solution until the fluid reaches a point where either there is a chemical reaction with the country rock or changes in temperature and/or pressure cause the gold to precipitate. The gold and associated metals precipitates out of solution along with quartz vein material. Mesothermal type deposits can be recognized by the fact that the host rocks show the affects of the fault/fracture origins. Structural evidence such as folds in bedding or pinches, swells, and pods in quartz veins is characteristic of ductile deformation and can be often found in at mineralized mesothermal quartz veins. Mesothermal quartz carbonate veins typically include pyrite and arsenopyrite with the gold. Gold can be pure, and be found as free grains or grains intergrown with sulphide minerals. The gold can also occur within the crystal lattice of arsenopyrite or as electrum, a gold mineral containing between 20 to 80 percent silver. Mineralized mesothermal quartz carbonate veins are characterized by iron rich hydrothermal carbonate alteration assemblages, which are pervasive with respect to the host rock.
Mineralization
The style of mineralization at the Guazapares Property is characterized by gold and silver bearing veins and vein breccias occurring within and/or at the intersection of numerous north - northwest structures (San Francisco and San Antonio Fault Systems) and west - northwest structures (San Antonio and El Cantilito Fault Systems). These are multi-phase deposits which produced several generations of cross-cutting veins, veinlets, breccias and related hydrothermal alteration. Alteration ranges from peripheral propylitization to argillic alteration to strong to intense silicification, often with adularia development. This mineralization is physically expressed as quartz vein stockworks, silicified hydrothermal breccias, and vuggy, quartz-filled expansion breccias. At many such deposits, such as those nearby at Palmarejo (Gustin, 2004), there are at least two stages of gold-silver mineralization. The first is characterized by pyrite, sphalerite, galena and argentite in structurally controlled quartz vein breccias. There is often a later fine-grained higher-grade gold-silver, base metal-deficient phase cross-cutting the first (Durgin, 2007).
Numerous polymetallic vein showings have been the subject of much of the exploration work at the Guazapares Property.
The San Francisco Area was found to contain mineralized quartz veins, vein breccias, and quartz vein stockwork zones comprising and area of approximately 500 by 700 meters. The mineralized zone trends predominately northwest, with the highest grade mineralization occurring at intersections with the west, northwest, and northeast trending faults. The San Francisco area is characterized by stockwork type mineralization, with silicification being the major alteration.
The San Antonio Area consists of two main mineralized veins trending northwest and west-northwest. The mineralization covers an area of 500 by 300 meters and is observed as quartz veins and quartz stockworked veins. These exhibit textures of multiple phases of hydrothermal activity.
The El Cantilito Area is a mineralized zone found related to west and northeast trending structures where high concentrations of gold and silver have been found. The mineralization style is quartz veins, quartz stockwork, and silicification observed to cover a 500 by 350 meter area within the felsic volcanic rocks.
The Montana de Oro Area lies to the north of the Guazapares Property. This showing is characterized by mineralized structures trending north-northeast, where development of mineralized shoots was found to contain high gold concentrations.
Mineral Deposits
Geological mapping and sampling over an area of four square kilometers has outlined numerous mineralized areas within the project area.
According to our VP of Exploration, the Guazapares property consists of a series of sub-vertical, brecciated, quartz-rich zones that outcrop within an area of approximately four square kilometers and have a strike length of over two kilometers. The mineralized areas and identified drilling targets include four main zones: San Antonio, San Francisco, El Cantilito and Montaña de Oro. The mineralization is characterized by silver-gold low-sulphidation veins, locally overprinted by high-level high-grade gold-silver quartz veins. The mineralized areas and veins are structurally-controlled by north-northwest striking faults and west-northwest trending faults that have favored the development of high-grade mineralized shoots.
Mineralization at Guazapares is characterized by gold-silver veins and vein-breccias occurring within and/or at the intersection of numerous north-northwest structures (San Francisco and San Antonio fault systems) and west-northwest structures (San Antonio and El Cantilito fault systems).
On the basis the field evidence, all four mineralized areas have been considered to be prospective in which three of them San Francisco, San Antonio and El Cantilito have been followed up with initial geological mapping, sampling and drilling.
The San Francisco area is characterized by mineralized quartz veins, vein/breccias and quartz veins stockworked zones covering an area of approximately 500 x 700 meters. The mineralized zone trends predominantly northwest developing high-grade mineral concentration within the intersection of the west, northwest and northeast trending faults. The San Francisco area includes mainly stockwork mineralization and silicification, exhibiting small and localized areas of vuggy quartz within the volcanic rocks. Detailed rock chip sampling along these mineralized zones has returned high silver values ranging from trace to 2,160 g/t Ag, where gold values vary from 1.17 to 2.28 g/t Au.
Early mining, by previous owners, was focused mainly on the San Antonio vein domain where high-grade gold mineralization sampling has returned values of 42.6 g/t Au and 1,100 g/t Ag present in underground workings. Two main mineralized veins domain trending northwest and west-northwest have been identified within this targets area. Mineralization comprises an area of 500 x 300 meters and consists of quartz veins and quartz stockworked veins exhibiting multiple pulses of hydrothermal activity. Assay results from rock chip samples have returned gold values registering from trace to 8.76 g/t Au.
The El Cantilito area is a mineralized zone mainly along west and northeast trending structures where high concentrations of gold are common, varying from 1.86 to 8.39 g/t Au and exhibiting silver values from trace to 656 g/t Ag. El Cantilito is characterized by quartz veins, quartz stockwork mineralization and silicification developed in an area of approximately 500 x 350 meters within the hosting volcanic rocks.
The Montaña de Oro area is a newly identified target to the north of the Guazapares project. Montaña de Oro is characterized by mineralized structures trending north-northeast, where development of mineralized rock-shoots containing frequent high gold values (5.39, 7.22, 1.75, 19.7 and 2.5 g/t Au).
Most of Mexoro’s exploration efforts have been concentrated on the San Antonio and San Francisco vein domains although the vein and breccias textures, structures, alteration and metal association suggest that mineralization areas at Guazapares are of low-sulphidation style. According to our VP of Exploration, these structural and mineralized systems are open towards both the north and south. Detailed field work will continue in all identified targets in conjunction with building road access and drilling platform on selected drilling locations.
A 19 drillhole program has been completed on the Guazapares project totalling 2,670 meters. The most recent drilling results are from 16 completed holes drilled at the San Francisco Este, San Francisco Centro and El Cantilito concessions, three of the main targets identified in the project. All drill holes in the San Francisco Centro and El Cantilito concessions intersected intervals of gold and silver mineralization. The drill holes are reported both as gold and silver values, as well as gold equivalent values (Au Eq.). The formula for calculating the gold equivalent values is as follows:
·
For holes GU-01 to GU-03, Au Eq. was calculated using a factor = 56.32 (gold and silver prices on 20-26 October 2007). Gold equivalent is based upon metal prices of US$757 oz Au and US$13.44 oz Ag in terms of those prices 1 g/t Au = 56.32 g/t Ag ($757/$13.44)
·
For holes GU-04, GU-08 and GU-10 to GU-16, Au Eq. was calculated using a factor = 53.33 (gold and silver prices on 18-20 January 2008). Gold equivalent is based upon metal prices of US$800 oz Au and US$15 oz Ag in terms of those prices 1 g/t Au = 53.33 g/t Ag ($800/$15)
·
Formula to calculate gold equivalent - Au Eq.= Au (g/t) + (Ag (g/t)/($ozAu/$ozAg))
San Francisco Este Target
The San Francisco Este target is characterized by mineralized veins/breccias, quartz veins stockworked zones. The mineralized and altered zone on this target trends predominantly northwest. Drillholes GU-04 to GU-07 and GU-17 to GU-18 were designed to test the silver (± gold) mineralization identified on surface. GU-04 intersected 9.55 meters with 2.17 g/t Au Eq from surface down to 10 meters depth. Drillhole GU-08 encountered a mineralized interval of 5.20 meters with 1.68 g/t Au Eq. These intervals complement previous results for the surface sampling where we reported silver values from trace to 2,160 g/t Ag. Drillholes GU-05, GU-06 and GU-07 reported only gold and silver anomalies and did not intersect economic mineralization.
San Francisco Centro Target
The San Francisco Centro target is characterized by quartz veins, veins/breccias and quartz veins stockworked areas exhibiting multiple pulses of hydrothermal activity. Mineralization in San Francisco Este tends to cluster in mineralized-shoots developed primarily in the intersection of main structures. Drillholes GU-08 to GU-13 were planned to test the east-west mineralized structure identified during the mapping and sampling process in the central part of the concessions. All drillholes intersected mineralization from surface down to 100 meters depth. Drillhole GU-10 intersected 13.75 meters with 2.75 g/t AU Eq. and 22.98 meters with 2.80 g/t Au Eq. from 8.15 meters down to 85 meters depth. Drillhole GU-13 intercepted 9.0 meters with 3.63 g/t Au Eq. and 4.50 meters with 1.56 g/t Au Eq.
El Cantilito Target
El Cantilito is a mineralized zone produced mainly along northeast vein-structures where mineralization tends to cluster in mineralized-shoots and mineralized stock works developed in structural jogs and/mineralized intersection of main structures. Drillholes GU-14 to GU-16 and GU-19 were designed to test the outcropping mineralized structures. Drillholes GU-15 and GU-16 were collared in the west margin of the known limit of the mineralized structure and it appears to have opened up the exploration further west along El Cantilito structures. Drillhole GU-15 was stopped at 168 meters depth still in mineralization intersected 17.06 meters with 1.26 g/t Au Eq. including 1.30 meters with 6.10 g/t Au Eq. Drillhole GU-16 intercepted 18.92 meters with 4.33 g/t Au Eq. including 7.74 meters with 9.10 g/t Au Eq.
Drill holes GU-05 to Gu-07, and Drill Holes GU 17 - GU 19 did not intersect economical mineralization. A summary of the mineralized drill intercepts can be reviewed in the section headed Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and on our website at .
The following is a map of the drillhole locations:
In May 2008 we moved a drill rig onto the Guazapares property to commence the second round of drilling. A 6,000 meter diamond drilling program commenced in June 2008. The drill program tested alteration and mineralization targets, as well as additional areas identified during a drill campaign completed in December 2007. A total of 12 additional holes were drilled.
The three main target areas include San Antonio, San Francisco, and El Cantilito. The Drilling was to initially test alteration and mineralization centers located along these structural trends. The high priority target is where San Antonio, San Francisco, and El Cantilito mineralized structures intersect each other in the central part of the project area (drill holes GU-20, GU-22 and GU-23 are located within that target). Continuation along strike and at depth of the Antonio, San Francisco, and El Cantilito, mineralized structures are anticipated to be tested with this second stage diamond drilling program. Drilling consisted of twelve 150-200 meter drill holes, with deeper drilling reserved for areas that show the best results. The results of the remaining 9 holes are pending.
In addition, targets Montana de Oro and Blanquita, which were identified during recent detailed mapping and geochemical sampling program at 1:1,000 scale, are anticipated to be also tested during this drill program.
The Guazapares property is without known reserves. Our proposed exploration programs are exploratory in nature.
Infrastructure
Guazapares has the infrastructure in place to support a mining operation. It has diesel generated electrical power, water, railroad transportation within 20 kilometers and an all weather road access all year round. There is trained labor for mining available in the area.
Budget
The total exploration budget for 2009 is $1,242,255. The expenditures are broken down as follows:
See “Plan of Operations” in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” section for further information.
Encino Gordo Property
Location
The Encino Gordo project is located in the Barranca section of Chihuahua State in Mexico, and according to data publicly published by the Mexican Government, it is at the interphase between the two main volcanic groups that form the bulk of the Sierra Madre Occidental. The Encino Gordo Property is 3.2 miles west of the Guazapares Property. The location is 220 kilometers to the southwest of Chihuahua City. The property is accessible by an all weather dirt road along the southwest side of the property.
Claim Status
Sunburst Mining owns two concessions (Title 220149 and 220148) and has the option to acquire 100% of the three other properties listed below, subject to a 2.5% NSR and making the scheduled property payments.
The concessions not owned by Sunburst Mining are owned by MRT. The following table is a summary of the concessions on the Encino Gordo property:
1)
Amendments to the Mexican mining laws took effect with the publication on December 21, 2005, of certain amendments to the Ley Federal de Derechos, the act that sets forth the mining taxes' rates. Effective January 1, 2006, this Mexican Government legislation has converted all of the former exploration concessions in Mexico, which carried a maximum six year life, and exploitive concessions, which had a 25 year life, into general concessions with a 50 year life from the date they were registered with the Mining Registry. The concessions are automatically registered as soon as the concession
mining rights are paid and no further paper work is required. These claims are currently in good standing and held by Sunburst Mining. There will be no special documents sent to us to reflect this change.
(2)
Concessions are 100% owned by Sunburst Mining with no further payments to be made.
(3)
The total payments for us to acquire 100% of these concessions from the concession owners are as follows: June 30, 2006 - $10,000 (this amount has been paid), December 31, 2006 - $25,000 (this payment was deferred until March 31, 2007 and payment was made on March 26, 2007), December 31, 2007 - $50,000 ($20,000 of this payment was made on January 3, 2008 and balance was paid on February 29, 2008), December 31, 2008 - $75,000 (we are currently in default of this payment and we are renegotiating the payment terms), December 31, 2009 - $125,000 and December 31, 2010 - $200,000. These scheduled payments need to be made to keep our agreement in good standing. Failure to make the payments would cancel our agreements to acquire these concessions.
History
The Encino Gordo Property, covering 1,042 hectares (approximately 2,575 acres), is situated near an old mining district with a lengthy production history, according to public records. Old mining records indicate that mining operations commenced three kilometers east of this site in the 17th century. Most of the production from those mines came from high-grade vein deposits mined by crude underground methods. To the east of Encino Gordo, the main Guazapares breccia veins were discovered in or around 1830. The major period of production was from 1870 to 1900 when there were four silver pan amalgamation mills in operation. Although those deposits contain both gold and silver, the early mills could not recover the gold as it is very fine and occurs along cleavage planes in the pyrite. The mills of the time could only process the oxidized portions of the veins, and the unoxidized, sulfide-bearing material was usually left in the mines as pillars. The principal mine owner of the properties east of Encino Gordo died in 1890, after which the mines of Guazapares slowly sank into disrepair and closed by 1900. In 1905, a U.S. company consolidated most of the properties to the east of Encino Gordo and reopened some of the mine workings. That company ran into financial difficulties during 1907 and work halted. Ramon Valenzuela then acquired the properties to the east of Encino Gordo and operated a five stamp mill until 1912. Noranda Exploration, Inc. briefly optioned concessions in the area in the early 1990’s. Kennecott optioned the core concessions east of Encino Gordo in 1993-94 and drilled a few holes in one of the concessions to the east of Encino Gordo. The Encino Gordo property has never been in production.
Mineral Deposits
Blackstone Resources Inc. hired Reliance Geological Services of Vancouver, Canada in 1996 to evaluate the results of a geological and geochemical exploration program on the Encino Gordo Property. The subsequent work revealed results that were judged worthy of a second phase of exploration. Our surface sampling has indicated the presence of mineralized structures, including gold and silver anomalies on the property. Several gold and copper anomalous areas were also identified. The property is at the very early stages of exploration, though, and much more work is needed before any decisions can be made as to the viability of the property.
Structure Empalme
The Empalme vein outcrops northwest of the Elyca structure, inside the Encino Gordo Property and has been mapped for approximately 150 meters. Workings on the breccia-vein consist of two old shafts now filled with water. The host rocks consist of a sequence of volcaniclastic sediments overlain by tuffaceous dacites with moderate silicification and supergene argillic alteration.
Cienega Vein
Our exploration shows that the Cienega vein outcrops at one location along a stream bed within the Encino Gordo Property. It consists of brecciated quartz and contains 2% to 3% disseminated pyrite hosted by brown volcaniclastics.
Arroyo Los Laureles Vein
The vein outcrops in the southeast limit of the San Miguel claim in Arryo Los Laurels. The host rocks consist of intensely fractured volcaniclastic arenites, tuffs and dacites.
The Encino Gordo Property is without known reserves. Our proposed exploration programs are exploratory in nature.
Infrastructure
The Encino Gordo Property is accessible year round by all weather roads. There is no local electricity or water currently available. We will need to supply our own diesel generated electrical power.
Budget
The total 2009 exploration budget for Encino Gordo is $739,232. The exploration expenditures are as follows:
See “Plan of Operations” in the “Management‘s Discussion and Analysis” section for further information.
Sahuayacan Property
Location
The Sahuayacan Property is located near the Chihuahua-Sonora State border approximately 275 kilometers east-southeast of the city of Chihuahua and 50 kilometers south-southwest of the town of Mycoba in the state of Chihuahua, Mexico. The property is accessible by all weather dirt roads running through the center of the property.
Claim Status
The Company has recently optioned 14 mineral concessions totaling 649 hectares, which old mining records indicate cover an epithermal quartz vein system. The concessions are owned by Minera Emilio and optioned by Sunburst Mining. The following table is a summary of the concessions on the Sahuayacan Property:
(1)
Amendments to the Mexican mining laws took effect with the publication on December 21, 2005, of certain amendments to the Ley Federal de Derechos, the act that sets forth the mining taxes' rates. Effective January 1, 2006, this Mexican Government legislation has converted all of the former exploration concessions in Mexico, which carried a maximum six year life, and exploitive concessions, which had a 25 year life, into general concessions with a 50 year life from the date they were registered with the Mining Registry. The concessions are automatically registered as soon as the concession mining rights are paid and no further paper work is required. These claims are currently in good standing and held by Sunburst Mining. There will be no special documents sent to us to reflect this change.
(2)
The Company must pay Minera Emilio a total of $282,000 for these concessions. Of this, $10,000 was paid on December 2005 and $20,000 was paid on October 25, 2006. The December 2005 payment was made as “good faith payment” as we negotiated to acquire the properties. That payment has been applied to the total purchase price. The Company must pay $2,500 per month for twelve months on the 21st day of each month beginning on August 21, 2006. The monthly payments of $2,500 have all been paid for a total $30,000. Beginning on August 21, 2007, the Company must pay $3,500 per month on the 21st of each month for twelve months. The monthly payments of $3,500 have all been paid to September 21, 2008 for a total of 12 months and $42,000. Beginning on August 21, 2008, the Company must pay $5,000 per month on the 21st of each month until the balance of $282,000 is paid (36 months). As of May 31, 2009, we are in default of the March, April and May 2009 payments. We expect to make these payments in June 2009.
(3)
This concession was originally included in the “Promise to Contract an Option Agreement” between Minera Emilio and Jose Emilio Touche Creel on December 5, 2005, whereby Sunburst Mining set forth an offer to enter into and execute an exploration and option to purchase an undivided 100% title in and to the mining concessions located in the Sahuayacan Property. This concession was not included in the Exploration and Sale Option Agreement of Mining Concession contract dated June 21, 2006. At the present time, Mexican public records show that this concession has been cancelled; however, there is an official letter issued by the Mexican Mining Director General at that time which notifies that cancellation was revoked. Minera Emilio has the option to reinstate this concession.
(4)
The Company must pay the following concession representatives a total of $255,000 for this concession: Leopoldo Rascon Lopez, Sabino Amador Rascon Polanco and Rene Muro Lugo. Each concession representative owns 33.3% of the total Segundo Santo Nino title. As of May 31, 2009, we’ve paid $85,000 of the payments required till November 2008 and $3,333 for the May 15, 2009 payment. The balance of the $20,000 payment of May 15, 2009 is overdue and we are renegotiating the payment terms), November 15, 2009 - $30,000 and May 15, 2010 - $120,000.
(5)
The Company must pay the following payments to Maria Luisa Wong Madrigal to acquire 100% ownership of these concessions: January 25, 2008 - $33,000 (paid), July 25, 2008 - $33,000 (paid), January 25, 2009 - $34,000 (this payment is outstanding and we are renegotiating the payment terms) and July 25, 2010 - $500,000. These scheduled payments must be made to keep our option to acquire these concessions in good standing. Failure to make the payments would cancel our options to acquire these concessions.
History
The main vein in the area, the Santo Nino vein was the focus of a small scale underground gold mining operation in the late 1800’s and early 1900’s, with at least three main underground mine access drifts supplying feed to a centrally located mill, which is still present. The mine was closed at the time of the Mexican revolution. The Santo Nino vein system has not been evaluated using modern techniques or explored by drilling.
Geology
Our initial exploration work on the property, as part of due diligence before acquiring the property, indicates that the geology exposed in the project area reveals a complex geologic history. We believe that the basement in the area is composed of dark gray-green massive, fractured and folded phyllitic metasedimentary and metavolcanic rocks in contact with Lower to Middle Cretaceous banded shale and fine grained arenite. Our exploration suggests that these phyllitic rocks are in contact with a Tertiary volcaniclastic sequence that occurs as intercalated fine to coarse grained tuffaceous sediments, volcanic breccias and flows which range in composition from andesite to rhyolite. Our exploration suggests that the entire sequence has been locally crosscut by at least two intrusive units of diorite to rhyolite composition possibly represent synvolcanic hypabyssal intrusions. The Tertiary volcanic sequence is the main host to the gold/silver quartz vein system present in the project area.
Mineral Deposit
A surface geological mapping and sampling crew evaluated the property from September 2006 through December 2006. Mapping on the property was completed at a scale of 1:5,000 with individual veins being mapped at a scale of 1:1,000. To date, a total of 300 samples have been taken from the property, including 101 rock chip and channel samples, 41 stream sediment samples and 158 soil samples. The underground workings were evaluated for safe entry and the mine has been deemed unsafe to open. A limited part of the mine was opened and bulk samples were taken. The Sahuayacan Property is without known reserves. Our proposed exploration program is exploratory in nature.
Santo Nino Vein
Our initial mapping indicates the Santo Nino vein consists of milky quartz and crackle breccia accompanied by iron oxides and veinletts of crustiform, banded and chalcedonic quartz which is suggestive of an epithermal origin. Our sampling of the rocks shows that mineralization presently recognized within the vein consists of chalcopyrite, malachite, azurite, pyrite and abundant iron oxides with manganese oxides. The predominant alteration adjacent to the vein is moderate to strong argillic alteration with local quartz and sericite which forms a halo to the vein which is locally up to 50 meters wide. Further from the vein this moderate to strong argillic zone is transitional to a zone of weak argillic alteration accompanied by supergene oxidation, and propylitic alteration. This weak argillic alteration zone is more than 200 meters wide. Our initial exploration has shown that the vein is locally offset along at least one left lateral fault (in the Mina Cobriza area).
Our initial exploration shows that a second quartz vein parallel to and west of the Santo Nino vein has been mapped (“Santo Nino Segundo” vein). The northern termination of the Santo Nino vein appears to represent a fault offset (left lateral fault) possibly offsetting the mineralizing system 200 meters to the west. Here the wide weak argillic alteration zone (hangingwall to the vein system) is present and continues to the north-northwest for more than 500 meters to Sahuayacancito.
La Cumbre:
The La Cumbre area covers the local hill top located approximately 500 meters east of the Santo Nino vein. Cominco (now Teck Cominco Limited), drilled at least three holes in this area in the mid 1990s. Drill results have not been obtained from this work.
Our initial work in the area shows that the stratigraphy in the La Cumbre area consists of tertiary volcanics composed of porphyritic andesitic flows intercalated with fine to coarse volcaniclastic sediments overlain by rhyolite tuffs and flows. Tectonic breccias and stockwork zones are accompanied by veins and veinletts of chalcedonic quartz with iron oxides (hematite), manganese and very fine pyrite. Four brecciated structures have been identified to date in our preliminary exploration. Alteration consists of pervasive silicification with weak to moderate massive chalcedonic quartz in the matrix of the breccias, accompanied by a weak argillic alteration of the wall rock. Numerous old surface trenches are present in this area and will be the subject of future sampling and mapping.
Drilling program
Reconnaissance and detailed mapping (1:1,000) programs in the Sahuayacan project have identified four significant drilling targets: Santo Niño, La Cumbre, Cerro Cacho and Santa Teresa.
To date a total of approximately 2,000 meters have been drilled in 13 diamond drillholes. Eight holes were drilled in the Santo Niño vein-structure (SDH-1, through SDH-4 and SDH-7 through SDH-10), two diamond drillholes (SDH-5 and SDH-6) were drilled in La Cumbre mineralized area and two holes (SDH-11 and SDH-12) on the Santa Theresa vein.
SDH-1 through SDH-4 and SDH-7 through SDH-10 were collared along the Santo Niño mineralized vein. Drillhole SDH-1 intersected two zones of gold mineralization over the 165.05 meters drilled in this hole, including 7.50 meters with 2.56 g/t Au and 11.00 meters with 2.24 g/t Au including 8.00 meters with 2.98 g/t Au.
Drillhole
From (m)
To (m)
Interval (m)
Au (g/t)
Ag (g/t)
SDH-1
65.00
66.50
1.50
2.02
0.8
66.50
68.00
1.50
8.09
2.8
68.00
69.50
1.50
0.26
1.2
69.50
71.00
1.50
0.233
1.3
71.00
72.50
1.50
2.23
2.1
96.50
98.00
1.50
6.13
49.4
98.00
98.50
0.50
9.24
21.1
98.50
99.50
1.00
0.529
0.7
99.50
100.50
1.00
1.695
1.2
100.50
101.50
1.00
1.415
9.2
101.50
102.50
1.00
3.81
10.5
102.50
103.50
1.00
0.038
0.09
103.50
104.50
1.00
1.00
5.9
104.50
105.50
1.00
0.363
7.3
105.50
106.50
1.00
0.341
9.6
106.50
107.50
1.00
0.111
10.5
The remaining holes did not return encouraging assay results. The results from drillholes SDH-3 and SDH-4 showed gold anomalies varying from 0.01 to 0.02 g/t. Geological and structural mapping survey along the Santo Niño vein has identified a north-east structure that is displacing the mineralized zone. Current field investigations are aimed to define in more detail the structural setting on this part of the mineralized vein-structure.
Drillholes SDH-5 and SDH-6 were collared in the La Cumbre zone. The two holes intersected mineralization from surface to 175 meters. Only the SDH-5 intersected several two meters wide intercepts with gold mineralization. Our VP Exploration believes that the gold in these zones is free gold and is contained in the fractures in the oxides. As the drilling consumes massive quantities of water, we believe the free gold has been washed away from the core. As a result, we plan to re-drill the La Cumbre zone using reverse circulation drilling to ensure all the particles are captured while drilling. No assurance, though, may be given that any gold values will be found when it is redrilled using reverse circulation drilling.
The final area tested at Sahuayacan was the Santa Theresa target, where two drillholes (SDH-11 and SDH-12) were completed. SDH-12 has intersected a mineralized zone, consisting of 7.5 meters with 56.01 g/t Au and 283.22 g/t Ag.
Hole ID
From (m)
To (m)
Interval (m)
Au (g/t)
Ag (g/t)
SDH-12
74.50
76.00
1.50
6.21
76.00
77.50
1.50
0.716
8.5
77.50
79.00
1.50
268.75
79.00
80.50
1.50
2.46
39.8
80.50
82.00
1.50
1.93
4.8
Despite these results, the Sahuayacan Property has no known or estimated resources or reserves. A summary of the assay results of the mineralized zones intersected is provided in “Plan of Operations” in the “Management‘s Discussion and Analysis” section.
Infrastructure
The Sahuayacan Property is accessible year round by all weather roads. There is no local electricity or water currently available. We will need to supply our own diesel generated electrical power.
Budget
We spent $557,000 from January 2007 to February 2008, on an initial geochemical and geophysical exploration program on the Sahuayacan Property.
The total exploration budget for Sahuayacan for 2009 is $849,686. The breakdown of the budget is as follows:
See “Plan of Operations” in the “Management‘s Discussion and Analysis” section for further information.
Employees
The Company currently has 14 persons working for Sunburst Mining in Mexico, including three geologists, field staff and administrative personnel. All of these persons are provided to Sunburst Mining under third party contract, either directly or via a personnel service agency. Our president began work on March 1, 2007. The president’s is a full time position with a salary of $156,000 per year plus incentive stock options, stock awards, living allowance and benefits. The job entails spending time in the field directing the exploration projects on our four properties. Other than the president, all mineral exploration and operations are contracted out to third parties. In the event that our exploration projects are successful and warrant putting any of our properties into production, all such operations would be contracted out to third parties. Also, we rely on members of management to handle all matters related to business development and business operations.
Office
We currently maintain an office at C. General Retana #706, Col. San Felipe, Chihuahua, Chih, Mexico, CP 31203. The lease for this office will expire on March 1, 2011, which commenced on March 1, 2009, and we pay approximately $682 per month for it.
As described above, we have interests in the Cieneguita, Guazapares, Encino Gordo and Sahuayacan properties.
ITEM 3.