Item 2. Properties
Our principal corporate offices are located in Houston, Texas; Canonsburg, Pennsylvania; and Sydney, Australia.
Location
Property
Interest
Size
(Sq. Ft.)
Use
Canonsburg, PA
Owned
124,000
Corporate office
Houston, TX
Leased
24,300
Corporate office
Sydney, Australia
Leased
15,527
Corporate office
In the U.S., we also lease and maintain five additional regional offices (called “Area Offices”) located in (1) Albany, New York, (2) Alpharetta, Georgia, (3) Charlotte, North Carolina, (4) Louisville, Kentucky and (5) Phoenix, Arizona. The principal responsibilities of these offices are to manage the leasing of tower space on a local basis, maintain the towers already located in the region and service our customers in the area.
As of December 31, 2004, 8,816 of the sites on which our U.S. towers are located, or approximately 83% of our U.S. portfolio, were leased, subleased or licensed, while 1,796 or approximately 17% were owned in fee or through
a permanent easement or similar interest. In the U.S., 19% of the sites are occupied by guyed towers, which are located on an average of approximately 143,322 square feet of land (with square footage of individual sites varying widely). The remaining 81% are non-guyed (monopole, self-support, etc.), which are located on an average of approximately 22,389 square feet of land (with square footage of individual sites varying widely). These tracts support the towers, equipment shelters and, where applicable, guy wires to stabilize the structure. The actual square footage of any particular site depends on a number of things, including the topography of the site, the size of the area the landlord is willing to lease, the number of customers locating on the tower and the type of structure at the site, as self-supporting and monopole tower structures typically require less land area than a guyed tower. Our land leases, subleases and licenses generally have five- or ten-year initial terms and frequently contain one or more renewal options.
In Australia, as of December 31, 2004, for 1,386 of our 1,388 towers in Australia site tenure takes the form of a land lease or occupation license, and we own the remaining two sites in fee. The sites range from approximately 250 square feet to 2,500 square feet. Our land leases generally have terms up to 15 years through sequential leases and options to renew.
I tem 3. Legal Proceedings
We are periodically involved in legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. Most of these proceedings involve disputes with landlords, vendors, collection matters involving bankrupt customers, zoning and variance matters, condemnation or wrongful termination claims. While the outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, management does not expect any pending matters to have a material adverse effect on us.
Item 4. Submissions of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
None.
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Price Range of Common Stock
The Common Stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “CCI”. The following table sets forth for the calendar periods indicated the high and low sales prices per share of the Common Stock as reported by NYSE.
As of February 28, 2005, there were approximately 948 holders of record of the Common Stock.
Dividend Policy
We have never declared nor paid any cash dividends on our common stock. It is our current policy to retain our cash provided by operating activities to finance the expansion of our operations, to reduce our debt or to purchase our own stock (either common or preferred). Future declaration and payment of cash dividends, if any, will be determined in light of the then-current conditions, including our earnings, cash flow from operations, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by the terms of our debt instruments and the terms of the certificates of designations in respect of our convertible preferred stock.
The holders of our 8¼% convertible preferred stock and our 6.25% convertible preferred stock are entitled to receive cumulative dividends at the rate of 8¼% per annum and 6.25% per annum, respectively, payable on a quarterly basis. We have the option to pay the dividends on such series of preferred stock in cash or in shares of our common stock. We have historically paid such dividends with shares of our common stock, and we expect to continue to do so. The number of shares of our common stock required to be issued to pay such dividends is dependent upon the current market value of our common stock at the time such dividend is required to be paid. For the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004, dividends on our 8¼% convertible preferred stock were paid with 4,290,000, 2,190,000 and 1,140,000 shares of common stock, respectively, and dividends on our 6.25% convertible preferred stock were paid with 6,338,153, 3,253,469 and 1,498,361 shares of common stock, respectively. The shares of common stock issued to pay such dividends will continue to have a dilutive effect upon the shares of our common stock otherwise outstanding, and declines in the fair market value of our common stock will increase the effective dilution. In 2002, 2003 and 2004, as allowed by the Deposit Agreement relating to dividend payments on the 8¼% convertible preferred stock, we purchased 3,745,000, 1,825,000 and 845,000 shares of common stock, respectively, from the dividend paying agent for a total of $12.2 million, $12.4 million and $12.2 million in cash, respectively. We utilized cash from an unrestricted investment subsidiary for such stock purchases, effectively satisfying that portion of the dividend requirements with cash. We have also purchased shares of our common stock on other occasions (see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources”). We may choose to continue issuances and purchases of stock in the future in order to offset dilution caused by the issuance of common stock as dividends on our preferred
stock. As of February 28, 2005, we had approximately $150.4 million in cash remaining at our unrestricted investment subsidiary which could be used for future purchases of common stock.
Issuance of Unregistered Securities
We made no unregistered sales of equity securities during 2004.
Equity Compensation Plans
Certain information with respect to our equity compensation plans is set forth in Item 12 herein.
Purchases of Equity Securities
The following table summarizes information with respect to purchases of our equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2004:
(1) On October 27, 2004, in connection with the expiration of restrictions on certain restricted common stock issued to our employees, we purchased 153,084 shares of common stock in private transactions from employees electing to sell a portion of their shares in order to satisfy their minimum tax withholding liabilities. We may elect to make similar purchases of our common stock in the future in connection with the expiration of restrictions with respect to restricted common stock we have issued or may issue. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”.
(2) In December 2004, we paid our quarterly dividends on the 8¼% convertible preferred stock by issuing a total of 245,000 shares of our common stock. As allowed by the Deposit Agreement relating to dividend payments on such preferred stock, on December 15, 2004, we purchased the 245,000 shares of common stock from the dividend paying agent in a private transaction. We may choose to continue issuances and purchases of stock in the future in order to offset dilution caused by the issuance of common stock as dividends on our preferred stock. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”.
(3) In addition to the common stock purchases shown in the table, on December 8, 2004, in accordance with the terms of a publicly announced tender offer commenced on November 8, 2004, we utilized $86.9 million of our cash to purchase, at a price of 179.505% of the outstanding principal amount (excluding accrued interest through the purchase date), $48.0 million in outstanding principal amount of our outstanding 4% senior notes, including accrued interest thereon of $0.8 million. At the time of purchase, the 4% senior notes acquired were convertible into 4,430,656 shares of our common stock. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”.
Item 6. Selected Financial Data
The selected historical consolidated financial and other data for the Company set forth below for each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 2004, and as of December 31, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004, have been derived from the consolidated financial statements of the Company. We have various transactions recorded in our financial statements that are non-recurring in nature, such as gains and losses on purchases and redemptions of our debt and preferred stock. On June 28, 2004, we signed a definitive agreement to sell our UK subsidiary (“CCUK”) to an affiliate of National Grid Transco Plc (“National Grid”). As a result, we have restated our financial statements to present CCUK’s assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows as amounts from discontinued operations. Such restatements have been made for all periods presented. On August 31, 2004, we completed the sale of CCUK. Prior periods have also been restated to reflect the correction of errors for certain non-cash items relating to our lease accounting practices in February of 2005. See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the restatement. The information set forth below should be read in conjunction with
“Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”.
(a) Corporate development expenses represent costs incurred in connection with acquisitions and development of new business initiatives. These expenses consist primarily of allocated compensation, benefits and overhead costs that are not directly related to the administration or management of existing towers.
(b) Represents charges related to the issuance of stock and stock options to certain employees and executives, and the issuance of common stock and stock options in connection with certain acquisitions.
(c) For the year ended December 31, 2002, includes gains of $79.1 million on debt purchases and charges of $29.1 million for losses from, and write-downs of, investments in unconsolidated affiliates. For the year ended December 31, 2003, includes losses of $119.4 million (as restated) on debt and preferred stock purchases and redemptions and a loss on the issuance of the interest in Crown Atlantic of $11.2 million (as restated). For the year ended December 31, 2004, includes losses of $77.7 million on debt purchases and repayments.
(d) Includes gains of $95.8 million on purchases of preferred stock in 2002 and net losses of $1.6 million on purchases of preferred stock in 2003.
(e) For purposes of computing the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings represent income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, minority interests, cumulative effect of change in accounting principle and fixed charges. Fixed charges consist of interest expense, the interest component of operating leases, amortization of deferred financing costs and dividends on preferred stock classified as liabilities. For the years ended December 31, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004, earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges by $239.0 million, $374.3 million, $336.9 million, $466.3 million and $312.5 million, respectively.
(f) The 2000, 2001 and 2002 amounts represent the 12¾% exchangeable preferred stock, the 8¼% convertible preferred stock and the 6.25% convertible preferred stock. The 2003 and 2004 amounts represent the 8¼% convertible preferred stock and the 6.25% convertible preferred stock.
The adjustments to amounts previously presented in selected financial data for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 2001 are summarized as follows. See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for tables summarizing the adjustments to amounts for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003.
The decrease in total assets of $25.3 million for 2000 consists of the decrease in property and equipment of $38.6 million and an increase in deferred site rental receivable of $13.3 million. The decrease in total assets of $56.0 million for 2001 consists of the decrease in property and equipment of $75.4 million and an increase in deferred site rental receivable of $19.4 million.
The following tables describe the effects of the restatement on the loss from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net loss and the related per share amounts for the years ended
December 31, 2000 and 2001. See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for tables describing the effects of the restatement for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003.
The following table describes the cumulative effects of the restatement on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2002.
It em 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following discussion is intended to assist in understanding our consolidated financial condition as of December 31, 2004 and our consolidated results of operations for each year in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004. The statements in this discussion regarding the industry outlook, our expectations regarding the future performance of our businesses and the other non-historical statements in this discussion are forward-looking statements. See “-Cautionary Statement for Purposes of Forward-Looking Statements”. This discussion should be read in conjunction with “Item 6. Selected Financial Data” and “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”. Prior periods have been restated to reflect the correction of errors for certain non-cash items relating to our lease accounting practices in February of 2005. See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the restatement.
Overview
Our primary business is leasing towers that we own to major wireless service providers in the two countries in which we operate - the United States (U.S.) and Australia. Our customers use our tower sites to locate antennas and other equipment necessary for the transmission of wireless signals for mobile telephones and other devices. This leasing activity represents approximately 89.0% of our consolidated revenues. We also provide network services in the U.S. which consist primarily of project management services for antenna installations on our company-owned tower sites on behalf of wireless service providers.
Our site rental revenues are derived from the core businesses we are seeking to grow by increasing the utilization of our existing tower site assets. Typically, these revenues result from long-term (5-10 year) contracts with our customers with renewal terms at the option of the customer. As a result, in any given year more than 95% of our site rental revenue has been contracted for in a prior year and is of a recurring nature. When we discuss growth in this core business, we are generally describing the rate at which we are adding revenues to the previously contracted base, sometimes referred to as the revenue “run-rate”.
The network services business is not typically recurring and is largely incidental to our site rental business. It usually has lower margins and is not a key to our future growth. Such activities are generally pursued at the request of a customer in order to facilitate our leasing activities, or otherwise to better serve our customers’ site requirements. Network services revenues declined as a percentage of our total revenues during 2003 and 2004, and we expect such decline may continue in the foreseeable future.
The growth of our business depends substantially on the condition of the wireless communications industry. We believe that the demand for new communications sites will continue, although possibly not at the levels experienced prior to 2002. While the total number of new tenant additions on our towers (including modifications to existing installations) decreased for the first half of 2003 as compared to the first half of 2002, the rate of new tenant additions during the second half of 2003 was approximately constant with the rate of new additions that we experienced during the second half of 2002. During the second half of 2003, we began to see signs of increased activity in the form of additional applications for our U.S. sites by wireless carriers. In 2004, the rate of new tenant additions (or modifications to existing installations) on our U.S. towers were 38% greater than the comparable period in 2003. We expect that, due to increased competition, wireless carriers will continue to seek operating and capital efficiencies by (1) outsourcing certain network services and the build-out and operation of new and existing infrastructure and (2) utilizing third-party tower sites as a common location for the placement of their antennas and transmission equipment alongside the equipment of other wireless service providers.
The willingness of wireless carriers to utilize our infrastructure and related services is affected by numerous factors, including:
•
consumer demand for wireless services;
•
availability and location of our sites and alternative sites;
•
cost of capital, including interest rates;
•
availability of capital to wireless carriers;
•
willingness to co-locate equipment;
•
local restrictions on the proliferation of towers;
•
cost of building towers;
•
technological changes affecting the number of communications sites needed to provide wireless communications services to a given geographic area;
•
our ability to efficiently satisfy their service requirements; and
•
tax policies.
As an important part of our business strategy, we will seek to:
(1) maximize utilization of our tower capacity to grow revenues organically,
(2) grow our margins by taking advantage of the relatively fixed nature of the operating costs associated with our site rental business,
(3) allocate capital efficiently as we selectively build new towers for wireless carriers, acquire other assets or purchase our own securities, and
(4) utilize the expertise of U.S. and Australian personnel to extend revenues around our existing assets.
Critical Accounting Policies
The following is a discussion of the accounting policies that we believe (1) are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and (2) require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
Revenue Recognition
Site rental revenues are recognized on a monthly basis over the fixed, non-cancelable term of the relevant lease, agreement or contract. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, these revenues are recognized on a monthly basis, regardless of whether the payments from the customer are received in equal monthly amounts. Some agreements provide for rent-free periods at the beginning of the lease term, while others call for rent to be prepaid for some period. If the payment terms call for fixed escalations (as in fixed dollar or fixed percentage increases), the effect of such increases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the fixed, non-cancelable term of the agreement. As a result of this accounting method, a portion of the revenue recognized in a given period represents cash collected in other periods. For 2002 (as restated), 2003 (as restated) and 2004, the non-cash portion of our site rental revenues amounted to approximately $20.5 million, $22.9 million and $18.8 million, respectively. See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.
Network services revenues are generally recognized under the completed contract method. Under the completed contract method, revenues and costs for a particular project are recognized in total at the completion date. When using the completed contract method of accounting for network services revenues, we must accurately determine the completion date for the project in order to record the revenues and costs in the proper period. For antenna installations, we consider the project complete when the customer can begin transmitting its signal through the antenna. We must also be able to estimate losses on uncompleted contracts; as such losses must be recognized as soon as they are known. The completed contract method is used for projects that require relatively short periods of time to complete (generally less than one year). We do not believe that our use of the completed contract method for network services projects produces operating results that differ substantially from the percentage-of-completion method.
Some of our arrangements with our customers call for the performance of multiple revenue-generating activities. Generally, these arrangements include both site rental and network services. In such cases, we determine whether the multiple deliverables are to be accounted for separately or on a combined basis. In order to be accounted for separately, the undelivered items must (1) have stand-alone value to the customer, (2) have reliably determinable fair value on a separate basis, and (3) have delivery which is probable and under our control. Allocation of recognized revenue in such arrangements is based on the relative fair value of the separately delivered items. We have generally determined that it is appropriate to account for antenna installation activities separately from the customer’s subsequent site rentals.
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Receivable
As part of our normal accounting procedures, we must evaluate our outstanding accounts receivable to estimate whether they will be collected. This is a subjective process that involves making judgments about our customers’ ability and willingness to pay these accounts. An allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded as an offset to accounts receivable in order to present a net balance that we believe will be collected. In estimating the appropriate balance for this allowance, we consider (1) specific reserves for accounts we believe may prove to be uncollectible and (2) additional reserves, based on historical collections, for the remainder of our accounts. Additions to the allowance for doubtful accounts are charged to costs of operations, and deductions from the allowance are recorded when specific accounts receivable are written off as uncollectible. If our estimate of uncollectible accounts should prove to be inaccurate at some future date, the results of operations for the period could be materially affected by any necessary correction to the allowance for doubtful accounts.
Valuation of Long-Lived Assets
We review the carrying values of property and equipment and other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. If the sum of the
estimated future cash flows (undiscounted) from the asset is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized. Measurement of an impairment loss is based on the fair value of the asset. Our determination that an adverse event or change in circumstance has occurred will generally involve (1) a deterioration in an asset’s financial performance compared to historical results, (2) a shortfall in an asset’s financial performance compared to forecasted results or (3) a change in strategy affecting the utility of the asset. Our measurement of the fair value of an impaired asset will generally be based on an estimate of discounted future cash flows.
Depreciation expense for our property and equipment is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of our various classes of assets. The substantial portion of our property and equipment represents the cost of our towers which are depreciated with an estimated useful life equal to the shorter of 20 years or the term of the underlying ground lease (including optional renewal periods). See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.
On January 1, 2002, we adopted the new accounting standard for goodwill and other intangible assets. In accordance with that new standard, we test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, regardless of whether adverse events or changes in circumstances have occurred. This annual impairment test involves (1) a step to identify potential impairment at a reporting unit level based on fair values, and (2) a step to measure the amount of the impairment, if any. Our measurement of the fair value for goodwill is based on an estimate of discounted future cash flows of the reporting unit. The most important estimates for such calculations are the expected additions of new tenants on our towers, the terminal multiple for our projected cash flows and our weighted-average cost of capital.
During the fourth quarter of 2004, we performed our annual update of the impairment test for goodwill. The results of this test indicated that goodwill was not impaired at any of our reporting units. We have included the results of the joint venture transactions with Verizon Communications in our most recent evaluations. Future declines in our site leasing business could result in an impairment of goodwill in the future. If impairment were to occur in the future, the calculations to measure the impairment could result in the write-off of some portion, to substantially all, of our goodwill.
Deferred Income Taxes
We record deferred income tax assets and liabilities on our balance sheet related to events that impact our financial statements and tax returns in different periods. In order to compute these deferred tax balances, we first analyze the differences between the book basis and tax basis of our assets and liabilities (referred to as “temporary differences”). These temporary differences are then multiplied by current tax rates to arrive at the balances for the deferred income tax assets and liabilities. If deferred tax assets exceed deferred tax liabilities, we must estimate whether those net deferred asset amounts will be realized in the future. A valuation allowance is then provided for the net deferred asset amounts that are not likely to be realized.
The change in our net deferred income tax balances during a period results in a deferred income tax provision or benefit in our statement of operations. If our expectations about the future tax consequences of past events should prove to be inaccurate, the balances of our deferred income tax assets and liabilities could require significant adjustments in future periods. Such adjustments could cause a material effect on our results of operations for the period of the adjustment. See Note to our consolidated financial statements.
Results of Operations
Our primary sources of revenues are from:
(1) renting antenna space on towers and
(2) providing network services, including the installation of antennas on our sites.
Site rental revenues in the U.S. and Australia are received primarily from wireless communications companies, including those operating in the following categories of wireless communications:
•
cellular;
•
personal communications services (“PCS”), a digital service operating at a higher frequency range than cellular;
•
enhanced specialized mobile radio (“ESMR”), a service operating in the SMR frequency range using enhanced technology;
•
wireless data services;
•
point-to-point radio;
•
paging; and
•
specialized mobile radio (“SMR”), a service operating in the frequency range used for two-way radio communication by public safety, trucking companies, and other dispatch service users.
Site rental revenues are generally recognized on a monthly basis under lease agreements, which typically have original terms of five to ten years (with three or four optional renewal periods of five or ten years each). See “-Critical Accounting Policies-Revenue Recognition” and Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.
Network services revenues in the U.S. consist of revenues from:
(1) antenna installations, substantially all on towers owned or managed by us,
(2) site acquisition services,
(3) site development and construction, and
(4) other services.
Network services revenues are received primarily from wireless communications companies. Network services revenues in the U.S. are recognized under service contracts which generally provide for billings on a fixed price basis. Demand for our network services fluctuates from period to period and within periods. See “Item 1. Business-Risk Factors”. Consequently, the operating results of our network services businesses for any particular period may vary significantly, and should not be considered as indicative of longer-term results. In 2002 and continuing to 2003 and 2004, we made a strategic decision to reduce our network services offerings to primarily the management of antenna installations on our sites.
Costs of operations for site rental in the U.S. and Australia primarily consist of:
•
ground leases;
•
property taxes;
•
repairs and maintenance;
•
employee compensation and related benefits costs;
•
utilities;
•
insurance; and
•
monitoring costs.
For any given tower, such costs are relatively fixed over a monthly or an annual time period. As such, operating costs for owned towers do not generally increase significantly as additional customers are added. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, ground lease expenses are recognized on a straight-line basis, regardless of whether the payments to the landlord are made in equal monthly installments. If the payment terms call for fixed escalations (as in fixed dollar or fixed percentage increases), the effect of such increases is spread evenly over the term of the agreement using a time period that equals or exceeds the remaining depreciable life of the tower asset. Further, when a tenant has exercisable renewal options that would compel us to exercise existing ground lease renewal options, we have straight-lined the ground lease expense over a sufficient portion of such ground lease renewals to coincide with the final termination of the tenant’s renewal options. As a result of this accounting method, a portion of the expense recognized in a given period represents cash paid in other periods. See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.
Costs of operations for network services consist primarily of employee compensation and related benefits costs, subcontractor services, consulting fees, and other on-site construction and materials costs. Certain costs incurred in connection with antenna installations are capitalized as property and equipment since they represent assets owned by us. As such, those costs are not included in our results of operations in the year incurred, but rather will be charged to depreciation expense over the life of the assets.
General and administrative expenses consist primarily of:
•
employee compensation, training, recruitment and related benefits costs;
•
professional and consulting fees;
•
office rent and related expenses;
•
state franchise taxes;
•
travel costs; and
•
corporate office expenses.
Corporate development expenses represent costs incurred in connection with acquisitions and development of new business initiatives. These expenses consist primarily of:
•
allocated compensation and related benefits costs;
•
external professional fees; and
•
overhead costs that are not directly related to the administration or management of existing towers.
Depreciation, amortization and accretion charges relate to our property and equipment (which consists primarily of tower sites, associated buildings, construction equipment and vehicles) and other intangible assets. Depreciation of tower sites is generally computed with a useful life equal to the shorter of 20 years or the term of the underlying ground lease (including optional renewal periods). See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. Amortization of other intangible assets (the value of certain site rental contracts at CCUSA) is computed with a useful life of 10 years. Depreciation of buildings is generally computed with useful lives ranging from 20 to 40 years. Depreciation of construction equipment and vehicles is generally computed with useful lives of 10 years and 5 years, respectively.
While the total number of new tenant additions on our towers (including modifications to existing installations) decreased for the first half of 2003 as compared to the first half of 2002, the rate of new tenant additions during the second half of 2003 was approximately constant with the rate of new additions that we experienced during the second half of 2002. During the second half of 2003, we began to see signs of increased activity in the form of additional applications for our U.S. sites by wireless carriers. In 2004, the rate of new tenant additions (or modifications to existing installations) on our U.S. towers were 38% greater than the comparable period in 2003.
A summary of site rental revenues by country is as follows:
A summary of the non-cash portions of our site rental revenues, ground lease expense and resulting impact on our site rental gross margins is as follows:
On June 28, 2004, we signed a definitive agreement to sell our UK subsidiary (“CCUK”) to an affiliate of National Grid Transco Plc (“National Grid”). As a result, we have restated our financial statements to present CCUK’s assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows as amounts from discontinued operations. Such restatements have been made for all periods presented. On August 31, 2004, we completed the sale of CCUK. See “-Liquidity and Capital Resources”.
On November 4, 2004, we entered into an agreement with a subsidiary of Verizon Communications (“Verizon”) to acquire Verizon’s remaining 37.245% equity interest in the Crown Castle Atlantic venture (“Crown Atlantic”). Following this transaction, we have combined the Crown Atlantic operating segment with the CCUSA operating segment. This change in reportable segments was made in our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004, and segment information for all prior periods presented have been restated.
Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements
Our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003 have been restated to reflect the correction of errors for certain non-cash items relating to our lease accounting practices. In February of 2005, we adjusted our method of accounting for tenant leases, ground leases and depreciation. The corrections to our consolidated results of operations consist of non-cash adjustments primarily attributable to increases in site rental revenues, ground lease expense (included in site rental costs of operations) and depreciation expense. Since the adjustments affected results of operations at CCAL and our two joint ventures with Verizon Communications, they also resulted in changes to minority interests. The adjustments for depreciation expense also effected the discontinued operations of CCUK, resulting in a change to the net gain on disposal. The cumulative effects of these adjustments on our consolidated statements of operations from inception through September 30, 2004 are as follows: an increase in site rental revenues of $34.3 million; an increase in site rental costs of operations of $98.8 million; an increase in depreciation expense of $180.7 million; an increase in operating losses of $245.3 million; an increase in
other expense (attributable to the loss on the issuance of an interest in the Crown Atlantic joint venture) of $3.1 million; an increase in minority interests of $43.1 million; a decrease in income from operations of CCUK, and a corresponding increase in the net gain on disposal of CCUK, of $4.8 million; and an increase in net losses of $205.3 million. These adjustments have no effect on our credit (provision) for income taxes since the net impact on deferred tax assets and liabilities is offset by changes in valuation allowances. The net impact of the accounting correction will generally be to accelerate ground lease expense (as such expenses are straight-lined over a period that equals or exceeds the remaining depreciable life of the tower, along with periods covered by tenant renewal options) and depreciation expense and, to a lesser extent, site rental revenues (as such revenues are only straight-lined over the current lease term, without regard to renewal options that may be exercised by a tenant).
Historically, we have calculated straight-line ground lease expense (for leases with fixed escalation provisions) using the current lease term (typically five to ten years) without regard to renewal options. Further, we depreciated all tower assets over a 20-year useful life, without regard to the term of the underlying ground lease, because of our historical experience in successfully renewing ground leases prior to expiration. As a result of this accounting adjustment, we now calculate our straight-line ground lease expense using a time period that equals or exceeds the remaining depreciable life of the tower asset. Further, when a tenant has exercisable renewal options that would compel us to exercise existing ground lease renewal options, we have straight-lined the ground lease expense over a sufficient portion of such ground lease renewals to coincide with the final termination of the tenant’s renewal options. We have also shortened the depreciable lives of certain tower assets that have ground lease expirations prior to the end of their useful life. When calculating our straight-line site rental revenues, we now consider all fixed elements of a tenant lease’s escalation provisions, even if such escalation provisions also include a variable element. In addition, (1) certain issuance costs from prior financing transactions have been charged to other expense or included with dividends on preferred stock, (2) certain foreign currency translation adjustments have been charged to a prior year’s results of operations and (3) certain adjustments have been made to deferred income tax provisions and the estimated tax on the sale of CCUK. See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the restatement.
The following information is derived from our historical Consolidated Statements of Operations for the periods indicated.
Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003-Consolidated
Site rental revenues for 2004 were $537.5 million, an increase of $54.7 million, or 11.3%, from 2003. Of this increase, $44.5 million was attributable to CCUSA and $10.2 million was attributable to CCAL. Network services and other revenues for 2004 were $66.4 million, a decrease of $5.9 million from 2003. This decrease was primarily attributable to a $6.7 million decrease from CCUSA, partially offset by a $0.8 million increase from CCAL.
Total revenues for 2004 were $603.9 million, a net increase of $48.8 million from 2003. The increases in site rental revenues reflect the new tenant additions (or modifications to existing installations) on our tower sites and contractual escalations on existing leases with variable escalations. In 2004, the rate of new tenant additions (or modifications to existing installations) on our U.S. tower sites has been approximately 38% greater than the comparable period in 2003. In 2004, the rate of new tenant additions on CCAL’s tower sites has been approximately 67% greater than the comparable period in 2003. In addition, CCAL’s site rental revenues for 2004 include a nonrecurring contractual payment of $2.1 million related to a site commitment agreement with one of its customers. The decrease in network services and other revenues reflects our efforts to de-emphasize this area of our business and increased competition. We expect that network services and other revenues may continue to decline as a percentage of total revenues for CCUSA.
Site rental costs of operations for 2004 were $183.6 million, an increase of $4.1 million from 2003. This increase was primarily attributable to cost increases of $0.5 million for CCUSA and $3.5 million for CCAL. Such
cost increases relate to normal and customary increases in ground rentals on leases with variable escalations, repairs and maintenance and property taxes. Network services and other costs of operations for 2004 were $47.3 million, an increase of $0.6 million from 2003. This increase was primarily attributable to a $0.9 million increase in costs from CCAL, partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in costs from CCUSA.
Total costs of operations for 2004 were $230.9 million, a net increase of $4.6 million from 2003. Gross margins (net revenues less costs of operations) for site rental as a percentage of site rental revenues increased to 65.8% for 2004 from 62.8% for 2003, because of higher margins from the CCUSA and CCAL operations. Gross margins for network services and other as a percentage of network services and other revenues decreased to 28.7% for 2004 from 35.4% for 2003 because of lower margins from the CCUSA and CCAL operations.
General and administrative expenses for 2004 were $90.2 million, an increase of $3.2 million from 2003. This increase was primarily attributable to:
(1) a $2.7 million increase in expenses at CCAL (attributable to increased employee and other costs associated with increased business activity), and
(2) a $1.6 million increase in expenses at CCUSA (primarily attributable to the transfer of a strategic business unit from the corporate office segment to CCUSA), partially offset by
(3) a $1.1 million decrease in expenses at our corporate office segment (partially attributable to the transfer of such strategic business unit from the corporate office segment to CCUSA).
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased to 15.0% for 2004 from 15.7% for 2003, primarily due to stable overhead costs as compared to increasing revenues for CCUSA.
Corporate development expenses for 2004 were $1.5 million, compared to $5.6 million for 2003. This decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in salary costs related to corporate activities.
During 2004, we recorded net cash restructuring charges of $0.9 million, compared to $1.3 million for 2003. Such 2004 charges related primarily to employee severance payments. See “-Restructuring Charges and Asset Write-Down Charges”.
During 2004, we recorded asset write-down charges of $7.7 million for CCUSA. Such non-cash charges related to the abandonment or disposal of certain tower sites, sites in development and certain other assets. We may record such charges in the future if conditions warrant. See “-Restructuring Charges and Asset Write-Down Charges”.
During the fourth quarter of 2004, we performed our annual update of the impairment test for goodwill. The results of this test indicated that goodwill was not impaired at any of our reporting units. We have included the results of the joint venture transactions with Verizon Communications in our most recent evalutions (see”-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Joint Ventures With Verizon Communications). Future declines in our site leasing business could result in an impairment of goodwill in the future. If an impairment were to occur in the future, the calculations to measure the impairment could result in the write-off of some portion, to substantially all, of our goodwill.
For 2004, we recorded non-cash general and administrative compensation charges of $15.9 million related to the issuance of stock and stock options to certain employees and executives, compared to $14.0 million for 2003. These charges were primarily attributable to the issuance, during the first quarter of 2003 and the first and second quarters of 2004, of restricted common stock to our executives and certain employees, the modification of stock options for certain terminated executives and the issuance of common stock to the non-executive members of our Board of Directors. See “-Compensation Charges Related to Stock and Stock Option Grants and Acquisitions”.
Depreciation, amortization and accretion for 2004 was $284.0 million, an increase of $2.0 million from 2003. This increase was primarily attributable to:
(1) a $2.0 million increase in depreciation from CCUSA, and
(2) a $1.2 million increase in depreciation from CCAL, partially offset by
(3) a $1.2 million decrease in depreciation at our corporate office segment.
Interest and other income (expense) for 2004 resulted primarily from:
(1) losses of $63.8 million from purchases of our debt securities (see “-Liquidity and Capital Resources”),
(2) a loss of $13.9 million from the repayment of our 2000 credit facility (see “-Liquidity and Capital Resources”), and
(3) $5.6 million from our share of losses incurred by unconsolidated affiliates, partially offset by
(4) interest income from invested cash balances.
Interest expense, amortization of deferred financing costs and dividends on preferred stock for 2004 was $206.8 million, a decrease of $52.1 million, or 20.1%, from 2003. This decrease was primarily attributable to:
(1) purchases and redemptions of our debt securities in 2003 and 2004 (see “-Liquidity and Capital Resources”), and
(2) reductions in outstanding bank indebtedness at the Crown Atlantic joint venture, partially offset by
(3) the issuance of the 4% senior notes, the 7.5% senior notes and the 7.5% Series B senior notes in 2003, and
(4) an increase in outstanding bank indebtedness at CCUSA in 2003, the proceeds of which were used to retire CCUK’s indebtedness and purchase certain of our public debt and preferred stock.
The credit for income taxes of $5.4 million for 2004 consists primarily of a non-cash deferred tax asset resulting from an alternative minimum tax carryforward, partially offset by a non-cash deferred tax liability resulting from a difference between the book and tax basis of CCUSA’s goodwill.
Minority interests represent the minority partner’s interest in the operations of Crown Atlantic (43.1% through April 30, 2003, 37.245% from May 1, 2003 through November 4, 2004 and none thereafter), the minority partner’s interest in the operations of the Crown Castle GT joint venture (17.8% through April 30, 2003 and none thereafter) and the minority shareholder’s 22.4% interest in the CCAL operations. See “-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Joint Ventures With Verizon Communications”.
Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2004 and 2003-Operating Segments
See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular presentation of the financial results for our operating segments.
CCUSA. CCUSA’s site rental revenues for 2004 were $496.4 million, an increase of $44.5 million, or 9.8% from 2003. Network services and other revenues for 2004 were $62.1 million, a decrease of $6.7 million from 2003. Total revenues for 2004 were $558.5 million, a net increase of $37.8 million from 2003. The increase in site rental revenues reflects the new tenant additions (or modifications to existing installations) on our tower sites and contractual escalations on existing leases with variable escalations. In 2004, the rate of new tenant additions (or modifications to existing installations) on our U.S. tower sites has been approximately 38% greater than the comparable period in 2003. The decrease in network services and other revenues reflects our efforts to de-emphasize this area of our business and increased competition. We expect that network services and other revenues may continue to decline as a percentage of CCUSA’s total revenues. Site rental costs of operations for 2004 were $167.5 million, an increase of $0.5 million from 2003. Such cost increases relate to normal and customary increases in ground rentals on leases with variable escalations, repairs and maintenance and property taxes. Network services and
other costs of operations for 2004 were $44.2 million, a decrease of $0.4 million from 2003. Total costs of operations for 2004 were $211.7 million, a net increase of $0.2 million from 2003. Gross margins (net revenues less costs of operations) for site rental as a percentage of site rental revenues increased to 66.3% for 2004 from 63.1% for 2003. Gross margins for network services and other as a percentage of network services and other revenues decreased to 28.8% for 2004 from 35.3% for 2003. General and administrative expenses for 2004 were $58.9 million, an increase of $1.6 million from 2003. This increase was primarily attributable to the transfer of a strategic business unit from the corporate office segment to CCUSA. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased to 10.5% for 2004 from 11.0% for 2003. For 2004, CCUSA recorded asset write-down charges of $7.7 million (see “-Restructuring Charges and Asset Write-Down Charges”). CCUSA recorded non-cash general and administrative compensation charges of $7.3 million for 2004 and $8.0 million for 2003 (see “-Compensation Charges Related to Stock and Stock Option Grants and Acquisitions”). Depreciation, amortization and accretion for 2004 was $255.3 million, an increase of $2.0 million from 2003. Interest and other income (expense) for 2004 was $(9.6) million, compared to $(13.1) million for 2003. Interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs for 2004 was $53.6 million, a decrease of $1.5 million from 2003. This decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in outstanding bank indebtedness at the Crown Atlantic joint venture, partially offset by higher interest rates on bank indebtedness.
CCAL. CCAL’s site rental revenues for 2004 were $41.1 million, an increase of $10.2 million, or 33.1%, from 2003. Network services and other revenues for 2004 were $4.3 million, an increase of $0.8 million from 2003. Total revenues for 2004 were $45.4 million, an increase of $11.0 million from 2003. The increase in site rental revenues reflects the new tenant additions on our tower sites and contractual escalations on existing leases with variable escalations. In 2004, the rate of new tenant additions on CCAL’s tower sites has been approximately 67% greater than the comparable period in 2003. Site rental costs of operations for 2004 were $16.1 million, an increase of $3.5 million from 2003. Network services and other costs of operations for 2004 were $3.1 million, an increase of $0.9 million from 2003. Total costs of operations for 2004 were $19.3 million, an increase of $4.5 million from 2003. Gross margins (net revenues less costs of operations) for site rental as a percentage of site rental revenues increased to 60.8% for 2004 from 59.2% for 2003. Gross margins for network services and other as a percentage of network services and other revenues decreased to 27.4% for 2004 from 36.8% for 2003. General and administrative expenses for 2004 were $10.5 million, an increase of $2.7 million from 2003. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues increased to 23.2% for 2004 from 22.8% for 2003. Depreciation, amortization and accretion for 2004 was $28.1 million, an increase of $1.2 million from 2003. Interest and other income (expense) was $(0.4) million for 2004, compared to $1.5 million for 2003. Interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs for 2004 was $4.4 million, compared to $3.8 million for 2003.
Corporate Office and Other. General and administrative expenses for 2004 were $20.8 million, a decrease of $1.1 million from 2003. This decrease was primarily attributable to the transfer of a strategic business unit from the corporate office segment to CCUSA. Corporate development expenses for 2004 were $1.5 million, a decrease of $4.1 million from 2003. This decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in salary costs related to corporate activities. For 2004, the corporate office recorded restructuring charges of $1.3 million (see “-Restructuring Charges and Asset Write-Down Charges”). For 2004 and 2003, the corporate office recorded non-cash general and administrative compensation charges of $8.6 million and $5.9 million, respectively (see “-Compensation Charges Related to Stock and Stock Option Grants and Acquisitions”). Depreciation, amortization and accretion for 2004 was $0.6 million, compared to $1.8 million for 2003. Interest and other income (expense) for 2004 was $(68.5) million compared to $(120.5) million for 2003. The 2004 amount was primarily attributable to losses on debt purchases of approximately $63.8 million. Interest expense, amortization of deferred financing costs and dividends on preferred stock for 2004 was $148.7 million, a decrease of $51.3 million from 2003. This decrease was primarily attributable to purchases and redemptions of our debt securities in 2003 and 2004, partially offset by the issuance of the 4% senior notes, the 7.5% senior notes and the 7.5% Series B senior notes in 2003 (see “-Liquidity and Capital Resources”).
Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2003 and 2002-Consolidated
Site rental revenues for 2003 were $482.7 million, an increase of $36.6 million, or 8.2%, from 2002. Of this increase, $30.0 million was attributable to CCUSA and $6.6 million was attributable to CCAL. Network services and other revenues for 2003 were $72.3 million, a decrease of $86.9 million from 2002. This decrease was primarily attributable to an $87.9 million decrease from CCUSA, partially offset by a $1.0 million increase from CCAL.
Total revenues for 2003 were $555.1 million, a net decrease of $50.3 million from 2002. The increases in site rental revenues reflect the new tenant additions (or modifications to existing installations) on our tower sites and contractual escalations on existing leases with variable escalations. The increases or decreases in network services and other revenues reflect fluctuations in demand for antenna installations from our tenants, along with our strategic decision to reduce our U.S. network services offerings to primarily the management of antenna installations on our sites. We expect that network services and other revenues may continue to decline as a percentage of total revenues for CCUSA.
Site rental costs of operations for 2003 were $179.5 million, an increase of $3.4 million from 2002. Of this increase, $1.5 million was attributable to CCUSA and $1.9 million was attributable to CCAL. Network services and other costs of operations for 2003 were $46.7 million, a decrease of $75.3 million from 2002. This decrease was primarily attributable to a $75.9 million decrease in costs from CCUSA, partially offset by a $0.6 million increase in costs from CCAL.
Total costs of operations for 2003 were $226.3 million, a net decrease of $71.9 million from 2002. Gross margins (net revenues less costs of operations) for site rental as a percentage of site rental revenues increased to 62.8% for 2003 from 60.5% for 2002 because of higher margins from the CCUSA and CCAL operations. Gross margins for network services and other as a percentage of network services and other revenues increased to 35.4% for 2003 from 23.4% for 2002 because of higher margins from the CCUSA and CCAL operations.
General and administrative expenses for 2003 were $87.1 million, an increase of $2.8 million from 2002. This increase was primarily attributable to:
(1) a $2.1 million increase in expenses at CCAL and
(2) a $5.1 million increase in expenses at our corporate office segment, related primarily to new business initiatives we are pursuing, partially offset by
(3) a $4.4 million decrease in expenses related to the CCUSA operations, related primarily to lower staffing levels after the recent restructurings.
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues increased to 15.7% for 2003 from 13.9% for 2002, primarily because of higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenues for CCUSA and CCAL, along with the increase in expenses at our corporate office segment.
Corporate development expenses for 2003 were $5.6 million, compared to $7.5 million for 2002. This decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in salary costs.
During 2003, we recorded cash restructuring charges of $1.3 million, compared to $8.7 million for 2002. Such charges related to employee severance payments, lease termination costs and costs of office closures. See “-Restructuring Charges and Asset Write-Down Charges”.
During 2003, we recorded asset write-down charges of $14.3 million, compared to $52.6 million for 2002. Such non-cash charges related to the abandonment of a portion of our construction in process and the write-down of certain other assets. We may record such charges in the future if conditions warrant. See “-Restructuring Charges and Asset Write-Down Charges”.
During the fourth quarter of 2003, we performed our annual update of the impairment test for goodwill. The results of this test indicated that goodwill was not impaired at any of our reporting units. We have included the results of the joint venture transactions with Verizon Communications in our most recent evalutions (see”-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Joint Ventures With Verizon Communications). Future declines in our site leasing business could result in an impairment of goodwill in the future. If an impairment were to occur in the future, the calculations to measure the impairment could result in the write-off of some portion, to substantially all, of our goodwill.
For 2003, we recorded non-cash general and administrative compensation charges of $14.0 million related to the issuance of stock and stock options to certain employees and executives, compared to $3.5 million for 2002. This increase was primarily attributable to the issuance, during the first quarter of 2003, of restricted common stock to our executives and certain employees and the issuance of common stock to the non-executive members of our Board of Directors. See “-Compensation Charges Related to Stock and Stock Option Grants and Acquisitions”.
Depreciation, amortization and accretion for 2003 was $282.0 million, an increase of $3.4 million from 2002. This increase was primarily attributable to:
(1) a $1.4 million increase in depreciation from CCUSA and
(2) a $2.1 million increase in depreciation from CCAL.
Interest and other income (expense) for 2003 resulted primarily from:
(1) losses of approximately $87.1 million from purchases and redemptions of our debt securities,
(2) losses of approximately $32.3 million from purchases and the redemption of shares of our 12¾% exchangeable preferred stock,
(3) a loss on the issuance of the interest in the Crown Atlantic joint venture of $11.2 million (see “-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Joint Ventures With Verizon Communications”),
(4) our share of losses incurred by unconsolidated affiliates and
(5) costs incurred in connection with unsuccessful investment projects, partially offset by
(6) interest income and foreign exchange gains from invested cash balances.
Interest expense, amortization of deferred financing costs and dividends on preferred stock for 2003 was $258.8 million, a decrease of $15.1 million, or 5.5%, from 2002. This decrease was primarily attributable to:
(1) purchases and redemptions of our debt securities in 2002 and 2003,
(2) reductions in outstanding bank indebtedness at the Crown Atlantic joint venture, and
(3) lower interest rates on bank indebtedness at CCUSA and the Crown Atlantic joint venture, partially offset by
(4) the issuance of the 4% senior notes, the 7.5% senior notes and the 7.5% Series B senior notes in 2003,
(5) an increase in outstanding bank indebtedness at CCUSA, and
(6) dividends on the 12¾% exchangeable preferred stock (see “-Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards”).
The provision for income taxes of $2.5 million for 2003 and $4.4 million for 2002 consists primarily of a non-cash deferred tax liability resulting from a difference between the book and tax basis of CCUSA’s goodwill.
Minority interests represent the minority partner’s interest in the operations of Crown Atlantic (43.1% through April 30, 2003, 37.245% from May 1, 2003 through November 4, 2004 and none thereafter), the minority partner’s interest in the operations of the Crown Castle GT joint venture (17.8% through April 30, 2003 and none thereafter) and the minority shareholder’s 22.4% interest in the CCAL operations. See “-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Joint Ventures With Verizon Communications”.
Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2003 and 2002-Operating Segments
See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular presentation of the financial results for our operating segments.
CCUSA. CCUSA’s site rental revenues for 2003 were $451.9 million, an increase of $30.0 million, or 7.1%, from 2002. Network services and other revenues for 2003 were $68.8 million, a decrease of $87.9 million from 2002. Total revenues for 2003 were $520.7 million, a net decrease of $57.9 million from 2002. The increase in site rental revenues reflects the new tenant additions (or modifications to existing installations) on our tower sites and contractual escalations on existing leases with variable escalations. The decrease in network services and other revenues reflects a decrease in demand for antenna installation from our tenants, along with our strategic decision to reduce our U.S. network services offerings to primarily the management of antenna installations on our sites. We expect that network services and other revenues may continue to decline as a percentage of CCUSA’s total revenues. Site rental costs of operations for 2003 were $167.0 million, an increase of $1.5 million from 2002. Network services and other costs of operations for 2003 were $44.5 million, a decrease of $75.9 million from 2002. Total costs of operations for 2003 were $211.5 million, a net decrease of $74.4 million from 2002. Gross margins (net revenues less costs of operations) for site rental as a percentage of site rental revenues increased to 63.1% for 2003 from 60.8% for 2002. Gross margins for network services and other as a percentage of network services and other revenues increased to 35.3% for 2003 from 23.2% for 2002. General and administrative expenses for 2003 were $57.3 million, a decrease of $4.4 million from 2002. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues increased to 11.0% for 2003 from 10.7% for 2002. For 2003, CCUSA recorded restructuring charges and asset write-down charges of $1.3 million and $14.3 million, respectively (see “-Restructuring Charges and Asset Write-Down Charges”). CCUSA recorded non-cash general and administrative compensation charges of $8.0 million for 2003 and $2.1 million for 2002 (see “-Compensation Charges Related to Stock and Stock Option Grants and Acquisitions”). Depreciation, amortization and accretion for 2003 was $253.4 million, an increase of $1.4 million from 2002. Interest and other income (expense) for 2003 was $(13.1) million, resulting primarily from a loss on the issuance of the interest in the Crown Atlantic joint venture of $11.2 million (see “-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Joint Ventures With Verizon Communications”). Interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs for 2003 was $55.1 million, a decrease of $1.7 million from 2002. This decrease was primarily attributable to lower interest rates on bank indebtedness.
CCAL. CCAL’s site rental revenues for 2003 were $30.9 million, an increase of $6.6 million, or 27.4%, from 2002. Network services and other revenues for 2003 were $3.5 million, an increase of $1.0 million from 2002. Total revenues for 2003 were $34.4 million, an increase of $7.6 million from 2002. The increase in site rental revenues reflects the new tenant additions on our tower sites and contractual escalations on existing leases with variable escalations. Site rental costs of operations for 2003 were $12.6 million, an increase of $1.9 million from 2002. Network services and other costs of operations for 2003 were $2.2 million, an increase of $0.6 million from 2002. Total costs of operations for 2003 were $14.8 million, an increase of $2.5 million from 2002. Gross margins (net revenues less costs of operations) for site rental as a percentage of site rental revenues increased to 59.2% for 2003 from 55.9% for 2002. Gross margins for network services and other as a percentage of network services and other revenues increased to 36.8% for 2003 from 34.7% for 2002. General and administrative expenses for 2003 were $7.8 million, an increase of $2.1 million from 2002. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues increased to 22.8% for 2003 from 21.6% for 2002. Depreciation, amortization and accretion for 2003 was $26.8 million, an increase of $2.1 million from 2002. Interest and other income (expense) was $1.5 million for 2003, compared to $0.4 million for 2002. Interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs for 2003 was $3.8 million, compared to $3.4 million for 2002.
Corporate Office and Other. General and administrative expenses for 2003 were $21.9 million, an increase of $5.1 million from 2002. Corporate development expenses for 2003 were $5.6 million, a decrease of $1.9 million from 2002. For 2003 and 2002, the corporate office recorded non-cash general and administrative compensation charges of $5.9 million and $1.4 million, respectively (see “-Compensation Charges Related to Stock and Stock Option Grants and Acquisitions”). Depreciation, amortization and accretion for 2003 was $1.8 million, compared to $1.9 million for 2002. Interest and other income (expense) for 2003 was $(120.5) million compared to $65.6 million for 2002. The 2003 amount was primarily attributable to losses on debt and preferred stock purchases and redemptions of approximately $119.4 million. Interest expense, amortization of deferred financing costs and dividends on preferred stock for 2003 was $200.0 million, a decrease of $13.7 million from 2002. This decrease was
primarily attributable to purchases and redemptions of our debt securities in 2002 and 2003, partially offset by the issuance of the 4% senior notes, the 7.5% senior notes and the 7.5% Series B senior notes in 2003.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
We seek to allocate our available capital among the investment alternatives that provide the greatest risk-adjusted returns given current market conditions. As such, we may continue to (1) acquire sites, build new towers and make improvements to existing towers and (2) make investments in emerging businesses that are complementary to our core site leasing business when the expected returns from such investments meet our investment return criteria. In addition, we may continue to utilize a portion of our available cash balances to purchase our own stock (either common or preferred) or debt securities from time to time as market prices make such investments attractive.
On June 28, 2004, we signed a definitive agreement to sell CCUK to an affiliate of National Grid for $2.035 billion in cash, subject to certain working capital type adjustments. On August 31, 2004, we completed the sale of CCUK. The proceeds for the transaction amounted to $2.029 billion, after taking into account the working capital type adjustments. In accordance with the terms of our 2000 credit facility, we were required to use $1.275 billion of the proceeds from the transaction to fully repay the outstanding borrowings under the 2000 credit facility. The remaining proceeds from the transaction are being used for general corporate purposes, which could include the repayment of outstanding indebtedness (including any required tender premiums) and/or investments in new business opportunities. Under the terms of the indentures governing our public debt securities, any proceeds from the sale of CCUK not invested in qualifying assets within one year must be offered to purchase such debt securities from our bondholders at the outstanding principal amount plus accrued interest. On September 10, 2004, in order to satisfy these requirements under the indentures, we commenced an offer to purchase certain of our outstanding public debt securities in advance of the one year time period (as further discussed below). As a result of the sale of CCUK, we have restated our financial statements to present CCUK’s assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows as amounts from discontinued operations. Such restatements have been made for all periods presented.
After having closed the sale of CCUK and repaid the outstanding borrowings under the 2000 credit facility, we anticipate replacing such facility with new senior indebtedness. We currently expect that the principal amount of such new senior indebtedness would range from $1.3 billion to $1.9 billion. In addition, we anticipate that we may purchase additional debt and preferred securities with the proceeds from such new senior indebtedness and the remaining proceeds from the CCUK sale. Such purchases would likely be of our outstanding public debt securities, the 8¼% convertible preferred stock or outstanding borrowings under Crown Atlantic’s credit facility, and could involve public market purchases, contractual redemptions or tender offers.
Our goal is to maximize net cash from operating activities and fund all capital spending and debt service from our operating cash flow, without reliance on additional borrowing or the use of our cash. However, due to the risk factors outlined in “Item 1. Business - Risk Factors”, there can be no assurance that this will be possible. As part of our strategy to achieve increases in net cash from operating activities, we seek to lower our interest expense by reducing outstanding debt balances or lowering interest rates. Such reductions can be made either by using a portion of our existing cash balances to purchase our debt securities, or with attractive refinancing opportunities.
Our business strategy contemplates discretionary capital expenditures in connection with the further improvement and selective expansion of our existing tower portfolios. During 2005, we expect that the majority of our discretionary capital expenditures will occur in connection with the addition of new tenants on our existing sites, purchases of land on our tower sites and selected new tower builds.
A summary of our net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures (both amounts from our consolidated statement of cash flows) is as follows:
The increase in net cash from operating activities for 2004 as compared to 2003 is largely due to growth in our core site leasing business, partially offset by an increase in cash interest paid and the continued decline in our network services business. Changes in working capital, and particularly changes in accrued interest, have a dramatic impact on our net cash from operating activities for interim periods, largely due to the timing of interest payments on our various senior notes issues. In addition, the debt refinancing transactions we completed in 2003 and 2004 have impacted the timing of our interest payments as compared to prior periods. Cash interest payments for 2004, as compared to 2003, were increased by payments related to the 4% senior notes, the 7.5% senior notes and the 7.5% Series B senior notes. The proceeds from these three debt issues were used in 2003 to retire the 10 5/8% discount notes (which were to require cash interest payments beginning on May 15, 2003) and a portion of the 10 3/8% discount notes and the 11¼% discount notes (which were not going to require cash interest payments until November 15, 2004 and February 1, 2005, respectively). Cash interest payments for 2004 were also impacted by increased borrowings under the amended 2000 credit facility, a portion of which were used to retire CCUK’s outstanding indebtedness in 2003. For the year ending December 31, 2005, we expect that our net cash from operating activities will be positively impacted by continued growth in our core site leasing business. Further repayment or refinancing of existing indebtedness with lower cost senior debt is expected to reduce interest expense levels beginning in 2005.
Our capital expenditures can be separated into three general categories: (1) sustaining (which includes maintenance activities on our sites, vehicles, information technology equipment and office equipment), (2) revenue generating (which includes tower improvements, enhancements to the structural capacity of our towers in order to support additional leasing and the construction of new towers) and (3) certain other expenditures related to emerging businesses. For the fourth quarter of 2004, total capital expenditures were $14.1 million, of which $3.8 million were for sustaining activities and $10.3 million were for revenue generating activities.
Capital expenditures were $43.3 million for 2004, of which $39.8 million were for CCUSA, $2.7 million were for CCAL and $0.8 million were for CCIC. For the year ending December 31, 2005, we currently expect that our total capital expenditures will be between approximately $50.0 million and $74.0 million, of which approximately $40.0 million to $60.0 million will be for revenue generating activities and approximately $10.0 million to $14.0 million will be for sustaining activities. As such, we expect that our capital expenditures for this period will be fully funded by net cash from operating activities, as discussed above. Our decisions regarding the construction of new towers and structural enhancements are discretionary, and depend upon expectations of achieving acceptable rates of return given current market conditions. Such decisions are influenced by the availability of capital and expected returns on alternative investments.
As of December 31, 2004, after giving effect to the January 2005 purchases of our 4% senior notes, we had consolidated cash and cash equivalents of $391.7 million (including $177.0 million at CCUSA, $17.6 million at CCAL, $150.1 million in an unrestricted investment subsidiary and $47.0 million at restricted group companies in our corporate segment), consolidated long-term debt of $1,756.9 million, consolidated redeemable preferred stock of $508.0 million and consolidated stockholders’ equity of $1,751.0 million. In January of 2005, we utilized approximately $175.4 million of our cash to purchase an aggregate of $93.5 million in outstanding principal amount of our 4% senior notes, including accrued interest thereon.
For the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004, our net cash provided by (used for) financing activities was $(286.3) million, $71.1 million and $(1,686.4) million, respectively. The amounts for 2002, 2003 and 2004 are largely due to financing transactions we have completed in an effort to lower our future cash interest payments and simplify our capital structure. Following is a summary of significant financing transactions completed in 2004 and January of 2005.
On December 5, 2003, we commenced cash tender offers and consent solicitations for all of our outstanding 9% senior notes and 9½% senior notes. On December 31, 2003, in accordance with the terms of the tender offers, the purchase prices for the tendered notes (excluding accrued interest through the purchase date) were determined to be 107.112% of the outstanding principal amount for the 9% senior notes and 109.140% of the outstanding principal amount for the 9½% senior notes. Such purchase prices include a consent payment of $20.00 for each $1,000 principal amount of the tendered notes. On January 7, 2004, we (1) utilized $147.0 million of our cash to purchase the $135.6 million in outstanding principal amount of the tendered 9% senior notes, including accrued interest thereon of $1.8 million, and (2) utilized $124.0 million of our cash to purchase the $109.5 million in outstanding
principal amount of the tendered 9½% senior notes, including accrued interest thereon of $4.5 million. The purchase of the tendered 9% senior notes resulted in a loss of $12.5 million for the first quarter of 2004, consisting of the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs ($2.8 million) and the excess of the total purchase price over the carrying value of the tendered notes ($9.7 million). The purchase of the tendered 9½% senior notes resulted in a loss of $11.7 million for the first quarter of 2004, consisting of the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs ($1.7 million) and the excess of the total purchase price over the carrying value of the tendered notes ($10.0 million). Such losses are included in interest and other income (expense) on our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004. The 9% senior notes and 9½% senior notes that were tendered through December 31, 2003 have been classified as current maturities of long-term debt on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2003. Upon completion of these tender offers, the outstanding balances for the 9% senior notes and the 9½% senior notes were $26.1 million and $4.8 million, respectively.
In January of 2004, we (1) utilized $1.6 million of our cash to purchase $1.5 million in outstanding principal amount at maturity of our 10 3/8% discount notes and (2) utilized $1.0 million of our cash to purchase $1.0 million in outstanding principal amount at maturity of our 11¼% discount notes, both in public market transactions. The debt purchases resulted in losses of $0.2 million that are included in interest and other income (expense) on our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004.
During the year ended December 31, 2004, Crown Atlantic repaid $15.0 million in outstanding borrowings under its credit facility. Crown Atlantic utilized cash provided by its operations to effect this repayment. In February of 2004, Crown Atlantic amended its credit facility to reduce the available borrowings from $301.1 million to $250.0 million.
Under the terms of the indentures governing our public debt securities, any proceeds from the sale of CCUK not invested in qualifying assets within one year must be offered to purchase such debt securities from our bondholders at the outstanding principal amount plus accrued interest. On September 10, 2004, in order to satisfy these requirements under the indentures, we commenced an offer to purchase for cash up to $216.4 million of our 10¾% senior notes, $205.6 million of our 9 3/8% senior notes, $151.4 million of our 7.5% senior notes and $151.4 million of our 7.5% Series B senior notes in advance of the one year time period. The offer to purchase these securities expired on October 8, 2004, at which time we accepted an aggregate of $0.5 million in notes that had been tendered. On October 12, 2004, we utilized $0.5 million of our cash to purchase the $0.5 million in outstanding principal amount of the tendered notes, including accrued interest thereon.
In March, June and December of 2004, we paid our quarterly dividends on the 8¼% convertible preferred stock by issuing a total of 0.8 million shares of our common stock. As allowed by the Deposit Agreement relating to dividend payments on the 8¼% convertible preferred stock, we purchased the 0.8 million shares of common stock from the dividend paying agent for a total of $12.2 million in cash. We utilized cash from an unrestricted investment subsidiary to effect the stock purchases. We may choose to continue issuances and purchases of stock in the future in order to offset dilution caused by the issuance of common stock as dividends on our preferred stock. Such purchases could amount to $36.4 million annually if we were to choose to offset all of the dividends on our preferred stock through continued share purchases.
In April of 2004, the restrictions expired with respect to the final third of the outstanding restricted common shares that had been issued during the first quarter of 2003 (see “-Compensation Charges Related to Stock and Stock Option Grants and Acquisitions”). All of the executives and employees elected to sell a portion of their vested shares in order to pay their respective minimum withholding tax liabilities, and we arranged to purchase these shares in order to facilitate the stock sales. We purchased 0.6 million of such shares of common stock (at a price of $14.92 per share) for a total of $8.8 million in cash. We utilized cash from an unrestricted investment subsidiary to effect the stock purchase.
In August of 2004, we began purchasing our common stock in public market transactions. Through September 3, 2004, we purchased a total of 2.7 million shares of common stock. We utilized $36.0 million in cash from an unrestricted investment subsidiary to effect these common stock purchases. We may choose to continue purchases of common stock in the future.
In October of 2004, the restrictions expired with respect to the first third of the outstanding restricted common shares that had been issued during March, April and May of 2004 (see “-Compensation Charges Related to Stock and Stock Option Grants and Acquisitions”). Most of the executives and employees sold a portion of their vested shares in order to pay their respective minimum withholding tax liabilities, and we arranged to purchase these shares in order to facilitate the stock sales. We purchased 0.2 million of such shares of common stock (at a price of $15.52 per share) for a total of $2.4 million in cash. We utilized cash from an unrestricted investment subsidiary to effect the stock purchase.
On November 4, 2004, we entered into an agreement with a subsidiary of Verizon Communications (“Verizon”) to acquire Verizon’s remaining 37.245% equity interest in Crown Atlantic. On that date, we acquired such equity interest for $295.0 million in cash, inclusive of approximately $15.0 million of net working capital. Following the transaction, we own 100% of Crown Atlantic. See “-Joint Ventures With Verizon Communications”.
On November 8, 2004, we commenced a cash tender offer for all of our outstanding 4% senior notes. On December 3, 2004, in accordance with the terms of the tender offer, the purchase price for the tendered notes (excluding accrued interest through the purchase date) was determined to be 179.505% of the outstanding principal amount. On December 8, 2004, we utilized $86.9 million of our cash to purchase the $48.0 million in outstanding principal amount of the tendered 4% senior notes, including accrued interest thereon of $0.8 million. The purchase of the tendered 4% senior notes resulted in a loss of $39.4 million for the fourth quarter of 2004, consisting of the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs ($1.2 million) and the excess of the total purchase price over the carrying value of the tendered notes ($38.2 million). Such loss is included in interest and other income (expense) on our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004.
In January of 2005, we utilized $175.4 million of our cash to purchase $93.5 million in outstanding principal amount of our 4% senior notes, including accrued interest thereon of $1.7 million, in public market transactions. The debt purchases resulted in losses of $82.6 million for the first quarter of 2005, consisting of the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs ($2.4 million) and the excess of the total purchase price over the carrying value of the notes ($80.2 million). Such losses will be included in interest and other income (expense) on our consolidated statement of operations for the three months ending March 31, 2005. After these purchases, the conversion of all the remaining outstanding 4% senior notes would result in the issuance of 8.2 million shares of our common stock.
The primary factors that are likely to determine our subsidiaries’ ability to comply with their current and future debt covenants are (1) their current financial performance, (2) their levels of indebtedness and (3) their debt service requirements. Given the levels of indebtedness that we anticipate for our subsidiaries, the primary risk of a debt covenant violation would result from a deterioration of a subsidiary’s financial performance. Should a covenant violation occur in the future as a result of a shortfall in financial performance (or for any other reason), we might be required to make principal payments earlier than currently scheduled and may not have access to additional borrowings under these facilities as long as the covenant violation continues. Any such early principal payments would have to be made from our existing cash balances.
As a holding company, CCIC will require distributions or dividends from its subsidiaries, or will be forced to use its remaining cash balances, to fund its debt obligations, including interest payments on the notes. The terms of the current and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries are likely to limit their ability to distribute cash to CCIC. In addition, there can be no assurance that our subsidiaries will generate sufficient cash from their operations to make any permitted distributions. As a result, we could be required to apply a portion of our remaining cash to fund interest payments on the notes. If we do not retain sufficient funds or raise additional funds from any future financing, we may not be able to make our interest payments on the notes.
If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness or renegotiate the terms of such debt prior to maturity, we may not be able to meet our debt service requirements, including interest payments on the notes, in the future. Our 4% senior notes, our 10 3/8% discount notes, our 9% senior notes, our 11 1/4% discount notes, our 9 1/2% senior notes, our 10 3/4% senior notes, our 9 3/8% senior notes, our 7.5% senior notes and our 7.5% Series B senior notes require annual cash interest payments of $3.5 million, $1.2 million, $2.4 million, $1.2 million, $0.5 million, $46.0 million, $38.2 million, $22.5 million and $22.5 million, respectively.
The following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2004:
(a) Interest payments on floating rate debt are estimated based on rates in effect during the first quarter of 2005. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(b) Amounts relate primarily to ground lease obligations for our tower sites, and are based on the assumption that payments will be made through the end of the period for which we hold renewal rights.
We have issued letters of credit to various landlords, insurers and other parties in connection with certain contingent retirement obligations under various tower site land leases and certain other contractual obligations. The letters of credit were issued through one of CCUSA’s lenders in amounts aggregating $6.1 million and expire on various dates through October 2005.
Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal of, or to pay interest on, our debt obligations, and our ability to refinance any such debt obligations, will depend on our future performance. Such performance is, to a certain extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We anticipate that we may need to refinance a substantial portion of our indebtedness on or prior to its scheduled maturity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effect any required refinancing of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. See “Item 1. Business-Risk Factors”.
Joint Ventures With Verizon Communications
On May 2, 2003, we entered into several agreements (the “Agreements”), dated effective May 1, 2003, relating to our two joint ventures with Verizon Communications (“Verizon”): Crown Atlantic and the Crown Castle GT venture (“Crown Castle GT”). Under the Agreements, certain termination rights under which Verizon could have required us to purchase Verizon’s interest in either or both ventures at any time were converted to put and call rights with an extended exercise date of July 1, 2007. We also acquired all of Verizon’s interest in Crown Castle GT in exchange for additional interests in Crown Atlantic and certain other consideration. In addition, the shares of our common stock previously held by the ventures were distributed to Verizon. Following the transactions, we owned 100% of Crown Castle GT and 62.755% of Crown Atlantic. Further details of the transaction and its accounting treatment are discussed below.
Pursuant to the Agreements, we acquired all of Verizon’s equity interests in Crown Castle GT (11.0% after the distribution of the shares of our common stock from Crown Castle GT to Verizon, as discussed below) in exchange for consideration consisting of (1) the transfer to a Verizon affiliate of a 13.3% equity interest in Crown Atlantic (with an estimated fair value of $63.6 million), representing consideration for the Verizon Crown Castle GT partner’s interest in the operating assets held by Crown Castle GT, (2) approximately $5.9 million in cash, representing the working capital of Crown Castle GT allocable to the Verizon Crown Castle GT partner’s interest reduced by the working capital of Crown Atlantic allocable to the 13.3% equity interest in Crown Atlantic transferred to the Verizon affiliate, and (3) the transfer to a Verizon affiliate of approximately 58 tower sites from the two ventures (for which our proportion of their estimated fair value aggregated $10.3 million, as restated). For the purpose of performing the purchase price allocation, the fair value measurement for the exchange of the venture interests was determined based on the current financial performance of Crown Castle GT’s tower sites, using a valuation multiple derived from the current market performance of our common stock.
Pursuant to the Agreements, Crown Castle GT distributed 5.1 million shares of our common stock previously held by Crown Castle GT to the Verizon Crown Castle GT partner, resulting in a reduction in Verizon’s interest in Crown Castle GT by a fixed percentage of 6.8%. The fixed percentage reduction was agreed upon at the time of the formation of Crown Castle GT. We then purchased such shares from Verizon (at a negotiated price of $6.122 per
share) for $31.0 million in cash. We utilized cash from an unrestricted investment subsidiary to effect this stock purchase.
In addition, pursuant to the Agreements, Crown Atlantic distributed 15.6 million shares of our common stock previously held by Crown Atlantic to the Verizon Crown Atlantic partner, resulting in a reduction in Verizon’s interest in Crown Atlantic by a fixed percentage of 19%. The fixed percentage reduction was agreed upon at the time of the formation of Crown Atlantic. Pursuant to the registration rights contained in the Crown Atlantic formation agreement dated December 8, 1998, as amended by the Agreements, we filed a registration statement relating to the sale of such distributed shares on July 1, 2003. Such registration statement became effective on July 21, 2003. Subsequent to that date, Verizon has sold all of the 15.6 million shares of our common stock to third parties.
We have accounted for the acquisition of the minority interest in Crown Castle GT using the purchase method. In connection with the purchase price allocation for the transaction, we recorded, as restated, (1) a net decrease in the carrying value of our tower sites (included in property and equipment) of $29.3 million, (2) goodwill of $51.6 million, none of which is currently expected to be deductible for tax purposes, (3) other intangible assets (included in deferred financing costs and other assets) of $4.0 million, (4) the elimination of minority interest related to Crown Castle GT of $46.3 million, (5) an increase in minority interest related to Crown Atlantic of $78.0 million, and (6) a loss on the issuance of the interest in Crown Atlantic of $11.2 million (included in interest and other income (expense) on our consolidated statement of operations). The net decrease in the carrying value of the tower sites resulted from a purchase price allocation adjustment based on the estimated replacement cost of Crown Castle GT’s towers, along with the net book value of the tower sites transferred to Verizon from the two ventures. The increase in goodwill resulted primarily from the fair value of the acquired portion of Crown Castle GT in excess of the related minority interest, along with the net decrease in the carrying value of the tower sites. The amounts recorded for the net decrease in the carrying value of the tower sites and the increase in other intangible assets represent the proportionate share of such allocated amounts acquired by us from Verizon.
On November 4, 2004, we entered into an agreement with Verizon to acquire Verizon’s remaining 37.245% equity interest in Crown Atlantic. On that date, we acquired such equity interest for $295.0 million in cash, inclusive of approximately $15.0 million of net working capital. Following the transaction, we own 100% of Crown Atlantic. We have accounted for the acquisition of the minority interest in Crown Atlantic using the purchase method. In connection with the purchase price allocation for the transaction, we recorded (1) an increase in the carrying value of our tower sites (included in property and equipment) of $17.7 million, (2) goodwill of $63.3 million, none of which is currently expected to be deductible for tax purposes, (3) other intangible assets (included in deferred financing costs and other assets) of $67.0 million, and (4) the elimination of minority interest related to Crown Atlantic of $147.0 million. The increase in the carrying value of the tower sites resulted from a purchase price allocation adjustment based on the estimated replacement cost of Crown Atlantic’s towers. The increase in goodwill resulted primarily from the cash paid for the acquired portion of Crown Atlantic in excess of the related minority interest and other intangible assets, along with the increase in the carrying value of the tower sites. The amounts recorded for the increase in the carrying value of the tower sites and the increase in other intangible assets represent the proportionate share of such allocated amounts acquired by us from Verizon. Following this transaction, we combined the Crown Atlantic operating segment with the CCUSA operating segment. This change in reportable segments was made in our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004, and segment information for all prior periods presented have been restated. As permitted by the indentures governing our public debt securities, in order to designate Crown Atlantic as a restricted group subsidiary (as defined in the indentures) we transferred an additional $118.8 million of the remaining proceeds from the CCUK sale to an unrestricted investment subsidiary in exchange for a 15% ownership interest in Crown Atlantic. As a result, approximately 52% of Crown Atlantic is now held by our restricted group and the remaining approximately 48% is held by the unrestricted subsidiary. In addition, the $180.0 million in outstanding borrowings under Crown Atlantic’s credit facility are now indebtedness of our restricted group per the covenants in our bond indentures. From time to time, we may choose to use funds from our restricted group to purchase additional interests in Crown Atlantic from our unrestricted subsidiary, subject to satisfying the conditions imposed by our bond indentures. To the extent we elect to transfer more of the ownership of Crown Atlantic to our restricted group, cash paid to the unrestricted subsidiary in consideration for such ownership interest would be available for general corporate purposes, including the purchase of our common stock. Based on the purchase price paid to Verizon in November 2004, the remaining 48% interest in Crown Atlantic held by the unrestricted subsidiary would be valued at approximately $380 million.
Verizon retains certain protective rights regarding the tower networks held by both Crown Atlantic and Crown Castle GT. The protective rights relate primarily to ensuring Verizon Wireless’ quiet enjoyment as a tenant on the Crown Atlantic and Crown Castle GT sites, and such rights terminate should Verizon Wireless cease to occupy the sites.
Reporting Requirements Under the Indentures Governing the Company’s Debt Securities (the “Indentures”)
The following information (as such capitalized terms are defined in the Indentures) is presented solely as a requirement of the Indentures; such information is not intended as an alternative measure of financial position, operating results or cash flow from operations (as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles). Furthermore, our measure of the following information may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies.
We have designated certain investment subsidiaries as Unrestricted Subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2004, the remaining assets in our Unrestricted Subsidiaries consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, a 48% ownership interest in Crown Atlantic, an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate and a U.S. nationwide license relating to five megahertz of spectrum. Summarized financial information for (1) CCIC and our Restricted Subsidiaries and (2) our Unrestricted Subsidiaries is as follows:
Tower Cash Flow and Adjusted Consolidated Cash Flow for CCIC and our Restricted Subsidiaries is as follows under the indentures governing the 4% senior notes, the 10¾% senior notes, the 9 3/8% senior notes, the 7.5% senior notes and the 7.5% Series B senior notes:
The amounts presented above for Tower Cash Flow, Consolidated Cash Flow and Adjusted Consolidated Cash Flow include the operating results from CCUK through August 31, 2004 (the date of sale). After acquiring the remaining minority interest in Crown Atlantic on November 4, 2004, we designated Crown Atlantic as a restricted group subsidiary. As a result, the amounts presented above for Tower Cash Flow, Consolidated Cash Flow and Adjusted Consolidated Cash Flow include the operating results from Crown Atlantic for all periods presented. See “-Liquidity and Capital Resources”.
Related Party Transactions
For the years ended December 31, 2002 (as restated), 2003 (as restated) and 2004, we had revenues from Verizon Wireless of $147.0 million, $127.5 million and $131.3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2003, our total receivables from Verizon Wireless amounted to $6.8 million. Verizon Wireless is a majority owned subsidiary of Verizon Communications, our former partner in Crown Atlantic and Crown Castle GT (see “-Joint Ventures With Verizon Communications”).
Restructuring Charges and Asset Write-Down Charges
For the year ended December 31, 2002, we recorded cash charges of $3.1 million related primarily to additional employee severance payments at our corporate office in connection with a July 2001 restructuring. In October 2002, we announced a restructuring of our U.S. business in order to flatten its organizational structure to better align with customer demand and enhance our regional focus to improve customer service. As part of the restructuring, we reduced our U.S. workforce by approximately 230 employees and closed some smaller offices. The actions taken for the October 2002 restructuring were substantially completed by the end of the first quarter of 2003. In connection with this restructuring, we recorded cash charges of approximately $6.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 related to employee severance payments ($3.3 million) and costs of office closures ($2.8 million).
The continued execution of the October 2002 restructuring plan lead to further headcount reductions in the U.S. business during the second quarter of 2003. As a result, we reduced our U.S. workforce by approximately 60 employees (approximately 9%) and initiated efforts to sublease vacated office space at two of our locations. The actions taken for this restructuring were substantially completed at June 30, 2003. In connection with this restructuring, we recorded cash charges of approximately $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 related to employee severance payments and lease termination costs.
As a result of the sale of CCUK, in December of 2004 and January of 2005 we consolidated certain corporate management functions. The actions taken for this restructuring will be substantially completed by the end of the first quarter of 2005. In connection with this restructuring, we recorded cash charges of $1.3 million for the fourth quarter of 2004 related to employee severance payments. We expect to record an additional $2.0 million of such cash charges for the first quarter of 2005. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2004 we recorded non-cash general and administrative compensation charges in connection with the modification of stock options for certain terminated executives (see “-Compensation Charges Related to Stock and Stock Option Grants and Acquisitions”).
During the year ended December 31, 2002, we abandoned a portion of our construction in process related to certain open projects, cancelled certain build-to-suit agreements and wrote down the value of the related construction in process, wrote down the value of certain inventories, and wrote down the value of three office buildings. As a result, we recorded asset write-down charges of $50.3 million for CCUSA and $2.3 million for the corporate office.
During the year ended December 31, 2003, we abandoned an additional portion of our construction in process and certain other assets and recorded asset write-down charges of $14.3 million for CCUSA. During the year ended December 31, 2004, we recorded asset write-down charges of $7.7 million for CCUSA. Such non-cash charges related to the abandonment or disposal of certain tower sites and sites in development. We will continue to evaluate the carrying value of our goodwill and our property and equipment as required by SFAS 142 and SFAS 144. Implicit in the determination of fair value for such long-lived assets are certain assumptions regarding the future leasing of our tower sites. Should future business conditions require the amendment of previous assumptions we may abandon additional portions of our construction in process if the leasing potential of open projects is determined to be below acceptable levels. As a result, our assets could be deemed impaired and a charge to earnings would be required.
Compensation Charges Related to Stock and Stock Option Grants and Acquisitions
We have recognized non-cash general and administrative compensation charges related to certain stock options granted to employees and executives prior to our IPO. Such charges amounted to approximately $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002.
We have issued shares of our common stock in connection with an acquisition by CCUSA. A portion of such shares were deemed to be compensation to the former shareholders of the acquired company (who remained employed by us). As a result, CCUSA has recognized non-cash general and administrative compensation charges of approximately $5.9 million over a three-year period ended in 2003.
On January 1, 2003, we adopted the fair value method of accounting (using the “prospective method” of transition) for stock-based employee compensation awards granted on or after that date. As a result, we are recognizing non-cash general and administrative compensation charges for stock options granted in 2003. Such charges will amount to approximately $0.6 million over a five-year period ending in 2008.
In February of 2003, we issued 105,000 shares of common stock to the non-executive members of our Board of Directors as part of their annual compensation for services on the Board. These shares had a grant-date fair value of $3.95 per share. In connection with these shares, we recognized non-cash general and administrative compensation charges of approximately $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
During the first quarter of 2003, we granted approximately 5.8 million shares of restricted common stock to our executives and certain employees. These restricted shares had a weighted-average grant-date fair value of $4.15 per share, determined based on the closing market price of our common stock on the grant dates. The restrictions on these shares were to expire in various annual amounts over the vesting period of five years, with provisions for accelerated vesting based on the market performance of our common stock.
On April 29, 2003, the market performance of our common stock reached the first target level for accelerated vesting of the restricted common shares that had been issued during the first quarter of 2003. This first target level was reached when the market price of our common stock closed at or above $5.54 per share for twenty consecutive trading days. As a result, the restrictions expired with respect to one third of such outstanding shares during the second quarter of 2003. The acceleration of the vesting for these shares resulted in the recognition of non-cash general and administrative compensation charges of approximately $7.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
On July 30, 2003, the market performance of our common stock reached the second target level for accelerated vesting of the restricted common shares that had been issued during the first quarter of 2003. This second target level was reached when the market price of our common stock closed at or above $8.30 per share (150% of the first target level of $5.54 per share) for twenty consecutive trading days. As a result, the restrictions expired with respect to an additional third of such shares during the third quarter of 2003. The acceleration of the vesting for these shares resulted in the recognition of non-cash general and administrative compensation charges of approximately $7.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
In February of 2004, we issued 35,400 shares of common stock to the non-executive members of our Board of Directors as part of their annual compensation for services on the Board. These shares had a grant-date fair value of $11.85 per share. In connection with these shares, we recognized non-cash general and administrative compensation charges of approximately $0.4 million for the first quarter of 2004.
In March, April and May of 2004, we granted approximately 1.3 million shares of restricted common stock to approximately 500 of our employees (including approximately 175 employees of CCUK). These restricted shares had a weighted-average grant-date fair value of $13.99 per share, determined based on the closing market price of our common stock on the grant dates. The restrictions on the shares will expire in various annual amounts over the vesting period of four years, with provisions for accelerated vesting based on the market performance of our common stock. In connection with these restricted shares, we are recognizing non-cash general and administrative compensation charges of approximately $18.8 million over the vesting period. Such charges will be reduced in the event that any of the restricted shares are forfeited before they become vested.
On April 27, 2004, the market performance of our common stock reached the third (and final) target level for accelerated vesting of the restricted common shares that had been issued during the first quarter of 2003. This third target level was reached when the market price of our common stock closed at or above $12.45 per share (150% of the second target level of $8.30 per share) for twenty consecutive trading days. As a result, the restrictions expired with respect to the final third of such outstanding shares during the second quarter of 2004. The acceleration of the vesting for these shares resulted in the recognition of non-cash general and administrative compensation charges of $5.4 million for the second quarter of 2004. The restricted common shares that were issued during the first quarter of 2003 were granted to approximately 350 employees, while the restricted common shares that were issued in March through May of 2004 were granted to approximately 500 employees (including approximately 175 employees of CCUK).
On October 27, 2004, the market performance of our common stock reached the first target level for accelerated vesting of the restricted common shares that had been issued during March, April and May of 2004. This first target level was reached when the market price of our common stock closed at or above $14.81 per share (125% of the base price of $11.85 per share) for twenty consecutive trading days. As a result, the restrictions expired with respect to the first third of such outstanding shares during the fourth quarter of 2004. The acceleration of the vesting for these shares resulted in the recognition of non-cash general and administrative compensation charges of approximately $3.1 million for the fourth quarter of 2004, of which $2.5 million was recorded in continuing operations and $0.6 million was charged to the net gain on disposal of CCUK. In order to reach the second and third target levels for accelerated vesting of these restricted shares, the market price of our common stock would have to close at or above $18.52 per share and $23.14 per share, respectively (125% of each of the previous target levels), for twenty consecutive trading days. Reaching each of the second and third target levels would result in the restrictions expiring with respect to an additional third of these restricted shares. The vesting terms for the restricted shares held by CCUK employees were modified upon the closing of the sale of CCUK. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
In December of 2004, we modified the vesting and exercise terms of outstanding stock options for certain terminated executives (see “-Restructuring Charges and Asset Write-Down Charges”). As a result, we recognized non-cash general and administrative compensation charges of $2.8 million for the fourth quarter of 2004. We expect to record an additional $5.2 million of such non-cash charges for the first quarter of 2005.
In February of 2005, we issued 35,650 shares of common stock to the non-executive members of our Board of Directors as part of their annual compensation for services on the Board. These shares have a grant-date fair value of $16.20 per share. In connection with these shares, we will recognize non-cash general and administrative compensation charges of approximately $0.6 million for the first quarter of 2005.
In February of 2005, we granted approximately 0.3 million shares of restricted common stock to certain of our executives. The restricted shares had a grant-date fair value of $16.20 per share, determined based on the closing market price of our common stock on the grant date. The restrictions on the shares will expire in various amounts over the vesting period of four years if the market performance of our common stock reaches certain levels. In connection with these restricted shares, we will recognize non-cash general and administrative compensation charges of approximately $4.2 million over the vesting period. Such charges will be reduced in the event that any of the restricted shares are forfeited before they become vested. In February of 2005, we also authorized the grant of approximately 0.4 million shares of restricted common stock to 274 other executives and employees. The restrictions on these shares will expire in various annual amounts over the vesting period of four years, with provisions for accelerated vesting based on the market performance of our common stock.
Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards
In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (“FIN 46”). In December 2003, the FASB issued a revised version of FIN 46. FIN 46 clarifies existing accounting literature regarding the consolidation of entities in which a company holds a “controlling financial interest”. A majority voting interest in an entity has generally been considered indicative of a controlling financial interest. FIN 46 specifies other factors (“variable interests”) which must be considered when determining whether a company holds a controlling financial interest in, and therefore must consolidate, an entity (“variable interest entities”). The provisions of FIN 46, as revised, are effective for the first reporting period ending after March 15, 2004. We adopted the provisions of FIN 46 as of March 31, 2004, and such adoption did not have a significant effect on our consolidated financial statements.
In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123(R)”). SFAS 123(R) requires that the cost resulting from all share-based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements based on fair value. SFAS 123(R) replaces Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation (“SFAS 123”) and supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (“APB 25”). SFAS 123(R) clarifies and expands SFAS 123’s guidance in several areas, including measuring fair value, classifying an award as equity or as a liability, and attributing compensation cost to reporting periods. SFAS 123(R) also requires that
forfeitures of awards be estimated when granted, while SFAS 123 allowed forfeitures to be accounted for as they occur. SFAS 123(R) also requires additional disclosures about stock-based compensation awards. The provisions of SFAS 123(R) are effective for us as of the beginning of the first interim or annual reporting period that begins after June 15, 2005. As such, we will adopt the provisions of SFAS 123(R) on July 1, 2005. On January 1, 2003, we adopted the fair value method of accounting for stock-based compensation using the prospective method of transition under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure (“SFAS 148”). SFAS 123(R) requires the use of a modified version of prospective application under which compensation cost is recognized on or after the required effective date for (1) awards granted, modified, repurchased or cancelled after that date and (2) the unvested portion of awards outstanding on that date based on their grant-date fair values. We expect that the adoption of SFAS 123(R) will increase our non-cash general and administrative compensation charges by approximately $3.3 million and $3.6 million for the years ending December 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively.
Cautionary Statement for Purposes of Forward-Looking Statements
Certain information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (including statements contained in “Item 1. Business”, “Item 3.