Item 2 Properties
Principal Oil and Gas Properties and Oil and Gas Reserves
The Company's oil and gas properties located in the Mid-Continent Area and the Permian Basin comprised approximately 71% and 19%, respectively, of the Company's PV-10 Value as of December 31, 1998. These regions are large, well established oil and gas producing basins with activities dating from the early 1900s and are characterized by numerous known producing horizons ranging from shallow oil and gas production to deep gas reservoirs. The Company owns interests in numerous properties which provide opportunities to increase reserves and production through additional development, recompletions, enhanced recovery methods and the use of 3-D seismic technology. The Company's interests in the wells it operates represented approximately 62% of its PV-10 Value at December 31, 1998. Substantially all of the Company's oil and gas properties are mortgaged to secure the Company's obligations under a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of February 3, 1998, among RAM Energy, Inc., as Borrower, the Banks (as described therein) and Union Bank of California, N.A., as Agent for the Banks.
The following table provides information for the Company's major fields as of December 31, 1998.
Net Proved Reserves for Principal Oil and Gas Properties
Gas % of Total Oil Gas Equivalent PV-10 Area (MBbl) (MMcf) (MMcfe) Value ---- ------ ------ ---------- ----------
Mid-Continent 1,925 76,463 88,014 70.9 Permian Basin 1,336 20,868 28,887 18.8 Gulf Coast 202 11,335 12,549 8.6 Other 190 1,228 2,363 1.7 ------ ------- ------- ------ Total net proved reserves 3,653 109,894 131,813 100.0 ====== ======= ======= ======
Mid-Continent Area. In the Mid-Continent Area, the Company owns interests in 1,695 wells and operates 468 of those wells. During 1998 the Company participated in the successful drilling and completion of 49 wells. The wells drilled in 1998 were all natural gas wells, primarily production from the Red Fork, Prue, Skinner and Mississippi formations, ranging in depth from 6,000 to 13,000 feet. Future development plans include the drilling of 88 additional infill locations and 19 recompletions.
Permian Area. In the Permian Area, the Company owns interests in 697 wells and operates 184 of those wells. Following the Rick's Acquisition, the Company drilled and completed a 9,200 foot Strawn gas well in Val Verde County, Texas. Future development plans in this area include the drilling of 11 additional infill wells and 12 recompletions. Because of price depression, the Company elected in 1998 to suspend the drilling of oil wells in the Permian Area.
Gulf Coast Area. In the Gulf Coast Area, the Company owns interests in 62 wells and operates 44 of those wells. Principal Company activity in this area focused upon a field located in Acadia Parish, Louisiana, where the Company completed the reprocessing of 3-D seismic and the successful commencement of recompletion operations. Subsequent engineering study in this area has resulted in the identification of 22 recompletion candidates for future exploitation ranging in depth from 9,000 to 11,000 feet.
Oil and Gas Reserves
The following table summarizes the estimates of the Company's historical net proved reserves and the related present values of such reserves at the dates shown. The reserve and present value data for the Company's oil and gas properties as of December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998 were prepared by Forrest A. Garb & Associates, Inc. ("Garb & Associates").
December 31, ------------------------------------------ 1996 1997 1998(1) 1998(2) Reserve Data: Proved developed reserves: Natural gas (MMcf) 62,319 56,516 77,035 77,788 Oil and condensate (MBbls) 3,511 2,436 2,760 3,076 Total (MMcfe) 83,385 71,132 93,595 96,247 PV-10 Value (in thousands) (1) $127,693 $80,208 $71,021 $77,128 Proved reserves: Natural gas (MMcf) 82,885 81,912 109,894 110,717 Oil and condensate (MBbls) 4,282 3,367 3,653 4,000 Total (MMcfe) 108,577 102,114 131,812 134,719 PV-10 Value (in thousands) (1) $160,930 $104,560 $84,615 $92,627
$/Mcf $3.78 $2.81 $2.12 $2.12 $/Bbl 23.88 16.17 8.95 12.75 _______________
(1) PV-10 Value represents the present value of estimated future net revenues before income tax discounted at 10%, using prices in effect at the end of the respective periods presented and including the effects of hedging activities. In accordance with applicable requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), estimates of the Company's proved reserves and future net revenues are made using oil and gas sales prices estimated to be in effect as of the date of such reserve estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties (except to the extent a contract specifically provides for escalation). The prices used in calculating PV-10 Value as of December 31, 1998 were $2.12 per Mcf of natural gas and $8.95 per Bbl of oil, compared to prices used as of December 31, 1997 of $2.81 per Mcf of natural gas and $16.17 per Bbl of oil.
(2) Reserve quantities and PV-10 Value used for purposes of this column are based on a price of $12.75 per Bbl of oil, compared to the $8.95 per Bbl year-end price actually received. The $12.75 per Bbl price is more reflective than the $8.95 year-end price of the price per Bbl that the Company expects to receive over the life of its properties. Actual posted prices in the field recovered to $12.75 per Bbl on March 22, 1999. Within a relevant range, each $1.00 increase in oil price per Bbl adds approximately $2.2 million of PV-10.
Estimated quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues therefrom are affected by oil and gas prices, which have fluctuated widely in recent years. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. The reserve data set forth in this report represent only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by the Company, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revisions based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and gas prices, operating costs and other factors, which revisions may be material. The PV-10 Value of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves does not necessarily represent the current or fair market value of such proved reserves, and the 10% discount factor required by the Commission may not reflect current interest rates, the Company's cost of capital or any risks associated with the development and production of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves.
In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent the Company acquires properties containing proved reserves or conducts successful exploitation and development activities, the proved reserves of the Company will decline as reserves are produced. The Company's future oil and gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon its level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves.
Title to Properties
The Company believes it has satisfactory title to its properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. As is customary in the oil and gas industry, the Company makes only a cursory review of title to farmout acreage and to undeveloped oil and gas leases upon execution of any contracts. Prior to the commencement of drilling operations, a title examination is conducted and curative work is performed with respect to significant defects. To the extent title opinions or other investigations reflect title defects, the Company, rather than the seller of the undeveloped property, is typically responsible to cure any such title defects at its expense. If the Company were unable to remedy or cure any title defect of a nature such that it would not be prudent to commence drilling operations on the property, the Company could suffer a loss of its entire investment in the property. The Company has obtained title opinions on substantially all of its producing properties. Prior to completing an acquisition of producing oil and gas leases, the Company performs a title review on a material portion of the leases. The Company's oil and gas properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens that the Company believes do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties.
Facilities
The Company's principal executive and operating offices are located at Suite 650, Meridian Tower, 5100 E. Skelly Drive, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74135. The Company's finance and accounting offices, along with the office of the Chairman, are located at Suite 130, One Benham Place, 9400 N. Broadway Extension, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73114. The Company leases all of its significant facilities. The Company believes that its facilities are adequate for its current needs.
Regulation
General. Various aspects of the Company's oil and gas operations are subject to extensive and continually changing regulation, as legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion. Numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue, and have issued, rules and regulations binding upon the oil and gas industry and its individual members. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the "FERC") regulates the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (the "NGA") and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (the "NGPA"). In the past, the federal government has regulated the prices at which oil and gas could be sold. While sales by producers of natural gas and all sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids can currently be made at uncontrolled market prices, Congress could reenact price controls in the future. Deregulation of wellhead sales in the natural gas industry began with the enactment of the NGPA in 1978. In 1989, Congress enacted the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act (the "Decontrol Act"). The Decontrol Act removed all remaining NGA and NGPA price and nonprice controls affecting wellhead sales of natural gas effective January 1, 1993.
Regulation of Sales and Transportation of Natural Gas. The Company's sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The price and terms for access to pipeline transportation are subject to extensive regulation. In recent years, the FERC has undertaken various initiatives to increase competition within the natural gas industry. As a result of initiatives like FERC Order No. 636, issued in April 1992, the interstate natural gas transportation and marketing system has been substantially restructured to remove various barriers and practices that historically limited non-pipeline natural gas sellers, including producers, from effectively competing with interstate pipelines for sales to local distribution companies and large industrial and commercial customers. The most significant provisions of Order No. 636 require that interstate pipelines provide firm and interruptible transportation service on an open access basis that is equal for all natural gas suppliers. In many instances, the results of Order No. 636 and related initiatives have been to substantially reduce or eliminate the interstate pipelines' traditional role as wholesalers of natural gas in favor of providing only storage and transportation services. While the United States Court of Appeals has upheld most of Order No. 636, certain related FERC orders, including the individual pipeline restructuring proceedings, are still subject to judicial review and may be reversed or remanded in whole or in part. While the outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, the Company does not believe that it will be affected materially differently than its competitors.
The FERC has also announced several important transportation-related policy statements and proposed rule changes, including a statement of policy and a request for comments concerning alternatives to its traditional cost-of-service ratemaking methodology to establish the rates interstate pipelines may charge for their services. A number of pipelines have obtained FERC authorization to charge negotiated rates as one such alternative. Both the policy statement and individual pipeline negotiated rate authorizations are currently subject to appeal before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. In February 1997, the FERC announced a broad inquiry into issues facing the natural gas industry to assist the FERC in establishing regulatory goals and priorities in the post-Order No. 636 environment. Moreover, the FERC has refined the criteria used to distinguish non-jurisdictional gathering from jurisdictional transportation. Similarly, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission and the Texas Railroad Commission have been reviewing changes to their regulations governing transportation and gathering services provided by intrastate pipelines and gatherers. While the changes being considered by these federal and state regulators would affect the Company only indirectly, they are intended to further enhance competition in natural gas markets. The Company cannot predict what further action the FERC or state regulators will take on these matters, however, the Company does not believe that it will be affected by any action taken materially differently than other natural gas producers with which it competes.
Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are pending before Congress, the FERC, state commissions and the courts. The natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach recently pursued by the FERC and Congress will continue.
Oil Price Controls and Transportation Rates. Sales of crude oil, condensate and gas liquids by the Company are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. The price the Company receives from the sale of these products may be affected by the cost of transporting the products to market.
Environmental. Extensive federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment affect the Company's oil and gas operations. Numerous governmental departments issue rules and regulations to implement and enforce such laws, which are often difficult and costly to comply with and which carry substantial civil and even criminal penalties for failure to comply. Some laws, rules and regulations relating to protection of the environment may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for environmental contamination, rendering a person or entity liable for environmental damages and cleanup costs without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such person or entity. Other laws, rules and regulations may restrict the rate of oil and gas production below the rate that would otherwise exist or even prohibit exploration and production activities in sensitive areas. In addition, state laws often require various forms of remedial action to prevent pollution, such as closure of inactive pits and plugging of abandoned wells. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the Company's cost of doing business and consequently affects the Company's profitability. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with current applicable environmental laws and regulations and that continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on the Company's operations. However, environmental laws and regulations have been subject to frequent changes over the years, and the imposition of more stringent requirements could have a material adverse effect upon the capital expenditures or competitive position of the Company.
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA") imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original act, on certain classes of persons that are considered to be responsible for the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. These persons include the current or former owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances at the disposal site. Under CERCLA such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of investigating and cleaning up hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. Comparable state statutes also impose liability on the owner or operator of a property for remediation of environmental contamination existing on such property. In addition, companies that incur liability frequently confront third party claims because it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances or other pollutants released into the environment from a polluted site.
The Company currently owns or leases, and has in the past owned or leased, numerous properties that have been used for the exploration and production of oil and gas and for other uses associated with the oil and gas industry. Although the Company has followed operating and disposal practices that it considered appropriate under applicable laws and regulations, hydrocarbons or other wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by the Company or on or under other locations where such wastes were taken for disposal. In addition, the Company owns or leases properties that have been operated by third parties in the past. The Company could incur liability under CERCLA or comparable state statutes for contamination caused by wastes it generated or for contamination existing on properties it owns or leases, even if the contamination was caused by the waste disposal practices of the prior owners or operators of the properties.
The Federal Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 ("RCRA"), regulates the generation, transportation, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous wastes and can require cleanup of hazardous waste disposal sites. RCRA currently excludes drilling fluids, produced waters and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of oil and gas from regulation as "hazardous waste." A similar exemption is contained in many of the state counterparts to RCRA. Disposal of such non-hazardous oil and gas exploration, development and production wastes usually is regulated by state law. Other wastes handled at exploration and production sites or used in the course of providing well services may not fall within this exclusion. Moreover, stricter standards for waste handling and disposal may be imposed on the oil and gas industry in the future. From time to time legislation has been proposed in Congress that would revoke or alter the current exclusion of exploration, development and production wastes from the RCRA definition of "hazardous wastes" thereby potentially subjecting such wastes to more stringent handling and disposal requirements. If such legislation were enacted, or if changes to applicable state regulations required the wastes to be managed as hazardous wastes, it could have a significant impact on the operating costs of the Company, as well as the oil and gas industry in general.
The Company's operations are also subject to the Clean Air Act (the "CAA") and comparable state and local requirements. Amendments to the CAA were adopted in 1990 and contain provisions that may result in the gradual imposition of certain pollution control requirements with respect to air emissions from operations of the Company. The Company may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the next several years for air pollution control equipment in connection with obtaining and maintaining operating permits and approvals for air emissions. However, the Company believes its operations will not be materially adversely affected by any such requirements, and the requirements are not expected to be any more burdensome to the Company than to other similarly situated companies involved in oil and gas exploration and production activities or well servicing activities.
The Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972 (the "FWPCA") imposes restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of wastes, including produced waters and other oil and gas wastes, into navigable waters. These controls have become more stringent over the years, and it is probable that additional restrictions will be imposed in the future. Permits must be obtained to discharge pollutants into state and federal waters. The FWPCA provides for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for unauthorized discharges of oil and other hazardous substances and imposes substantial potential liability for the costs of removal or remediation. State laws governing discharges to water also provide varying civil, criminal and administrative penalties and impose liabilities in the case of a discharge of petroleum or its derivatives, or other hazardous substances, into state waters. In addition, the Environmental Protection Agency has promulgated regulations that require many oil and gas production sites, as well as other facilities, to obtain permits to discharge storm water runoff. The Company believes that compliance with existing requirements under the FWPCA and comparable state statutes will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
The Company maintains insurance against "sudden and accidental" occurrences which may cover some, but not all, of the risks described above. Most significantly, the insurance maintained by the Company may not cover the risks described above which occur over a sustained period of time. Further, there can be no assurance that such insurance will continue to be available to cover all such costs or that such insurance will be available at premium levels that justify its purchase. The occurrence of a significant event not fully insured or indemnified against could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.
Regulation of Oil and Gas Exploration and Production. Exploration and production operations of the Company are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Such regulations include requiring permits and drilling bonds for the drilling of wells, regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, and the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled. Many states also have statutes or regulations addressing conservation matters, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties, the establishment of maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells and the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of such wells. Some state statutes limit the rate at which oil and gas can be produced from the Company's properties.
Item 3