Item 2. Properties
Hotel Properties
At December 31, 2001, the Company owned interests in the following 17 hotel properties:
Radisson Convention Hotel. Radisson Convention Hotel is an upscale full-service convention hotel located at the intersection of Interstate 494 and Highway 100, approximately 15 minutes from the Minneapolis/St. Paul International Airport, and five miles from the Mall of America. On January 25, 2002, the Company terminated the operating lease with affiliates of the Radisson Group, Inc. and entered into a lease with LHL. Affiliates of the Radisson Group, Inc. continue to operate the hotel.
Le Meridien New Orleans. Le Meridien New Orleans is a luxury full-service convention oriented hotel located in downtown New Orleans, a major convention city. The hotel is centrally located across the street from the French Quarter and near the central business district, the Ernest N. Morial Convention Center and the New Orleans Superdome. The hotel has received the AAA Four Diamond award for 16 consecutive years. The hotel is subject to a 99-year ground lease with the city of New Orleans, which expires in May 2081. The hotel is currently leased to and operated by affiliates of Le Meridien Hotels & Resorts (“Meridien”).
Le Meridien Dallas. Le Meridien Dallas is an upscale full-service convention oriented hotel located in downtown Dallas, approximately 25 minutes from the Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport, in the heart of the city’s arts and financial districts. The hotel is conveniently located near the City Convention Center, four stops away on the Dallas light rail system, with a DART station adjacent to the hotel. The hotel is currently leased to and operated by Meridien.
The Company currently expects to engage Starwood to manage and operate the New Orleans and Dallas hotels. The Company anticipates that Starwood will operate these hotels under the Westin brand affiliation. In connection with the re-
branding of these hotels, the Company anticipates spending approximately $6.0 million to enhance the guest experience at these hotels and may be obligated to pay a fee to the parent company of Meridien; however, the Company does not believe that the amount of any fees which it may be required to pay will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, taken as a whole. Contemporaneously with the rebranding of the New Orleans and Dallas hotels, the Company expects to lease the New Orleans and Dallas hotels to LHL.
Marriott Seaview Resort. Marriott Seaview Resort is a luxury golf resort and conference center located on Reeds Bay, approximately nine miles north of Atlantic City, New Jersey. The hotel is leased to LHL and operated by Marriott pursuant to a long-term incentive-based operating agreement. The resort received the AAA Four Diamond award for 2001 and 2002.
Holiday Inn Beachside Resort. Holiday Inn Beachside Resort is a full-service resort comprised of several one, two and three-story buildings, located on approximately 7.8 acres, on the beach facing the Gulf of Mexico. The resort is located on the island of Key West, considered to have the most consistent weather in Florida, and benefits from the island’s reputation as a popular tourist destination. On December 31, 2001, the Company terminated the operating lease with Beachside Hospitality, Inc., an affiliate of Crestline, and on January 1, 2002 entered into a lease with LHL on essentially the same terms. Interstate Hotels Company will replace Crestline as manager of the property effective April 1, 2002.
Omaha Marriott Hotel. Omaha Marriott Hotel is an upscale full-service major business hotel located in the western suburbs of Omaha at one of the city’s busiest intersections (I-680 and West Dodge Road). The hotel is located in the Regency Office Park, a mixed-use development containing over 865,000 square feet of office and retail space, and directly across West Dodge Road from Westroads Shopping Center, one of the largest shopping malls in Omaha. The hotel is leased to LHL and operated by Marriott pursuant to a long-term incentive-based operating agreement.
Le Montrose Suite Hotel. Le Montrose Suite Hotel is a five-story, luxury full-service hotel located in West Hollywood, California, two blocks east of Beverly Hills and one block south of the “Sunset Strip.” The hotel is within walking distance of many of the area’s finest restaurants, retail shops and night clubs. The hotel attracts short and long-term guests and small groups primarily from the recording, film and design industries. The hotel is leased to and operated by Outrigger Lodging Services, Inc. (“OLS”).
San Diego Paradise Point Resort. San Diego Paradise Point Resort is a luxury resort that lies on 44 acres and has nearly one mile of beachfront. The hotel is located in the heart of Mission Bay on Vacation Island, a 4,600-acre aquatic park in southwest San Diego County. The resort is 15 minutes away from the San Diego International Airport and convenient to many major San Diego tourist attractions including Sea World, Old Town, downtown San Diego, the San Diego Convention Center, Qualcomm Stadium and the San Diego Zoo. The hotel is subject to a 50-year ground lease, which expires in June 2049. The hotel is leased to and operated by WestGroup San Diego Associates, Ltd., an affiliate of Noble House Hotels & Resorts.
Harborside Hyatt Conference Center & Hotel. Harborside Hyatt Conference Center & Hotel is a full-service luxury conference and airport hotel located adjacent to Boston’s Logan International Airport along the Boston waterfront. The property features 19,000 square feet of meeting space and is directly across the Boston Harbor from Boston’s central business district. The hotel is located next to the Ted Williams tunnel, providing convenient access to downtown Boston. The property is subject to a long-term ground lease from the Massachusetts Port Authority (“Massport”), Logan International Airport’s owner and operating authority. The hotel is leased to LHL and operated by Hyatt Corporation (“Hyatt”).
LaGuardia Airport Marriott. LaGuardia Airport Marriott is an upscale full-service urban/major business hotel located directly across from New York’s LaGuardia Airport. The hotel is five minutes from Shea Stadium and the USTA National Tennis Center and 20 minutes from Manhattan. The hotel is leased to LHL and operated by Marriott pursuant to a long-term incentive-based operating agreement.
Hotel Viking. Hotel Viking is a full-service upscale resort located on Bellevue Avenue in Newport, Rhode Island, a resort area that is rapidly becoming a year-round hotel market. The hotel offers 29,000 square feet of meeting space, a restaurant, a lounge and a rooftop bar. The property also includes the Trinity Parish House and the fully restored Kay Chapel, both adjacent to the hotel. The hotel was leased and operated by Viking Hotel Corporation, an affiliate of Bellevue Properties Inc. On February 26, 2001, the Company terminated the operating lease with Bellevue Properties, Inc. and entered into a lease with LHL on essentially the same terms. Noble House Hotel and Resorts replaced Bellevue Properties, Inc. as operator of the property.
Chicago Marriott Downtown. Chicago Marriott Downtown is a full-service, upscale convention hotel located at the intersection of North Michigan Avenue and Ohio Street on downtown Chicago’s world-famous “Magnificent Mile.” The property has over 60,000 square feet of meeting space, five food and beverage outlets, a health club and sports center, a business center and a gift shop. The Chicago Marriott Downtown has superb visibility and allows guests convenient access to a variety of attractions. A world-renowned shopping destination, the “Magnificent Mile” is home to such retailers as Neiman Marcus, Saks Fifth Avenue, Marshall Fields, and Niketown. The Company, through the Operating Partnership, owns a 9.9% equity interest in the Chicago Marriott Downtown. The hotel is leased to Chicago 540 Lessee, Inc. in which the Company also owns a 9.9% equity interest. The hotel is operated and managed by Marriott pursuant to a long-term incentive-based operating agreement.
D.C. Boutique Collection. On March 8, 2001, LaSalle Hotel Properties acquired four full-service hotels located in Washington, D.C. with a total of 502 guestrooms. Each of the four hotels was originally constructed as an apartment building and as a result, features large guestrooms or suites. The Company leases each of the hotels to wholly owned subsidiaries of LHL. The Company anticipates investing an aggregate of approximately $30.0 million to renovate and reposition the hotels as full-service, upscale, unique, independent boutique hotels. The renovation and repositioning of two of the properties has been completed at an approximate cost of $14.0 million. The remaining two hotels are expected to be completely renovated by the fourth quarter of 2002 at an approximate cost of $16.0 million. The San Francisco, California-based Kimpton Hotel & Restaurant Group, L.L.C., operates all four of these hotels.
Topaz Hotel. Topaz Hotel was the first of the D.C. Boutique Collection to be completely renovated and repositioned. Formerly the Canterbury Hotel, it reopened on October 10, 2001 with an exotic “East-meets-West” theme. The Hotel is conveniently located on Embassy Row in downtown Washington, D.C. It is within walking distance of the Central Business District, minutes from the monuments and museums, and less than two blocks from Dupont Circle and the Metro. The hotel features a Bar/Restaurant.
Hotel Rouge. Hotel Rouge was the second of the D.C. Boutique Collection to open after its renovation and repositioning. Formerly the Quality Hotel & Suites Downtown, it reopened on December 14, 2001 with an “indulgent pleasure” theme. Located on Scott Circle in Washington, D.C., the hotel is five blocks from the White House and just minutes from the business district. The hotel also features a Bar/Restaurant.
Clarion Hampshire House Hotel. Clarion Hampshire House Hotel will be the third of the D.C. Boutique Collection to be renovated and repositioned. It is scheduled to close in the second quarter of 2002 and reopen in the fourth quarter of 2002. The Hotel is located on the Eastern edge of the Georgetown section of Washington, D.C., and near many of the areas attractions.
Howard Johnson Plaza Hotel & Suites. Howard Johnson Plaza Hotel & Suites will be the fourth of the D.C. Boutique Collection to be renovated and repositioned. It is scheduled to close in the second quarter of 2002 and reopen in the fourth quarter of 2002. The Hotel is located just a few blocks from the new D.C. Convention Center which is currently under construction and is expected to open in the Spring of 2003. The hotel is located in close proximity to most of the major downtown tourist attractions.
Holiday Inn on the Hill. Holiday Inn on the Hill is a full-service hotel strategically located on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C. The property is the closest hotel to the United States Capitol. The Hotel offers a first class amenity package, including 10,000 square feet of newly renovated meeting space, a full-service restaurant and bar and a rooftop swimming pool. The Hotel is minutes away from the site of the new 2.3 million square-foot D.C. Convention Center, which is expected to open in the Spring of 2003. The Hotel is leased by a wholly owned subsidiary of LHL, and Crestline has been the operator of the property since 1997.
The Participating Leases
In order for the Company to qualify as a REIT, neither the Company nor the Operating Partnership may operate hotels or related properties. The Operating Partnership leases the Hotels to lessees (“Lessees”) for terms of between six and 11 years (from commencement) pursuant to separate Participating Leases that provide for rent equal to the greater of Base Rent or Participating Rent and which set forth the Lessee’s required capitalization and certain other matters. Twelve of the participating leases are with LHL. Unless otherwise noted, each Participating Lease contains the provisions described below.
Participating Lease Terms. The Participating Leases have an average term of approximately 10 years from the effective date, with expiration dates staggered between the years 2007 and 2011, subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain contingencies described in the Participating Leases (including, particularly, the provisions summarized below under the captions “Damage to Hotels,” “Condemnation of Hotels,” “Termination of Participating Leases”). The variation of the lease
terms is intended to provide the Company with protection from the risk inherent in simultaneous lease expirations and to align the expiration of certain Participating Leases with the expiration of the applicable franchise license.
Base Rent; Participating Rent; Additional Charges. Each Participating Lease requires the applicable lessee to pay (x) the greater of (i) Base Rent in a fixed amount or (ii) Participating Rent based on certain percentages of room revenue, food and beverage revenue and telephone and other revenue at the applicable hotel, and (y) certain other amounts, including utility charges, certain impositions and insurance premiums, and interest accrued on any late payments or charges (“Additional Charges”). Each lease year, the Base Rent and Participating Rent thresholds are increased to reflect any increase in the applicable Consumer Price Index published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States of America Department of Labor, U.S. City Average, Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (“CPI”) except for San Diego Paradise Point Resort which has set rent increases defined in the lease. Lessees are required to pay Base Rent monthly in arrears by the first day of each calendar month, and pay Participating Rent quarterly in arrears by the twentieth day of each fiscal quarter, except for the hotels operated by Marriott, whose rents are due in accordance with the terms of their respective leases. Participating Rent is calculated based on the year-to-date departmental receipts as of the end of the preceding fiscal quarter, plus the prorated amount of each of the applicable departmental thresholds for the fiscal quarter, or portion thereof, minus the cumulative Participating Rent previously paid for such fiscal year and the cumulative Base Rent paid for such fiscal year as of the end of the preceding fiscal quarter.
Other than real estate taxes, casualty insurance including business interruption insurance, ground lease payments, capital impositions and capital replacements and refurbishments (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles) (“GAAP”) which are obligations of the Company, the Participating Leases require the Lessees to pay rent, condominium dues, certain insurance, all costs and expenses, and all utility and other charges incurred in the operation of the Hotels. The Participating Leases also provide for rent reductions and abatements in the event of damage or destruction or a partial taking of any hotel as described under “Damage to Hotels” and “Condemnation of Hotels.”
The Company has sold certain FF&E to the lessees of Radisson Convention Hotel and Le Meridien Dallas at its book value in exchange for promissory notes receivable (“FF&E Notes”) of approximately $1.0 million and $0.6 million, respectively. The FF&E Notes were adjusted to net realizable value in 2001 resulting in a writedown of $1.2 million based on the Company’s valuation estimate of FF&E which secures the loans. As of December 31, 2001, the balances on the FF&E Notes for the lessees of Radisson Convention Hotel and Le Meridien Dallas were $0.3 million and $0.1 million, respectively. The FF&E Notes bear interest at 6.0% and 5.6% per annum, respectively, and are payable in monthly installments of interest only. These FF&E Notes have an initial term of five years unless extended at the Company’s option. Additionally, the Company provided working capital to each of the Lessees in the aggregate amount of $6.0 million in exchange for notes receivable (“Working Capital Notes”). During 2001, $4.3 million of the Working Capital Notes were paid down resulting in an outstanding balance of $1.7 million at December 31, 2001. The Working Capital Notes bear interest at either 5.6%, 6.0% or 9.0% per annum, and are payable in monthly installments of interest only. The term of each Working Capital Note is identical to the term of the related Participating Lease. Payments made under the FF&E Notes and the Working Capital Notes are used to reduce the related Participating Lease payments by an equal amount. The total of the interest income payments and Participating Lease payments will be equal to the amounts calculated by applying the rent provisions of the Participating Leases to the revenues of the Hotels.
Reserve Funds. The Participating Leases for the Hotels obligate the Company to make funds available for capital improvements at the Hotels (including the periodic replacement or refurbishment of FF&E) in amounts ranging from 4.0% to 5.5% of total annual revenue from the Hotels, with the amount of such reserve with respect to each hotel representing projected capital requirements at each hotel. The Company’s obligation to make funds available for capital improvements has not been recorded on the books and records of the Company as such amounts are capitalized as incurred. Any unexpended amounts will remain the property of the Company upon termination of the Participating Leases. The reserve requirements for the hotels operated by Marriott and Hyatt are contained in certain non-cancelable operating agreements, which require the reserves for the hotels operated by Marriott and Hyatt to be maintained through restricted cash escrows (“FF&E Escrows”). The amounts maintained in the FF&E Escrows have been recorded on the books and records of the Company. Otherwise, the Lessees are required, at their expense, to maintain the Hotels in good order and repair, subject to ordinary wear and tear, and to make all necessary and appropriate nonstructural, foreseen and unforeseen, and ordinary and extraordinary repairs (other than capital repairs) which may be necessary and appropriate to keep the Hotels in good order and repair.
The Lessees are not obligated to bear the cost of any capital improvements or capital repairs to the Hotels. With the consent of the Company, however, the Lessees may utilize funds from the capital expenditure reserves to make capital additions, modifications or improvements to the Hotels. All such alterations, replacements and improvements are subject to all the terms and provisions of the Participating Leases and will become the property of the Company upon termination of the Participating Leases. The Company owns substantially all personal property (other than FF&E which has been sold to the Lessees of Radisson Convention Hotel and Le Meridien Dallas, inventory, linens and other nondepreciable personal property) not affixed
to, or deemed a part of, the real estate or improvements on the Hotels, except to the extent that ownership of such personal property would cause any portion of the rents under the Participating Leases not to qualify as “rents from real property” for REIT income test purposes.
Insurance and Property Taxes. The Company is responsible for paying (i) real estate taxes on the Hotels, (ii) any ground lease payments on the Le Meridien New Orleans, San Diego Paradise Point Resort and the Harborside Hyatt Conference Center & Hotel, (iii) casualty insurance on the Hotels, and (iv) business interruption insurance on the Hotels. The Lessees are required to pay for or reimburse the Company for all liability insurance on the Hotels, with extended coverage, including comprehensive general public liability, workers’ compensation and other insurance appropriate and customary for properties similar to the Hotels and naming the Company as an additional insured, where permitted by law.
Events of Default. Events of default under the Participating Leases include, among others, the following:
·
the failure by a Lessee to pay Base Rent or Participating Rent within ten days after the same is due; or with respect to Radisson Convention Hotel, ten days after notice of non-payment;
·
the failure of a Lessee to observe or perform any other term of a Participating Lease and the continuation of such failure beyond any applicable cure or grace period;
·
the failure of a Lessee to pay for required insurance;
·
the failure of a Lessee to maintain the required minimum net worth, as defined in the Participating Lease or the security deposit, as applicable;
·
should a Lessee or Hotel Operator file a petition for relief or reorganization or arrangement or any other petition in bankruptcy, for liquidation or to take advantage of any bankruptcy or insolvency law of any jurisdiction, or consent to the appointment of a custodian, receiver, trustee or other similar office with respect to it or any substantial part of its assets, or take corporate action for the purpose of any of the foregoing; or if a court or governmental authority of competent jurisdiction shall enter an order appointing, without consent by the Lessee or Hotel Operator, a custodian, receiver, trustee or other similar officer with respect to the Lessee or Hotel Operator or any substantial part of its assets, or if an order for relief shall be entered in any case or proceeding for liquidation or reorganization or otherwise to take advantage of any bankruptcy or insolvency law of any jurisdiction, or ordering the dissolution, winding up or liquidation of the Lessee or Hotel Operator, or if any petition for any such relief shall be filed against the Lessee or Hotel Operator and such petition shall not be dismissed within 120 days;
·
should a Lessee or Hotel Operator cause a default beyond applicable grace periods, if any, under any franchise agreement or hotel operator agreement relating to any Hotel; or
·
should a Lessee or Hotel Operator voluntarily cease operations of the leased property for more than three days other than by reason of casualty, condemnation or force majeure.
Indemnification. Under each of the Participating Leases, the Lessee indemnifies the Company, officers and trustees, against liabilities associated with (i) accidents or injuries at the Hotels, (ii) any misuse of the property, (iii) any environmental liability caused by the Lessee or Hotel Operator (see “Environmental Matters”), (iv) taxes and assessments in respect of the Hotels (other than real estate and personal property taxes and income taxes of the Company on income attributable to the Hotels and capital impositions), (v) the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages or (vi) the failure to comply with the terms of the Participating Leases by the Lessee.
Assignment and Subleasing. The Lessees are not permitted to sublet all or any part of the Hotels or assign their interest under any of the Participating Leases, other than to affiliates of certain of the applicable Lessees, without the prior written consent of the Company. No assignment or subletting will release a Lessee from any of its obligations under the applicable Participating Lease unless the Company expressly agrees that the Lessee shall be released from any of its obligations under the Participating Lease.
Damage to Hotels. In the event of damage to or destruction of any hotel covered by insurance which then renders the leased property unsuitable for its intended use and occupancy as a hotel, the Participating Lease shall terminate, and the Company shall generally be entitled to retain the proceeds of insurance. In the event that damage to or destruction of a hotel which is covered by insurance does not render the leased property unsuitable for its intended use and occupancy as a hotel, the Company generally will be obligated to repair or restore the hotel to substantially the same condition as existed immediately prior to such damage. In the event of damage to or destruction of any hotel that is not covered by insurance, the Company generally, may either repair, rebuild or restore the hotel (at the Company’s expense) to substantially the same condition as existed immediately prior to such damage, or terminate the Participating Lease on the terms and conditions set forth in such Participating Lease.
Condemnation of Hotels. In the event of a total condemnation of a hotel, the relevant Participating Lease will terminate with respect to such hotel as of the date of taking, and the Company will be entitled to all of the condemnation award in accordance with the provisions of the Participating Lease. In the event of a partial taking which does not render the property unsuitable for its intended use as a hotel, then the Company generally will be obligated to restore the untaken portion of the property, and the Company shall contribute the condemnation award to the cost of such restoration.
Termination of Participating Leases. The Company has the right to terminate the Participating Lease for a hotel if the hotel fails to meet certain performance goals, as defined. Additionally, in the event the Company enters into an agreement to sell or otherwise transfer a hotel, the Company, at its option, may terminate the Participating Lease upon 30 days’ notice to the applicable Lessee, subject to certain provisions. Additionally, in the event that changes in federal income tax laws allow the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate to directly operate hotels, the Company will have the right to terminate all Participating Leases with the Lessees.
Other Lease Covenants. Each Lessee has agreed that during the term of its Participating Lease, the Lessee will not engage in any unrelated business activities. The owners of each Lessee and their parent entities have agreed that, for the term of its Participating Lease, any sale of their interest in such Lessee, or of their hotel management businesses in general, will subject their interest in the Lessee to a limited fair market value acquisition right in favor of a designee of the Company. In the event that the Company exercises this right, any nonselling partner of the Lessee will have the right to put its interest in the Lessee to the Company’s designee at a price equal to the fair market value of such interest. The Participating Leases require each Lessee to make available to the Company unaudited monthly and quarterly and audited annual operating information for each hotel leased by such Lessee.
Inventory. All inventory required in the operation of the Hotels is owned by the applicable Lessee. Upon termination of a related Participating Lease, the Lessee shall surrender the related hotel together with all such inventory to the Company.
Item 3.