ITEM 2.PROPERTIES.
We own a facility located at 165 Ludlow Avenue, Northvale, New Jersey (“165 Ludlow”) which contains approximately 15,000 square feet of floor space. This real property and the improvements thereon are encumbered by a mortgage in favor of the New Jersey Economic Development Authority (“NJEDA”) as security for a loan through tax-exempt bonds from the NJEDA to Elite. The mortgage contains certain customary provisions including, without limitation, the right of NJEDA to foreclose upon a default by Elite. The NJEDA has declared the payment of this bond to be in default. We are currently using the Facility as a laboratory, manufacturing, storage and office space.
We entered into a lease for a portion of a one-story warehouse, located at 135 Ludlow Avenue, Northvale, New Jersey (“135 Ludlow”), consisting of approximately 15,000 square feet of floor space. The lease term began on July 1, 2010. The lease includes an initial term of 5 years and 6 months and we have the option to renew the lease for two additional terms, each of 5 years. The property related to this lease will be used for the storage of pharmaceutical finished goods, raw materials, equipment and documents as well as engaging in manufacturing, packaging and distribution activities. This property requires significant construction and qualification as a prerequisite to achieving suitability for such intended future use. Approximately 3,500 square feet of this property was constructed and qualified as suitable for use for storage of pharmaceutical finished goods, raw materials, equipment and documents and was placed into service on or before the expiration of the lease for the warehouse at 80 Oak Street, as noted below. Construction and qualification as suitable for manufacturing, packaging and distribution operations are expected to be achieved within two years from the beginning of the lease term. These are estimates based on current project plans, which are subject to change. There can be no assurance that the construction and qualification will be accomplished during the estimated time frames, or that the property located at 135 Ludlow Avenue, Northvale, New Jersey will ever achieve qualification for intended future utilization.
165 Ludlow and 135 Ludlow are hereinafter referred to as the “Facilities”.
Properties used in our operation are considered suitable for the purposes for which they are used, at the time they are placed into service, and are believed adequate to meet our needs for the reasonably foreseeable future.
ITEM 3LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
In the ordinary course of business we may be subject to litigation from time to time. There is no current, pending or, to our knowledge, threatened litigation or administrative action to which we are a party or of which our property is the subject (including litigation or actions involving our officers, directors, affiliates, or other key personnel, or holders of record or beneficially of more than 5% of any class of our voting securities, or any associate of any such party) which in our opinion has, or is expected to have, a material adverse effect upon our business, prospects financial condition or operations.
ITEM 4MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.
Not Applicable.
PART II
ITEM 5MARKET FOR COMPANY’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Market Information
Our Common Stock is quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB) under the ticker symbol “ELTP”. The following table shows, for the periods indicated, the high and low bid prices per share of our Common Stock as by OTC Bulletin Board. Over-the-counter market quotations reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions.
As of June 13, 2013, the last reported sale price of our Common Stock, as reported by the OTCBB, was $0.07.
Holders
As of June 13, 2013, there were, respectively, approximately 122, 1, 1 and 5 holders of record of our Common Stock, Series C Preferred Stock, Series E Preferred Stock and Series G Preferred Stock.
Dividends
We have never paid cash dividends on our Common Stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain all available funds for use in the operation and expansion of our business.
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities
During the quarter ended March 31, 2013, the Company issued an aggregate of 23,989,525 shares of Common Stock, with such shares constituting unregistered securities, consisting of 348,671 shares of Common Stock issued in lieu of cash in payment of interest expense due and owing on Preferred Share derivatives as of December 31, 2012; 1,662,352 shares of Common Stock issued to Directors and Officers in payment of Directors Fees and Salaries in accordance with the Company’s policy on Director Compensation, or the employment agreements with officers of the Company, as appropriate; and 6,032,000 shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the exercise of warrants and 15,946,502 shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the conversion of Series E Preferred Shares.
During April 2013, the Company issued an aggregate of 12,389,116 shares of Common Stock, with such shares constituting unregistered securities and consisting of 358,663 shares of Common Stock issued in lieu of cash in payment of interest expense due and owing on Preferred Share Derivatives as of March 31, 2013 and 12,030,453 shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the conversion of Series G Preferred Shares.
On April 18, 2013, the Company filed a Certificate of Designations with the Nevada Secretary of State designating a new series of convertible preferred stock - Series G Preferred Stock (the “G Preferred Stock”) and setting forth various rights, preferences, restrictions and other matters related to the G Preferred Stock. 1,375 shares were designated as G Preferred Stock, the same number of the then outstanding shares of the Company’s Series C Preferred Stock. On April 19, 2013, the holders of substantially all of the Company’s Series C Preferred Stock exchanged all of their shares of Series C Preferred Stock for an identical number of shares of G Preferred Stock. The various rights, preferences, restrictions and other terms of the G Preferred Stock are substantially the same as those of the Series C Preferred Stock, except that the conversion price of the G Preferred was changed. The foregoing description of the Certificate of Designations is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Certificate of Designations attached as Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 22, 2013, with such filing and exhibit being herein incorporated by reference.
Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans
The following table sets forth certain information regarding Elite’s equity compensation plans as of March 31, 2013.
(1) Represents options issued under the 2004 Stock Option Plan
(2) Represents securities reserved and available for grant under the 2009 Equity Incentive Plan
2004 Stock Option Plan
Our 2004 Stock Option Plan (the “Stock Option Plan”) permits us to grant both incentive stock options (“Incentive Stock Options” or “ISOs”) within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) to employees, and other options which do not qualify as Incentive Stock Options (the “Non-Qualified Options”) to employees, officers, Directors of and consultants to Elite.
Unless earlier terminated by the Board of Directors, the Stock Option Plan (but not outstanding options issued thereunder) terminates on March 1, 2014, after which no further awards may be granted under the Stock Option Plan. The Stock Option Plan is administered by the Board of Directors.
Recipients of options under the Stock Option Plan (“Optionees”) are selected by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors determines the terms of each option grant including (1) the purchase price of shares subject to options, (2) the dates on which options become exercisable and (3) the expiration date of each option (which may not exceed ten years from the date of grant). The minimum per share purchase price of options granted under the Stock Option Plan for Incentive Stock Options is the fair market value (as defined in the Stock Option Plan) or for Nonqualified Options is 85% of fair market value of one share of the Common Stock on the date the option is granted.
Optionees have no voting, dividend or other rights as stockholders with respect to shares of Common Stock covered by options prior to becoming the holders of record of such shares. The purchase price upon the exercise of options may be paid in cash, by certified bank or cashier’s check, by tendering stock held by the Optionee, as well as by cashless exercise either through the surrender of other shares subject to the option or through a broker. The total number of shares of Common Stock available under the Stock Option Plan, and the number of shares and per share exercise price under outstanding options will be appropriately adjusted in the event of any stock dividend, reorganization, merger or recapitalization or similar corporate event. Subject to limitations set forth in the Stock Option Plan, the terms of option agreements will be determined by the Board of Directors, and need not be uniform among Optionees.
The Board of Directors may at any time terminate the Stock Option Plan or from time to time make such modifications or amendments to the Stock Option Plan as it may deem advisable and the Board of Directors may adjust, reduce, cancel and re-grant an unexercised option if the fair market value declines below the exercise price except as may be required by any national stock exchange or national market association on which the Common Stock is then listed. In no event may the Board of Directors, without the approval of stockholders, amend the Stock Option Plan to increase the maximum number of shares of Common Stock for which options may be granted under the Stock Option Plan or change the class of persons eligible to receive options under the Stock Option Plan.
2009 Equity Incentive Plan
Our Equity Incentive Plan was adopted by the Board on November 24, 2009, to provide incentives to attract, retain and motivate eligible persons whose present and potential contributions are important to the success of Elite and its subsidiaries, by offering them an opportunity to participate in our future performance through awards of Options, the right to purchase Common Stock and Stock Bonuses. An aggregate of 8,000,000 common shares are reserved for grant and issuance pursuant to the Equity Incentive Plan. The Equity Incentive Plan is administered and interpreted by our Compensation Committee (the “Compensation Committee”). Under the Equity Incentive Plan, we are permitted to grant both incentive stock options (“Incentive Stock Options” or “ISOs”) within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) to employees, and other options which do not qualify as Incentive Stock Options (the “Non-Qualified Options”) to employees, officers, Directors of and consultants to Elite. The per share purchase price of options granted under the Equity Incentive Plan may not be less than the fair market value of the shares on the date of the grant, provided that the exercise price of any ISO granted to a ten percent stockholder will not be less than 110% of the fair market value on the date of the grant. Recipients of ISO’s and Non-Qualified Options have no voting, dividend or other rights as stockholders with respect to shares of Common Stock covered by options prior to becoming the holders of record of such shares.
Under the Equity Incentive Plan, we also are permitted to offer stock awards (“Equity Incentive Plan Stock Awards”) to eligible persons. The Equity Incentive Plan defines such stock awards as an offer by us to sell to an eligible person shares that may or may not be subject to restrictions. The purchase of price of shares sold pursuant to an Equity Incentive Plan Stock Award may not be less than the fair market value of the shares on the grant date, provided, however, that the number of shares issued for the payment of employee and officers’ salaries, or directors’ fees will be computed using the average daily closing price, which is defined as the simple average of the closing price of each trading day in the quarter or other applicable period for which payment is due.
We also are permitted to award stock bonuses under the Equity Incentive Plan (“Equity Incentive Plan Stock Bonuses”), which defines such stock bonuses as an award of shares for extraordinary services rendered to the Company.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
None.
ITEM 6SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
Not applicable.
ITEM 7MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION
General
The following discussion and analysis should be read with the financial statements and accompanying notes, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the information described in Item 1A “Risk Factors” and in “Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements” above. The following discussion is intended to assist the reader in understanding and evaluating our financial position.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Management’s discussion addresses our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgment, including those related to bad debts, intangible assets, income taxes, workers compensation, and contingencies and litigation. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
Management believes the following critical accounting policies, among others, affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its Consolidated Financial Statements. Our most critical accounting policies include the recognition of revenue upon completion of certain phases of projects under research and development contracts. We also assess a need for an allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. We assess the recoverability of inventory, long-lived assets and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. We assess our exposure to current commitments and contingencies. It should be noted that actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Going concern considerations
As of March 31, 2013, the Company had a working capital deficit of $2.8 million, losses from operations totaling $1.6 million for Fiscal 2013, other income totaling $2.7 million for Fiscal 2013 and a net income of $1.5 million for Fiscal 2013. Please note that the Company’s other income section of the profit and loss statement is significantly influenced by the fluctuations in the fair value of outstanding preferred share and warrant derivatives, and that such fair values strongly correlate to and vary inversely with the market share price of the Company’s Common Stock.
The Company does not anticipate being profitable for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2014.
In addition, the Company has received Notice of Default from the Trustee of the NJEDA Bonds as a result of the utilization of the debt service reserve being used to pay interest payments as well as the Company’s failure to make scheduled principal payment. See “NJEDA Bonds” below.
As of March 31, 2013, we had cash reserves of $0.4 million. The Lincoln Park Purchase Agreement and Treppel $1,000,000 bridge revolving credit line (the “Treppel Credit Line”) are expected to provide additional funds to permit us to continue development of our product pipeline. There can, however, be no assurances that the Company will receive a sufficient amount of the funds provided for under the Lincoln Park Purchase Agreement (please see “Purchase Agreement with Lincoln Park Capital” below). Even if we were to receive all amounts set forth in the Lincoln Park Purchase Agreement and the Treppel Credit Line, we still most likely will be required to seek additional capital in the future, and there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain such additional capital on favorable terms, if at all.
Based upon our current cash position, management has undertaken a review of our operations and implemented cost-cutting measures in an effort to eliminate any expenses which are not deemed critical to our current strategic objectives. We will continue this process without impeding our ability to proceed with our critical strategic goals, which, as noted above, include developing our pain management and other products and manufacturing our current products.
For Fiscal 2013, we sustained a negative cash flow from operations of approximately $1.9 million, compared with a negative cash flow from operations of approximately $0.4 million achieved during the prior fiscal year. Our working capital deficit at March 31, 2013 was approximately $2.8 million compared with working capital deficit of approximately $3.1 million at March 31, 2012. Please note that the working capital deficits include the entire principal amount due in relation to the NJEDA Bonds. This amount, totaling $3.4 million, is classified as a current liability due to the Notice of Default received from the Trustee in relation to the NJEDA Bonds. Please see “NJEDA Bonds” below.
Cash and cash equivalents at March 31, 2012, were approximately $0.4 million, a decrease of approximately $0.3 million from the approximately $0.7 million at March 31, 2012.
As of March 31, 2013, our principal source of liquidity was approximately $0.4 million of cash and cash equivalents. Additionally, we may have access to funds through the exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants. There can be no assurance that the exercise of outstanding warrants or options will generate or provide sufficient cash.
Purchase Agreement with Lincoln Park Capital
On April 19, 2013 (subsequent to the end of Fiscal 2013), the Company entered into a purchase agreement (the “Lincoln Park Purchase Agreement”), together with a registration rights agreement (the “Lincoln Park Registration Rights Agreement”) with Lincoln Park Capital Fund, LLC (“Lincoln Park”).
Under the terms and subject to the conditions of the Lincoln Park Purchase Agreement, the Company has the right to sell to, and Lincoln Park is obligated to purchase up to $10 million in shares of the Company’s common stock (“Common Stock”), subject to certain limitations, from time to time, over the 36-month period commencing on May 9, 2013, the date that the registration statement which the Company agreed to file with the SEC pursuant to the Lincoln Park Registration Rights Agreement was declared effective by the SEC. The Company may direct Lincoln Park, at its sole discretion and subject to certain conditions, to purchase stock in amounts up to $80,000 on any single business day so long as at least two business days have passed since the most recent purchase, increasing to up to $500,000 per purchase, depending upon the closing sale price of the Common Stock. The purchase price of shares of Common Stock related to the future funding will be based on the prevailing market prices of such shares at the time of sales (or over a period of up to 12 business days leading up to such time), but in no event will shares be sold to Lincoln Park on a day the Common Stock closing price is less than the floor price of $0.07 per share, subject to adjustment. The Company’s sales of shares of Common Stock to Lincoln Park and its affiliates, at any single point in time, of more than 9.99% of the then outstanding shares of the Common Stock.
In connection with the Purchase Agreement, the Company issued to Lincoln Park 2,929,115 shares of Common Stock and is required to issue up to 2,929,115 additional shares of Common Stock pro rata as the Company requires Lincoln Park to purchase the Company’s shares under the Lincoln Park Purchase Agreement over the term of the agreement. Lincoln Park represented to the Company, among other things, that it was an “accredited investor” (as such term is defined in Rule 501(a) of Regulation D under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”)), and the Company sold the securities in reliance upon an exemption from registration contained in Section 4(2) under the Securities Act. The securities sold may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.
The Lincoln Park Purchase Agreement and the Lincoln Park Registration Rights Agreement contain customary representations, warranties, agreements and conditions to completing future sale transactions, indemnification rights and obligations of the parties. The Company has the right to terminate the Lincoln Park Purchase Agreement at any time, at no cost or penalty. Actual sales of shares of Common Stock to Lincoln Park under the Lincoln Park Purchase Agreement will depend on a variety of factors to be determined by the Company from time to time, including, without limitation, market conditions, the trading price of the Common Stock and determinations by the Company as to appropriate sources of funding for the Company and its operations. There are no trading volume requirements or restrictions under the Lincoln Park Purchase Agreement. Lincoln Park has no right to require any sales by the Company, but is obligated to make purchases from the Company as it directs in accordance with the Lincoln Park Purchase Agreement. Lincoln Park has convenanted not to cause or engage in any manner whatsoever, any direct or indirect short selling or hedging of our shares.
The net proceeds under the Purchase Agreement to the Company will depend on the frequency and prices at which the Company sells shares of its stock to Lincoln Park. The Company expects that any proceeds received by the Company from such sales to Lincoln Park under the Lincoln Park Purchase Agreement will be used for general corporate purposes and working capital requirements.
The foregoing descriptions of the Lincoln Park Purchase Agreement and the Lincoln Park Registration Rights Agreement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the Lincoln Park Purchase Agreement and the Lincoln Park Registration Rights Agreement, copies of which are attached as Exhibit 10.1 and Exhibit 10.2, respectively, to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 22, 2013, with such filing and each exhibit being incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. The representations, warranties and covenants contained in such agreements were made only for purposes of such agreements and as of specific dates, were solely for the benefit of the parties to such agreements, and may be subject to limitations agreed upon by the contracting parties, including being qualified by confidential disclosures exchanged between the parties in connection with execution of the agreements.
A Securities Registration on Form S-1 was filed with the SEC on April 25, 2013 and declared effective by the SEC on May 9, 2013 (the “Lincoln Park Registration Statement”), with such filing being herein incorporated by reference. The requisite Prospectus was filed with the SEC on May 10, 2013, with such filing being herein incorporated by reference.
Treppel $1,000,000 Bridge Revolving Credit Line.
On June 12, 2012 (the “Effective Date”), we entered into a bridge loan agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) with Jerry Treppel, our Chairman and CEO. Under the terms of the Loan Agreement, we have the right, in our sole discretion, to a line of credit (the “Credit Line”) in the maximum principal amount of up to $500,000 at any one time. By amendment, the maximum principal amount was increased to $1,000,000 in December 2012. Mr. Treppel provided the Credit Line for the purpose of supporting the acceleration of our product development activities. The outstanding amount will be evidenced by a promissory note which shall mature on the earlier of (i) such date as we raise at least $2,000,000 in gross proceeds from the sale of any of our equity securities or (ii) July 31, 2013, at which time the entire unpaid principal balance plus accrued interest thereon shall be due and payable in full. We may prepay any amounts owed without penalty. Any such prepayments shall first be attributable to interest due and owing and then to principal. Interest only shall be payable quarterly on July 1, October 1, January 1 and April 1 of each year. Prior to maturity or the occurrence of an Event of Default as defined in the Loan Agreement, we may borrow, repay, and reborrow under the Credit Line through maturity. Amounts borrowed under the Credit Line will bear interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum. As of March 31, 2013, the principal balance owed under the Credit Line was $600,000 with an additional $13,151 in accrued interest also owed, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Credit Line. For more detailed information, please see the Loan Agreement filed as an exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 13, 2012, and the amendment thereto filed as an exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 10, 2012 which forms 8-K and exhibits are incorporated by reference herein.
NJEDA Bonds
On August 31, 2005, the Company successfully completed a refinancing of a prior 1999 bond issue through the issuance of new tax-exempt bonds (the “Bonds”). The refinancing involved borrowing $4,155,000, evidenced by a 6.5% Series A Note in the principal amount of $3,660,000 maturing on September 1, 2030 and a 9% Series B Note in the principal amount of $495,000 maturing on September 1, 2012. The net proceeds, after payment of issuance costs, were used (i) to redeem the outstanding tax-exempt Bonds originally issued by the Authority on September 2, 1999, (ii) refinance other equipment financing and (iii) for the purchase of certain equipment to be used in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products. As of March 31, 2013, all of the proceeds were utilized by the Company for such stated purposes.
Interest is payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. The Bonds are collateralized by a first lien on the Company’s facility and equipment acquired with the proceeds of the original and refinanced Bonds. The related Indenture requires the maintenance of a $415,500 Debt Service Reserve Fund consisting of $366,000 from the Series A Notes proceeds and $49,500 from the Series B Notes proceeds. The Debt Service Reserve is maintained in restricted cash accounts that are classified in Other Assets. $1,274,311 of the proceeds had been deposited in a short-term restricted cash account to fund the purchase of manufacturing equipment and development of the Company’s facility.
Bond issue costs of $354,000 were paid from the bond proceeds and are being amortized over the life of the bonds. Amortization of bond issuance costs amounted to $14,132 for the fiscal year March 31, 2013.
The NJEDA Bonds require the Company to make an annual principal payment on September 1st of varying amounts as specified in the loan documents and semi-annual interest payments on March 1st and September 1st, equal to interest due on the outstanding principal at the applicable rate for the semi-annual period just ended.
The interest payments due on March 1st and September 1st of 2009, 2010 2011 and 2012, as well as the interest payment due on March 1st 2013, totaling $1,033,075 for all nine payments, were paid from the debt service reserved held in the restricted cash account, due to the Company not having sufficient funds to make such payments when they were due.
The principal payment due on September 1, 2009, totaling $210,000 was paid from the debt service reserve held in the restricted cash account, due to the Company not having sufficient funds to make the payment when due.
The Company did not have sufficient funds available to make the principal payments due on September 1, 2010, totaling $225,000 and requested that the Trustee withdraw such funds from the debt service reserve. The Company’s request was denied and accordingly the principal payment due on September 1, 2010, totaling $225,000 was not made.
The Company did not have sufficient funds available to make the principal payments due on September 1, 2011, totaling $470,000, with such amount including the principal payments due on September 1, 2010 and not paid. There were not sufficient funds available in the debt service reserve and accordingly, the principal payment totaling $470,000 was not made.
The Company did not have sufficient funds available to make the principal payments due on September 1, 2012, totaling $730,000, with such amount including the principal payments due on September 1, 2011 and not paid. There were not sufficient funds available in the debt service reserve and accordingly, the principal payment totaling $730,000 was not made.
Pursuant to the terms of the NJEDA Bonds, the Company is required to replenish any amounts withdrawn from the debt service reserve and used to make principal or interest payments in six monthly installments, each being equal to one-sixth of the amount withdrawn and with the first installment due on the 15th of the month in which the withdrawal from debt service reserve occurred and the remaining five monthly payments being due on the 15th of the five immediately subsequent months. The Company has, to date, made all payments required in relation to the withdrawals made from the debt service reserve on March 1, 2009, September 1, 2009, March 1, 2010, September 1, 2010, March 1, 2011, September 1, 2011, March 1, 2012, September 1, 2012 and March 1, 2013.
The Company does not expect to have sufficient available funds as of September 1, 2013, to make principal payments, totaling $915,000, and consisting of $185,000 due on September 1, 2013, plus scheduled principal payments totaling $730,000, consisting of $260,000 due on September 1, 2012, and not paid, plus $245,000 due on September 1, 2011 and not paid plus $225,000 due on September 1, 2010 and not paid.
The Company has received Notice of Default from the Trustee of the NJEDA Bonds in relation to the withdrawals from the debt service reserve, and no payment of scheduled principal amounts. Resolution of the Company’s default under the NJED Bonds will have a significant effect on our ability to operate in the future.
Due to issuance of a Notice of Default being received from the Trustee of the NJEDA Bonds, and until the event of default is waived or rescinded, the Company has classified the entire principal due, an amount aggregating $3.385 million, as a current liability.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
We have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that would be considered material to investors.
Effects of Inflation
We are subject to price risks arising from price fluctuations in the market prices of the products that we sell. Management does not believe that inflation risk is material to our business or our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
Results of Consolidated Operations:
Year Ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the Year Ended March 31, 2012
Our revenues for Fiscal 2013 were $3.4 million an increase of $1.0 million or approximately 40% from revenues for the comparable period of the prior year, and consisted of $2.2 million in manufacturing fees, $0.4 million in lab and product development fees and $0.8 million in royalties and license fees. Revenues for Fiscal 2012 consisted of $1.1 million in manufacturing fees, $0.7 million in lab and product development fees, and $0.6 million in royalties and license fees. Manufacturing fees increased by approximately 98% due to the launch of three new products during Fiscal 2013 and the continued growth of the two products launched during Fiscal 2012. Lab and product development fees decreased by approximately 42% due to decreased lab stability study revenues relating the discontinuance of the Lodrane® Extended Release Products. Royalties and license fees increased by approximately 24% due to the growth of the Phentermine and Hydromorphone product revenue streams and the related profit splits earned by the Company from TAGI Pharmaceuticals Inc.
Research and development costs for Fiscal 2013 were $1.0 million, a decrease of $0.8 million or approximately 44% from $1.7 million of such costs for the comparable period of the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to the launch of five new products during a period beginning at the end of Fiscal 2012 and throughout Fiscal 2013. Prior to the launch of a new product, research and development costs are higher, due to the increased resources required to get a new product approved and introduced into the market. Subsequent to launch, these research and development costs are no longer incurred, as the new products are now revenue producing, commercial manufacturing operations. Research and development costs currently being incurred are related to the development of the Company’s pipeline of products.
General and administrative expenses for Fiscal2013 were $1.5 million an increase of $0.1 million or approximately 7% from $1.4 million of general and administrative expenses for the comparable period of the prior year. The increase was primarily due to the introduction of significant new, annual fees being charged to the Company by the US FDA during Fiscal 2013, substantial increases in the cost of providing health insurance benefits to our employees and increased legal fees related to funding activities.
Depreciation and amortization for Fiscal 2013 was $0.1 million, a decrease of $0.1 million or approximately 43%, from $0.2 million for the comparable period of the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to increased utilization of manufacturing assets in commercial production resulting from the growing volumes of our products being sold in the market.
Non-cash compensation through the issuance of stock options and warrants for Fiscal 2013 was $0.046 million, an increase of $0.021 million, or approximately 88% from $0.024 million for the comparable period of the prior year. The increase was due to the issuance of options to purchase an aggregate of 985,000 shares of Common Stock to various employees during Fiscal 2013 and the timing of the amortization schedule established at the time of issuance of the related stock options and warrants.
As a result of the foregoing, our loss from operations for Fiscal 2013 was $1.6 million, compared to a loss from operations of $2.0 million for Fiscal 2012.
Other expenses for Fiscal 2013 were a net income of $2.7 million, an increase in other net income of $16.3 million from the net other expense of $13.6 million for the comparable period of the prior year. The increase in other income was due to derivative income relating to changes in the fair value of our preferred shares and outstanding warrants during Fiscal 2013 totaling $3.5 million, as compared to a net derivative expense of $12.7 million for the comparable period of the prior year. Please note that derivative income/(expenses) are most significantly determined by the closing price of the Company’s Common Stock as of the end of each annual or quarterly reporting period, and also as of the date on which shares of the Company’s convertible preferred stock are converted into common stock, with incomes being generated by decreases in such closing prices and expenses being incurred by increases in such closing prices. The closing price of the Company’s Common Stock as of March 31, 2013 was $0.0761, as compared to a closing price of $0.0900 as of March 31, 2012. Closing prices on the various dates on which shares of convertible preferred stock were converted to common stock ranged from $0.08 to $0.17 during the year ended March 31, 2013. These variances in the closing price of the Company’s Common Stock as compared with the closing price at the end of the immediately preceding fiscal year end were significant factors in the derivative income recorded during the year ended March 31, 2013.
As a result of the foregoing, our net income for Fiscal 2013 was $1.5 million, compared to a net loss of $15.1 million for Fiscal 2012.
Material Changes in Financial Condition
Our working capital (total current assets less total current liabilities) deficiency was reduced to $2.8 million as of March 31, 2013 from a working capital deficiency of $3.1 million as of March 31, 2012, primarily due to the loss from operations sustained during Fiscal 2013 being financed by approximately $1.0 million in cash warrant exercises (a capital financing), and the issuance of Series E Preferred Stock (a non-current derivative liability financing). Capital and non-current financings provide cash to the Company without a corresponding current liability and accordingly have an accretive effect on working capital.
We experienced negative cash flows from operations of $1.9 million for Fiscal 2013, primarily due to our net income of $1.5 million, offset by non-cash other income items totaling $4.1 million included in the net income, combined with increases in accounts receivable and inventory of $0.3 million and $1.1 million respectively.
ITEM 7AQUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Not applicable
ITEM 8FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Attached hereto and filed as a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K are our Consolidated Financial Statements, beginning on page.
ITEM 9CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None
ITEM 9ACONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers, we evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report were not effective so that that the information required to be disclosed by us in reports filed under the Exchange Act is (i) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and (ii) accumulated and communicated to our management to allow for timely decisions regarding disclosure. A controls system cannot provide absolute assurance, however, that the objectives of the controls system are met, and no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within a company have been detected.
Management has determined that, as of March 31, 2013, there were material weaknesses in both the design and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
The deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are related to the lack of segregation of duties due to the size of our accounting department, which replaced an outside accounting firm and non-employee Chief Financial Officer on July 1, 2009, and limited enterprise resource planning systems. When our financial position improves, we intend to hire additional personnel and implement enterprise resource planning systems required to remedy such deficiencies.
Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting has been designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
Our internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of our assets; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorization of our management and directors; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements or fraudulent actions. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
This annual report does not include an attestation report of our registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management's report was not subject to attestation by our registered public accounting firm because we are not an accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer.
Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2013. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Based on that assessment under those criteria, management has determined that, at March 31, 2013, there were material weaknesses in both the design and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
The deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are related to the lack of segregation of duties due to the size of our accounting department, which replaced an outside accounting firm and non-employee Chief Financial Officer on July 1, 2009, and limited enterprise resource planning systems. When our financial position improves, we intend to hire additional personnel and implement enterprise resource planning systems required to remedy such deficiencies.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2013 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
ITEM 9BOTHER INFORMATION
None
PART III
ITEM 10DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The following sets forth biographical information about each of our directors and executive officers as of the date of this report:
(1)Mr. Treppel also served as Chairman of the Board since November 6, 2008 and CEO since September 15, 2009.
(2)Dr. Nigalaye has served as a Director since June 2009 and as Chief Scientific Officer since September 2009.
Ram Potti, one of the Epic appointed directors, resigned as a director of the Company in December 2012.
Chris Dick served as the Company’s President, Chief Operating Officer and a Director until he stepped down from these positions in May 2013.
The principal occupations and employment of each Director during the past five years is set forth below. In each instance in which dates are not provided in connection with a nominee’s business experience, such nominee has held the position indicated for at least the past five years.
Jerry Treppel has served as a Director since October 28, 2008, Chairman of the Board since November 6, 2008 and Chief Executive Officer since September 15, 2009. Mr. Treppel served as the managing member of Wheaten Capital Management LLC, a capital management company focusing on investment in the health care sector from 2003 to 2009. From October 2008 to March 2013, Mr. Treppel served as managing director of Ledgemont Capital Group LLC, a boutique merchant bank that provides access to capital and corporate advisory services to public and private companies. In April 2013, Mr. Treppel joined ArcLight Advisors LLC, a boutique investment bank specializing in health care, as a Managing Director. Over the past 20 years, Mr. Treppel was an equity research analyst focusing on the specialty pharmaceuticals and generic drug sectors at several investment banking firms including Banc of America Securities, Warburg Dillon Read LLC (now UBS), and Kidder, Peabody & Co. He previously served as a healthcare services analyst at various firms, including Merrill Lynch & Co. He also held administrative positions in the healthcare services industry early in his career. From 2003 to 2009, Mr. Treppel served as a member of the board of directors of Akorn, Incorporated (NASDAQ: AKRX), a specialty pharmaceutical company engaged in the development, manufacturing and marketing of branded and multi-source pharmaceutical products and vaccines. Mr. Treppel also served as the Chair of Akorn’s Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and as a member of its Audit Committee and Compensation Committee. Mr. Treppel holds a BA in Biology from Rutgers College in New Brunswick, N.J., an MHA in Health Administration from Washington University in St. Louis, Mo., and an MBA in Finance from New York University. Mr. Treppel has been a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) since 1988. Mr. Treppel’s knowledge of the pharmaceutical industry as well as his education credentials and his experience as a member of the board of directors of Akorn, Incorporated led to the conclusion that he is qualified to serve as a director.
Dr. Barry Dash has served as a Director since April 2005, Member of the Audit Committee since April 2005, Member of the Nominating Committee since April 2005 and Member and Chairman of the Compensation Committee since June 2007. Dr. Dash has been, since 1995, President and Managing Member of Dash Associates, LLC., an independent consultant to the pharmaceutical and health industries. From 1983 to 1996 he was employed by Whitehall-Robins Healthcare, a division of American Home Products Corporation (now known as Wyeth), initially as Vice President of Scientific Affairs, then as Senior Vice President of Scientific Affairs and then as Senior Vice President of Advanced Technologies, during which time he personally supervised six separate departments: Medical and Clinical Affairs, Regulatory Affairs, Technical Affairs, Research and Development, Analytical R&D and Quality Management/Q.C. Dr. Dash had been employed by the Whitehall Robins Healthcare from 1960 to 1976, during which time he served as Director of Product Development Research, Assistant Vice President of Product Development and Vice President of Scientific Affairs. Dr. Dash had been employed by J.B. Williams Company (Nabisco Brands, Inc.) from 1978 to 1982. From 1976 to 1978 he was Vice President and Director of Laboratories of the Consumer Products Division of American Can Company. He currently serves on the board of directors of GeoPharma, Inc. (NASDQ: GORX). Dr. Dash holds a Ph.D. from the University of Florida and M.S. and B.S. degrees from Columbia University where he was Assistant Professor at the College of Pharmaceutical Sciences from 1956 to 1960. He is a member of the American Pharmaceutical Association, the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the Society of Cosmetic Chemist, American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists, Drug Information Association, American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, and Diplomate American Board of Forensic Examiners. He is the author of scientific publications and patents in the pharmaceutical field. Dr. Dash’s extensive education in pharmaceutical sciences and his experience in the development of scientific products, including his experience in regulatory affairs, led to the conclusion that he is qualified to serve as a director.
Chris Dick has served as Chief Operating Officer since October 2008, acting Chief Executive Officer from November 2008 to September 15, 2009, and President since April 2009; Director from October 20, 2008 to June 24, 2009, and since October 23, 2009. Mr. Dick began at Elite in November 2002 as Vice President of Business Development. Since March 2006, Mr. Dick has been Executive Vice President of Corporate Development. From 1999 to 2002, Mr. Dick served as Director of Business Development for Elan Drug Delivery, Inc. responsible for licensing and business development of Elan’s portfolio of drug delivery technologies. From 1978 to 1999, he held various business and technical positions at FMC Corporation which included responsibility for business development and marketing for EnTec, a drug delivery business unit within FMC Corporation’s Pharmaceutical Division and marketing for its pharmaceutical functional coatings product line. Mr. Dick holds an M.B.A. from the Stern School of Business, New York University, and a B.S. and M.S. in Chemical Engineering from Cornell University. Mr. Dick’s experience and qualifications in the pharmaceutical industry, specifically in the area of business and product development, provides specific attributes and qualifications to serve as a director, President and COO for the Company. Mr. Dick stepped down from his positions as Director, President and Chief Operating Officer in March 2013.
Dr. Ashok G. Nigalaye has served as a Director since June 24, 2009, member of the Compensation Committee since October 23, 2009 and Chief Scientific Officer since September 15, 2009. Dr. Nigalaye was elected as a member of Elite’s Board in June 2009 as one of three directors designated by Epic pursuant to the terms of the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement. Since December 2010, Dr. Nigalaye has been the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Epic Pharma, LLC, a manufacturer of generic pharmaceuticals and Elite’s strategic partner pursuant to the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement. From July 2008 to December 2010, Dr. Nigalaye served as Epic Pharma’s President and Chief Executive Officer. From August 1993 to February 2008, Dr. Nigalaye served as Vice President of Scientific Affairs and Operations of Actavis Totowa LLC, a manufacturer of generic pharmaceuticals, where he was responsible for directing and organizing company activities relating to pharmaceutical drug manufacturing, regulatory affairs and research and development. Dr. Nigalaye currently serves as a director of GTI Inc., a privately held company. Dr. Nigalaye holds a B.S. in Pharmacy from the University of Bombay, an M.S. in Industrial Pharmacy from Long Island University, and a Ph.D. in Industrial Pharmacy from St. John’s University. Dr. Nigalaye is also a licensed pharmacist in the State of New York. Dr. Nigalaye’s extensive education in pharmaceutical sciences and experience as a director and officer of pharmaceutical companies led to the conclusion that he is qualified to serve as a director.
Jeenarine Narine has served as a Director since June 24, 2009 and member of the Nominating Committee since October 23, 2009. Mr. Narine was elected as a member of Elite’s Board in June 2009 as one of three directors designated by Epic pursuant to the terms of the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement. Since December 2010, Mr. Narine has been the President and Chief Operating Officer of Epic Pharma, LLC, a manufacturer of generic pharmaceuticals and Elite’s strategic partner pursuant to the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement, in which capacity he oversees all manufacturing operations. From July 2008 to December 2010, Mr. Narine served as Epic Pharma’s Executive Vice President of Manufacturing and Operations. Mr. Narine is also the current President of Eniran Manufacturing Inc., a contract manufacturer of dietary and nutritional supplements, and has held such office since 2000. In addition, Mr. Narine has been since 1989 the President of A&J Machine Inc., a company owned by Mr. Narine that is engaged in the sales of new and used pharmaceutical manufacturing equipment. In addition to this professional experience, Mr. Narine graduated from the Guyana Industrial Institute, where he studied Metalology and Welding. Mr. Narine’s experience as President and Chief Operating Officer and, previously, as Executive Vice President of Manufacturing and Operations of Epic Pharma LLC and his knowledge of pharmaceutical manufacturing equipment led to the conclusion that he is qualified to serve as a director.
Jeffrey Whitnell has served as a Director since October 23, 2009, Chairman of the Audit Committee since October 23, 2009, member of the nominating committee since October 23, 2009 and designated by the Board as an “audit committee financial expert” as defined under applicable rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, since October 23, 2009. Since September 2010, Mr. Whitnell has been the Chief Financial Officer of Neurowave Medical Technologies, a medical device company. From June 2009 to June 2010, Mr. Whitnell provided financial consulting services to various healthcare companies, including Neurowave Medical Technologies. From June 2004 to June 2009, Mr. Whitnell was Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance at Akorn, Inc. From June 2002 to June 2004, Mr. Whitnell was Vice President of Finance and Treasurer for Ovation Pharmaceuticals. From 1997 to 2001, Mr. Whitnell was Vice President of Finance and Treasurer for MediChem Research. Prior to 1997, Mr. Whitnell held various finance positions at Akzo Nobel and Motorola. Mr. Whitnell began his career as an auditor with Arthur Andersen & Co. He is a certified public accountant and holds an M.B.A. in Finance from the University of Chicago and a B.S. in Accounting from the University of Illinois. Mr. Whitnell’s qualifications as an accounting and audit expert provide specific experience to serve as a director for the Company.
Carter J. Ward has served as Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer of the Company since July 1, 2009. Prior to joining the Company, from July 2005 to April 2009, Mr. Ward filled multiple finance and supply chain leadership roles with the Actavis Group and its U.S. subsidiary, Amide Pharmaceuticals. From September 2004 to June 2005, Mr. Ward was a consultant, mainly engaged in improving internal controls and supporting Sarbanes Oxley compliance of Centennial Communications Inc., a NASDAQ listed wireless communications provider. From 1999 to September 2004, Mr. Ward was the Chief Financial Officer for Positive Healthcare/Ceejay Healthcare, a U.S.-Indian joint venture engaged in the manufacture and distribution of generic pharmaceuticals and nutraceuticals in India. Mr. Ward began his career as a certified public accountant in the audit department of KPMG and is a Certified Supply Chain Professional (“CSCP”). Mr. Ward holds a B.S. in Accounting from Long Island University, Brooklyn, NY, from where he graduated summa cum laude. Mr. Ward’s experience and expertise in the area of finance and more specifically, as a Certified Supply Chain Professional, provides the qualifications, attributes and skills to serve as an officer for the Company.
Each director holds office until the next annual meeting of stockholders or until such director’s death, resignation or removal.
There are no family relationships between any of our directors and executive officers.
Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act
Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act requires our Officers, Directors, and persons who own more than ten percent of a registered class of equity securities, to file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission reflecting their initial position of ownership on Form 3 and changes in ownership on Form 4 or Form 5. Based solely on a review of the copies of such Forms received by us, we found that, during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, three of our Officers and Directors and two entities that had beneficial ownership of more than ten percent of a registered class of equity securities had not complied with all applicable Section 16(a) filing requirements on a timely basis with regard to transactions occurring in Fiscal 2013. Specifically, as follows:
Committees of the Board
The Board of Directors has an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee and a Nominating Committee.
Audit Committee
During Fiscal 2013, the members of the Audit Committee were Jeffrey Whitnell (Chairman of the Audit Committee), Ram Potti and Dr. Barry Dash. We deem Messrs. Whitnell and Dash to be independent and Mr. Whitnell to be qualified as an audit committee financial expert. The Board of Directors has determined that Messrs. Whitnell and Dash are independent directors as (i) defined in Rule 10A-3(b)(1)(ii) under the Exchange Act and (ii) under Sections 803A(2) and 803B(2)(a) of the NYSE MKT LLC Company Guide (although our securities are not listed on the NYSE MKT LLCE or any other national exchange). Mr. Potti resigned as a Director and member of Audit Committee in December 2012. His seat on the Audit Committee has not been replaced. As of March 31, 2013, the Audit Committee accordingly consists of Mr. Whitnell and Dr. Dash.
Nominating Committee
During Fiscal 2013, the members of the Nominating Committee were Ram Potti, Dr. Barry Dash and Jeenarine Narine. There were no material changes to the procedures by which security holders may recommend nominees to our Board of Directors since the filing of our last Annual Report on Form 10-K. Mr. Potti resigned as a Director and member of Nominating Committee in December 2012. His seat on the Nominating Committee has not been replaced. As of March 31, 2013, the Nominating Committee accordingly consists of Mr. Narine and Dr. Dash.
Compensation Committee
During Fiscal 2013, the members of the Compensation Committee were Dr. Barry Dash (Chairman of the Nominating Committee), Dr. Ashok Nigalaye and Jeffrey Whitnell.
Code of Conduct and Ethics
At the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders held on June 22, 2004, the Board of Directors adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that is applicable to the Company’s directors, officers and employees. A copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on our website at www.elitepharma.com, under Investor Relations.
ITEM 11EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
Compensation discussion and analysis summary
Our approach to executive compensation, one of the most important and complex aspects of corporate governance, is influenced by our belief in rewarding people for consistently strong execution and performance. We believe that the ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers and other key employees is essential to our long-term success.
Compensation Linked to Attainment of Performance Goals
Our plan to obtain and retain highly skilled employees is to provide significant incentive compensation opportunities and market competitive salaries. The plan was intended to link individual employee objectives with overall company strategies and results, and to reward executive officers and significant employees for their individual contributions to those strategies and results. Furthermore, we believe that equity awards serve to align the interests of our executives with those of our stockholders. As such, equity is a key component of our compensation program.
Role of the Compensation Committee and its Advisors
The Company formed the Compensation Committee in June 2007. Since the formation of the Compensation Committee all elements of the executives’ compensation are determined by the Compensation Committee, which is comprised of a two independent non-employee directors, and one director who is also the Company’s Chief Scientific Officer. However, the Compensation Committee’s decisions concerning the compensation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer are subject to ratification by the independent directors of the Board of Directors. As of March 31, 2013, the members of the Compensation Committee were Barry Dash, Ashok Nigalaye and Jeffrey Whitnell. The Committee operates pursuant to a charter. Under the Compensation Committee charter, the Compensation Committee has authority to retain compensation consultants, outside counsel, and other advisors that the committee deems appropriate, in its sole discretion, to assist it in discharging its duties, and to approve the terms of retention and fees to be paid to such consultants.
Named Executive Officers and Key Employees
The named executive officers and key employees for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013 are:
·Jerry Treppel, Chief Executive Officer for the full year
·Chris C. Dick, President and Chief Operating Officer for the full year
·Carter J. Ward, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer for the full year.
These individuals are referred to collectively in this report as the “Named Executive Officers”.
Please note that Chris C. Dick stepped down from his positions as President and Chief Operating Officer in May 2013.
Our executive compensation program
Overview
The primary elements of our executive compensation program are base salary, incentive cash and stock bonus opportunities and equity incentives typically in the form of stock option grants or payment of a portion of annual salary as stock. Although we provide other types of compensation, these three elements are the principal means by which we provide the Named Executive Officers with compensation opportunities.
The annual bonus opportunity and equity compensation components of the executive compensation program reflect our belief that a portion of an executive’s compensation should be performance-based. This compensation is performance-based because payment is tied to the achievement of corporate performance goals. To the extent that performance goals are not achieved, executives will receive a lesser amount of total compensation.
Elements of our executive compensation program
Base Salary
We pay a base salary to certain of the Named Executive Officers, with such payments being made in either cash, Common Stock or a combination of cash and Common Stock. In general, base salaries for the Named Executive Officers are determined by evaluating the responsibilities of the executive’s position, the executive’s experience and the competitive marketplace. Base salary adjustments are considered and take into account changes in the executive’s responsibilities, the executive’s performance and changes in the competitive marketplace. We believe that the base salaries of the Named Executive Officers are appropriate within the context of the compensation elements provided to the executives and because they are at a level which remains competitive in the marketplace.
Bonuses
The Board of Directors may authorize us to give discretionary bonuses, payable in cash or shares of Common Stock, to the Named Executive Officers and other key employees. Such bonuses are designed to motivate the Named Executive Officers and other employees to achieve specified corporate, business unit and/or individual, strategic, operational and other performance objectives.
Stock Options
Stock options constitute performance-based compensation because they have value to the recipient only if the price of our Common Stock increases. Stock options for each of the Named Executive Officers generally vest over time, obtainment of a corporate goal or a combination of the two.
The grant of stock options at Elite is designed to motivate our Named Executive Officers to achieve our short-term and long-term corporate goals.
Retirement and Deferred Compensation Benefits
We do not presently provide the Named Executive Officers with a defined benefit pension plan or any supplemental executive retirement plans, nor do we provide the Named Executive Officers with retiree health benefits. We have adopted a deferred compensation plan under Section 401(k) of the Code. The plan provides for employees to defer compensation on a pretax basis subject to certain limits, however, Elite does not provide a matching contribution to its participants.
The retirement and deferred compensation benefits provided to the Named Executive Officers are not material factors considered in making other compensation determinations with respect to Named Executive Officers.
Post-Termination/Change of Control Compensation
We do not presently provide the Named Executive Officers with any plan or arrangement in connection with any termination, including, without limitation, through retirement, resignation, severance or constructive termination (including a change in responsibilities) of such Named Executive Officer’s employment with the Company. We also do no presently provide the Named Executive Officers any plan or arrangement in connection with a change in control of the Company.
Perquisites
As described in more detail below, the perquisites provided to certain of the Named Executive Officers consist of car allowances and life insurance premiums. These perquisites represent a small fraction of the total compensation of each such Named Executive Officer. The value of the perquisites we provide are taxable to the Named Executive Officers and the incremental cost to us of providing these perquisites is reflected in the Summary Compensation Table. The Board of Directors believes that the perquisites provided are reasonable and appropriate. For more information on perquisites provided to the Named Executive Officers, please see the “All Other Compensation” column of the Summary Compensation Table and “Agreements with Named Executive Officers,” below.
Agreements with Named Executive Officers
Jerry Treppel
On December 1, 2008, Elite entered into a compensation agreement with Mr. Treppel (the “First Treppel Agreement”) providing for the terms under which Mr. Treppel will serve as the non-executive Chairman of the Board. Pursuant to the First Treppel Agreement, Mr. Treppel will serve as the non-executive Chairman of the Board until immediately prior to the next annual meeting of the Company’s stockholders; provided, however, that following such annual meeting, and each subsequent annual meeting of the Company’s stockholders, if the Board elects Mr. Treppel as the non-executive Chairman of the Board, the term of the First Treppel Agreement will be extended through the earlier of (a) the date of the next subsequent annual meeting of the Company’s stockholders and (b) the date upon which Mr. Treppel no longer serves as the non-executive Chairman.
During the term of the First Treppel Agreement, including any applicable extensions thereof, Mr. Treppel is entitled to cash compensation of $2,083.33 on a monthly basis in lieu of, and not in addition to, any cash directors’ fees and other compensation paid to other non-employee members of the Board. Mr. Treppel is also entitled to reimbursement of any expenses reasonably incurred in the performance of his duties under the First Treppel Agreement upon presentation of proper written evidence of such expenditures.
In addition, pursuant to the terms of the First Treppel Agreement, Elite granted to Mr. Treppel under its 2004 Stock Option Plan non-qualified stock options to purchase 180,000 shares of Common Stock of Elite, par value $0.001 per share, exercisable for a period of 10 years at an exercise price per share of $0.06, subject to the terms and conditions of the related option agreement.
Under the First Treppel Agreement, Elite has also agreed to indemnify Mr. Treppel to the fullest extent permitted by law in accordance with the By-Laws of Elite against (a) reasonable expenses, including attorneys’ fees, incurred by him in connection with any threatened, pending, or completed civil, criminal, administrative, investigative, or arbitrative action, suit, or proceeding (and any appeal therein) seeking to hold him liable for actions taken in his capacity as Chairman of the Board, and (b) reasonable payments made by him in satisfaction of any judgment, money decree, fine (including assessment of excise tax with respect to an employee benefit plan), penalty or settlement for which he may have become liable in any such action, suit or proceeding, provided that any such expenses or payments are not the result of Mr. Treppel’s gross negligence, willful misconduct or reckless actions.
Either party may terminate the First Treppel Agreement, effective immediately upon the giving of written notice to the other party. If no such written notice is given, then the term of the First Treppel Agreement shall end immediately prior to the next annual meeting of the Company’s stockholders (the “Treppel Term”), provided however, that following such annual meeting, and each subsequent meeting of the Company’s stockholders, if the Board elects Mr. Treppel to continue to serve as the non-executive Chairman of the Board, the Treppel Term shall be extended through the earlier of (a) the date of the next subsequent annual meeting of the Company’s stockholders and (b) the date upon which Mr. Treppel shall no longer serve as the non-executive Chairman of the Board.
On September 15, 2009, Mr. Treppel was appointed Chief Executive Officer of the Company. He continues to also serve as Chairman of the Board and he has agreed to forego any additional compensation related to his activities and Chief Executive Officer. Accordingly, Mr. Treppel’s compensation as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board remains unchanged from the First Treppel Agreement.
On October 23, 2009, at the meeting of the Board held immediately after the annual stockholders meeting, Mr. Treppel’s compensation as Chairman of the Board was revised to an annual amount of $30,000, payable in common shares of the Company. The amount of common shares to be issued to Mr. Treppel in payment of compensation due to him as Chairman of the Board is calculated on a quarterly basis, and is equal to the quotient of the quarterly amount due of $7,500, divided by the average daily closing price of the Company’s Common Stock for the quarter just ended.
Mr. Treppel agreed to forego any additional compensation for his services as Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
Chris C. Dick
In November 13, 2009, we entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Dick as our President and Chief Operating Officer (the “Dick Employment Agreement”). The Dick Employment Agreement is terminable at the will of either the Company or Mr. Dick, with or without notice and for any reason or no reason.
The Dick Employment Agreement provided for a base salary of $200,000, with $175,000 of this amount being paid in cash and $25,000 of this amount being paid in restricted shares of the Company’s Common Stock. The Common Stock component of Mr. Dick’s compensation was computed on a quarterly basis, with the number of shares issued equal to the quotient of the quarterly amount due of $6,250 divided by the average daily closing price of the Company’s Common Stock for the quarter just ended.
In addition, the Dick Employment Agreement provided for 25 days of paid vacation, the right to participate in all health insurance plans maintained by the Company for its employees, a monthly auto allowance of $700 and term life insurance in the amount of $500,000 payable to Mr. Dick’s estate.
The Dick Employment Agreement also required Mr. Dick’s execution of a Proprietary Rights Agreement.
The Board of Directors of the Company increased Mr. Dick’s base salary to $205,000 retroactive to January 1, 2013. This $5,000 increase to be paid in restricted shares of the Company’s Common Stock. The Common Stock component of Mr. Dick’s compensation is to be computed on a quarterly and pro-rata basis, with the number of shares issued equal to the quotient of the quarterly amount due of $7,500 divided by the average daily closing price of the Company’s Common Stock for the quarter just ended.
Mr. Dick stepped down from his employment with the Company on May 24, 2013 and accordingly, the Dick Employment Agreement was terminated. Mr. Dick continues to consult for the Company.
Carter J. Ward
On November 12, 2009, the Company entered into an employment agreement (the “Ward Employment Agreement”). Pursuant to the terms of the Ward Employment Agreement, Mr. Ward continues as an at-will employee of the Company as its Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Ward receives a base salary of $150,000, with $125,000 of such amount being paid in accordance with the Company’s payroll practices and $25,000 of such amount being paid by the issuance of restricted shares of Common Stock, in lieu of cash. The Common Stock component of Mr. Ward’s compensation is to be computed on a quarterly basis, with the number of shares issued equal to the quotient of the quarterly amount due of $6,250 divided by the average daily closing price of the Company’s Common Stock for the quarter just ended.
The Board of Directors increased Mr. Ward’s base salary to $155,000 retroactive to January 1, 2013. This $5,000 increase to be paid by the issuance of restricted shares of Common Stock. The Common Stock component of Mr. Ward’s compensation is to be computed on a quarterly basis, with the number of shares issued equal to the quotient of the quarterly amount due of $7,500 divided by the average daily closing price of the Company’s Common Stock for the quarter just ended.
Hedging Policy
We do not permit the Named Executive Officers to “hedge” ownership by engaging in short sales or trading in any options contracts involving securities.
Options Exercises and Stock Vested
No options have been exercised by our Named Executive Officers during the 2013 Fiscal Year.
Pension Benefits
We do not provide pension benefits to the Named Executive Officers
Nonqualified Deferred Compensation
We do not have any defined contribution or other plan that provides for the deferral of compensation on a basis that is not tax-qualified.
Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change of Control
We do not presently provide the Named Executive Officers with any plan or arrangement in connection with any termination, including, without limitation, through retirement, resignation, severance or constructive termination (including a change in responsibilities) of such Named Executive Officer’s employment with the Company. We also do not presently provide the Named Executive Officers any plan or arrangement in connection with a change in control of the Company.
Compensation of named executive officers
Summary Compensation Table
(1)Represents the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
(2)Represents compensation due to Mr. Treppel for his service as Chairman of the Board of Directors. Mr. Treppel receives no salary or additional compensation for his service as Chief Executive Officer. Compensation due to Mr. Treppel is paid via the issuance of Common Stock, pursuant to the Company’s Director compensation policy.
A total of 284,662 shares of Common Stock were issued to Mr. Treppel in payment of compensation due to him for Fiscal 2012. A total of 202,998 shares of Common Stock were issued to, and 90,200 shares of Common Stock are due and owing to, Mr. Treppel in payment of compensation due to him for Fiscal 2013.
(3)Represents total salaries due to Mr. Dick pursuant to the Dick Employment. Of the total salary amount, $175,000 was paid in cash as salary in accordance with the Company’s payroll practices, and $25,000 annually is to be paid via the issuance of Common Shares in lieu of cash through December 31, 2012 and $30,000 annually is to be paid via the issuance of Common Shares in lieu of cash since January 1, 2013. A total of 237,220 shares of Common Stock were issued to Mr. Dick in payment of salaries due to him for Fiscal 2012. A total of 169,165 shares of Common Stock were issued to, and 90,200 shares of Common Stock are due and owing to, Mr. Dick in payment of salaries due to him for Fiscal 2013.
(4)Represents amounts paid for auto allowance
(5)Represents total salaries due to Mr. Ward pursuant to the Ward Employment. Of the total salary amount, $125,000 was paid in cash as salary in accordance with the Company’s payroll practices, and $25,000 is to be paid annually via the issuance of Common Shares in lieu of cash through December 31, 2012 and $30,000 annually is to be paid via the issuance of Common Shares in lieu of cash since January 1, 2013. A total of 237,220 shares of Common Stock were issued to Mr. Ward in payment of salaries due to him for Fiscal 2012. A total of 169,165 shares of Common Stock were issued to, and 90,200 shares of Common Stock are due and owing to, Mr. Ward in payment of salaries due to him for Fiscal 2013.
(6)Represents discretionary bonuses award to Mr. Ward by the Chief Executive Officer
Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End
The following table sets forth information concerning stock option awards held by Named Executive Officers as of March 31, 2013:
(1)Options vested on June 13, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively.
(2)Options vested on July 14, 2005.
(3)Options vested on November 3, 2006.
(4)These options vest upon the closing of an exclusive product license for the first of the United States national market, the entire European Union market or the Japan market or product sale transaction of all of our ownership rights in the United States (only once for each individual product) for our first Non-Generic Opioid Product.
(6)These options vest as follows: upon the commencement of the first Phase III clinical trial relating to the first “Non-Generic Opioid Product” developed by the Company as to 125,000 options and relating to the second “Non-Generic Opioid Product” developed by the Company as to 75,000 options.
(7)Total of 200,000 options granted with such options vesting in annual increments on January 18, 2011, 2012 and 2013, with each increment equal to one-third of the total options granted.
(8)Total of 200,000 options granted with such options vesting in annual increments on June 19, 2013, 2014 and 2015, with each increment equal to one-third of the total options granted.
(9)Options vested on December 1, 2009
(10)Options vested on December 1, 2010
(11)Options vest on December 1, 2011
DIRECTOR COMPENSATION
The following table sets forth information concerning director compensation for the year ended March 31, 2013:
(1)Represents directors fees earned during the quarters ended June 30, 2012, September 30, 2012 and December 31, 2012. Each Director received 135,332 shares of Common Stock in payment of these director fees, pursuant to the Company’s policy regarding payment of Directors’ fees.
(2)Represents directors fees earned during the quarter ended March 31, 2013 for which 60,133 shares of Common Stock is due and owing to each Director.
*Mr. Potti resigned as a director in December 2012.
Director Fee Compensation
The Company’s policy regarding director fees is as follows: ((i) Directors who are employees or consultants of the Company (and/or any of its subsidiaries), except for Mr. Jerry Treppel, Chief Executive Officer and Dr. Ashok Nigalaye, Chief Scientific Officer, receive no additional remuneration for serving as directors or members of committees of the Board; (ii) all Directors are entitled to reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with their attendance at the Board or committee meetings; (iii) Directors who are not employees or consultants of the Company (and/or any of its subsidiaries) receive $20,000 annual retainer fee, payable on a quarterly basis, in arrears, for their service on the Board and all committees; (iv) The Chairman of the Board receives a $30,000 annual retainer fee, payable on a quarterly basis, in arrears; (v) Directors and the Chairman do not receive any additional compensation for attendance at or chairing of any meetings. (vi) Mr. Jerry Treppel receives no additional compensation, above the annual retainer fee due to the Chairman of the Board, for his services as Chief Executive Officer (vii) Dr. Ashok Nigalaye receives no additional compensation, above the annual retainer fee due to Directors, for his services as Chief Scientific Officer. (viii) All Director and Chairman fees are paid via the issuance of Common Stock of the Company, in lieu of cash, as described below.
Director Equity Compensation
Members of the Board of Directors and the Chairman are paid their annual retainer fees via the issuance of restricted shares of Common Stock of the Company, in lieu of cash. The number of shares to be issued to each Director and the Chairman is equal to the quotient of the quarterly amount due to each Director and the Chairman, respectively, divided by the average daily closing price of the Company’s stock for the quarter just ended.
Members of the Board of Directors during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012 did not receive any options or equity compensation for serving as directors other than shares of Common Stock earned in lieu of cash in relation to Director and Chairman fees due.
Other
The Company’s Articles of Incorporation provide for the indemnification of each of the Company’s directors to the fullest extent permitted under Nevada General Corporation Law.
ITEM 12SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The following table sets forth certain information, as of June 13, 2013 (except as otherwise indicated), regarding beneficial ownership of our Common Stock by (i) each person who is known by us to own beneficially more than 5% of the Common Stock, (ii) each of our directors and nominees for director, (iii) each of the Named Executive Officers (as defined below) and (iv) all our directors and executive officers as a group. As of June 13, 2013, we had 394,597,274 shares of Common Stock outstanding (exclusive of 100,000 treasury shares). The 1,600 shares of Series E Preferred Stock outstanding as of June 13, 2013 are entitled to vote, on an as-converted basis, with the Common Stock on any matter presented to the holders of our Common Stock for their action or consideration at any meeting of our stockholders (or by written consent of stockholders in lieu of meeting). As of June 13, 2013 there were 24 shares of Series C Preferred Stock outstanding and 1,085 shares of Series G Preferred Stock outstanding, with all such shares of Series C and Series G Preferred Stock being nonvoting.
As of June 13, 2013, none of the individuals listed below beneficially owned any shares of Series G Preferred Stock or Series E Preferred Stock, except for the following (as further described in the footnotes to the table): (a) 1,600 shares of Series E Preferred Stock were beneficially owned by Messrs. Ashok G. Nigalaye, Jeenarine Narine and Ram Potti.
As used in the table below and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K, the term beneficial ownership with respect to a security consists of sole or shared voting power, including the power to vote or direct the vote, and/or sole or shared investment power, including the power to dispose or direct the disposition, with respect to the security through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship, or otherwise, including a right to acquire such power(s) during the 60 days immediately following June 13, 2013. Except as otherwise indicated, the stockholders listed in the table have sole voting and investment powers with respect to the shares indicated.
*The address is c/o Epic Investments LLC, 227-15 North Conduit Ave., Laurelton, NY 11413.
**Less than 1%
***As of June 13, 2013
(1)Includes vested options to purchase 120,000 shares of Common Stock, warrants to purchase 12,434 shares of Common Stock, 794,405 shares of Common Stock and 60,133 shares of Common Stock which is due and owing to Dr. Dash as of March 31, 2013 for Director’s fees earned by Dr. Dash for the quarter then ended, pursuant to the Company’s policy regarding payment of Directors’ fees.
(2)Includes 2,131,399 shares of Common Stock, warrants to purchase up to 1,125,000 shares of Common Stock, options to purchase up to 180,000 shares of Common Stock and 90,200 shares of Common Stock which is due and owing to Mr. Treppel as of March 31, 2013 for Chairman’s fees earned by Mr. Treppel for the quarter then ended, pursuant to the Company’s policy regarding payment of the Chairman’s fee.
(3)Includes 1,600 shares of Series E Preferred Stock convertible into 65,737,420 shares of Common Stock, 9,008,212 shares of Common Stock and warrants to purchase up to 73,181,666 shares of Common Stock held by Epic Investments, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company. Messrs. Nigalaye, Narine and Potti are executive officers and equity owners of Epic Pharma, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and Epic Investments, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company. Epic Pharma, LLC is an equity owner of Epic Investments, LLC. Epic Pharma LLC and Messrs. Nigalaye, Narine and Potti share voting and investment control over, and are indirect beneficial owners of, the shares. The interest of Epic Pharma LLC and Messrs. Nigalaye, Narine and Potti in the shares is limited, and each disclaims beneficial ownership of such shares except to the extent of its pecuniary interest in Epic Investments, LLC. Please note that the number of shares of Common Stock held by Epic Investments, LLC was compiled from Statements of Changes in Beneficial Ownership on Form 4 that were filed by Epic Investments LLC since June of 2009.
In addition to beneficial interests related to Epic Investments, Dr. Nigalaye owns 12,055,183 shares of common stock, warrants to purchase up to 7,757,666 shares of common stock, and 60,133 shares of Common Stock which is due and owing to Dr. Nigalaye as of March 31, 2013 for Director’s fees earned by Dr. Nigalaye for the quarter then ended, pursuant to the Company’s policy regarding payment of Directors’ fees.
In addition to beneficial interests related to Epic Investments, Mr. Narine owns 5,957,622 shares of common stock, warrants to purchase up to 4,757,666 shares of common stock and 60,133 shares of Common Stock which is due and owing to Mr. Narine as of March 31, 2013 for Director’s fees earned by Mr. Narine for the quarter then ended, pursuant to the Company’s policy regarding payment of Directors’ fees.
In addition to beneficial interests related to Epic Investments, Mr. Potti owns 6,227,180 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase up to 5,091,000 shares of common stock.
(4)Includes 757,293 shares of Common Stock and 60,133 shares of Common Stock which is due and owing to Mr. Whitnell as of March 31, 2013 for Director’s fees earned by Mr. Whitnell for the quarter then ended, pursuant to the Company’s policy regarding payment of Directors’ fees.
(5)Includes vested options to purchase 250,000 shares of Common Stock, warrants to purchase 666,667 shares of Common Stock, 1,900,437 shares of Common Stock and 90,200 shares of Common Stock due and owing to Mr. Ward as of March 31, 2013, for salaries earned for the quarter then ended pursuant to the employment agreement between the Company and Mr. Ward dated November 13, 2009. In addition, Mr. Ward has been granted options to purchase 100,000 shares of Common Stock under the Company’s 2004 Equity Incentive Plan which were not vested as of June 13, 2013. These options to purchase 100,000 shares of Common Stock are not included as part of Mr. Ward’s beneficial ownership as they do not vest within 60 days. These 100,000 non-vested options, having an exercise price of $0.12 per share, are scheduled to vest in increments of 50,000 shares each on June 19, 2014 and 2015.
(6)Includes vested options to purchase 490,000 shares of Common Stock, 971,423 shares of Common Stock, and 156,800 shares of Common Stock due and owing to Mr. Dick as of June 13, 2013 for salaries earned for the period beginning on January 1, 2013 through May 24, 2013, the date Mr. Dick stepped down from his positions with the Company.
(7)Includes 1,600 shares of Series E Preferred Stock convertible into 65,737,420 shares of Common Stock, warrants to purchase up to 87,501,099 shares of Common Stock, and vested options to purchase up to 1,040,000 shares of Common Stock, 33,574,974 shares of Common Stock and 577,732 shares of Common Stock which are due and owing as of June 13, 2013, to the Company’s Chairman, Directors and Chief Financial Officer in payment of Chairman’s Fees, Directors Fees or salary, as appropriate for the quarter ended March 31, 2013 for those directors that were active as of June 13, 2013 or for the period beginning on January 1, 2013 and ending May 24, 2013 with regards to Mr. Dick, in accordance with the Company’s policy regarding payment of Chairman’s fees, Director fees or employment contract with the Chief Financial Officer.
(8)Mr. Potti was previously a Director of the Company, resigning in December 2012.
(9)Mr. Dick was the President, Chief Operating Officer and a Director of the Company until May 2013.
ITEM 13CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
Certain Related Person Transactions
Transactions with Epic Pharma LLC and Epic Investments LLC
On March 18, 2009, the Company entered into the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement with Epic Pharma, LLC and Epic Investments, LLC, a subsidiary controlled by Epic Pharma LLC, as disclosed in Item 1. “Business: Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement” in Part I and Item 10. “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance” and in our Current Reports on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on March 23, 2009, May 6, 2009 and June 5, 2009, which disclosures are incorporated herein by reference. Ashok G. Nigalaye, Jeenarine Narine and Ram Potti, each were elected as members of our Board of Directors, effective June 24, 2009, as the three directors that Epic is entitled to designate for appointment to the Board pursuant to the terms of the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement. Messrs. Nigalaye, Narine and Potti are also officers of Epic Pharma, LLC, in the following capacities:
•Mr. Nigalaye, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Epic Pharma, LLC;
•Mr. Narine, President and Chief Operating Officer of Epic Pharma, LLC;
•Mr. Potti, Vice President of Epic Pharma, LLC.
The Strategic Alliance Agreement expired on June 4, 2012.
On December 31, 2012, Mr. Potti resigned as a Director of the Company. His seat on the Board of Directors was not filled.
As part of the operation of the strategic alliance, the Company and Epic identified areas of synergy, including, without limitation, raw materials used by both entities, equipment purchases, contract manufacturing/packaging and various regulatory and operational resources existing at Epic that could be utilized by the Company.
With regards to synergies related to raw materials usage, the strategic alliance allowed the Company to purchase such raw materials from Epic, at the Epic acquisition cost, without markup. In all cases, the acquisition cost of Epic was lower than those costs available to the Company, mainly as a result of efficiencies of scale generated by significantly larger volumes purchased by Epic during the course of their normal operations. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012, an aggregate amount of $71,480 and $15,552, respectively, in such materials was purchased from Epic Pharma LLC. All purchases were at Epic Pharma’s acquisition cost, without markup and evidenced by supporting documents of Epic Pharma LLC’s acquisition cost.
With regards to synergies related to regulatory and operational resources, the strategic alliance allowed the Company to utilize Epic’s substantial resources and technical competencies on an “as needed” basis at a cost equal to Epic’s actual cost for only the resources utilized by the Company. Without such access to Epic’s resources, the Company would have to invest significant amounts in human resources and fixed assets as well as incur substantial costs with third party providers to provide the same resources provided by Epic and necessary for the operations of the Company.
During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012, an aggregate amount of $31,354 and $133,003, respectively, was paid to Epic as reimbursement for costs associated with facility maintenance, engineering and regulatory resources utilized by the Company.
During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012, the Company incurred a total of $362,347 and $275,768, respectively in contract manufacturing and/or packaging costs for the Company’s Phentermine, Hydromorphone, Methadone and Immediate Release Lodrane products.
During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, equipment purchases from Epic totaled $-0- and $52,000, respectively.
Total purchases from Epic by the Company during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 were $465,181 and $476,323, respectively.
Transaction with Jerry Treppel
On June 12, 2012 (the “Effective Date”), we entered into a bridge loan agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) with Jerry Treppel, our Chairman and CEO. Under the terms of the Loan Agreement, we have the right, in our sole discretion, to a line of credit (the “Credit Line”) in the maximum principal amount of up to $500,000 at any one time. By amendment, the maximum principal amount was increased to $1,000,000 in December 2012. Mr. Treppel provided the Credit Line for the purpose of supporting the acceleration of our product development activities. The outstanding amount will be evidenced by a promissory note which shall mature on the earlier of (i) such date as we raise at least $2,000,000 in gross proceeds from the sale of any of our equity securities or (ii) July 31, 2013, at which time the entire unpaid principal balance plus accrued interest thereon shall be due and payable in full. We may prepay any amounts owed without penalty. Any such prepayments shall first be attributable to interest due and owing and then to principal. Interest only shall be payable quarterly on July 1, October 1, January 1 and April 1 of each year. Prior to maturity or the occurrence of an Event of Default as defined in the Loan Agreement, we may borrow, repay, and reborrow under the Credit Line through maturity. Amounts borrowed under the Credit Line will bear interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum. As of March 31, 2013, the principal balance owed under the Credit Line was $600,000 with an additional $13,151 in accrued interest also owed, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Credit Line. For more detailed information, please see the Loan Agreement filed as an exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 13, 2012, and the amendment thereto filed as an exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 10, 2012 which forms 8-K and exhibits are incorporated by reference herein.
Director Independence
All related person transactions are reviewed and, as appropriate, may be approved or ratified by the Board of Directors. If a Director is involved in the transaction, he or she may not participate in any review, approval or ratification of such transaction. Related person transactions are approved by the Board of Directors only if, based on all of the facts and circumstances, they are in, or not inconsistent with, our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders, as the Board of Directors determines in good faith. The Board of Directors takes into account, among other factors it deems appropriate, whether the transaction is on terms generally available to an unaffiliated third-party under the same or similar circumstances and the extent of the related person’s interest in the transaction. The Board of Directors may also impose such conditions as it deems necessary and appropriate on us or the related person in connection with the transaction.
In the case of a transaction presented to the Board of Directors for ratification, the Board of Directors may ratify the transaction or determine whether rescission of the transaction is appropriate.
ITEM 14PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm is Demetrius Berkower LLC (“Demetrius”).
The following table presents fees, including reimbursements for expenses, for professional audit services rendered by Demetrius for the audits of our financial statements and interim reviews of our quarterly financial statements for Fiscal 2013 and Fiscal 2012.
Audit Fees
Represents fees for professional services provided for the audit of our annual financial statements, services that are performed to comply with generally accepted auditing standards, and review of our financial statements included in our quarterly reports and services in connection with statutory and regulatory filings.
Audit-Related Fees
Represents the fees for assurance and related services that were reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review of our financial statements.
The Audit Committee has determined that Demetrius’ rendering of these audit-related services was compatible with maintaining auditor’s independence. The Board of Directors considered Demetrius to be well qualified to serve as our independent public accountants. The Committee also pre-approved the charges for services performed in Fiscal 2013 and 2012.
The Audit Committee pre-approves all auditing services and the terms thereof (which may include providing comfort letters in connection with securities underwriting) and non-audit services (other than non-audit services prohibited under Section 10A(g) of the Exchange Act or the applicable rules of the SEC or the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board) to be provided to us by the independent auditor; provided, however, the pre-approval requirement is waived with respect to the provisions of non-audit services for us if the “de minimus” provisions of Section 10A (i)(1)(B) of the Exchange Act are satisfied. This authority to pre-approve non-audit services may be delegated to one or more members of the Audit Committee, who shall present all decisions to pre-approve an activity to the full Audit Committee at its first meeting following such decision.
PART IV
ITEM 15.EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES.
(a)The following are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
(1)The financial statements and schedules required to be filed by Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and listed in the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements.
(2)The Exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K and listed below in the “Index to Exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K.”
(b)The Exhibits are filed with or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
(c)None
Index to Exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K.
Exhibit
No.
Description
2.1
Agreement and Plan of Merger between Elite Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Elite-Delaware”) and Elite Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a Nevada corporation (“Elite-Nevada”), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 9, 2012.
3.1(a)
Articles of Incorporation of Elite-Nevada, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 9, 2012.
3.1(b)
Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, together with all other amendments thereto, as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, incorporated by reference to (a) Exhibit 4.1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Reg. No. 333-101686), filed with the SEC on December 6, 2002 (the “Form S-4”), (b) Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 28, 2004 and filed with the SEC on July 29, 2004, (c) Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 26, 2008 and filed with the SEC on July 2, 2008, and (d) Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 19, 2008 and filed with the SEC on December 23, 2008.*
3.1(c)
Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights of Series A Preferred Stock, as filed with the Secretary of the State of Delaware, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 6, 2004, and filed with the SEC on October 12, 2004.*
3.1(d)
Certificate of Retirement with the Secretary of the State of the Delaware to retire 516,558 shares of the Series A Preferred Stock, as filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 10, 2006, and filed with the SEC on March 14, 2006.*
3.1(e)
Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights of Series B 8% Convertible Preferred Stock, as filed with the Secretary of the State of Delaware, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 15, 2006, and filed with the SEC on March 16, 2006.*
3.1(f)
Amended Certificate of Designations of Preferences, Rights and Limitations of Series B 8% Convertible Preferred Stock, as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 24, 2007, and filed with the SEC on April 25, 2007.*
3.1(g)
Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights of Series C 8% Convertible Preferred Stock, as filed with the Secretary of the State of Delaware, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 24, 2007, and filed with the SEC on April 25, 2007.*
3.1(h)
Amended Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights of Series C 8% Convertible Preferred Stock, as filed with the Secretary of the State of Delaware, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 24, 2007, and filed with the SEC on April 25, 2007.*
3.1(i)
Amended Certificate of Designations of Preferences, Rights and Limitations of Series B 8% Convertible Preferred Stock, as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 15, 2008, and filed with the SEC on September 16, 2008.*
3.1(j)
Amended Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights of Series C 8% Convertible Preferred Stock, as filed with the Secretary of the State of Delaware, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 15, 2008, and filed with the SEC on September 16, 2008.*
3.1(k)
Amended Certificate of Designations of Preferences, Rights and Limitations of Series D 8% Convertible Preferred Stock, as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 15, 2008, and filed with the SEC on September 16, 2008.*
3.1(l)
Certificate of Designation of Preferences, Rights and Limitations of Series E Convertible Preferred Stock, as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 1, 2009, and filed with the SEC on June 5, 2009.*
3.1(m)
Amended Certificate of Designations of the Series D 8% Convertible Preferred Stock as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on June 29, 2010, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated June 24, 2010 and filed with the SEC on July 1, 2010.*
3.1(n)
Amended Certificate of Designations of the Series E Convertible Preferred Stock as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on June 29, 2010, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated June 24, 2010 and filed with the SEC on July 1, 2010.*
3.1(o)
Certificate of Designations of the Series G Convertible Preferred Stock as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Nevada on April 18, 2013, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 18, 2013 and filed with the SEC on April 22, 2013 .
3.2(a)
By-Laws of Elite-Nevada, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 9, 2012.
3.2(b)
By-Laws of the Company, as amended, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (Reg. No. 333-90633) made effective on February 28, 2000 (the “Form SB-2”).*
4.1
Form of specimen certificate for Common Stock of the Company, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Form SB-2.*
4.2
Form of specimen certificate for Series B 8% Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 15, 2006 and filed with the SEC on March 16, 2006.*
4.3
Form of specimen certificate for Series C 8% Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 24, 2007 and filed with the SEC on April 25, 2007.*
4.4
Form of Warrant to purchase shares of Common Stock issued to purchasers in the private placement which closed on March 15, 2006 (the “Series B Financing”), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 15, 2006 and filed with the SEC on March 16, 2006.*
4.5
Form of Warrant to purchase shares of Common Stock issued to purchasers in the Series B Financing, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 15, 2006 and filed with the SEC on March 16, 2006.*
4.6
Form of Warrant to purchase shares of Common Stock issued to the Placement Agent, in connection with the Series B Financing, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 15, 2006 and filed with the SEC on March 16, 2006.*
4.7
Form of Warrant to purchase 600,000 shares of Common Stock issued to Indigo Ventures, LLC, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated July 12, 2006 and filed with the SEC on July 18, 2006.*
4.8
Form of Warrant to purchase up to 478,698 shares of Common Stock issued to VGS PHARMA, LLC, incorporated by reference as Exhibit 3(a) to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 6, 2006 and filed with the SEC on December 12, 2006.*
4.9
Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for 1,750,000 shares of Common Stock granted to Veerappan Subramanian, incorporated by reference as Exhibit 3(b) to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 6, 2006 and filed with the SEC on December 12, 2006.*
4.10
Form of Warrant to purchase shares of Common Stock issued to purchasers in the private placement which closed on April 24, 2007 (the “Series C Financing”), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 24, 2007 and filed with the SEC on April 25, 2007.*
4.11
Form of Warrant to purchase shares of Common Stock issued to the placement agent in the Series C Financing, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 24, 2007 and filed with the SEC on April 25, 2007.*
4.12
Form of specimen certificate for Series D 8% Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated September 15, 2008 and filed with the SEC on September 16, 2008.*
4.13
Form of Warrant to purchase shares of Common Stock issued to purchasers in the private placement which closed on September 15, 2008 (the “Series D Financing”), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated September 15, 2008 and filed with the SEC on September 16, 2008.*
4.14
Form of Warrant to purchase shares of Common Stock issued to the placement agent in the Series D Financing, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated September 15, 2008 and filed with the SEC on September 16, 2008.*
4.15
Form of specimen certificate for Series E Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated June 1, 2009, and filed with the SEC on June 5, 2009.*
4.16
Warrant to purchase shares of Common Stock issued to Epic Investments, LLC in the initial closing of the Strategic Alliance Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2009, by and among the Company, Epic Pharma, LLC and Epic Investments, LLC, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated June 1, 2009, and filed with the SEC on June 5, 2009.*
4.17
Form of specimen certificate for Series G Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 18, 2013 and filed with the SEC on April 22, 2013.
10.1
2004 Employee Stock Option Plan approved by stockholders on June 22, 2004, incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to the Proxy Statement filed on Schedule 14A with respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on June 22, 2004.
10.2
Form of Confidentiality Agreement (corporate), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Form SB-2.
10.3
Form of Confidentiality Agreement (employee), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Form SB-2.
10.4
Product Development and Commercialization Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2005, between the Company and IntelliPharmaceutics, Corp., incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated June 21, 2005 and originally filed with the SEC on June 27, 2005, as amended on the Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed September 7, 2005, as further amended by the Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed December 7, 2005 (Confidential Treatment granted with respect to portions of the Agreement).
10.5
Agreement, dated December 12, 2005, by and among the Company, Elite Labs, and IntelliPharmaCeutics Corp., incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 12, 2005, and originally filed with the SEC on December 16, 2005, as amended by the Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed March 7, 2006 (Confidential Treatment granted with respect to portions of the Agreement).
10.6
Loan Agreement, dated as of August 15, 2005, between New Jersey Economic Development Authority (“NJEDA”) and the Company, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated August 31, 2005 and filed with the SEC on September 6, 2005.
10.7
Series A Note in the aggregate principal amount of $3,660,000.00 payable to the order of the NJEDA, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated August 31, 2005 and filed with the SEC on September 6, 2005.
10.8
Series B Note in the aggregate principal amount of $495,000.00 payable to the order of the NJEDA, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated August 31, 2005 and filed with the SEC on September 6, 2005.
10.9
Mortgage from the Company to the NJEDA, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated August 31, 2005 and filed with the SEC on September 6, 2005.
10.10
Indenture between NJEDA and the Bank of New York as Trustee, dated as of August 15, 2005, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated August 31, 2005 and filed with the SEC on September 6, 2005.
10.11
Form of Securities Purchase Agreement, between the Registrant and the signatories thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 15, 2006 and filed with the SEC on March 16, 2006.
10.12
Form of Registration Rights Agreement, between the Registrant and signatories thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 15, 2006 and filed with the SEC on March 16, 2006.
10.13
Form of Placement Agent Agreement, between the Registrant and Indigo Securities, LLC, incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 15, 2006, and filed with the SEC on March 16, 2006.
10.14
Financial Advisory Agreement between the Registrant and Indigo Ventures LLC, incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 12, 2006 and filed with the SEC on July 18, 2006.
10.15
Seconded Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between the Registrant and Bernard Berk, incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 and filed with the SEC on November 14, 2006.
10.16
Employment Agreement between the Registrant and Charan Behl, incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 and filed with the SEC on November 14, 2006.
10.17
Employment Agreement between the Registrant and Chris Dick, incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 and filed with the SEC on November 14, 2006.
10.18
Product Collaboration Agreement between the Registrant and ThePharmaNetwork LLC, incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated November 10, 2006 and filed with the SEC on November 15, 2006. (Confidential Treatment granted with respect to portions of the Agreement).
10.19
Strategic Alliance Agreement among the Registrant, VGS Pharma (“VGS”) and Veerappan S. Subramanian (“VS”), incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10(a) to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 6, 2006 and filed with the SEC on December 12, 2006.
10.20
Advisory Agreement, between the Registrant and VS, incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10(b) to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 6, 2006 and filed with the SEC on December 12, 2006.
10.21
Registration Rights Agreement between the Registrant, VGS and VS, incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10(c) to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 6, 2006 and filed with the SEC on December 12, 2006.
10.22
Employment Agreement between Novel Laboratories Inc. (“Novel”) and VS, incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10(d) to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 6, 2006 and filed with the SEC on December 12, 2006.
10.23
Stockholders’ Agreement between Registrant, VGS, VS and Novel, incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10(e) to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 6, 2006 and filed with the SEC on December 12, 2006.
10.24
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, between the Registrant and Charan Behl, incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated February 9, 2007 and filed with the SEC on February 14, 2007.
10.25
Form of Securities Purchase Agreement, between the Registrant and the signatories thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 24, 2007 and filed with the SEC on April 25, 2007.
10.26
Form of Registration Rights Agreement, between the Registrant and the signatories thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 24, 2007 and filed with the SEC on April 25, 2007.
10.27
Form of Placement Agent Agreement, between the Company and Oppenheimer & Company, Inc., incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 24, 2007 and filed with the SEC on April 25, 2007.
10.28
Form of Securities Purchase Agreement, between the Registrant and the signatories thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated July 17, 2007 and filed with the SEC on July 23, 2007.
10.29
Form of Registration Rights Agreement, between the Registrant and the signatories thereto, incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated July 17, 2007 and filed with the SEC on July 23, 2007.
10.30
Consulting Agreement, dated as of July 27, 2007, between the Registrant and Willstar Consultants, Inc., incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ending September 30, 2007 and filed with the SEC on November 14, 2007.
10.31
Consulting Agreement, dated as of September 4, 2007, between the Registrant, Bridge Ventures, Inc. and Saggi Capital, Inc., incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ending September 30, 2007 and filed with the SEC on November 14, 2007.
10.32
Employment Agreement, dated as of January 3, 2008, by and between the Registrant and Dr. Stuart Apfel, incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 3, 2008 and filed with the SEC on January 9, 2008.
10.33
Form of Securities Purchase Agreement, between the Company and the signatories thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated September 15, 2008 and filed with the SEC on September 16, 2008.
10.34
Form of Placement Agent Agreement, between the Company, ROTH Capital Partners, LLC and Boenning & Scattergood, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated September 15, 2008 and filed with the SEC on September 16, 2008.
10.35
Separation Agreement and General Release of Claims, dated as of October 20, 2008, by and between the Company and Stuart Apfel, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated October 15, 2008 and filed with the SEC on October 21, 2008.
10.36
Consulting Agreement, dated as of October 20, 2008, by and between the Company and Parallex Clinical Research, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated October 15, 2008 and filed with the SEC on October 21, 2008.
10.37
Separation Agreement and General Release of Claims, dated as of November 3, 2008, by and between the Company and Charan Behl, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated October 28, 2008 and filed with the SEC on November 3, 2008.
10.38
Consulting Agreement, dated as of November 3, 2008, by and between the Company and Charan Behl, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated October 28, 2008 and filed with the SEC on November 3, 2008.
10.39
Separation Agreement and General Release of Claims, dated as of November 5, 2008, by and between the Company and Bernard J. Berk, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated November 6, 2008 and filed with the SEC on November 6, 2008.
10.40
Amendment to Employment Agreement, dated as of November 10, 2008, by and between the Company and Chris Dick, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2008 and filed with the SEC on November 14, 2008.
10.41
Compensation Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2008, by and between the Company and Jerry I. Treppel, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 1, 2008 and filed with the SEC on December 4, 2008.
10.42
Strategic Alliance Agreement, dated as of March 18, 2009, by and among the Company, Epic Pharma, LLC and Epic Investments, LLC, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 18, 2009 and filed with the SEC on March 23, 2009.
10.43
Amendment to Strategic Alliance Agreement, dated as of April 30, 2009, by and among the Company, Epic Pharma, LLC and Epic Investments, LLC, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 30, 2009 and filed with the SEC on May 6, 2009.
10.44
Second Amendment to Strategic Alliance Agreement, dated as of June 1, 2009, by and among the Company, Epic Pharma, LLC and Epic Investments, LLC, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated June 1, 2009, and filed with the SEC on June 5, 2009.
10.45
Employment Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2009, by and between the Company and Carter J. Ward, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 1, 2009 and filed with the SEC on July 8, 2009.
10.46
Third Amendment to Strategic Alliance Agreement, dated as of Aug 18, 2009, by and among the Company, Epic Pharma LLC and Epic Investments, LLC, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for the period ending June 30, 2009 and filed with the SEC on August 19, 2009.
10.47
Employment Agreement, dated as of November 13, 2009, by and between the Company and Chris Dick, , incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for the period ending September 30, 2009 and filed with the SEC on November 16, 2009.
10.48
Employment Agreement, dated as of November 13, 2009, by and between the Company and Carter J. Ward, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for the period ending September 30, 2009 and filed with the SEC on November 16, 2009.
10.49
Elite Pharmaceuticals Inc. 2009 Equity Incentive Plan, as adopted November 24, 2009, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registration Statement Under the Securities Act of 1933 on Form S-8, dated December 18, 2009 and filed with the SEC on December 22, 2009.
10.50
Stipulation of Settlement and Release, dated as of June 25, 2010, by and among the Company, Midsummer Investment, Ltd., Bushido Capital Master Fund, LP, BCMF Trustees, LLC, Epic Pharma, LLC and Epic Investments, LLC, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated June 25, 2010 and filed with the SEC on July 1, 2010
10.51
Amendment Agreement, dated as of June 25, 2010, by and among the Company, and the investors signatory thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated June 25, 2010 and filed with the SEC on July 1, 2010
10.52
Amendment Agreement, dated as of June 2010, by and among the Company, Epic Pharma, LLC and Epic Investments, LLC, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated June 25, 2010 and filed with the SEC on July 1, 2010
10.53
Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of May 18, 2010, by and among Mikah Pharma LLC and the Company, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for the period ended September 30, 2010 and filed with the SEC on November 15, 2010.
10.54
Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of August 27, 2010, by and among Mikah Pharma LLC and the Company, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for the period ended September 30, 2010 and filed with the SEC on November 15, 2010 (Confidential Treatment granted with respect to portions of the Agreement).
10.55
Master Development and License Agreement, dated as of August 27, 2010, by and among Mikah Pharma LLC and the Company incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for the period ended September 30, 2010 and filed with the SEC on November 15, 2010 (Confidential Treatment granted with respect to portions of the Agreement).
10.56
Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2010, by and among Epic Pharma LLC and the Company, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for the period ended September 30, 2010 and filed with the SEC on November 15, 2010 (Confidential Treatment granted with respect to portions of the Agreement).
10.57
License Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2010, by and among Precision Dose Inc. and the Company, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for the period ended September 30, 2010 and filed with the SEC on November 15, 2010 (Confidential Treatment granted with respect to portions of the Agreement).
10.58
Manufacturing and Supply Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2010, by and among Precision Dose Inc. and the Company, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for the period ended September 30, 2010 and filed with the SEC on November 15, 2010 (Confidential Treatment granted with respect to portions of the Agreement).
10.59
Product Development Agreement between the Company and Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. dated as of January 4, 2011, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated January 4, 2011 and filed with the SEC on January 10, 2011 (Confidential Treatment granted with respect to portions of the Agreement).
10.60
Settlement Agreement between the Company and ThePharmaNetwork, LLC, dated as of March 11, 2011, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 11, 2011 and filed with the SEC on March 17, 2011.
10.61
Manufacturing & Supply Agreement between the Company and Mikah Pharma LLC, dated as of June 1, 2011, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.70 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the period ended March, 31, 2011 and filed with the SEC on June 29, 2011 (Confidential Treatment granted with respect to portions of the Agreement).
10.62
Manufacturing & Supply Agreement between the Company and ThePharmaNetwork, LLC, dated as of June 23, 2011, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.71 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the period ended March, 31, 2011 and filed with the SEC on June 29, 2011 (Confidential Treatment granted with respect to portions of the Agreement).
10.63
Amendment, dated as of November 1, 2011, to the Master Development and License Agreement, dated as of August 27, 2010, by and amount Mikah Pharma LLC and the Company (Confidential Treatment granted with respect to portions of the Agreement), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for three and nine months ended December 31, 2011.
10.64
Settlement Agreement between the Company and ThePharmaNetwork, LLC, dated as of March 11, 2011, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 11, 2011 and filed with the SEC on March 17, 2011.
10.65
Securities Purchase Agreement with Socius dated December 30, 2011, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 5, 2012.
10.66
Amendment to Agreement with Socius dated February 28, 2012, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed with the SEC February 29, 2012.
10.67
Manufacturing & Supply Agreement between the Company and Mikah Pharma LLC, dated as of June 1, 2011, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.70 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the period ended March, 31, 2011 and filed with the SEC on June 29, 2011 (Confidential Treatment granted with respect to portions of the Agreement).
10.68
Manufacturing & Supply Agreement between the Company and ThePharmaNetwork, LLC, dated as of June 23, 2011, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.71 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the period ended March, 31, 2011 and filed with the SEC on June 29, 2011 (Confidential Treatment granted with respect to portions of the Agreement).
10.69
Amendment, dated as of November 1, 2011, to the Master Development and License Agreement, dated as of August 27, 2010, by and amount Mikah Pharma LLC and the Company (Confidential Treatment granted with respect to portions of the Agreement), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for three and nine months ended December 31, 2011.
10.70
Treppel $500,000 Bridge Loan Agreement dated June 12, 2012, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 13, 2012.
10.71
December 5, 2012 amendment to the Treppel Bridge Loan Agreement incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 10, 2012.
10.72
Development And License Agreement between the Company and a Hong Kong-based client dated March 16, 2012 (Confidential Treatment granted with respect to portions of the Agreement).
10.73
Letter Agreement between the Company and ThePharmaNetwork LLC, dated September 21, 2012 (Confidential Treatment granted with respect to portions of the Agreement).
10.74
Purchase Agreement between the Company and Lincoln Park Capital LLC dated April 19, 2013 , incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 18, 2013 and filed with the SEC on April 22, 2013.
10.75
Registration Rights Agreement between the Company and Lincoln Park Capital LLC dated April 19, 2013 , incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 18, 2013 and filed with the SEC on April 22, 2013.
Subsidiaries of the Company.**
Consent of Demetrius & Company LLC, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm**
101***
The following materials from Elite Pharmaceuticals’ Annual Report on Form 10-K, related to the audited financial statements as and for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, formatted in eXtensible Business Reporting Language (“XBRL”): (i) the Consolidated Statements of Income; (ii) the Consolidated Balance Sheets; (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows; and (iv) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.**
31.1
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002**
31.2
Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002**
32.1****
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002**
32.2****
Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002**
*	On January 5, 2011, the Company changed its domicile from Delaware to Nevada. All corporate documents from Delaware have been superseded by Nevada corporate documents filed or incorporated by reference herein. All outstanding Delaware securities certificates are now outstanding Nevada securities certificates.
** Filed herewith.
*** Pursuant to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, these interactive data files are deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934 and otherwise are not subject to liability.
**** These exhibits are furnished with this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not incorporated by reference in any filing of Elite Pharmaceuticals, Inc. under the Securities Act or the Securities Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filings.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signature
Title
Date
/s/ Jerry Treppel
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
June 21, 2013
/s/ Carter J. Ward
Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, Secretary
June 21, 2013
/s/ Barry Dash
Director
June 21, 2013
/s/ Jeenarine Narine
Director
June 21, 2013
/s/ Ashok Nigalaye
Director
June 21, 2013
/s/ Jeffrey Whitnell
Director
June 21, 2013
ELITE PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED MARCH 31, 2013 AND
CONTENTS
REPORTS OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To The Board of Directors and
Shareholders of Elite Pharmaceuticals, Inc. & Subsidiaries
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Elite Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Subsidiaries (“the Company”) as of March 31, 2013 and 2012 and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' deficit and cash flows for each of the years in the two-year period ended March 31, 2013. The Company’s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Elite Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of March 31, 2013 and 2012 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the two year period ended March 31, 2013 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that Elite Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Subsidiaries will continue as a going concern. As shown in the consolidated financial statements, the Company has experienced significant losses resulting in a working capital deficiency and shareholders’ deficit. These conditions raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. Management’s plans in regard to these matters are more fully described in Note 2. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties.
/s/Demetrius Berkower LLC
Wayne, New Jersey
June 21, 2013
ELITE PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
March 31, 2013 and 2012
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
ELITE PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
March 31, 2013 and 2012
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
ELITE PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
ELITE PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS (DEFICIT) EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2012
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
ELITE PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS (DEFICIT) EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2013
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
ELITE PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The accompanying notes are integral part of the consolidated financial statements
NOTE 1SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
BASIS OF PRESENTATION
The accompanying audited financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”)
PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Elite Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, (collectively the “Company”) including its wholly-owned subsidiary, Elite Laboratories, Inc. (“Elite Labs”) for the years ended March 31, 2013 (“Fiscal 2013”) and 2012 (“Fiscal 2012”). Our Company consolidates all entities that we control by ownership of a majority voting interest. As of March 31, 2013, the financial statements of all wholly-owned entities are consolidated and all significant intercompany accounts are eliminated upon consolidation.
NATURE OF BUSINESS
Elite Pharmaceuticals, Inc. was incorporated on October 1, 1997 under the laws of the State of Delaware, and its wholly-owned subsidiary Elite Laboratories, Inc. was incorporated on August 23, 1990 under the laws of the State of Delaware. On January 5, 2012, Elite Pharmaceuticals was reincorporated under the laws of the State of Nevada. Elite Labs engages primarily in researching, developing and licensing proprietary controlled-release drug delivery systems and products. The Company is also equipped to manufacture controlled-release products on a contract basis for third parties and itself if and when the products are approved; however the Company has concentrated on developing orally administered controlled-release products. These products include drugs that cover therapeutic areas for pain, allergy and infection. The Company also engages in research and development activities for the purpose of obtaining Food and Drug Administration approval, and, thereafter, commercially exploiting generic and new controlled-release pharmaceutical products. The Company also engages in contract research and development on behalf of other pharmaceutical companies.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
The Company considers all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on deposit with banks and money market instruments. The Company places its cash and cash equivalents with high-quality, U.S. financial institutions and, to date has not experienced losses on any of its balances.
INVENTORIES
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or market (net realizable value).
LONG-LIVED ASSETS
The Company periodically evaluates the fair value of long-lived assets, which include property and equipment and intangibles, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Such conditions may include an economic downturn or a change in the assessment of future operations. A charge for impairment is recognized whenever the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value. Management has determined that no impairment of long-lived assets has occurred.
Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is provided on the straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of the respective assets which range from five to forty years. Major repairs or improvements are capitalized. Minor replacements and maintenance and repairs which do not improve or extend asset lives are expensed currently.
Upon retirement or other disposition of assets, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognized in income.
Costs incurred to acquire intangible assets such as for the application of patents and trademarks are capitalized and amortized on the straight-line method, based on their estimated useful lives ranging from five to fifteen years, commencing upon approval of the patent and trademarks. Such costs are charged to expense if the patent or trademark is unsuccessful.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Research and development expenditures are charged to expense as incurred.
CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK
The Company maintains cash balances, which, at times, may exceed the amounts insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Uninsured balances at March 31, 2013 are $369,023. Management does not believe that there is any significant risk of losses.
The Company in the normal course of business extends credit to its customers based on contract terms and performs ongoing credit evaluations. An allowance for doubtful accounts due to uncertainty of collection is established based on historical collection experience. Amounts are written off when payment is not received after exhaustive collection efforts. During Fiscal 2013 and Fiscal 2012 the Company generated all its revenues from six companies. The termination of the contracts with either of such four companies will result in the loss of a significant amount of revenues currently being earned.
USE OF ESTIMATES
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant estimates made by management include, but are not limited to, the recognition of revenue, the amount of the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable and the fair value of intangible assets, stock-based awards and derivatives.
INCOME TAXES
The Company uses the liability method for reporting income taxes, under which current and deferred tax liabilities and assets are recorded in accordance with enacted tax laws and rates. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Under the liability method, the amounts of deferred tax liabilities and assets at the end of each period are determined using the tax rate expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. Further tax benefits are recognized when it is more likely than not, that such benefits will be realized. Valuation allowances are provided to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount considered likely to be realized.
GAAP prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for how a company should recognize, measure, present, and disclose in its financial statements uncertain tax positions that the company has taken or expects to take on a tax return. GAAP requires that the financial statements reflect expected future tax consequences of such positions presuming the taxing authorities’ full knowledge of the position and all relevant facts, but without considering time values. No adjustments related to uncertain tax positions were recognized during Fiscal 2013 and Fiscal 2012.
The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions as a reduction of the income tax benefit. No interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions were accrued as of March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012.
The Company operates in multiple tax jurisdictions within the United States of America. Although we do not believe that we are currently under examination in any of our major tax jurisdictions, we remain subject to examination in all of our tax jurisdiction until the applicable statutes of limitation expire. As of March 31, 2013, a summary of the tax years that remain subject to examination in our major tax jurisdictions are: United States - Federal, 2009 and forward, and State, 2005 and forward. The Company did not record unrecognized tax positions for the years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012.
EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
Basic earnings per common share is calculated by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during each period presented. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing earnings by the weighted average number of shares and common stock equivalents. The Company’s common stock equivalents consist of options, warrants and convertible securities.
REVENUE RECOGNITION
Revenues earned under manufacturing agreements with other pharmaceutical companies are recognized on the date of shipment of the product, when title for the goods is transferred, and for which the price is agreed to and it has been determined that collectability is reasonably assured.
Revenues derived from royalties and profit splits are recognized when such are reasonably estimable and collectible. Revenues from royalties and profit splits which cannot be reasonably estimated are recognized when the payment is received.
Revenues derived from providing research and development services under contracts with other pharmaceutical companies are recognized when earned. These contracts provide for non-refundable upfront and milestone payments. Because no discrete earnings event has occurred when the upfront payment is received, that amount is deferred until the achievement of a defined milestone. Each nonrefundable milestone payment is recognized as revenue when the performance criteria for that milestone have been met. Under each contract, the milestones are defined, substantive effort is required to achieve the milestone, the amount of the non-refundable milestone payment is reasonable, commensurate with the effort expended, and achievement of the milestone is reasonably assured.
Revenues earned by licensing certain pharmaceutical products developed by the Company are recognized at the beginning of a license term when the Company’s customer has legal right to the use of the product. Revenues are recognized on licensing income on a straight line basis over the life of the licensing agreement.
TREASURY STOCK
The Company records common shares purchased and held in treasury at cost.
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The carrying amounts of current assets and liabilities approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these instruments. The carrying amounts of noncurrent assets are reasonable estimates of their fair values based on management’s evaluation of future cash flows. The long-term liabilities are carried at amounts that approximate fair value based on borrowing rates available to the Company for obligations with similar terms, degrees of risk and remaining maturities.
STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
The Company accounts for all stock-based payments and awards under the fair value based method. Stock-based payments to non-employees are measured at the fair value of the consideration received, or the fair value of the equity instruments issued, or liabilities incurred, whichever is more reliably measurable. The fair value of stock-based payments to non-employees is periodically re-measured until the counterparty performance is complete, and any change therein is recognized over the vesting period of the award and in the same manner as if the Company had paid cash instead of paying with or using equity based instruments on an accelerated basis. The cost of the stock-based payments to nonemployees that are fully vested and non-forfeitable as at the grant date is measured and recognized at that date, unless there is a contractual term for services in which case such compensation would be amortized over the contractual term.
The Company accounts for the granting of share purchase options to employees using the fair value method whereby all awards to employees will be recorded at fair value on the date of the grant. Share based awards granted to employees with a performance condition are measured based on the probable outcome of that performance condition during the requisite service period. Such an award with a performance condition is accrued if it is probable that a performance condition will be achieved. Compensation costs for stock-based payments to employees that do not include performance conditions are recognized on a straight-line basis. The fair value of all share purchase options is expensed over their vesting period with a corresponding increase to additional capital surplus. Upon exercise of share purchase options, the consideration paid by the option holder, together with the amount previously recognized in additional capital surplus, is recorded as an increase to share capital
The Company uses the Black-Scholes option valuation model to calculate the fair value of share purchase options at the date of the grant. Option pricing models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the expected price volatility. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate.
The compensation expense recognized for the years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 was $45,866 and $24,453, respectively.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
The Company adopted Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, for financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
ASC 820 discusses valuation techniques, such as the market approach (comparable market prices), the income approach (present value of future income or cash flow) and the cost approach (cost to replace the service capacity of an asset or replacement cost). The Company utilizes the market approach. The statement utilizes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three broad levels. The following is a brief description of those three levels:
Level 1:Observable inputs such as quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2:Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. These include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets and quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active.
Level 3:Unobservable inputs that reflect the reporting entity’s own assumptions.
RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
The Company believes that all recently issued accounting pronouncements and other authoritative guidance for which the effective date is in the future either will not have an impact on its accounting or reporting or that such impact will not be material to its financial statements.
NOTE 2MANAGEMENT’S LIQUIDITY PLANS
The Company reported a net profits of approximately $1.5 million for Fiscal 2013 and a net loss of approximately $15.1 million for Fiscal 2012. At March 31, 2013, the Company had a working capital deficiency of approximately $2.8 million and an accumulated deficit of approximately $128.6 million, consolidated assets of approximately $11.1 million, and negative stockholders’ equity of approximately $8.8 million. The Company has not generated any significant operating profits to date. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, the Company raised $437,500 of net proceeds from the sale of Series E Preferred Stock and $564,500 from the exercise of cash warrants.
On June 12, 2012, Elite entered into a bridge loan agreement, as amended on December 5, 2012, (the “Treppel Credit Line Agreement”) with Jerry Treppel, the Company’s Chairman and CEO. Under the terms of the Treppel Credit Line Agreement, Elite has the right, in its sole discretion to a line of credit (the “Treppel Credit Line”) in the maximum principal amount of up to $1,000,000, at any one time. Mr. Treppel provided the Treppel Credit Line for the purpose of supporting the acceleration of Elite’s product development activities. The outstanding amount is evidenced by a promissory note which shall mature on the earlier of (i) such date as Elite raises at least two million dollars in gross proceeds from the sale of any of its equity securities or (ii) July 31, 2013, at which time the entire unpaid principal balance, plus accrued interest thereon shall be due and payable in full. Elite may prepay any amounts owed without penalty. Any such prepayments shall first be due and owing and then to principal. Interest only shall be payable quarterly on July 1, October 1, January 1 and April 1 of each year. Prior to maturity or the occurrence of an Event of Default as defined in the Treppel Credit Line Agreement, the Company may borrow, repay and reborrow under the Treppel Credit Line through maturity. Amounts borrowed under the Treppel Credit Line bear interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum. For more detailed information, please refer to the Current Reports on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 13, 2012 and December 10,2012, with such filings being herein incorporated by reference.
As of the March 31, 2013, the principal balance of the Treppel Credit Line was $600,000.
On April 19, 2013, subsequent to the end of Fiscal 2013, the Company entered into a purchase agreement (the “LPC Purchase Agreement”), together with a registration rights agreement (the “LPC Registration Rights Agreement”), with Lincoln Park Capital Fund, LLC (“LPC”).
Under the terms and subject to the conditions of the LPC Agreement, the Company has the right to sell to and LPC is obligated to purchase up to $10 million in shares of the Company’s Common Stock, subject to certain limitations, from time to time, over the 36 month period commencing on May 9, 2013, the date that the registration statement, which the Company agreed to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) pursuant to the LPC Registration Rights Agreement, was declared effective by the SEC. The Company may direct LPC, at its sole discretion and subject to certain conditions, to purchase stock in amounts of up to $80,000 on any single business day, so long as at least two business days have passed since the most recent purchase, increasing to up to $500,000 per purchase, depending upon the closing sale price of the Common Stock. The purchase price of the shares of Common Stock related to the future funding will be based on the prevailing market prices of such shares at the time of sales (or over a period of up to 12 business days leading up to such time), but in no event will shares be sold to LPC on a day the Common Stock closing price is less than the floor price of $0.07 per share, subject to adjustment. The Company’s sales of shares of Common Stock to LPC under the LPC Purchase Agreement are limited to no more than the number of shares that would result in the beneficial ownership by LPC and its affiliates, at any single point in time, of more than 9.99% of the then outstanding shares of Common Stock.
A Current Report on Form 8-K was filed with the SEC on April 22, 2013 with regards to the LPC Purchase Agreement and LPC Registration Rights Agreement with such filing being herein incorporated by reference. A Securities Registration Statement on Form S-1 was filed with the SEC on April 25, 2013, with such filing being herein incorporated by reference. The registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on May 9, 2013, with such filings being herein incorporated by reference.
The Company’s strategy is to continue to be engaged in the development and manufacturing of oral controlled-release products. It will continue to develop generic versions of controlled-release drug products with high barriers to entry and assist partner companies in the life cycle management of products to improve off-patent drug products. The Company has four products currently being sold commercially. In addition, the Company has a generic product which was purchased and for which the Company is in the process of transferring the manufacture of such product to its facility in Northvale, New Jersey, and a pipeline of products under development.
As of March 31, 2013, the Company’s principal source of liquidity was approximately $0.4 million of cash and cash equivalents. The Company may also receive funds through the exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants and, subsequent to March 31, 2013, entered into the LPC Purchase Agreement and LPC Registration Rights Agreement, which could provide up to $10 million from the sale shares of the Company’s Common Stock to LPC. The Company also is exploring raising additional funds through the sale of its equity or debt securities or otherwise. However, there can be no assurance of the exercise of any outstanding options or warrants, the sale of shares of Common Stock pursuant to the LPC Purchase Agreement, the raising of funds pursuant to any new funding arrangements, or that any cash received from such sources will be material to contribute sufficient amounts to continue operating activities. Even if the Company were to receive the amounts enumerated in the LPC Purchase Agreement or from the exercise of outstanding options and warrants, there can be no assurances that the Company will not be required to seek additional capital in the future and that the Company will be able to obtain such additional capital on favorable terms, if at all.
As a result there is no assurance that the Company’s business strategy will be successfully implemented, and with the Company’s existing working capital levels, there can be no assurance that the Company will continue as a going concern.
NOTE 3INVENTORIES
Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost or market. Inventories at March 31, 2013 and 2012 consist of the following:
The Inventory Valuation Reserve as of March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012, consists of raw materials with an aggregate cost of $93,338 being expired materials with no commercial value
NOTE 4 -PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
Property and equipment at March 31, 2013 and 2012 consists of the following:
Depreciation and amortization expense amounted to $423,340 and $484,156 for the years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
NOTE 5 -INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Costs to acquire intangible assets, such as asset purchases of Abbreviated New Drug Applications (“ANDA’s”) which are approved by the FDA or costs incurred in the application of patents are capitalized and amortized on the straight-line method, based on their estimated useful lives ranging from five to fifteen years, commencing upon approval of the patent or site transfers required for commercialization of an acquired ANDA. Such costs are charged to expense if the patent application or ANDA site transfer is unsuccessful.
As of March 31, 2013 and 2012, the following costs were recorded as intangible assets on the Company’s balance sheet:
The costs incurred in patent applications totaling $51,578 and $45,292 for Fiscal 2013 and Fiscal 2012, respectively, were all related to our abuse resistant and extended release opioid product lines. The Company is continuing its efforts to achieve approval of such patents. Additional costs incurred in relation to such patent applications will be capitalized as intangible assets, with amortization of such costs to commence upon approval of the patents.
On May 22, 2012, the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”) issued U.S. Patent No. 8,182,836, entitled “Abuse-Resistant Oral Dosage Forms and Method of Use Thereof. A Current Report on Form 8-K was filed with the SEC on May 22, 2012, with such filing being herein incorporated by reference.
On April 23, 2013, the USPTO issued Patent No. 8,425,933 entitled “Abuse-Resistant Oral Dosage Forms and Method of Use Thereof”. A Current Report on Form 8-K was filed with the SEC on April 23, 2013, with such filing being herein incorporated by reference.
The ANDA acquisition costs of $450,000 recorded as of the beginning of Fiscal 2012 and included as a part of intangible assets as of March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012, are related to our acquisition of the ANDA for Phentermine 37.5mg tablets.
NOTE 6INVESTMENT IN NOVEL LABORATORIES INC.
At the end of 2006, Elite entered into a joint venture with VGS Pharma, LLC (“VGS”) and created Novel Laboratories, Inc. (“Novel”), a privately-held company specializing in pharmaceutical research, development, manufacturing, licensing, acquisition and marketing of specialty generic pharmaceuticals. Novel's business strategy is to focus on its core strength in identifying and timely executing niche business opportunities in the generic pharmaceutical area. Elite’s ownership interest in Novel’s Class A Voting Common Stock of Novel is approximately 10% of the outstanding shares of Class A Voting Common Stock of Novel. As of October 1, 2007, Elite deconsolidated its financial statements from Novel and the investment in Novel is accounted for under the cost method of accounting.
As of June 2013, the US-FDA website lists 19 products approved in the name of Novel and an additional 8 products approved in the name of the Novel’s marketing arm, Gavis Pharmaceuticals (“Gavis”). Market data also list three additional products being marketed by Gavis. There are accordingly a total of 30 products currently identified as being approved/marketed by Novel and Gavis, with such total representing an increase of 4 products as compared to a comparable point in the prior year.
Furthermore, Novel has provided to the Company, copies of its prior year tax returns and management prepared forecasts showing growing revenues.
We also know from public information that Perrigo Company acquired rights in 2010 for an undisclosed amount to an additional Novel ANDA approved in 2010 for the product HalfLytely®. Novel believes this is a first to file ANDA. Perrigo expects to be in a position to launch a generic version of this product later this year and they expect to have 180 days of generic exclusivity. Novel will manufacture the product exclusively for Perrigo. Annual sales for the branded product were approximately $80 million according to Wolters Kluwer.
In accordance with GAAP, the company records an impairment write-down to such investments when the cost of the investment exceeds its fair value and when the decline in value is determined to be other-than temporary. Indicators of an other-than-temporary decline in value include, without limitation, the following:
·A significant deterioration in the earnings performance, credit rating, asset quality, or business prospects of the investee
·A significant adverse change in the regulatory, economic, or technological environment of the investee
·A significant adverse change in the general market condition of either the geographic area or the industry in which the investee operates
·A bona fide offer to purchase (whether solicited or unsolicited), an offer by the investee to sell, or a completed auction process for the same or similar security for an amount less than the cost of the investment
·Factors that raise significant concerns about the investee's ability to continue as a going concern, such as negative cash flows from operations, working capital deficiencies, or noncompliance with statutory capital requirements or debt covenants.
A review and assessment of all documents available, public announcements by Novel and communications with the management of Novel does not indicate the existence of impairment indicators. Accordingly, the Company determined that no impairment is required in the valuation of its investment in Novel as of March 31, 2013. The valuation of the Company’s investment in Novel remains at $3,329,322, an amount equal to the valuation as of March 31, 2012 with no impairment write downs.
NOTE 7 -NJEDA BONDS
On August 31, 2005, the Company successfully completed a refinancing of a prior 1999 bond issue through the issuance of new tax-exempt bonds (the “Bonds”) via the issuance of the following:
The net proceeds, after payment of issuance costs, were used (i) to redeem the outstanding tax-exempt Bonds originally issued by the Authority on September 2, 1999, (ii) refinance other equipment financing and (iii) for the purchase of certain equipment to be used in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products. As of March 31, 2013, all of the proceeds were utilized by the Company for such stated purposes.
Interest is payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 of each year. The Bonds are collateralized by a first lien on the Company’s facility and equipment acquired with the proceeds of the original and refinanced Bonds. The related Indenture requires the maintenance of a Debt Service Reserve Fund as follows:
The Debt Service Reserve is maintained in restricted cash accounts that are classified in Other Assets.
Bond issue costs were paid from the bond proceeds and are being amortized over the life of the bonds. These costs and amortization activity are summarized as follows:
The NJEDA Bonds require the Company to make an annual principal payment on September 1st of varying amounts as specified in the loan documents and semi-annual interest payments on March 1st and September 1st, equal to interest due on the outstanding principal at the applicable rate for the semi-annual period just ended.
Due to the Company not having sufficient funds, the following withdrawals were made from the debt service reserve, with the funds being used to make interest payments due to the holders of the NJEDA Bonds:
Due to the Company not having sufficient funds, a the following withdrawal was made from the debt service reserve, with the funds being used to make a principal payment due to the holders of the NJEDA Bonds:
Pursuant to the terms of the NJEDA Bonds, the Company is required to replenish any amounts withdrawn from the debt service reserve and used to make principal or interest payments in six monthly installments, each being equal to one-sixth of the amount withdrawn and with the first installment due on the 15th of the month in which the withdrawal from debt service reserve occurred and the remaining five monthly payments being due on the 15th of the five immediately subsequent months. The Company has, to date, made all payments required in relation to the withdrawals made from the debt service reserve in relation to the Restricted Cash Interest Payments and the Restricted Cash Principal Payment.
In addition, the Company did not have sufficient funds available to make the principal payments due on September 1, 2010, September 1, 2011 and September 1, 2012. These principal payments are summarized as follows:
(1)The Company request to withdraw funds from the debt service reserve to pay the amount due on September 1, 2010 was denied by the Trustee and accordingly, the principal payment due on such date was not made.
(2)The principal payment due on September 1, 2011, included the amount due and September 1, 2010 and not paid. There were not sufficient funds available in the debt service reserve and the principal payment due on September 1, 2011 was not made.
(3)The principal payment due on September 1, 2012, included the amount due and September 1, 2011 and not paid. There were not sufficient funds available in the debt service reserve and the principal payment due on September 1, 2012 was not made.
The Company has received Notices of Default from the Trustee of the NJEDA Bonds in relation to the withdrawals from the debt service reserve and non-payment of principal amounts due on September 1, 2010, 2011 and 2012. Resolution of the Company’s default under the NJED Bonds will have a significant effect on our ability to operate in the future.
Due to issuance of a Notice of Default being received from the Trustee of the NJEDA Bonds, and until the event of default is waived or rescinded, the Company has classified the entire principal balance due on the NJEDA Bonds, as a current liability.
Bond financing consisting of the following, as of March 31,
Maturities of Bonds for the next five years are as follows:
NOTE 8 -LOANS PAYABLE AND LONG TERM DEBT
Loans payable and long term debt consisted of the following:
NOTE 9 -LEASES OF RENTAL PROPERTIES
The following leases for rental properties were operative during the year ended March 31, 2013:
* Minimum lease payments are exclusive of additional expenses related to certain expenses incurred in the operation and maintenance of the premises, including, without limitation, real estate taxes and common area charges which may be due under the terms and conditions of the lease, but which are not quantifiable at the time of filing of this annual report on Form 10-K
Rent expense related to the operating lease at 135 Ludlow was recorded using the straight line method and summarized as follows:
NOTE 10 -LEASE OF 135 LUDLOW AVENUE
The Company entered into a lease for a portion of a one-story warehouse, located at 135 Ludlow Avenue, Northvale, New Jersey, consisting of approximately 15,000 square feet of floor space. The lease term began on July 1, 2010 and is classified as an operating lease.
The lease includes an initial term of 5 years and 6 months and the Company has the option to renew the lease for two additional 5 year terms. The property related to this lease will be used for the storage of pharmaceutical finished goods, raw materials, equipment and documents as well as pharmaceutical manufacturing, packaging and distribution activities.
This property required significant leasehold improvements and qualification as a prerequisite to achieving suitability for such intended future use and in January 2013, the Company began shipping commercial product that was manufactured and packaged at the 135 Ludlow Avenue facility.
Please refer to Note 9 of these financial statements for details on minimum lease payments, rent expense and deferred rent liabilities.
NOTE 11 -LEASE TERMINATION COSTS - 135 LUDLOW AVENUE
The lease for the property located at 135 Ludlow Avenue, Northvale NJ, includes a requirement that, at termination, the Company return the property to its condition at the inception of the lease, with normal wear and tear excepted. Such requirement accordingly represents an unconditional obligation associated with the retirement of a long-lived asset and subject to ASC 410 of the Codification. The Company estimates such costs would amount to $50,000, at lease termination, and pursuant to ASC 410 has recorded a liability and offsetting asset equal to the present value, at lease inception, of such obligation. This liability is accreted over the term of the lease (including extensions), using the interest method.
NOTE 12 -DEFERRED REVENUES
Deferred revenues in the aggregate amount of $165,556, consisting of a current component of $13,333 and a long term component of $152,223 represents the unamortized amount of a $200,000 advance payment received for a licensing agreement with a fifteen year term beginning in September 2010 and ending in August 2025. The advance payment was recorded as deferred revenue when received and is earned, on a straight line basis over the fifteen year life of the license. The current component is equal to the amount of revenue to be earned during the 12 month period immediately subsequent to the balance date and the long term component is equal to the amount of revenue to be earned thereafter.
NOTE 13 -RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION - BORROWING AGAINST TREPPEL CREDIT LINE
Activity on the Treppel Credit Line Agreement during Fiscal 2013 and Fiscal 2012 is summarized as follows:
For further details on the Treppel Credit Line, please refer to Note 2 of these financial statements as well as Current Reports on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 13, 2012 and December 10, 2012.
NOTE 14 -PREFERRED SHARE DERIVATIVE INTEREST PAYABLE
Preferred share derivative interest payable as of March 31, 2013 consisted of $27,500 in derivative interest accrued as of March 31, 2013. The full amount of derivative interest payable as of March 31, 2013 was paid via the issuance of 358,663 shares of Common Stock, in lieu of cash, in April 2013.
Preferred share derivative interest payable as of March 31, 2012 consisted of $70,965 in derivative interest accrued as of March 31, 2012. The full amount of derivative interest payable as of March 31, 2012 was paid via the issuance of 802,789 shares of Common Stock, in lieu of cash, in April 2012.
NOTE 15 -DERIVATIVE LIABILITIES - PREFERRED SHARES
Accounting Standard Codification “ASC” 815 - Derivatives and Hedging, which provides guidance on determining what types of instruments or embedded features in an instrument issued by a reporting entity can be considered indexed to its own stock for the purpose of evaluating the first criteria of the scope exception in the pronouncement on accounting for derivatives. These requirements can affect the accounting for warrants and convertible preferred instruments issued by the Company. As the conversion features within, and the detachable warrants issued with the Company’s Series B, Series C, and Series E Preferred Stock, do not have fixed settlement provisions because their conversion and exercise prices may be lowered if the Company issues securities at lower prices in the future, we have concluded that the instruments are not indexed to the Company’s stock and are to be treated as derivative liabilities.
The Preferred Stock Derivative Liabilities are measured at fair market value, using the market approach and a level 1 fair value hierarchy, on a recurring basis as of March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012, in accordance with the valuation techniques discussed in ASC 820.
The change of $561,684 in value of the preferred stock derivative liability occurring during Fiscal 2013 is included in the amount reported in the “Other Income/(Expense)” section of the statement of operations. Increases in value are reported as other expenses and decreases in value are reported as other income. During Fiscal 2013 there was a net increase in the value of the preferred stock derivative liability, so therefore the amount shown above represents another expense item on the income statement.
The change of $11,227,957 in value of the preferred stock derivative liability occurring during the 2012 Fiscal Year is included in the amount reported in the “Other Income/(Expense)” section of the statement of operations. Increases in value are reported as other expenses and decreases in value are reported as other income.
NOTE 16 -DERIVATIVE LIABILITIES - WARRANTS
To date, the Company has authorized the issuance of Common Stock Purchase Warrants, with terms of five to seven years, to various corporations and individuals, in connection with the sale of securities, loan agreements and consulting agreements. Exercise prices range from $0.0625 to $0.25 per warrant. The warrants expire at various times through April 25, 2018.
A summary of warrant activity for the fiscal years indicated below is as follows:
Accounting Standard Codification “ASC” 815 - Derivatives and Hedging, which provides guidance on determining what types of instruments or embedded features in an instrument issued by a reporting entity can be considered indexed to its own stock for the purpose of evaluating the first criteria of the scope exception in the pronouncement on accounting for derivatives. These requirements can affect the accounting for warrants and convertible preferred instruments issued by the Company. As the conversion features within, and the detachable warrants issued with the Company’s Series B, Series C, and Series E Preferred Stock, do not have fixed settlement provisions because their conversion and exercise prices may be lowered if the Company issues securities at lower prices in the future, we have concluded that the instruments are not indexed to the Company’s stock and are to be treated as derivative liabilities.
The Warrant Derivative Liabilities are measured at fair market value, using the market approach and a level 3 fair value hierarchy, on a recurring basis as of March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012, in accordance with the valuation techniques discussed in ASC 820.
The portion of derivative liabilities related to outstanding warrants was valued using the Black-Scholes option valuation model, a level 3 fair value hierarchy using the following assumptions:
The risk free interest rate was based on rates established by the US Treasury Department. The expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of the Company’s share price for periods equal to the expected life of the outstanding warrants at each valuation date. The expected dividend rate was based on the fact that the Company has not historically paid dividends on common stock and does not expect to pay dividends on common stock in the future.
The changes of $(4,089,491) and $1,444,075 in value of the warrant derivative liability occurring during the years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, are included in the amounts reported in the “Other Income/(Expense)” section of the statement of operations. Increases in value are reported as other expenses and decreases in value are reported as other income.
The following table summarizes, as of March 31, 2013, the warrant activity subject to Level 3 inputs which are measured on a recurring basis:
Fair value measurements of warrants using significant unobservable inputs
(Level 3)
NOTE 17 -BENEFICIAL CONVERSION FEATURES OF SERIES E PREFERRED SHARES
The Series E Preferred shares include an option, exercisable from the issuance date, to convert to common shares at prices which were less than the market price of the Company’s Common Stock on the date such Series E Preferred shares were issued. The difference between the share price and option price represents a beneficial conversion feature existing on the issue date.
In accordance with GAAP, the beneficial conversion feature was valued separately and allocated to additional paid in capital. The valuations were calculated using the relative fair value method allocating the proceeds from each issuance of the Series E Preferred shares to the conversion option and detachable warrants, if such warrants were included with an issuance.
The beneficial conversion option is then required to be recognized as a discount and amortized over a period that begins on the date of issuance and ends on the earliest conversion date. As the conversion options were exercisable on their issue date, the full value assigned to the conversion option was immediately amortized and charged to interest expense.
During Fiscal 2013, the Company issued a total of 437.5 shares of Series E Preferred Stock which included a conversion option at a price that was less than the market price of the Company’s Common Stock on the date of issuance of the Series E Preferred Stock.
The valuation of the beneficial conversion feature, and detachable warrants, where applicable, for Series E Preferred Share issuances during Fiscal 2013 and Fiscal 2012 is summarized as follows:
NOTE 18 -COMMON STOCK
During Fiscal Years 2013 and 2012, the Company issued a total of 42,844,221 shares and 151,104,071 shares of Common Stock, respectively, with such issuances of Common Stock being summarized as follows:
NOTE 19 -PER SHARE INFORMATION
Basic earnings per share of common stock (“Basic EPS”) is computed by dividing the net income(loss) by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding. Diluted earnings per share of common stock (“Diluted EPS”) is computed by dividing the net income(loss) by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock and dilutive common stock equivalents and convertible securities then outstanding. GAAP requires the presentation of both Basic EPS and Diluted EPS, if such Diluted EPS is not anti-dilutive, on the face of the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. As the Company had a net loss for Fiscal Year 2012, Diluted EPS is not presented as the effect of the Company’s common stock equivalents and convertible securities is anti-dilutive.
Basic EPS is calculated as follows:
Diluted EPS (for Fiscal 2013) is calculated as follows:
NOTE 20 -STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
Part or all of the compensation paid by the Company to its Directors and employees consists of the issuance of Common Stock or via the granting of options to purchase Common Stock
Stock-based Director Compensation
The Company’s Director compensation policy instituted in October 2009 includes provisions that Director’s fees are to be paid via the issuance of shares of the Company’s Common Stock, in lieu of cash, with the valuation of such shares being calculated on a quarterly basis and equal to the average closing price of the Company’s common stock for the quarter just ended.
During Fiscal 2013, the Company issued 1,200,588 shares of Common Stock to its Directors in payment of Director’s fees in the aggregate amount of $130,000 and related to the calendar year ending on December 31, 2012. On the date of their issuance, the Common Shares had a value of $96,047, based upon the closing price of the Company’s Common Stock on such date. Please note that the shares issued during Fiscal 2013, include those shares owed and not yet issued at the end of Fiscal Year 2012.
During Fiscal Year 2012, the Company issued 1,505,613 shares of Common Stock to its Directors in payment of Director’s fees in the aggregate amount of $130,000 and related to the period beginning on January 1, 2011 and ending on December 31, 2011. On the date of their issuance, the Common Shares had a value of $145,894, based upon the closing price of the Company’s Common Stock on such date. Please note that the shares issued during Fiscal Year 2012, include those shares owed and not yet issued at the end of Fiscal Year 2011.
As of March 31, 2013, the Company owes its Directors a total of 327,635 shares of Common Stock in payment of Directors Fees totaling $27,500 for the three months ended March 31, 2013. The Company anticipates that these shares of Common Stock will be issued during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014.
Stock-based Employee Compensation
Employment contracts with the Company’s President, Chief Financial Officer and certain other employees includes provisions for a portion of each employees salaries to be paid via the issuance of shares of the Company’s Common, in lieu of cash, with the valuation of such shares being calculated on a quarterly basis and equal to the average closing price of the Company’s common stock for the quarter just ended.
During Fiscal Year 2013, the Company issued a total of 625,900 shares of Common Stock to its President, Chief Financial Officer and certain other employees in payment of salaries in the aggregate amount of $67,917 and related to the period calendar year ended December 31, 2012. On the date of their issuance, the Common Shares had a value of $50,072, based upon the closing price of the Company’s Common Stock on such date. Please note that the shares issued during Fiscal 2013, include those shares owed and not yet issued at the end of Fiscal 2012.
During Fiscal Year 2012, the Company issued a total of 694,889 shares of Common Stock to its President, Chief Financial Officer and certain other employees in payment of salaries in the aggregate amount of $60,000 and related to the period beginning on January 1, 2011 and ending on December 31, 2011. On the date of their issuance, the Common Shares had a value of $67,336, based upon the closing price of the Company’s Common Stock on such date. Please note that the shares issued during Fiscal Year 2012, include those shares owed and not yet issued at the end of Fiscal Year 2011.
As of March 31, 2013, the Company owes its President, Chief Financial Officer and certain other employees a total of 288,913 shares of Common Stock in payment of salaries totaling $24,250 for the three months ended March 31, 2013, with such amount being recorded in accrued expenses. The Company anticipates that these shares of Common Stock will be issued during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014.
Stock option based Employee Compensation
During Fiscal 2013, the Company issued, to various employees, options to purchase a total of 985,000 shares Common Stock, in aggregate (the “2013 Options”). The 2013 Options have an exercise price of $0.12 per share, vest equally over a three year period which commences one year from the date of grant and expire ten years from the date of grant. The fair value of the 2013 Options was $113,842, computed using the Black-Scholes options pricing model on the grant date. Such fair value is being amortized by the Company, on a straight line basis, over the vesting period and recorded on the Company’s Statement of Income as “Non-cash compensation through the issuance of stock options”.
During the year ended March 31, 2010 (“Fiscal 2010”) the Company issued, to various employees, options to purchase a total of 1,000,000 shares of Common Stock, in aggregate (the “2010 Options”). The 2010 Options have an exercise price of $0.10, vest over a three year period which commences one year from the date of grant and expire ten years from the date of grant. The fair value of the 2010 Options was $93,452, computed using the Black-Scholes options pricing model on the grant date. Such fair value is being amortized by the Company, on a straight line basis, over the vesting period, and recorded on the Company’s Statement of Income as “Non-cash compensation through the issuance of stock options”.
Stock option based employee compensation is summarized as follows:
NOTE 21 -STOCK OPTION PLANS
Under its 2004 Stock Option Plan and prior options plans, the Company may grant stock options to officers, selected employees, as well as members of the Board of Directors and advisory board members. All options have generally been granted at a price equal to or greater than the fair market value of the Company’s Common Stock at the date of the grant. Generally, options are granted with a vesting period of up to three years and expire ten years from the date of grant.
Transactions under the plans for the years indicated were as follows:
The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at March 31, 2013:
As of March 31, 2013, there were 5,535,100 options available for future grant under our Stock Option Plan.
NOTE 22 -INCOME TAXES
The components of the credit for income taxes are as follows:
The Major components of deferred tax assets and liabilities at March 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows:
At March 31, 2013 and 2012, a 100% valuation allowance is provided, as it is uncertain if the deferred tax assets will provide any future benefits because of the uncertainty about the Company’s ability to generate the future taxable income necessary to use the net operating loss carryforwards.
NOTE 23 -REMOVAL OF LODRANE PRODUCTS FROM THE US MARKET
On March 3, 2011, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“US-FDA”) announced its intention to remove approximately 500 cough/cold and allergy related products from the U.S. market. The Company manufactured two of the drugs impacted by the US-FDA’s action. The affected products are:
Product Active Ingredient , Strength
Lodrane® 24 Capsules Brompheniramine maleate, 12mg
Lodrane® 24D Capsules Brompheniramine maleate, 12mg/pseudoephedrine HCl, 90mg
According to the press release issued by the US-FDA, manufacturers must stop manufacturing the affected products within 90 days after March 3, 2011 and distribution of the effected products must stop within 180 days after March 3, 2011.
For the year ended March 31, 2011, gross revenues earned by the Company from the Lodrane® products equaled $4.2 million, or approximately 97% of the Company’s total income for the year.
Shortly after the announcement by the US-FDA, the Company’s customer for the Lodrane® products cancelled all outstanding orders, other than those for which manufacturing had already begun, advising the Company that existing stocks of Lodrane® were sufficient and that additional quantities could not be sold prior to the 180 day deadline announced by the US-FDA.
The last shipment of Lodrane® products was made by the Company in April 2011 and manufacturing of Lodrane® has ceased.
While the timing of the announcement by the US-FDA resulted in such having a minimal effect on the Company’s operations for the 2011 Fiscal Year, the Company’s inability to manufacture Lodrane® has a material adverse effect on its revenues for periods beginning after March 31, 2011.
Please refer to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 4, 2011, such filing being herein incorporated by reference, for further details on this announcement.
NOTE 24 -MAJOR CUSTOMERS
Six customers accounted for substantially all of the Company’s revenues for Fiscal 2013. Included in these six customers are three customers that accounted for approximately 90 percent of revenues for Fiscal 2012, and three additional customers that had little or no related revenues for Fiscal 2012.
NOTE 25 -TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES
Transactions with Epic Pharma LLC and Epic Investments LLC
On March 18, 2009, the Company entered into the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement with Epic Pharma, LLC and Epic Investments, LLC, a subsidiary controlled by Epic Pharma LLC, as disclosed in this Annual Report Form 10-K under Item 7