ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
HOTEL PROPERTIES
At December 31, 1999, the Company owned interests in the following 13 hotel properties:
Number of Guest Property Rooms Location - -------- --------- --------
Radisson Convention Hotel 565 Bloomington, MN
Le Meridien New Orleans 494 New Orleans, LA
Le Meridien Dallas 407 Dallas, TX
Marriott Seaview Resort 297 Absecon, NJ (Atlantic City)
Holiday Inn Beachside Resort 222 Key West, FL
San Diego Paradise Point Resort 462 San Diego, CA
LaGuardia Airport Marriott 436 New York, NY
Omaha Marriott Hotel 299 Omaha, NE
Radisson Hotel Tampa 265 Tampa, FL
Holiday Inn Plaza Park 257 Visalia, CA
Le Montrose All Suite Hotel 132 West Hollywood, CA
Harborside Hyatt Conference Center & Hotel 270 Boston, MA
Hotel Viking 194 Newport, RI
RADISSON CONVENTION HOTEL. Radisson Convention Hotel is an upscale full service convention hotel located at the intersection of Interstate 494 and Highway 100, approximately 15 minutes from the Minneapolis/St. Paul International Airport, and five miles from the Mall of America. The hotel is leased to and operated by affiliates of Radisson Group, Inc. ("Radisson").
LE MERIDIEN NEW ORLEANS. Le Meridien New Orleans is a luxury full service convention oriented hotel located in downtown New Orleans, a major convention city. The hotel is centrally located across the street from the French Quarter and near the central business district, the Ernest N. Morial Convention Center and the New Orleans Superdome. The hotel has received the AAA Four Diamond award for 14 consecutive years. The hotel is subject to a 99-year ground lease, which expires May 2081. The hotel is leased to and operated by affiliates of Le Meridien Hotels & Resorts ("Meridien").
LE MERIDIEN DALLAS. Le Meridien Dallas is an upscale full service convention oriented hotel located in downtown Dallas, approximately 25 minutes from the Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport, in the heart of the city's arts and financial districts. The hotel is conveniently located near the City Convention Center, four stops away on the new Dallas light rail system, with a DART station adjacent to the hotel. The hotel is leased to and operated by Meridien.
MARRIOTT SEAVIEW RESORT. Marriott Seaview Resort is a luxury golf and conference resort located in Brigantine Bay, approximately nine miles north of Atlantic City, New Jersey. The hotel is leased to the Affiliated Lessee and operated by Marriott International, Inc. ("Marriott") pursuant to a long-term incentive-based operating agreement.
HOLIDAY INN BEACHSIDE RESORT. Holiday Inn Beachside Resort is an upscale full service resort comprised of several one, two and three-story buildings, located on an approximately 7.8 acre parcel north of U.S. 1 on the beach facing the gulf of Mexico. The resort is located on the island of Key West, considered to have the most consistent weather in Florida, and benefits from the island's reputation as a popular tourist destination. The hotel is leased to and operated by affiliates of Durbin Companies, Inc. ("Durbin").
SAN DIEGO PARADISE POINT RESORT. San Diego Paradise Point Resort is an upscale resort that lies on 44 acres and has nearly one mile of beachfront and is located in the heart of Mission Bay on Vacation Island, a 4,600-acre aquatic park in southwest San Diego County. The resort is minutes away from the San Diego International Airport and convenient to many major San Diego tourist attractions including Sea World, Old Town, Downtown San Diego, the San Diego Convention Center, Qualcomm Stadium and the San Diego Zoo. The hotel is subject to a 50-year ground lease, which expires December 2044. The hotel is leased to and operated by WestGroup San Diego Associates, Ltd ("WestGroup"), an affiliate of Noble House Hotels and Resorts.
LAGUARDIA AIRPORT MARRIOTT. LaGuardia Airport Marriott is an upscale full service urban/major business hotel located directly across from New York's LaGuardia Airport. The hotel is five minutes from Shea Stadium and the USTA National Tennis Center and 20 minutes from Manhattan. The hotel is leased to the Affiliated Lessee and operated by Marriott pursuant to a long-term incentive based operating agreement.
OMAHA MARRIOTT HOTEL. Omaha Marriott Hotel is an upscale full service major business hotel located in the western suburbs of Omaha at one of the city's busiest intersections (I-680 and West Dodge Road). The hotel is located in the Regency Office Park, a mixed use development containing over 865,000 square feet of office and retail space, and directly across West Dodge Road from Westroads Shopping Center, the largest shopping mall in Omaha. The hotel is leased to the Affiliated Lessee and operated by Marriott pursuant to a long-term incentive based operating agreement.
RADISSON HOTEL TAMPA. The Radisson Hotel Tampa is an upscale full service major business hotel located in east suburban Tampa, Florida. The hotel is situated at the entrance to Sabal Business Park, a three million square foot office complex. The hotel is near Busch Gardens and Houlihan's Stadium, 50 minutes from Walt Disney World in Orlando, and a 35 minute drive to Tampa International Airport. The hotel is leased to and operated by Radisson.
HOLIDAY INN PLAZA PARK. Holiday Inn Plaza Park is a mid-price full service hotel located at the junction of Highways 99 and 198 in Visalia, California. The hotel is situated in the heart of Central California, a major agri-business center and is also a popular tourist destination due to its central location and proximity to Yosemite, Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks. In addition, the hotel is utilized extensively by major corporate groups and social users due to the size and flexibility of its meeting space and ample parking. The hotel is leased to and operated by affiliates of Outrigger Lodging Services ("OLS").
LE MONTROSE ALL SUITE HOTEL. Le Montrose All Suite Hotel is a five- story, luxury full-service hotel located in West Hollywood, California, two blocks east of Beverly Hills and one block south of the "Sunset Strip". The hotel is within walking distance of many of the area's finest restaurants, retail shops and night clubs. The hotel attracts short and long-term guests and small groups primarily from the recording, film and design industries. The hotel is leased to and operated by OLS.
HARBORSIDE HYATT CONFERENCE CENTER & HOTEL. Harborside Hyatt Conference Center & Hotel is a full-service luxury conference and airport hotel located adjacent to Boston's Logan International Airport along the Boston waterfront. The property features 19,000 square feet of meeting space and is directly across from Boston's central business district and next to the Ted Williams tunnel, providing convenient access to downtown Boston. The property is subject to a long-term ground lease from Massport, Logan International Airport's owner and operating authority. The hotel is leased by the Affiliated Lessee and operated by Hyatt pursuant to a long- term incentive-based operating agreement.
HOTEL VIKING. Hotel Viking is a full-service upscale resort located on Bellevue Avenue in Newport, RI, a resort area that is rapidly becoming a year round hotel market. The Hotel offers 29,000 square feet of meeting space, two restaurants, a lounge and a rooftop bar. The acquisition also included the fully restored Kay Chapel and Trinity Parish House, both adjacent to the Hotel, as well as a twelve room inn located directly across the street. The hotel is leased and operated by Viking Hotel Corporation, an affiliate of Bellevue Properties Inc.
THE PARTICIPATING LEASES
In order for the Company to qualify as a REIT, neither the Company nor the Operating Partnership may operate hotels or related properties. The Operating Partnership leases the Hotels to the Lessees for terms of between six and 11 years (from commencement) pursuant to separate Participating Leases that provide for rent equal to the greater of Base Rent or Participating Rent and which set forth the Lessees' required capitalization and certain other matters. Unless otherwise noted, each Participating Lease contains the provisions described below.
PARTICIPATING LEASE TERMS. The Participating Leases have an average term of approximately 10 years, with expiration dates staggered between the years 2004 and 2009, subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain contingencies described in the Participating Leases (including, particularly, the provisions summarized below under the captions "Damage to Hotels," "Condemnation of Hotels," "Termination of Participating Leases for Failure to Meet Performance Goals" and "Termination of Participating Leases upon Disposition of Hotels"). The variation of the lease terms is intended to provide the Company with protection from the risk inherent in simultaneous lease expirations and to align the expiration of certain of the Participating Leases with the expiration of the applicable franchise license.
BASE RENT; PARTICIPATING RENT; ADDITIONAL CHARGES. Each Participating Lease requires the applicable Lessee to pay (x) the greater of (i) Base Rent in a fixed amount (ii) Participating Rent based on certain percentages of room revenue, food and beverage revenue and telephone and other revenue at the applicable Hotel, and (y) certain other amounts, including utility charges, certain impositions and insurance premiums, and interest accrued on any late payments or charges ("Additional Charges"). Each lease year and beginning in January 2001 for the Hotel Viking, the Base Rent and Participating Rent thresholds are increased to reflect any increase in the applicable Consumer Price Index published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States of America Department of Labor, U.S. City Average, Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers ("CPI"). Lessees are required to pay Base Rent monthly in arrears by the first day of each calendar month, and Participating Rent is payable quarterly in arrears by the twentieth day of each fiscal quarter, except for the Hotels operated by Marriott, the Hotel operated by Hyatt and Hotel Viking, whose rents are due in accordance with their respective Participating Leases, as defined. Participating Rent
is calculated based on the year-to-date departmental receipts as of the end of the preceding fiscal quarter, plus the prorated amount of each of the applicable departmental thresholds for the fiscal quarter, or portion thereof, minus the cumulative Participating Rent previously paid for such fiscal year and the cumulative Base Rent paid for such fiscal year as of the end of the preceding fiscal quarter.
Other than real estate and personal property taxes, casualty insurance including business interruption insurance, ground lease payments, capital impositions and capital replacements and refurbishments (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), which are obligations of the Company, the Participating Leases require the Lessees to pay rent, condominium dues, certain insurance, all costs and expenses, and all utility and other charges incurred in the operation of the Hotels. The Participating Leases also provide for rent reductions and abatements in the event of damage or destruction or a partial taking of any Hotel as described under "Damage to Hotels" and "Condemnation of Hotels."
The Company has sold certain FF&E to the Lessees of Radisson Convention Hotel and Le Meridien Dallas at its book value in exchange for promissory notes receivable ("FF&E Notes") of approximately $1.0 million and $.6 million, respectively. The FF&E Notes bear interest at 6.0% and 5.6% per annum, respectively, and are payable in monthly installments of interest only. These FF&E Notes have an initial term of five years unless extended at the Company's option. Additionally, the Company provided working capital to each of the Lessees in the aggregate amount of $5.9 million in exchange for a note receivable ("Working Capital Notes"). The Working Capital Notes bear interest at either 5.6% or 6.0% per annum, and are payable in monthly installments of interest only. The term of each Working Capital Note is identical to the term of the related Participating Lease. Payments made under the FF&E Notes and the Working Capital Notes are used to reduce the related Participating Lease payments by an equal amount. The total of the interest income payments and Participating Lease payments will be equal to the amounts calculated by applying the rent provisions of the Participating Leases to the revenues of the Hotels.
RESERVES. The Participating Leases for the Hotels obligate the Company to make funds available for capital improvements at the Hotels (including the periodic replacement or refurbishment of FF&E)in amounts ranging from 4.0% to 5.5% of total revenue from the Hotels, with the amount of such reserve with respect to each hotel representing projected capital requirements of each hotel. The Company's obligation to make funds available for capital improvements has not been recorded on the books and records of the Company as such amounts are and will be capitalized as incurred. Any unexpended amounts will remain the property of the Company upon termination of the Participating Leases. The reserve requirements for the hotels operated by Marriott and Hyatt are contained in certain non- cancelable operating agreements, which require the reserves for the hotels operated by Marriott and Hyatt to be maintained through restricted cash escrows ("FF&E Escrows"). The amounts maintained in the FF&E escrows have been recorded on the books and records of the Company. Otherwise, the Lessees are required, at their expense, to maintain the Hotels in good order and repair, subject to ordinary wear and tear, and to make all necessary and appropriate nonstructural, foreseen and unforeseen, and ordinary and extraordinary repairs (other than capital repairs) which may be necessary and appropriate to keep the Hotels in good order and repair.
The Lessees are not obligated to bear the cost of any capital improvements or capital repairs to the Hotels. With the consent of the Company, however, the Lessees may utilize funds from the capital expenditure reserves to make capital additions, modifications or improvements to the Hotels. All such alterations, replacements and improvements are subject to all the terms and provisions of the Participating Leases and will become the property of the Company upon termination of the Participating Leases. The Company owns substantially all
personal property (other than FF&E which has been sold to the Lessees of Radisson Convention Hotel and Le Meridien Dallas, inventory, linens and other nondepreciable personal property) not affixed to, or deemed a part of, the real estate or improvements on the Hotels, except to the extent that ownership of such personal property would cause any portion of the rents under the Participating Leases not to qualify as "rents from real property" for REIT income test purposes.
INSURANCE AND PROPERTY TAXES. The Company is responsible for paying (i) real estate and personal property taxes on the Hotels, (ii) any ground lease payments on the Hotels, (iii) casualty insurance on the Hotels, and (iv) business interruption insurance on the Hotels. The Lessees are required to pay for or reimburse the Company for all liability insurance on the Hotels, with extended coverage, including comprehensive general public liability, workers' compensation and other insurance appropriate and customary for properties similar to the Hotels and naming the Company as an additional insured, where permitted by law.
EVENTS OF DEFAULT. Events of Default under the Participating Leases include, among others, the following:
(i) the failure by a Lessee to pay Base or Participating Rent within ten days after same is due; or with respect to Radisson Convention Hotel, ten days after notice of non-payment;
(ii) the failure of a Lessee to observe or perform any other term of a Participating Lease and the continuation of such failure beyond any applicable cure or grace period;
(iii) the failure of a Lessee to pay for required insurance;
(iv) the failure of a Lessee to maintain the Required Minimum Net Worth or the security deposit, as applicable;
(v) should a Lessee or Operator file a petition for relief or reorganization or arrangement or any other petition in bankruptcy, for liquidation or to take advantage of any bankruptcy or insolvency law of any jurisdiction, or consent to the appointment of a custodian, receiver, trustee or other similar office with respect to it or any substantial part of its assets, or take corporate action for the purpose of any of the foregoing; or if a court or governmental authority of competent jurisdiction shall enter an order appointing, without consent by the Lessee or Operator, a custodian, receiver, trustee or other similar officer with respect to the Lessee or Operator or any substantial part of its assets, or if an order for relief shall be entered in any case or proceeding for liquidation or reorganization or otherwise to take advantage of any bankruptcy or insolvency law of any jurisdiction, or ordering the dissolution, winding up or liquidation of the Lessee or Operator, or if any petition for any such relief shall be filed against the Lessee or Operator and such petition shall not be dismissed within 120 days;
(vi) should a Lessee or Operator cause a default beyond applicable grace periods, if any, under any Franchise Agreement or Operator Agreement relating to any Hotel; or
(vii) should a Lessee or Operator voluntarily cease operations of the Leased Property for more than three (3) days other than by reason of casualty, condemnation or force majeure.
In addition, an Event of Default will result in a cross-default of all other Participating Leases to which the Lessee is a party; except with respect to a default at Radisson Hotel Tampa, which would not result in a cross default of Radisson Convention Hotel.
INDEMNIFICATION. Under each of the Participating Leases, the Lessees will indemnify, and are obligated to hold harmless, the Company, the Advisor and their officers and trustees, from and against all liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred by, imposed upon or asserted against the Company or any of them on account of, among other things, (i) any accident or injury to persons or property on or about the Hotels, (ii) any misuse by the applicable Lessee or any of its agents of the leased property, (iii) any environmental liability caused or resulting from any action or negligence of the Lessee or Operator (see "Environmental Matters"); (iv) taxes and assessments in respect of the Hotels (other than real estate and personal property taxes and income taxes of the Company on income attributable to the Hotels and capital impositions); (v) the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages on or in the real property or improvements thereon; or (vi) the failure to comply with the terms of the Participating Leases by the Lessee; provided, however, that such indemnification will not be construed to require the Lessee to indemnify the Company against the Company's own negligent acts or misconduct.
ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLEASING. The Lessees are not permitted to sublet all or any part of the Hotels or assign their interest under any of the Participating Leases, other than to affiliates of certain of the applicable Lessees, without the prior written consent of the Company. No assignment or subletting will release a Lessee from any of its obligations under the Participating Leases unless the Company expressly agrees that the Lessee shall be released from any of its obligations under the Participating Leases.
DAMAGE TO HOTELS. In the event of damage to or destruction of any hotel covered by insurance which then renders the leased property unsuitable for its intended use and occupancy as a hotel, the Participating Lease shall terminate, and the Company shall generally be entitled to retain the proceeds of insurance. In the event that damage to or destruction of a hotel which is covered by insurance does not render the leased property unsuitable for its intended use and occupancy as a hotel, the Company generally will be obligated to repair or restore the hotel to substantially the same condition as existed immediately prior to such damage. In the event of damage to or destruction of any hotel that is not covered by insurance, the Company generally, may either repair, rebuild or restore the hotel (at the Company's expense) to substantially the same condition as existed immediately prior to such damage, or terminate the Participating Lease on the terms and conditions set forth in such Participating Lease.
CONDEMNATION OF HOTELS. In the event of a total condemnation of a hotel, the relevant Participating Lease will terminate with respect to such
hotel as of the date of taking, and the Company will be entitled to all of the condemnation award in accordance with the provisions of the Participating Lease. In the event of a partial taking which does not render the property unsuitable for its intended use as a hotel, then the Company generally will be obligated to restore the untaken portion of the property, and the Company shall contribute the condemnation award to the cost of such restoration.
TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATING LEASES. The Company has the right to terminate the Participating Lease for a hotel if the hotel fails to meet certain performance goals, as defined. Additionally, in the event the Company enters into an agreement to sell or otherwise transfer a hotel, the Company, at its option, may terminate the Participating Lease upon 30 days' notice to the applicable Lessee, subject to certain provisions. Additionally, in the event that changes in federal income tax laws allow the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate to directly operate hotels, the Company will have the right to terminate all, but not less than all, Participating Leases with the Lessees.
OTHER LEASE COVENANTS. Each Lessee has agreed that during the term of its Participating Lease, the Lessee will not engage in any unrelated business activities. The owners of each Lessee and their parent entities have agreed that, for the term of its Participating Lease, any sale of their interest in such Lessee, or of their hotel management businesses in general, will subject their interest in the Lessee to a limited fair market value acquisition right in favor of a designee of the Company. In the event that the Company exercises this right, any nonselling partner of the Lessee will have the right to put its interest in the Lessee to the Company's designee at a price equal to the fair market value of such interest. The Participating Leases require each Lessee to make available to the Company unaudited monthly and quarterly and audited annual operating information for each Hotel leased by such Lessee.
INVENTORY. All inventory required in the operation of the hotels is owned by the applicable Lessee. Upon termination of a related Participating Lease, the Lessee shall surrender the related hotel together with all such inventory to the Company.
ITEM 3.