Item 2. Properties
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the hotels we owned as of December 31, 2000.
- ------------------------- (1) Represents restaurant revenue, telephone revenue and other revenue. (2) REVPAR is determined by dividing room revenue by available rooms for the applicable period. (3) A portion of the land adjacent to this hotel, which is not currently used for hotel operations, is leased to an affiliate for $1 per year for 99 years. (4) The land underlying this hotel is leased to our operating Partnership by certain affiliates for rent of $15,000 per year for 99 years.
Best Western, Indiana, Pennsylvania
Description. The Best Western University Inn, Indiana, Pennsylvania is located at 1545 Wayne Avenue. This facility has 107 guest rooms and underwent a complete renovation in 1998. Amenities include business suites, banquet facilities, a full service restaurant and lounge, an outdoor pool and several large meeting rooms.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. The guest profile consists mostly of leisure guests. The Indiana University of Pennsylvania ("IUP") is a major source of business including sports groups and guests visiting the university. We consider the hotel's primary competition to be the Holiday Inn, Comfort Inn and Super 8 located in Indiana, PA.
Clarion Suites, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Description. The Clarion Suites, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania is located at 1010 Race Street, one half block from the newly-built Philadelphia convention center and six blocks from the Independence Hall historic district and the Liberty Bell. The hotel is located in the historic Bentwood Rocking Chair Company building, which was constructed in 1896 and converted to a Quality Suites hotel in the 1980s. The hotel was purchased by an affiliate as a Ramada Suites in 1995 and substantially rehabilitated. The affiliate later converted the hotel to a Clarion Suites. The hotel has 96 executive suites with fully-equipped kitchens and an eight-story interior corridor with Victorian style architecture. The hotel has a lounge featuring light fare and a comedy cabaret. Amenities include two large meeting rooms, boardrooms, a fitness room and a complimentary continental breakfast.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 20% of the hotel's business is comprised of leisure travelers and transient guests related to its close proximity to the historic district. The remainder of the hotel's business is due to commercial activity from local businesses and people visiting area residents. We consider this hotel's primary competition to be all Center City, Philadelphia hotels.
Comfort Suites, Duluth, GA
Description. The Comfort Suites, Gwinnett Place Mall is located just off Pleasant Hill Road and Interstate 85 at exit 40. Opened in June 1996, this 85 suite hotel features large spacious guest suites each equipped with a king size bed or two double beds. Amenities include a fitness center, Jacuzzi within a large sunroom, indoor pool and meeting facilities with a 60 person capacity.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Numerous local business parks in Duluth, Norcross and Lawrenceville play a vital role in the hotel's success. Companies such as Scientific Atlanta, Primerica Financial Services, NCR, Motorola, Hitatchi, and Lucent Technologies all have major offices in the area and use this hotel frequently for room nights and meeting space. The leisure market is fueled by the Gwinnett Place Mall and many local events. We consider the hotel's primary competitors to be the Holiday Inn Express, the Hampton Inn & Suites, the Courtyard Gwinnett Mall and the Fairfield Inn.
Comfort Inn (Riverfront), Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
Description. The Comfort Inn Riverfront, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, is located at 525 South Front Street. The hotel was opened in 1968, was purchased in 1984 and was fully renovated in 1996. It is a 117-room, limited service hotel with non-smoking units available. The hotel has an adjacent restaurant and lounge. Amenities include a fitness center and adjacent banquet and meeting facilities with a 200-person capacity.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 25% of the hotel's business is related to business from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The remainder of the hotel's business consists of tourists, overnight travelers and people visiting local residents. We consider this hotel's primary competition to be the Holiday Inn Crowne Plaza on Second Street in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.
Comfort Inn, Denver, Pennsylvania
Description. The Comfort Inn, Denver, Pennsylvania is located at 2015 North Reading Road. This 45-room limited service hotel was constructed in 1990 and renovated in 1995. All rooms have one king bed or two queen beds and non-smoking units are available. Amenities include a fitness center and a complimentary continental breakfast.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 75% of the hotel's business is comprised of leisure travelers and transient guests related to its location at the crossroads of two major interstate highways. The remainder of the hotel's business is due to commercial activity from local businesses and people visiting area residents. We consider this hotel's primary competition to be the Holiday Inn in Denver, Pennsylvania.
Comfort Inn, McHenry, Maryland
Description. This Comfort Inn is located at 2704 Deep Creek Drive in McHenry, Maryland, minutes from the Deep Creek Lake and Wisp ski and golf resort. This 75-room hotel property underwent a complete renovation in 1998. Amenities include oversized guestrooms, continental breakfast area, meeting rooms and select Jacuzzi suites.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. The majority of the hotel's business comes from leisure guests vacationing at the nearby Deep Creek Lake and Wisp ski resort. The hotel's competition mainly consists of lodging facilities at the Wisp ski resort and other independently owned motel properties.
Comfort Inn, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
Description. The Comfort Inn, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania is located 8 miles north of Hershey, Pennsylvania at 7744 Linglestown Road off exit 27 of Interstate 81. The hotel opened in May 1998. It is an 81-room limited service hotel. Amenities include an indoor pool, hot tub, fitness center, meeting facilities, complimentary continental breakfast and 24-hour coffee. All rooms have one king bed or two queen beds and some Jacuzzi suites are available.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 25% of the hotel's business is related to commercial activity from local businesses. The hotel's group business, which accounts for approximately 5% of its business, is generated from area institutions, local weddings and local social and sporting events. The remainder of the hotel's business consists of transient and recreational travelers generated by its proximity to Hershey, Pennsylvania. We consider this hotel's primary competition to be the Holiday Inn in Grantville, Pennsylvania.
Comfort Inn JFK, Jamaica New York
Description. The Comfort Inn JFK, Jamaica, NY is located at 144-36 153rd Lane. The hotel was newly constructed and opened in 1999. It is a 60-room, limited service hotel with non-smoking units available and a complimentary breakfast buffet.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 75% of the hotel's business is related to business from the John F. Kennedy International Airport. The hotel's primary competition is the Ramada JFK, Holiday Inn JFK, Hilton JFK, and the Sheraton Hotel JFK.
Hampton Inn, Peachtree City, GA
Description. This Hampton Inn Hotel is located in the Atlanta community of Peachtree City. This 61-room, limited service hotel opened in 1994. A poured concrete structure, this two-story building features the traditional Hampton Inn architecture with metal rooflines and an ample porte-cochere. This hotel features an outdoor pool and has an oversize fitness facility. The hotel has a meeting room that can accommodate 25 persons.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Peachtree City is home to over ten Fortune 500 companies and boasts a two million square foot industrial park. Several major Japanese companies, including Panasonic, Hoshizaki, TDK and Shinsei, are headquartered in Peachtree City. The hotel's primary competitors are the Holiday Inn, Sleep Inn, and Days Inn all located in Peachtree City.
Hampton Inn, Newnan, GA
Description. The Hampton Inn, Newnan, is located in one of Atlanta's fastest growing counties. This 91-room hotel sits adjacent to Interstate I-85 and features traditional Hampton Inn architecture with three floors on poured concrete. This hotel features an outdoor pool, fitness centers, and full service meeting room.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. The primary demand generators for the Hampton Inn, Newnan, include several major corporations located in the industrial park which include Yokogawa, Johnson-Yokogawa, Yamaha, Kawasaki, Ryder, Ritchie Brothers, and Southern States Vehicle Auctions. The industrial park is slated for expansion and Coweta County's population has grown by over 40% since 1991. Leisure demand is generated by
weddings, festivals, local racetracks and a tourist base. The main competition for this hotel includes the Jameson Inn, Springhill Suites, Comfort Inn, Best Western and Holiday Inn Express.
Hampton Inn, Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania
Description. The Hampton Inn, Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania is located on Pennsylvania Routes 11 and 15. The hotel, which opened in September 1996, is a 75-room, three story, limited service hotel. Amenities include an indoor pool, hot tub, fitness center, meeting facilities, complimentary continental breakfast and 24-hour coffee. All rooms have one king bed or two queen beds, some Jacuzzi suites are available and some rooms have refrigerators, coffee makers and microwaves. The Hampton Inn in Selinsgrove was recently named one of the top hotels in the entire Hampton Inn system, receiving the hotel chain's Circle of Excellence Award. The award recognizes superior quality and guest satisfaction and is the highest distinction a Hampton Inn hotel can receive.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 80% of the hotel's business is related to commercial activity from local businesses. The remainder of the hotel's business consists of pleasure travelers, transient guests and demand generated by the hotel's proximity to area universities and Knoebels Amusement Park. We consider this hotel's primary competition to be the Best Western near Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania.
Hampton Inn, Carlisle, Pennsylvania
Description. The Hampton Inn, Carlisle, Pennsylvania is located at the intersection of Route 11 and exit 16 off the Pennsylvania Turnpike. The hotel, which opened in June 1997, is a 95-room limited service hotel. Amenities include an indoor pool, hot tub, fitness center, meeting facilities, complimentary continental breakfast and 24-hour coffee. All rooms have one king bed or two queen beds, some Jacuzzi suites are available and some rooms have refrigerators, coffee makers and microwaves.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 50% of the hotel's business is related to commercial activity from local businesses. The remainder of the hotel's business consists of overnight travelers and general demand generated by the hotel's proximity to the Carlisle Fairgrounds and the Army War College. We consider this hotel's primary competition to be the Holiday Inn in Carlisle, Pennsylvania.
Hampton Inn, Danville, Pennsylvania
Description. The Hampton Inn, Danville, Pennsylvania, is located at Exit 33 off Interstate 80. The hotel, which opened in September 1998, has 72 guest rooms. Amenities include an indoor pool, hot tub, meeting facilities, complimentary continental breakfast, and 24-hour coffee service. All rooms offer queen beds or king beds, and coffee makers.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. The majority of the hotel guests consist of tourists or overnight travelers. The Company considers its primary competition to be the Pine Barn Inn in Danville, PA.
Hampton Inn & Suites, Hershey, Pennsylvania
Description. The Hampton Inn & Suites is located at 749 East Chocolate Avenue in Hershey, PA. The hotel opened in September 1999 and has 110 rooms of which 35 are suites. The hotel is located near all of the major attractions in Hershey including the amusement park and the Hershey chocolate factory. Amenities include an indoor pool, exercise room, hot tub, meeting facilities, complimentary continental breakfast and 24-hour coffee.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. The majority of the hotel guests consist of tourists and overnight travelers. The hotel's close proximity to all Hershey attractions makes this property especially attractive to leisure travelers. The hotel's primary competitors are the Hilton Garden Inn, Comfort Inn, Holiday Inn Express and Springhill Suites.
Holiday Inn, Milesburg, Pennsylvania
Description. The Holiday Inn, Milesburg/State College, Pennsylvania is located at Exit 23, I-80 and US 50 North. The hotel opened in 1977 as a Sheraton and was completely renovated in 1992. In 1996, the hotel was converted into a Holiday Inn. It is a 118-room, full service hotel with a full service restaurant and cocktail lounge. Amenities include an outdoor pool as well as banquet and meeting facilities for 220 people.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 20% of the hotel's business is related to commercial activity from local businesses and demand generated by local businesses. Approximately 80% of the hotel's business consists of leisure travelers visiting the many tourist attractions around State College and I-80. We consider this hotel's primary competition to be the Best Western in Milesburg, Pennsylvania.
Holiday Inn Hotel and Conference Center, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
Description. The Holiday Inn Hotel and Conference Center, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania is located at the intersection of the Pennsylvania Turnpike exit 18 and Interstate 83, ten minutes from downtown, Harrisburg International Airport and Hershey Park. The hotel opened in 1970 as a Sheraton Inn and was converted to a Ramada Inn in 1984. It was completely renovated and converted to a Holiday Inn in September 1995. This hotel has 196 deluxe guest units and is a full service hotel, including a full service restaurant as well as a nightclub. Amenities include an indoor tropical courtyard with a pool and Jacuzzi as well as a banquet and conference facility for up to 700 people.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 40% of the hotel's business is related to commercial activity from local businesses. The remainder of the hotel's business consists of overnight travelers visiting Hershey and Harrisburg. We consider this hotel's primary competition to be the Radisson Penn Harris in Camp Hill, Pennsylvania.
Holiday Inn Express, Duluth, GA
Description. The Holiday Inn Express, Gwinnett Place Mall is located just off Pleasant Hill Road and Interstate 85 at exit 40. Opened in June 1996, this 68-room hotel features spacious guestrooms equipped with a king size bed or two double beds. This hotel features an outdoor pool along with a well-equipped fitness center. Meeting space is also available and accommodates up to 50 people.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Numerous local business parks in Duluth, Norcross and Lawrenceville play a vital role in the hotels success. Companies such as Scientific Atlanta, Primerica Financial Services, NCR, Motorola, Hitatchi, and Lucent Technologies all have major offices in the area and use this hotel frequently for room nights and meeting space. The Gwinnett Civic and Cultural Center and the millions of Priority Club members worldwide are also very solid contributors of room nights throughout the year. We consider the hotel's primary competitors to be the Holiday Inn Express, the Hampton Inn & Suites, the Courtyard Gwinnett Mall and the Fairfield Inn.
Holiday Inn Express & Suites, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
Description. The Holiday Inn Express & Suites, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, is located at 5680 Allentown Boulevard and is easily accessible from Interstates 81 & 83. The hotel, which opened in August 1998 as a Clarion Inn and Suites, is a 77-room limited service hotel. Amenities include an outdoor pool, meeting facilities, complimentary continental breakfast, and 24-hour coffee. All rooms have one king bed or two queen beds. Jacuzzi suites are available and some rooms also have refrigerators and microwaves.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 40% of the hotel's business is comprised of business travelers, 30% is related to group business, 20% is leisure travelers, and 10% is government business. The Company considers its primary competition the Best Western and the Baymont Inn both located in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.
Holiday Inn Express, Hershey, Pennsylvania
Description. The Holiday Inn Express, Hershey, Pennsylvania is located on Walton Avenue, one and one half miles from Hershey Park. The hotel, which opened in October 1997, is an 85-room limited service hotel. Amenities include an indoor pool, hot tub, fitness center, business service center, meeting facility, complimentary continental breakfast and 24-hour coffee. All rooms have one king bed or two queen beds and some rooms have refrigerators, coffee makers and microwaves.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 30% of the hotel's business is related to commercial activity from local business. The hotel's group business, which accounts for approximately 5% of its business, is generated from area institutions, local weddings and local social and sporting events. The remainder of the hotel's business consists of transient guests, visitors to area residents and demand generated by the hotel's proximity to Hershey Park. We consider this hotel's primary competition to be the Comfort Inn in Hershey, Pennsylvania.
Holiday Inn Express, New Columbia, Pennsylvania
Description. The Holiday Inn Express, New Columbia, Pennsylvania is located at the intersection of Interstate 80 and Route 15. The hotel, which opened in December 1997, is an 81-room limited service hotel. Amenities include an indoor pool, hot tub, fitness center, meeting facility, complimentary continental breakfast and 24-hour coffee. All rooms have one king bed or two queen beds, some Jacuzzi suites are available and some rooms have refrigerators, coffee makers and microwaves. The Holiday Inn Express in New Columbia, Pennsylvania was ranked number one in its region according to GSTS (Guest Satisfaction Tracking System), for February and March of 1998. This award recognizes the Holiday Inn Express in New Columbia as the leader in guest satisfaction and product service out of 32 other Holiday Inns and Holiday Inns Express in the Eastern region.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 80% of the hotel's business is related to commercial activity from local business. As a result of its proximity to ski resorts and nearby tourist attractions, recreational travelers generate approximately 10% of the hotel's business. The remainder of the hotel's business consists of overnight travelers and visitors to area residents. We consider this hotel's primary competition to be the Comfort Inn in New Columbia, Pennsylvania.
Sleep Inn, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Description. The Sleep Inn is located six miles from the Pittsburgh International Airport and thirteen miles from downtown Pittsburgh. This hotel was constructed in 1998 and has 143 guest rooms. The hotel's amenities include an indoor pool, fitness center, an 800-square foot conference facility, and a complimentary breakfast.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. The majority of the hotel's business consists business travelers, leisure travelers and airline employees utilizing the Pittsburgh International Airport. The hotel's primary competitors are the Holiday Inn and Comfort Inn located near the airport.
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to each of our hotels:
_______________
(1) This hotel opened in October 1997 and, thus, the data shown for 1997 represent approximately three months of operations. (2) This hotel opened in December 1997 and, thus, the data shown for 1997 represent approximately one month of operations. (3) This hotel opened in June 1997 and, thus, the data shown for 1997 represent approximately seven months of operations. (4) This hotel opened in September 1996 and, thus, the data shown for 1996 represent approximately four months of operations. (5) This hotel opened in September 1998 and, thus, the data shown for 1998 represents approximately four months of operations. (6) This hotel was converted to a Holiday Inn in September 1995 and, thus, the data shown for 1995 represent approximately four months of operations. (7) This hotel opened in May 1998 and, thus, the data shown for 1998 represent approximately eight months of operations. (8) This hotel opened in August 1999, and, thus, the data shown for 1999 represent approximately five months of operations. (9) This hotel opened in August 1998 and, thus, the data shown for 1998 represent approximately five months of operations. (10) This hotel opened in September 1999 and, thus, the data shown for 1999 represent approximately four months of operations. (11) This hotel opened in April 1998 and, thus, the data shown for 1998 represent approximately nine months of operations.
(12) This hotel opened in May 1998 and, thus, the data shown for 1998 represent approximately eight months of operations. (13) This hotel opened in July 1998 and, thus, the data shown for 1998 represent approximately six months of operations.
The Percentage Leases
The following summary is qualified in its entirety by the actual percentage leases, the form of which has been filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K.
Our hotels are operated by HHMLP and Noble pursuant to percentage leases. We intend to lease future acquired hotels to operators, including both our current lessees and other third party operators. We believe that future leases with our current lessees generally will be similar to the current percentage leases. Future leases with other third party operators may or may not be similar to the current percentage leases. Our board of trustees will negotiate the terms and provisions of each future lease, depending on the purchase price paid, economic conditions and other factors deemed relevant at the time.
Each percentage lease with HHMLP has an initial non-cancelable term of five years. All, but not less than all, of our current percentage leases with HHMLP may be extended for an additional five-year term at HHMLP's option. At the end of the first extended term, HHLP, at its option, may extend some or all of the current percentage leases for an additional five-year term. The percentage leases are subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of defaults thereunder and certain other events described therein.
Each percentage lease with Noble has an initial non-cancelable term of three years. All, but not less than all, of our current percentage leases with Noble may be extended for an additional three-year term at Noble's option. At the end of the first extended term, Noble and HHMLP may extend some or all of the current percentage leases for an additional three-year term. The percentage leases are subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of defaults thereunder and certain other events described therein.
The percentage leases with HHMLP generally provide for HHMLP to pay in each calendar quarter the greater of the base rent or percentage rent. The percentage rent for each hotel is comprised of (i) a percentage of room revenues up to a threshold, (ii) a percentage of room revenues in excess of the first threshold but less than a second incentive threshold, (iii) a percentage of room revenues in excess of the second incentive threshold and (iv) a percentage of revenues other than room revenues. The second threshold is designed to provide an incentive to the Lessee to generate higher revenues at each hotel. Until the applicable adjustment date, the rent on newly-developed hotels will be the initial fixed rents applicable to those hotels. After the adjustment date, rent will be computed with respect to the newly-developed hotels based on the percentage rent formulas described herein. HHMLP also will be obligated to pay certain other amounts, including interest accrued on any late payments or charges. Rent is payable quarterly in arrears.
The percentage leases with Noble generally provide for Noble to pay in each calendar mont the greater of the base rent or percentage rent. The percentage rent for each hotel is comprised of (i) a percentage of room revenues up to a threshold, and (ii) a percentage of room revenues in excess of the first threshold. The first threshold is designed to provide an incentive to Noble to generate higher room revenues at each hotel. Noble also will be obligated to pay certain other amounts, including interest accrued on any late payments or charges. Rent is payable monthly in arrears.
The following table sets forth the initial fixed rent, if applicable, the annual base rent and the percentage rent formulas:
_________________
(1) The initial fixed rent or base rent, as applicable, will accrue pro rata during each quarter of each lease year. The Lessee, however, will pay the initial fixed rent or the base rent, as applicable, for each calendar quarter in each lease year based on the ratio of budgeted gross revenues for such calendar quarter to budgeted gross revenues for such lease year.
Item 3.