ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the hotels we owned as of December 31, 2001.
CLARION SUITES, PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Clarion Suites, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania is located at 1010 Race Street, one half block from the newly-developed Philadelphia convention center and six blocks from the Independence Hall historic district and the Liberty Bell. The hotel is located in the historic Bentwood Rocking Chair Company building, which was constructed in 1896 and converted to a Quality Suites hotel in the 1980s. The hotel was purchased by some of our executive officers, trustees and their affiliates as a Ramada Suites in 1995 and substantially rehabilitated. These individuals and their affiliates later converted the hotel to a Clarion Suites. The hotel has 96 executive suites with fully-equipped kitchens and an eight-story interior corridor with Victorian style architecture. The hotel has a lounge featuring light fare and a comedy cabaret. Amenities include two large meeting rooms, boardrooms, a fitness room and a complimentary continental breakfast.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 20% of the hotel's business is comprised of leisure travelers and transient guests related to its close proximity to the historic district. The remainder of the hotel's business is due to commercial activity from local businesses and people visiting area residents. We consider our primary competition to be all Center City, Philadelphia hotels.
COMFORT SUITES, DULUTH, GEORGIA
Description. The Comfort Suites, Gwinnett Place Mall is located just off Pleasant Hill Road and Interstate 85 at exit 40. Opened in June 1996, this 85-suite hotel features large spacious guest suites each equipped with a king size bed or two double beds. Amenities include a fitness center, Jacuzzi within a large sunroom, indoor pool and meeting facilities with a 60-person capacity.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Numerous local business parks in Duluth, Norcross and Lawrenceville play a vital role in the hotel's success. Companies such as Scientific Atlanta, Primerica Financial Services, NCR, Motorola, Hitachi, and Lucent Technologies all have major offices in the area and use this hotel frequently for room nights and meeting space. The leisure market is fueled by the Gwinnett Place Mall and many local events. We consider the hotel's primary competitors to be the Holiday Inn Express, the Hampton Inn & Suites, the Courtyard Gwinnett Mall and the Fairfield Inn.
COMFORT INN, HARRISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Comfort Inn, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania is located 8 miles north of Hershey, Pennsylvania at 7744 Linglestown Road off exit 27 of Interstate 81. The hotel opened in May 1998. It is an 81-room limited service hotel. Amenities include an indoor pool, hot tub, fitness center, meeting facilities, complimentary continental breakfast and 24-hour coffee. All rooms have one king bed or two queen beds and some Jacuzzi suites are available.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 25% of the hotel's business is related to commercial activity from local businesses. The hotel's group business, which accounts for approximately 5% of its business, is generated from area institutions, local weddings and local social and sporting events. The remainder of the hotel's business consists of transient and recreational travelers generated by its proximity to Hershey, Pennsylvania. We consider our primary competition to be the Comfort Suites and Holiday Inn in Grantville, Pennsylvania.
HAMPTON INN, PEACHTREE, GEORGIA
Description. This Hampton Inn is located in the Atlanta community of Peachtree City. This 61-room, limited service hotel opened in 1994. A poured concrete structure, this two-story building features the traditional Hampton Inn architecture with metal rooflines and an ample porte-cochere. This hotel features an outdoor pool and has an oversize fitness facility. The hotel has a meeting room that can accommodate 25 persons.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Peachtree City is home to over ten Fortune 500 companies and boasts a two million square foot industrial park. Several major Japanese companies, including Panasonic, Hoshizaki, TDK and Shinsei, are headquartered in Peachtree City. The hotel's primary competitors are the Holiday Inn, Sleep Inn, and Days Inn located in Peachtree City.
HAMPTON INN, NEWNAN, GEORGIA
Description. The Hampton Inn, Newnan, is located in one of Atlanta's fastest growing counties. This 91-room hotel sits adjacent to Interstate I-85 and features traditional Hampton Inn architecture with three floors on poured concrete. This hotel features an outdoor pool, fitness centers, and full-service meeting room.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. The primary demand generators for the Hampton Inn, Newnan, include several major corporations located in the industrial park, which include Yokogawa, Johnson-Yokogawa, Yamaha, Kawasaki, Ryder, Ritchie Brothers, and Southern States Vehicle Auctions. The industrial park is slated for expansion and Coweta County's population has grown by over 40% since 1991. Leisure demand is generated by weddings, festivals, local racetracks and a tourist base. The main competition for this hotel includes the Jameson Inn, Springhill Suites, Comfort Inn, Best Western and Holiday Inn Express.
HAMPTON INN, SELINSGROVE, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Hampton Inn, Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania is located on Pennsylvania Routes 11 and 15. The hotel, which opened in September 1996, is a 75-room, three story, limited service hotel. Amenities include an indoor pool, hot tub, fitness center, meeting facilities, complimentary continental breakfast and 24-hour coffee. All rooms have one king bed or two queen beds, some Jacuzzi suites are available and some rooms have refrigerators, coffee makers and microwaves.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 80% of the hotel's business is related to commercial activity from local businesses. The remainder of the hotel's business consists of pleasure travelers, transient guests and demand generated by the hotel's proximity to area universities and Knoebels Amusement Park. We consider our primary competition to be the Best Western near Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania.
HAMPTON INN, CARLISLE, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Hampton Inn, Carlisle, Pennsylvania is located at the intersection of Route 11 and exit 16 off the Pennsylvania Turnpike. The hotel, which opened in June 1997, is a 95-room limited service hotel. Amenities include an indoor pool, hot tub, fitness center, meeting facilities, complimentary continental breakfast and 24-hour coffee. All rooms have one king bed or two queen beds, some Jacuzzi suites are available and some rooms have refrigerators, coffee makers and microwaves.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 50% of the hotel's business is related to commercial activity from local businesses. The remainder of the hotel's business consists of overnight travelers and general demand generated by the hotel's proximity to the Carlisle Fairgrounds and the Army War College. We consider our primary competition to be the Holiday Inn in Carlisle, Pennsylvania.
HAMPTON INN, DANVILLE, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Hampton Inn, Danville, Pennsylvania, is located at Exit 33 off Interstate 80. The hotel, which opened in September 1998, is a 72-room, three story, limited service hotel. Amenities include an indoor pool, hot tub, fitness center, meeting facilities, complimentary continental breakfast, and 24-hour coffee service. All rooms offer queen beds or king beds, and coffee makers.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. The majority of the hotel guests consist of tourists or overnight business travelers. We consider our primary competition to be several non-franchised hotels located in the surrounding area.
HAMPTON INN AND SUITES, HERSHEY, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Hampton Inn and Suites is located at 749 East Chocolate Avenue in Hershey, Pennsylvania. The hotel opened in September 1999 and has 110 rooms, 35 of which are suites. The hotel is located near all of the major attractions in Hershey, including the amusement park and the Hershey chocolate factory. Amenities include an indoor pool, exercise room, hot tub, meeting facilities, complimentary continental breakfast and 24-hour coffee.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. The majority of the hotel guests consist of tourists and overnight travelers. The hotel's close proximity to all Hershey attractions makes this property especially attractive to leisure travelers. The hotel's primary competitors are the Hilton Garden Inn, Comfort Inn, Holiday Inn Express and Springhill Suites.
HOLIDAY INN HOTEL AND CONFERENCE CENTER, HARRISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Holiday Inn Hotel and Conference Center, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania is located at the intersection of the Pennsylvania Turnpike exit 18 and Interstate 83, ten minutes from downtown, Harrisburg International Airport and Hershey Park. The hotel opened in 1970 as a Sheraton Inn and was converted to a Ramada Inn in 1984. It was completely renovated and converted to a Holiday Inn in September 1995. This hotel has 196 deluxe guest units and is a full
service hotel, including a full service restaurant as well as a nightclub. Amenities include an indoor tropical courtyard with a pool and Jacuzzi as well as a banquet and conference facility for up to 700 people.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 40% of the hotel's business is related to commercial activity from local businesses. The remainder of the hotel's business consists of overnight travelers visiting Hershey and Harrisburg. We consider our primary competition to be the Radisson Penn Harris in Camp Hill, Pennsylvania.
Additional Information Regarding Depreciation. This is our only hotel that generates more than 10% of our revenue. The federal tax basis is $1,238,000. The depreciation method used is Modified Accelerated Recovery System and the depreciation rate is based upon tables issued by the Internal Revenue Service for properties utilizing this depreciation method. The life claimed with respect to this property for purposes of depreciation is 39 years.
HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS, DULUTH, GEORGIA
Description. The Holiday Inn Express, Gwinnett Place Mall is located just off Pleasant Hill Road and Interstate 85 at exit 40. Opened in June 1996, this 68-room hotel features spacious guestrooms equipped with a king size bed or two double beds. This hotel features an outdoor pool along with a well-equipped fitness center. Meeting space is also available and accommodates up to 50 people.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Numerous local business parks in Duluth, Norcross and Lawrenceville play a vital role in the hotel's success. Companies such as Scientific Atlanta, Primerica Financial Services, NCR, Motorola, Hitachi, and Lucent Technologies all have major offices in the area and use this hotel frequently for room nights and meeting space. The Gwinnett Civic and Cultural Center and the millions of Priority Club members worldwide are also solid contributors of room nights throughout the year. We consider the hotel's primary competitors to be the Comfort Suites, the Hampton Inn & Suites, the Courtyard Gwinnett Mall and the Fairfield Inn.
HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS, LONG ISLAND CITY (MIDTOWN TUNNEL), NEW YORK
Description. This Holiday Inn Express is located adjacent to the entrance of the Midtown Tunnel in Long Island City and is within minutes from midtown Manhattan. This 79-room, limited service hotel opened in 2001. A poured concrete structure, this three-story building is conveniently located alongside the Long Island Expressway.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Long Island City is within minutes of midtown Manhattan and is accessible via car or via direct access to the subway line into Times Square. The hotel also serves numerous corporate headquarters and businesses within Queens and is located within six miles of La Guardia airport and within 13 miles of the JFK International Airport. The hotel competes directly with the Best Western and numerous other limited service hotels within Long Island City and Manhattan.
HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS AND SUITES, HARRISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Holiday Inn Express and Suites, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania is located at 5680 Allentown Boulevard and is easily accessible from Interstates 81 and 83. The hotel, which opened in August 1998 as a Clarion Inn and Suites, is a 77-room limited service hotel. Amenities include an outdoor pool, meeting facilities, complimentary continental breakfast, and 24-hour coffee. All rooms have one king bed or two queen beds. Jacuzzi suites are available and some rooms also have refrigerators and microwaves.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 40% of the hotel's business is comprised of business travelers, 30% is related to group business, 20% is leisure travelers, and 10% is government business. We consider our primary competition the Best Western and the Baymont Inn, both located in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.
HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS, HERSHEY, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Holiday Inn Express, Hershey, Pennsylvania is located on Walton Avenue, one and one half miles from Hershey Park. The hotel, which opened in October 1997, is an 85-room limited service hotel. Amenities include an indoor pool, hot tub, fitness center, business service center, meeting
facility, complimentary continental breakfast and 24-hour coffee. All rooms have one king bed or two queen beds and some rooms have refrigerators, coffee makers and microwaves.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 30% of the hotel's business is related to commercial activity from local business. The hotel's group business, which accounts for approximately 5% of its business, is generated from area institutions, local weddings and local social and sporting events. The remainder of the hotel's business consists of transient guests, visitors to area residents and demand generated by the hotel's proximity to Hershey Park. We consider our primary competition to be the Comfort Inn in Hershey, Pennsylvania.
HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS, NEW COLUMBIA, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Holiday Inn Express, New Columbia, Pennsylvania is located at the intersection of Interstate 80 and Route 15. The hotel, which opened in December 1997, is an 81-room limited service hotel. Amenities include an indoor pool, hot tub, fitness center, meeting facility, complimentary continental breakfast and 24-hour coffee. All rooms have one king bed or two queen beds, some Jacuzzi suites are available and some rooms have refrigerators, coffee makers and microwaves. The Holiday Inn Express in New Columbia, Pennsylvania is consistently ranked number one in its region for GSTS (Guest Satisfaction Tracking System). This award recognizes the Holiday Inn Express in New Columbia as the leader in guest satisfaction and product service out of 32 other Holiday Inns and Holiday Inns Express in the Eastern region.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 80% of the hotel's business is related to commercial activity from local business. As a result of its proximity to ski resorts and nearby tourist attractions, recreational travelers generate approximately 10% of the hotel's business. The remainder of the hotel's business consists of overnight travelers and visitors to area residents. We consider our primary competition to be the Comfort Inn in New Columbia, Pennsylvania.
SLEEP INN, CORAPOLIS, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Sleep Inn is located six miles from the Pittsburgh International Airport and thirteen miles from downtown Pittsburgh. This hotel was constructed in 1998 and has 143 guest rooms. The hotel's amenities include an indoor pool, fitness center, an 800-square foot conference facility, and a complimentary breakfast.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. The majority of the hotel's business consists business travelers, leisure travelers and airline employees utilizing the Pittsburgh International Airport. The hotel's primary competitors are the Holiday Inn and Comfort Inn located near the airport.
SLEEP INN, KING OF PRUSSIA, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. This Sleep Inn is located just off the Pennsylvania Turnpike and is part of a unique dual branded hotel, the first to feature a Mainstay Suites and Sleep Inn under one roof. This unique property combines many amenities convenient for both the business and leisure traveler. This 87-room limited service hotel opened in 2000.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. This hotel serves both the nearby corporate market as well as the strong leisure demand generators such as the Valley Forge Historic Park, Valley Forge Convention Center and King of Prussia Mall. The hotel is within twenty miles of downtown Philadelphia and serves all of the corporate and leisure demand generators of this market. The hotel's primary competition includes the Fairfield Inn, Best Western, Comfort Inn and McIntosh Inn all located within King of Prussia.
MAINSTAY SUITES, KING OF PRUSSIA, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. This Mainstay Suites is located just off the Pennsylvania Turnpike and is part of a unique dual branded hotel, the first to feature a Mainstay Suites and Sleep Inn under one roof. This unique property combines many amenities convenient for both the business and leisure traveler. This 69-room hotel opened in 2000 and the suites include fully-equipped kitchens, a comfortable living room and a spacious work area.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. This hotel serves both the nearby corporate market as well as the strong leisure demand generators such as the Valley Forge Historic Park, Valley Forge Convention Center, King of Prussia Mall. The hotel is within twenty miles of downtown Philadelphia and serves all of the corporate and leisure demand generators of this market. The hotel's primary competition includes the Fairfield Inn, Best Western, Comfort Inn and McIntosh Inn located within King of Prussia.
THE PERCENTAGE LEASES
Our hotels are operated by our lessees, HHMLP and Noble, pursuant to percentage leases. We intend to lease any hotels acquired in the future to operators, including both our lessees and operators unaffiliated with our lessees. Future leases with our lessees generally will be similar to the percentage leases. Future leases with operators unaffiliated with our lessees may or may not be similar to the percentage leases. We will negotiate the terms and provisions of each future lease, depending on the purchase price paid, economic conditions and other factors deemed relevant at the time.
Each percentage lease with HHMLP has an initial non-cancelable term of five years. All, but not less than all, of these leases may be extended for an additional five-year term at HHMLP's option. At the end of the first extended term, HHMLP, at its option, may extend some or all of the leases for an additional five-year term. The percentage leases are subject to early termination upon the occurrence of defaults thereunder and certain other events described therein.
Each percentage lease with Noble has an initial non-cancelable term of three years. These leases may be extended for an additional three-year period at Noble's option and upon agreement by both parties for an additional three-year period.
The percentage leases are designed to allow us to participate in growth in revenues at our hotels. The percentage lease formulas are based on certain projections including projected revenues for the newly-developed and newly-renovated hotels. We can give no assurance that future revenues for the hotels will be consistent with prior performance or the estimates. With respect to hotels subject to purchase price adjustment, until the purchase price adjustment dates the rent is a fixed annual rent payable quarterly. After the adjustment dates, rent will be computed based on a percentage of revenues of those hotels. These percentage leases generally provide for the lessees to pay in each month or calendar quarter the greater of a base rent or percentage rent. The percentage rent for each hotel leased to HHMLP is comprised of:
- a percentage of room revenues up to a certain threshold amount,
- a percentage of room revenues in excess of the first threshold but less than a second incentive threshold,
- a percentage of room revenues in excess of the second incentive threshold and
- a percentage of revenues other than room revenues.
The percentage rent for each hotel leased to Noble is comprised of:
- a percentage of room revenues up to an incentive threshold and
- a percentage of room revenues above this threshold amount.
The incentive thresholds are designed to provide incentive to our lessees to generate higher revenues at each hotel by reducing the percentage of revenue paid as rent above certain thresholds. In the case of any newly-renovated hotels or newly-developed hotels, our lessees pay a fixed rent until an adjustment date, after which our lessees pay the greater of a base rent or percentage rent.
The following table sets forth (i) room revenue, (ii) other revenue, (iii) the fixed rent, if applicable, (iv) the annual base rent and (v) the percentage rent formulas:
Other than real estate and personal property taxes; ground lease rent (where applicable); the cost of certain furniture, fixtures and equipment; certain capital expenditures; and property and casualty insurance premiums, all
of which are our obligations, the percentage leases require our lessees to pay the operating expenses of the hotels (including insurance other than property and casualty insurance, all costs, expenses, utility and other charges incurred in the operation of the hotels) during the term of the percentage leases. The percentage leases also provide for rent reductions and abatements in certain cases in the event of damage, destruction or a partial taking of any of our hotels.
Under the percentage leases, we make available to our lessees for the replacement and refurbishment of furniture, fixtures and equipment and other capital improvements, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, when and as deemed necessary by the lessees, an amount equal to 4% (6% for the Holiday Inn Hotel and Conference Center, Harrisburg, PA) of gross revenues per quarter on a cumulative basis. Our obligation will be carried forward to the extent that the lessees have not expended such amount, and any unexpended amounts will remain our property upon termination of the percentage leases. Other than as described above, our lessees are responsible for all repair and maintenance of the hotels and any capital improvements thereto.
Our lessees, at their expense, may make non-capital and capital additions, modifications or improvements to the hotels, provided that such action does not significantly alter the character or purposes of the hotels or significantly detract from the value or operating efficiencies of the hotels. All of these alterations, replacements and improvements are subject to all the terms and provisions of the percentage leases and will become our property upon termination of the leases. We own substantially all personal property (other than inventory, linens and other non-depreciable personal property) not affixed to, or deemed a part of, the real estate or improvements on the hotels, except to the extent that ownership of such personal property would cause the rent under a percentage lease not to qualify as "rents from real property" for REIT income test purposes.
We are responsible for paying or reimbursing our lessees for real estate and personal property taxes on our hotels (except to the extent that personal property associated with the hotels is owned by the lessees), and all premiums for property and casualty insurance. Our lessees are required to pay for all other insurance on the hotels, including comprehensive general public liability, workers' compensation and other insurance appropriate and customary for properties similar to our hotels, and to name us as an additional named insured.
Our lessees are not permitted to sublet all or any part of our hotels or assign their interest under any of the percentage leases without our prior written consent. No assignment or subletting will release our lessees from any of their obligations under the percentage leases.
In the event of damage to or destruction of any hotel, covered by insurance, that renders the hotel unsuitable for its primary intended use, the percentage lease will terminate as of the date of the casualty, neither we nor our lessees shall have any further liability under the percentage lease, and we will retain all insurance proceeds. In the event of damage to or destruction of any hotel covered by insurance that does not render that hotel unsuitable for its primary intended use, we (or, at our election, our lessees) will restore the hotel, the percentage lease will not terminate and we will retain all insurance proceeds (if, however, our lessees restore the hotel, the insurance proceeds will be paid out by us to the lessees). If the cost of restoration exceeds the amount of insurance proceeds received by us, we will contribute any excess amounts prior to requiring our lessees to commence work. In the event of damage to or destruction of any hotel not covered by insurance, whether or not such damage or destruction renders the hotel unsuitable for its primary intended use, we at our option either (i) will restore the hotel at our cost and expense and the percentage lease will not terminate or (ii) will terminate the percentage lease and neither we nor our lessees shall have any further liability under the percentage lease. Any damage or destruction notwithstanding, and provided the percentage lease has not been terminated, our lessees' obligation to pay rent will remain unabated by any damage or destruction that does not result in a reduction of gross revenues at the hotel. If any damage or destruction results in a reduction of such gross revenues, we will receive all loss of income insurance and our lessees will not have an obligation to pay rent in excess of the amount of percentage rent, if any, realizable from gross revenues generated by the operation of the hotel during the existence of such damage or destruction.
In the event of a total condemnation of any of our hotels, or in the event of a partial taking that renders the hotel unsuitable for its primary intended use, either we or our lessees will have the option to terminate the relevant percentage lease as of the date of taking, and we and our lessees will be entitled to their shares of the condemnation award in accordance with the provisions of the percentage lease. In the event of a partial taking that does not render the hotel unsuitable for its primary intended use, we (or, at our option, our lessees) will restore the untaken portion of the hotel to a complete
architectural unit and we shall contribute the cost of such restoration in accordance with the provisions of the percentage lease. In the event of a partial taking, the base rent will be abated taking into consideration, among other factors, the number of usable rooms, the amount of square footage, or the revenues affected by the partial taking.
Events of default under the percentage leases include, among others, the following:
(i) the failure by our lessees to pay base rent, percentage rent (or, fixed rent, as applicable) or any additional charges when due and the continuation of such failure for a period of 10 days after receipt by our lessees of notice from us that the same has become due and payable, provided that we shall not be required to give any such notice more than twice in any lease year and that any third or subsequent failure by our lessees during such lease year to make any payment of base rent or percentage rent (or, fixed rent, as applicable) on the date the same becomes due and payable shall constitute an immediate event of default;
(ii) the failure by our lessees to observe or perform any other term of a percentage lease and the continuation of such failure for a period of 30 days after receipt by our lessees of notice from us thereof, unless: (A) such failure cannot be cured within such period and our lessees commences appropriate action to cure such failure within such 30-day period and thereafter acts, with diligence, to correct such failure within such time as is necessary, provided in no event shall such period exceed 120 days, which 120-day period shall cease to run during any period that a cure of such failure is prevented by certain unavoidable delays and shall resume running upon the cessation of such unavoidable delay; and (B) such failure does not result in a notice or declaration of default under any material contract or agreement to which we or any affiliate thereof is a party or by which any of our assets are bound;
(iii) if our lessees shall file a petition in bankruptcy or reorganization pursuant to any federal or state bankruptcy law or any similar federal or state law; shall be adjudicated a bankrupt; shall make an assignment for the benefit of creditors; shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due; if a petition or answer proposing the adjudication of our lessees as a bankrupt or their its reorganization pursuant to any federal or state bankruptcy law or any similar federal or state law shall be filed in any court and our lessees shall be adjudicated a bankrupt and such adjudication shall not be vacated or set aside or stayed within 60 days after the entry of an order in respect thereof; if a receiver of our lessees or of the whole or substantially all of the assets of our lessees shall be appointed in any proceeding brought by our lessees; or if any such receiver, trustee or liquidator shall be appointed in any proceeding brought against our lessees and shall not be vacated or set aside or stayed within 60 days after such appointment;
(iv) if our lessees liquidate or dissolve; begin proceedings toward such liquidation or dissolution, or in any manner cease to do business or permit the sale or divestiture of substantially all of their assets;
(v) if the estate or interest of our lessees in the percentage lease or any part thereof is voluntarily or involuntarily transferred, assigned, conveyed, levied upon or attached in any proceeding (for this purpose, a change in control of our lessees constitutes an assignment of the lease);
(vi) if our lessees voluntarily discontinue operations of any of our hotels except as a result of damage, destruction or condemnation;
(vii) if the franchise license with respect to any of our hotels is terminated by the franchisor as a result of any action or failure to act by our lessees or their agents, other than the failure to complete improvements required by a franchisor because our operating partnership fails to pay the costs of such improvements; or
(viii) the occurrence of an event of default occurs under any other percentage lease between us and our lessees.
If an event of default occurs and continues beyond any curative period, we will have the option of terminating the percentage lease and any or all other percentage leases by giving our lessees 10 days' written notice of the date for
termination of the percentage leases and, unless such event of default is cured prior to the termination date set forth in such notice, the percentage leases shall terminate on the date specified in our notice and the lessees shall be required to surrender possession of the affected hotels.
In the event we enter into an agreement to sell or otherwise transfer one of our hotels to a third party, we have the right to terminate the percentage lease with respect to such hotel if within six months after the closing of such sale we either (i) pay our lessee the fair market value of our lessees' leasehold interest in the remaining term of the percentage lease to be terminated, or (ii) offer to lease to our lessee one or more substitute hotels on terms that would create a leasehold interest in such hotels with a fair market value equal to or exceeding the fair market value of our lessee's remaining leasehold interest under the percentage lease to be terminated.
Upon notice from our lessees that we have breached any of the leases, we will have 30 days to cure the breach or proceed to cure the breach, which period may be extended in the event of certain specified, unavoidable delays.
All inventory required in the operation of our hotels is and will be purchased and owned by our lessees at their expense. We will have the option to purchase all inventory related to a particular hotel at fair market value upon termination of the percentage lease for that hotel.
ITEM 3.