ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the hotels we owned as of December 31, 2003.
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the hotels we owned through joint ventures with third parties as of December 31, 2003.
A summary of each hotel owned by us or one of our joint ventures follows:
COMFORT INN
HARRISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Comfort Inn, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania is located eight miles north of Hershey, Pennsylvania at 7744 Linglestown Road off exit 27 of Interstate 81. The hotel opened in May 1998. It is an 81-room limited service hotel. Amenities include an indoor pool, hot tub, fitness center, meeting facilities, complimentary continental breakfast and 24-hour coffee. All rooms have one king bed or two queen beds and some Jacuzzi suites are available.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 25% of the hotel's business is related to commercial activity from local businesses. The hotel's group business, which accounts for approximately 5% of its business, is generated from area institutions, local weddings and local social and sporting events. The remainder of the hotel's business consists of transient and recreational travelers generated by its proximity to Hershey, Pennsylvania. We consider our primary competition to be the Comfort Suites and Holiday Inn in Grantville, Pennsylvania.
COMFORT SUITES
DULUTH, GEORGIA
Description. The Comfort Suites, Gwinnett Place Mall is located just off Pleasant Hill Road and Interstate 85 at exit 40. Opened in June 1996, this 85-suite hotel features large spacious guest suites each equipped with a king size bed or two double beds. Amenities include a fitness center, Jacuzzi within a large sunroom, indoor pool and meeting facilities with a 60-person capacity.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Numerous local business parks in Duluth, Norcross and Lawrenceville play a vital role in the hotel's success. Companies such as Scientific Atlanta, Primerica Financial Services, NCR,
Motorola, Hitachi, and Lucent Technologies all have major offices in the area and use this hotel frequently for room nights and meeting space. The leisure market is fueled by the Gwinnett Place Mall and many local events. We consider the hotel's primary competitors to be the Holiday Inn Express, the Hampton Inn & Suites, the Courtyard Gwinnett Mall and the Fairfield Inn.
DOUBLETREE
JFK INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, JAMAICA, NEW YORK
Description. The Doubletree Club, JFK Airport, Jamaica, New York is located 16 miles from Manhattan, and is adjacent to the JFK International Airport. Opened in January 2002, this 110-room hotel features high-speed internet access in all rooms, a 24-hour business center with printers and computers, a fitness room and a full service restaurant.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Located near JFK Airport and close to Manhattan, this hotel's main source of room nights is business travelers and transient leisure travelers utilizing the JFK Airport. The main competitors in the area are the Ramada Plaza JFK, Hampton Inn, Courtyard by Marriott and the Radisson Hotel JFK Airport.
HAMPTON INNS
PEACHTREE, GEORGIA
Description. This Hampton Inn is located in the Atlanta community of Peachtree City. This 61-room, limited service hotel opened in 1994. A poured concrete structure, this two-story building features the traditional Hampton Inn architecture with metal rooflines and an ample porte-cochere. This hotel features an outdoor pool and has a well equipped fitness facility. The hotel has a meeting room that can accommodate 25 persons.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Peachtree City is home to over ten Fortune 500 companies and boasts a two million square foot industrial park. Several major Japanese companies, including Panasonic, Hoshizaki, TDK and Shinsei, are located in Peachtree City. The hotel's primary competitors are the Holiday Inn, Sleep Inn, and Days Inn located in Peachtree City.
NEWNAN, GEORGIA
Description. The Hampton Inn, Newnan is located in one of Atlanta's fastest growing counties. This 91-room hotel sits adjacent to Interstate I-85 and features traditional Hampton Inn architecture with three floors on poured concrete. This hotel features an outdoor pool, fitness centers, and full-service meeting room.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. The primary demand generators for the Hampton Inn, Newnan include several major corporations located in the industrial park, which include Yokogawa, Johnson-Yokogawa, Yamaha, Kawasaki, Ryder, Ritchie Brothers, and Southern States Vehicle Auctions. The industrial park is slated for expansion and Coweta County's population has grown by over 40% since 1991. Leisure demand is generated by weddings, festivals, local racetracks and a tourist base. The main competition for this hotel includes the Jameson Inn, Springhill Suites, Comfort Inn, Best Western and Holiday Inn Express.
SELINSGROVE, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Hampton Inn, Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania is located on Pennsylvania Routes 11 and 15. The hotel, which opened in September 1996, is a 75-room, three story, limited service hotel. Amenities include an indoor pool, hot tub, fitness center, meeting facilities, complimentary continental breakfast and 24-hour coffee. All rooms have one king bed or two queen beds, some Jacuzzi suites are available and some rooms have refrigerators, coffee makers and microwaves.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 80% of the hotel's business is related to commercial activity from local businesses. The remainder of the hotel's business consists of leisure travelers, transient guests and demand generated by the hotel's proximity to area universities and Knoebels
Amusement Park. We consider our primary competition to be the Best Western near Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania.
CARLISLE, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Hampton Inn, Carlisle, Pennsylvania is located at the intersection of Route 11 and exit 16 off the Pennsylvania Turnpike. The hotel, which opened in June 1997, is a 95-room limited service hotel. Amenities include an indoor pool, hot tub, fitness center, meeting facilities, complimentary continental breakfast and 24-hour coffee. All rooms have one king bed or two queen beds, some Jacuzzi suites are available and some rooms have refrigerators, coffee makers and microwaves.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 50% of the hotel's business is related to commercial activity from local businesses. The remainder of the hotel's business consists of overnight travelers and general demand generated by the hotel's proximity to the Carlisle Fairgrounds and the Army War College. We consider our primary competition to be the Holiday Inn in Carlisle, Pennsylvania.
DANVILLE, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Hampton Inn, Danville, Pennsylvania, is located at Exit 33 off Interstate 80. The hotel, which opened in September 1998, is a 72-room, three story, limited service hotel. Amenities include an indoor pool, hot tub, fitness center, meeting facilities, complimentary continental breakfast, and 24-hour coffee service. All rooms offer queen beds or king beds, and coffee makers.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. The majority of the hotel guests consist of tourists or overnight business travelers. We consider our primary competition to be several non-franchised hotels located in the surrounding area.
NEW YORK, NEW YORK (CHELSEA)
Description. The Hampton Inn is a new modern 20 story high rise hotel located in the trendy up-and-coming district of Chelsea in New York City, bordering the West Village and Midtown Manhattan, and is equipped with many modern conveniences. The hotel offers free High-Speed Internet Access, complimentary breakfast and a 100% Satisfaction Guarantee. The grand opening of the hotel was on August 27, 2003.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. We expect that the many businesses located in the district of Chelsea between mid-town and lower Manhattan's financial district will generate guest for this hotel. The surrounding area also includes the Fashion Institute of Technology, the Toy & Gift buildings and the nearby garment district. The hotel is also conveniently located near the Jacob Javits Convention Center and the headquarters for Credit Suisse First Boston. The leisure market is also an important segment fed by the nearby theater district and other attractions in Manhattan. Nearby competing hotels include a Comfort Inn, a Clarion, a Courtyard Marriott, the Giraffe and the Chelsea Savoy hotel.
LINDEN, NEW JERSEY
Description. The Hampton Inn, Linden, New Jersey is located five miles from Newark Liberty International Airport, adjacent to Linden Airport and 25 minutes from New York City. The hotel offers 148 rooms equipped with high speed Internet access and refrigerators. The property also has an Executive Boardroom and meeting room facilities.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. This Hampton Inn benefits from its close proximity to Newark International Airport but also has a strong corporate base from companies with a local presence, such as Merck and other pharmaceutical companies as well as General Motors. The competition is primarily comprised of branded airport hotels such as Comfort Suites, Courtyard Marriott, Wyndham, Best Western and Sheraton.
HAMPTON INN AND SUITES
HERSHEY, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Hampton Inn and Suites is located at 749 East Chocolate Avenue in Hershey, Pennsylvania. The hotel opened in September 1999 and has 110 rooms, 35 of which are suites. The hotel is located near all of the major attractions in Hershey, including the amusement park and the Hershey chocolate factory. Amenities include an indoor pool, exercise room, hot tub, meeting facilities, complimentary continental breakfast and 24-hour coffee.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. The majority of the hotel guests consist of tourists and overnight travelers. The hotel's close proximity to all Hershey attractions makes this property especially attractive to leisure travelers. The hotel's primary competitors are the Hilton Garden Inn, Comfort Inn, Holiday Inn Express and Springhill Suites.
HILTON GARDEN INN
EDISON, NEW JERSEY
Description. The Hilton Garden Inn Edison/Raritan in Edison, New Jersey is located in the Raritan Center Commercial Park and one half mile from the New Jersey Convention and Exhibition Center. The hotel is 20 minutes from downtown Newark, 25 minutes from Newark International Airport and only 30 minutes from Manhattan. The hotel has 132 rooms, 5,000 square feet of meeting space and a restaurant that serves breakfast, lunch and dinner. The hotel also has a 24 hour business center that includes complimentary high-speed Internet, fax and copy machine.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. The typical Hilton Garden Inn, Edison, guest is a corporate traveler visiting a number of business parks in the local area. The Raritan Center is comprised of 108 buildings with over 350 companies in operation. The New Jersey Convention Center is located within the Raritan Center Commercial Park with 131,700 square feet of space. The Metropark Office Park is also located within five miles of the hotel. Two of the largest shopping centers in the area, Menlo Park Mall and Woodbridge Center are located within a few miles of the property. The competition is comprised of Hilton, Sheraton, Clarion, Holiday Inn Express, Marriott Courtyard and Ramada hotels located nearby.
GLASTONBURY, CONNECTICUT
Description. The Hilton Garden Inn, Glastonbury is located seven miles southeast of Hartford, accessible via Connecticut SR-2 exit 6. The hotel opened in 2003 and features 150 rooms, each equipped with a spacious work desk, two phones, voice mail, data ports, as well as complimentary high-speed Internet access. A hospitality center in each guestroom includes a microwave, refrigerator and coffee maker. The hotel has a complimentary 24 hour business center, restaurant, indoor pool, whirlpool, fitness center and 3200 square feet of meeting space.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. The hotel is close to numerous office buildings and industrial parks. Major nearby corporations include Pratt & Whitney, Lowes, Amica Insurance and Ikon Office Solutions. The Hilton Garden Inn, Glastonbury is within walking distance or a short drive from over 35 Hartford South/Glastonbury restaurants and numerous and varied shopping is everywhere in the area, including the Shops at Somerset Square, across the street. Competitors in the area include Sheraton, Crowne Plaza, Wellesley Inn and Residence Inn.
HOLIDAY INN HOTEL AND CONFERENCE CENTER
HARRISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Holiday Inn Hotel and Conference Center, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania is located at the intersection of the Pennsylvania Turnpike exit 18 and Interstate 83, ten minutes from downtown, Harrisburg International Airport
and Hershey Park. The hotel opened in 1970 as a Sheraton Inn and was converted to a Ramada Inn in 1984. It was completely renovated and converted to a Holiday Inn in September 1995. This hotel has 196 deluxe guest units and is a full service hotel, including a full service restaurant as well as a nightclub. Amenities include an indoor tropical courtyard with a pool and Jacuzzi as well as a banquet and conference facility for up to 700 people.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 40% of the hotel's business is related to commercial activity from local businesses. The remainder of the hotel's business consists of overnight travelers visiting Hershey and Harrisburg. We consider our primary competition to be the Radisson Penn Harris in Camp Hill, Pennsylvania.
Additional Information Regarding Depreciation. This is our only hotel that generates more than 10% of our revenue. The federal tax basis is $1,238,000. The depreciation method used is Modified Accelerated Recovery System and the depreciation rate is based upon tables issued by the Internal Revenue Service for properties utilizing this depreciation method. The life claimed with respect to this property for purposes of depreciation is 39 years.
HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS
DULUTH, GEORGIA
Description. The Holiday Inn Express, Gwinnett Place Mall is located just off Pleasant Hill Road and Interstate 85 at exit 40. Opened in June 1996, this 68-room hotel features spacious guestrooms equipped with a king size bed or two double beds. This hotel features an outdoor pool along with a well-equipped fitness center. Meeting space is also available and accommodates up to 50 people.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Numerous local business parks in Duluth, Norcross and Lawrenceville play a vital role in the hotel's success. Companies such as Scientific Atlanta, Primerica Financial Services, NCR, Motorola, Hitachi, and Lucent Technologies all have major offices in the area and use this hotel frequently for room nights and meeting space. The Gwinnett Civic and Cultural Center and the millions of Priority Club members worldwide are also solid contributors of room nights throughout the year. We consider the hotel's primary competitors to be the Comfort Suites, the Hampton Inn & Suites, the Courtyard Gwinnett Mall and the Fairfield Inn.
HERSHEY, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Holiday Inn Express, Hershey, Pennsylvania is located on Walton Avenue, one and one half miles from Hershey Park. The hotel, which opened in October 1997, is an 85-room limited service hotel. Amenities include an indoor pool, hot tub, fitness center, business service center, meeting facility, complimentary continental breakfast and 24-hour coffee. All rooms have one king bed or two queen beds and some rooms have refrigerators, coffee makers and microwaves.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 30% of the hotel's business is related to commercial activity from local business. The hotel's group business, which accounts for approximately 5% of its business, is generated from area institutions, local weddings and local social and sporting events. The remainder of the hotel's business consists of transient guests, visitors to area residents and demand generated by the hotel's proximity to Hershey Park. We consider our primary competition to be the Comfort Inn in Hershey, Pennsylvania.
NEW COLUMBIA, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Holiday Inn Express, New Columbia, Pennsylvania is located at the intersection of Interstate 80 and Route 15. The hotel, which opened in December 1997, is an 81-room limited service hotel. Amenities include an indoor pool, hot tub, fitness center, meeting facility, complimentary continental breakfast and 24-hour coffee. All rooms have one king bed or two queen beds, some Jacuzzi suites are available and some rooms have refrigerators, coffee makers and microwaves. The Holiday Inn Express in New Columbia,
Pennsylvania is consistently ranked number one in its region for GSTS (Guest Satisfaction Tracking System). This award recognizes the Holiday Inn Express in New Columbia as the leader in guest satisfaction and product service out of 32 other Holiday Inns and Holiday Inns Express in the Eastern region.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 80% of the hotel's business is related to commercial activity from local business. As a result of its proximity to ski resorts and nearby tourist attractions, recreational travelers generate approximately 10% of the hotel's business. The remainder of the hotel's business consists of overnight travelers and visitors to area residents. We consider our primary competition to be the Comfort Inn in New Columbia, Pennsylvania.
LONG ISLAND CITY (MIDTOWN TUNNEL), NEW YORK
Description. This Holiday Inn Express is located adjacent to the entrance of the Midtown Tunnel in Long Island City and is within minutes from midtown Manhattan. This 79-room, limited service hotel opened in 2001. A poured concrete structure, this three-story building is conveniently located alongside the Long Island Expressway.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Long Island City is within minutes of midtown Manhattan and is accessible via car or via direct access to the subway line into Times Square. The hotel also serves numerous corporate headquarters and businesses within Queens and is located within six miles of La Guardia airport and within 13 miles of the JFK International Airport. The hotel competes directly with the Best Western and numerous other limited service hotels within Long Island City and Manhattan.
HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS AND SUITES
HARRISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. The Holiday Inn Express and Suites, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania is located at 5680 Allentown Boulevard and is easily accessible from Interstates 81 and 83. The hotel, which opened in August 1998 as a Clarion Inn and Suites, is a 77-room limited service hotel. Amenities include an outdoor pool, meeting facilities, complimentary continental breakfast, and 24-hour coffee. All rooms have one king bed or two queen beds. Jacuzzi suites are available and some rooms also have refrigerators and microwaves.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. Approximately 40% of the hotel's business is comprised of business travelers, 30% is related to group business, 20% is leisure travelers, and 10% is government business. We consider our primary competition the Best Western and the Baymont Inn, both located in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.
MAINSTAY SUITES
FREDERICK, MARYLAND
Description. The Mainstay Suites, Frederick, Maryland is an all-suites extended stay hotel located near the office parks of Frederick and convenient to Baltimore and Washington, D.C. Each suite features a separate living area and fully equipped kitchen and dining area. The property also features a fitness room and indoor pool. There are also several suites with computers available in the room.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. The Frederick market has experienced significant growth over the past five years due to the development of new office parks and governmental agencies due to its proximity to Baltimore and Washington, D.C. Both governmental agencies and private companies utilize this hotel for long-term accommodations for their employees. Tourist attractions in close proximity to Frederick also attract leisure travelers that complement the corporate and governmental business. The primary competition for this hotel comes from the Residence Inn, Frederick and the Courtyard, Frederick.
KING OF PRUSSIA, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. This Mainstay Suites is located just off the Pennsylvania Turnpike and is part of a unique dual branded hotel, the first to feature a Mainstay Suites and Sleep Inn under one roof. This unique property combines many amenities convenient for both the business and leisure traveler. This 69-room hotel opened in 2000 and the suites include fully-equipped kitchens, a comfortable living room and a spacious work area.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. This hotel serves both the nearby corporate market as well as the strong leisure demand generators such as the Valley Forge Historic Park, Valley Forge Convention Center, King of Prussia Mall. The hotel is within twenty miles of downtown Philadelphia and serves all of the corporate and leisure demand generators of this market. The hotel's primary competition includes the Fairfield Inn, Best Western, Comfort Inn and McIntosh Inn located within King of Prussia.
SLEEP INN
KING OF PRUSSIA, PENNSYLVANIA
Description. This Sleep Inn is located just off the Pennsylvania Turnpike and is part of a unique dual branded hotel, the first to feature a Mainstay Suites and Sleep Inn under one roof. This unique property combines many amenities convenient for both the business and leisure traveler. This 87-room limited service hotel opened in 2000.
Guest Profile and Local Competition. This hotel serves both the nearby corporate market as well as the strong leisure demand generators such as the Valley Forge Historic Park, Valley Forge Convention Center and King of Prussia Mall. The hotel is within twenty miles of downtown Philadelphia and serves all of the corporate and leisure demand generators of this market. The hotel's primary competition includes the Fairfield Inn, Best Western, Comfort Inn and McIntosh Inn all located within King of Prussia.
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to each of our hotels:
THE PERCENTAGE LEASES
Eight of our hotels are currently operated by HHMLP pursuant to percentage leases. Each percentage lease with HHMLP has an initial non-cancelable term of five years. HHMLP has agreed not to exercise its option to extend the current lease term with respect to any of the 8 hotels it currently leases. The percentage leases are subject to early termination upon the occurrence of defaults thereunder and certain other events described therein.
The percentage leases are designed to allow us to participate in growth in revenues at our hotels. The percentage lease formulas are based on certain projections including projected revenues for the newly-developed and newly-renovated hotels. We cannot assure you that future revenues for the hotels will be consistent with prior performance or the estimates. With respect to hotels subject to purchase price adjustment, until the purchase price adjustment dates the rent is a fixed annual rent payable quarterly. After the adjustment dates, rent will be computed based on a percentage of revenues of those hotels. These percentage leases generally provide for the lessees to pay in each month or calendar quarter the greater of a base rent or percentage rent. The percentage rent for each hotel leased to HHMLP is comprised of:
- a percentage of room revenues up to a certain threshold amount,
- a percentage of room revenues in excess of the first threshold but less than a second incentive threshold,
- a percentage of room revenues in excess of the second incentive threshold and
- a percentage of revenues other than room revenues.
The incentive thresholds are designed to provide incentive to HHMLP to generate higher revenues at each hotel by reducing the percentage of revenue paid as rent above certain thresholds. In the case of any newly-renovated hotels or newly-developed hotels, our lessees pay a fixed rent until an adjustment date, after which our lessees pay the greater of a base rent or percentage rent.
Under the percentage leases, we make available to our lessees for the replacement and refurbishment of furniture, fixtures and equipment and other capital improvements, determined in accordance with GAAP, when and as deemed necessary by the lessees, an amount equal to 4% and 6% (for limited service and full service hotels respectively) of gross revenues per quarter on a cumulative basis. Our obligation will be carried forward to the extent that the lessees have not expended such amount, and any unexpended amounts will remain our property upon termination of the percentage leases. Other than as described above, our lessees are responsible for all repair and maintenance of the hotels and any capital improvements thereto.
TAXABLE REIT SUBSIDIARIES
In January 2003, the partnership formed a wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiary (TRS), 44 New England Management Company ("44 New England"), to lease certain of the company's hotels. As of January 26, 2004, 44 New England leased 10 of our hotels. As our eight current leases with HHMLP expire, new leases will be formed with 44 New England. HHMLP has agreed to waive its rights to extend the lease terms of these hotels. Additionally, any new acquisitions will be integrated into the TRS operating structure. The company entered into joint venture agreements with CNL Hospitality Partners, LP (CNL) and PRA Glastonbury, LLC in 2003 and established a TRS for each, Hersha CNL TRS Inc. and Hersha PRA TRS, Inc., respectively. Each joint venture TRS leases one property. We believe that transitioning to TRS structures positions us to participate more directly in the operating efficiencies and revenue gains at our hotels.
During the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, certain properties owned by us were under fixed lease agreements with HHMLP. The payments received from some of these fixed leases exceeded the payment that we estimate would have been received had the properties been leased to our TRS. Several of the properties still leased to HHMLP under fixed leases will undergo a repricing per our pre-existing repricing formula described under the heading "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions--Hotel Acquisition Repricing." In the
event that the properties do not achieve forecasted results, the properties will be revalued such that a lower value will be paid for these assets to compensate for the potential decline in income.
MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS
Our TRSs have engaged HHMLP as the property manager for our hotels pursuant to substantially similar management agreements. Each management agreement provides for a five year term and is subject to early termination upon the occurrence of defaults and certain other events described therein. As required under the REIT qualification rules, HHMLP must qualify as an "eligible independent contractor" during the term of the management agreements.
Under the management agreements, HHMLP generally pays the operating expenses of our hotels. All operating expenses or other expenses incurred by HHMLP in performing its authorized duties are reimbursed or borne by our TRS to the extent the operating expenses or other expenses are incurred within the limits of the applicable approved hotel operating budget. HHMLP is not obligated to advance any of its own funds for operating expenses of a hotel or to incur any liability in connection with operating a hotel.
For its services, HHMLP receives a base management fee, and if a hotel meets and exceeds certain thresholds, an additional incentive management fee. The base management fee for a hotel is due monthly and is equal to 3% of the gross revenues associated with that hotel for the related month. The incentive management fee, if any, for a hotel is due annually in arrears on the sixtieth day following the end of each fiscal year and is equal to an amount determined by our TRS and HHMLP prior to the commencement of each fiscal year and is generally based upon the financial performance of the hotel.
HHMLP must from time to time make expenditures for repairs and maintenance as are necessary to keep a hotel in good operating condition. Our TRS or we may elect to, from time to time at its or our expense, make alterations, additions, or improvements (including structural changes or repairs) in or to our hotels.
Under the management agreements, our TRSs retain the right to sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of our hotels. HHMLP may not transfer or assign any of its rights and obligations under a management agreement without the prior written consent of our TRS. On the other hand, our TRSs may transfer or assign their rights and obligations under a management agreement without the consent of HHMLP. However, HHMLP will have the right to terminate the management agreement after receiving notice of such transfer or assignment.
ITEM 3.