ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES As of December 31, 2002 the Company owned or leased coal properties located in Montana, Texas and North Dakota. The properties contain coal reserves and coal deposits. A “coal reserve” is that part of a mineral deposit that could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The Company includes in “coal reserves” 161,000,000 tons that are not fully permitted but that otherwise meet the definition of “coal reserves.” A description of the permitting process and the Company’s assessment of that process as applied to these 161,000,000 tons follows the table below. A “coal deposit” is a coal bearing body, which has been appropriately sampled and analyzed in trenches, outcrops, and drilling to support sufficient tonnage and grade to warrant further exploration stage work. This coal does not qualify as a “coal reserve” until, among other things, a final comprehensive evaluation based upon unit cost per ton, recoverability, and other material factors conclude legal and economic feasibility.
The following table shows the location of the Company’s estimated coal reserves, coal deposits, production in 2002 and other mine information. All of the coal is used in steam boilers to produce electricity.
Summary of Coal Reserves, Deposits, Production
and other Mine Information
as of December 31, 2002
Absaloka
Mine Rosebud
Mine Jewett
Mine Beulah
Mine Savage
Mine
Location Hardin, MT Colstrip, MT Jewett, TX Beulah, ND Savage, MT
Coal Reserves:
(thousands of tons)
Proven (1) 59,602(2) 273,709(2) 107,321 48,997(2) 15,500(2)
Probable (3) 12,253 4,665
Coal Deposits (4)
(thousands of tons) 587,112 234,922
Sulfur Percent (5) .64 .68 1.00 1.04 .49
2002 Annual Production
(thousands of tons) 5,160 10,061 7,105 3,006
Year Opened 1963
# of Draglines 4 plus
bucketwheel
Delivery Rail Truck/Rail/
Conveyer Conveyer Conveyer
/Rail Truck
(1)
Proven coal reserves are reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well-established. In addition, all coal reserves are "assigned" coal reserves: coal that has been committed by the Company to operating mining equipment and plant facilities.
(2)
Includes tons for each mine as described below that are not fully permitted but otherwise meet the definition of "proven" coal reserves.
(3)
Probable reserves are reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling, and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
(4)
All coal deposits have been assigned by the Company to operating mining equipment and plant facilities.
(5)
Percent Sulfur applies to the 2002 production tons.
Absaloka Mine
WRI owns the Absaloka Mine, a surface (open-pit) coal mine located in Big Horn County, Montana and has been the only operator on the property. The mine is located in the upper Sarpy Creek drainage, 35 miles south of Hysham and 30 miles east of Hardin via Route 384. The mine is accessed from Route 384 via County Road 42. Mine facilities consisting of a truck dump, primary and secondary crushers, conveyors, coal storage barn, train loadout, rail loop and support facilities including shop, warehouse, boiler house, deep well and water treatment plant were constructed beginning in late 1972 and completed in early 1974. Power is purchased under a long-term contract with the local utility. The primary excavating machine (completed in 1979) is a Bucyrus-Erie 2570W walking dragline with a bucket capacity of 110 cubic yards and is owned by WRI. The present sustainable mine capacity using the dragline is 7.0 million tons per year; production of 5.2 million tons in 2002 was approximately 74 percent of capacity. Mobile equipment, including loaders, haul trucks, scrapers, dozers, graders, water trucks and fuel truck are owned by WRI’s mining contractor and minority owner, WGI. WRI’s total cost for the foregoing mine facilities incurred through 2002 is approximately $77,000,000. The Company anticipates spending an additional $500,000 no later than 2007 to permit an additional mining area within its present mine plan. WRI does not believe additional exploration or development of this area is necessary other than obtaining future mining permits.
The first unit train coal shipment was loaded July 1, 1974. Initially, coal was produced from the Rosebud-McKay and Robinson coal seams; attempts were also made to recover coal from two thin rider seams identified as the Stray-1 and Stray-2. The Stray-1 is in the overburden 10 to 30 feet above the Rosebud (“overburden” consists of barren or non-commercial materials which overlies the coal seam). The Stray-1 is of erratic structure and quality, and for this reason initial efforts to recover a marketable product were unsuccessful, and it has been excavated as overburden. The Stray-2 underlies the Rosebud-McKay by one to six feet. The Stray 2 is relatively high in ash and sulfur, and for several years it was blended with the primary seams. Such blending resulted in erratic quality, and it was abandoned in 1985. The Robinson coal underlies the Rosebud-McKay coal by 60 to 100 feet.
In 1988, WRI began supplying coal to a new generating unit designed by its customers to burn coal from the Absaloka Mine, but almost immediately severe slagging problems were encountered. The problem was traced to coal from the Robinson seam. The plant owners notified WRI that they would no longer accept Robinson coal, and consequently, mining of the Robinson seam was discontinued in 1990. Hence, the only seam now being mined is the Rosebud-McKay seam, which is actually two seams separated by a thin parting ranging in thickness from a few inches to several feet. The total aggregate coal thickness in the Rosebud-McKay seam averages 32 feet. The coal is subbituminous C grade with an average heating value of 8,700 Btu/lb. and 0.64 percent sulfur as received.
All coal reserves and coal deposits shown in the previous table in the column captioned “Absaloka Mine” are leased by WRI from the Crow Tribe of Indians to exhaustion of the mineable and merchantable coal in the currently leased acreage. The Company believes that all such deposits and reserves are recoverable through existing facilities with current technology and the Company’s existing infrastructure. These reserves and deposits were estimated to be 799,803,000 tons as of January 1, 1980, based principally upon a report by Intrasearch, Inc., an independent firm of consulting geologists, prepared in February 1980. WRI is evaluating the acquisition of the rights to additional reserves or deposits contiguous to its existing leases. Estimated remaining tons are reduced annually by production in the Rosebud-McKay seam and by the amount of coal in the Robinson, Stray-1 and Stray-2 seams bypassed after mining the Rosebud-McKay seam. Through 2002, approximately 122,635,000 tons of coal have been shipped to customers, primarily in the upper Midwest for use as steam coal. Transportation is arranged and charges are paid by WRI’s customers. There have been no significant problems with operation of the coal handling plant. The only significant operating problem has been spoil stability in high overburden areas.
The mining and reclamation permit application process operates under regulations of the Office of Surface Mining (“OSM”) and the State of Montana under its OSM approved program. Among the requirements are detailed pre-mining inventories of environmental resources including soils, vegetation, wildlife, hydrology and archaeology. The application must include detailed plans for mining, reclamation and protection of hydrological resources. The process includes an exhaustive review of the application for compliance with all applicable regulations. After initial review of the application, the regulatory authority issues a letter reviewing deficiencies in the application to which the applicant responds by revising the application where appropriate. This process of identifying and responding to deficiencies is repeated until all matters are cleared. The decision document and environmental assessment are subject to formal public review, including public hearings if requested. The process typically takes two to four years from the time the initial application is filed.
A total of 3,420 acres have been disturbed by mining. Reclamation is complete on 2,576 acres, with the balance involved in active mining operations. The reclamation bond, which is posted by WRI and is an estimate by the Montana Department of Environmental Quality of total cost to reclaim, is $10,614,000. However, except for a small percentage funded by WRI, WGI is contractually responsible for reclaiming the property, whatever the cost. WGI is contractually obligated to fund a reclamation escrow account established in December 2002 or post an approved security to secure their reclamation obligation. After reclamation is complete, WRI is responsible for maintaining and monitoring the reclaimed property until the bond is released. For the property mined through December 31, 2002, WRI’s estimated future cost of maintaining and monitoring such property prior to bond release is approximately $1,500,000 to $2,000,000.
WRI has chosen not to permit all of the coal reserves in its mine plan because it already has sufficient permitted coal to meet production, given the current rate of mining and demand, through 2008. Of the 59,602,000 tons shown as proven coal reserves in the table above for the Absaloka Mine, 32,351,000 tons are not fully permitted but otherwise meet the definition of “coal reserves”. It is anticipated that an application covering an estimated 32 million tons of unpermitted reserves will be filed in the first half of 2004. Based upon the Company’s current knowledge of the permitting process and the nature of these reserves, the Company believes that there are no matters that would hinder its ability to obtain this mining permit on a timely basis.
Rosebud Mine
WECO was acquired by WML on April 30, 2001. Rosebud Mine coal comes from the Rosebud Seam in the Montana portion of a much larger deposit commonly identified as the Powder River Basin. The Rosebud Mine is a surface (open-pit) coal mine. WECO uses four draglines in a single pass system to uncover one seam of coal. There are three 60 cubic yard capacity draglines purchased in 1975, 1976 and 1980 and one 75 cubic yard dragline purchased in 1983. The draglines use electric power purchased from Montana Power, now Northwestern Energy, under regulated default supply pricing. The machines operate primarily on the highwall side of the pit. Coal is excavated from the seam using 17 to 25 cubic yard electric shovels and diesel powered wheel loaders. Coal is loaded in 120 to 200 ton bottom dump trucks. The trucks haul the coal to one of three crushing facilities where most is loaded directly on conveyors and transported to the four Colstrip units. Both the overburden and coal are drilled and blasted prior to excavation. Other equipment used at the Rosebud Mine includes overburden and coal drills, dozers, water wagons, motor blades, front end loaders, scrapers and numerous support equipment including service trucks, pumps and cranes. The Rosebud Mine has multiple maintenance and support facilities and administration buildings. The mine work force is represented by Local 400 of the IUOE. The Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad transports production to those customers served by rail. The Rosebud Mine is equipped with a loop track and tipple facility capable of loading unit trains at the rate of 4,000 tons per hour.
The Rosebud Mine is located at Colstrip, Montana, 130 miles east of Billings. The Northern Pacific Railroad began mining coal for its steam locomotives at Colstrip in 1924. The railroad produced approximately 44 million tons of coal from these reserves before adapting to diesel locomotives in 1958. In 1959, Montana Power purchased the coal leases, mining machinery and Colstrip town site to produce coal for future thermal generating plants, and for sale to others. The total cost of the mine incurred through 2002 is approximately $194,000,000.
WECO was formed as a wholly owned Montana Power subsidiary in 1966 to operate the Rosebud Mine. Initial production was shipped to Montana Power’s Corette Plant at Billings, and to utilities and municipalities in the upper Midwest. Major coal supply contracts were signed with two upper Midwest utilities in the early 1970‘s and in 1980 contracts were finalized for two new 750-MW mine-mouth generating plants at Colstrip. These long-term contracts provided the foundation for a major expansion of the Rosebud Mine. The mine’s production of 11.7 million tons of coal in 1979 steadily grew to 16 million tons in 1988. The Rosebud Mine has consistently ranked among the largest single coal mines in the nation, based on annual production.
All coal reserves and coal deposits shown in the foregoing table in the column captioned “Rosebud Mine” are in Montana and leased by WECO from the federal government, Great Northern Properties, or the State of Montana. The royalty payable under federal leases adjusts every ten years, and the leases remain in effect as long as minimum commercial quantities of coal are mined. WECO annually mines at least the minimum tonnages required to keep the leases current. Great Northern leases were renewed in 1989 for a term of 30 years, and the royalty payable under these leases adjusts every five years. The state leases remain current as long as commercial quantities are produced or as long as they are under a valid mining permit. These reserves and deposits were estimated to be 560,552,000 tons as of January 1, 1998, based principally upon a reserve study prepared for a Logical Mining Unit Application to the Bureau of Land Management. This reserve study was prepared by the Environmental and Engineering Department of WECO while it was owned by Montana Power. The coal consists exclusively of the Rosebud seam. In 1999, WECO successfully bid on an additional 29,110,000 tons of federal coal and these reserves were added. The Company believes that all held deposits and reserves are recoverable through existing facilities at the Rosebud Mine with current technology and the Company’s existing infrastructure. The coal has an average heating value of 8,500 Btu/lb. and 0.72 percent sulfur as received. Through 2002, approximately 333,078,000 tons of coal have been produced and shipped from the Rosebud Mine to the Colstrip power plants and utility customers in Billings, Montana and the upper Midwest for use as steam coal. Transportation charges are paid by WECO’s customers. There have been no significant problems with operation of the coal handling plant.
A total of 14,328 acres have been disturbed by mining of which reclamation is complete on 6,670 acres, with the balance involved in active mining operations. The reclamation bond, which is posted by WECO and is an estimate of total cost to reclaim, is $135,127,000. After reclamation is complete, WECO is responsible for maintaining and monitoring the reclaimed property until the bond is released. The Company estimates that the total cost to maintain and monitor the reclaimed property until the bond is released will approximate $5,200,000, inclusive of bonding costs.
The permit application process is subject to the regulations of the State of Montana under its OSM approved program. Among the requirements are detailed pre-mining inventories of environmental resources including soils, vegetation, wildlife, hydrology and archaeology. The application must include detailed plans for mining, reclamation and protection of hydrological resources. The process includes an exhaustive review of the application for compliance with all applicable regulations. After initial review of the application, the regulatory authority issues a letter reviewing deficiencies in the application to which the applicant responds by revising the application where appropriate. This process of identifying and responding to deficiencies is repeated until all matters are cleared. The decision document and environmental assessment are subject to formal public review, including public hearings if requested. The process typically takes two to four years from the time the initial application if filed.
WECO has chosen not to permit all of the coal reserves in its mine plan because it already has sufficient coal in its current permitted mine plan given the current rate of mining and demand for its production through 2013. Of the 273,709,000 tons shown as proven coal reserves in the table above for the Rosebud Mine, 78,337,000 tons are not fully permitted but otherwise meet the definition of “coal reserves”. Based upon the Company’s current knowledge of the permitting process and the nature of remaining reserves, the Company believes that there are no matters that would hinder its ability to obtain additional mining permits in the future.
Jewett Mine
NWR owns and leases coal properties for the Jewett Mine, a surface (open-pit) lignite mine in East Texas, approximately half way between Dallas and Houston west of Interstate Highway 45. The properties are located in Leon, Freestone, and Limestone Counties and are accessed on Farm to Market Road 39. The surface and coal leases for the Jewett Mine are all under private ownership. Most leases are for a term of 25 to 35 years although a few extend to 50 years. The term of the primary leases expire from 2004 to 2025 but are renewable if coal production is being conducted in the required radius area. The Jewett Mine was developed pursuant to an agreement with Reliant calling for production of “the most economic 240,000,000 tons” from the project area to supply the nearby Limestone Electric Generating Station. The coal deposit was evaluated through a series of exploration programs, including physical and chemical analysis, according to predetermined criteria. As of December 31, 2002, a total of 132,679,000 tons have been produced and sold leaving 107,321,000 tons remaining under the agreement. The Company believes that all such reserves are recoverable through existing facilities and with the Company’s existing infrastructure.
Mine facilities consist of a truck dump, crusher, conveyors, coal storage, shop/warehouse complex, administrative support buildings, and water treatment facilities. The contract with TGN requires that all equipment and facilities be maintained such that they continue to be serviceable and support production comparable to the original specifications. Total capital cost to develop the mine was approximately $59,000,000 as of December 31, 2002.
The mine has been in continuous operation by NWR since 1985 and consists of four active areas with as many as four lignite seams within each area. Lignite is a dark brown to black combustible mineral formed over millions of years by the partial decomposition of plant material subject to increased pressure and temperature in an airless environment. Lignite is coal with a lower grade and Btu value. Because of its lower heat value, lignite typically can serve only power generating units that are adjacent to the mine. Overburden removal is accomplished with four draglines, a bucketwheel excavator system and/or a truck and shovel fleet. The primary excavating machines consist of three walking draglines with bucket capacities of 84 cubic yards, one walking dragline with a bucket capacity of 128 cubic yards, and one around-the-pit Bucketwheel Excavator System (“BES”). Additional mobile equipment consists of dozers, scrapers, end dump trucks, bottom dump trucks, front-end loaders, and backhoes. The aforementioned equipment is owned by TGN and is provided to NWR at no cost. NWR is obligated to maintain the equipment. Electrical power for the facilities and major stripping equipment is generated by the Brazos River Authority and transferred to the mine site by Navasota Valley Electric Cooperative.
Overburden removal is scheduled 24 hours per day, 7 days per week. Where overburden thickness total exceeds 180 feet, the BES trucks and loaders are utilized to prebench to a 180-foot level. Draglines then work to expose the lignite seams. Depending on overburden depths and seam geometry, the dragline may take as many as two highwall passes and three spoilside passes to complete a pit. Pit widths vary from 100 to 200 feet with a 140-foot pit being normal. Overburden depths vary from 20 to 240 feet. When the draglines cannot uncover sufficient lignite to meet fuel deliveries, additional prebenching below the aforementioned 180-foot level is required. This reduces the amount of dragline overburden, thus increasing lignite release. The BES system operates in a single mine area to reduce the dragline overburden to a predetermined depth. Once the lignite is exposed it is removed utilizing backhoes, front-end loaders, and 150-ton bottom dump coal haulers. The lignite seams vary in thickness from 1.5 feet to 12 feet. The coal haulers transport the lignite to the coal handling facilities where it is crushed and delivered to the power plant by means of a conveyor belt.
The first ton of coal from the Jewett Mine was sold in July 1985. The four primary seams are named the #3, #4, #5, and #6 seams. Interburden ranging from one foot to 70 feet in thickness separates them. The total aggregate coal thickness from all four seams is approximately 15 feet. All of the coal mined from the Jewett Mine is shipped approximately one mile, via conveyor, from the crushing facility located at the mine to LEGS. The coal has an average heating value of 6,670 Btu/lb. and 1.00 percent sulfur as received.
Initially, the mine operated with the three Marion 8200 walking draglines. In 1990, due to increased overburden depth, the BES was put into operation. In 1997, due to increased depth of overburden and increased delivery demands by LEGS, a fourth dragline, the Marion 8750, was put into operation. On average, the mine has sold 7.8 million tons of coal per year for 17 years.
Exploration work for the project area was initiated in the late 1970s, and NWR engineers and geologists prepared initial reserve estimates while Montana Power owned NWR. NWR engineers and geologists initially estimated the coal deposits and reserves. To further define the coal reserve, exploration drilling was utilized to delineate that part of the deposit that met an economic depth and strip-ratio. Based on the economic depth and strip-ratio, coring was conducted on 1000-foot centers and then on 500-foot centers to develop the proven reserves. Core samples were taken on 1000-foot centers and were analyzed for physical and chemical parameters. Electronic logs were taken on 500-foot centers. Additional drilling was conducted to further define the limits of the coal seams. As of December 31, 2002, all planned exploration is complete for the life-of-mine coal reserve.
Reclamation activities follow mining. The dragline spoils are regraded to an approximate original contour and are covered with a minimum of four feet of suitable plant growth material. The area is then seeded and mulched.
To date, a total of 12,765 acres have been disturbed by mining of which the mine has regraded 11,715 acres and revegetated 8,356 acres; at any given time there are approximately 600 to 900 acres disturbed in association with the pit, prebench and unregraded spoil. The reclamation bond of $15,000,000, which is posted by NWR and by a self-bond of $50,000,000 from CenterPoint Energy Houston Electric, a subsidiary of CNP, exceeds the total estimated cost to reclaim the mine during and at the end of the life of the mine. Through June 2002, NWR performed the reclamation work and the cost was passed through to the customer. This changed in July 2002 in that NWR will perform the reclamation work on current mining including “final” pits in each area as part of its cost of mining. Final reclamation of the Jewett Mine, at the end of its useful life, is the financial responsibility of TGN and CNP.
The surface coal mine permitting process is regulated by the Railroad Commission of Texas (“RCT”) under its OSM approved program. Some of the information required for permitting includes detailed premining inventories of environmental resources including soils, vegetation, wildlife, hydrology and archaeology. The application must include detailed plans for mining, reclamation and protection of hydrological resources. The permit preparation process takes in excess of a year. The regulatory review and approval process includes an exhaustive review of the application for compliance with all applicable regulations. After initial review of the application, the regulatory authority issues a letter reviewing deficiencies in the application to which the applicant responds by revising the application where appropriate. This process of identifying and responding to deficiencies is repeated until all matters are cleared. The decision document and environmental assessment are subject to formal public review, including public hearings if requested. The process typically takes eighteen months to two years from the time the initial application is filed with the RCT.
A permit term encompasses five years of mining. Jewett currently holds two mining permits that cover 100% of the proven coal reserves in the table above. Permit 32E is a renewal of the same general permit area that has been in place and actively mined since 1985; it encompasses 21,324 acres. The current term for 32E is July 1998 through July 2003. The permit renewal submittal was provided to the RCT in the first quarter of 2002. The renewal term will be from the date of the RCT approval (but will not affect current operations if delayed past July 2003) through July 2008. Permit 47 is a new permit area encompassing approximately 9,341 acres; it is located contiguous to Permit 32E. The current term for Permit 47 is December 2001 through December 2006.
Prior to any surface mining activity, all surface improvements are removed or relocated from the immediate area. These include buildings, utilities, oil/gas wells and pipelines, county roads, railroads, and public highways. Drainage control facilities such as sedimentation ponds and diversions are constructed during this phase of operations to control runoff from all areas to be disturbed during mining. Clearing and grubbing takes place in advance of overburden removal operations and includes stacking and burning of trees and brush. Dewatering/depressurization wells are installed a minimum of one year in advance of mining activities for the purpose of ground water control. Trucks and loaders selectively handle suitable plant growth material in advance of mining. A minimum of four feet of this suitable plant growth material is transported to the regraded areas of the spoil to reconstruct the surface area for revegetation.
Beulah Mine
DWC operates the Beulah Mine in Beulah, North Dakota. This property was purchased as of April 30, 2001 from Knife River Corporation. The mine and support facilities are located between the two mining areas and service both. Total capital cost to develop the mine was approximately $73,000,000 as of December 31, 2002. Mine facilities consist of a truck dump hopper, primary and secondary crushers, conveyors, train loadout, railroad spur, coal storage bin and coal stockpile. The coal preparation facilities will prepare the coal for transport via conveyor to the Coyote Generating station or for loading onto railroad cars for shipment to the Heskett Generating station. There is no wash plant at this mine site. The support facilities include several maintenance shops, equipment storage buildings, warehouse, employee change houses and mine office and trailers. Power for the mine is purchased from the local electric utility. The two primary excavating machines are a walking dragline with a bucket capacity of 17 cubic yards, which operates in the West Brush Creek area, and a walking dragline with a bucket capacity of 84 cubic yards, which removes overburden at East Beulah. Additional major equipment utilized at the mine include a Caterpillar 5130 track excavator and three end-dump trucks, a coal loading shovel, rubber tired loaders, haul trucks, scrapers, dozers, motor graders, water trucks, and coal drills.
The Beulah Mine is a surface (open-pit) coal mine located in Mercer and Oliver Counties, North Dakota. The mine is approximately 2 miles south of Beulah. The mine is accessed from North Dakota Highway 49. There are currently two separate mining permits that cover the Beulah Mine. These permits are referred to as the West Brush Creek area and the East Beulah area. Acreage contained within the current permit area for West Brush Creek amounts to approximately 1,030 acres. The Company has private and state surface leases that cover the permit area. The East Beulah current permit area contains approximately 4,289 acres. All surface rights are leased from private owners, with the Company having federal, private and state coal leases which expire from 2009 to 2019. The mine has been open at the current location since 1963 and the coal from this operation supplies the fuel requirements for the adjacent Coyote Generating Station and the Heskett Generating Station in Mandan, North Dakota.
The estimated total owned and leased coal reserves at this site were approximately 61,250,000 tons at December 31, 2002. The Company believes all of these reserves are recoverable through existing facilities with current technology and existing infrastructure. Reserves were estimated to be 73,010,000 tons as of January 1, 1999, based principally upon a report prepared by Weir International Mining Consultants, an independent consulting firm. Presently, the mine produces approximately 3,000,000 tons of coal annually.
Of the lignite beds, the Beulah-Zap Seam is the most consistent in quality, lateral continuity and thickness. The Beulah-Zap seam, ranging in thickness from 10 to 12 feet, is the primary focus of mining in both reserve areas. Several other seams are contained within the stratigraphic package above and below the Beulah-Zap. Among these is the Schoolhouse seam, which lies 45-50 feet above the Beulah-Zap and is also being mined in the East Beulah area. The Schoolhouse seam averages 6 feet in thickness. A lower bench of the Beulah-Zap seam, referred to as the Beulah-Zap lower seam, or BZ-2, is also being mined in the East Beulah mine area. The BZ-2 seam ranges in thickness from 2 to 4 feet. Three individual seams are mined in the East Beulah area and only one in the West Brush Creek area, all with varying in-place quality characteristics. These coals require blending in order to assure consistent product quality. At the present time, nearly all coal blending is conducted in-pit through the scheduling of daily production from different areas and different seams. A quality control engineer is assigned the task of determining the in-place quality parameters and scheduling production accordingly. Estimated overall quality of the coal at the Beulah Mine is an average heating value of 7,000 Btu/lb and 1.00 percent sulfur as received.
Of the 5,319 permitted acres, 4,136 acres have been disturbed by mining. Reclamation has been completed on 2,692 acres, with the balance involved in active mining operations. The reclamation bond, which is posted by the Company and is an estimate of the total cost to reclaim the mine, is $10,696,000. The North Dakota Public Service Commission does not require mining operations to bond for facility removal estimated to be $400,000 or for the post-mining reclamation monitoring period. After all reclamation has been completed, the Company is responsible for maintaining and monitoring the reclaimed property until the bond is released, which is a minimum of 10 years after the final seeding has occurred. The Company estimates the cost of maintaining and monitoring the property prior to bond release will be $1,500,000.
Of the total reserves shown, approximately 4.0 million tons in the West Brush Creek area and 5.0 million tons at East Beulah are fully permitted at this time. Based on the current estimated production rates of 500,000 and 2,500,000 tons respectively, there are roughly 8 and 2 years, respectively, remaining under the current permitted mine plans. Of the 48,997,000 tons shown as proven coal reserves in the table above for the Beulah Mine, 39,997,000 tons are not fully permitted but otherwise meet the definition of “coal reserves”. The permit application process is subject to the regulations of the OSM and the State of North Dakota under its OSM approved program which is regulated by the North Dakota Public Service Commission. Among the requirements are detailed pre-mining inventories of environmental resources including soils, vegetation, wildlife, hydrology and archaeology. The application must include detailed plans for mining, reclamation and protection of the hydrological resources. The process includes an exhaustive review of the application for compliance with all applicable regulations. After initial review of the application, the regulatory authority issues a letter outlining deficiencies in the application to which the applicant responds by revising the application where appropriate. This process of identifying and responding to deficiencies is repeated until all matters are addressed. The decision document and environmental assessment are subject to formal public review, including public hearing if requested. This process can take anywhere from one up to three years from the time the initial application is filed. Based upon the Company’s current knowledge of the permitting process and the environmental issues which were associated with the permitted reserves, the Company believes that there are no matters that would hinder its ability to obtain any mining permits in the future. The Company is preparing a permit revision for the East Beulah area that will be submitted in the first quarter of 2003 to add approximately 700 acres that will extend the tons permitted to accommodate five years’ production at current rates.
Savage Mine
Savage is the current operator of the Savage Mine in Eastern Montana. This property was also purchased in 2001 from Knife River Corporation. Mine facilities consist of a truck dump, near-pit crushing unit, conveyors, and coal stockpile; support facilities include a shop, warehouse and mine office. Total capital cost to develop the mine was approximately $7,000,000 as of December 31, 2002. There is no wash plant at this mine site. Power for the mine is purchased from the local electric utility. The primary excavating machine is a walking dragline with a bucket capacity of 12 cubic yards. Additional major equipment utilized at the mine include a 992 front-end-loader, haul trucks, scraper, dozers, motor grader, water trucks, drills and other rubber tired loaders. The Pust Seam is the only reserve area. The Pust Seam is classified as a lignite coal with an average heating value of 6,371 Btu/lb and 0.45 percent sulfur as received. It ranges in thickness from 15 to 25 feet, averaging around 20 feet and usually occurs as a single seam; however, a seam parting with a thickness of 1 to 6 feet does occur. Where present, the parting occurs in the lower part of the seam, dividing the lignite into two distinct benches.
The Savage Mine is a surface (open-pit) coal mine located in Richland County, Montana. The mine is approximately 32 miles north of Glendive and 20 miles south of Sidney. The mine is accessed from Montana Highway 16 via County Road 107. Acreage contained within the current life-of-mine plan amounts to approximately 874 acres. All 874 permitted acres of surface leased fall under private ownership, with the Company having 563 acres of private coal leases and the remaining 311 acres are held under federal coal leases which expire from 2013 to 2017. The mine was opened in 1958 and the coal from this operation supplies the fuel requirements for the Lewis and Clark Generating Station and the Sidney Sugars, Inc. (a subsidiary of American Crystal Sugar Co.) sugar beet processing plant, both located in Sidney.
As of December 31, 2002, Savage’s estimated total coal reserves in owned or leased property were approximately 20,165,000 tons. The Company believes these reserves are recoverable through existing facilities with current technology and existing infrastructure. These reserves were estimated to be 21,486,000 tons as of January 1, 1999, based principally upon a report prepared by Weir International Mining Consultants, an independent consulting firm. Presently, the mine produces approximately 300,000 tons of coal per year.
Of the 874 permitted acres, 502 acres have been disturbed by mining. Reclamation has been completed on 209 acres, with the balance involved in active mining operations. The reclamation bond of $2,946,000 is posted by the Company and exceeds the estimate of the total cost to reclaim the mine. After all reclamation has been completed, the Company is responsible for maintaining and monitoring the reclaimed property until the bond is released, which is a minimum of 10 years after the final seeding has occurred. The cost of maintaining and monitoring the property prior to bond release has been estimated at $265,000 and is included in the reclamation bond estimate.
Of the total reserves shown in the above table in the column captioned “Savage Mine”, approximately 4.7 million tons are fully permitted at this time and 10.8 million tons are not fully permitted but otherwise meet the definition of “coal reserves”. Based on the current estimated production rate of 300,000 tons, there are roughly 15 years remaining under the current permitted mine plan. The permit application process is subject to the regulations of the OSM and the State of Montana under its OSM approved program which is regulated by the Montana Department of Environmental Quality. Among the requirements are detailed pre-mining inventories of environmental resources including soils, vegetation, wildlife, hydrology and archaeology. The application must include detailed plans for mining, reclamation and protection of the hydrological resources. The process includes an exhaustive review of the application for compliance with all applicable regulations. After initial review of the application, the regulatory authority issues a letter outlining deficiencies in the application to which the applicant responds by revising the application where appropriate. This process of identifying and responding to deficiencies is repeated until all matters are addressed. The decision document and environmental assessment are subject to formal public review, including public hearing if requested. This process can take anywhere from one to three years from the time the initial application is filed. Based upon the Company’s current knowledge of the permitting process and the environmental issues which were associated with the permitted reserves, the Company believes that there are no matters that would hinder its ability to obtain any mining permits in the future.
Refer to Note 3 to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of WELLC properties.
ITEM 3