ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES
We operate mines in Montana, Texas, and North Dakota. All of these mines are surface (open-pit) mines. These properties contain coal reserves and coal deposits. A “coal reserve” is that part of a mineral deposit that could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. A “coal deposit” is a coal bearing body, which has been appropriately sampled and analyzed in trenches, outcrops, and drilling to support sufficient tonnage and grade to warrant further exploration work. This coal does not qualify as a “coal reserve” until, among other things, we conduct a final comprehensive evaluation based upon unit cost per ton, recoverability, and other material factors and conclude that it is legally and economically feasible to mine the coal.
We include in “coal reserves” 195.5 million tons that are not fully permitted but that otherwise meet the definition of “coal reserves.” Montana, Texas, and North Dakota each use a permitting process approved by the Office of Surface Mining. We describe the permitting process above in Item 1, under “Governmental Regulation,” and we explain our assessment of that process as applied to these unpermitted tons below.
All of our final reclamation obligations are secured by bonds as required by the respective state agencies. Payment of the actual cost of the major portion of final reclamation is the responsibility of third parties. Contemporaneous reclamation activities are performed at each mine in the normal course of operations and coal production.
The following table provides information about our mines as of December 31, 2004.
Absaloka
Mine Rosebud
Mine Jewett
Mine Beulah
Mine Savage
Mine
Owned by Westmoreland Resources, Inc. Western Energy Company Texas Westmoreland Coal Co. Dakota Westmoreland Corporation Westmoreland Savage Corporation
Location Big Horn County, MT Rosebud and Treasure Counties, MT Leon, Freestone and Limestone Counties, TX Mercer and Oliver Counties, ND Richland County, MT
Coal Reserves
(thousands of tons)
Proven (1)
Probable (3) 47,097(2)
64,800 221,730(2)
84,976
37,036(2)
3,815 12,525(2)
4,008
Permitted Reserves
(thousands of tons) 21,500 142,287 84,976 27,683 3,925
Coal Deposits
(thousands of tons)(4) 565,228 280,000
2004 Production
(thousands of tons) 6,488 12,655 6,453 3,053
Lessor Crow Tribe Federal Govt;
State of MT;
Great Northern
Properties Private parties Private parties;
State of ND;
Federal Govt Federal Govt;
Private parties
Lease Term Through exhaustion varies varies 2009-2019 varies
Curent production capacity
(millions of tons) 4 0.4
Coal Type Sub-bituminous Sub-bituminous Lignite Lignite Lignite
Acres disturbed by mining 3,714 15,255 13,807 4,355
Acres for which reclamation is complete 2,563 6,969 9,979 2,978
Major Customers Xcel Energy, Western Fuels Assoc., Midwest Energy PPL Montana, Puget Sound, Portland General, Avista, Pacificorp, Minnesota Power Texas Genco II Otter Tail, MDU, Minnkota, Northwestern Public Service MDU, Sidney Sugars
Delivery Method Rail Truck / Rail / Conveyor Conveyor Conveyor / Rail Truck
Approx. Heat Content
(BTU/lb.) (5) 8,700 8,529 6,471 7,004 6,371
Approx. Sulfur Content
(%) (6) 0.65 0.74 1.00 1.04 0.45
Year Opened 1975(7)
Total Tons Mined Since Inception
(millions of tons) 85 12.4
(1)
Proven coal reserves are reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well-established. In addition, all coal reserves are "assigned" coal reserves: coal that we have committed to operating mining equipment and plant facilities.
(2)
Includes tons for each mine as described below that are not fully permitted but otherwise meet the definition of "proven" coal reserves.
(3)
Probable reserves are reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling, and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
(4)
We have assigned all coal deposits to operating mining equipment and plant facilities.
(5)
Approximate heat content applies to the coal mined in 2004.
(6)
Approximate sulfur content applies to the tons mined in 2004.
(7)
Initial sales from the current mine complex began in 1975. Mining first occurred at the site in 1924.
We lease all our coal properties except at the Jewett Mine, where some reserves are controlled through fee ownership. We believe that we have satisfied all conditions that we must meet in order to retain the properties and keep the leases in force.
Absaloka Mine Our Westmoreland Resources subsidiary began constructing the mine in late 1972. Construction was completed in early 1974. Westmoreland Resources has been the mine’s only owner.
The Absaloka Mine’s primary excavating machine (completed in 1979) is a dragline with a bucket capacity of 110 cubic yards. Westmoreland Resources owns the dragline. The Absaloka Mine’s facilities consist of a truck dump, primary and secondary crushers, conveyors, coal storage barn, train loadout, rail loop, shop, warehouse, boiler house, deep well and water treatment plant, and other support facilities. These facilities date from the construction of the mine. Westmoreland Resources’ mining contractor and minority stockholder owns most of the other equipment at the mine.
We believe that all the coal reserves and coal deposits shown in the table above for the Absaloka Mine are recoverable through the Absaloka Mine’s existing facilities with current technology and the existing infrastructure. These reserves and deposits were estimated to be 799.8 million tons as of January 1, 1980, based principally upon a report by IntraSearch, Inc., an independent firm of consulting geologists, prepared in February 1980.
Westmoreland Resources leases all of its remaining coal reserves and coal deposits from the Crow Tribe of Indians. The lease runs until exhaustion of the mineable and merchantable coal in the acreage subject to the lease. In February 2004, Westmoreland Resources reached an agreement with the Crow Tribe to explore and develop additional acreage located on the Crow reservation immediately adjacent to the Absaloka Mine. This agreement was approved by the U.S. Department of the Interior in September 2004 and the initial exploration core drilling was completed by year-end in order to fully prove the coal deposits.
Washington Group is contractually responsible for reclaiming the Absaloka Mine, whatever the cost, except for $1.7 million, which is the responsibility of Westmoreland Resources and has been fully funded through annual installments made from 1991 through 2005. Washington Group is also contractually obligated to fund a reclamation escrow account or post security for its reclamation obligation. After reclamation is complete, Westmoreland Resources is responsible for maintaining and monitoring the reclaimed property until the release of the reclamation bond. Westmoreland Resources estimates that it will cost $2.1 million to maintain and monitor the property that it had mined through December 31, 2004 until the reclamation bond for that property is released.
Of the 111.9 million tons shown for the Absaloka Mine in the table above as proven and probable coal reserves, 90.4 million tons are not fully permitted but otherwise meet the definition of “coal reserves.” Westmoreland Resources has chosen to permit coal reserves on an incremental basis and currently has sufficient permitted coal to meet production, given the current rate of mining and demand, through 2007. In Montana, the Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) regulates surface mining and issues mining permits under its OSM-approved program. In Montana, it typically takes two to four years from the time an initial application is filed to obtain a new permit. Westmoreland Resources filed an application with DEQ covering an estimated 25 million tons of unpermitted reserves in June 2004, expanding the mine into Tract III South. The application was deemed administratively complete by DEQ in November 2004. Based upon the current status of this application, and our knowledge of the permitting process in Montana and the Absaloka Mine’s reserves, we expect to receive final approval by mid-2006, as required to meet production requirements.
The operator of the Absaloka Mine purchases electric power under a long-term contract with Northwestern Energy, the local utility. The mine is accessed from Route 384 via County Road 42.
Rosebud Mine The Northern Pacific Railroad began mining coal for its steam locomotives at Colstrip in 1924 and continued to do so until 1958. In 1959, the Montana Power Company purchased the property. Montana Power formed Western Energy Company in 1966 and began selling coal to customers in 1968. Construction of Colstrip Station began in 1975. The long-term contracts required for this plant provided the foundation for a major expansion of the Rosebud Mine. We acquired the stock of Western Energy in 2001.
The Rosebud Mine’s primary excavating machines are four draglines, three with bucket-capacities of 60 cubic yards, purchased in 1975, 1976, and 1980, and one with a bucket-capacity of 80 cubic yards, purchased in 1983. The Rosebud Mine’s facilities consist of truck dumps, crushing, storage, and conveying systems, a rail loadout, rail loop, shops, warehouses, and other support facilities. These facilities date from 1974.
We estimate that the Rosebud Mine had coal reserves of 221.7 million tons as of December 31, 2004. This estimate is based on a study of the Rosebud Mine’s reserves dated October 31, 2003 conducted by Western Energy and adjusted for tons mined since that date. We estimate that the Rosebud Mine had coal deposits of approximately 280 million tons at the end of 2004. This estimate is based on a study of the reserves at the Rosebud Mine dated September 28, 1994, prepared by the Environmental and Engineering Department of Western Energy while it was owned by Montana Power. This study was updated by the Rosebud Mine’s engineering staff in 2003. Our estimate is also based in part on a lease with the U.S. Department of the Interior that Western Energy obtained in 1999. We believe that all of these reserves are recoverable through the Rosebud Mine’s existing facilities with current technology and the existing infrastructure.
We are responsible for performing reclamation activities at the Rosebud Mine. The owners of the Colstrip Station are responsible for paying the costs of reclamation relating to mine areas where its coal supply is produced, which is approximately 63% of the estimated total cost of final reclamation for the Rosebud Mine. Certain owners have satisfied these obligations by prefunding their respective portions of those costs.
Of the 221.7 million tons shown for the Rosebud Mine in the table above as proven coal reserves, 78.9 million tons are not fully permitted but otherwise meet the definition of “coal reserves.” Western Energy has chosen not to permit all of the coal reserves in its mine plan because it already has sufficient coal in its current permitted mine plan, given the current rate of mining and demand for its production, through 2013. Based upon our current knowledge of the nature of the remaining reserves and the permitting process in Montana, we believe that there are no matters that would hinder Western Energy’s ability to obtain additional mining permits in the future.
The Rosebud Mine purchases electric power from NorthWestern Energy under regulated default supply pricing. Access to the mine is from Highway 39 via Castle Rock Road.
Jewett Mine Development of the Jewett Mine began in 1979, when Northwestern Resources Co. and Utility Fuels, Inc. signed an agreement calling for production of “the most economic 240 million tons” from the project area to supply the planned Limestone Station. The coal deposit was evaluated through a series of exploration programs, including physical and chemical analysis, according to predetermined criteria. The Jewett Mine has been in continuous operation since 1985 and consists of five active areas with as many as four lignite seams within each area. Since 1979, ownership of the Limestone Station has been transferred several times, most recently to Texas Genco II. We acquired the stock of Northwestern Resources in 2001 and renamed the company Texas Westmoreland in 2004.
The Jewett Mine’s primary excavating machines consist of three walking draglines, each with a bucket-capacity of 84 cubic yards, one walking dragline with a bucket-capacity of 128 cubic yards, and one bucketwheel excavator. The Jewett Mine’s facilities consist of a truck dump, crusher, conveyors, coal storage, shop/warehouse complex, administrative support buildings, and water treatment facilities. These facilities date from the construction of the mine. Texas Genco II owns the draglines, the bucketwheel and other mobile equipment used to extract lignite and provides this equipment to Texas Westmoreland without charge. Texas Westmoreland is obligated to maintain the draglines and all other plant and equipment so that they continue to be serviceable and support production comparable to the original specifications.
Exploration work for the mine commenced in the late 1970s, and Texas Westmoreland’s geologists and engineers prepared the initial estimates of the mine’s reserves at a time when Montana Power owned the Jewett Mine. To further define the coal reserve, exploration drilling was utilized to delineate that part of the deposit that could economically be mined. Additional drilling has been conducted from time to time to further define the limits of the coal seams. As of December 31, 2004, all planned exploration is complete. We believe that all the Jewett Mine’s coal reserves are recoverable through its existing facilities with current technology and the existing infrastructure.
Final reclamation of the Jewett Mine, at the end of its useful life, is the financial responsibility of its customer.
The Railroad Commission of Texas, or RCT, regulates surface mining in Texas and issues mining permits under its OSM-approved program. In Texas, it typically takes eighteen months to two years from the time an initial application is filed to obtain a new permit. A permit term encompasses five years of mining. The Jewett Mine currently holds two mining permits, 32F and 47. Permit number 32F is a renewal of the original mining permit that has been in place and actively mined since the mine opened in 1985. This permit is valid through July 2008. Permit number 47 was issued in December 2001 and has a term that runs through December 2006.
The Jewett Mine purchases electric power from the Brazos River Authority and Navasota Valley Electric Cooperative. The mine may be accessed on Farm to Market Road 39.
Beulah Mine Knife River Corporation began producing lignite at the Beulah Mine in 1963. The mine has two working areas, the West Brush Creek area and the East Beulah area. We purchased the assets of the Beulah Mine from Knife River in 2001.
On January 31, 2005, we signed an option to lease reserves in the South Beulah area. Initial drilling and mine plans have been completed. We have six months to complete detailed mine plans and diligence. The South Beulah reserves have improved quality, lower sodium and lower strip ratios than the existing mine areas. (The strip ratio is a measure of the overburden that must be removed to allow the extraction of coal; a strip ratio of 10:1 means that 10 cubic yards of overburden must be removed to permit the extraction of one ton of coal.)The owners of the Coyote Station have agreed to include the acquisition costs and development capital in the cost base under the Coyote contract.
The Beulah Mine’s primary excavating machines are a dragline with a bucket-capacity of 17 cubic yards, constructed in 1963, which operates in the West Brush Creek area, and a dragline with a bucket-capacity of 84 cubic yards, constructed in 1980, which removes overburden at East Beulah. The Beulah Mine’s facilities consist of a truck dump hopper, primary and secondary crushers, conveyors, train loadout, railroad spur, coal storage bin, and coal stockpile. The support facilities include several maintenance shops, equipment storage buildings, warehouse, employee change houses, and mine office and trailers. These facilities date from 1963 and have been replaced consistent with normal industry practices.
The Beulah Mine’s engineering staff has estimated the mine’s reserves and updated the reserves annually, adjusted for tons mined. We estimate that the total owned and leased coal reserves at the Beulah Mine were approximately 40.9 million tons at December 31, 2004. We believe that all of these reserves are recoverable through the Beulah Mine’s existing facilities with current technology and the existing infrastructure.
We are responsible for reclaiming the Beulah Mine and paying the cost of our reclamation obligations.
Of the 40.9 million tons shown for the Beulah Mine in the table above as proven and probable coal reserves, 13.2 million tons are not fully permitted but otherwise meet the definition of “coal reserves.” Of the total reserves shown, approximately 4.2 million tons in the West Brush Creek area and 23.5 million tons at East Beulah are fully permitted at this time. Based on the current estimated production rates of 500,000 and 2.5 million tons respectively, there are roughly seven and nine years, respectively, remaining under the current permitted mine plans. North Dakota Public Service Commission regulates surface mining in North Dakota and issues mining permits under its OSM-approved program. In North Dakota, it typically takes one to two years from the time an initial application is filed to obtain a new permit. Based on our current knowledge of the permitting process in North Dakota and the environmental issues associated with these reserves, we believe that there are no matters that would hinder our ability to obtain any mining permits in the future.
The Beulah Mine purchases electric power from MDU. The mine is accessed from North Dakota Highway 49.
Savage Mine
Knife River began producing lignite at the Savage Mine in 1958. We purchased the assets of the Savage Mine from Knife River in 2001.
The Savage Mine’s primary excavating machine is a walking dragline with a bucket-capacity of 12 cubic yards. The Savage Mine’s facilities consist of a truck dump, near-pit crushing unit, conveyors, and coal stockpile; support facilities include a shop, warehouse, and mine office. These facilities date from 1958 and have been replaced consistent with normal industry practices. The processing facilities were constructed in 1996. The facilities were modified and upgraded in 2001.
We estimate that the total owned and leased coal reserves at the Savage Mine were approximately 16.5 million tons at December 31, 2004. These reserves were estimated as of January 1, 1999, based principally upon a report prepared by Weir International Mining Consultants, an independent consulting firm, and updated by our engineering staff in 2004. We believe that all of these reserves are recoverable through the Savage Mine’s existing facilities with current technology and the existing infrastructure.
We are responsible for reclaiming the Savage Mine and paying the cost of our reclamation obligations.
Of the tons shown for the Savage Mine in the table above as coal reserves, approximately 3.9 million tons are fully permitted at this time and 12.6 million tons are not fully permitted but otherwise meet the definition of “coal reserves.” We have chosen not to permit all of the coal reserves in the Savage Mine’s plan because the mine already has sufficient coal in its current permitted mine plan given the current rate of mining and demand for its production through 2014. Based upon our current knowledge of the nature of the remaining reserves and the permitting process in Montana, we believe that there are no matters that would hinder our ability to obtain additional mining permits at the Savage Mine in the future.
The Savage Mine purchases electric power from MDU. The mine is accessed from Montana Highway 16 via County Road 107.
Other Refer to Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of Westmoreland Energy's properties.
ITEM 3