ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Mining Operations
For reference, the Company has included on Page M-1, a small scale map illustrating the Company's coal operation. See "Page M-1 - Kentucky-West Virginia Operation".
Captive Coal Production. The Company currently conducts mining operations at three underground mines and one surface mine at its Kiah Creek reserves located in Wayne, Lincoln and Mingo counties in southern West Virginia and six underground mines and two surface mines at its Elk Horn reserves located in Floyd, Johnson, Knott, Letcher, Magoffin, Martin and Pike counties in eastern Kentucky. Approximately 70% of the Company's 1998 production originated from its underground mines, and approximately 30% originated from its surface mines. Coal seam thickness, location and the amount of overburden required to be removed, among other conditions, are factors utilized by the Company to determine the appropriate mining method. Over the last five years, the Company has shifted a greater percentage of its production to underground mines to maximize its reserve utilization. In 1994, 43% of the Company's production was from underground mines, compared to 70% in 1998. Contract miners, under the terms of contract mining agreements with the Company, have operated in nine underground mines and two surface mines on the Company's Elk Horn reserves and one underground mine on the Company's Kiah Creek reserves during 1998. Contract mining has represented 11%, 21%, 17%, 22% and 16% of the Company's coal production in the periods 1994 through 1998, respectively.
The following table presents the Company's total captive coal production for the previous five years for its regions:
(1) Includes the production of a Company operated mine in Kentucky known as Big River Mining which produced 330,000 tons and 255,000 tons in 1994 and 1995, respectively. Excludes production by The Elk Horn Coal Corporation, which the Company acquired in August 1994, prior to the Company's purchase of the Elk Horn reserves. Production from Elk Horn was (exclusive of leased production) 466,000 tons during 1994.
Kiah Creek. The Company's major mining operations are located at Kiah Creek. These reserves were purchased by the Company in 1987 for $16.5 million, and mining operations commenced shortly thereafter with surface mining and, later, underground mining. This property consists of approximately 45,000 acres of surface area. In 1995 and 1996, the Company acquired by lease approximately 26 million tons of reserves which are contiguous to Kiah Creek. Management estimates that the Company currently owns in fee approximately 27 million tons of reserves and currently controls, primarily through leases, an additional approximately 24 million tons of reserves on this property. Management estimates that the quality of its production at Kiah Creek has averaged 10 to 14% ash, and 11,500 to 12,500 Btu per pound, and that its remaining reserves at Kiah Creek are 73% compliance coal, 17% low-sulfur and 10% medium sulfur.
At Kiah Creek, four underground mining units in three underground mines are currently operating. The Company operates two underground mining units in its Mine #3 in the Coalburg seam, one underground mining unit in its Mine #4 in the 5-Block seam and one underground mining unit in its Mine #5 in the 5-Block seam. In addition, for the first half of 1998, a contract mining company had operated one underground mining unit at the Company's Mine #2 in the Coalburg seam. Mining is now complete at Mine #2. Approximately 0.9, 1.0, 1.5, 1.9 and 2.0 million tons of coal were produced from the Company's Kiah Creek underground mines in the years from 1994 through 1998, respectively.
The Company also operates one surface mine in the 5-Block seam at Kiah Creek. The Company utilizes contour and point removal and area mining techniques in its surface mining operations. Approximately 1.2, 1.2, 1.3, 1.1 and 1.2 million tons of coal were produced from the Company's Kiah Creek surface mines in the years from 1994 through 1998, respectively.
The Company owns and operates a computer-controlled, 600 tons-per-hour heavy media preparation plant on the Kiah Creek property where the coal from all of its underground mines on this property and a small percentage of its surface mined coal is processed. The preparation plant sizes the raw product, then directs the sized product to one of three circuits: heavy media vessel, heavy media cyclones or spirals. Each of these circuits utilizes gravity separation to separate coal from rock and other impurities. This preparation plant is also capable of producing stoker coal. The preparation plant has a storage capacity of approximately 50,000 tons of raw and washed coal and a processing capacity of approximately four million raw tons per year. This plant processed 0.9, 1.0, 1.5, and 1.9 and 2.0 million tons of clean coal in the years from 1994 through 1998, respectively, and has averaged recovery rates of 47%, 42%, 54%, 51% and 53% in the years 1994 through 1998, respectively. The preparation plant currently operates 24 hours per day, seven days a week.
The coal from the Kiah Creek surface mine and from the Kiah Creek preparation plant is sent by truck via Company roads and state highways approximately 50 miles to the Company's Wayne County River Terminal located in West Virginia along the Big Sandy River, a navigable tributary of the Ohio River. The Company built its Wayne County facility in 1988 at an initial cost of approximately
$3.5 million and has made additional capital expenditures on this facility of $3.8 million. This river terminal, which is approximately 15 miles from Huntington, West Virginia, has blending capabilities and a loading capacity of approximately 6 million tons annually.
The Company's coal is delivered by barge to its domestic customers along the Ohio River and Mississippi River, and to its international and Gulf of Mexico customers through International Marine Terminals, an ocean vessel loading facility south of New Orleans on the Mississippi River which is one-third owned by the Company. Either an independent barge operator or the Company's customers transport the coal after it has been loaded into the river barges. In April 1998, the Company ceased operations at its smaller river terminal in Kentucky located along the Big Sandy River since all of the Company's barge loading needs can be more efficiently met at the Company's Wayne County River Terminal. The Kentucky dock facility is currently being marketed for sale.
The Company shipped 3.8, 4.1, 4.4, 4.5 and 4.7 million tons from its terminals on the Big Sandy River from 1994 through 1998, respectively. According to the Big Sandy River Committee, an organization of shipping facilities on the Big Sandy River, including 10 coal-loading facilities, the Company shipped more tonnage than any other operator on this river in 1996, 1997 and 1998.
Generally, the Company undertakes and controls all permitting and permit maintenance under the SMCRA requirements and similar state requirements in West Virginia for its captive production. The Company provides surety bonds for these SMCRA permits.
Elk Horn. In 1994, the Company acquired the Elk Horn properties through its purchase of all of the outstanding capital stock of The Elk Horn Coal Corporation for $71 million in cash. This acquisition made the Company one of the largest private owners of coal reserves in Central Appalachia. The Company produces coal through the use of contract mining companies and leases to other coal companies the mineral rights to a portion of the coal from its Elk Horn reserves. The Company's Elk Horn reserves include approximately 142,000 non-contiguous surface acres of coal bearing lands in eastern Kentucky, all of which is owned in fee. Based on the Reserve Studies, the Elk Horn reserves are estimated to contain more than 92 million tons of coal.
The Company believes that due to the location and geological composition of its Elk Horn reserves, it is more economically attractive to either contract with other mining companies or lease to other coal companies than for the Company to mine. However, the Company continually reevaluates its reserves and production to determine whether the Company can cost-effectively extract coal through its own mining operations. Therefore, given the appropriate economic and geological factors, the Company could determine to mine the reserves at Elk Horn itself.
Elk Horn's contract mines include both underground and surface mines. Because of the reserve's geological composition, Elk Horn's contract underground miners currently utilize conventional mining techniques which generally result in less volume and productivity per man hour versus utilizing continuous mining units. However, conventional mining tends to produce coal with less ash content which reduces the requirement to wash the coal at a preparation plant. As a result, the Company does not maintain a preparation plant on the Elk Horn reserve.
Under these contract mining arrangements, the Company contracts with independent mining companies to extract coal in exchange for a predetermined per-ton fee. Contract mining fees at the Elk Horn operations have averaged approximately $14.99 per ton from 1995 through 1998. Contract mining fees typically exclude taxes and royalties. The relationships between the Company and its contract miners are generally governed by the Company's standard contract mining agreement (the "Contract Mining Agreement"). The Contract Mining Agreement is for a term of one year which is automatically renewed from year to year, although either party may elect not to renew upon 60 days' notice. Several of the Contract Mining Agreements allow either party to terminate upon 30 days' notice for virtually any reason. Each Contract Mining Agreement provides that the independent contractor meet certain minimum daily and monthly production requirements and minimum coal quality standards. Contractors are given premiums or charged penalties based on delivered coal quality. The Contract Mining Agreement is not assignable by the contractor without the express permission of the Company nor is a significant change in ownership of the contractor permitted. The Contract Mining Agreement requires the contractor to provide all of the equipment, manpower and other resources necessary to mine the coal. The contractor must provide all required insurance coverage to its employees and liability insurance for its operation. The Contract Mining Agreement provides that the contractor will hold the Company harmless from any environmental or health and safety liability incurred by the contractor as a result of its mining. The Company in conjunction with the contractor, determines the most efficient mining plan for the coal reserve in order to maximize the use of the resources.
The Company generally undertakes and controls all permitting and permit maintenance under SMCRA requirements and similar state requirements in Kentucky (including providing the surety bonds for the SMCRA permits for these contract mine sites). Each contract miner fulfills the site maintenance requirements for the SMCRA permits as part of its contract with the Company. All federal Mine Safety Health Act requirements are also the sole responsibility of the contract miner.
The coal produced for the Company from Elk Horn is transported to the Company's Wayne County River Terminal on the Big Sandy River for delivery to customers along the Ohio River and Mississippi River systems and to the Gulf of Mexico.
From the date of acquisition in August 1994 through 1998, contract mining operations at Elk Horn produced 282,000, 641,000, 552,000, 557,000 and 707,000 tons, respectively. The average raw coal quality produced by these contract mining operations has consistently exceeded the Company's sales contract requirements.
Fork Creek. In November 1997, the Company acquired a 28,000-acre contiguous tract located in Kanawha, Boone and Lincoln counties in West Virginia. Based on the Reserve Studies, Fork Creek contains approximately 80 million tons of coal reserves. The Fork
Creek acquisition is consistent with the Company's strategy to focus its operations on large contiguous properties located in the Central Appalachia region. The purchase price for this property was $16 million.
The Fork Creek reserves are a large contiguous tract of mineral reserves analogous in size to the Kiah Creek reserves. Unlike Kiah Creek, however, the geological conditions of the Fork Creek reserves have led the Company to plan primarily underground mining operations to extract the mineral. The Company intends to develop Fork Creek for its own production while selectively contracting with other miners where such contracts are commercially attractive. Based upon data received from core-hole drilling done on the property, management estimates that the quality of the reserves at Fork Creek will generally be between 5% to 13% ash and 12,150 to 13,250 Btu per pound and the reserves are 25% compliance coal, 41% low-sulfur and 34% medium sulfur.
The Company expects to invest approximately $65 million over the next several years to develop this property, including the construction of an upgradable 900 tons per hour coal preparation plant and a 150 car, four hour, batch weigh, fast feed rail loadout adjacent to a CSX rail line and an access road to the heart of the property. This expected investment for development of Fork Creek is larger than the investment previously planned because management believes the income from the property can be significantly increased with a larger preparation plant and other infrastructures. The Company anticipates that the construction of the preparation plant and the rail loadout will take approximately twelve months to complete. A portion of the proceeds from the Notes are intended to be used to fund a portion of the Fork Creek development, and in particular to fund the construction of the preparation plant and rail loadout. In addition to rail transportation, coal from this property may also be cost-effectively transported by truck to river terminals located on the nearby Kanawha River and loaded into river barges for shipment along the Ohio River and Mississippi River systems. The Fork Creek reserves are accessible by truck via a state highway and an access road which is now under construction. The Company believes that flexibility in transporting coal by rail or river barge will provide it with a competitive advantage in increasing the number of potential customers for coal from this property. All material permits for road access, rail access, the preparation plant, the loadout and the underground facility will be submitted by the end of the second quarter of 1999.
Leasing Operations
Elk Horn Coal Leasing. The primary use of the Company's Elk Horn property has involved the leasing of its mineral rights to independent coal producers in exchange for revenue-based lease royalties. The Company's strategy has been to lease attractive coal reserves to reliable coal producers under financially sound leases. As noted above, the Company owns the mineral rights on approximately 142,000 acres in eastern Kentucky and has approximately 92 million tons of reserves, which are generally characterized as high-volatility bituminous with low-sulfur content. The Elk Horn coal reserves are strategically located in eastern Kentucky, with access to major markets on the CSX rail system, and by barge via the Big Sandy and Ohio Rivers. Much of these reserves are adjacent to numerous mining companies' operations. As a result, it often is cost-effective for such mining companies to continue mining in such areas, including on reserves leased from the Company for a fee, rather than to cease mining operations at such locations and redeploy equipment to other locations or idle or dispose of equipment. All of these factors make the Company's Elk Horn reserves attractive lease property to independent producers and coal operators.
During the year ended December 31, 1998, the Company had 19 operators who were actively mining on leased coal reserves, including MC Mining, Inc., Bull Creek Coal Corporation, Locust Grove, Inc., Johns Creek Coal Company, Maple Ridge Inc., Industrial Fuels Minerals Company, Richardson Fuel, Inc., Kris-Coal Mining, Inc., Turner Elkhorn Mining Company, Pike-Letcher Land Company, and Mineral Resources, Inc. Generally, the lease terms provide the Company with a royalty fee of up to 10% of the sales price of the coal with a minimum of $1.75 to $2.50 per ton. The length of such leases generally varies from three to five years with five years being the most common term. The Company has a limited number of longer term leases which have terms of 35 years to the exhaustion of the reserve. Under these longer term leases the royalties range from 4% to 7% of the coal sales price. A minimum royalty is required whether the property is mined or not. If sufficient coal is not mined such that the property does not meet the minimum, the lessee pays the deficiency. Such deficiency (or minimum royalty) can be recouped by the lessee as a credit against royalties owed on mined coal if there is production within a period of time after a deficiency is paid. This system motivates the lessee to maximize production of the property during the term of the lease. The Company's credit experience with its lessees has historically been favorable, with minimal bad debt write-offs for the period from 1995 through 1998 of $27,000, $3,000, $111,000 and $0, respectively. The Company has subsequently recouped $86,000 of the $111,000 written off in 1997.
In the period from 1994 through 1998, independent coal producers mined approximately 4.0, 3.7, 3.4, 3.0 and 3.3 million tons, respectively, of coal under leases (the information provided prior to the Company's acquisition of the Elk Horn reserves has been derived from amounts reported by Elk Horn's previous owner). Management believes that the amount of leased coal mined in 1998 increased from 1997 levels due to several new lessees' mines starting production in late 1997 and during 1998. Leasing contributed an average of $8.8 million per year in revenues since 1995 and management believes leasing will continue to generate significant revenues based on existing leases and indications of future mining activity by these operators.
The main activities include new lease development, cubication for lessee extraction verification, continuing reserve analysis and mapping, acquisitions and dispositions of properties, lease compliance, environmental oversight on unleased properties, and related matters.
In recent years, Elk Horn's internal engineering and mapping group has identified and prioritized the coal reserves which are favorable for development. Management has proactively sought lessees for these identified areas. The Company has also leased in response to inquiries about mining opportunities in specific seams, areas, or boundaries. The Company's objective is to acquire by purchase or lease properties contiguous to its Elk Horn properties in order to offer additional lease tracts to coal operators.
Transportation Operations
Wayne County River Terminal. The Company's coal is currently transported to its customers primarily by barges loaded at this river terminal on the Big Sandy River and, to a much lesser extent, by truck and rail. The Company generally pays truck charges to deliver coal from its preparation plant or mine site to its Wayne County River Terminal and incurs costs to load it onto a barge. Customers typically pay the transportation costs from the barge to the customer's ultimate destination of delivery. The average annual per ton cost incurred by the Company for transporting its coal from the preparation plant or mine site to its river terminals during the period from 1994 through 1998 was $3.84.
The Company currently contracts with 9 independent trucking companies to haul its coal from the mine site or preparation plant to the Wayne County River Terminal. These hauling arrangements typically consist of a term of three years and are based on a fixed fee per ton. The Company believes it can replace, if necessary, any of its independent trucking relationships with other independent trucking companies upon relatively short notice.
International Marine Terminals. For the Company's export customers, the Company incurs additional charges related to the cost of barging the coal downriver and for transloading the coal from river barges to ocean-going vessels. The Company has a one-third partnership interest in International Marine Terminals ("IMT"). IMT owns and operates an ocean marine loading facility located in Louisiana south of New Orleans along the Mississippi River. IMT (i) transloads coal from river barges into gulf barges or ocean going vessels to Gulf Coast coal customers and international markets; (ii) transloads petroleum coke for domestic producers (or their sales brokers); and (iii) provides transloading services for the U.S. steel industry with imported iron ore and other ferro alloys.
Cotton Operations
Pen Cotton Company of South Carolina. The Company has a cotton ginning and warehousing business in South Carolina which accounted for approximately 5% of the Company's 1998 revenues. In 1996, the Company sold Pen Cotton Tennessee, its Tennessee cotton operations, and closed Pen Cotton Company of Alabama, Inc., its Alabama cotton merchandising activity. Approximately 19,000 bales of cotton were ginned in 1998, compared with approximately 23,000 bales in 1997. The Company receives fees for its services for ginning and warehousing. In 1998, revenues from this operation were $8.4 million. The South Carolina cotton operation revenues as a percentage of total revenues and EBITDA as a percentage of total EBITDA for the period from 1994 through 1998 were 4.3%, 7.2%, 8.1%, 5.6% and 5.0%, respectively and 1.0%, 0.6%, 2.7%, 1.6% and 1.8%, respectively. The Company also typically purchases cottonseed from the farmer at the time of ginning. The seed is then sold to a local oil mill who produces cottonseed oil or, more commonly, is sold into the dairy cattle market where the seed is used as feed. Consistent with the Company's strategy to focus on its core business, the Company may, given the right market conditions, choose to sell its remaining cotton operations.
Administrative Offices
The Company maintains administrative offices in Brentwood (located near Nashville), Tennessee; Kenova, Dunlow, and Alum, West Virginia; and Prestonsburg, Kentucky.
ITEM 3.