ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
Mining Operations
For reference, the Company has included on page M-1, a small scale map illustrating the Company's coal operations. See "Page M-1-Kentucky-West Virginia Operation".
Captive Coal Production - Summary. The Company currently conducts mining operations in various locations through four operating divisions (Kiah Creek, Fork Creek, Levisa Fork and Bear Branch). Approximately 56% of the Company's 2000 production originated from its underground mines, and approximately 44% originated from its surface mines. Coal seam thickness, location and the amount of overburden required to be removed, among other conditions, are factors utilized by the Company to determine the appropriate mining method. The Company has shifted a greater percentage of its production to underground mines to maximize its reserve utilization. In 1993, 37% of the Company's production was from underground mines, compared to 56% in 2000. Contract miners, under the terms of contract mining agreements with the Company, operated in seven underground mines and three surface mines on the Company's Elk Horn reserves during 2000. Contract mining has represented 17%, 22%, 16%, 21%, and 14% of the Company's coal production in the periods 1996 through 2000, respectively.
The following table presents the Company's total captive coal production for the previous five years:
Kiah Creek. Through 2000, the Company's principal mining operations have been located at Kiah Creek. These reserves were purchased by the Company in 1987 for $16.5 million, and mining operations commenced shortly thereafter with surface mining and, later, underground mining. This property consists of approximately 45,000 acres of owned and leased surface area located in Wayne, Lincoln and Mingo counties in southern West Virginia. In 1995 and 1996, the Company acquired by lease approximately 26 million tons of reserves which are contiguous to Kiah Creek. Management estimates that the Company currently owns in fee approximately 24 million tons of reserves and currently controls, primarily through leases, an additional approximately 21 million tons of reserves on this property. Management estimates that the quality of its production at Kiah Creek has averaged 10 to 15% ash, and 11,500 to 12,500 Btu per pound, and that its remaining reserves at Kiah Creek are 23% compliance coal and 77% low-sulfur and medium sulfur.
At Kiah Creek, two underground mining units in two underground mines are currently operating. The Company operates one underground high performance unit in Mine #6 in the Coalburg seam, and one underground high performance mining unit in its Mine #7 in the 5-Block seam. In addition for most of 2000 the Company had single underground units operating in Mine #3 in the Coalburg seam and Mine #4 and #5 in the 5-Block seam. In May of 2000, one section of underground equipment was idled to free-up capacity in the preparation plant for the additional production from the highwall miner. During the fourth quarter of 2000 the Company began transitioning from Mines #4 and #5 into Mines #6 and #7 and reconfigured the equipment mix into two high performance units. Mining is now complete at Mines #3, #4 and #5. Approximately 1.5, 1.9, 2.0, 2.0, and 1.3 million tons of coal were produced from the Company's Kiah Creek underground mines in the years from 1996 through 2000, respectively.
The Company also operates one surface mine in the 5-Block and Coalburg seams at Kiah Creek. The Company utilizes contour and point removal and area mining techniques in its surface mining operations. Late in the second quarter of 1999, the Company added a highwall miner to its Kiah Creek surface mine to supplement the production from that mine. In May of 2000, the highwall miner began operating 24 hours per day, seven days a week
to increase its production. Approximately 1.3, 1.1, 1.2, 1.7, and 2.0 million tons of coal were produced from the Company's Kiah Creek surface mines in the years from 1996 through 2000, respectively.
The Company owns and operates a computer-controlled, 600-ton-per-hour heavy media preparation plant on the Kiah Creek property where the coal from all of its underground mines and the highwall miner on this property and a small percentage of its surface mined coal is processed. The preparation plant sizes the raw product, then directs the sized product to one of three circuits: heavy media vessel, heavy media cyclones or coal spirals. Each of these circuits utilizes specific gravity separation to separate coal from rock and other impurities. This preparation plant is also capable of producing stoker coal. The preparation plant has a storage capacity of approximately 50,000 tons and a processing capacity of approximately four million raw tons per year. This plant processed 1.5, 1.9, 2.0, 2.2, and 1.9 million tons of clean coal in the years from 1996 through 2000, respectively, and has averaged recovery rates of 54%, 51%, 53%, 54%, and 52% in the years 1996 through 2000, respectively. The preparation plant currently operates 24 hours per day, seven days a week. The coal from the Kiah Creek surface mine and from the Kiah Creek preparation plant is sent by truck via Company roads and state highways approximately 50 miles to the Company's Wayne County River Terminal located in West Virginia along the Big Sandy River, a navigable tributary of the Ohio River.
The Company built its Wayne County River Terminal in 1988 at an initial cost of approximately $3.5 million and has made additional capital expenditures on this facility of $3.9 million. This river terminal, which is approximately 15 miles from Huntington, West Virginia, has blending capabilities and a loading capacity of approximately six million tons annually.
Currently, the Company's coal from its Kiah Creek and Levisa Fork divisions is being delivered primarily by barge to its domestic customers along the Ohio River and Mississippi Rivers. Either an independent barge operator or the Company's customers transport the coal after it has been loaded into the river barges. In April 1998, the Company terminated its operations at its smaller river terminal in Kentucky located along the Big Sandy River. This termination occurred because management believed the Company's barge loading needs were more efficiently met at the Company's Wayne County River Terminal. The Company is seeking to sell the Kentucky dock facility.
The Company shipped 4.4, 4.5, 4.7, 5.0, and 4.0 million tons from its terminals on the Big Sandy River from 1996 through 2000, respectively. According to the Big Sandy River Committee, an organization of shipping facilities on the Big Sandy River, including 10 coal-loading facilities, the Company shipped more tonnage than any other operator on this river in each of the last five years.
Generally, the Company undertakes and controls all permitting and permit maintenance under the SMCRA requirements and similar state requirements in West Virginia for its captive production. The Company provides surety bonds for these SMCRA permits.
Fork Creek. In November 1997, the Company acquired a 28,000-acre contiguous tract located in Kanawha, Boone and Lincoln counties in West Virginia. Based on the Reserve Studies, Fork Creek contains approximately 80 million tons of coal reserves. The Fork Creek acquisition is consistent with the Company's strategy to focus its operations on large contiguous properties located in the Central Appalachia region. The purchase price for this property was $16 million.
The Fork Creek reserves are a large contiguous tract of mineral reserves analogous in size to the Kiah Creek reserves. Unlike Kiah Creek, however, the geological conditions of the Fork Creek reserves have led the Company to plan primarily underground mining operations to extract the mineral. Originally, the Company intended to develop Fork Creek for its own production while selectively contracting with other miners where such contracts are commercially attractive. However, given the Company's increasing need for cash and liquidity, management is exploring possible transactions that could transfer the ownership of these mineral rights to third parties. Based upon data received from core-hole drilling done on the property, management estimates that the quality of the reserves at Fork Creek will generally be between 5% to 13% ash and 12,150 to 13,250 Btu per pound and the reserves are 25% compliance coal, 41% low-sulfur and 34% medium sulfur.
The Company has invested approximately $73 million (excluding mobile mining equipment) to develop this property, including the construction of an upgradeable 900 tons per hour coal preparation plant and a 150 car, four hour, batch weigh, fast feed rail loadout adjacent to a CSX rail line and an access road to the heart of the property. The
Company began mining in Fork Creek #1 in May 2000 while the preparation plant construction was being completed. The construction of the preparation plant and the rail loadout was completed in September 2000 and shipments began immediately thereafter. The Fork Creek reserves are accessible by truck via a state highway and an access road on to the property.
At Fork Creek, four underground mining units in two underground mines are currently operating. The Company operates one super section and two continuous haulage units in Mine #1, which is a slope and shaft mine in the No. 2 Gas seam and one super section in the Tiny Creek #2 drift mine which is in the 5-Block seam. If the Company's liquidity permits, management expects to add an additional unit in Tiny Creek #2 mine as soon as equipment and manpower can be secured. Mining began with one mining unit in Mine #1 in May 2000. Additional mining units were added throughout the remainder of 2000. The Tiny Creek mine started in December 2000. During 2000, Fork Creek produced 308,000 tons. If the Company's liquidity permits, management expects to produce approximately 2.4 million tons in 2001 and assuming that manpower and equipment can be secured to meet its expansion plans.
Levisa Fork. The Levisa Fork operating division consists of the captive production performed by contract miners on the Elk Horn reserves (see description of the Elk Horn reserves under Elk Horn Coal Leasing) During 2000, Levisa Fork's contract mines included eight underground mines (of which five are still active) and two surface mines (which are no longer active). Because of the reserve's geological composition, Levisa Fork's contract underground miners currently utilize conventional mining techniques. Conventional mining techniques are often used in thinner coal seams (approximately 30-inch mining height) and generally result in less volume and productivity per man-hour versus utilizing continuous mining units. However, conventional mining tends to produce coal with less ash content, which reduces the requirement to wash the coal at a preparation plant. As a result, the Company does not maintain a preparation plant on the Elk Horn reserve.
Under these contract mining arrangements, the Company contracts with independent mining companies to extract coal in exchange for a predetermined per-ton fee. Contract mining fees at Levisa Fork have averaged approximately $14.72 per ton from 1996 through 2000. Contract mining fees typically exclude taxes and royalties. The relationships between the Company and its contract miners are generally governed by the Company's standard contract mining agreement (the "Contract Mining Agreement"). The Contract Mining Agreement is for a term of one year which is automatically renewed from year-to-year, although either party may elect not to renew upon 60 days' notice. Several of the Contract Mining Agreements allow either party to terminate upon 30 days' notice for virtually any reason. Each Contract Mining Agreement provides that the independent contractor meet certain minimum daily and monthly production requirements and minimum coal quality standards. Contractors are given premiums or charged penalties based on delivered coal quality. The Contract Mining Agreement is not assignable by the contractor without the express permission of the Company nor is a significant change in ownership of the contractor permitted. The Contract Mining Agreement requires the contractor to provide all of the equipment, manpower and other resources necessary to mine the coal. The contractor must provide all required insurance coverage to its employees and liability insurance for its operation. The Contract Mining Agreement provides that the contractor will hold the Company harmless from any environmental or health and safety liability incurred by the contractor as a result of its mining. The Company in conjunction with the contractor, determines the most efficient mining plan for the coal reserve in order to maximize the use of the resources.
The Company generally undertakes and controls all permitting and permit maintenance under SMCRA requirements and similar state requirements in Kentucky (including providing the surety bonds for the SMCRA permits for these contract mine sites). Each contract miner fulfills the site maintenance requirements for the SMCRA permits as part of its contract with the Company. All federal Mine Safety Health Act requirements are also the sole responsibility of the contract miner.
The coal produced at Levisa Fork is typically transported to the Company's Wayne County River Terminal on the Big Sandy River for delivery to customers along the Ohio River and Mississippi River systems and to the Gulf of Mexico.
From 1996 through 2000, contract mining at Levisa Fork produced 557,000, 542,000, 713,000, 971,000 and 602,000 tons, respectively. The average raw coal quality produced by these contract mining operations has consistently exceeded the Company's sales contract requirements.
Bear Branch The Company's Bear Branch operating division in Martin and Lawrence counties in Kentucky currently operates one underground high performance unit in its Peach Orchard #1 mine in the Peach Orchard seam (which is equivalent to the Coalburg seam in West Virginia). The Company also has a contract miner operating one surface mine on the property. Additionally, during the first half of 2000 an additional contract miner in an underground mine was producing coal. The Company expects Bear Branch to produce approximately 600,000 tons of coal annually over the life of its reserves. Consistent with its historical strategy, the Company will attempt to acquire, by purchase or lease, additional reserves at Bear Branch.
The coal produced at Bear Branch is transported by truck either directly to customers or to the Company's Wayne County River Terminal on the Big Sandy River for delivery to customers along the Ohio River and Mississippi River systems and to the Gulf of Mexico.
Leasing Operations
Elk Horn Coal Leasing. In 1994, the Company acquired the Elk Horn properties through its purchase of all of the outstanding capital stock of Elk Horn Coal for $71 million in cash. This acquisition made the Company one of the largest private owners of coal reserves in Central Appalachia. The Company produces coal through the use of contract mining companies (see "Levisa Fork" above) and leases to other coal companies the mineral rights to a portion of the coal from its Elk Horn reserves. The Company's Elk Horn reserves include approximately 142,000 non-contiguous surface acres of coal bearing lands located in Floyd, Johnson, Knott, Letcher, Magoffin, Martin and Pike counties in eastern Kentucky, all of which is owned in fee. Based on the Reserve Studies, the Elk Horn reserves are estimated to contain more than 92 million tons of coal.
The Company believes that due to the location and geological composition of its Elk Horn reserves, it is more economically attractive to either contract with other mining companies or lease to other coal companies than for the Company to mine. However, the Company continually reevaluates its reserves and production to determine whether the Company can cost-effectively extract coal through its own mining operations. Therefore, given the appropriate economic and geological factors, the Company could determine to mine the reserves at Elk Horn itself.
The primary use of the Company's Elk Horn property has involved the leasing of its mineral rights to independent coal producers in exchange for revenue-based lease royalties. The Company's strategy has been to lease attractive coal reserves to reliable coal producers under financially sound leases. The Elk Horn coal reserves are strategically located in eastern Kentucky, with access to major markets on the CSX rail system, and by barge via the Big Sandy and Ohio Rivers. Many of these reserves are adjacent to numerous mining companies' operations. As a result, it often is cost-effective for such mining companies to continue mining in such areas, including on reserves leased from the Company for a fee, rather than to cease mining operations at such locations and redeploy equipment to other locations or idle or dispose of equipment. All of these factors make the Company's Elk Horn reserves attractive lease property to independent producers and coal operators.
During the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company had 29 operators who were actively mining on leased coal reserves, including MC Mining, Inc., Bull Creek Coal Corporation, Locust Grove, Inc., Johns Creek Coal Company, Maple Ridge Inc., Industrial Fuels Minerals Company, Kris-Coal Mining, Inc., Turner Elkhorn Mining Company, Pike-Letcher Land Company, Heck Energy, Addington Mining and Mineral Resources, Inc. Generally, the lease terms provide the Company with a royalty fee of up to 10% of the sales price of the coal with a minimum of $1.75 to $2.50 per ton. The length of such leases generally varies from three to five years with five years being the most common term. The Company has a limited number of longer term leases which have terms of 35 years to the exhaustion of the reserve. Under these longer term leases the royalties range from 4% to 7% of the coal sales price. A minimum royalty is required whether the property is mined or not. If sufficient coal is not mined such that the property does not meet the minimum, the lessee pays the deficiency. Such deficiency (or minimum royalty) can be recouped by the lessee as a credit against royalties owed on mined coal if there is production within a period of time after a deficiency is paid. This system motivates the lessee to maximize production of the property during the term of the lease. The Company's credit experience with its lessees has historically been favorable, with minimal bad debt write-offs for the period from 1996 through 2000 of $3,000, $111,000, $0, $40,767, and $0 respectively. The Company has subsequently recovered $86,000 of the $111,000 written off in 1997.
In the period from 1996 through 2000, independent coal producers mined approximately 3.4, 3.0, 3.3, 4.0, and 3.4 million tons, respectively, of coal under leases. Management believes the amount of coal mined in 2000 decreased from 1999 levels due to a decline in coal demand and market conditions during the first nine months of 2000. Leasing contributed an average of $8.6 million per year in royalty revenues since 1996 and management believes leasing will continue to generate significant revenues based on existing leases and indication of future mining by these operators. During the fourth quarter of 2000 and the first quarter of 2001 increases in natural gas and petroleum prices along with the shortages of electrical power has substantially strengthened the coal market and leads management to believe that there will be a increase in leasing and mining activity.
In recent years, Elk Horn's internal engineering and mapping group has identified and prioritized the coal reserves which are favorable for development. Management has proactively sought lessees for these identified areas.
The Company has also negotiated leases in response to inquiries about mining opportunities in specific seams, areas, or boundaries.
Transportation Operations
Wayne County River Terminal. The Company's coal is currently transported to its customers primarily by barges loaded at this river terminal on the Big Sandy River and, to a much lesser extent, by truck and rail. The Company generally pays truck charges to deliver coal from its preparation plant or mine site to its Wayne County River Terminal and incurs costs to load it onto a barge. Customers typically pay the transportation costs from the barge to the customer's ultimate destination of delivery. The average annual cost per ton incurred by the Company for transporting its coal from the preparation plant or mine site to its river terminals during the period from 1996 through 2000 was $3.70.
The Company currently contracts with four independent trucking companies to haul its coal from the mine site or preparation plant to the Wayne County River Terminal. These hauling arrangements typically consist of a term of three years and are based on a fixed fee per ton. The Company believes it can replace, if necessary, any of its independent trucking relationships with other independent trucking companies upon relatively short notice.
International Marine Terminals. The Company has a one-third partnership interest in International Marine Terminals ("IMT"). IMT owns and operates an ocean marine loading facility located in Louisiana south of New Orleans along the Mississippi River. IMT (i) transloads coal from river barges into gulf barges or ocean going vessels to Gulf Coast coal customers and international markets; (ii) transloads petroleum coke for domestic producers (or their sales brokers); and (iii) provides transloading services for the U.S. steel industry with imported iron ore and other ferro alloys. During 1999, IMT transloaded a total of 5.6 million tons of cargo, 0.6 million tons of which related to the Company's TPC contract which expired in 1999.
Cotton Operations
In June 2000, the Company sold the stock of Pen Cotton Company of South Carolina, a wholly owned subsidiary engaged in cotton ginning and warehousing in South Carolina. The selling price was $2,900,000 paid in cash at closing. Pen Holdings, Inc. is a guarantor of the debt that the buyer incurred to purchase the business. The gain resulting from the sale of approximately $847,000 is included in income from discontinued operations. As a result of this sale the Company has discontinued its cotton operations. The Company's balance sheet at December 31, 1999 and the statements of income and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 1999 have been restated to reflect the Company's discontinuation of cotton operations.
Administrative Offices
The Company maintains administrative offices in Brentwood (located near Nashville), Tennessee; Kenova, Dunlow, Charleston, and Alum Creek, West Virginia; and Prestonsburg and Richardson, Kentucky.
ITEM 3.