Item 2. Properties
As of December 31, 2019, we operated all of our offshore wells, with an average working interest of 54%, and operated 69% of our onshore wells with an average working interest of 77.7%. As of December 31, 2019, our properties were located in the following regions: Offshore Gulf of Mexico, Western Anadarko, Central Oklahoma, West Texas and Other Onshore.
Development, Exploration and Acquisition Expenditures
The following table presents information regarding our net costs incurred in the purchase of proved and unproved properties, exploration costs incurred in the search for new reserves from unproved properties and costs incurred in the development of those properties for the periods indicated (in thousands):
Included in proved property acquisition costs for the year ended December 31, 2019 are those related to the Will Energy and White Star acquisitions. See Note 4 - “Acquisitions and Dispositions” for more information.
Unproved property acquisition costs for the year ended December 31, 2019 include $6.0 million related to our offshore Joint Development Agreement with Juneau and $3.1 million related to the properties acquired in the Will Energy and White Star acquisitions. Included in unproved property acquisition costs for each of the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 is $2.7 million, $10.2 million and $5.9 million, respectively, related to the acquisition of unproved property in the Southern Delaware Basin.
The following table presents information regarding our share of the net costs incurred by Exaro in the purchase of proved and unproved properties and in exploration and development activities for the periods indicated (in thousands):
Drilling Activity
The following tables show our exploratory and developmental drilling activity for the periods indicated. In the tables, “gross” wells refer to wells in which we have a working interest, and “net” wells refer to gross wells multiplied by our working interest in such wells.
As of December 31, 2019, we had one drilled but uncompleted onshore development well. We have a 25 percent working interest in the well, which began producing in January 2020.
Exploration and Development Acreage
Developed acreage is acreage spaced or assigned to productive wells. Undeveloped acreage is acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would form the basis to determine whether the property is capable of production of commercial quantities of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. Gross acres are the total acres in which we own a working interest. Net acres are the sum of the fractional working interests we own in gross acres.
The following table shows the approximate developed and undeveloped acreage that we have an interest in, by region, at December 31, 2019.
(1)
Excludes any interest in acreage in which we have no working interest before payout or before initial production.
(2)
Net acres represent the number of acres attributable to our proportionate working interest in a lease (e.g., a 50% working interest in a lease covering 320 acres is equivalent to 160 net acres).
(3)
Other Onshore includes acreage in East, South and Southeast Texas, Louisiana, Wyoming and Mississippi.
Some of our onshore leases will expire over the next three years as follows, unless we establish production or take action to extend the terms of these leases:
Production, Price and Cost History
The table below sets forth production data, average sales prices and average production costs associated with our sales of natural gas, oil and natural gas liquids ("NGLs") from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. Oil, condensate and NGLs are compared with natural gas in terms of cubic feet of natural gas equivalents. One barrel of oil, condensate or NGL is the energy equivalent of six Mcf of natural gas. Average production costs include lease operating expense, transportation and processing costs and workover costs.
Productive Wells
Productive wells are producing wells and wells capable of producing commercial quantities. Completed but marginally producing wells are not considered here as a “productive” well. The following table sets forth the number of gross and net productive natural gas and oil wells in which we owned an interest as of December 31, 2019:
(1)
A gross well is a well in which we own an interest.
(2)
The number of net wells is the sum of our fractional working interests owned in gross wells.
Throughput Contract Commitment
The Company has a throughput agreement with a third party pipeline owner/operator through March 31, 2020. See Note 14 - “Commitments and Contingencies” for further information.
Natural Gas and Oil Reserves
Estimates of proved reserves and future net revenues were prepared by Cobb and Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), our independent petroleum engineering firms, in accordance with the definitions and regulations of the SEC. The technical persons responsible for preparing the reserve estimates are independent petroleum engineers and geoscientists that meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information
promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (“SPE”). Cobb prepared the proved reserves estimates as of December 31, 2019 for all of our properties. For the estimates of proved reserves as of December 31, 2018, Cobb prepared the estimates for all of our offshore Gulf of Mexico properties and our onshore West Texas reserves, while NSAI prepared the proved reserves estimates for our remaining onshore properties.
The technical individual at Cobb responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserve estimates as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 has over 40 years of experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves; is a registered professional engineer in the state of Texas, holds a Bachelor of Science Degree in Petroleum Engineering from Texas A&M University, is a member of the SPE and is a member of the Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers. The technical individual at NSAI responsible for the preparation of our reserve estimates as of December 31, 2018 has over 15 years of experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves, is a licensed professional engineer in the state of Texas, and holds a Bachelor of Science Degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Tulsa.
The estimates of proved reserves and future net revenue as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 were reviewed by our corporate reservoir engineering department. The corporate reservoir engineering department interacts with the geoscience, operating, accounting and marketing departments to review the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data, and the methods and assumptions used by Cobb and NSAI in the preparation of the reserves estimates. All relevant data is compiled in a computer database application to which only authorized personnel are given access rights. Our Reservoir Engineering Director is the person primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of our internal reserve estimates and for reviewing any reserves estimates prepared by our independent petroleum engineering firms. Our Reservoir Engineering Director has a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from Texas Tech University, is a licensed professional engineer in the state of Texas, has over 15 years of industry experience with positions of increasing responsibility and is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers. She reports directly to our President and Chief Executive Officer. Reserves are also reviewed internally with senior management and presented to our board of directors in summary form on a quarterly basis.
We maintain adequate and effective internal control over the underlying data upon which reserve estimates are based. The primary inputs to the reserve estimation process are comprised of financial data, ownership interests and production data. Our reservoir engineers incorporate material changes in performance, activity and other inputs from operations, geology, land, or other departments, to reserve forecasts on a quarterly basis. The reservoir engineering team shares these changes with our independent petroleum engineering firm annually. Current revenue and expense information is obtained from our accounting records, which are subject to external quarterly reviews, annual audits and our own internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is assessed for effectiveness annually using criteria set forth in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. All data such as commodity prices, lease operating expenses, production taxes, field level commodity price differentials, ownership percentages and well production data are updated in the reserve database by our third-party reservoir engineers and then analyzed by management to ensure that they have been entered accurately and that all updates are complete. Once the reserve database has been entirely updated with current information, and all relevant technical support material has been assembled, our independent engineering firms prepare their independent reserve estimates and final report.
The following table reflects our estimated proved reserves as of the dates indicated:
(1)
Excludes reserves attributable to our 37% equity investment in Exaro.
(2)
During the year ended December 31, 2019, total proved reserves increased by approximately 184.5 Bcfe primarily due to the 192.7 Bcfe increase related to the White Star and Will Energy acquisitions and an increase of 71.5 Bcfe in total reserves related to our recently drilled wells in the NE Bullseye area of West Texas and new PUD locations in our Other Onshore area, offset by a downward revision of 49.1 Bcfe primarily related to a reduction in Bullseye PUDs in West Texas in this low price environment and 2019 production of 17.9 Bcfe.
(3)
Under SEC rules, prices used in determining our proved reserves are based upon an unweighted 12-month first day of the month average price per MMBtu (Henry Hub spot) of natural gas and per barrel of oil (West Texas Intermediate posted). 2019 SEC prices were $55.69 per bbl of oil and $2.25 per Mmbtu of natural gas. 2018 SEC prices were $64.80 per bbl of oil and $3.10 per Mmbtu of natural gas. Prices for natural gas liquids in the table represent average prices for natural gas liquids resulting from the proved reserve estimates, calculated in accordance with applicable SEC rules. All prices were adjusted for quality, energy content, transportation fees and regional price differentials in determining proved reserves, and those realized prices, as averaged across all proved reserves, are presented in the table.
PV-10
PV-10 at year-end is a non-GAAP financial measure and represents the present value, discounted at 10% per year, of estimated future cash inflows from proved natural gas and oil reserves, less future development and production costs using pricing assumptions in effect at the end of the period. PV-10 differs from Standardized Measure of Discounted Net Cash Flows because it does not include the effects of income taxes on future net revenues. Neither PV-10 nor Standardized Measure of Discounted Net Cash Flows represents an estimate of fair market value of our natural gas and oil properties. PV-10 is used by the industry and by our management as an arbitrary reserve asset value measure to compare against past reserve bases and the reserve bases of other business entities that are not dependent on the taxpaying status of the entity.
The following table provides a reconciliation of our Standardized Measure to PV-10 (in thousands):
The following table reflects our estimated proved reserves, by category, as of December 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands):
Our estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 2019, volumetrically, were approximately 42% natural gas, 36% oil and condensate and 22% natural gas liquids.
Proved Developed Reserves
Total proved developed reserves increased from 79.2 Bcfe at December 31, 2018 to 244.5 Bcfe at December 31, 2019, an increase primarily attributable to the 188.3 Bcfe increase related to the Will Energy and White Star acquisitions and to additions of 5.6 Bcfe primarily related to wells drilled and put on production in 2019 in our NE Bullseye area of West Texas. Partially offsetting the noted 2019 increases were downward performance revisions of 9.7 Bcfe, primarily in our Offshore properties and Bullseye properties in West Texas, and 2019 production of 17.9 Bcfe.
The following table presents the changes in our total proved developed reserves for the year ended December 31, 2019:
(1)
Acquisitions are related to the Will Energy and White Star acquisitions. See Note 4 - “Acquisitions and Dispositions” for more information.
(2)
Extensions, discoveries and additions are primarily related to our NE Bullseye properties in West Texas and new PUDs in our Other Onshore region.
(3)
Revisions are primarily related to our Offshore properties and Bullseye properties in West Texas. The Offshore revisions of 8.1 Bcfe are due to re-assessing future operating costs, as well as a revision to the reservoir model which affected the associated recoverable condensate volumes. The West Texas revisions of 4.0 Bcfe are related to the performance of our Bullseye wells, which impacted the economic expectations for future locations in the current low-price environment.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Total proved undeveloped reserves (“PUDs”) increased from 52.7 Bcfe at December 31, 2018 to 71.9 Bcfe at December 31, 2019. As noted in the table below, this increase was primarily attributable to 65.9 Bcfe in new PUD locations in our NE Bullseye area in West Texas as a result of our 2019 drilling program and our Other Onshore region, and was partially offset by a downward revision of 41.0 Bcfe related to the reduction in PUDs in our Bullseye area in West Texas due to the impact of lower performance, and realized prices on the PUD economics in this area.
Future drilling plans and timelines are re-evaluated at the end of each calendar year based on updated reserve reports, current drilling cost estimates, production costs and product price forecasts. Our development plan prioritizes reserves based on the capital requirements and the expected incremental net present value to be added. Generally, our plan is to convert PUDs to developed reserves in an order that is based on their economic importance and impact on production and cash flow, but other factors may be considered such as technical merit, product type, location and available working interest partners. The PUD conversion rate in 2019 and 2018 was 6.3% and 9.1%, respectively, of the total net present value of the Company’s total PUDs at the beginning of the applicable year.
The Company annually reviews any PUDs to ensure their development within five years from the year in which the PUDs were added to proved reserves. The Company’s financial resources are expected to be sufficient to drill all of the remaining 71.9 Bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves within the upcoming five year period. Development costs relating to the 71.9 Bcfe at December 31, 2019 are projected to be approximately $208.9 million over the next five years.
The following table presents the changes in our total proved undeveloped reserves for the year ended December 31, 2019:
(1)
Extensions, discoveries and additions are primarily associated with wells drilled in 2019 on NE Bullseye properties in West Texas and new PUD locations in our Other Onshore region.
(2)
Acquisitions are related to the Will Energy and White Star acquisitions. See Note 4 - “Acquisitions and Dispositions” for more information.
(3)
Revisions are primarily related to the performance of our Bullseye properties in West Texas, which impacted the economic expectations and drilling plans for those locations in the current commodity price environment.
(4)
Other includes the reduction in PUD locations in non-core areas that are no longer expected to be drilled within the five year period, per further reserve review, and the plugging and abandoning of properties.
Significant Properties
Summary proved reserve information for our properties as of December 31, 2019, by region, is provided below (excluding reserves attributable to our equity investment in Exaro) (dollars in thousands):
(1)
Under SEC rules, prices used in determining our proved reserves are based upon an unweighted 12-month first day of the month average price per MMBtu (Henry Hub spot) of natural gas and per barrel of oil (West Texas Intermediate posted). Prices for natural gas liquids in the table represent average prices for natural gas liquids used in the proved reserve estimates, calculated in accordance with applicable SEC rules. All prices, using SEC rules, are adjusted for quality, energy content, transportation fees and regional price differentials in determining proved reserves.
While we are reasonably certain of recovering our calculated reserves, the process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves is complex. It requires various assumptions, including natural gas and oil prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Our third party engineers must project production rates,
estimate timing and amount of development expenditures, analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of all of this data may vary. Actual future production, natural gas and oil prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable natural gas and oil reserves most likely will vary from estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and net present value of reserves. In addition, estimates of proved reserves may be adjusted to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing natural gas and oil prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.
Reserves Attributable to our Equity Investment in Exaro
Estimates of proved reserves and future net revenue as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 for Exaro, which we account for using the equity method, were prepared by Von Gonten in accordance with the definitions and regulations of the SEC. The technical persons responsible for preparing the reserve estimates are independent petroleum engineers and geoscientists that meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the SPE.
The specific technical individual at Von Gonten responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserve estimates as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 has over 18 years of practical experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves, is a registered professional engineer in the state of Texas, holds a Bachelor of Science Degree in Petroleum Engineering from Texas A&M University and is a member in good standing of the SPE.
The following table reflects the estimated proved reserves attributable to our equity investment in Exaro:
(1)
The Company's share of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows attributable to our equity investment in Exaro does not include the effect of income taxes because Exaro is treated as a partnership for tax purposes. Exaro allocates any income or expense for tax purposes to its partners.
(2)
Under SEC rules, prices used in determining our proved reserves are based upon an unweighted 12-month first day of the month average price per MMBtu (Henry Hub spot) of natural gas and per barrel of oil (West Texas Intermediate posted). All prices are adjusted for quality, energy content, transportation fees and regional price differentials in determining proved reserves.
(3)
During the year ended December 31, 2019, the decrease in Exaro’s proved reserves attributable to our investment in Exaro was approximately 3.6 Bcfe.
Prior Year Reserves
Our estimated net proved natural gas, oil and natural gas liquids reserves as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are disclosed in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures (Unaudited)”. Reserves as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 were based on reserve reports generated by NSAI and Cobb, while the reserves associated with our 37% equity investment in Exaro were prepared by Von Gonten.
Item 3.