Item 2 of this Report describe the Company’s continuing businesses and exclude the microelectronic materials business that was sold.
The term “Company” as used in Parts I and II of this Report means Arch Chemicals, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. The Company’s products and services described in this Report may be sold, distributed, manufactured or provided by Arch Chemicals, Inc. or by one or more of its subsidiaries, affiliates, or joint ventures.
The Company makes available through its Internet website, which is located at http://www.archchemicals.com, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, its Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after being electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The Company does not charge any fees to view, print or access these reports on its website through the Internet. Interested persons may read and copy these reports, proxy statements and other information at the SEC’s Public Reference Section at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 and may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet website, located at http://www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding registrants, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.
2004 Events
On April 2, 2004, the Company completed the acquisition of Avecia’s pool & spa and protection & hygiene businesses. The total purchase price net of cash acquired, was $230.8 million, inclusive of expenses and a final working capital adjustment of $7.4 million. The payment consisted of cash and the issuance of the Company’s common stock with a value of $15.7 million. The purchase price is further subject to a contingent payment of up to $5.0 million in cash based upon earnings attributable to North American sales of certain products. In addition, to the extent that the unfunded pension liability in the U.K. pension plan was less than $10.0 million, the purchase price was adjusted upwards by the difference between $10.0 million and the unfunded liability, with the consideration to be split equally between a contingent cash payment and up to 223,250 additional shares of the Company’s common stock. The share consideration component of this adjustment was 74,788 shares of the Company’s common stock, which were issued in January 2005 with a
value of $1.7 million. The contingent cash payment will be earned based upon cumulative global net sales of certain products through 2005.
In April 2004, the Company’s contract to sell hydrazine to the U.S. Government expired and the U.S. Government awarded a new 10-year hydrazine propellant supply contract to another company. The Company protested the award and ultimately the government agreed to re-bid the contract. The Company submitted its new bid on January 20, 2005. In addition, in connection with the re-bidding procedure, the Company filed a claim in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims protesting various aspects related to the bidding process. As a result of this complaint, the court directed the Defense Energy Support Center (“DESC”) to add to the price of competitors’ bids the shutdown costs related to the Company’s Lake Charles facility that the DESC had agreed to pay to the Company in the event the Company is not awarded the new contract. The Company is pleased with the court’s order. However, its impact is uncertain and there is no assurance that the order will have a significant impact on the bidding process in favor of the Company. Final revised bids are currently due on March 15, 2005. The DESC notified the Company that it anticipates completing its contract-award decision late in the first quarter or early in the second quarter of 2005.
On November 30, 2004, the Company sold the majority of the operations of its microelectronic materials business to Fuji Photo Film Co., Ltd. for approximately $160 million in cash, inclusive of an estimated closing working capital adjustment of $1.1 million. Excluded from the transaction were the Company’s 50% interest in Planar Solutions LLC, the Company’s joint venture with Wacker Chemical Corporation for the production and sale of chemical mechanical planarization (“CMP”) slurries, the microelectronics-dedicated manufacturing facility in Brandenburg, Kentucky and the Company’s chemical management services (“CMS”) business.
Products and Services
The Company’s principal products and services fall within two business segments: treatment products and performance products. For financial information about each of the Company’s segments, and foreign and domestic and export sales and long-lived assets, see Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Report. The principal products of each business are described below. For customer concentrations, see “Business and Credit Concentrations” contained in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Report.
Treatment Products
Within its treatment products segment, the Company manufactures and sells water treatment chemicals, biocides and personal care specialty ingredients, and wood treatment and industrial coatings chemicals and related services.
HTH Water Products. The Company sells chemicals and equipment on a worldwide basis for the sanitization and treatment of residential and commercial pool and spa water, drinking water and water used in industrial applications. The Company sells both chlorine-based products (calcium hypochlorite and chlorinated isocyanurates) and non-chlorine-based products (polyhexamethylene biguanide (“PHMB”)) as sanitizers. With the acquisition of Avecia’s pool & spa business in April 2004, the Company is a major manufacturer and seller of PHMB-based pool and spa treatment chemicals in the U.S. The pool and spa products are sold primarily to U.S. pool and spa owners through an extensive network of authorized, independent retailers, rather than through mass market retailers. The Company’s pool chemical products are sold primarily under the widely-recognized HTH® brand name and the Baquacil® and Baqua Spa® brand names. The Company also sells commercial pool products under the Pulsar® brand name and to specialty pool dealers under the POOLIFE® brand name. The Company’s water chemical products are also distributed as private label brands. In addition to the pool water sanitizers, PHMB, calcium hypochlorite and chlorinated isocyanurates, the Company sells ancillary chemicals and accessories for the maintenance of residential and commercial pools, such as algaecides, clarifiers and test strips. The Company is a leading worldwide producer of calcium hypochlorite with various concentrations of available chlorine. The Company has a competitive advantage through ownership of several patents covering the manufacture and use of pool chemicals and equipment, as well as through the ownership of strong brand names.
The Company’s water products are also sold in the municipal water market for the purification of potable water. The Company sells calcium hypochlorite to purify potable water mainly in a number of countries outside the U.S. The Company has plans to expand its presence in the municipal and industrial water market both domestically and internationally.
In 2004, approximately 58% of the Company’s water products sales were within North America, and the remaining 42% were throughout the rest of the world. In North America, the Company sells water chemical products to retail merchants and to pool dealers. In 2003, the Company acquired all of its joint venture partner’s interest in Aquachlor (Pty.) Ltd., its South African joint venture. The Company has ownership interests in a joint venture in Brazil (Nordesclor S.A.) that manufactures and distributes calcium hypochlorite and other water products to local markets. The Company’s Brazilian subsidiary, Arch Quimica Brasil Ltda., manufactures and distributes other water chemical products in Brazil and other South American countries.
In addition to the manufacture and sale of HTH water products, the Company manufactures and sells chemicals and equipment and accessories for pools in Europe mainly through its wholly owned subsidiary Arch Water Products France, S.A.S., located in France.
Personal Care and Industrial Biocides. The Company is a leading global supplier of biocides for preservation of industrial and consumer products. It manufactures biocides that control dandruff on the scalp and control the growth of micro-organisms, particularly fungi and algae and with the acquisition of Avecia’s protection & hygiene business in April 2004, also develops, manufactures and markets biocides for anti-bacterial applications. All biocide products are marketed under the well-recognized trademarks, Omadine®, Omacide®, Triadine®, Proxel®, Purista® and Densil® biocides. A large portion of the biocide chemicals produced by the Company are based on the zinc, sodium and copper salts of the pyrithione molecule. These pyrithione-based biocides include over twenty products with differing active concentrations, forms and salts, and the Company believes it is a worldwide leader in these biocide products. Other biocide chemicals are based on iodopropargyl-n-butylcarbamate (IPBC), a broad-spectrum fungicide, and serve the metalworking fluids and coatings markets. The IPBC-based biocides currently consist of five variations with others in development stages. The acquisition of the Avecia protection & hygiene business in 2004 expanded the Company’s molecule offerings to include two well-established, market-leading molecules - benzisothiazolin (“BIT”) and PHMB. The Company is a leading supplier of BIT and PHMB into the global biocides market and now supplies biocides used in health and hygiene applications. Biocides make up a small portion of the content of the customer’s end products, and therefore must be highly effective at low concentrations as well as compatible with the formulation’s other components. Meeting the biocide customer’s needs requires a high degree of technical support and the expertise to do business in a highly regulated environment. The Company’s ability to meet these needs makes it a preferred supplier in the biocides market. It is also uniquely positioned as the only pyrithione supplier with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency registrations for metalworking fluids, coatings and antifouling paints. The Company also participates in the personal care market with actives and functional ingredient products sold primarily to manufacturers in the global cosmetic, toiletries and personal care industries. It provides these customers with biotechnological active ingredients, delivery systems, proteins, botanicals and functional ingredients, primarily for use in skin and hair care formulations.
Wood Protection and Industrial Coatings. The Company is a leading producer of wood treatment chemical solutions that enhance the properties of wood. Its wood preservatives and fire retardants are sold under the brand names WOLMAN®, Dricon®, Tanalith®, Vacsol®, and Resistol® in markets around the world. These products protect wood against moisture, fungal decay, or termites and other insects or retard the combustibility of wood. The principal customers are sawmills and treaters of softwoods that require chemical treatment to impart resistance to fungal and insect damage, giving softwoods the performance of hardwoods in service. In the U.S. and Canada, the majority of the customers are licensed wood treaters that operate under guidelines and standards established by the Company. The license program includes the use of the brand name for sale of the products produced by the licensee as well as an extensive support package comprised of marketing, technical, engineering and environmental services. The Company’s customers sell their wood-treated products into the construction, utility, residential and agricultural markets. The products sold by the Company are critical to the performance and value of the end-use products. Arch Wood Protection, Inc., a
subsidiary of the Company, amended its registration with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“U.S. EPA”) for chromated copper arsenate (“CCA”) to transition to a new generation of wood preservatives for use in non-industrial treated wood products by December 31, 2003. Growing consumer preferences and the availability of alternative products have moved the industry to CCA-alternative products and the Company is offering its WOLMAN®E and Tanalith®E patented products, leading CCA-alternative wood treatment products, which are utilized by wood treaters to make Wolmanized® Natural Selecttm and Tanalized® wood. The Company continues to supply CCA for industrial purposes such as the treatment of wood used in utility poles and highway guardrails.
The Company owns 49% of a joint venture with Koppers Industries, Inc., based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, for the manufacture and distribution of wood treatment chemicals to the Australian and Asia-Pacific markets.
The Company also manufactures and sells a wide range of industrial coatings for a variety of applications for wood and other materials. These finishes are primarily industrial- or consumer-applied products for the surface decoration and protection of wood, including stains, polyester- and polyurethane-based coatings, and water-based coatings and UV systems that incorporate new technology. These coatings products are sold under the name “Arch Coatings,” including the brand names Sayerlack® and Linea Blu®. The major markets for these products include home and office furniture, window and door frames, picture frames, and other specialty markets. The Company believes it is a market leader in France, and has a strong presence in several other areas of Europe, including the strategic Italian market and the United Kingdom. The Company also has operations in Spain and sales and technical support facilities in the U.S., China and Singapore that support sales efforts in North America and Asia. The major customers for these coatings require a high degree of applications assistance, and the development of a total coatings solution, including product development, is key to the growth of this business. As a result, the Company has many long-standing customers and its customer base includes many of the leading furniture and joinery manufacturers in Europe.
Performance Products
Performance Urethanes. The Company’s performance products segment includes the manufacture and sale of a broad range of urethane intermediate products with diverse end uses. The urethanes products sold by the Company impart physical characteristics that are critical to the performance and value of the customer’s end-use products. Custom manufacturing services are also provided. The business is characterized by close customer relationships with entities who are leaders in the markets in which they compete. The flexibility afforded by batch manufacturing in some operations, combined with the Company’s ability and willingness to provide superior technical support, enables it to respond to the specific needs of a diverse group of customers. This gives the Company an advantage over competitors whose manufacturing processes and related cost structure constrain their ability to respond cost effectively to smaller volume customers.
The Company’s performance urethane products business includes flexible polyols, specialty polyols, urethane systems and glycols and glycol ethers. Specialty polyols, which are used as an ingredient for elastomers, adhesives, coatings, sealants and rigid foam, are manufactured at the Company’s Brandenburg, Kentucky site, as well as by its Venezuelan subsidiary. The Brandenburg facility also manufactures glycols and glycol ethers for use as an ingredient in cleaners, personal care products and antifreeze and provides custom manufacturing of specialty chemicals for a small group of companies. Flexible polyols, which are used in the furniture, bedding, carpet and packaging industries, are manufactured by the Company’s wholly owned Venezuelan subsidiary, Arch Quimica Andina, C.A., for South American markets.
Hydrazine. The Company supplies hydrazine hydrates and hydrazine derivatives. Hydrazine hydrate products are sold for use in chemical blowing agents, water treatment chemicals, agricultural products, pharmaceutical intermediates and other chemical products. The hydrazine hydrates are supplied in various concentrations and in packaging containers that include bulk, tote bins and drums. Since early 2004, the hydrazine hydrates plant has been idled and the Company purchases hydrazine hydrates from a third party supplier for resale to its customers and as an ingredient for its formulated hydrazine products.
The Company supplies propellant grade hydrazine and hydrazine derivatives for use as fuel in satellites, expendable launch vehicles and auxiliary and emergency power units. These propellant grade hydrazine products include Ultra Puretm Hydrazine (“UPH”), anhydrous hydrazine (“AH”), unsymmetrical dimethyl hydrazine (“UDMH”), monomethyl hydrazine (“MMH”) and hydrazine fuel blends. Currently, the Company is not manufacturing or selling AH, UDMH, MMH and hydrazine fuel blends due to the expiration of the U.S. Government propellants contract in April 2004. In addition to space-related applications in satellites and launch vehicles, auxiliary power from hydrazine-driven units is supplied to the NASA Space Shuttle for maneuvering its rocket engine nozzles and for operating valves, control surfaces, brakes and landing gear on the Shuttle Orbiter. Emergency power from hydrazine is also provided to jet aircraft like the to operate electrical and hydraulic units in the event of an engine flameout. The Company also supplies launch services and special packaging containers including cylinders to improve the safe handling and storage of propellants and to reduce launch costs.
Customers
The Company’s customer base is diverse and includes pool and spa retailers, world-renowned consumer product companies, major big box retailers, furniture manufacturers, national and regional chemical and equipment distributors, wood treaters, sawmills, other chemical manufacturers and the U.S. Government. While no single customer has accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s total annual sales in 2004, sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates (collectively, “Wal-Mart”) slightly exceeded 10% of the Company’s total annual sales in 2003 and 2002. Further, a significant portion of sales of the treatment products segment (approximately 17% in 2004) is dependent upon Wal-Mart and another customer, with Wal-Mart accounting for a significant portion of the sales of the HTH water products business and the other customer accounting for a significant portion of the sales of the personal care and industrial biocides businesses. For additional information about customers, see the information under the caption “Business and Credit Concentrations” in Item 7 of this Report.
Raw Materials and Energy
The Company utilizes a variety of raw materials in the manufacture of products for its businesses. Outlined below are the principal raw materials for the product businesses. The majority of the Company’s raw material requirements are purchased and many are provided under the terms and conditions of written agreements. Overall, principal raw materials are generally readily available to the Company as a whole.
Treatment Products. The principal raw materials for the HTH water products line include chlorine, caustic soda, lime and chlorinated isocyanurates. For other pool chemicals, the primary raw material is cyanamide liquor.
The principal raw materials for industrial biocide treatment chemicals and personal care specialty ingredient chemicals are pyridine, iodine, phthalic anhydride, thionyl chloride, chlorine, cyanamide liquor, and propargyl butyl carbamate.
The principal raw materials for wood protection products include chromic acid, scrap copper, tebuconazole, copper carbonate, arsenic trioxide, cupric oxide, monoethanolamine, and proprietary organic biocides. The raw materials for the industrial coatings line include a wide variety of polyester resin systems, organic solvents, nitrocellulose, acrylic resins, acrylic and vinyl emulsions, titanium dioxide, isocyanate, various pigments and colors and stains. The coatings business uses certain water-borne resins which are sourced from one supplier and are not readily available.
Performance Products. The principal raw materials for the urethanes products are primarily propylene, propylene oxide, ethylene oxide, while chlorine, caustic soda and ammonia are the key raw materials for the hydrazine business. For this segment, propylene is the most significant raw material that is subject to significant price volatility.
Electricity for the Company’s manufacturing facilities is mostly supplied to the Company by public or government utilities while at shared sites with other companies are supplied by other third parties. Natural gas
used for steam production is an important energy source for many of the Company’s U.S. manufacturing sites, particularly its Brandenburg, Kentucky facility, and is purchased from multiple suppliers.
Research and Development and Patents
The Company’s research activities are conducted at several sites including Cheshire, Connecticut; South Plainfield, New Jersey; Conley, Georgia; Blackley, England; and Pianoro, Italy. Company-sponsored research expenditures were $15.4 million in 2004, $11.7 million in 2003 and $10.3 million in 2002.
In general, intellectual property is important to the Company, but no one technology, patent or license or group thereof related to a specific process or product is of material importance to the Company as a whole.
The Company believes that its broad patent portfolio in the treatment products segment provides a sustainable competitive advantage for the treatment chemical businesses.
The Company has a significant patent portfolio related to HTH water products that includes 34 U.S. patents and numerous foreign counterpart patents. Three of these U.S. patents are for the technology relating to the manufacture of J3tm calcium hypochlorite, which enables it to produce calcium hypochlorite with superior dissolving characteristics, and are materially important to the HTH water products business. Two of these three patents expire in 2009 and the other expires in 2010. Most of the remaining patents continue at least until 2012. Another significant patent, which expires in 2015, is for the multi-functional formulated trichloro-isocyanuric (“trichlor”) tablets that enables the Company to offer important enhanced benefits to its water treatment customers as distinguished from basic pure trichlor tablets. The Company has three other material U.S. composition patents for formulated pool chemical products that provide the Company with advantages in product shipping and storage. Of these three composition patents, one expires in 2008, one in 2009 and one in 2022. The other patents cover manufacturing processes, other multifunctional formulated products, and chemical feeder systems for residential/commercial pool and municipal water treatment applications. The Company has recently been awarded a patent covering a dissolving chamber design for chlorinator systems.
The Company has an expansive biocides patent portfolio that includes 62 U.S. patents, including process, composition and application patents and numerous foreign counterpart patents. The Company’s biocides business holds several U.S. patents relating to antifouling additives for paints. These patents expire in 2010 and 2012. A substantial majority of the Company’s other biocides patents do not expire until after 2012. Patents for the Company’s key targeted growth areas in its marine antifouling paint and building product biocides businesses include those relating to small particle copper pyrithione process for stable biocide dispersions, gel-free paint containing zinc pyrithione, and “in-can” and “dry film” coating antimicrobial compounds. Biocide patents supporting the Company’s personal care ingredients business include those relating to non-spherical and non-platelet crystalline forms of zinc pyrithione and a method for producing distinct particles of pyrithione salts.
With respect to its wood protection business, the Company owns two significant U.S. composition of matter patents. These patents include one for an additive to the Company’s wood preservative chromated copper arsenate (“CCA”) that improves the climbability of utility poles. This patent expires in 2008. The other is a patent on the Company’s new preservative formulation (WOLMAN®E, Natural Selecttm and Tanalith®E) which expires in 2014. The Company’s patent portfolio also includes patents, both granted and pending, covering fire retardant and other wood preservation technologies.
The Company owns two patents covering processes for producing Ultra Puretm Hydrazine, the world’s purest grade of anhydrous hydrazine, which makes it the preferred propellant for monopropellant satellite thruster applications. These patents expire in 2006.
Seasonality
The Company as a whole usually experiences its highest sales and profits in the second quarter primarily due to sales of its HTH water products line in that quarter. The purchase of water chemical products by consumers in the residential pool market is concentrated in the United States of America between Memorial
Day and the Fourth of July. The water chemical products business principally distributes directly to retail merchants. Sales of these products are strongest in the second and third quarters with the second quarter being the quarter with the most sales of these products. In addition, the weather can also have a significant effect on water chemical and wood treatment sales during any given year with unseasonable wet or cool weather negatively impacting sales.
Backlog
The amount of backlog orders is immaterial to the Company as a whole and to any particular segment.
U.S. Government Contracts and Regulations
In November 2003, the Company secured a 35-month contract, valued at $4.3 million, with the Defense Energy Support Center (“DESC”) for storage and distribution services of its hydrazine-based propellants products. The contract performance began May 1, 2004. In February 2004, the Company was awarded a twenty-five month contract valued at $11.9 million, with the Department of Defense for Ultra Puretm Hydrazine. The contract began January 1, 2005 and will provide fuel for future satellite programs. In April 2004, the Company’s contract to sell hydrazine to the U.S. Government expired and the U.S. Government awarded a new 10-year hydrazine propellant supply contract to another company. The Company protested the award and ultimately the government agreed to re-bid the contract. The Company submitted its new bid on January 20, 2005. In addition, in connection with the re-bidding procedure, the Company filed a complaint in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims protesting various aspects related to the bidding process. As a result of this complaint, the court directed DESC to add to the price of competitors’ bids the shutdown costs related to the Company’s Lake Charles facility that the DESC had agreed to pay to the Company in the event the Company is not awarded the new contract. The Company is pleased with the court’s order. However, its impact is uncertain and there is no assurance that the order will have a significant impact on the bidding process in favor of the Company. Final revised bids are currently due on March 15, 2005. The DESC notified the Company that it anticipates completing its contract-award decision late in the first quarter or early in the second quarter of 2005.
As a government contractor, the Company is subject to extensive and complex U.S. Government procurement laws and regulations. These laws and regulations provide for ongoing government audits and reviews of contract procurement, performance and administration. Failure to comply, even inadvertently, with these laws and regulations and with laws governing the export of controlled products and commodities could subject the Company or one or more of its businesses to civil and criminal penalties and under certain circumstances, suspension and debarment from future government contracts and the exporting of products for a specified period of time. Several of the Company’s products are registered with U.S. EPA under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act and as such are subject to various regulations regarding use and disclosure requirements.
Competition
The Company’s businesses are in highly competitive industries, and the Company encounters strong competition with respect to each of its product lines from other manufacturers worldwide. This competition, from other manufacturers of the same products and from manufacturers of different products designed for the same uses, is expected to continue in both U.S. and foreign markets. Depending on the product involved, various types of competition are encountered, including price, delivery, service, performance, product innovation, product recognition and quality. Overall, the Company believes its principal product groups are competitive with many other products of other producers.
Export Sales
The Company’s export sales from the U.S. to unaffiliated customers were $76.2 million in 2004, $68.6 million in 2003 and $66.7 million in 2002. The financial information about geographic areas contained in
Note 18 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements found in Item 8 of this Report is incorporated herein by reference.
Employees
As of December 31, 2004, the Company had approximately 2,675 employees, approximately 1,400 of whom were working in foreign countries. In addition, the Company also employed at such date approximately 470 seasonal or temporary employees, primarily in the HTH water products business. Approximately 170 of the hourly paid U.S. employees of the Company located at its Brandenburg, Kentucky; Conley, Georgia; and Lake Charles, Louisiana facilities are represented for purposes of collective bargaining by several different labor organizations, and the Company is party to eight labor contracts relating to such employees. These labor contracts extend for three- or four-year terms and expire in the years 2006 and 2007. No major work stoppages have occurred in the last three years. While relations between the Company and its employees and their various representatives are generally considered satisfactory, there can be no assurance that new labor contracts can be entered into without work stoppages. European hourly employees are also represented by unions in various countries.
Responsible Care® Commitment
First adopted as a condition of membership by the American Chemistry Council (“ACC”) in 1988, the Responsible Care® initiative was developed to encourage member companies to continuously improve their performance in the realms of health, safety and the environment.
The ACC’s Responsible Care® initiative encompasses seven critical performance areas: employee health and safety, pollution prevention, manufacturing process safety, security, distribution safety, product stewardship and community awareness and emergency response. Ultimately, this initiative is aimed at making health, safety and environmental protection an integral part of a product’s life cycle - from manufacture, marketing and distribution to use, recycling and disposal.
The Company has developed a management system to drive improvement in all seven areas under Responsible Care®. To make this complex and multifaceted process more compelling and to give it a sense of urgency, it has developed what it calls “The Goal is Zero” initiative. It recognizes a fundamental truth at the heart of Responsible Care® - that no amount of harm to people or the environment is acceptable.
The Company’s manufacturing plant in Rochester, New York, which makes industrial biocides, ingredients for cosmetic and personal care products and an advanced wood preservative, was the first plant in America to be certified under the new Responsible Care® RC 14001 standard that broadly covers performance in the realms of environmental quality, workplace health and safety, plant security and community outreach. The plant received this certification after a rigorous series of audits by ABS Quality Evaluations, an independent registrar based in Houston, Texas. Using standards developed by the Registrars Accreditation Board, auditors from ABS examined the Company’s Rochester plant’s management systems and related quality controls in all seven performance areas covered under the ACC’s signature Responsible Care® initiative. In addition, Arch was the first ACC member whose corporate headquarters earned certification under the new Responsible Care® Management System requirements.
As its very name implies, the Company’s “Goal is Zero” initiative is indeed aimed at achieving zero employee and contractor injuries, zero manufacturing process incidents, zero distribution incidents, and zero environmental incidents. The Company’s facilities ranging from Salto, Brazil to Valparaiso, Indiana have at times achieved the ultimate goal in each or all of these categories. The following summarizes the Company’s performance in each of the Goal is Zero targeted areas:
Goal One: Zero Recordable Injuries. While some of the Company’s facilities have achieved this goal, overall, the Company’s rate of employee recordable injuries (the number of work-related injuries per 200,000 hours worked) has declined from 3.16 in 1999 to 1.51 in 2004. By contrast, the average recordable injury rate for all U.S. manufacturers was 6.7 in 2003. The Company also made excellent progress in reducing contractor recordables, which have fallen from 6.30 in 1999 to 0.29 in 2004.
Responsible Care® is a registered trademark of the ACC.
Goal Two: Zero Manufacturing Process Safety Incidents. These incidents are defined to include fires, explosions and toxic releases that resulted in a lost-time injury, off-site consequences or greater than $25,000 of damages. Since the Distribution and until 2004, the Company never had more than one process incident in a year. However, in 2004 it had four such incidents.
Goal Three: Zero Environmental Incidents. This goal refers to incidents such as chemical spills or emissions that are reportable because they exceed strict limits established in state, federal or foreign laws and regulations. The Company’s performance has significantly improved, moving from 18 environmental incidents in 1999 to nine for all of 2004.
Goal Four: Zero Distribution Incidents. Under this goal, the Company strives to achieve zero significant incidents such as spills during the transportation of its products. Performance is measured in terms of distribution incidents per 1,000 U.S. domestic shipments, and this rate has declined from 4.17 in 1999 to 0.50 in 2004.
The Company is pleased with the progress of and results derived from its Responsible Care Program. It remains committed, however, to achieving further improvements and realizing its ultimate goal - the “Goal is Zero” for each of the above categories.
Environmental Matters
The Company operates manufacturing facilities throughout the world and as a result is subject to a broad array of environmental laws and regulations in various countries. The Company also implements a variety of voluntary programs to reduce air emissions, eliminate or reduce the generation of hazardous wastes and to decrease the amount of wastewater discharges. The establishment and implementation of U.S. federal, state and local standards to regulate air and water quality and to govern contamination of land and groundwater has affected and will continue to affect substantially all of the Company’s U.S. manufacturing locations. Federal legislation providing for regulation of the manufacture, transportation, use and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances has imposed additional regulatory requirements on industry in general, and particularly on the chemicals industry. In addition, the implementation of environmental laws, such as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, has required and will continue to require new capital expenditures and will increase operating costs.
The Distribution Agreement, dated as of February 1, 1999 (the “Distribution Agreement”), between the Company and Olin relating to the Distribution, specifies that the Company is only responsible for certain environmental liabilities at the Company’s then current facilities and certain off-site locations with respect to the businesses acquired from Olin in the Distribution. The Company has also become subject to environmental exposures and potential liabilities in the U.S. and abroad with respect to the businesses it purchased following the Distribution. In connection with the acquisition of Hickson, the Company acquired certain environmental exposures and potential liabilities of current and past operating sites, all of which have been accrued for in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
In connection with the disposition of the majority of the microelectronic materials business on November 30, 2004, the Company provided indemnification for environmental concerns. For identified environmental liabilities as of the transition date, there is no limit to the liability retained by the Company. The Company estimates such potential liability to be less than $1.0 million. For other pre-closing environmental liabilities the purchaser will be liable for the first $3.0 million of any such liabilities and the parties will share equally the next $6.0 million of any such liabilities with the Company’s total exposure thus limited to $3.0 million over a five-year period from the closing date.
In connection with the disposition of the sulfuric acid business on July 2, 2003, the Company provided environmental covenants to the purchaser in which the Company is solely liable for the costs of any environmental claim for remediation of any hazardous substances that were generated, managed, treated, stored or disposed of prior to the closing date of the sale. The Company will be released, under the sales agreement, from its obligation, which cannot exceed $22.5 million, 20 years from the closing date.
Additionally, as part of its environmental indemnifications the Company will be responsible for damages directly related to the process sewer system at the Beaumont, Texas plant during the first five years from the closing date.
As part of the Hickson organics disposition, the Company will continue to be responsible for known environmental matters. Such matters have previously been accrued for in its environmental reserve included in the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, regarding any unknown environmental matters that are identified subsequent to the sale, the Company has agreed to share responsibility with the purchaser over a seven-year period, with the Company’s share decreasing to zero over the seven-year period. The Company’s maximum aggregate liability for such unknown environmental matters is £5.0 million.
The Company does not anticipate any material exposure related to the environmental indemnifications for the microelectronic materials, the sulfuric acid and the Hickson organics dispositions. The Company has estimated that the fair value of any such additional exposure would be immaterial.
Associated costs of investigatory and remedial activities are provided for in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles governing probability and the ability to reasonably estimate future costs. Charges to income for investigatory and remedial efforts of $2.4 million were recorded in 2004 and were not material to operating results in 2003 and 2002, but may be material in future years.
Cash outlays for normal plant operations for the disposal of waste and the operation and maintenance of pollution control equipment and facilities to ensure compliance with mandated and voluntarily imposed environmental quality standards were charged to income. Cash outlays for remedial activities are charged to reserves. Historically, the Company has funded its environmental capital expenditures through cash flows from operations and expects to do so in the future.
Cash outlays for environmental related activities for 2004, 2003 and 2002 were as follows:
The Company’s consolidated balance sheets included liabilities for future environmental expenditures to investigate and remediate known sites amounting to $8.3 million at December 31, 2004, of which $3.3 million is classified as other current liabilities and $5.0 million is classified as other noncurrent liabilities and $8.6 million at December 31, 2003, of which $3.3 million is classified as other current liabilities and $5.3 million is classified as other noncurrent liabilities. The Company’s estimated environmental liability relates to seven sites, six of which are in the United States and none of which are on the U.S. National Priority List. These amounts did not take into account any discounting of future expenditures, any consideration of insurance recoveries or any advances in technology. These liabilities are reassessed periodically to determine if environmental circumstances have changed or if the costs of remediation efforts can be better estimated. As a result of these reassessments, future charges to income may be made for additional liabilities.
Annual environmental-related cash outlays for site investigation and remediation, capital projects and normal plant operations are expected to range from $10 million to $15 million over the next several years. While the Company does not anticipate a material increase in the projected annual level of its environmental-related costs, there is always the possibility that such increases may occur in the future in view of the uncertainties associated with environmental exposures.
Environmental exposures are difficult to assess for numerous reasons, including the identification of new sites, developments at sites resulting from investigatory studies, advances in technology, changes in environ-
mental laws and regulations and their application, the scarcity of reliable data pertaining to identified sites, the difficulty in assessing the involvement and financial capability of other potentially responsible parties and the Company’s ability to obtain contributions from other parties and the lengthy time periods over which site remediation occurs. It is possible that some of these matters (the outcomes of which are subject to various uncertainties) may be resolved unfavorably against the Company and may have a materially adverse impact on the Company’s business. At December 31, 2004, the Company had estimated additional contingent environmental liabilities of $7.3 million.
Item 2.
Properties
The table below sets forth the primary locations where the Company has offices or conducts operations, including some joint venture sites, along with a brief description of the activities conducted at each identified location. A more detailed description of the Company’s principal manufacturing facilities follows the table. The Company believes that its facilities are sufficiently maintained and suitable and adequate for its immediate needs and that additional space is available to accommodate expansion. Except for locations identified as relating to a joint venture that are owned or leased by the joint venture or unless otherwise noted below, the identified location is owned by the Company.
Location
Primary Activities
McIntosh, Alabama(1)
Blending and storage facility for performance products
Mesa, Arizona(2)
CMP development, manufacturing and applications center for Planar Solutions, LLC joint venture
Cheshire, Connecticut(2)
Research and development facility and offices for treatment products
New Castle, Delaware(2)
Research laboratory and testing site for HTH water products
Norwalk, Connecticut(2)
Worldwide corporate headquarters
Conley, Georgia
Technical center and manufacturing facility for wood protection and industrial coatings
Smyrna, Georgia(2)
Office facility for treatment products
Bethalto, Illinois(2)
Corporate data center
Brandenburg, Kentucky
Manufacturing facility for performance products and technical center for wood protection and industrial coatings
Lake Charles, Louisiana
Manufacturing facility for performance products
Adrian, Michigan(3)
Manufacturing facility for Planar Solutions, LLC joint venture
South Plainfield, New Jersey
Research and development facility and office space for personal care and industrial biocides
Rochester, New York
Manufacturing facility for personal care and industrial biocides and wood protection and industrial coatings
Charleston, Tennessee(4)
Manufacturing facility for HTH water products
Trentham, Victoria, Australia
Office and manufacturing facility for the treatment products’ Koppers Arch joint venture
Igarassu, Brazil
Facility of a joint venture for the manufacture of HTH water products
Location
Primary Activities
Salto, Brazil
Manufacturing facility for HTH water products and performance products
Suzhou, China
Warehouse, manufacturing facility and technical support center for personal care and industrial biocides and wood protection and industrial coatings
Blackley, England(2)
Office facility and laboratory for personal care and industrial biocides
Castleford, England(4)
Office facility, manufacturing facility and technical center for treatment products
Grangemouth, England(3)
Manufacturing facility for personal care and industrial biocides and HTH water products
Huddersfield, England(2)
Manufacturing and laboratory facilities for personal care and industrial biocides
Knottingley, England(2)
Office, warehouse, manufacturing facilities and technical center for wood protection and industrial coatings
Preston, England
Wood treatment facility for wood protection and industrial coatings
Seal Sands, England
Manufacturing facility for personal care and industrial biocides
Amboise, France(2)
Manufacturing, distribution and warehouse facility for HTH water products
Les Mureaux, France
Office, manufacturing and laboratory facility for treatment products
Amsterdam, Holland(2)
Wood treatment facility for treatment products
Swords, Ireland
Manufacturing facility for personal care and industrial biocides
Mariano Comense, Italy
Manufacturing and research and development facility for wood protection and industrial coatings
Pianoro, Italy
Manufacturing, research and development and office facility for wood protection and industrial coatings
Auckland, New Zealand
Office and manufacturing facility for the Koppers Arch joint venture
Kempton Park, South Africa
Manufacturing facility for the manufacture of HTH water products
Valencia, Spain
Manufacturing and distribution facility for wood protection and industrial coatings
Maracaibo, Venezuela
Manufacturing facility for performance products
(1)
Land only is leased.
(2)
Leased facility.
(3)
Land and building owned by a third party.
(4)
Portions are leased and portions are owned.
The Company also leases several sales offices and warehouse facilities in the U.S. and in foreign countries.
Principal Manufacturing Facilities
The principal manufacturing properties of the Company described below are all owned by the Company, except for the land under the McIntosh plant and part of the land under the Charleston facility which are being leased from Olin and except for properties held by joint ventures or otherwise noted below. The Company also has products that are produced by third parties under contract manufacturing arrangements.
McIntosh, Alabama. The Company’s facility located in McIntosh, Alabama blends, packages and stores propellant grade hydrazine products. Special hydrazine fuel blends are produced as the principal propellant for several U.S. Air Force launch vehicle programs, including the Titan and Delta rockets.
Conley, Georgia. This is the Company’s major facility for its wood treatment business in the U.S. Currently, all of the Company’s CCA is produced at this location and some of it is sent by rail to the Company’s Kalama, Washington facility for distribution to customers in the Western U.S. CCA is also bulk shipped from this plant to the Company’s other CCA customers and to its Valparaiso, Indiana facility. A 72% CCA concentrate is also produced at this facility. This site also produces the Company’s CCA-alternative products. Office facilities and a technical center for treatment products are also located at this facility.
Brandenburg, Kentucky. The ISO 9001-2000-certified Brandenburg plant covers an area of 200 acres, surrounded by 1,200 acres of land that provides both a buffer zone and expansion capability. The plant contains multiple manufacturing facilities producing a wide range of products. Many of these products are derivatives of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide. A broad line of specialty polyols are produced in a flexible batch facility and sold into urethane coatings, adhesives, sealant and elastomer applications. Under a contract manufacturing agreement with the purchaser of the majority of the operations of the Company’s microelectronic chemicals business, the Company produces chemical intermediates for such microelectronic business in a separate manufacturing facility dedicated to this purpose at this site. There is a research and development and technical center at the site that supports the development and technical service needs of the polyol and glycol products and wood coatings products. The Company also operates other facilities on the site to produce commodity and specialty chemicals for third parties under long-term contractual arrangements.
Lake Charles, Louisiana. The Company’s facility located in Lake Charles, Louisiana consists of three manufacturing plants that produce various hydrazine products. One ISO 9002-certified plant produces solution grade hydrazine products for use in chemical blowing agents, water treatment chemicals, agricultural products, pharmaceutical intermediates and other chemical products. This plant is currently idled. A second ISO 9002-certified plant which was idled in 2004 following expiration of the hydrazine propellants contract with the U.S. Government, produced propellant grade hydrazine products, including anhydrous hydrazine, unsymmetrical dimethyl hydrazine and monomethyl hydrazine for use as fuel in satellites, expendable launch vehicles and auxiliary power units. Additional equipment of the Company at this site produces propellant grade Ultra Puretm Hydrazine, the world’s purest grade of anhydrous hydrazine, principally for satellite propulsion.
Rochester, New York. This ISO 9002- and RC 14001-certified facility manufactures a large number of chemicals for the specialty chemicals industry. Many of these chemicals are biocides used to control dandruff on the scalp and to control the growth of microorganisms, particularly fungi and algae. The largest 2-Chloropyridine production facility in the world is located here. 2-Chloropyridine is the key intermediate used to produce the Company’s Omadine® biocides. These products are based on the salts of the pyrithione molecule. The Company manufactures over a dozen pyrithione products at this site by modifying these salts by concentration, form or combining them with other biocides. This plant also manufactures the Company’s Triadine® brand of biocides which are a combination of pyrithione and triazine, a bactericide purchased from a supplier. This facility also produces the Omacide® IPBC brand biocide, which is based upon iodopropargyl-n-butylcarbamate, a broad-spectrum fungicide. This facility also manufactures personal care specialty ingredients for the Company’s personal care product line and Wolman®E for the Company’s wood protection business.
Charleston, Tennessee. The Company’s ISO 9002-certified facility located in Charleston, Tennessee primarily produces, packages and stores calcium hypochlorite for the HTH water products business. At this
plant, products are packaged into containers that range in size from 5 pounds to 2,000 pounds per container. Liquid and dry pool maintenance products are also blended, packaged and stored at this site.
Trentham, Victoria, Australia. This Koppers Arch joint venture facility produces CCA-based wood preservatives for the Australian market. The sales office services the Victoria, South Australian and Western Australian markets. The site is ISO 9002-certified.
Igarassu, Brazil. The Company’s facility located in Igarassu, Brazil is a joint venture operation (Nordesclor S.A.) that produces and packages calcium hypochlorite for the HTH water products business within Brazil. Certain other products for the swimming pool market and the water treatment market are packaged at this site. The Company also has a small repackaging facility in Salto, Brazil. The Salto facility also blends and manufactures products for the performance products business.
Grangemouth, England. This manufacturing site is owned and operated by Avecia under a toll manufacturing arrangement with the Company. The Company owns all of the equipment used in the direct manufacture of PHMB products as well as the HMBDA (Hexamethylene-1,6-Bis-Dicyandiamide) intermediate. The PHMB product is produced in various solutions and in a solid format. It is used by the Company’s HTH water products business to produce Baquacil®, BaquaSpa® and related swimming pool and spa treatment chemicals, and it is also used in products sold by the industrial biocides business under the Vantocil® and Reputex® brands for various end-use applications, including consumer-focused health and hygiene products. PHMB is also used in products sold under the Cosmocil® brand for cosmetic and personal care applications.
Huddersfield, England. This ISO-9001-certified leased facility produces and packages Proxel® and Densil® biocide blends (which are based on BIT) for sale by Arch’s industrial biocides business. The facility also ships the BIT active ingredients to formulators worldwide. This site is one of the world’s largest BIT production facilities. The products are packed in a variety of sizes from 25kg to full tank truck shipments. There are approximately 25 different product offerings.
Seal Sands, England. This ISO-9001 and ISO 14001 facility produces and packages the intermediate product used at the Huddersfield site in BIT production. The intermediate is DTBA (2,2-Dithiodibenzoic Acid). The majority of the product is consumed internally at Huddersfield. Product is shipped in totes for easy transport and handling.
Les Mureaux, France. This ISO 9002-certified facility is located just northwest of Paris, France and serves as European headquarters for water treatment products and French headquarters for personal care ingredient products, timber products and coating products. It also manufactures a limited supply of coatings for the French furniture market. The site also repackages and sells a line of industrial coatings produced by the Company’s Italian operations.
Swords, Ireland. This facility is located just north of Dublin, Ireland. 2-Chloropyridine is imported from the Company’s Rochester, New York plant and other sources and converted into zinc and copper salts of the pyrithione molecule. The products are shipped to customers in Europe and over fifty countries around the world. This facility is both ISO 9002- and ISO 14001-certified.
Mariano Comense, Italy. This ISO 9002-certified facility serves as the primary manufacturing location for the Company’s UV-based product line for its coatings business. It also serves as a distribution location. Some product development work is also performed here.
Pianoro, Italy. This ISO 9002-certified and ISO 14001-certified facility serves as the primary manufacturing location and research and development center for the industrial coatings business. It produces the Sayerlack® and Linea Blu® branded products that include both solvent- and water-borne urethane systems, solvents, stains and colors. In addition, the central management for the distribution of these products throughout Italy and various export markets is located here.
Kempton Park, South Africa. The Company’s facility produces and packages calcium hypochlorite for the HTH water products business principally within the Southern Africa region. Products for the swimming pool and water treatment markets are also packaged at this site.
Maracaibo, Venezuela. The Company’s ISO 9002-certified facility is a multi-product manufacturing plant producing a broad range of polyols, demulsifiers, and specialty surfactants to support regional markets. Specialty polyols are also produced for local consumption and export.
Item 3.