Item 2 of this report.
Wisconsin Electric's average total fuel costs per million British thermal units by fuel type for the years ended December 31 are shown below.
During 1999, Wisconsin Electric's generation was supplemented with 3.8 million megawatt-hours of power purchases from neighboring utilities, from an independent power producer with whom Wisconsin Electric has a long-term power purchase contract, and, to a minor extent, from other sources. Wisconsin Electric purchased 4.5 million megawatt-hours and 5.5 million megawatt-hours of electric energy during 1998 and 1997, respectively.
EDISON SAULT: During 1999, Edison Sault generated 24% of its total electric energy requirements with its hydroelectric plant and purchased the remaining 76% of such requirements. Edison Sault's total average generating capability is 34.6 megawatts as more fully described in Item 2 of this report.
Coal-Fired Generation
COAL SUPPLY: Wisconsin Electric diversifies coal sources for its power plants in the states of Wisconsin and Michigan by purchasing from mines in northern and central Appalachia as well as from various western mines. During 2000, 99% of Wisconsin Electric's projected coal requirements of 11.3 million tons will be under contract. Wisconsin Electric does not anticipate any problem in procuring its remaining 2000 coal requirements through short-term or spot purchases and inventory adjustments. Following is a summary of the annual tonnage amounts for Wisconsin Electric's principal long-term coal contracts by the month and year in which the contracts expire.
As of the beginning of 2000, Wisconsin Electric had approximately a 124-day supply of coal in inventory at its coal-fired facilities.
Approximately 80% of Wisconsin Electric's 2000 coal requirements are expected to be delivered by Wisconsin Electric-owned unit trains. The unit trains will transport coal for the Oak Creek and Pleasant Prairie Power Plants from Pennsylvania, New Mexico and Wyoming mines. Coal from Pennsylvania and Colorado mines is also transported via rail to Lake Erie or Lake Michigan transfer docks and delivered to the Valley and Port Washington Power Plants by lake vessels. Coal from central Appalachia is shipped via rail to Lake Erie transfer docks and delivered to the Milwaukee County Power Plant by truck once it arrives by lake vessel in Milwaukee. Montana and Wyoming coal for Presque Isle Power Plant is transported via rail to Superior, Wisconsin, placed in dock storage and reloaded into lake vessels for plant delivery. Central Appalachian and Colorado coal bound for Presque Isle Power Plant is shipped via rail to Lake Erie and Lake Michigan (Chicago) coal transfer docks, respectively, for lake vessel delivery to the plant.
During 1997, coal deliveries to certain Wisconsin Electric generating facilities as well as to the electric generating facilities of many other utilities were impaired by massive congestion problems on the Union Pacific Railroad. Coal delivery performance improved during 1998 and 1999, and Wisconsin Electric does not anticipate problems during 2000. During the fall of 1997, Wisconsin Electric completed construction of a rail spur at the Pleasant Prairie Power Plant, which burns over 40% of Wisconsin Electric's annual coal requirements. The new rail spur, connecting to the rail line of a competitor of the Union Pacific Railroad, provides Wisconsin Electric with another means of delivery to Pleasant Prairie.
PLEASANT PRAIRIE POWER PLANT: All of the estimated 2000 coal requirements for this plant are presently under contract.
OAK CREEK POWER PLANT: All of the estimated 2000 coal requirements for this plant are presently under contract or agreed upon in principle.
PRESQUE ISLE POWER PLANT: All of the estimated 2000 coal requirements for this plant are presently under contract.
EDGEWATER 5 GENERATING UNIT: Coal for this unit, in which Wisconsin Electric has a 25% interest, is purchased by the majority owner of the facility, Wisconsin Power and Light Company, a subsidiary of Alliant Energy Resources.
VALLEY AND PORT WASHINGTON POWER PLANTS: Coal requirements for these plants will be supplied in 2000 under existing contracts or contracts that have been agreed upon in principle.
MILWAUKEE COUNTY POWER PLANT: Coal for this facility is purchased by Wisconsin Electric through annual spot purchases.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS: For information regarding emission restrictions, especially as they relate to coal-fired generating facilities, see "Environmental Compliance" below.
Nuclear Generation
POINT BEACH NUCLEAR PLANT: Wisconsin Electric owns and operates two approximately 510-megawatt electric generating units at Point Beach Nuclear Plant in Two Rivers, Wisconsin. Point Beach provided approximately 6% of Wisconsin Electric's net electric energy supply during 1997 compared to 18% during 1998 and 22% during 1999, reflecting extended outages during 1997. The United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission operating licenses for Point Beach expire in October 2010 for Unit 1 and in March 2013 for Unit 2. For additional information concerning Point Beach, see "Factors Affecting Results of Operations - Nuclear Matters" in Item 7 of this report.
NUCLEAR MANAGEMENT COMPANY: In mid-2000, Wisconsin Electric currently expects to transfer operating responsibility for Point Beach Nuclear Plant along with operating authority under the plant's operating licenses to a management company, the Nuclear Management Company, LLC, which has been formed with affiliates of three other unaffiliated investor-owned utilities in the region. For further information, see "Factors Affecting Results of Operations - Nuclear Matters" in Item 7 of this report.
NUCLEAR FUEL SUPPLY: Wisconsin Electric purchases uranium concentrates ("Yellowcake") and contracts for its conversion, enrichment and fabrication. Wisconsin Electric maintains title to the nuclear fuel until fabricated fuel assemblies are delivered to Point Beach, whereupon it is sold to and leased back from the Wisconsin Electric Fuel Trust. For further information concerning this nuclear fuel lease, see "Note H" or "Note G - Long-Term Debt" in Wisconsin Energy's or Wisconsin Electric's Notes to Financial Statements, respectively, in Item 8 of this report.
URANIUM REQUIREMENTS: Wisconsin Electric requires approximately 400,000 pounds of Yellowcake to refuel a generating unit at Point Beach. During 1998, Wisconsin Electric initiated staggered, extended fuel cycles that are expected to average approximately 18 months in duration. The supply of Yellowcake for these refuelings is currently provided through one long-term contract, which provides between 60% to 100% of annual requirements under these staggered, extended fuel cycles. Wisconsin Electric may exercise flexibility available in this contract and purchase certain quantities of uranium on the spot market, should the market conditions prove favorable. Negotiations for the supply of the quantity of uranium not covered by the long-term contract will be ongoing during 2000.
CONVERSION: Wisconsin Electric has a long-term contract with a provider of uranium conversion services to supply 75% of the conversion requirements for the Point Beach reactors from 2000 through 2004. Wisconsin Electric has an additional long-term conversion contract with a second conversion supplier to supply the remaining 25% of Wisconsin Electric's annual conversion requirements.
ENRICHMENT: Wisconsin Electric currently has two long-term contracts for the supply of enriched uranium. The combination of the two contracts provides for 100% of the required enrichment services for the Point Beach reactors through the year 2006. The final enriched uranium delivery under one of the enrichment contracts is currently scheduled for November 2000.
FABRICATION: Fabrication of fuel assemblies from enriched uranium for Point Beach is covered under a contract with Westinghouse Electric Corporation for the balance of the plant's current operating license. During 1995, an agreement was reached between Wisconsin Electric and Westinghouse to supply Wisconsin Electric with a new fuel design beginning in the fall of 1997. The 1995 agreement was modified in November 1996 due to delayed licensing of a new analysis method desired for the use of the new fuel design. Current plans now assume initial use of the new fuel design in the fall of the year 2000. The new fuel design is expected to provide additional safety margin and cost savings and to reduce the number of discharged spent fuel assemblies over the remaining operating license.
SPENT FUEL STORAGE & DISPOSAL: Wisconsin Electric currently has the capacity to store limited amounts of spent nuclear fuel in the spent fuel pool at Point Beach Nuclear Plant. In addition, Wisconsin Electric completed construction of an Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installation in 1995 for the temporary dry storage of spent fuel at Point Beach. For information concerning spent fuel storage and disposal issues, see "Factors Affecting Results of Operations - Nuclear Matters" in Item 7 of this report.
NUCLEAR DECOMMISSIONING: Wisconsin Electric provides for costs associated with the eventual decommissioning of Point Beach through the use of an external trust fund. Payments to this fund, together with investment earnings, brought the balance in the trust fund at December 31, 1999 to approximately $626 million. For additional information regarding decommissioning, see "Note E - Nuclear Operations" in the Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.
NUCLEAR PLANT INSURANCE: For information regarding nuclear plant insurance, see "Note E - Nuclear Operations" in the Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.
Hydroelectric Generation
WISCONSIN ELECTRIC: Wisconsin Electric's hydroelectric generating system consists of fifteen operating plants with a total installed capacity of approximately 90 megawatts. Of these fifteen plants, fourteen are licensed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The fifteenth plant, with an installed generating capacity of approximately 2 megawatts, does not require a license. Four of the fifteen plants, representing 26 megawatts of installed capacity, have received new long-term licenses from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Wisconsin Electric is in the process of selling one plant with an installed generating capacity of approximately 1 megawatt to an independent party.
Wisconsin Electric is seeking renewal of the remaining eight operating licenses from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for licenses that expired or expire during the period 1998 to 2001. Key issues concerning relicensing of these eight plants were covered by the Wilderness Shores Settlement Agreement, signed in February 1997. The agreement was the culmination of more than two years of negotiations between Wisconsin Electric and representatives of the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, the Michigan Department of Natural Resources, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the Wisconsin Department of Administration, the National Park Service and two river/recreational organizations: the Michigan Hydro Relicensing Coalition and the River Alliance of Wisconsin. Wisconsin Electric expects the Wilderness Shores Settlement Agreement to assure the continued profitable operation of its hydroelectric system in the Upper Menominee River Basin as well as the protection of associated land and water resources for 40 years following license renewal by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
Wisconsin Electric's hydroelectric facilities covered by the Wilderness Shores Settlement Agreement are the Big Quinnesec Falls, Kingsford, Michigamme Falls, Twin Falls, Lower Paint Dam, Peavy Falls, Hemlock Falls and Way Dam Projects, representing a total of 59 megawatts of installed capacity. In September 1999, Wisconsin Electric filed an applicant-prepared environmental assessment, license applications and the Wilderness Shores Settlement Agreement with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission as well as a surrender application for the Sturgeon plant. Wisconsin Electric expects the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to issue the orders related to this filing by October 2000.
For additional information concerning Wisconsin Electric's hydroelectric generating facilities, see Item 2 in this report.
EDISON SAULT: Edison Sault's primary source of generation is its 30-megawatt hydroelectric generating plant located on the St. Marys River in Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan. The water for this facility is leased under a contract with the United States Corps of Engineers with tenure to December 31, 2050. However, the Secretary of the Army has the right to terminate the contract subsequent to December 2020. Edison Sault pays for all water taken from the St. Marys River at predetermined rates with a minimum annual payment of $100,000. The total flow of water taken out of Lake Superior, which in effect is the flow of water in the St. Marys River, is under the direction and control of the International Joint Commission, created by the Boundary Water Treaty of 1909 between the United States and Great Britain, now represented by Canada.
Water elevation levels on Lake Superior have been below normal levels since May 1998. As a result, the International Joint Commission has placed limitations on the flow of water from Lake Superior that limits Edison Sault's amount of hydroelectric generation. During any limited flow months, it is necessary for Edison Sault to purchase additional power from other sources and increase the use of Edison Sault's diesel generation.
Hydroelectric generation is also purchased by Edison Sault under contract from the United States Corps of Engineers' hydroelectric generating plant located within the Soo Locks complex on the St. Marys River in Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan. This 17-megawatt contract has a tenure to November 1, 2040 and cannot be terminated by the United States government prior to November 1, 2030.
During 1999, hydroelectric energy provided 42% of Edison Sault's total energy requirements of which 24% was generated by Edison Sault's facility and 18% was purchased from the United States Corps of Engineers.
Natural Gas-Fired Generation
The Concord and Paris Combustion Turbine Power Plants and the Oak Creek combustion turbine use natural gas as their primary fuel, with fuel oil as backup. Natural gas is also used for boiler ignition and flame stabilization purposes for the Pleasant Prairie and Oak Creek Power Plants. Gas for these plants is purchased on the spot market from gas marketers and/or producers and delivered on the local distribution system of Wisconsin Electric's gas operations.
An interruptible balancing and storage agreement with ANR Pipeline is intended to facilitate the variable gas usage pattern of the combustion turbine plants.
Natural gas for the gas-fired boiler at the Milwaukee County Power Plant and for boiler ignition and flame stabilization at the Valley Power Plant is purchased under an agency agreement with a gas marketing company. The agent purchases natural gas and arranges for interstate pipeline transportation to the local gas distribution utility. The local gas distribution utilities then transport Wisconsin Electric's gas to each plant under interruptible tariffs.
Wisconsin Electric's gas operations is the distribution utility for Concord, Paris, Pleasant Prairie and Oak Creek Power Plants. Wisconsin Gas Company, an unaffiliated company, is the distribution utility for the Valley and Milwaukee County Power Plants. For information concerning Wisconsin Energy's pending acquisition of Wisconsin Gas Company's parent company, WICOR, Inc., see "Factors Affecting Results of Operations - Mergers" in Item 7 of this report.
Natural gas will be the primary fuel for Germantown Power Plant Unit 5, an 85-megawatt unit presently under construction, and for a 300-megawatt peaking power plant currently being built by a subsidiary of Southern Energy, Inc. in Neenah, Wisconsin. Wisconsin Electric will purchase all of the power generated by this new unaffiliated plant. Both facilities will be directly connected to the ANR Pipeline, with no gas distribution utility involvement. Firm gas transportation has been contracted for during the peak summer period between the Joliet gas trading hub south of Chicago, Illinois and the plant interconnects. Gas will be purchased at the Joliet hub. For further information concerning construction of Germantown Unit 5, see "Factors Affecting Results of Operations - Electric System Reliability Matters" in Item 7 of this report. For further information concerning Southern Energy's 300-megawatt power plant, see "Purchase Power Commitments" below.
Oil-Fired Generation
Fuel oil is used for the combustion turbines at the Point Beach, Germantown and Port Washington Power Plants. It is also used for boiler ignition and flame stabilization at the Presque Isle Power Plant, as backup for ignition at the Pleasant Prairie Power Plant and as a backup fuel for the natural gas-fired gas turbines discussed above. Fuel oil requirements are purchased under partnering agreements with suppliers that assist Wisconsin Electric with inventory tracking and oil market price trends.
Subject to various regulatory approvals, four existing generating units at the Germantown Power Plant will be converted, one unit per year from 2001 to 2004, to dual fuel (natural gas and oil). As noted above, a fifth dual fuel combustion turbine is planned to begin commercial operation at Germantown Power Plant in 2000. For further information about these Germantown Power Plant projects, see "Factors Affecting Results of Operations - Electric System Reliability Matters" in Item 7 of this report.
Purchase Power Commitments
WISCONSIN ELECTRIC: To meet a portion of Wisconsin Electric's anticipated increase in future electric energy supply needs, Wisconsin Electric has entered into separate long-term power purchase contracts with subsidiaries of Cogentrix Energy, Inc. and Southern Energy, Inc.
The contract with LSP-Whitewater, LP, a subsidiary of Cogentrix Energy, Inc., for 236 megawatts of firm capacity from a gas-fired cogeneration facility located in Whitewater, Wisconsin, includes no minimum energy requirements. Wisconsin Electric treats this power purchase contract as a capital lease. For additional information, see "Note H" or "Note G - Long-Term Debt" in Wisconsin Energy's or Wisconsin Electric's Notes to Financial Statements, respectively, in Item 8 of this report.
In August 1998, Wisconsin Electric entered into a power purchase agreement with SEI-Wisconsin, a subsidiary of Southern Energy, Inc., for SEI-Wisconsin to design, construct, own and operate a 300-megawatt gas turbine peaking facility in the town of Neenah, Wisconsin and to provide the output of this facility to Wisconsin Electric for eight years. The facility is scheduled for commercial operation by June 2000. The purchase power agreement is similar in structure to arrangements commonly referred to in the electric industry as a "tolling arrangement." That is, Wisconsin Electric delivers fuel to the facility and takes away electric power. Wisconsin Electric pays SEI-Wisconsin a "toll" to convert Wisconsin Electric's fuel into the electric energy. The entire output of the facility will be available for Wisconsin Electric to dispatch during the eight year term of the agreement. For further information, see "Factors Affecting Results of Operations - Electric System Reliability Matters" in Item 7 of this report.
As a result of the existing regulatory environment in the state of Wisconsin, Wisconsin Electric currently expects to utilize purchase power commitments similar to the agreement with SEI- Wisconsin to meet its electric demand load growth where appropriate.
In the normal course of business, Wisconsin Electric utilizes contracts of various duration for the forward purchase of electricity to meet load requirements in an economic manner and when the anticipated market price for electric energy is below Wisconsin Electric's expected incremental cost of generation. Contracts of this nature are one of the power supply resources Wisconsin Electric uses to meet its reliability requirements.
EDISON SAULT: To meet 76% of its energy requirements, Edison Sault purchased the following megawatt-hours from the following sources under contracts during 1999.
Interconnections with Other Utilities
WISCONSIN ELECTRIC: Wisconsin Electric's system is interconnected at various locations with the systems of Commonwealth Edison Company, Madison Gas and Electric Company, Northern States Power Company, Upper Peninsula Power Company, Wisconsin Power and Light Company, Wisconsin Public Service Corporation and the Marquette, Michigan Board of Light and Power. These interconnections provide for interchange of power to assure system reliability as well as facilitating access to generating capacity and the transfer of energy for economic purposes.
Wisconsin Electric is a member of Mid-America Interconnected Network, Inc., which is one of ten regional members of the North American Electric Reliability Council. Membership in these groups permits better utilization of reserve generating capacity and coordination of long-range system planning and day-to-day operations.
EDISON SAULT: Edison Sault's electric transmission system is directly interconnected with the systems of Consumers Energy Company and Cloverland Electric Cooperative. With completion of the Central Upper Peninsula Transmission Project in the spring of 2000, Edison Sault will also be interconnected with the electric transmission system of Wisconsin Electric. Edison Sault is currently a member of the East Central Area Reliability Council, another regional member of the North American Electric Reliability Council.
MIDWEST ISO: Wisconsin Electric is currently participating in the formation of a regional independent electric transmission system operator to promote reliability and to ensure nondiscriminatory open electric transmission access in the Midwest. For further information, see "Factors Affecting Results of Operations - Electric System Reliability Matters" in Item 7 of this report.
TRANSMISSION COMPANY: In response to 1999 Wisconsin Act 9, Wisconsin legislation enacted in October 1999, Wisconsin Electric has agreed to join the American Transmission Company, LLC by contributing its transmission assets in exchange for an equity interest in the new company. For further information, see "Factors Affecting Results of Operations - Industry Restructuring and Competition" in Item 7 of this report.
Renewable Electric Energy
1999 Wisconsin Act 9 also includes a renewable portfolio standard that will require retail energy providers in the state of Wisconsin, like Wisconsin Electric, to obtain an increasing percentage of their energy supply from renewable resources. Beginning in 2001, retail energy providers must provide 0.5% of their Wisconsin retail electric sales from renewable energy, with the percentage increasing to 2.2% by the year 2011.
In May 1999, the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin approved Wisconsin Electric's request to expand its "energy for tomorrow" renewable energy program to allow participation of virtually all of its firm load customers in Wisconsin. In November 1999, the Michigan Public Service Commission approved Wisconsin Electric's request to offer the "energy for tomorrow" renewable energy program to all of its firm load customers in the state of Michigan. The program currently has 11,300 participants.
For information concerning efforts by Wisconsin Electric to obtain additional sources of renewable electric energy, see "Factors Affecting Results of Operations - Electric System Reliability Matters" in Item 7 of this report.
GAS OPERATIONS
Gas Deliveries
Wisconsin Electric is authorized to provide gas service in designated territories in the state of Wisconsin, as established by indeterminate permits, certificates of public convenience and necessity, or boundary agreements with other utilities.
Total gas therms delivered by Wisconsin Electric, including customer-owned transported gas, were approximately 944 million therms during 1999, a 2.3% increase compared to 1998. At December 31, 1999, Wisconsin Electric was transporting gas for approximately 370 customers who choose to purchase gas directly from other suppliers. Transported gas accounted for approximately 43% of total therms delivered during 1999, 46% during 1998 and 40% during 1997. There were approximately 398,500 natural gas customers at December 31, 1999, an increase of approximately 2.6% since December 31, 1998.
See "Results of Operations - Utility Segment Pretax Operating Results - Gas Utility Revenues, Gross Margins and Therm Deliveries" in Item 7 of this report for additional selected gas operating information by customer class.
Wisconsin Electric's maximum daily send-out during 1999 was 692,649 dekatherms on January 4, 1999. A dekatherm is equivalent to ten therms or one million British thermal units . Sales of gas fluctuate with the heating cycle of the year and are also impacted by varying weather conditions from year-to-year.
In July 1997, the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin approved Wisconsin Electric's application to extend natural gas service to more than 4,500 potential customers in northeastern Wisconsin. When completed in 2002, the project will involve installation of more than 350 miles of new gas main. As of the end of 1999, approximately 3,400 customers have been connected and the remainder are expected to be connected over the next three years.
SALES TO LARGE GAS CUSTOMERS: Wisconsin Electric provides gas utility service to a diversified base of industrial customers who are largely within its electric service territory. Major industries served by Wisconsin Electric's gas operations include the paper, food products and fabricated metal products industries. During 1999, Wisconsin Electric's electric operations took delivery of 5.9% of total therm deliveries compared to 8.6% during 1998. No single retail customer of gas operations accounted for more than 1.9% of total gas therms sold and transported during 1999.
Gas Supply
Wisconsin Electric's gas operations has entered into more than 60 gas service contracts for supply, pipeline capacity, underground storage and balancing services. Contracts vary in term from less than one year to ten years. Gas supply contracts contain pricing options that allow pricing at market rates or the ability to fix future prices for varying terms which Wisconsin Electric can exercise to mitigate substantial market price fluctuations. The gas from these contracts is used to meet customer requirements on a daily basis and to fill storage during the warm months to be withdrawn from storage during the heating season in order to meet system gas demands.
The use of storage increases the load factor of supply contracts and allows Wisconsin Electric to take advantage of seasonal price differentials. Wisconsin Electric's gas operations has six firm gas storage agreements with pipelines that allow daily withdrawals of 300,564 dekatherms and an annual capacity of 15.9 million dekatherms. The initial terms of these contracts vary with the last one expiring in May 2006. Gas stored at these facilities is purchased by Wisconsin Electric from a number of suppliers.
Wisconsin Electric has 26 transportation contracts, the last of which expires in 2006, that it uses to meet daily customer requirements and to inject and withdraw from gas storage. In each case, subject to certain provisions, Wisconsin Electric's gas operations can extend the terms of these contracts at the time the agreements would otherwise expire.
Wisconsin Electric also has two contracts for salt dome storage that provide seasonal gas supply backup in the event of well freeze-off or other loss of supply.
Competition
Competition in the natural gas industry continues to increase, driven by a combination of market forces and regulatory initiatives. Natural gas companies are now operating in a competitive environment at the wholesale level, and regulators in Wisconsin continue to evaluate competition at the retail level.
Acquisition of Wisconsin Gas Company
Upon consummation of the merger with WICOR, Inc., the Company will acquire Wisconsin Gas Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of WICOR and the largest natural gas distribution utility in the state of Wisconsin serving approximately 538,000 customers as of December 31, 1999. For additional information concerning the pending acquisition of WICOR, see "Factors Affecting Results of Operations - Mergers" in Item 7 of this report.
STEAM OPERATIONS
Wisconsin Electric operates a district steam system in downtown Milwaukee and the near south side of Milwaukee. Steam is supplied to this system from Wisconsin Electric's Valley Power Plant, a coal-fired cogeneration facility. Wisconsin Electric also operates the steam production and distribution facilities of the Milwaukee County Power Plant located on the Milwaukee County Grounds in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin. Annual sales of steam fluctuate from year to year based upon system growth and variations in weather conditions. As of December 31, 1999, steam was used by 450 customers for processing, space heating, domestic hot water and humidification.
UTILITY RATE MATTERS
See "Factors Affecting Results of Operations - Rates and Regulatory Matters" in Item 7 of this report for a discussion of rate matters, including recent rate changes, and for a discussion of the tariffs and procedures with respect to recovery of changes in the costs of fuel, purchased power and gas purchased for resale.
UTILITY ENERGY EFFICIENCY
The Public Service Commission of Wisconsin continues to require utilities such as Wisconsin Electric to meet electric and natural gas energy efficiency goals for residential, small commercial and low income customers. Goals for large commercial and industrial customers were eliminated in 1997. Wisconsin Electric uses a bidding process to hire contractors to accomplish its goals. Wisconsin Electric has contracts for 100% of its residential and small commercial energy efficiency goals for 2000. Wisconsin Electric works cooperatively with state weatherization operators and community organizations in achieving its low income energy efficiency goals.
In a related matter, as part of 1999 Wisconsin Act 9, responsibility for energy efficiency goals will be transferred from utilities to the Wisconsin Department of Administration over the next three years. For further information, see "Factors Affecting Results of Operations - Industry Restructuring and Competition" in Item 7 of this report.
NON-UTILITY SEGMENT
See "Note K - Segment Reporting" in Wisconsin Energy's Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for information concerning non-utility operating revenues, pretax operating income, net identifiable assets and construction expenditures during each of the three years ended December 31, 1999.
NON-UTILITY ENERGY OPERATIONS
WISVEST CORPORATION: Wisvest Corporation develops, owns and operates electric generating facilities and invests in other energy-related entities. Current Wisvest operations and investments include:
* A wholly-owned subsidiary, Wisvest-Connecticut, LLC, which owns and operates two fossil-fueled power plants in the state of Connecticut. The plants include the Bridgeport Harbor Station, which has an active generating capacity of 590 megawatts, and the New Haven Harbor Station, which has an active generating capacity of 466 megawatts. For additional information concerning acquisition of these plants during 1999, see "Note B - Mergers & Acquisitions" in Wisconsin Energy's Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.
* A wholly-owned subsidiary, Griffin Energy Marketing, L.L.C., which markets energy related services and trades electricity.
* The chilled water production and distribution facilities that are part of the Milwaukee County Power Plant on the Milwaukee County Grounds in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin.
* An investment in Calumet Energy Team, LLC, which signed two agreements in November 1999 with the City of Chicago, Illinois. The first provides for the lease, purchase and redevelopment of land for the purpose of constructing a natural gas-fired peaking power plant with a projected generating capacity of approximately 308 megawatts. The second is a ten year capacity reservation agreement for 50 megawatts of plant capacity. The plant is anticipated to be in commercial operation in June of 2001. For additional information, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Capital Requirements" in Item 7 of this report.
* Loans to SkyGen Energy Holdings LLC, which develops, owns and operates independent power plants and cogeneration facilities. Under certain circumstances, certain of the loans may be converted in stages to minority equity ownership in SkyGen. For additional information, see "Note K - Segment Reporting" in Wisconsin Energy's Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.
* Investments in other energy-related entities such as a strategic energy management services company with a focus on natural gas management and a cogeneration facility in the state of Maine, the Androscoggin Cogeneration Center. For additional information related to the Androscoggin Cogeneration Center, see "Note L - Commitments and Contingencies" in Wisconsin Energy's Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.
OTHER NON-UTILITY OPERATIONS
MINERGY CORP.: Minergy Corp. is engaged in the business of developing and marketing proprietary technologies designed to convert high volume industrial and municipal wastes into value- added products. Current Minergy operations and investments include:
* A facility in Neenah, Wisconsin, placed into commercial operation during 1998, that recycles paper sludge from area paper mills into two usable and salable products: glass aggregate and steam. The plant also provides substantial environmental and economic benefits to the area by providing an alternative to landfilling paper sludge.
* A wholly-owned subsidiary, Minergy Detroit, LLC, which was awarded a 15-year contract in September 1999 by the City of Detroit, Michigan to recycle the city's wastewater solids into a glass aggregate product used in the manufacture of floor tiles, roofing shingle granules, sand blast grit and other construction materials. Minergy Detroit, LLC expects to begin construction of a proposed recycling facility in the fourth quarter of 2000 with startup anticipated in 2002. For additional information about the contract and related contingencies, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Capital Requirements" in Item 7 of this report.
WISPARK CORPORATION: Wispark Corporation develops and invests in real estate. While Wispark's core geographic area is southeastern Wisconsin, it is currently developing properties in metropolitan Minneapolis/St. Paul, Minnesota and Chicago, Illinois. Wispark's initial development, LakeView Corporate Park, a 1,600-acre business park located near Kenosha, Wisconsin, has developed 732 acres with over 6,816,000 square feet of buildings for 62 companies during its first eleven years of existence. Wispark is also developing or has developed business parks such as those in the following locations:
* Mitchell International Business Park - Cudahy, Wisconsin; * Cottonwood Commerce Center - Hartland, Wisconsin; * Business Park of Kenosha - Kenosha, Wisconsin; * Westridge Business Park - New Berlin, Wisconsin; * RidgeView Corporate Park - Pewaukee, Wisconsin; * GrandView Business Park - Racine, Wisconsin; * NorthWest Corporate Park - Elgin, Illinois; * Grand Oak Business Park - Eagan, Minnesota; and * Rice Creek Corporate Park - Shoreview, Minnesota.
In addition to developing business parks, Wispark has established itself as one of southeastern Wisconsin's largest developers of industrial buildings. In the last seven years, Wispark has developed 3,315,000 square feet of buildings on a build-to-suit basis, and just over 3,400,000 square feet of other building space. Wispark has also developed mixed-use projects such as Gaslight Pointe in Racine, Wisconsin and constructed a 120-room Radisson Hotel and Conference Center in LakeView Corporate Park. Wispark has also entered into a joint venture agreement to develop Pabst Farms, a mixed use project in Oconomowoc / Summit, Wisconsin.
WISCONSIN ENERGY CAPITAL CORPORATION: Wisconsin Energy Capital Corporation, formerly Wisconsin Michigan Investment Corporation, engages in investing and financing activities. Activities include advances to affiliated companies and investments in financial instruments and in partnerships developing low-and moderate-income housing projects. Other investments may be made from time to time. Wisconsin Energy Capital Corporation's subsidiary, WMF Corp., engages in financing activities. Any funds obtained by WMF Corp. through financing arrangements are advanced to Wisconsin Energy Capital Corporation.
WEC NUCLEAR CORPORATION: WEC Nuclear Corporation has an ownership interest in Nuclear Management Company, LLC. Formed during the first quarter of 1999, it is intended that Nuclear Management Company, LLC will provide services to Wisconsin Electric in connection with Point Beach Nuclear Plant as well as to other unaffiliated companies with nuclear generating facilities. For additional information, see "Factors Affecting Results of Operations - Nuclear Matters" in Item 7 of this report.
WEC INTERNATIONAL INC.: WEC International Inc. serves as Wisconsin Energy's international investment vehicle. WEC International, Inc. currently has investments in two joint ventures in the Netherlands involving waste treatment and by- product utilization activities.
WITECH CORPORATION: Witech Corporation is a venture capital company operating in the state of Wisconsin. At December 31, 1999, Witech had investments in eleven companies and three funds totaling more than $31 million. Among others, the companies include an operator of a nationwide data communications network for the agriculture industry, a manufacturer of electronic components and a manufacturer of motor drives.
NORTHERN TREE SERVICE, INC.: Northern Tree Service, Inc., a former subsidiary of ESELCO, Inc., is engaged in tree trimming in the state of Michigan's eastern Upper Peninsula.
BADGER SERVICE COMPANY: Badger Service Company holds coal rights in Indiana. Estimates indicate that 40 million tons of coal could be recovered from this property with conventional mining techniques. However, there are no current plans to develop the property. Badger Service Company may sell or develop these rights in the future as conditions warrant.
NON-UTILITY RESTRICTIONS
For information concerning restrictions, relaxed somewhat by 1999 Wisconsin Act 9, which limit diversification of Wisconsin Energy into certain non-utility activities, see "Factors Affecting Results of Operations - Rates and Regulatory Matters" in Item 7 of this report. For information concerning restrictions on the ability of Wisconsin Electric to transfer funds to Wisconsin Energy, which could limit internal funds available for non-utility operations, see "Note A - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in Wisconsin Energy's Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.
REGULATION
WISCONSIN ENERGY: Wisconsin Energy is an exempt holding company by order of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 3(a)(1) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 and, accordingly, is exempt from the law's provisions other than with respect to certain acquisitions of securities of a public utility.
UTILITY SEGMENT: Wisconsin Electric is subject to the regulation of the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin as to retail electric, gas and steam rates in the state of Wisconsin, standards of service, issuance of securities, construction of new facilities, transactions with affiliates, levels of short-term debt obligations, billing practices and various other matters. Wisconsin Electric and Edison Sault are both subject to the regulation of the Michigan Public Service Commission as to the various matters associated with retail electric service in the state of Michigan as noted above except as to issuance of securities, construction of certain new facilities, levels of short-term debt obligations and advance approval of transactions with affiliates. Wisconsin Electric's hydroelectric facilities are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Wisconsin Electric and Edison Sault are subject to regulation of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission with respect to wholesale power service, electric transmission, and accounting. Edison Sault is subject to regulation of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission with respect to the issuance of certain securities. Operation and construction relating to Wisconsin Electric's Point Beach Nuclear Plant facilities are subject to regulation by the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Total flow of water to Edison Sault's hydroelectric generating plant is under the control of the International Joint Commission, created by the Boundary Water Treaty of 1909 between the United States and Great Britain, now represented by Canada. Wisconsin Electric's and Edison Sault's operations are also subject to regulations, where applicable, of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, the Michigan Department of Natural Resources and the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.
In 1999, the Wisconsin State Legislature passed and the Governor of Wisconsin signed into law 1999 Wisconsin Act 9, which, among other things included public benefits legislation as well as amendments relaxing the non-utility asset cap provisions of Wisconsin's public utility holding company law. For additional information, see "Factors Affecting Results of Operations - Industry Restructuring and Competition" in Item 7 of this report.
In 1998, the Wisconsin State Legislature passed and the Governor of Wisconsin signed into law 1997 Wisconsin Act 204, intended to address concerns with electric reliability in the state of Wisconsin. The 1997 Wisconsin Act 204 included new requirements concerning market power which utilities and their affiliates must meet in order to construct generating facilities. The requirements apply to utility facilities in excess of 100 megawatts. The Public Service Commission of Wisconsin is currently engaged in a rule making proceeding involving the applicability of Act 204 to utility affiliates seeking to construct facilities in the state of Wisconsin.
In 1994, the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin ordered the state's utilities to competitively bid all new generation needs in excess of 12 megawatts to be built in the state of Wisconsin. The two-stage process established by the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin consists of an all-parties (including utilities) bidding procedure for fossil-fueled and renewable generation projects, and the conventional Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity procedure for the winner or winners. In the first quarter of 1997, the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin extended this to include repowering or upgrades of existing generation in excess of 12 megawatts. The Public Service Commission of Wisconsin is currently reconsidering these requirements and has asked utilities for their comments.
NON-UTILITY SEGMENT: Wisvest-Connecticut, LLC is an exempt wholesale generator pursuant to Section 32 of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935. The Company is subject to regulation of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission with respect to wholesale power service. Wisvest-Connecticut, LLC's operations are also subject to regulations, where applicable, of the United States Environmental Protection Agency and the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES
Expenditures for environmental compliance and remediation issues noted below are included in anticipated construction expenditures described in "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Capital Requirements" in Item 7 of this report. For discussion of additional environmental issues, see "Environmental Matters" in Item 3