Item 2. Description of Properties.
We do not lease or own any real property for our corporate offices. We currently maintain our corporate office on a month-to-month basis at 401 Ryland St, Suite 180, Reno, NV 89502. Management believes that our office space is suitable for our current needs.
Our property holdings as of December 31, 2020 consist of the Vernal Property, Windy Peak Property and Rainbow Mountain Property.
Vernal Project
Map showing the location of our Vernal Project located in Central Western Nevada.
Acquisition of Interests - Vernal Project
Pursuant to a Property Option Agreement (the “BV Agreement”), dated as of July 25, 2003, with MinQuest, Inc., a Nevada Company (“MinQuest”), we acquired the option to earn a 100% interest in the Bruner and Vernal mineral exploration properties located in Nevada. Together, these two properties originally consisted of 28 unpatented mining claims on a total of 560 acres in the northwest trending Walker Lane located in western central Nevada.
To date, the Company has paid the option payments and made the expenditures necessary to satisfy the requirements of the BV Agreement and 100% interest in these two properties was therefore transferred to Patriot, subject to MinQuest retaining a 3% royalty. All mining interests in the properties are subject to MinQuest retaining a 3% royalty of the aggregate proceeds from any smelter or other purchaser of any ores, concentrates, metals or other material of commercial value produced from the property, minus the cost of transportation of the ores, concentrates or metals, including related insurance, and smelting and refining charges. Pursuant to the BV Agreement, we have a one-time option to purchase a portion of MinQuest’s royalty interest at a rate of $1,000,000 for each 1%. We may exercise our option 90 days following completion of a bankable feasibility study of the Bruner and Vernal properties, which, as it relates to a mineral resource or reserve, is an evaluation of the economics for the extraction (mining), processing and marketing of a defined ore reserve that would justify financing from a banking or financing institution for putting the mine into production.
On April 16, 2010, the Company entered into an Assignment Agreement with its wholly owned subsidiary, Provex Resources, Inc., (now Goldbase, Inc.) a Nevada Company, to assign the exclusive option to an undivided right, title and interest in the Bruner, Bruner Expansion and Vernal properties to Provex. Pursuant to the Agreement, Provex assumed the rights, and agreed to perform all of the duties and obligations, of the Company arising under the original property option agreements.
In April 2017, Canamex Resources purchased our interest in the Bruner properties for US$1.0 million cash, and we retained a two percent net smelter return royalty on the Bruner properties including any claims acquired within a two-mile area of interest around the existing claims. Additionally, Canamex has the option to buy-down half of the NSR royalty retained by Patriot for US$5 million any time during a five-year period following closing of the purchase and sale agreement.
Description and Location of the Vernal Property
The Vernal Property is located approximately 140 miles east-southeast of Reno, Nevada on the west side of the Shoshone Mountains. Access from Fallon, the closest town of any size, is by 50 miles of paved highway and 30 miles of gravel roads. The Company holds the property via 12 unpatented mining claims (approximately 248 acres). The Company has a 100% interest in the Vernal property, subject to an existing royalty.
Exploration History of the Vernal Property
Historical work includes numerous short adits constructed on the Vernal Property between 1907 and 1936. There appears to have been little or no mineral production.
The Vernal Property is underlain by a thick sequence of Tertiary age rhyolitic volcanic rocks including tuffs, flows and intrusives. A volcanic center is thought to underlie the district, with an intruding rhyolite plug dome (a domal feature formed by the extrusion of viscous quartz-rich volcanic rocks) thought to be closely related to mineralization encountered by the geologists of Amselco, the U.S. subsidiary of a British company, who explored the Vernal Property back in the 1980’s, and who in 1983 mapped, sampled and drilled the Vernal Property. Amselco has not been involved with the Vernal Property over the last 20 years and is not associated with our option on the Vernal Property or the exploration work being done. A 225-foot-wide zone of poorly outcropping quartz stockworks (a multi-directional quartz veinlet system) and larger veining trends exist northeast from the northern margin of the plug. The veining consists of chalcedony containing 1-5% pyrite. Clay alteration of the host volcanics is strong. Northwest trending veins are also present but very poorly exposed. Both directions carry gold values. Scattered vein float is found over the plug. The most significant gold values in rock chips come from veining in tuffaceous rocks north of the nearly east-west contact of the plug. This area has poor exposure, but sampling of old dumps and surface workings show an open-ended gold anomaly that measures 630 feet by 450 feet.
The Vernal Property claims presently do not have any known mineral reserves. The property that is the subject of our mineral claims is undeveloped and does not contain any commercial scale open-pits. Numerous shallow underground excavations occur within the central portion of the property. No reported historic production is noted for the property. There is no mining plant or equipment located on the property that is the subject of the mineral claim. Currently, there is no power supply to the mineral claims. Although drill holes are present within the property boundary, there is no known drilled reserve on our claims.
In July 2003 and again in June 2017, members of our Board of Directors and geology team made an onsite inspection of the Vernal property. Mapping (the process of laying out a grid on the land for area identification where samples are taken) and sampling (the process of taking small quantities of soil and rock for analysis) have been completed. In March 2005, the Company initiated the process to secure the proper permits for trenching and geochemical sampling from the U.S. Forest Service.
Our exploration of the Vernal Property to date has consisted of geologic mapping, trenching and rock chip geochemical sampling. The Board of Directors approved a budget of approximately $55,000 (including the refundable bond of $900) for the Vernal property. An exploration program was conducted in November 2008. The program consisted of 200 feet of trenching, sampling and mapping, and opening, mapping and sampling of an underground workings consisting of approximately 275 feet of workings. The Company is continuing to evaluate the Vernal Property.
In September 2017, we released a National Instrument 43-101 Technical Report on the Vernal.
Planned Exploration
The Company’s current objectives are to assess the geological merits and if warranted and feasible establish an exploration program to identify the potential for economically viable mineralization. The cost of an exploration plan has not yet been determined therefore estimated exploration expenditures are not available at this time. The Company recognizes that the Vernal Property is an early-stage exploration opportunity and there are currently no proven or probable reserves.
Windy Peak Property
Acquisition of Interest
In May 2015, after a review of historical records and information available regarding a potential mineral property interest in Churchill County, Nevada, the Company acquired the Windy Peak Property, (referred to herein as the “Windy Peak Property,” "Windy Peak” or the “Property”). This early-stage exploration project was secured through the completion of an Assignment and Assumption Agreement. Windy Peak has been visited by directors and technical staff of the Company several times in 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020.
The Windy Peak Property Location in Nevada
Description and Location of the Windy Peak Property
The Windy Peak Property consists of 114 unpatented mineral claims covering approximately 2,337 contiguous acres, 3 miles NNE of the Bell Mountain and 7 miles east of the Fairview mining district in southwest Nevada. Windy Peak is approximately 45 miles southeast of Fallon and 5 ½ miles south of Middlegate. The Property is a contiguous claim block. Access to the project area is by paved highway, followed by a short stretch of gravel road.
Access to the Windy Peak Property is from U.S. Highway 50, thence south via Highway 361 to an unmarked dirt road that heads west along the south side of an unnamed wash referred to as Windy Wash. The dirt road exits Highway 95 near the border of Sections 27 & 34. The Bell Mountain quadrangle (dated 1972) shows an older dirt road that follows the floor of the wash. About 2 miles along the dirt road, trenching and cutting of trails to access various portions of the Property have extensively disturbed the hill. The dirt road is in good condition, however the steeper trails near Windy Peak require a 4-wheel-drive for access. There is no plant, equipment, water source nor power currently on site. Power could be provided by portable diesel-powered generators. Non potable water may be source able on site for drilling, mining and milling purposes.
The Property claims are held as unpatented federal land claims administered under the Department of Interior, BLM. In order to acquire an unpatented mineral claim, the land must be open to mineral entry. Federal law specifies that a claim must be located or “staked” and site boundaries be distinctly and clearly marked to be readily identifiable on the ground in addition to filing the appropriate state and or federal documentation such as Location Notice, Claim Map, Notice of Non-liability for Labor and Materials Furnished, Notice of Intent to Hold Mining Claims, Maintenance Fee Payment and fees to secure the claim. The State may also establish additional requirements regarding the manner in which mining claims and sites are located and recorded. An unpatented mining claim on U.S. government lands establishes a claim to the locatable minerals (also referred to as stakeable minerals) on the land and the right of possession solely for mining purposes. No title to the land passes to the claimant. If a proven economic mineral deposit is developed, provisions of federal mining laws permit owners of unpatented mining claims to patent (to obtain title to) the claim. The Property surface estate and mineral rights are federally owned and subject to BLM regulations. None of the Property claims have been legally surveyed. Although our legal access to unpatented Federal claims cannot be denied, staking or operating a mining claim does not provide the claim holder exclusive rights to the surface resources (unless a right was determined under Public Law 84-167), establish residency or block access to other users. Regulations managing the use and occupancy of the public lands for development of locatable mineral deposits by limiting such use or occupancy to that which is reasonably incident is found in 43 CFR 3715. These Regulations apply to public lands administered by the BLM.
Annual maintenance fees paid to the BLM and recording fees must be paid to the respective county on or before September 1 of each year to keep the claims in good standing, provided the filings are kept current these claims can be kept in perpetuity.
Past Exploration in the Windy Peak Area
Fairview District
The Windy Peak area has been considered to be part of, or at least an extension of, the Fairview District, which, is located on Fairview Peak about 6 miles WNW of Hill 6483. Both areas are within the Fairview Peak caldera, but their geochemical differences indicate they are not related.
Windy Peak
Published information regarding the Windy Peak area refers to a small leach pad at the Cye Cox prospect at Hill 6483. This exploration was located adjacent to but not on our northern claim block. According to historical reports, an initial 6 claims (Red Star) were staked by Cye Cox of Fallon from 1945 to 1969. Subsequent lessees staked an additional 79 Red Star claims from 1978 to 1979. Cye Cox together with Pete Erb and "Pine Nut" Forbush discovered high-grade gold on the south side of Hill 6483 in the Windy fault in 1970. The presence of old timbers near a mostly-covered hole at the western trench (about mile west of the Windy adit) indicates that they also did some work there. After further examination a plant with a 6-8" grizzly and trommel (21' x 30") was setup and operated.
Exploration on and around the property has included geologic mapping, rock chip sampling, sagebrush biogeochemistry, VLF-EM, VLF-resistivity and magnetic geophysical surveys, and reverse circulation drilling. Various companies, including Terraco Gold Corp, Solitario Resources, Red Star Gold, Pegasus Gold Corp, Rio Tinto, and Kennecott, have conducted drilling on and around the property, with more than 70 holes drilled. Limited small-scale mining activities have been conducted by various private parties since the 1940's, including a small glory hole mined during the 1970's centered on Hill 6483. Previous work on the property included many vertical reverse-circulation drill holes, which are not suited to testing the high-angle structures known to host the gold- bearing veins. Some of the holes previously drilled are inferred to be too shallow to properly test targets. The Company believes the high-grade structurally hosted gold potential on the property has not been tested by previous drilling programs.
Geology of the Windy Peak Property Area
Review of late Tertiary epithermal gold-silver deposits in the northern Great Basin, revealed that most deposits are spatially and temporally related to two magmatic assemblages: bimodal basalt-rhyolite and western andesite. The Fairview district, including the Bell Mine, is related to a third, minor magmatic assemblage, the late Eocene to early Miocene caldera complexes of the interior andesite-rhyolite assemblage. This assemblage hosts the giant late-Oligocene Round Mountain deposit plus smaller deposits in the Atlanta, Fairview, Tuscarora, and Wonder mining districts. The youngest rocks in the interior andesite-rhyolite assemblage are in the Fairview and Tonopah mining districts. Recent studies have shown that the magmatism associated with the interior andesite rhyolite assemblage had a close spatial and temporal association with crustal extension, and that these magmas may have been formed by partial mixing of mantle-derived basal with crustal melt.
Current Exploration
The Company has been conducting an ongoing exploration program to assess the potential for economically viable mineralization. The exploration program has been permitted by the BLM. The Company initiated drilling in the summer of 2018, and this program extended into October 2018. Further drilling was completed in December 2019, and again in January 2021. Exploration on the project is ongoing. The Company recognizes that Windy Peak is an early-stage exploration opportunity and there are currently no proven or probable reserves.
Rainbow Mountain Property
Acquisition of Interest
In autumn of 2018, after conducting initial reconnaissance of the Rainbow Mountain, the Company acquired the Rainbow Mountain Property, (referred to herein as the “Rainbow Mountain Property,” "Rainbow Mountain” or the “Property”). This early-stage exploration project was secured through staking and filing the associated paperwork and fees with the BLM and County. Rainbow Mountain has been visited by directors and technical staff of the Company several times in 2018, 2019, and 2020.
The Rainbow Mountain Property Location in Nevada
Description and Location of the Rainbow Mountain Property
The Rainbow Mountain gold project consists of 81 unpatented lode claims totaling approximately 1,620 contiguous acres, located approximately 23 km southeast of Fallon, in the state of Nevada. Access to the project area is by paved highway, followed by a short stretch of gravel road.
The Property claims are held as unpatented federal land claims administered under the Department of Interior, BLM. In order to acquire an unpatented mineral claim, the land must be open to mineral entry. Federal law specifies that a claim must be located or “staked” and site boundaries be distinctly and clearly marked to be readily identifiable on the ground in addition to filing the appropriate state and or federal documentation such as Location Notice, Claim Map, Notice of Non-liability for Labor and Materials Furnished, Notice of Intent to Hold Mining Claims, Maintenance Fee Payment and fees to secure the claim. The State may also establish additional requirements regarding the manner in which mining claims and sites are located and recorded. An unpatented mining claim on U.S. government lands establishes a claim to the locatable minerals (also referred to as stakeable minerals) on the land and the right of possession solely for mining purposes. No title to the land passes to the claimant. If a proven economic mineral deposit is developed, provisions of federal mining laws permit owners of unpatented mining claims to patent (to obtain title to) the claim. The Property surface estate and mineral rights are federally owned and subject to BLM regulations. None of the Property claims have been legally surveyed. Although our legal access to unpatented Federal claims cannot be denied, staking or operating a mining claim does not provide the claim holder exclusive rights to the surface resources (unless a right was determined under Public Law 84-167), establish residency or block access to other users. Regulations managing the use and occupancy of the public lands for development of locatable mineral deposits by limiting such use or occupancy to that which is reasonably incident is found in 43 CFR 3715. These Regulations apply to public lands administered by the BLM.
Annual maintenance fees paid to the BLM and recording fees must be paid to the respective county on or before September 1 of each year to keep the claims in good standing, provided the filings are kept current these claims can be kept in perpetuity.
Geology of the Rainbow Mountain Property Area
The claim area roughly encompasses nearly the full extent of Rainbow Mountain, and specifically a prominent zone of northeast-striking faults which transect the central part of Rainbow Mountain. This complex fault zone involves three discrete Tertiary volcanic units comprised of basalt, dacite, and olivine basalt. Individual fault traces are well exposed locally and are often coincident with the contacts between the individual lithologic units. Many of the fault traces exhibit prominent fault breccia and hydrothermal breccia, and surface samples of this material returned anomalous gold and silver values up to 0.807 ppm and 1.6 ppm, respectively.
Based on observations recorded during field reconnaissance, individual hydrothermal veins along the faulted contacts range in thickness up to 1.5 m, with associated strike lengths of up to 1.7 km. The Company postulates that this locally intense faulting, in conjunction with the associated anomalous assay values, is suggestive of a potential epithermal vein system within the footwall of the greater Rainbow Fault zone.
Current Exploration
The Company has been conducting an ongoing exploration program to assess the potential for economically viable mineralization. The exploration program has been permitted by the BLM. The Company initiated drilling in December of 2020. Exploration on the project is ongoing. The Company recognizes that Rainbow Mountain is an early-stage exploration opportunity and there are currently no proven or probable reserves.
Item 3.