Item 2. Description of Properties.
We do not lease or own any real property. We currently maintain our corporate office on a month-to-month basis at an amount of CDN $1,742 per month at #501-1775 Bellevue Avenue, West Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, V7V 1A9. Management believes that our office space is suitable for our current needs.
In the following discussion relating to our interests in real property, there are references to “patented” mining claims and “unpatented” mining claims. A patented mining claim is one for which the U.S. government has passed its title to the claimant, giving that person title to the land as well as the minerals and other resources above and below the surface. The patented claim is then treated like any other private land and is subject to local property taxes. An unpatented mining claim on U.S. government lands establishes a claim to the locatable minerals (also referred to as stakeable minerals) on the land and the right of possession solely for mining purposes. No title to the land passes to the claimant. If a proven economic mineral deposit is developed, provisions of federal mining laws permit owners of unpatented mining claims to patent (to obtain title to) the claim. If one purchases an unpatented mining claim that is later declared invalid by the U.S. government, one could be evicted.
Bruner and Vernal Properties
Map of our Bruner and Vernal properties located in western Nevada.
Acquisition of Interest
Pursuant to a Property Option Agreement, dated as of July 25, 2003, with MinQuest, Inc., a Nevada corporation (“MinQuest”), we have the option to earn a 100% interest in the Bruner and Vernal mineral exploration properties located in Nevada. Together, these two properties consist of 28 mining claims on a total of 560 acres in the northwest trending Walker Lane located in western Nevada, as further described below.
Simultaneous with the execution and delivery of the Property Option Agreement, we paid MinQuest $12,500. In order to earn a 100% interest in these two properties, we must pay MinQuest, Inc. and incur expenditures relating to mining operations in accordance with the following schedule: (i) on or before July 25, 2004, $20,000 to MinQuest and $75,000 in expenditures; (ii) on or before July 25, 2005, $20,000 to MinQuest and an additional $100,000 in expenditures; (iii) on or before July 25, 2006, $20,000 to MinQuest and an additional $100,000 in expenditures; (iv) on or before July 25, 2007, $20,000 to MinQuest and an additional $100,000 in expenditures; and (v) on or before July 25, 2008, an additional $125,000 in expenditures. If we have not incurred the requisite expenditures to maintain our option in good standing, we have a 60-day period subsequent to July 25th to make such payment along with such amount which shall be deemed to have been an expenditure incurred by us during such period. Since our payment obligations are non-refundable, if we do not make any payments, we will lose any payments made and all our rights to the properties. If all said payments are made, then we will acquire all mining interests in the property, subject to MinQuest retaining a 3% royalty of the aggregate proceeds received by us from any smelter or other purchaser of any ores, concentrates, metals or other material of commercial value produced from the property, minus the cost of transportation of the ores, concentrates or metals, including related insurance, and smelting and refining charges, including penalties.
Pursuant to the Property Option Agreement, we have a one-time option to purchase up to 2% of MinQuest’s royalty interest at a rate of $1,000,000 for each 1%. We must exercise our option 90 days following completion of a bankable feasibility study of the Bruner and Vernal properties, which, as it relates to a mineral resource or reserve, is an evaluation of the economics for the extraction (mining), processing and marketing of a defined ore reserve that would justify financing from a banking or financing institution for putting the mine into production.
On July 25, 2003, we paid MinQuest $12,500 with respect to the properties, and we owed an additional $80,000 which was due in four equal annual installments commencing on July 25, 2004. With the approval of MinQuest, we paid the first installment on August 27, 2004 and we paid the second installment on September 20, 2005. On July 25, 2006 and 2007 respectively we made the third and fourth installments of $20,000. The payment made on July 25, 2007 was the final payment due under the property option agreement for the Bruner and Vernal properties. By July 25, 2008, we were to have spent $500,000 on exploration, and by that date we had spent an aggregate of approximately $424,000 on exploration of the two properties resulting in a shortfall of approximately $76,000. The Company intends to undertake an exploration program in 2009 to complete its obligations under the Bruner and Vernal agreement.
Bruner Property
Description and Location of the Bruner Property
The property is located approximately 130 miles east-southeast of Reno, Nevada at the northern end of the Paradise Range. Access from Fallon, the closest town of any size, is by 50 miles of paved highway and 16 miles of gravel roads. We hold the property via 16 unpatented mining claims (320 acres).
Exploration History of the Bruner Property
The original operators at the Bruner Property are unknown. Prospecting at the property began in the early 1900’s while mining was occurring on other properties located to the west. However, modern exploration of the property began in 1983 and included the following work:
o
In 1983, Kennecott Minerals Company drilled fifteen RC holes (holes left after the process of reverse circulation drilling) on the property.
o
In 1988-1990, Newmont Exploration Ltd. drilled approximately 10 RC holes; conducted detailed geologic mapping (producing a plan map of the rock types, structure and alteration), geochemical surveys (which is sampling of rocks or soil and determination of the absolute abundances of elements), air and ground magnetic surveys (recording variations in the earth’s magnetic field and plotting same), and ground radiometric surveys (a survey of radioactive materials on the land surface).
o
In 1990-1995, Miramar Mining Corp. drilled 5 RC holes and conducted BLEG (bulk leach extractable gold) sampling and air photo interpretation. BLEG sampling involves a large sample of soil or rock that is leached using cyanide to determine gold and silver content down to a detection limit of as little as 1.0 part per billion.
Geology of the Bruner Property Mineral Claims
The Bruner mining district is underlain by a sequence of intermediate to felsic Tertiary volcanic rocks (which are quartz-rich rocks derived from volcanoes and deposited between two and sixty-five million years ago), including ash flow tuffs, tuffaceous sediments, and flows. A volcanic center, the origin of major volcanic activity, is thought to underlay the district, with associated silicic domes (a convex landform created by extruding quartz-rich volcanic rocks) and plugs (landform similar to a dome, but smaller) intruding the volcanic section. The exposed stratigraphic section measures over 2,500 feet in thickness. The “Duluth Tuff”, a variably crystal rich ash flow tuff, is the host for gold and silver mineralization. Flow banded silicic volcanics, volcanoclastics (coarse, unsorted sedimentary rock formed from volcanic rocks) and andesite underlie the tuff and flow-banded rhyolite overlies the host unit. Two generations of intrusive rocks have been described within the district. Ore in the Bruner district is hosted by vuggy, fractured, quartz-adularia (potassium-rich alternation mineral) -veined and/or stockworked tuff. Mineralization is primarily fault controlled, although some disseminated values do occur.
Current State of Exploration
The Bruner claims presently do not have any mineral reserves. The property that is the subject of our mineral claims is undeveloped and does not contain any open-pit or underground mines. There is no mining plant or equipment located on the property that is the subject of the mineral claims. Currently, there is no power supply to the mineral claims. Our planned exploration program is exploratory in nature and no mineral reserves may ever be found.
Geological Exploration Program
In July 2003, members of our Board of Directors and geology team made an onsite inspection of Bruner Property. From this visit, an exploration plan was determined and a schedule to begin work on the properties was organized to commence in the month of September 2003. The Company completed an exploration program consisting of geologic mapping, surface geochemical sampling, and a Global Positioning System geophysical survey (electrical, magnetic and other means used to detect features, which may be associated with mineral deposits) was also conducted. Such a survey measures the magnetic variations within the underlying rocks.
Since then, a ground magnetics survey and detailed mapping and rock sampling of the western portion of the claim block on the Bruner Property has been completed. The rock sampling is a collection of a series of small chips over a measured distance, which is then submitted for a chemical analysis, usually to determine the metallic content over the sampled interval. The magnetics indicate the presence of northwesterly and northerly trending faults under the pediment cover that may host gold mineralization. Faults, which are breaks in the rock along which the movement has taken place, are often the sites for the deposition of metallic rich fluids. A pediment cover is a broad, gently sloping surface at the base of a steeper slope. Geologic mapping of rocks exposed in the western portion of our claims shows several small quartz bearing structures trending northwest and dipping steeply to the northeast. These small structures are thought to be related to a much larger vein, often filled with quartz, contained within a fault or break in the rock (a fault-hosted vein system) under gravel cover in the broad valley south of the mapping. Approximately 1 square mile of ground magnetics was completed at Bruner. The survey was done on 50 meter spaced lines, run north-south using a GPS controlled Geometrics magnetometer, which is the geophysical instrument used in collecting magnetic data with an attached GPS that allows the operator to more precisely determine the location of each station where the magnetic signature is taken.
The interpretation shows numerous northwest and north-south trending magnetic lows associated with faults. Magnetic lows are an occurrence that may be indicative of a destruction of magnetic minerals by later hydrothermal (hot water) fluids that have come up along these faults. These hydrothermal fluids may in turn have carried and deposited precious metals such as gold and/or silver. A much more continuous northwest trending feature that has not been drill tested is located to the southeast, under gravel cover (where there is no exposure of rock at the surface). Data are sufficiently encouraging that an expanded CSMT survey is recommended to trace these structures in the third dimension.
Our exploration program to date at Bruner has included:
o
geologic mapping (producing a plan map of the rock types, structure and alteration);
o
rock chip geochemical sampling (sample of soil, rock, silt, water or vegetation analyzed to detect the presence of valuable metals or other metals which may accompany them (e.g., Arsenic may indicate the presence of gold);
o
a ground magnetic survey; and
o
a Controlled Source Magneto-telluric survey (recording variations in a generated electrical field using sophisticated survey methods).
In October 2004, we received the approval of a Notice of Intent for Exploration Drilling, and an environmental bond filed with the Nevada office of the Bureau of Land Management. A total of 18 drill sites were located to target both extensions of the gold intercepts in previous drilling and in geophysical anomalies found by a CSMT survey. A CSMT survey is an electromagnetic method used to map the variation of the Earth’s resistance to conduct electricity by measuring naturally occurring electric and magnetic fields at the Earth’s surface. With the proper approvals in place, we began drilling on the Bruner property on December 20, 2004. This drilling program was completed in March 2005 at a total cost of approximately $153,800, with a total of 3,200 feet of reverse circulation (RC) drilling in 7 holes. The depths of the holes ranged from 300 to 750 feet. We have received assays for all holes and the results were encouraging enough that additional drilling was conducted.
Because of the favorable drilling results from the drilling program we began on December 20, 2004, we decided to conduct additional drill testing on the Bruner property, including both reverse circulation and core drilling. In April 2005, we filed an amended drilling plan with the Bureau of Land Management that allowed three fences of drill holes with the fences spaced 400 feet apart along the apparent trend of the mineralization. This program was completed in the fall of 2005 with 11 holes totaling 4,205 feet being drilled.
The Board of Directors approved a 2007 exploration budget of approximately $120,000 for the Bruner Property. In November, 2007, the Company drilled three holes at Bruner to test deeper targets within the gold-bearing tuffaceous host rocks. The holes were drilled using an RC drill rig and totaled 3,240 feet. The holes were spaced roughly 400 feet apart on a line running east-northeast. All holes were angled steeply to the north to cut projected, south-dipping shear zones. Drill hole B-18 and B-19 were drilled1,000 feet deep and B-20 was drilled 1,240 feet deep. All three holes contained intermittent gold at various depths.
The results show a distinct increase in gold grade from the southwest (B-18) to the northeast (B-20). Only hole B-20 contained economic grade gold over any significant width. Further drilling north and east of B-20 may be warranted to vector in on the strongest part of the gold system. The drill program confirmed that gold mineralization continues at depth and is hosted by tuffaceous rocks. The Company is currently evaluating these results and will determine the course of action for the Bruner property in the coming months.
Vernal Project
Description and Location of the Vernal Property
The property is located approximately 140 miles east-southeast of Reno, Nevada on the west side of the Shoshone Mountains. Access from Fallon, the closest town of any size, is by 50 miles of paved highway and 30 miles of gravel roads. We hold the property via 12 unpatented mining claims (240 acres).
Exploration History of the Vernal Property
Historical work includes several short adits constructed on the property between 1907 and 1916. There appears to have been little or no mineral production.
Geology of the Vernal Mineral Claims
The Vernal Property is underlain by a thick sequence of Tertiary age rhyolitic volcanic rocks including tuffs, flows and intrusives. A volcanic center is thought to underlie the district, with an intruding rhyolite plug dome (a domal feature formed by the extrusion of viscous quartz-rich volcanic rocks) thought to be closely related to mineralization encountered by the geologists of Amselco, the U.S. subsidiary of a British company, who explored the Vernal Property back in the 1980’s, and who in 1983 mapped, sampled and drilled the Vernal Property. Amelsco has not been involved with the Vernal Property over the last 20 years and isnot associated with our option on the property or the exploration work we are doing there. A 225 foot wide zone of poorly outcropping quartz stockworks (a multi-directional quartz veinlet) and larger veining trends exists northeast from the northern margin of the plug. The veining consists of chalcedony containing 1-5% pyrite. Clay alteration of the host volcanics is strong. Northwest trending veins are also present, but very poorly exposed. Both directions carry gold values. Scattered vein float is found over the plug. The most significant gold values in rock chips come from veining in tuffaceous rocks north of the nearly east-west contact of the plug. This area has poor exposure, but sampling of old dumps and pits show an open-ended gold anomaly that measures 630 feet by 450 feet.
Current State of Exploration
The Vernal claims presently do not have any mineral reserves. The property that is the subject of our mineral claims is undeveloped and does not contain any open-pit or underground mines. There is no mining plant or equipment located on the property that is the subject of the mineral claim. Currently, there is no power supply to the mineral claim. Our planned exploration program is exploratory in nature and no mineral reserves may ever be found. There is no drilled resource on our claims.
Geological Exploration Program
In July 2003, members of our Board of Directors and geology team made an onsite inspection of Vernal. At the Vernal Property, mapping (the process of laying out a grid on the land for area identification where samples are taken) and sampling (the process of taking small quantities of soil and rock for analysis) have been completed. In March 2005, we initiated the process to secure the proper permits for trenching and geochemical sampling from the U.S. Forest Service. As a result of the Company not having immediate plans to conduct drilling on the Vernal Property in 2005, the Company stopped the permitting process before receiving permits for the Vernal Property.
Our exploration of the Vernal Property to date has consisted of geologic mapping and rock chip geochemical sampling. The Board of Directors has approved a budget of approximately $55,000 (including the refundable bond of $15,000) for the Vernal Property. The program is to include trenching and mapping. The Company is currently re-evaluating its plans for the Vernal as the Company may choose to make additional expenditures on the Bruner rather than the Vernal.
Moss Property
Moss Property
The Moss Property consists of 63 unpatented claims and 15 patented claims located in the Oatman District of Mohave County, Arizona. The Company acquired these claims in a series of transactions during fiscal 2004 and 2005.
Acquisition of Interest
Gintoff Claim
On November 14, 2003 the Company entered into a letter of intent to acquire a single patented claim from Gregory Gintoff. The total purchase price of $50,000 was made in two installments of $10,000 in December 2003 and $40,000 in February 2004.
MinQuest Claims
We hold the MinQuest claims via 62 unpatented mining claims that were acquired from MinQuest. On March 4, 2004, we signed the agreement that earned us a 100 percent interest in these claims by paying MinQuest a one-time lease fee of $50,000. The fee of $50,000 was paid on July 7, 2004. A three percent NSR production royalty is retained by MinQuest.
Williams Property
The property is comprised of six patented claims, which as a group, we call the Williams Property. These claims were held collectively by as many as 23 owners within an extended family who were represented by Barbara Williams, a realtor, and a member of this extended family, who put together the letter of intent and arranged for the signing of the agreement by the numerous owners. None of these owners, including Barbara Williams, has or has had any relationship or affiliation with us prior to the agreement for the Williams Property.
In October 2003, our director Robert Sibthorpe (who is a geologist by training) had evaluated the proposal for the purchase of the Williams Property. His recommendation was to visit the site, and if the visual inspection supported the information presented in the proposal, then an offer to purchase should be drawn up. In November 2003 we executed a letter of intent to purchase a 100% interest in Williams Property owned by the extended family. This property is unrelated to and separate from the MinQuest Claims. The sellers delivered to us all information in their possession regarding the Williams Property. During the six-month period after the signing of the letter of intent we had the right to conduct our due diligence on the Williams Property and if we decided not to proceed we had to give the sellers and escrow agent notice no less than 10 days prior to the six-month anniversary of our intention not to close. During this period we could not perform mining or remove any ore from the property. We were responsible for all costs and expenses associated with the purchase of the Williams Property, including escrow fees, cost of feasibility study, charges resulting from any tests, environmental assessments reports or surveys, and any exploration activity costs. Once we had concluded our analysis and had determined that it is feasible to close on the purchase of the Williams Property, doing so would give us full rights to begin mining operations.
At the recommendation of Mr. Sibthorpe, in January, 2004, Mr. Robert Coale (P.E.), another one of our directors and our current President, visited the site to see the overall geological setting and occurrence of mineralization and evaluated the drilling program proposed by MinQuest, the company that we would contract to co-ordinate any work programs undertaken. At that time, the metallurgical data and reports that had been collected from the sellers were reviewed. Mr. Coale’s analysis revealed that reagent (liquid chemicals used for leaching) consumptions are acceptable and deleterious compounds (things present in the ore that would be difficult to work with) were not apparent. He recommended bulk sampling at a selected location in the future once the definition of the ore body was further advanced through drilling. On January 31, 2004 Robert Sibthorpe wrote a report with a summary of the property, a review of the draft budget supplied by Richard Kern, our work program contractor, and a layout of the drilling program planned for the property.
The drilling was conducted throughout the spring and early summer of 2004, and in June 2004, Mr. Sibthorpe wrote a report incorporating the results of the drill program which encouraged us to pursue the project. Also in June 2004, Mr. Kern sent a memo to the Company regarding the potential at the Williams property. Mr. Kern’s recommendation was that we should proceed with the purchase of the Williams Property.
On February 19, 2004, we executed a formal agreement to purchase the Williams Property for $350,000. On February 27, 2004 we deposited $25,000 with the title company, which was acting as escrow agent, and three months after signing, on June 14, 2004, we deposited an additional $25,000. When the title company, acting as escrow agent, received the signature pages from the various sellers, the initial $25,000 deposit was to be delivered to the sellers. On the three-month anniversary after we signed the definitive agreement, the second $25,000 was to be delivered to the sellers. By mid-July, 2004, the escrow agent had received 19 of the 23 signatures, which under Arizona law was enough to complete the transaction, and on July 24, 2004, the first and second deposits of $25,000 each were released to the sellers. On or before the 6-month anniversary after we signed the definitive agreement, the balance of $300,000 was due to the sellers. As a result of our due diligence, we decided to complete the purchase of the Williams Property. On August 27, 2004 we paid the final $300,000 to the escrow agent for the closing of the sale. On November 11, 2004, the escrow agent released the $300,000 to the sellers for the closing of the sale, and, as a result, we now own 100% interest in the Williams Property.
Greenwood Claim
On January 18, 2005 the Company completed the acquisition of a single patented claim from an individual for $150,000.
Martinez Claims
The Company acquired five patented claims from Ramon and Edna Martinez for a total of $150,000. The Company made one payment of $75,000 on November 8, 2004 and made the final payment of $75,000 on February 14, 2005.
Ruth and Rattan Claims
On January 18, 2005, the Company made a single payment of $25,000 to acquire two patented claims known as the Ruth and Rattan claims.
Description and Location of the Moss Property
The Moss Property is located in Mohave County, Arizona in the historic Oatman District, and is located some 5 miles northwest of the town of Oatman, with Kingman, Arizona to the east, Laughlin, Nevada to the west and Las Vegas, Nevada to the north. Access is via gravel roads from Bullhead City.
Exploration History of the Moss Property
Discovered in 1864, the Moss Mine was the first gold discovery made in the Oatman District. Historical records show that the Oatman District produced up to two million ounces of gold mostly from underground mines. The Moss Mine was worked intermittently through the 1930’s but produced only minor amounts of gold. The mine lay idle until the early 1980’s when a number of mining companies explored the district. These companies included Billiton Minerals, Magma Copper, Golconda Resources and Addwest Minerals.
Work already completed on the Williams portion of the Moss Property includes a pre-feasibility study as well as 36,000 feet of primarily reverse circulation drilling which was conducted over twenty years ago. Reverse circulation drilling is a less expensive form of drilling that does not allow for the recovery of a tube or core of rock, in which the material is brought up from depth as a series of small chips of rock that are then bagged and sent in for analysis. Though this is a quicker and cheaper method of drilling, reverse circulation drilling does not give as much information about the underlying rocks.
Geology of the Moss Property
The project area is underlain by Tertiary quartz monzonite (a coarsely crystalline rock composed primarily of the minerals quartz, plagioclase and orthoclase) intruding tertiary volcanics. Precambrian basement rocks underlie the volcanics. The veins consist of quartz-calcite and lesser adularia. The principal vein is up to 45 feet thick and can be followed on surface for over 5,000 feet. The hanging wall of the veins commonly have several tens of feet of stockwork veining. Gold values are somewhat erratic, but appear to be highest in the thicker and deeper parts of the vein explored to date.
Current State of Exploration
The Moss Property presently does not have any mineral reserves. The property that is the subject to our mineral claims is undeveloped and does not contain any open-pit or underground mines. There is no mining plant or equipment located on the property that is the subject of the mineral claim. Currently, there is no power supply to the mineral claim. Our planned exploration program is exploratory in nature and no mineral reserves may ever be found. There is no drilled resource on our claims.
Geological Exploration Program
Our exploration of the Moss Property has consisted of geologic mapping, vein geochemical sampling and drill testing of the identified veins. The Moss Property contains the site of the former Moss Mine. The most significant historic mining at Moss Mine occurred on narrow veins that trend sub-parallel to the Moss Mine vein and dip steeply northerly. These veins should intersect the Moss Mine vein at depth. The deepest vein intercepts at Moss are less than 400 feet. The Ruth vein should intersect the Moss Mine vein at 800-900 feet below the surface. If the Moss Mine vein is the feeder for the Ruth vein it must contain similar gold values at that level. The Moss Mine vein needs drill testing to a depth of 900 feet to determine its potential to contain high-grade gold mineralization.
Phase 1 drilling has been completed at the Moss Property. A total of 36 holes were drilled totaling 8,807 feet. Thirty holes were drilled on the Gintoff Claim on the Moss Property, and six holes were drilled on one of the adjacent parcels of land. The easternmost section of the Property, which was mostly untested by drilling, was drilled with thirty reverse circulation holes. This allowed accurate cross-sections to be made for this area. The coverage on this section is generally two or three holes on 100 foot sections testing grades and widths from 50-250 feet down dip. In the western area, limited confirmation drilling was carried out and the results obtained were generally in line with the values obtained by previous operators. Geological information obtained may now provide a structural explanation for the lack of success obtained here to date by previous operators.
A study of all drilling results at the Moss Property indicates a tendency for total gold content to increase with intercept depth. Roughly 60% of the deeper holes have better intercepts than shallow holes. An example from our drilling tests the vein over a vertical extent of 300 feet. In this example the gold content nearly doubles between AR-5 and AR-23.
An expanded program of drilling began in April 2005, and was expected to be completed by May 2006. Approximately 12,000 feet of reverse circulation (RC) drilling was planned to be done to test for possible high-grade (0.30 ounces per ton or above) down-dip extensions of the Moss vein. We planned to drill 10 to 15 holes. The depths of these holes were to have ranged from 500 to 1,300 feet. The program budget for this program was $643,700.
The first portion of this expanded drilling program was expected to be completed by the fall of 2005. However, after eight holes were attempted, drilling was halted because of difficulty in drilling through the granite, because the drilling rig that we contracted to use was too light to penetrate the rock. We had sought to contract a heavier rig to continue the program, which we had expected to happen by December 2005. The remainder of the program was completed when the Company completed 6 core holes from November 2006 to February 2007 for a total amount drilled of 3,917 feet. The exploration program failed to find higher grades but it did show that the vein system continues to at least 800 feet below the surface and appears to be thickening.
Encouraging drilling results from earlier programs warrant an initial Scoping Study level investigation, which is the determination of the indicated size and grade of the deposit and possible methods of mining and recovering the gold and silver. Tonnage and grade will be determined by outlining the mineralization on sections constructed every 100 feet across the deposit and using the average grade of the drilling intersections. An open pit is then designed that would allow extraction of the mineral in deposit. The option of underground mining is also considered. Tests are conducted to determine the best method of extracting the gold and silver. These tests would include the amenability of “heap leaching”. Heap leaching is the piling of ore on an impermeable liner, circulating gold/silver-dissolving solutions (normally cyanide) through the pile or “heap” and recovering the gold/silver from the circulating solution using carbon. Another method that would be tested is “milling” to recover the gold and silver. Milling involves crushing and grinding the ore into tiny particles that allow the gold/silver to be removed by simple gravity separation techniques or by using chemicals in solution. Determination of the best methods of mining and recovery of the precious metals then allows production costs to be calculated.
In the spring of 2008, the Company submitted core samples to a laboratory where leach testing was conducted. Leaching was conducted in both bench scale (Bottle rolls) and in columns using crushed ore as the feed sample. Three column leach tests at 3 different crush sizes were completed on the Moss drilling samples. They were leached for 120 days. The fine crush of ¼ inch had 66% of the gold and 42% of the silver recovered in 120 days. The recovery curve is still not flat at the end of 120 days indicating additional gold/silver could be recovered. The recoveries are already near the 70% Au and 50% Ag that is average for the industry. The 1 inch crush column recovered 39% of the gold and 14% of the silver after 120 days, but the leach curve again indicates no significant decrease in % recovery by month indicating that greater recoveries may be obtained over longer periods of time.
Using the column leach data obtained from the testing program completed in April 2008 as well as additional information, the Company may engage an outside firm to conduct a preliminary economic analysis that will evaluate the overall value of the property considering metallurgical recovery, volume and gold grade of mineralized rock, capital and operating costs, and other factors. This information will be used to define additional work needed to enhance the value of the property.
Margarita Property
Acquisition of Interest
On January 29, 2008, the Company entered into an Assignment and Assumption Agreement (the “Agreement”) with American Goldrush Corp. (“Goldrush”) whereby Goldrush assigned all of its rights and obligations under the Margarita Property Option Agreement to the Company. Pursuant to the Agreement, the Company assumed the rights, and agreed to perform all of the duties and obligations, of Goldrush arising under the Margarita Property Option Agreement. Simultaneous with the execution and delivery of the Agreement, the Company paid Goldrush $200,000 which amount represents the full payment and satisfaction for the assignment to the Company by Goldrush.
Included in the assignment to the Company were all sums incurred by Goldrush in connection with its exploration of the Margarita Property which includes a reclamation bond previously paid by Goldrush to the Forest Service in Arizona, all expenditure credits incurred by Goldrush prior to the execution of the Agreement and all property option payments made to the Margarita Property owner. In addition, Goldrush also assigned all of its rights and obligations under the Finders’ Fee Agreement to the Company. Subsequent to the execution of the Agreement, Goldrush did not retain any interest in the Margarita Property.
The remaining annual option payments and minimum annual exploration expenditures under the Margarita Property Option Agreement are as noted below:
The underlying Margarita Property Option Agreement is subject to a 2 % net smelter return royalty to the property owner, James Sorrell (the “optionor”), upon production. The Company has the option (exercisable for 90 days following completion of a bankable feasibility study) to buy the optionor’s net smelter return interest for $500,000 per 1% increment or $1,000,000 for the entire 2% net smelter return interest.
In addition, the Margarita Property is subject to a Finder’s Fee Agreement. The Company has agreed to pay a fee equal to 10% of the Property Option Payments made during the first three years of the Margarita Property Option Agreement. It is estimated that if the Company makes all of the remaining scheduled property option payments, the amount to be paid under the Finder’s Fee Agreement by the Company will be $22,500. If the Company terminates the Margarita Property Option Agreement, the Company will not owe any further payments under the Finder’s Fee Agreement. If it has not been terminated earlier, the Finder’s Fee Agreement will terminate automatically on July 14, 2009.
On July 25, 2008, subsequent to the completion of a drill program on the Margarita Property, the Company terminated its option under the property option agreement and does not currently have any interest in the Margarita Property. In exchange for its release from its obligations under the Margarita Property Agreement, the Company agreed to pay the 2008 annual claim filings fees on the property of $8,268. Under the release agreement, the Company is not required to make the $100,000 payment due May 31, 2008.
Description and Location of the Margarita Property
The original Margarita Property consisted of 39 unpatented claims covering approximately 640 acres in the Oro Blanco Mining District of Santa Cruz County, Arizona. In the first quarter of 2007, the Company staked an additional 30 claims covering 540 acres that became part of the ground covered by the Margarita Property Option Agreement. The claims are within the Coronado National Forest, and are approximately 10 miles north of the Mexican border. The Margarita Property is best reached by traveling south from Tucson on I-19 to the Arivaca Road and following the paved road to Arivaca, thence about 11 miles over the gravel-surfaced Ruby Road to the project area.
The Margarita Property consists of 69 unpatented claims covering approximately 1,180 acres in the Oro Blanco Mining District of Santa Cruz County, Arizona. The claims are within the Coronado National Forest, and are approximately 10 miles north of the Mexican border.
Exploration History of the Margarita Property
The Margarita Property is centrally located within a broad area of numerous old mines and prospects dating back to early Spanish colonial times where gold, silver, lead and copper were mined from Mesozoic and early Tertiary igneous rock units. Previous work on the property appears to demonstrate the presence of a zone at the Margarita Property of over 4,000 feet by 1,500 feet encompassing half a million tons of altered and mineralized tuff in a flat lying zone exhibiting gold mineralization. The mineralization averages between 0.05 and 0.06 troy ounces of gold per ton associated with intense silicification and clay pyrite alteration.
The previous work undertaken by the various explorers of the Margarita Property had not previously been collected in one location. During 2006, Goldrush expended most of its exploration activity collecting property data from various sources, preparing maps, and visiting the property to match the data with physical observation. Based on a review of all of the data available to Goldrush, several possible drill targets were identified including targets that were not located on the existing boundary of the Margarita Property. As a result, the Goldrush staked an additional 30 claims.
Goldrush formally approved a work plan for drilling on the Margarita Property. However, due to difficulties with locating a suitable contractor to undertake the drilling and due to insufficient funds available to Goldrush, it decided to assign its rights and obligations to the property to the Company.
Geology of the Margarita Property
The gold mineralization at the Margarita Property and related diggings in the area occurs as disseminations within limonite stained tuffaceous rocks exhibiting intense silicification. There are five such zones within the claim group with Margarita being the largest. Other similar zones have been identified outside of the claim boundary. Where exposed at the surface, the silicified rocks occur as low hills or modest, irregular hills of limonite stained tuff. They appear as tabular or manto like zones within tuffaceous beds in the subsurface. Prior drilling results show that the silicification and associated gold mineralization has lateral continuity but does not occupy the entire tuff bed, and no significant mineralization was reported from the quartz monzonite although the monzonite is believed by some to be the source of the mineralization. In the subsurface, the tuff occur as bands up to 50 feet or so in thickness alternating with parallel units of quartz monzonite. Extensive shallow drilling has shown that, in addition to the surface occurrences, there are as many as three mantos within a few hundred feet of the surface which are similar in character and mineralization to those at the surface.
The Margarita Property is centrally located within a broad area of numerous old mines and prospects dating back to early Spanish colonial times where gold, silver, lead and copper were mined from Mesozoic and early Tertiary igneous rock units. Previous work on the property appears to demonstrate the presence of a zone at the Margarita Property of over 4,000 feet by 1,500 feet encompassing half a million tons of altered and mineralized tuff in a flat lying zone exhibiting gold mineralization. The mineralization averages between 0.05 and 0.06 troy ounces of gold per ton associated with intense silicification and clay pyrite alteration.
The accepted view of the intrusive relationship of the quartz monzonite with the parallel zones of tuff and the monzonite’s relationship to the mineralizing event could be subject to alternative interpretations leading to broader potentials for bulk tonnage mineralization.
Current State of Exploration
The Margarita Property presently does not have any mineral reserves. The property that is the subject to our mineral claims is undeveloped and does not contain any open-pit or underground mines. There is no mining plant or equipment located on the property that is the subject of the mineral claim. Currently, there is no power supply to the mineral claim. Our planned exploration program is exploratory in nature and no mineral reserves may ever be found. There is no drilled resource on our claims.
Geological Exploration Program
The Company began its $350,000 drill program in February 2008 and completed it in May 2008. The drill program was budgeted for ten core holes for a total of 7,500 feet. All of the holes were drilled using reverse circulation (RC) drilling techniques with samples being recovered for each five-foot interval of drilling. Samples were fire assayed for gold and for a suite of 34 other elements by inductively coupled plasma (ICP) analysis.
The location of the drill holes was established by considering the surface expressions of the mineral structure as well as certain geophysical data prepared by previous lease holders. The purpose of the drilling program is to test the theoretical geologic model developed for the property by defining possible higher-grade deep feeder zones, and mineralized zone structure and continuity. Based on the poor results of the drill program, the Company terminated the Margarita Property Option Agreement.
Whiskey Property
Acquisition of Interest
On March 15, 2008, the Company executed a property option agreement with MinQuest granting the Company the right to acquire 100% of the mining interests in the Whiskey Property (“Whiskey”) currently controlled by MinQuest. Annual option payments and minimum annual exploration expenditures under the agreement are as noted below:
Upon execution of the Agreement, the Company paid MinQuest $50,000 in relation to the execution of the agreement. Since the payment obligations are non-refundable, if any payments under the Agreement are not made, the Company will lose any previous payments made and all its rights to the respective property. If all said payments under the Agreement are made, then the Company will acquire all mining interests in the property. If the Company fails to make any payment when due, the Agreement gives the Company a 60-day grace period to pay the amount of the deficiency. MinQuest retained a 3% royalty of the aggregate proceeds received by the Company from any smelter or other purchaser of any ores, concentrates, metals or other material of commercial value produced from the property, minus the cost of transportation of the ores, concentrates or metals, including related insurance, and smelting and refining charges, including penalties.
The Company has the one time right exercisable for 90 days following completion of a bankable feasibility study to buy up to one half (50%) of MinQuest’s royalty interest (i.e. an amount equal to 1.5% of the royalty interest) for $2,250,000. The right to purchase the said royalty interest shall be exercised by the Company by providing the MinQuest with notice of the purchase accompanied by payment in the amount of USD $2,250,000.
The Company may use MinQuest for its mineral exploration expertise on the property. In addition, any mineral interests staked, located, granted or acquired by either the Company or MinQuest which is located within a 1 mile radius of the property will be included in the option granted to the Company for the respective property. The agreement will terminate if the Company fails to comply with its obligations in the agreement and fails to cure such alleged breach. If the Company gives notice that it denies a default has occurred, the matter shall be determined finally through such means of dispute resolution as such matter has been subjected to by either party.
Description and Location of the Whiskey Property
The Whiskey is located in Mineral County, Nevada and currently consists of 83 unpatented mining claims. Access is via paved highway, gravel and dirt roads and the land is administered by the federal Bureau of Land Management.
Exploration History of the Whiskey Property
Portions of the property have been explored by Conoco from 1971 to 1973, Grayhill/US Minerals Exploration from 1981-1985, Homestake/Combined Metals Reduction from 1986-1991, Santa Fe Minerals from 1992 to 1994, and Newmont from 2003-2005. During the bulk of the exploration work the property was divided by ownership interests into the west and east halves. Only Newmont and MinQuest have completely controlled all of the alteration in the basin.
Past exploration includes rock chip sampling, geologic mapping, and drilling. Advanced argillic alteration is widespread along a set of east-southeast trending fault zones covering an area 17,000 feet long by 6000 feet wide. The alteration zone is covered on the east end by post-mineral volcanic cover and on the west end by recent alluvium. Drilling by the Homestake-Combined Metals Reduction joint venture was restricted to the southeast portion of the claim group. This effort encountered anomalous to ore-grade gold values in one of several siliceous knobs at the edge of the basalt. The drilling completed by Santa Fe and Dennison on the west end of the property encountered anomalous to ore grade gold values in 6 of 15 holes. The most recent work by Newmont suggested excellent potential for gold mineralization along strike of known gold mineralization, under alluvium cover and under post-mineral basalt cover. Newmont’s target size was 3 million ounces. Targeting was primarily under post-mineral cover. Newmont dropped the property before testing their exploration model.
Geology of the Whiskey Property
The property lies within the Walker Lane structural zone and within a well mineralized easterly trend of volcanic hosted gold-silver deposits starting at Bodie and trending through Paradise Peak. A possible Cretaceous granite outcrops on the northeast portion of the property. The granite is equigranular and coarsely crystalline. Conoco initially believed the intrusive to be responsible for the large area of alteration within the Whiskey Flat area because of the intensely argillized and silicified rocks surrounding the intrusive and the potassic alteration developed along the southern margin of the stock. This conviction led to the relatively minor amount of mapping and sampling conducted during the 1971 through 1973 field seasons.
Tertiary volcanic rock consisting of andesite flows, rhyolite tuffs, pyroclastics flows and volcanoclastic sediments comprise the entire package of pre-mineral rocks. This package of pre-mineral rocks has been overlain by Tertiary to Quaternary age post-mineral basalt flows and extensive wind-blown sand. High angle faults trend easterly forming the north and south boundaries of the Whiskey Flats basin. Northerly trending faults offset the easterly trending fault zones in several places. At least one low angle fault occurs along the southern border of the property.
Alteration within the basin and along the margins consists of opaline replacement, intense argillization, and intense silicification of all pre-mineral rock types along structures. The alteration events are typical of Paradise Peak and Borealis style alteration events. The alteration can be traced over 17,000 feet in length and covers a broad area about 6500 feet across. One area of intense clay alteration has been exploited as a soil conditioner in the past. Considerable prospecting for metals has occurred throughout the rest of the area as demonstrated by numerous pits and shafts. Portions of the opaline alteration near the center of the claim block have reportedly been exploited for mercury. However, the best gold in drilling failed to show any evidence of prospecting.
The historic shafts and pits prospected brecciated, silicified and iron stained fault zones. Many of these breccias contain silica and/or alunite cementing the breccia fragments. Outcropping, intensely silicified rock on the southeast portion of the claim group is reported to contain gold at surface. This type of silicification forms bold knobs that have survived erosion and peak through the post-mineral basalt capping. Previous drilling efforts have focused on these intensely silicified knobs and their immediate projections. The early exploration successes in the surrounding area have driven much of the exploration philosophy at Whiskey Flats.
Initially, exploration in the Borealis district successfully identified discrete, “dish shaped” ore bodies by drilling on top of silicified knobs. This same exploration technique was employed at the Whiskey Flats property throughout all of the exploration programs described above. This method of exploration at Whiskey Flats has identified at least two areas of gold mineralization. The eastern end of the property hosts ore grade gold mineralization within a siliceous knob which is covered on the south and east by young basalt. The western end of the property contains several siliceous knobs with sub-ore grade intercepts over substantial widths. These knobs of silica dip to the south, covered on the south by basalt and on the west by wind-blown sand.
The recent identification of “feeder structures” under opaline silica at the Borealis Freedom Flats deposit has shifted the exploration philosophy to evaluation of the structures along strike of the apparent silica knobs. Several fault zones within the boundaries of the Whiskey claims were noted to be highly silicified and numerous faults contain opalized material on surface. These fault zones trend toward the silica knobs and are believed to be the structural features that provided permeability for the mobilization of mineralizing fluids. No drilling has targeted these fault zones.
Current State of Exploration
The Whiskey Property presently does not have any mineral reserves. The property that is the subject to our mineral claims is undeveloped and does not contain any open-pit or underground mines. There is no mining plant or equipment located on the property that is the subject of the mineral claim. Currently, there is no power supply to the mineral claim. Our planned exploration program is exploratory in nature and no mineral reserves may ever be found. There is no drilled resource on our claims.
Geological Exploration Program
The Company has received recommendations from MinQuest regarding an exploration program for the Whiskey Property. However, as the Whiskey Property was only acquired by the Company in March 2008, the Company has not hey determined a budget or work program for the property.
NK Property
Acquisition of Interest
On March 15, 2008, the Company executed a property option agreement with MinQuest granting the Company the right to acquire 100% of the mining interests in the NK Property (“NK”) currently controlled by MinQuest. On July 25, 2008 the NK Property Option Agreement was amended whereby the annual minimum work expenditures were lowered to match those of the Weepah Agreement as the two properties are at a similar stage of exploration. Annual option payments and minimum annual exploration expenditures under the agreement are as noted below:
Upon execution of the Agreement, the Company paid MinQuest $20,000 in relation to the execution of the agreement. Since the payment obligations are non-refundable, if any payments under the Agreement are not made, the Company will lose any previous payments made and all its rights to the respective property. If all said payments under the Agreement are made, then the Company will acquire all mining interests in the property. If the Company fails to make any payment when due, the Agreement gives the Company a 60-day grace period to pay the amount of the deficiency. MinQuest retained a 3% royalty of the aggregate proceeds received by the Company from any smelter or other purchaser of any ores, concentrates, metals or other material of commercial value produced from the property, minus the cost of transportation of the ores, concentrates or metals, including related insurance, and smelting and refining charges, including penalties.
The Company has the one time right exercisable for 90 days following completion of a bankable feasibility study to buy up to one half (50%) of MinQuest’s royalty interest (i.e. an amount equal to 1.5% of the royalty interest) for $2,250,000. The right to purchase the said royalty interest shall be exercised by the Company by providing the MinQuest with notice of the purchase accompanied by payment in the amount of USD $2,250,000.
The Company may use MinQuest for its mineral exploration expertise on the property. In addition, any mineral interests staked, located, granted or acquired by either the Company or MinQuest which is located within a 1 mile radius of the property will be included in the option granted to the Company for the respective property. The agreement will terminate if the Company fails to comply with its obligations in the agreement and fails to cure such alleged breach. If the Company gives notice that it denies a default has occurred, the matter shall be determined finally through such means of dispute resolution as such matter has been subjected to by either party.
Description and Location of the NK Property
The NK currently consists of 24 unpatented mining claims and is located in Mineral County in an unincorporated mining area in west-central Nevada. Access is via paved highways and gravel roads and drainages.
Exploration History of the NK Property
The previous sampling and mapping indicates at least three separate mineralized zones from 30 to 80 feet thick bisecting the property from south to north. An additional area of alteration is indicated from silicified chips in float adjacent to the range front fault which parallels the eastern border of the range. Along with silicification of the host rock, some areas contain quartz veins as stockworks, barite and fluorite veining, and occasional gossanous areas of high sulfide content. Exploration work listed below has focused on apparent surface expressions of mineralization.
Westely Mines - 1984-1985 - Sampling and mapping
Brancote - 1991-1992 - Mapping and sampling
Hemlo, Cordex - 1993-1994 - Mapping and sampling
Geology of the NK Property
The regional geology consists of a thick pile of Tertiary to Oligocene volcanics ranging from rhyolite tuffs to basalt flows. Generally, the older rhyolite units have been altered and mineralized while the younger basalt flow post dates the mineralization.
Alteration consists of bleaching, argillization and silicification along low and high angle fault zones. Quartz veining filling microfractures, barite and fluorite veins, and occasional gossan zones representing massive sulfide fill faults and fractures within the altered areas. The best gold values are related to areas of silicified volcanic rock with secondary druzy quartz veinlets filing micro-fractures.
MinQuest believes the best target is the range front fault zone. Probable alteration of volcanoclastic sediments and rhyolite tuff appear to be related to the range front fault zone. This fault may have contributed additional structural preparation allowing further alteration and mineralization to occur. The entire structural zone has been mostly covered by shedding material from the hillside above. Further to the east argillized and opaline altered volcanic rock appears intermittently in the base of some ravines.
Current State of Exploration
The NK Property presently does not have any mineral reserves. The property that is the subject to our mineral claims is undeveloped and does not contain any open-pit or underground mines. There is no mining plant or equipment located on the property that is the subject of the mineral claim. Currently, there is no power supply to the mineral claim. Our planned exploration program is exploratory in nature and no mineral reserves may ever be found. There is no drilled resource on our claims.
Geological Exploration Program
The Company has received recommendations from MinQuest regarding an exploration program for the NK Property. However, as the NK Property was only acquired by the Company in March 2008, the Company has not hey determined a budget or work program for the property.
Weepah Property
Acquisition of Interest
On March 15, 2008, the Company executed a property option agreement with MinQuest granting the Company the right to acquire 100% of the mining interests in the Weepah Property (“Weepah”) currently controlled by MinQuest. Annual option payments and minimum annual exploration expenditures under the agreement are as noted below:
Upon execution of the Agreement, the Company paid MinQuest $20,000 in relation to the execution of the agreement. Since the payment obligations are non-refundable, if any payments under the Agreement are not made, the Company will lose any previous payments made and all its rights to the respective property. If all said payments under the Agreement are made, then the Company will acquire all mining interests in the property. If the Company fails to make any payment when due, the Agreement gives the Company a 60-day grace period to pay the amount of the deficiency. MinQuest retained a 3% royalty of the aggregate proceeds received by the Company from any smelter or other purchaser of any ores, concentrates, metals or other material of commercial value produced from the property, minus the cost of transportation of the ores, concentrates or metals, including related insurance, and smelting and refining charges, including penalties.
The Company has the one time right exercisable for 90 days following completion of a bankable feasibility study to buy up to one half (50%) of MinQuest’s royalty interest (i.e. an amount equal to 1.5% of the royalty interest) for $2,250,000. The right to purchase the said royalty interest shall be exercised by the Company by providing the MinQuest with notice of the purchase accompanied by payment in the amount of USD $2,250,000.
The Company may use MinQuest for its mineral exploration expertise on the property. In addition, any mineral interests staked, located, granted or acquired by either the Company or MinQuest which is located within a 1 mile radius of the property will be included in the option granted to the Company for the respective property. The agreement will terminate if the Company fails to comply with its obligations in the agreement and fails to cure such alleged breach. If the Company gives notice that it denies a default has occurred, the matter shall be determined finally through such means of dispute resolution as such matter has been subjected to by either party.
Description and Location of the Weepah Property
The Weepah Property currently consists of 14 unpatented claims and is located in Esmeralda County, Nevada approximately 6 miles (9.6 km) northeast of Silver Peak and 21 miles (33.6 km) west-northwest of Goldfield, Nevada. Access is via 7 miles (11 km) of paved and gravel roads from the town of Silver Peak. The Weepah Hills prospect is approximately 5 miles (8 km) south of the historic Weepah mine and 8.5 miles (14 km) northeast of the Mineral Ridge mine.
Exploration History of the Weepah Property
The Weepah Property was likely first discovered in the 1860’s when Silver Peak was first developed. No production is reported for the area, although historic workings suggest some small shipments may have occurred from high-grade veins. If so, the ore was probably shipped to the nearby Silver Peak mill. Recent exploration efforts began in the early 1980's when Grayhill Exploration sampled the property. Since then WX Syndicate, Newmont and Mountain West Exploration have conducted exploration efforts totaling over US$100,000 in expenditures.
·
Grayhill Exploration 1983-84 Geochemical sampling
·
WX Syndicate 1986-91 4 RC holes for 500 feet (160 m)
·
Newmont 1988 Geochemical sampling
·
Mountain West 1991-92 Geochemical Sampling
A total of 500 feet (160 m) in 4 holes have been completed on the property. All of the drilling was shallow and drilled in the pediment. Drilling targeted the extension of mineralization within the range. Drilling failed to encounter the mineralized zone because geology of the area was not understood. This lack of understanding and dearth of exploration within the outcropping mineralized area leaves substantial potential for development of ore reserves.
Geology of the Weepah Property
The property lies within the southern portion of the Walker Lane structural corridor. Mineralization is hosted within the PreCambrian Wyman Formation, Reed Dolomite and Lone Mountain Formation. The Wyman Formation is composed of up to 300 meters of micaceous shale, thin to thick-bedded limestone and interbedded quartzite. The Reed Dolomite is composed of over 3000 feet of thick bedded dolostone with interbedded limestone and quartzite. The Lone Mountain Formation is composed of more than 2100 feet of massive dolomite and limestone with thin interbeds of shaley limestone. Gold and silver mineralization at the Weepah are associated with quartz stockworks, silicified limestone and disseminations within low and high-angle shear zones.
The Weepah Hills property contains excellent untested sediment hosted mineralization. Gold and silver mineralization identified at the Weepah Hills property is of similar grades as the nearby Weepah and Mineral Ridge mines. Surface sampling has identified two zones from 1200 to 1500 feet long and up to 50 feet wide.
Structure is the most important factor in ore control in the Silver Peak Mining District. At the Mineral Ridge deposit ore controls are believed to be associated with detachment faults and high angle shear zones. These structures have developed a system of stacked mineralized zones amenable to open-pit mining methods. The historic Weepah mine is associated with a high angle fault zone with coincident lateral migration of mineralizing fluids.
The Weepah Hills property has aspects of both nearby mines showing both low and high angle fault zones and associated mineralization. The Weepah Hills mineralization is largely localized along three parallel structures which trend northerly. The low angle structures measure 20 to 30 degrees dipping southeasterly and nearly parallel to bedding. The high angle structures dip 70 to 80 degrees to the west. The mineralization has been offset by a west-northwest fault on the south end and becomes covered by massive dolomite to the north. Gold/silver is hosted by silicified limestone, quartz veined shale and iron rich shear zones. The highest grade mineralization occurs in iron rich quartz veins within shale beds. Numerous dikes of intermediate to felsic origin have been mapped in within the core area.
Current State of Exploration
The Weepah Property presently does not have any mineral reserves. The property that is the subject to our mineral claims is undeveloped and does not contain any open-pit or underground mines. There is no mining plant or equipment located on the property that is the subject of the mineral claim. Currently, there is no power supply to the mineral claim. Our planned exploration program is exploratory in nature and no mineral reserves may ever be found. There is no drilled resource on our claims.
Geological Exploration Program
The Company has received recommendations from MinQuest regarding an exploration program for the Weepah Property. However, as the Weepah Property was only acquired by the Company in March 2008, the Company has not hey determined a budget or work program for the property.
Imperial Property
Acquisition of Interest
On May 30, 2008, the Company entered into an Assignment and Assumption Agreement (the “Agreement”) with American Goldfields Inc., a Nevada corporation (“Goldfields”), to acquire the exclusive option to an undivided right, title and interest in 22 unpatented Federal mining claims located in Esmeralda County, Nevada. Goldfields had originally acquired its exclusive option on the Property on June 30, 2004, when it entered into a Property Option Agreement (the “Property Agreement”) with MinQuest, the owner of the Imperial Property.
Pursuant to the Agreement, the Company assumed the rights, and agreed to perform all of the duties and obligations, of Goldfields arising under the Property Agreement. Simultaneous with the execution and delivery of the Agreement, the Company paid Goldfields $250,000, which amount represents the full payment and satisfaction for the assignment by Goldfields to the Company of the Property Agreement and all rights and obligations with respect thereto. Included in the assignment were, without limitation, all sums incurred by Goldfields in connection with the Property, specifically (i) the refunding of the reclamation bond previously paid by Goldfields to the Bureau of Land Management in Nevada in the amount of $13,255; (ii) the approximately $277,000 of expenditures incurred by Goldfields prior to the Agreement; and (iii) the $120,000 paid to MinQuest Inc. as option payments under the Property Agreement.
Description and Location of the Imperial Property
The Imperial Property is located in Esmeralda County, Nevada, approximately 60 kilometres southwest of Tonopah and 300 kilometers northwest of Las Vegas in the Railroad Springs Mining District. The property consists of 24 mineral claims elongated in an east-west direction, covering approximately 450 acres located in Railroad Pass between the Montezuma Range to the northeast and the Silver Peak Range to the southwest. The property covers portions of two adjacent US Geological Survey 7 ½’ quadrangle map sheets: Lida Wash, Nevada and Montezuma Peak, SW Nevada. The center of the property is situated at approximately 117o 31’ 43” West longitude and 37o 33’ North latitude.
Land claims in the district are administered under Department of Interior, Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”) under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976. The Imperial claims cover portions of Sections 34, 35, and 36 in Township 4S, Range 40 East in Esmeralda County, Nevada. None of the claims have been legally surveyed. The property is most easily accessed from the community of Silver Peak, Nevada by following US route 95 west from Tonopah for a distance of 35 kilometers and turning south onto paved State Highway 295 for 21 kilometers and then west on a secondary gravel road for 500 meters to the eastern claim boundary.
MinQuest is the registered owner of 14 of the claims that make up the Imperial Property. Ten of the claims (Lida 1 to Lida 10) are registered to Richard Kern, Michael Forth, and James Motter. Under the terms of a Letter Agreement, the Lida claims have been leased to MinQuest for a period of 20 years. The lease allows MinQuest to transfer title to third parties providing all conditions of the original agreement are met.
Exploration History of the Imperial Property
The Imperial Property was first developed in the 1920’s but apparently had little or no production until the late 1930’s. The Imperial Mine produced approximately 10,000 tons of ore and was probably shut down at the beginning of World War II. The mine has two adits, the longest of which has approximately 2,600 feet of drifts and crosscuts. A 200 foot shaft, which is not accessible, is also located on the property.
The property has been explored by Energy Reserves Group, Goldsil Mining, Felmont Oil, and Nevada Star Resource Corporation. Felmont conducted the bulk of the work during 1983 - 1984 including drilling 19 reverse circulation holes. Five of these holes intercepted significant thickness of oxide gold in “Carlin-style” mineralization. Six of their holes were drilled on the area that hosted the Imperial Mine. No other holes were drilled on this target that is more than a mile long. Felmont dropped the property partly because they lost the rights to the portion of the claim covering the Imperial Mine and partly because they were taken over by Homestake.
Nevada Star conducted a soil survey over the non-Imperial Mine claim block in 1987 and partially tested the area around two of the better Felmont holes with shallow, close-spaced grid drilling. This work which defined an area of gold mineralization and confirmed the presence of Carlin-style gold in silty rocks adjacent to northeast trending high angle feeder faults, was to be followed up by drill testing of this and several other targets. However, Nevada Star was unable to raise the capital needed to continue and relinquished the property.
Goldfields completed a two phase exploration drill program that focused on the high-grade vein and disseminated gold targets within the Imperial Property. The program included 31 reverse circulation holes for a total of 7,935 feet of drilling.
The first phase of the program was completed in the fall of 2004 and included 10 drill holes for a total of 2,995 feet. All of these holes were drilled on the Imperial Target. In addition to the drilling Goldfields has also conducted underground sampling. A total of 40 samples have been taken of quartz vein related mineralization underground. This work confirmed the presence of high grade values in the two adits sampled and will help target further drilling.
Of the first ten drill holes drilled, several intersected stopes which were not visible on existing underground maps. This was to be expected to some extent, as Phase I of the drill program was designed to test an area of previous underground mining which had already had extensive workings. Of particular interest was drill hole IR-4 which intersected 10 feet of high grade gold. This 10 foot interval (105’ to 115’) averages 0.50 oz/ton gold occurs within a 40 foot interval (110’ to 140’) that averages 0.154 oz/ton gold. Seven of the ten holes drilled contain gold intercepts exceeding 1.0 ppm (0.029 oz/ton).
The second phase of the drilling was completed in the fall of 2005. This phase included 21 holes for a total of 4,940 feet. Goldfields drilled 14 holes in the Resource Target area with all but 5 containing +0.01 oz/ton gold intercepts. Two of the holes intersected, or came close to intersecting, the feeder structure within the favorable host sediment. Hole IR-22 contained 35 feet averaging 0.072 oz/ton gold and IR-23 contained 25 feet at 0.034 oz/ton gold including 5 feet at 0.096 oz/ton at the bottom of the hole. The drilling indicates the gold is located within one nearly flat-lying favorable sedimentary unit (a calcareous siltstone) that is approximately 50 feet thick. Gold grade drops off quickly as one moves away from the feeder fault. Holes drilled beneath the mineralized unit, even those intersecting the feeder fault, were barren. The flat-lying mineralization appears to dip gently to the northwest and is approximately 200 feet wide and 40 to 50 feet thick. The gold bearing horizon has not been drilled to the southwest.
Two holes targeted the Jasperoid Breccia Target with one hole being drilled under the gold bearing jasperoid and another targeting the possible intersection of the northeast trending feeder fault with the Imperial fault. Both of these holes (IR-25 and26) were barren. Just as at the Resource Target, these holes drilled beneath the favorable stratigraphy and missed the mineralization. Future drilling should be collared above the favorable horizon in proximity to the feeder fault.
In addition to the drilling, a total of 40 channel (continuous and consistent amount) samples were taken across veins exposed in the upper and lower adits. Sample widths were noted. Once at the assay lab each was weighed. Sample preparation, performed by ALS Chemex in Reno, Nevada, consisted of crushing the entire sample, splitting off 1,000 grams, pulverizing all 1,000 grams and splitting off 50 grams of this pulp for fire assay for gold and 50 grams for silver.
Geology of the Imperial Property
The geology of the property is described in a December, 2002 report by Geoffrey N. Goodall, President of Global Geological Consultants Ltd., a private consulting firm. Regionally, the Imperial Property is located within the Walker Lane which hosts several precious metal deposits. Two distinct types of gold mineralization occur on the Imperial Property. The first type is associated with high angle bodies of jasperoid that outcrop along the east-west axis of the property. The second type of mineralization is identified from drill hole data in the eastern part of the property. Here gold mineralization is associated with flat lying bedding and is disseminated throughout highly altered limonite stained decalcified siltstones.
Structurally, two fault sets appear closely related to mineralization. The Imperial Fault and other associated west-northwest structural zones have received the bulk of the exploration within the district. Numerous northeast trending faults, some of which are shown by soil geochemistry, have received little attention as possible feeders. Nearly all gold anomalies from the eastern half of the claims have a northeast trend. These anomalies are thought to be leakage along feeder faults.
Three primary Carlin-type targets are present at Imperial. The first and most important is the Imperial Target that has only one hole on the favourable side of the approximately 1,600 meter long structure. The second target, called the Resource Target is an open-ended 500 meter long gold in soil anomaly along a northeast trending fault system. A final target called the Jasperoid Breccia Target is a large anomaly under cover in the central portion of the claim group. The anomaly is 400 meters long and has gold in soil anomaly at its west end.
Current State of Exploration
The Imperial Property presently does not have any mineral reserves. The property that is the subject to our mineral claims is undeveloped and does not contain any open-pit or underground mines. There is no mining plant or equipment located on the property that is the subject of the mineral claim. Currently, there is no power supply to the mineral claim. Our planned exploration program is exploratory in nature and no mineral reserves may ever be found. There is no drilled resource on our claims.
Geological Exploration Program
The Company is currently evaluating the drill locations and results of the programs completed by Goldfields in order to determine the next phase of exploration for the Imperial Property.
Item 3.