Item 2. Description of Properties.
We do not lease or own any real property for our corporate offices. We currently maintain our corporate office on a month-to-month basis at 3651 Lindell Road, Suite D165, Las Vegas, Nevada 89103. Management believes that our office space is suitable for our current needs.
Our property holdings as of May 31, 2016 consist of:
·Bruner, Bruner Expansion and Vernal Properties
·Windy Peak Property
Bruner, Bruner Expansion and Vernal Properties
Map showing the location of our Bruner and Vernal properties located in Central Western Nevada.
Acquisition of Interests - Bruner, Bruner Expansion and Vernal properties
Pursuant to a Property Option Agreement (the “BV Agreement”), dated as of July 25, 2003, with MinQuest, Inc., a Nevada Company (“MinQuest”), we acquired the option to earn a 100% interest in the Bruner and Vernal mineral exploration properties located in Nevada. Together, these two properties originally consisted of 28 unpatented mining claims on a total of 560 acres in the northwest trending Walker Lane located in western central Nevada. The Bruner position was subsequently expanded from 16 unpatented mining claims to 80 unpatented mining claims bringing the total at Bruner to approximately 1,653 acres. Any additional claims agreed by the Company to be staked by MinQuest within 2 miles from the existing perimeter of the Property boundaries shall form part of the BV Agreement.
In order to earn a 100% interest in these two properties, option payments totaling $92,500 and an additional $500,000 in exploration expenditures were required. All mining interests in the property are subject to MinQuest retaining a 3% royalty of the aggregate proceeds from any smelter or other purchaser of any ores, concentrates, metals or other material of commercial value produced from the property, minus the cost of transportation of the ores, concentrates or metals, including related insurance, and smelting and refining charges.
Pursuant to the BV Agreement, we have a one-time option to purchase a portion of MinQuest’s royalty interest at a rate of $1,000,000 for each 1%. We may exercise our option 90 days following completion of a bankable feasibility study of the Bruner and Vernal properties, which, as it relates to a mineral resource or reserve, is an evaluation of the economics for the extraction (mining), processing and marketing of a defined ore reserve that would justify financing from a banking or financing institution for putting the mine into production.
To date, the Company has paid the option payments totaling $92,500, and has accumulated approximately $625,070 and $79,760 of exploration expenditures on the Bruner and Vernal properties, respectively. These expenditures have satisfied the requirements of the BV Agreement and 100% interest in these two properties has been transferred to Patriot, subject to MinQuest retaining a 3% royalty.
On April 16, 2010, the Company entered into an Assignment Agreement with its wholly owned subsidiary, Provex Resources, Inc., a Nevada Company, to assign the exclusive option to an undivided right, title and interest in the Bruner, Bruner Expansion and Vernal properties to Provex. Pursuant to the Agreement, Provex assumed the rights, and agreed to perform all of the duties and obligations, of the Company arising under the original property option agreements.
On May 28, 2010 Provex entered into an exclusive right and option agreement (“Bruner Option Agreement”) with Canamex Resources Corp. (“Canamex”) whereby Canamex may earn a 70% (or up to 75% if a bankable feasibility study is performed) undivided interest in the Bruner and Bruner Expansion properties, herein after collectively referred to as the “Bruner Property”. Upon the completion of the terms of the Bruner Option Agreement by Canamex, and upon earning its’ initial interest, the parties agreed to negotiate a definitive joint venture agreement in good faith which will supersede the current Bruner Option Agreement.
On April 1, 2009, the Company entered into a Property Option Agreement (the “AIV Agreement”) with American International Ventures Inc. (“AIV”), to acquire the exclusive option to an undivided right, title and interest in 28 patented Federal mining claims and millsites located in Nye County, Nevada. Simultaneous with the execution and delivery of the AIV Agreement, the Company paid AIV $30,000. In order to earn its option in the Property, the Company agreed to make annual property option payments each year on April 1 consisting of $35,000 in 2010, $40,000 in 2011, $45,000 in 2012, $50,000 in 2013, $55,000 in 2014, $60,000 in 2015, and $1,185,000 in 2016. Following said payments, the Company would be deemed to have exercised its option under the AIV Agreement and be entitled to an undivided 100% right, title and interest in and to the Bruner Property Expansion subject to a 1.5% Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) royalty payable to AIV and a 2% NSR payable to the former Property owner. The 2% NSR royalty may be purchased by the Company for a total payment of $500,000 and 1% of AIV’s 1.5% NSR royalty can be purchased by the Company for an additional payment of $500,000 at any time up to 30 days after beginning mine construction. The claims optioned under the agreement with AIV are contiguous with the Company’s existing Bruner property claims and therefore are also subject to the terms and conditions of the original BV Agreement with MinQuest.
In November 2015, Canamex announced that it had completed the purchase of the patented claims from AIV for US$760,000, securing ownership of those claims for the joint venture (in anticipation of Canamex earning 70% of the Bruner project) and saving the joint venture US$425,000. Canamex purchased the claims directly from American International Ventures Inc. (“AIV”), subject to Patriot Gold’s rights under an Option Agreement dated April 1, 2009 that gives Patriot Gold the ability to purchase those patented claims by making a final payment of US$1,185,000 on or before April 1, 2016. Both Canamex and Patriot Gold expect, however, that those patented claims will be conveyed to the joint venture once the more comprehensive joint venture agreement has been executed.
During the first half of 2016 it was determined by the company that Canamex had successfully earned a 70% interest in the Bruner Property according to the terms of the Bruner Option Agreement, and the parties began working to negotiate the terms of a definitive joint venture agreement. This joint venture agreement is still being negotiated.
Bruner Property
Description and Location of the Bruner Property
The Bruner Property (“Bruner”) is located approximately 130 miles east-southeast of Reno, Nevada at the northern end of the Paradise Range. Access from Fallon, the closest town of any size, is by 50 miles of paved highway and 16 miles of gravel roads. There is no mining plant or equipment located within the property boundaries. Currently, there is no power or water supply to the mineral claims; however, a subsurface water right has been granted by the Nevada Division of Water Resources. The water right approval, for mining purposes, allows for a 78 cubic feet per second or 350 gallons per minute well on the west side of the Bruner Property.
The Bruner consists of 27 patented claims (for an area of approximately 500 acres) and 230 unpatented lode claims, (for an area in excess of 3,000 acres). Included in the unpatented claims are new claims acquired by Canamex which are part of the Company’s May 28, 2010 option agreement with Canamex and the area of interest. The Bruner presently has a 43-101 compliant resource and Preliminary Economic Assessment.
Exploration History of the Bruner Property
The Bruner mining district is underlain by a sequence of intermediate to felsic Tertiary volcanic rocks, including ash flow tuffs, tuffaceous sediments, and flows. A volcanic center, the origin of major volcanic activity, is thought to underlie the district, with associated silicic domes (a convex landform created by extruding quartz-rich volcanic rocks) and plugs (landform similar to a dome, but smaller) intruding the volcanic section. The exposed stratigraphic section measures over 2,500 feet in thickness. The “Duluth Tuff”, a variably crystal rich ash flow tuff, is the host for gold and silver mineralization. Flow banded silicic volcanics, volcanoclastics (coarse, unsorted sedimentary rock formed from volcanic rocks) and andesite underlie the tuff and flow-banded rhyolite overlies the host unit. Two generations of intrusive rocks have been described within the district. Ore in the Bruner district is hosted by vuggy, fractured, quartz-adularia (potassium-rich alteration mineral) veined and/or stockworked tuff. Mineralization is primarily fault controlled, although some disseminated values do occur.
The original operators at the Bruner Property were varied. Prospecting at the property began in the early 1900’s and underground mining began in 1920. Mining on several of the veins located within the property occurred up to 1949. The patented claims contain the Duluth set of workings on the south end of the claim group comprising over 1,000 feet of workings in 3 shafts and numerous stopes. Past production from the Duluth was reported from 1935 to 1944 but is not able to be verified. The Paymaster mine is located on the north end of the patented claim group. It has a 375-foot shaft with 2,000 feet of workings on three levels. The Paymaster has no recorded production.
The unpatented claims contain the Penelas workings with 1000 feet of shaft and 4,000 feet of crosscuts on nine levels. Past production of gold and silver from the Penelas was recorded from 1935 to 1942 but is not able to be verified. Other historic workings include the Bruner adit with over 1,000 feet of workings and several shafts, and the Derelict mine with a 300 foot shaft and small open pit.
Modern exploration of the Bruner Property began in 1979 and included the following work:
In 1983, Kennecott Minerals Company drilled fifteen RC (reverse circulation drilling) holes on the property.
In 1988-1990, Newmont Exploration Ltd. drilled approximately 10 RC holes; conducted detailed geologic mapping (producing a plan map of the rock types, structure and alteration), geochemical surveys (which is sampling of rocks or soil and determination of the abundances of elements), air and ground magnetic surveys (recording variations in the earth’s magnetic field and plotting same), and ground radiometric surveys (a survey of radioactive materials on the land surface).
In 1990-1995, Miramar Mining Corp. (“Miramar”) drilled 5 RC holes and conducted BLEG (bulk leach extractable gold) sampling and air photo interpretation. BLEG sampling involves a large sample of soil or rock that is leached using cyanide to determine the metallurgy and parameters required to recover the gold and silver content from the sample material. In their 1991 Annual Report, Miramar reported 82% extraction of gold in 56 days from a column test run on unagglomerated -3/8 inch particle size material from the historic resource area, with low cyanide consumption. The head grade was unreported.
In July 2003, members of our Board of Directors and geology team made an onsite inspection of the Bruner Property. From this visit, an exploration plan was determined and a schedule to begin work on the Property was organized to commence in the month of September 2003. The Company completed an exploration program consisting of geologic mapping, surface geochemical sampling, a Global Positioning System (GPS) survey of grid based magnetic survey, drill holes and cultural features, and a CSMT geophysical survey (electrical, magnetic and other means used to detect features, which may be associated with mineral deposits) was also conducted. Such a survey measures the magnetic variations within the underlying rocks.
Since then, a ground magnetics survey and detailed mapping and rock sampling of the western portion of the claim block on the Bruner Property has been completed. The rock sampling is a collection of a series of rock chips over a measured distance, which is then submitted for assays, a chemical analysis to determine the metallic content over the sampled interval. The magnetics indicate the presence of northwesterly and northerly trending faults under the pediment cover that may host gold mineralization. Faults, which are breaks in the rock along which the movement has taken place, are often the sites for the deposition of metallic rich fluids. A pediment cover is a broad, gently sloping surface at the base of a steeper slope. Geologic mapping of rocks exposed in the western portion of our claims shows several small quartz bearing structures trending northwest and dipping steeply to the northeast. These small structures are thought to be related to a much larger vein system, often filled with quartz, and contained within a fault or break in the rock (a fault-hosted vein system) under gravel cover in the broad valley south of the mapping. Approximately one square mile of ground magnetics was completed at Bruner. The survey was conducted on 50 meter spaced lines, running north-south, using a GPS controlled Geometrics magnetometer, which is the geophysical instrument used in collecting magnetic data with an attached GPS that allows the operator to more precisely determine the location of each station where the magnetic signature is taken.
The interpretation shows numerous northwest and north-south trending magnetic lows associated with faults. Magnetic lows are an occurrence that may be indicative of a destruction of magnetic minerals by later hydrothermal (hot water) fluids that have come up along these faults. These hydrothermal fluids may in turn have carried and deposited precious metals such as gold and/or silver. A much more continuous northwest trending feature that has not been drill tested is located to the southeast, under gravel cover (where there is no exposure of rock at the surface). Data were sufficiently encouraging that an expanded CSMT survey was conducted to trace these structures in the third dimension.
In October 2004, the Company received the approval of a Notice of Intent for Exploration Drilling and an environmental bond filed with the Nevada office of the Bureau of Land Management. A total of 18 drill sites were located to target both extensions of the gold intercepts in previous drilling and in geophysical anomalies found by a CSMT survey. With the proper approvals in place, the Company began drilling on the Bruner Property on December 20, 2004. This drilling program was completed in March 2005 at a total cost of approximately $153,800, with a total of 3,200 feet of reverse circulation (RC) drilling in 7 holes. The depths of the holes ranged from 300 to 750 feet. The Company has received assays for all holes and the results were encouraging enough that additional drilling was conducted.
Because of the favorable drilling results from the drilling program which began on December 20, 2004, the Company decided to conduct additional drill testing on the Bruner Property, including both reverse circulation and core drilling. In April 2005, the Company filed an amended drilling plan with the Bureau of Land Management that allowed three fences of drill holes with the fences spaced 400 feet apart along the apparent trend of the mineralization. This program was completed in the fall of 2005 with 11 holes totaling 4,205 feet being drilled.
In 2007 the Board of Directors approved an exploration budget of approximately $120,000 for the Bruner Property. In November 2007, the Company drilled three holes at Bruner to test deeper targets within the gold-bearing tuffaceous host rocks. The holes were drilled using an RC drill rig and totaled 3,240 feet. The holes were spaced roughly 400 feet apart on a line running east-northeast. All holes were angled steeply to the north to cut projected, south-dipping shear zones. Drill hole B-18 and B-19 were drilled to a depth of 1,000 and B-20 was drilled 1,240 feet deep. All three holes contained intermittent gold at various depths. The results show a distinct increase in gold grade from the southwest (B-18) to the northeast (B-20). Only hole B-20 contained significant gold grades over any significant width. Further drilling north and east of B-20 may be warranted to vector in on the strongest part of the gold system. The drill program confirmed that gold mineralization continues at depth and is hosted by tuffaceous rocks.
The compilation of patented claims identified at least four viable drill targets separate from the Company’s original target. These targets include the Duluth, Penelas, Paymaster and Bruno which have seen moderate to intense drill programs in the past due to surface mineralization and alteration consistent with large precious metals systems located in other parts of the Great Basin.
In late 2010, shortly after entering into an option agreement regarding the Bruner Property with Canamex Resources Corp., Canamex drilled 11 RC holes totaling 4,800 feet/1,463 meters.
In October 2011, a two phase gold-silver drilling program totaling approximately 9,150 meters (30,000 feet) in 57 drill holes was initiated. Phase I was designed to consist of 12 holes testing high - grade veins that were mined historically the first half of the 20th century but largely ignored by exploration drilling in the second half of the century. In March 2012, the final geochemical results from this program which consisted of 2,434 meters (7,985 feet) in 13 angled RC drill holes were announced. A total of 2 of the first 3 holes drilled into the Penelas East Vein System intersected gold. Drill hole B-1115 penetrated a vein nearly 400 feet below the surface and 400 feet south of the historic drill intercepts in BRU-085 and BRU-105.
In May 2012, column leach test work was initiated on a bulk sample from underground on the Bruner Property. Approximately 650 kilograms (1500 lbs.) of minus 6-inch material collected from the Upper Adit at the Bruner gold-silver project were delivered to a metallurgical test facility which specializes in cyanidation tests for heap leaching. The final cyanide column leach results showed a +85% gold extraction in 83 days on the sample with +80% extractions in both -3 inch and -3/4 inch crush sizes in 40 days.
In May 2012, Phase II drilling was proposed to test the extensions to the high-grade gold-silver intersected in the Penelas East vein in drill hole B-1115. The drilling was intended to test the strike extension and the dip extension of the intercept in B-1115 between 30-60 meters (100-200 feet) along strike to the north and to the south and 30-60 meters (100- 200 feet) below the elevation of the intercept in B-1115 to evaluate the potential for continuity along strike and increased potential with depth per the epithermal vein model.
The 2012 drilling program concluded with a total of 17 RC holes totaling 13,400 feet/4084 meters and two core holes totaling 1,306 feet/398 meters, all drilled about 1,000 feet/300 meters southeast of the old Penelas mine workings and where significant gold intercepts were encountered in the last hole in the 2011 drilling program. Hole B-1201, the first hole in 2012, intersected 360 feet (110 meters) and the remainder of the 2012 drill holes focused on drilling around this intercept in B-1201. The geology in the vicinity of hole B-1201 is mostly covered by 30-50 feet (10-15 meters) of alluvium, and the geology and geometry of the mineralized zone cannot be gleaned by surface mapping or sampling, requiring close-spaced drilling to ascertain the orientation of the significant gold intercepts encountered in 2012.
In March 2013, a Reverse Circulation ("RC") drill program of 22,000 feet was announced and scheduled to commence at the Bruner Property. The drilling phase will begin on the west side of the northern extension of the former producing July-Duluth mine sites and then move east to the Penelas East discovery area, where drilling in 2012 encountered a mineralized interval of 360 feet. Metallurgical test work was underway on drill samples from the Penelas East discovery deposit area with results to be reported shortly.
The 2013 drill program concluded with a total of 39 RC holes totaling 23,590 feet/7,190 meters and 3 core holes totaling 2,380 feet/725 meters being drilled between January and November. Of the total, seven RC holes were drilled at the north end of the Bruner vein target with disappointing results, although sufficient gold was encountered with increasing depth to indicate further drilling is warranted to chase this vein system to greater depths. Of the 35 holes drilled at the Penelas East discovery area, all but 5 holes intersected significant gold intercepts that help define the gold mineral system there. The 5 holes that failed to intersect significant gold intervals were drilled south of all other holes completed to date, encountered intense clay alteration which is generally indicative of being outside of the precious metal and proximal alteration of silica + adularia, and may be located on the opposite side of a fault that terminates or truncates the gold-silver mineral system at the Penelas East discovery area. The last hole of 2013 was drilled in the historic resource area to test a concept that high-grade gold was ponded beneath prominent silica + adularia spires that were mapped in detail during the summer of 2013.
In April 2014, a 53 hole drill program for both the Historic Resource and Penelas East discovery areas was announced. The program was to consist of approximately 1000 meters (3,280 feet) of core drilling and 9,000 meters (29,500 feet) of reverse circulation (RC) drilling. Core drilling in the Historic Resource area to start with an offset of RC hole B-1340, which tested at 93%-97% gold extraction levels after bottle roll cyanidation tests on hole composites were performed in early 2014. A total of 5 core holes and 24 RC holes are planned to test this high-grade feeder zone. Drilling at the Penelas East discovery area will focus on testing the prominent VLF-EM current density and coincident gold-in-soil anomalies. A total of 24 holes are planned in the Penelas East discovery area, which will expand the total number of holes drilled in this area to 62.
In April 2014, the Company reported the acquisition of an additional 20 acre patented mining claim known as the Elk Lode claim. The Elk Lode claim complements the Company’s existing holdings at the Bruner site.
The 2014 drilling program concluded with a total of 51 RC holes were drilled totaling 24,610 feet/7,501 meters and 13 core holes totaling 7,257feet/2,212 meters.
Ten (10) RC holes totaling 2,870 feet/875 meters were drilled at the Paymaster hill/mine area where previous sampling of old underground workings, currently inaccessible, indicated the presence of high-grade gold associated with the intersection of steeply dipping structures a generally flat lying volcaniclastic sediments immediately overlying a basement of unaltered andesite flows. These holes were very successful and additional drilling at the Paymaster hill/mine target is warranted.
Twelve (12) RC holes totaling 7,785 feet/2,373 meters were drilled to test VLF-EM current density anomalies detected north and northwest of the Penelas East discovery area. Sufficient gold was intersected in these holes to suggest the VLF-EM method may be seeing mineralized structures and thus deserve further drilling to assess this apparent correlation further.
Three (3) RC holes totaling 1,935 feet/590 meters and 2 core holes totaling 1,865 feet/568 meters were drilled at the northern open extension of the Penelas East discovery area to test deep high-grade intercepts encountered there in 2013. All of these holes intersected significant gold intercepts both near the surface and at depth to warrant additional drilling of the open northern extension to the Penelas East discovery area.
The majority of the drilling in 2014 was concentrated in the historic resource area in order to provide sufficient modern geologic and controlled assay data. A total of 27 RC holes totaling 12,456 feet/3,797 meters and 10 core holes totaling 4,956 feet/1,510 meters were completed in the historic resource area. The data from these holes flush out the core mineralized zone of the historic resource area and provide the detailed understanding of the host geology and the distribution of grade to be able to properly model the deposit and the entire assay set.
The table below summarizes Canamex’s exploration drilling at the Bruner Property.
The collar locations of the drilling on the Bruner Property are shown below.
Canamex has informed Patriot (and Patriot has agreed) that Canamex has incurred the expenditures required for it to earn an undivided 70% interest in the Bruner gold project. Patriot and Canamex are negotiating a definitive joint venture agreement that will supersede the 2010 agreement and govern the joint venture going forward.
Although a 43-101 compliant resource estimate has been developed for the Bruner as well as a Preliminary Economic Assessment, to date no mineral reserves have been reported for the Bruner.
Vernal Property
Description and Location of the Vernal Property
The Vernal Property is located approximately 140 miles east-southeast of Reno, Nevada on the west side of the Shoshone Mountains. Access from Fallon, the closest town of any size, is by 50 miles of paved highway and 30 miles of gravel roads. The Company holds the property via 12 unpatented mining claims (approximately 248 acres).
Exploration History of the Vernal Property
Historical work includes numerous short adits constructed on the Vernal Property between 1907 and 1936. There appears to have been little or no mineral production.
The Vernal Property is underlain by a thick sequence of Tertiary age rhyolitic volcanic rocks including tuffs, flows and intrusives. A volcanic center is thought to underlie the district, with an intruding rhyolite plug dome (a domal feature formed by the extrusion of viscous quartz-rich volcanic rocks) thought to be closely related to mineralization encountered by the geologists of Amselco, the U.S. subsidiary of a British company, who explored the Vernal Property back in the 1980’s, and who in 1983 mapped, sampled and drilled the Vernal Property. Amselco has not been involved with the Vernal Property over the last 20 years and is not associated with our option on the Vernal Property or the exploration work being done. A 225 foot wide zone of poorly outcropping quartz stockworks (a multi-directional quartz veinlet system) and larger veining trends exist northeast from the northern margin of the plug. The veining consists of chalcedony containing 1-5% pyrite. Clay alteration of the host volcanics is strong. Northwest trending veins are also present but very poorly exposed. Both directions carry gold values. Scattered vein float is found over the plug. The most significant gold values in rock chips come from veining in tuffaceous rocks north of the nearly east-west contact of the plug. This area has poor exposure, but sampling of old dumps and surface workings show an open-ended gold anomaly that measures 630 feet by 450 feet.
The Vernal Property claims presently do not have any known mineral reserves. The property that is the subject of our mineral claims is undeveloped and does not contain any commercial scale open-pits. Numerous shallow underground excavations occur within the central portion of the property. No reported historic production is noted for the property. There is no mining plant or equipment located on the property that is the subject of the mineral claim. Currently, there is no power supply to the mineral claims. Although drill holes are present within the property boundary, there is no known drilled reserve on our claims.
In July 2003, members of our Board of Directors and geology team made an onsite inspection of the Vernal property. Mapping (the process of laying out a grid on the land for area identification where samples are taken) and sampling (the process of taking small quantities of soil and rock for analysis) have been completed. In March 2005, the Company initiated the process to secure the proper permits for trenching and geochemical sampling from the U.S. Forest Service.
Our exploration of the Vernal Property to date has consisted of geologic mapping, trenching and rock chip geochemical sampling. The Board of Directors approved a budget of approximately $55,000 (including the refundable bond of $900) for the Vernal property. An exploration program was conducted in November, 2008. The program consisted of 200 feet of trenching, sampling and mapping, and opening, mapping and sampling of an underground workings consisting of approximately 275 feet of workings. The Company is currently evaluating the results of the program at the Vernal Property.
Planned Exploration
The Company’s current objectives are to assess the geological merits and if warranted and feasible establish an exploration program to identify the potential for economically viable mineralization. The cost of an exploration plan has not yet been determined therefore estimated exploration expenditures are not available at this time. The Company recognizes that the Vernal Property is an early-stage exploration opportunity and there are currently no proven or probable reserves.
Windy Peak Property
Acquisition of Interest
In May 2015, after a review of historical records and information available regarding a potential mineral property interest in Churchill County, Nevada, the Company acquired the Windy Peak Property, (referred to herein as the “Windy Peak Property,” "Windy Peak” or the “Property”). This early-stage exploration project was secured through the completion of an Assignment and Assumption Agreement. Windy Peak has not been visited by any current officers or directors of the Company.
The Windy Peak Property Location in Nevada
Description and Location of the Windy Peak Property
The Windy Peak Property consists of 79 unpatented mineral claims covering approximately 1,630 acres, 3 miles NNE of the Bell Mountain and 7 miles east of the Fairview mining district in southwest Nevada. Windy Peak is approximately 45 miles southeast of Fallon and 6 miles SSW of Middlegate in sections 4,5,8,9,28,32,33 of T15 &16N R35E, Nevada. The Property is divided into 2 non-contiguous claim blocks with the northern claim block being adjacent to Hill 6483 in the Windy Fault.
Access to the Windy Peak Property is from U.S. Highway 50, thence south via Highway 361 to an unmarked dirt road that heads west along the south side of an unnamed wash referred to as Windy Wash. The dirt road exits Highway 95 near the border of Sections 27 & 34. The Bell Mountain quadrangle (dated 1972) shows an older dirt road that follows the floor of the wash. About 2 miles along the dirt road, trenching and cutting of trails to access various portions of the Property have extensively disturbed the hill. The dirt road is in good condition, however the steeper trails near Windy Peak will require a 4-wheel-drive for access. There is no plant, equipment, water source nor power currently on site. Power could be provided by portable diesel-powered generators. Non potable water may be source able on site for drilling, mining and milling purposes.
The Property claims are held as unpatented federal land claims administered under the Department of Interior, BLM and Department of Agriculture, Forest Service (“USFS”) under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976. In order to acquire an unpatented mineral claim the land must be open to mineral entry. Federal law specifies that a claim must be located or “staked” and site boundaries be distinctly and clearly marked to be readily identifiable on the ground in addition to filing the appropriate state and or federal documentation such as Location Notice, Claim Map, Notice of Non-liability for Labor and Materials Furnished, Notice of Intent to Hold Mining Claims, Maintenance Fee Payment and fees to secure the claim. The State may also establish additional requirements regarding the manner in which mining claims and sites are located and recorded. An unpatented mining claim on U.S. government lands establishes a claim to the locatable minerals (also referred to as stakeable minerals) on the land and the right of possession solely for mining purposes. No title to the land passes to the claimant. If a proven economic mineral deposit is developed, provisions of federal mining laws permit owners of unpatented mining claims to patent (to obtain title to) the claim. The Property surface estate and mineral rights are federally owned and subject to BLM regulations. None of the Property claims have been legally surveyed. Although our legal access to unpatented Federal claims cannot be denied, staking or operating a mining claim does not provide the claim holder exclusive rights to the surface resources (unless a right was determined under Public Law 84-167), establish residency or block access to other users. Regulations managing the use and occupancy of the public lands for development of locatable mineral deposits by limiting such use or occupancy to that which is reasonably incident is found in 43 CFR 3715. These Regulations apply to public lands administered by the BLM.
The Property claims were located and recorded along with the necessary payments being filed in March 2013. Annual maintenance fees of $155 per claim paid to the BLM and recording fees of approximately $15 per claim must be paid to the respective county on or before September 1 of each year to keep the claims in good standing, provided the filings are kept current these claims can be kept in perpetuity.
Past Exploration in the Windy Peak Area
Fairview District
The Windy Peak area has been considered to be part of, or at least an extension of, the Fairview District, which, is located on Fairview Peak about 6 miles WNW of Hill 6483. Both areas are within the Fairview Peak caldera of Henry but their geochemical differences indicate they are not related.
Windy Peak
The only published information found regarding the Windy Peak area refers to a small leach pad at the Cye Cox prospect at Hill 6483. This exploration was located adjacent to but not on our northern claim block. According to historical reports, an initial 6 claims (Red Star) were staked by Cye Cox of Fallon from 1945 to 1969. Subsequent lessees staked an additional 79 Red Star claims from 1978 to 1979. Cye Cox together with Pete Erb and "Pine Nut" Forbush discovered high-grade gold on the south side of Hill 6483 in the Windy fault in 1970. The presence of old timbers near a mostly-covered hole at the western trench (about mile west of the Windy adit) indicates that they also did some work there. After further examination a plant with a 6-8" grizzly and trommel (21' x 30") was setup and operated.
At least 56 RC holes have been drilled on and around the Windy Peak claims area. The identifiable holes are vertical holes which is interesting because the primary target in the Windy area is bonanza grade veins in steep to vertical structures. In effect, the high-grade structurally hosted gold potential on the property has not been tested by previous drilling programs.
Geology of the Windy Peak Property Area
Review of late Tertiary epithermal gold-silver deposits in the northern Great Basin, revealed that most deposits are spatially and temporally related to two magmatic assemblages: bimodal basalt-rhyolite and western andesite. The Fairview district, including the Bell Mine, is related to a third, minor magmatic assemblage, the late Eocene to early Miocene caldera complexes of the interior andesite-rhyolite assemblage. This assemblage hosts the giant late-Oligocene Round Mountain deposit plus smaller deposits in the Atlanta, Fairview, Tuscarora, and Wonder mining districts. The youngest rocks in the interior andesite-rhyolite assemblage are in the Fairview and Tonopah mining districts. Recent studies have shown that the magmatism associated with the interior andesite rhyolite assemblage had a close spatial and temporal association with crustal extension, and that these magmas may have been formed by partial mixing of mantle-derived basal with crustal melt.
Planned Exploration
The Company’s current objectives are to assess the Windy Peak geological merits to establish an exploration program and identify the potential for economically viable mineralization. The cost of this exploration plan has not yet been determined therefore estimated exploration expenditures are not available at this time. The Company recognizes that Windy Peak is an early-stage exploration opportunity and there are currently no proven or probable reserves.
Item 3.