Item 2. Description of Properties.
We do not lease or own any real property for our corporate offices. We currently maintain our corporate office on a month-to-month basis at 3651 Lindell Road, Suite D Las Vegas, Nevada, 89103. Management believes that our office space is suitable for our current needs.
In the following discussion relating to our interests in real property, there are references to “patented” mining claims and “unpatented” mining claims. A patented mining claim is one for which the U.S. government has passed its title to the claimant, giving that person title to the land as well as the minerals and other resources above and below the surface. The patented claim is then treated like any other private land and is subject to local property taxes. An unpatented mining claim on U.S. government lands establishes a claim to the locatable minerals (also referred to as stakeable minerals) on the land and the right of possession solely for mining purposes. No title to the land passes to the claimant. If a proven economic mineral deposit is developed, provisions of federal mining laws permit owners of unpatented mining claims to patent (to obtain title to) the claim. If one purchases an unpatented mining claim that is later declared invalid by the U.S. government, one could be evicted.
Bruner and Vernal Properties
Map of our Bruner and Vernal properties located in Western Nevada.
Acquisition of Interests
Pursuant to a Property Option Agreement, dated as of July 25, 2003, with MinQuest, Inc., a Nevada corporation (“MinQuest”), we acquired the option to earn a 100% interest in the Bruner and Vernal mineral exploration properties located in Nevada. Together, these two properties originally consisted of 28 unpatented mining claims on a total of 560 acres in the northwest trending Walker Lane located in western Nevada. In September, 2008 the company expanded the Bruner position from 16 unpatented mining claims to 51 unpatented mining claims. This brought the total number acres at Bruner under the Company’s control to 1,020 acres at that time. Any additional claims agreed by the Company to be staked by MinQuest within 2 miles from the existing perimeter of the Property boundaries shall form part of this Property Option Agreement.
In order to earn a 100% interest in these two properties, option payments totaling $92,500 and an additional $500,000 in exploration expenditures were required. All mining interests in the property are subject to MinQuest retaining a 3% royalty of the aggregate proceeds received by us from any smelter or other purchaser of any ores, concentrates, metals or other material of commercial value produced from the property, minus the cost of transportation of the ores, concentrates or metals, including related insurance, and smelting and refining charges, including penalties.
Pursuant to the Property Option Agreement, we have a one-time option to purchase up to 2% of MinQuest’s royalty interest at a rate of $1,000,000 for each 1%. We must exercise our option 90 days following completion of a bankable feasibility study of the Bruner and Vernal properties, which, as it relates to a mineral resource or reserve, is an evaluation of the economics for the extraction (mining), processing and marketing of a defined ore reserve that would justify financing from a banking or financing institution for putting the mine into production.
On July 25, 2003, we paid MinQuest $12,500 with respect to the properties, and we owed an additional $80,000 which was due in four equal annual installments commencing on July 25, 2004. With the approval of MinQuest, we paid the first installment on August 27, 2004 and we paid the second installment on September 20, 2005. On July 25, 2006 and 2007 respectively we made the third and fourth installments of $20,000. The payment made on July 25, 2007 was the final payment due under the property option agreement for the Bruner and Vernal properties. To date we have spent an aggregate of approximately $603,429 on exploration of the two properties which exceeds the $500,000 exploration requirement of the Agreement.
On April 16, 2010, the Company entered into an Assignment Agreement with its wholly owned subsidiary, Provex Resources, Inc., a Nevada corporation (“Provex”), to assign the exclusive option to an undivided right, title and interest in the Bruner Property to Provex. Pursuant to the Agreement, Provex assumed the rights, and agreed to perform all of the duties and obligations, of the Company arising under the Bruner Property Option Agreement.
On May 28, 2010 Provex Resources, Inc. entered into an exclusive right and option agreement with Canamex Silver Corp. (“Canamex”) for Canamex to acquire up to a 75% undivided interest in the original Bruner Property and the Bruner Property Expansion described above (collectively these properties are referred to herein as the “Bruner Properties”). Upon the completion of the terms of the Agreement by Optionee, and upon earning its’ initial interest, the parties have agreed to negotiate a definitive joint venture agreement in good faith which will supersede the current agreement.
Bruner Property Expansion
On April 1, 2009, the Company entered into a Property Option Agreement (the “Agreement”) with American International Ventures Inc. (“AIV”), to acquire the exclusive option to an undivided right, title and interest in 28 patented Federal mining claims and millsites located in Nye County, Nevada ( (referred to herein as the “Bruner Property Expansion”)). Simultaneous with the execution and delivery of the Agreement, the Company paid AIV $30,000. In order to earn its option in the Property, the Company must make annual property option payments each year on April 1 consisting of $35,000 in 2010, $40,000 in 2011, $45,000 in 2012, $50,000 in 2013, $55,000 in 2014, $60,000 in 2015, and $1,185,000 in 2016. Following which the Company shall be deemed to have exercised its option under the Agreement and shall be entitled to an undivided 100% right, title and interest in and to the Bruner Property Expansion subject to a 1.5% Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) royalty payable to AIV and a 2% NSR payable to the former Property owner. The 2% NSR royalty may be purchased by the Company for a total payment of $500,000 and 1% of AIV’s 1.5% NSR royalty can be purchased by the Company for an additional payment of $500,000 at any time up to 30 days after beginning mine construction.
The claims optioned under the agreement with AIV are contiguous with the Company’s existing Bruner property claims and therefore are also subject to the terms and conditions of the original Bruner Property Option Agreement with MinQuest.
On April 16, 2010, the Company entered into an Assignment Agreement with its wholly owned subsidiary, Provex Resources, Inc., a Nevada corporation (“Provex”), to assign the exclusive option to an undivided right, title and interest in the Bruner Property Expansion to Provex. Pursuant to the Agreement, Provex assumed the rights, and agreed to perform all of the duties and obligations, of the Company arising under the Bruner Property Expansion Option Agreement.
On May 28, 2010 Provex Resources, Inc. entered into an exclusive right and option agreement with Canamex Silver Corp. (“Canamex”) for Canamex to acquire up to a 75% undivided interest in the Bruner Properties. Upon the completion of the terms of the Agreement by Optionee, and upon earning its’ initial interest, the parties have agreed to negotiate a definitive joint venture agreement in good faith which will supercede the current agreement.
Bruner Properties
Description and Location of the Bruner Properties
The Bruner Property is located approximately 130 miles east-southeast of Reno, Nevada at the northern end of the Paradise Range. Access from Fallon, the closest town of any size, is by 50 miles of paved highway and 16 miles of gravel roads. We now hold the property via 59 unpatented mining claims (1,020 acres) and 28 patented claims (477.655 acres). Canamex has subsequently added 21 new unpatented claims to the northern end of the Bruner Porperty which are now part of the aforementioned May 28, 2010 option agreement with Canamex and the area of interest.
Exploration History of the Bruner Properties
The original operators at the Bruner Properties were varied. Prospecting at the property began in the early 1900’s and underground mining began in 1920. Mining on several of the veins located within the property occurred up to 1949 producing over 58,500 gold equivalent ounces. The average gold to silver ratio from the Penelas mine was 1:4.5 for recorded production from 1935 to 1942. Modern exploration of the property began in 1979 and included the following work:
o In 1983, Kennecott Minerals Company drilled fifteen RC holes (holes left after the process of reverse circulation drilling) on the property.
o In 1988-1990, Newmont Exploration Ltd. drilled approximately 10 RC holes; conducted detailed geologic mapping (producing a plan map of the rock types, structure and alteration), geochemical surveys (which is sampling of rocks or soil and determination of the absolute abundances of elements), air and ground magnetic surveys (recording variations in the earth’s magnetic field and plotting same), and ground radiometric surveys (a survey of radioactive materials on the land surface).
o In 1990-1995, Miramar Mining Corp. drilled 5 RC holes and conducted BLEG (bulk leach extractable gold) sampling and air photo interpretation. BLEG sampling involves a large sample of soil or rock that is leached using cyanide to determine gold and silver content down to a detection limit of as little as 1.0 part per billion.do occur.
Geology of the Bruner Properties Mineral Claims
The Bruner mining district is underlain by a sequence of intermediate to felsic Tertiary volcanic rocks (which are quartz-rich rocks derived from volcanoes and deposited between two and sixty-five million years ago), including ash flow tuffs, tuffaceous sediments, and flows. A volcanic center, the origin of major volcanic activity, is thought to underlay the district, with associated silicic domes (a convex landform created by extruding quartz-rich volcanic rocks) and plugs (landform similar to a dome, but smaller) intruding the volcanic section. The exposed stratigraphic section measures over 2,500 feet in thickness. The “Duluth Tuff”, a variably crystal rich ash flow tuff, is the host for gold and silver mineralization. Flow banded silicic volcanics, volcanoclastics (coarse, unsorted sedimentary rock formed from volcanic rocks) and andesite underlie the tuff and flow-banded rhyolite overlies the host unit. Two generations of intrusive rocks have been described within the district. Ore in the Bruner district is hosted by vuggy, fractured, quartz-adularia (potassium-rich alternation mineral) veined and/or stockworked tuff. Mineralization is primarily fault controlled, although some disseminated values do occur.
Current State of Exploration
The Bruner claims presently do not have any identified mineral reserves. The company is in the process of compiling all historic drilling and underground sampling results. These results will be evaluated to determine if one or more precious metals resources may exist within the property boundaries. The property that is the subject of our unpatented mineral claims contains the Penelas workings with 1000 feet of shaft and 4,000 feet of crosscuts on nine levels. Past production from the Penelas is recorded at over 26,000 ounces of gold and 120,000 ounces of silver from 1935 to 1942. Other historic workings include the Bruner adit with over 1,000 feet of workings and several shafts, and the Derelict mine with a 300 foot shaft and small open pit.
The 28 patented mining claims contain the Duluth set of workings on the south end of the patented claim group comprising over 1000 feet of workings in 3 shafts and numerous stopes. Past production from the Duluth is reported as $70,000 of gold and silver from 1935 to 1944. This amount is based on a gold price of $35 per ounce and a silver price averaging $0.43 per ounce. The Paymaster mine is located on the north end of the patented claim group. It has a 375-foot shaft with 2,000 feet of workings on three levels. The Paymaster has no recorded production.
There is no mining plant or equipment located within the property boundaries. Currently, there is no power supply to the mineral claims. Our planned program includes compilation of all activities to the present with the goal of producing an outline of mineralized areas, guiding further exploration drilling and potentially defining a resource figure based on historic exploration activities. However, this program is exploratory in nature and no minable reserves may ever be found.
Geological Exploration Program
In July 2003, members of our Board of Directors and geology team made an onsite inspection of the Bruner Properties. From this visit, an exploration plan was determined and a schedule to begin work on the properties was organized to commence in the month of September 2003. The Company completed an exploration program consisting of geologic mapping, surface geochemical sampling, a Global Positioning System (GPS) survey of grid based magnetic survey, drill holes and cultural features, and a CSMT geophysical survey (electrical, magnetic and other means used to detect features, which may be associated with mineral deposits) was also conducted. Such a survey measures the magnetic variations within the underlying rocks.
Since then, a ground magnetics survey and detailed mapping and rock sampling of the western portion of the claim block on the Bruner Properties has been completed. The rock sampling is a collection of a series of small chips over a measured distance, which is then submitted for a chemical analysis, usually to determine the metallic content over the sampled interval. The magnetics indicate the presence of northwesterly and northerly trending faults under the pediment cover that may host gold mineralization. Faults, which are breaks in the rock along which the movement has taken place, are often the sites for the deposition of metallic rich fluids. A pediment cover is a broad, gently sloping surface at the base of a steeper slope. Geologic mapping of rocks exposed in the western portion of our claims shows several small quartz bearing structures trending northwest and dipping steeply to the northeast. These small structures are thought to be related to a much larger vein, often filled with quartz, and contained within a fault or break in the rock (a fault-hosted vein system) under gravel cover in the broad valley south of the mapping. Approximately 1 square mile of ground magnetics was completed at Bruner. The survey was done on 50 meter spaced lines, run north-south using a GPS controlled Geometrics magnetometer, which is the geophysical instrument used in collecting magnetic data with an attached GPS that allows the operator to more precisely determine the location of each station where the magnetic signature is taken.
The interpretation shows numerous northwest and north-south trending magnetic lows associated with faults. Magnetic lows are an occurrence that may be indicative of a destruction of magnetic minerals by later hydrothermal (hot water) fluids that have come up along these faults. These hydrothermal fluids may in turn have carried and deposited precious metals such as gold and/or silver. A much more continuous northwest trending feature that has not been drill tested is located to the southeast, under gravel cover (where there is no exposure of rock at the surface). Data were sufficiently encouraging that an expanded CSMT survey was conducted to trace these structures in the third dimension.
In addition to our drilling programs noted below, our exploration program to date at Bruner has included:
·
geologic mapping (producing a plan map of the rock types, structure and alteration),
·
rock chip geochemical sampling (sample of soil, rock, silt, water or vegetation analyzed to detect the presence of valuable metals or other metals which may accompany them (e.g., Arsenic may indicate the presence of gold),
·
a ground magnetic survey, and
·
a Controlled Source Magneto Telluric (CSMT) survey which recorded variations in a generated electrical field using sophisticated survey methods.
·
In October 2004, we received the approval of a Notice of Intent for Exploration Drilling, and an environmental bond filed with the Nevada office of the Bureau of Land Management. A total of 18 drill sites were located to target both extensions of the gold intercepts in previous drilling and in geophysical anomalies found by a CSMT survey. A CSMT survey is an electromagnetic method used to map the variation of the Earth’s resistance to conduct electricity by measuring naturally occurring electric and magnetic fields at the Earth’s surface. With the proper approvals in place, we began drilling on the Bruner Properties on December 20, 2004. This drilling program was completed in March 2005 at a total cost of approximately $153,800, with a total of 3,200 feet of reverse circulation (RC) drilling in 7 holes. The depths of the holes ranged from 300 to 750 feet. We have received assays for all holes and the results were encouraging enough that additional drilling was conducted.
Because of the favorable drilling results from the drilling program we began on December 20, 2004, we decided to conduct additional drill testing on the Bruner Properties, including both reverse circulation and core drilling. In April 2005, we filed an amended drilling plan with the Bureau of Land Management that allowed three fences of drill holes with the fences spaced 400 feet apart along the apparent trend of the mineralization. This program was completed in the fall of 2005 with 11 holes totaling 4,205 feet being drilled.
The Board of Directors approved a 2007 exploration budget of approximately $120,000 for the Bruner Properties. In November 2007, the Company drilled three holes at Bruner to test deeper targets within the gold-bearing tuffaceous host rocks. The holes were drilled using an RC drill rig and totaled 3,240 feet. The holes were spaced roughly 400 feet apart on a line running east-northeast. All holes were angled steeply to the north to cut projected, south-dipping shear zones. Drill hole B-18 and B-19 were drilled to a depth of 1,000 and B-20 was drilled 1,240 feet deep. All three holes contained intermittent gold at various depths.
The results show a distinct increase in gold grade from the southwest (B-18) to the northeast (B-20). Only hole B-20 contained significant grade gold over any significant width. Further drilling north and east of B-20 may be warranted to vector in on the strongest part of the gold system. The drill program confirmed that gold mineralization continues at depth and is hosted by tuffaceous rocks.
The Company recently expanded the Bruner Properties by adding to its unpatented claim position and acquiring a lease/option on 28 patented claims within the project area. The recent acquisition of the entire district has required a thorough compilation of all available data for the project area. This compilation has identified at least four viable drill targets separate from the company’s original target. These targets include the Duluth, Penelas, Paymaster and Bruno targets. These targets have seen moderate to intense drill programs in the past due to surface mineralization and alteration consistent with large precious metals systems located in other parts of the Great Basin. However, no recent resource or reserve estimates have been conducted by the Company.
Vernal Project
Description and Location of the Vernal Property
The Vernal Property is located approximately 140 miles east-southeast of Reno, Nevada on the west side of the Shoshone Mountains. Access from Fallon, the closest town of any size, is by 50 miles of paved highway and 30 miles of gravel roads. We hold the property via 12 unpatented mining claims (240 acres).
Exploration History of the Vernal Property
Historical work includes numerous short adits constructed on the Vernal Property between 1907 and 1936. There appears to have been little or no mineral production.
Geology of the Vernal Mineral Claims
The Vernal Property is underlain by a thick sequence of Tertiary age rhyolitic volcanic rocks including tuffs, flows and intrusives. A volcanic center is thought to underlie the district, with an intruding rhyolite plug dome (a domal feature formed by the extrusion of viscous quartz-rich volcanic rocks) thought to be closely related to mineralization encountered by the geologists of Amselco, the U.S. subsidiary of a British company, who explored the Vernal Property back in the 1980’s, and who in 1983 mapped, sampled and drilled the Vernal Property. Amelsco has not been involved with the Vernal Property over the last 20 years and is not associated with our option on the Vernal Property or the exploration work we are doing there. A 225 foot wide zone of poorly outcropping quartz stockworks (a multi-directional quartz veinlet system) and larger veining trends exists northeast from the northern margin of the plug. The veining consists of chalcedony containing 1-5% pyrite. Clay alteration of the host volcanics is strong. Northwest trending veins are also present, but very poorly exposed. Both directions carry gold values. Scattered vein float is found over the plug. The most significant gold values in rock chips come from veining in tuffaceous rocks north of the nearly east-west contact of the plug. This area has poor exposure, but sampling of old dumps and pits show an open-ended gold anomaly that measures 630 feet by 450 feet.
Current State of Exploration
The Vernal claims presently do not have any mineral reserves. The property that is the subject of our mineral claims is undeveloped and does not contain any open-pits. Numerous shallow underground excavations occur within the central portion of the property. No reported historic production is noted for the property. There is no mining plant or equipment located on the property that is the subject of the mineral claim. Currently, there is no power supply to the mineral claims. Our planned exploration program is exploratory in nature and no mineral reserves may ever be found. Although drill holes are present within the property boundary, there is no drilled resource on our claims.
Geological Exploration Program
In July 2003, members of our Board of Directors and geology team made an onsite inspection of Vernal. At the Vernal property, mapping (the process of laying out a grid on the land for area identification where samples are taken) and sampling (the process of taking small quantities of soil and rock for analysis) have been completed. In March 2005, we initiated the process to secure the proper permits for trenching and geochemical sampling from the U.S. Forest Service.
Our exploration of the Vernal property to date has consisted of geologic mapping, trenching and rock chip geochemical sampling. The Board of Directors approved a budget of approximately $55,000 (including the refundable bond of $900) for the Vernal property. An exploration program was conducted in November, 2008. The program consisted of 200 feet of trenching, sampling and mapping, and opening, mapping and sampling of an underground workings consisting of approximately 275 feet of workings. The Company is currently evaluating the results of the program at the Vernal property.
On April 16, 2010 the Company entered into an Assignment Agreement with it’s wholly owned subsidiary, Provex Resources, Inc.(“Provex”) to assign the exclusive option of an undivided right, title and interest in the Vernal Property to Provex. Pursuant to the Agreement, Provex assumed the rights amd agreed to perform all of the duties and obligations of the Company arising under the Vernal Property Option Agreement.
Moss Property
Moss Property
The Moss Property consists of 104 unpatented claims and 15 patented claims located in the Oatman Mining District of Mohave County, Arizona. The Company acquired these claims in a series of transactions during fiscal 2004 and 2005.
Acquisition of Interests
Gintoff Claim
On November 14, 2003 the Company entered into a letter of intent to acquire a single patented claim from Gregory Gintoff. The total purchase price of $50,000 was made in two installments of $10,000 in December 2003 and $40,000 in February 2004.
MinQuest Claims
We hold the MinQuest claims via 104 unpatented mining claims that were acquired from MinQuest. On March 4, 2004, we signed the Letter Agreement (the “Agreement”) that earned us a 100 percent interest in these claims by paying MinQuest a one-time lease fee of $50,000. The fee of $50,000 was paid on July 7, 2004. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement, MinQuest will retain a 3% NSR on any and all production derived from the unpatented mining claims listed under the Agreement and on public lands within 1 mile of MinQuest, Inc’s outside perimeter of the present claim boundary; a 1.0% NSR on patented claims with no other royalty within the property; and a 0.5% overriding NSR on all production within the property derived from patented claims with other royalty interests.
Williams Property
The property is comprised of six patented claims, which as a group, we call the Williams Property. These claims were held collectively by as many as 23 owners within an extended family who were represented by Barbara Williams, a realtor, and a member of this extended family, who put together the letter of intent and arranged for the signing of the agreement by the numerous owners. None of these owners, including Barbara Williams, has or has had any relationship or affiliation with us prior to the agreement for the Williams Property.
In October 2003, our former director Robert Sibthorpe (who is a geologist by training) had evaluated the proposal for the purchase of the Williams Property. His recommendation was to visit the site, and if the visual inspection supported the information presented in the proposal, then an offer to purchase should be drawn up. In November 2003 we executed a letter of intent to purchase a 100% interest in Williams Property owned by the extended family. This property is unrelated to and separate from the MinQuest Claims. The sellers delivered to us all information in their possession regarding the Williams Property. During the six-month period after the signing of the letter of intent we had the right to conduct our due diligence on the Williams Property and if we decided not to proceed we had to give the sellers and escrow agent notice no less than 10 days prior to the six-month anniversary of our intention not to close. During this period we could not perform mining or remove any ore from the property. We were responsible for all costs and expenses associated with the purchase of the Williams Property, including escrow fees, cost of feasibility study, charges resulting from any tests, environmental assessments reports or surveys, and any exploration activity costs. Once we had concluded our analysis and had determined that it is feasible to close on the purchase of the Williams Property, doing so would give us full rights to begin mining operations.
At the recommendation of Mr. Sibthorpe, in January, 2004, Mr. Robert Coale (P.E.), a Directors and our then-current President, visited the site to see the overall geological setting and occurrence of mineralization and evaluated the drilling program proposed by MinQuest, the company that we would contract to co-ordinate any work programs undertaken. At that time, the metallurgical data and reports that had been collected from the sellers were reviewed. Mr. Coale’s analysis revealed that reagent (liquid chemicals used for leaching) consumptions are acceptable and deleterious compounds (minerals present in the ore that would be difficult to work with) were not apparent. He recommended bulk sampling at a selected location in the future once the definition of the ore body was further advanced through drilling. On January 31, 2004 Robert Sibthorpe wrote a report with a summary of the property, a review of the draft budget supplied by Richard Kern, our work program contractor, and a layout of the drilling program planned for the property.
The drilling was conducted throughout the spring and early summer of 2004, and in June 2004, Mr. Sibthorpe wrote a report incorporating the results of the drill program which encouraged us to pursue the project. Also in June 2004, Mr. Kern sent a memo to the Company regarding the potential at the Williams property. Mr. Kern’s recommendation was that we should proceed with the purchase of the Williams Property.
On February 19, 2004, we executed a formal agreement to purchase the Williams Property for $350,000. On February 27, 2004 we deposited $25,000 with the title company, which was acting as escrow agent, and three months after signing, on June 14, 2004, we deposited an additional $25,000. When the title company, acting as escrow agent, received the signature pages from the various sellers, the initial $25,000 deposit was to be delivered to the sellers. On the three-month anniversary after we signed the definitive agreement, the second $25,000 was to be delivered to the sellers. By mid-July, 2004, the escrow agent had received 19 of the 23 signatures, which under Arizona law was enough to complete the transaction, and on July 24, 2004, the first and second deposits of $25,000 each were released to the sellers. On or before the 6-month anniversary after we signed the definitive agreement, the balance of $300,000 was due to the sellers. As a result of our due diligence, we decided to complete the purchase of the Williams Property. On August 27, 2004 we paid the final $300,000 to the escrow agent for the closing of the sale. On November 11, 2004, the escrow agent released the $300,000 to the sellers for the closing of the sale, and, as a result, we now own 100% interest in the Williams Property.
Greenwood Claim
On January 18, 2005 the Company completed the acquisition of a single patented claim from an individual for $150,000.
Martinez Claims
The Company acquired five patented claims from Ramon and Edna Martinez for a total of $150,000. The Company made one payment of $75,000 on November 8, 2004 and made the final payment of $75,000 on February 14, 2005.
Ruth and Rattan Claims
On January 18, 2005, the Company made a single payment of $25,000 to acquire two patented claims known as the Ruth and Rattan claims.
Exploration and Option Agreement
On February 28, 2011, the Company entered into an Exploration and Option Agreement with Idaho State Gold Company, LLC, (“ISGC”) whereby the Company will grant the option and right to earn a vested seventy percent (70%) interest in the property and the right and option to form a joint venture for the management and ownership of the property called the Moss Mine Project, Mohave County, Arizona.
In March, 2011, ISGC transferred its rights to the Exploration and Option Agreement dated February 28, 2011, to Northern Vertex Capital Inc. (“Northern Vertex”) pursuant to an Exploration and Option to Enter Joint Venture Agreement whereby Northern Vertex must spend an aggregate total of US$8 million on exploration and related expenditures over the next five years and subsequent to exercise of the earn-in, Northern Vertex and Patriot Gold will form a 70/30 joint venture.
Description and Location of the Moss Property
The Moss Property is located in Mohave County, Arizona in the historic Oatman District, and is located some 5 miles northwest of the town of Oatman, with Kingman, Arizona to the east, Laughlin, Nevada to the west and Las Vegas, Nevada to the north. Access is via paved and gravel roads from Bullhead City.
Exploration History of the Moss Property
Discovered in 1864, the Moss Mine was the first gold discovery made in the Oatman District. Historical records show that the Oatman District produced up to two million ounces of gold mostly from underground mines. The Moss Mine reportedly produced high-grade gold values of $114,000 from two tons of ore at $20 per ounce of gold. A reported $240,000 of gold and silver were produced from the Moss property before 1880. The mine was worked intermittently through the 1930’s but produced only minor amounts of gold after the initial bonanza grades. The mine lay idle until the early 1980’s when a number of mining companies explored the district. These companies included Billiton Minerals, Magma Copper, Golconda Resources and Addwest Minerals.
Work already completed on the Williams portion of the Moss Property includes a pre-feasibility study as well as 36,000 feet of primarily reverse circulation drilling which was conducted over twenty years ago. Reverse circulation drilling is a less expensive form of drilling that does not allow for the recovery of a tube or core of rock, in which the material is brought up from depth as a series of small chips of rock that are then bagged and sent in for analysis. Though this is a quicker and cheaper method of drilling, reverse circulation drilling does not give as much information about the underlying rocks.
Geology of the Moss Property
The project area is underlain by Tertiary quartz monzonite (a coarsely crystalline rock composed primarily of the minerals quartz, plagioclase and orthoclase) intruding tertiary volcanics. Precambrian basement rocks underlie the volcanics. The veins consist of quartz-calcite and lesser adularia. The principal vein is up to 45 feet thick and can be followed on surface for over 5,000 feet. The hanging wall commonly has several tens of feet of stockwork veining. Gold values are somewhat erratic, but appear to be highest in the thicker and deeper parts of the vein explored to date.
Current State of Exploration
The Moss Property has undergone an evaluation for potential mineral reserves. The evaluation was detailed in a report by Paul D. Noland, a registered professional geologist. The report concluded that the Moss Property hosts a drill-indicated gold/silver estimate, and requires systematic in-fill and down-dip drilling to be placed into a final reserve category. No economic or mining feasibility parameters were applied. The estimates are further defined in under the section “Geologic Exploration Program”. The property that is the subject to our mineral claims contains several shafts. At least one shaft is reported to be 230 feet deep with a single level at 225 feet deep trending along the strike of the vein. Several adits of variable length were driven to intersect the vein along its strike. A reported past production of $240,000 at a $20 gold price occurred from a high-grade zone within the Moss property.
Numerous drill holes from past drilling endeavors combined with sampling of underground workings within the patented mining claims have culminated in a pre-feasibility study based on drill results from pre-1992 exploration. The Company is contemplating further updating the historic pre-feasibility report with additions from the recent evaluation report and ongoing metallurgical testing to determine the existence of mineral reserves. There is no mining plant or equipment located on the property that is the subject of the mineral claims. Currently, there is no power supply to the mineral claims. Our planned exploration program is exploratory in nature and no mineral reserves may ever be found.
Geological Exploration Program
Our exploration of the Moss Property has consisted of geologic mapping, vein geochemical sampling and drill testing of the identified veins. The Moss Property contains the site of the former Moss Mine. The most significant historic mining at Moss Mine occurred on narrow veins that trend sub-parallel to the Moss Mine vein and dip steeply northerly. These veins should intersect the Moss Mine vein at depth.
Phase 1 drilling has been completed at the Moss Property. A total of 36 holes were drilled totaling 8,807 feet. Thirty holes were drilled on the Gintoff Claim on the Moss Property, and six holes were drilled on one of the adjacent parcels of land. The easternmost section of the Property, which was mostly untested by drilling, was drilled with thirty reverse circulation holes. This allowed accurate cross-sections to be made for this area. The coverage on this section is generally two or three holes on 100 foot sections testing grades and widths from 50-250 feet down dip. In the western area, limited confirmation drilling was carried out and the results obtained were generally in line with the values obtained by previous operators. Geological information obtained may now provide a structural explanation for the lack of success obtained here to date by previous operators.
A study of all drilling results at the Moss Property indicates a tendency for total gold content to increase with intercept depth. Roughly 60% of the deeper holes have better intercepts than shallow holes. An example from our drilling tests the vein over a vertical extent of 300 feet. In this example the gold content nearly doubles between AR-5 and AR-23.
An expanded program of drilling began in April 2005, and was expected to be completed by May 2006. Approximately 12,000 feet of reverse circulation (RC) drilling was planned to be done to test for possible high-grade (0.30 ounces per ton or above) down-dip extensions of the Moss vein. We planned to drill 10 to 15 holes. The depths of these holes were to have ranged from 500 to 1,300 feet. The program budget for this program was $643,700.
The first portion of this expanded drilling program was expected to be completed by the fall of 2005. However, after eight holes were attempted, drilling was halted because of difficulty in drilling through the granite, because the drilling rig that we contracted to use was too light to penetrate the rock. We had sought to contract a heavier rig to continue the program, which we had expected to happen by December 2005. The remainder of the program was completed when the Company completed 6 core holes from November 2006 to February 2007 for a total amount drilled of 3,917 feet. The exploration program failed to find higher grades but it did show that the vein system continues to at least 800 feet below the surface and appears to be thickening.
In the spring of 2008, the Company submitted core samples to a laboratory where leach testing was conducted. Leaching was conducted in both bench scale (Bottle rolls) and in columns using crushed ore as the feed sample. Three column leach tests at 3 different crush sizes were completed on the Moss drilling samples. They were leached for 120 days. The fine crush of ¼ inch had 66% of the gold and 42% of the silver recovered in 120 days. The recovery curve is still not flat at the end of 120 days indicating additional gold/silver could be recovered. The recoveries are already near the 70% gold and 50% silver that is average for the industry. The 1 inch crush column recovered 39% of the gold and 14% of the silver after 120 days, but the leach curve again indicates no significant decrease in percent recovery by month indicating that greater recoveries may be obtained over longer periods of time.
Using the column leach data obtained from the testing program completed in April 2008 as well as additional information, the Company may engage an outside firm to conduct a preliminary economic analysis that will evaluate the overall value of the property considering metallurgical recovery, volume and gold grade of mineralized rock, capital and operating costs, and other factors. This information will be used to define additional work needed to enhance the value of the property.
In May 2009 the Board of Directors approved a $200,000 exploration budget for the Moss Property. A program of six or seven core holes was planned to test the down-dip extension of the Moss vein system. Total drilling footage was estimated at 3,000 feet. The drilling tested approximately 2,000 feet of strike length of the vein. The goal of this program was to further define the trend and depth of mineralization as well as provide additional metallurgical material for column tests. The column tests will be conducted for a longer period to determine potential recoveries from various size fractions.
In January, 2010, Patriot Gold engaged Mr. Paul D. Noland, a registered professional geologist to conduct an independent resource study. The report concluded that the Moss Property hosts a drill indicated gold-silver estimate. This estimate was determined using the assumption that the deposit will be an open pit, bulk minable, heap leach mine. To keep mining and grade control cost minimal, sub-cut off grade material within the boundary of the resource was allowed to dilute the final grade.
These resource numbers are drill-indicated, and require systematic in-fill and down-dip drilling to be placed into a final reserve category. No economic or mining feasibility parameters were applied to this resource category. However, a cursory examination of several sections in the heart of the resource area suggests that the entire resource (Main Zone and Hanging wall Zone) may be exploited by an open pit with a stripping ratio of between 3:1 and 4:1, and average pit wall slope of 45 degrees.
The likelihood of finding additional bulk minable ore on the property is considered very good. Patriot Gold geologists have suggested the likelihood of main zone mineralization continuing at depth in previous reports. The main body of mineralization appears to widen to the west along strike, but the grade decreases. However, with the lower grades needed for an open pit, heap leachable deposit, this material is now part of the resource. This means the deposit is open-ended to the west. Much of the Main Zone remains untested down dip. Continued drill evaluation of down-dip and strike extensions is recommended.
Claims acquired west and north of the original Patriot Gold property in 2009 need detailed evaluation. The claims were acquired after discovery of historic drilling in the area containing significant gold/silver values. The claims need geologic mapping and sampling before any drill targeting can be done. Additional metallurgical testing to determine optimum recovery rates and leaching timesfor various size fractions using long term column leaching is needed. This work, along with fill-in drilling and west extension drilling will make Moss resource ready for a final feasibility study, permitting and mining.
In March 2010, Patriot Gold engaged an outside firm to initiate a series of metallurgical tests to focus on the amenability of the Moss deposit to heap leaching gold/silver recovery. Core from Moss will be tested in four column leach tests with crush sizes up to 2 inches. The crushed ore will be leached in 5 feet high columns for a minimum of 200 days. The tests are expected to determine maximum obtainable gold and silver recoveries using leaching as well as the leach times needed for maximum recovery.
In March of 2011, Patriot entered an agreement with Northern Vertex providing them with the right to earn an undivided 70% interest in the Moss property, subject to the terms of the Exploration and Option Agreement which are summarized as follows:
Patriot was paid US$500,000 upon execution of the agreement. Northern Vertex must spend an aggregate total of US$8 million on exploration and related expenditures over the next five years. Subsequent to exercise of the earn-in, Northern Vertex and Patriot will form a 70/30 joint venture. Financing of future work on the property will be on a proportional basis under the direction of a management committee with voting rights proportional to ownership percentage. Either party may be diluted on the basis of a standard formula if they do not contribute to the planned programs. If either party is diluted below 10 percent, their interest will convert to a three percent NSR (net smelter return) royalty. An existing 3-3.5 percent NSR exists on the Moss Mine property.
Beginning shortly after the agreement, Northern Vertex mobilized drilling equipment and personnel to the site to take additional core and reverse circulation samples. The purpose of this drilling campaign was to correlate and corroborate the results of previous work and to provide step-out drilling to further define the limits of the deposit.
Northern Vertex advanced a total of drill 28 holes through July 2011. The results of this drilling campaign demonstrate that the thickness and grade of the mineralized zone are compatible with and build upon historical drill results. Northern Vertex chief geologist, an NI 43-101 certified geologist, stated, “the stockwork system is robust and the distribution of gold is proving to be consistent both along and across the 5,000 foot strike length evaluated.” He further stated, “the consistency of the results suggests that mineralization is both widespread and dependable.”
Drilling highlights from the most recent drill holes are presented below.
* AuEq (gpt) = Au (gpt) + 1/40th Ag (gpt). gpt = grams / metric tonne. Please visit www.northernvertex.com/extras/drillresults.pdf for complete drill results and estimates results.
Northern Vertex plans additional drilling in 2011 to further delineate the mineralized zone with the ultimate goal of fast tracking the deposit into production. To further this end, Northern Vertex has also initiated parallel studies to define the infrastructure and permitting requirements for the project and has planned to perform additional metallurgical studies.
Margarita Property
Acquisition of Interest
On January 29, 2008, the Company entered into an Assignment and Assumption Agreement (the “Agreement”) with American Goldrush Corp. (“Goldrush”) whereby Goldrush assigned all of its rights and obligations under the Margarita Property Option Agreement to the Company. Pursuant to the Agreement, the Company assumed the rights, and agreed to perform all of the duties and obligations, of Goldrush arising under the Margarita Property Option Agreement. Simultaneous with the execution and delivery of the Agreement, the Company paid Goldrush $200,000 which amount represents the full payment and satisfaction for the assignment to the Company by Goldrush.
On July 25, 2008, subsequent to the completion of a drill program on the Margarita Property, the Company terminated its option under the property option agreement and does not currently have any interest in the Margarita Property. In exchange for its release from its obligations under the Margarita Property Agreement, the Company agreed to pay the 2008 annual claim filings fees on the property of $8,268. Under the release agreement, the Company is not required to make the $100,000 payment due May 31, 2008.
Whiskey Property
Acquisition of Interest
On March 15, 2008, the Company executed a property option agreement with MinQuest granting the Company the right to acquire 100% of the mining interests in the Whiskey Property (“Whiskey”) then controlled by MinQuest.
The Company paid MinQuest $50,000 upon execution of the agreement. MinQuest retained a 3% royalty of the aggregate proceeds received by the Company from any smelter or other purchaser of any ores, concentrates, metals or other material of commercial value produced from the property, minus the cost of transportation of the ores, concentrates or metals, including related insurance, and smelting and refining charges, including penalties.
On April 16, 2010, the Company entered into an Assignment Agreement with its wholly owned subsidiary, Provex Resources, Inc., a Nevada corporation (“Provex”), to assign the exclusive option to an undivided right, title and interest in the Whiskey Property to Provex. Pursuant to the Agreement, Provex assumed the rights, and agreed to perform all of the duties and obligations, of the Company arising under the Whiskey Property Option Agreement.
On December 21, 2010, the Company and its’ subsidiary chose to terminate the Whiskey Property Option Agreement by giving MinQuest written notice to terminate. The Company and its’ subsidiary do not maintain any further rights, interests, or obligations in the property.
NK Property
Acquisition of Interest
On March 15, 2008, the Company executed a property option agreement with MinQuest granting the Company the right to acquire 100% of the mining interests in the NK Property (“NK”) then controlled by MinQuest. On July 25, 2008 the NK Property Option Agreement was amended whereby the annual minimum work expenditures were lowered to match those of the Weepah Agreement as the two properties are at a similar stage of exploration.
Upon execution of the Agreement, the Company paid MinQuest $20,000 in relation to the execution of the agreement. Since the payment obligations are non-refundable, if any payments under the Agreement are not made, the Company will lose any previous payments made and all its rights to the respective property. If all said payments under the Agreement are made, then the Company will acquire all mining interests in the property. If the Company fails to make any payment when due, the Agreement gives the Company a 60-day grace period to pay the amount of the deficiency. MinQuest retained a 3% royalty of the aggregate proceeds received by the Company from any smelter or other purchaser of any ores, concentrates, metals or other material of commercial value produced from the property, minus the cost of transportation of the ores, concentrates or metals, including related insurance, and smelting and refining charges, including penalties.
On April 16, 2010, the Company entered into an Assignment Agreement with its wholly owned subsidiary, Provex Resources, Inc., a Nevada corporation (“Provex”), to assign the exclusive option to an undivided right, title and interest in the NK Property to Provex.
Pursuant to the Assignment Agreement, Provex assumed the rights, and agreed to perform all of the duties and obligations, of the Company arising under the NK Property Option Agreement. Included in the assignment were, without limitation, all sums incurred by Patriot Gold in connection with the NK property, specifically; (i) the $17,452 of exploration expenditures incurred by Patriot Gold prior to the Assignment Agreement; and (ii) the $40,000 paid to Minquest Inc. as property payments under the Property Agreement.
On December 21, 2010, the Company and its’ subsidiary chose to terminate the NK Property Option Agreement by giving MinQuest written notice to terminate. The Company and its’ subsidiary do not maintain any further rights, interests, or obligations in the property.
Weepah Property
Acquisition of Interest
On March 15, 2008, the Company executed a property option agreement with MinQuest granting the Company the right to acquire 100% of the mining interests in the Weepah Property (“Weepah”) controlled by MinQuest. Upon execution of the Agreement, the Company paid MinQuest $20,000 in relation to the execution of the agreement. Since the payment obligations are non-refundable, if any payments under the Agreement are not made, the Company will lose any previous payments made and all its rights to the respective property. If all said payments under the Agreement are made, then the Company would acquire all mining interests in the property. If the Company failed to make any payment when due, the Agreement gives the Company a 60-day grace period to pay the amount of the deficiency. MinQuest retained a 3% royalty of the aggregate proceeds received by the Company from any smelter or other purchaser of any ores, concentrates, metals or other material of commercial value produced from the property, minus the cost of transportation of the ores, concentrates or metals, including related insurance, and smelting and refining charges, including penalties.
On April 16, 2010, the Company entered into an Assignment Agreement with its wholly owned subsidiary, Provex Resources, Inc., a Nevada corporation (“Provex”), to assign the exclusive option to an undivided right, title and interest in the Weepah Property to Provex. Pursuant to the Assignment Agreement, Provex assumed the rights, and agreed to perform all of the duties and obligations, of the Company arising under the Weepah Property Option Agreement. Included in the assignment were, without limitation, all sums incurred by Patriot Gold in connection with the Weepah property, specifically; (i) the $6,823 of exploration expenditures incurred by Patriot Gold prior to the Assignment Agreement; and (ii) the $40,000 paid to Minquest Inc. as property payments under the Property Agreement.
On December 21, 2010, the Company and its’ subsidiary chose to terminate the Weepah Property Option Agreement by giving MinQuest written notice to terminate. The Company and its’ subsidiary do not maintain any further rights, interests, or obligations in the property.
Imperial Property
Acquisition of Interest
On May 30, 2008, the Company entered into an Assignment and Assumption Agreement (the “Agreement”) with American Goldfields Inc., a Nevada corporation (“Goldfields”), to acquire the exclusive option to an undivided right, title and interest in 22 unpatented Federal mining claims located in Esmeralda County, Nevada, subject to a 3% NSR royalty payable to MinQuest. Goldfields had originally acquired its exclusive option on the Property on June 30, 2004, when it entered into a Property Option Agreement (the “Property Agreement”) with MinQuest, the owner of the Imperial Property.
Pursuant to the Agreement, the Company assumed the rights, and agreed to perform all of the duties and obligations, of Goldfields arising under the Property Agreement. Simultaneous with the execution and delivery of the Agreement, the Company paid Goldfields $250,000, which amount represents the full payment and satisfaction for the assignment by Goldfields to the Company of the Property Agreement and all rights and obligations with respect thereto. Included in the assignment were, without limitation, all sums incurred by Goldfields in connection with the Property, specifically (i) the refunding of the reclamation bond previously paid by Goldfields to the Bureau of Land Management in Nevada in the amount of $13,255; (ii) the approximately $277,000 of expenditures incurred by Goldfields prior to the Agreement; and (iii) the $120,000 paid to MinQuest Inc. as option payments under the Property Agreement.
On April 16, 2010, the Company entered into an Assignment Agreement with its wholly owned subsidiary, Provex Resources, Inc., a Nevada corporation (“Provex”), to assign the exclusive option to an undivided right, title and interest in the Imperial Property to Provex.
Pursuant to the Agreement, Provex assumed the rights, and agreed to perform all of the duties and obligations, of the Company arising under the Imperial Property Option Agreement. Included in the assignment were, without limitation, all sums incurred by Patriot Gold in connection with the Imperial property, specifically; (i) the $13,769 of exploration expenditures incurred by Patriot Gold prior to the Assignment Agreement; amd (ii) the final $20,000 property payment paid to MinQuest Inc. under the Property Agreement.
As of April 16, 2010, Provex had incurred approximately $5,281 on exploration expenditures of the property leaving a shortfall of $209,287. Provex has incurred an additional $5,708 on exploration expenditures as of December 21, 2010. Provex currently has a shortfall in exploration expenditures of approximately $203,579. Provex is at risk of losing its interest in the property by not making the indicated property payments and incurring the exploration expenditures, when demanded.
On December 21, 2010, the Company and its’ subsidiary chose to terminate the Imperial Property Option Agreement by giving MinQuest Inc. written notice to terminate. The Company and its’ subsidiary do not maintain any further rights, interests, or obligations in the property.
Item 3.