Item 2. Description of Properties.
We do not lease or own any real property for our corporate offices. We currently maintain our corporate office on a month-to-month basis at 3651 Lindell Road, Suite D165, Las Vegas, Nevada 89103. Management believes that our office space is suitable for our current needs.
Our property holdings as of May 31, 2015 consist of:
· Bruner, Bruner Expansion and Vernal Properties
· Moss Property
· Windy Peak Property
Bruner, Bruner Expansion and Vernal Properties
Map showing the location of our Bruner and Vernal properties located in Central Western Nevada.
Acquisition of Interests - Bruner, Bruner Expansion and Vernal Properties
Pursuant to a Property Option Agreement (the “BV Agreement”), dated as of July 25, 2003, with MinQuest, Inc., a Nevada corporation (“MinQuest”), we acquired the option to earn a 100% interest in the Bruner and Vernal mineral exploration properties located in Nevada. Together, these two properties originally consisted of 28 unpatented mining claims on a total of 560 acres in the northwest trending Walker Lane located in western central Nevada. The Bruner position was subsequently expanded from 16 unpatented mining claims to 80 unpatented mining claims bringing the total at Bruner to approximately 1,653 acres. Any additional claims agreed by the Company to be staked by MinQuest within 2 miles from the existing perimeter of the Property boundaries shall form part of the BV Agreement.
In order to earn a 100% interest in these two properties, option payments totaling $92,500 and an additional $500,000 in exploration expenditures were required. All mining interests in the property are subject to MinQuest retaining a 3% royalty of the aggregate proceeds received by us from any smelter or other purchaser of any ores, concentrates, metals or other material of commercial value produced from the property, minus the cost of transportation of the ores, concentrates or metals, including related insurance, and smelting and refining charges.
Pursuant to the BV Agreement, we have a one-time option to purchase up to 2% of MinQuest’s royalty interest at a rate of $1,000,000 for each 1%. We must exercise our option 90 days following completion of a bankable feasibility study of the Bruner and Vernal properties, which, as it relates to a mineral resource or reserve, is an evaluation of the economics for the extraction (mining), processing and marketing of a defined ore reserve that would justify financing from a banking or financing institution for putting the mine into production.
To date, the Company has paid the option payments totaling $92,500, and has accumulated approximately $625,070 and $79,760 of exploration expenditures on the Bruner and Vernal properties, respectively. These expenditures have satisfied the requirements of the BV Agreement and 100% interest in these two properties have been transferred to Patriot, subject to MinQuest retaining a 3% royalty.
On April 1, 2009, the Company entered into a Property Option Agreement (the “AIV Agreement”) with American International Ventures Inc. (“AIV”), to acquire the exclusive option to an undivided right, title and interest in 28 patented Federal mining claims and millsites located in Nye County, Nevada. Simultaneous with the execution and delivery of the AIV Agreement, the Company paid AIV $30,000. In order to earn its option in the Property, the Company must make annual property option payments each year on April 1 consisting of $35,000 in 2010, $40,000 in 2011, $45,000 in 2012, $50,000 in 2013, $55,000 in 2014, $60,000 in 2015, and $1,185,000 in 2016. Following said payments, the Company shall be deemed to have exercised its option under the AIV Agreement and shall be entitled to an undivided 100% right, title and interest in and to the Bruner Property Expansion subject to a 1.5% Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) royalty payable to AIV and a 2% NSR payable to the former Property owner. The 2% NSR royalty may be purchased by the Company for a total payment of $500,000 and 1% of AIV’s 1.5% NSR royalty can be purchased by the Company for an additional payment of $500,000 at any time up to 30 days after beginning mine construction. The claims optioned under the agreement with AIV are contiguous with the Company’s existing Bruner property claims and therefore are also subject to the terms and conditions of the original BV Agreement with MinQuest.
On April 16, 2010, the Company entered into an Assignment Agreement with its wholly owned subsidiary, Provex Resources, Inc., a Nevada corporation, to assign the exclusive option to an undivided right, title and interest in the Bruner, Bruner Expansion and Vernal Properties to Provex. Pursuant to the Agreement, Provex assumed the rights, and agreed to perform all of the duties and obligations, of the Company arising under the original property option agreements.
On May 28, 2010 Provex entered into an exclusive right and option agreement with Canamex Resources Corp. (“Canamex”) whereby Canamex may earn up to 75% undivided interest in the Bruner, and Bruner Expansion properties, herein after collectively referred to as (the “Bruner Properties”). Upon the completion of the terms of the Agreement by Optionee, and upon earning its’ initial interest, the parties have agreed to negotiate a definitive joint venture agreement in good faith which will supersede the current agreement
Bruner Properties
Description and Location of the Bruner Properties
The Bruner Properties are located approximately 130 miles east-southeast of Reno, Nevada at the northern end of the Paradise Range. Access from Fallon, the closest town of any size, is by 50 miles of paved highway and 16 miles of gravel roads. There is no mining plant or equipment located within the property boundaries. Currently, there is no power or water supply to the mineral claims; however, a subsurface water right has been granted by the Nevada Division of Water Resources. The water right approval, for mining purposes, allows for a 78 cubic feet per second or 350 gallons per minute well on the west side of the Bruner Property.
The Bruner Properties consists of 27 patented claims (for an area of approximately 500 acres) and 179 unpatented lode claims, (for an area of approximately 3,000 acres). Included in the 179 unpatented claims is 99 new claims acquired in 2013 which are part of the aforementioned May 28, 2010 option agreement with Canamex and the area of interest. The Bruner claims presently do not have any identified economic mineral reserves.
Exploration History of the Bruner Properties
The Bruner mining district is underlain by a sequence of intermediate to felsic Tertiary volcanic rocks (which are quartz-rich rocks derived from volcanoes and deposited between two and sixty-five million years ago), including ash flow tuffs, tuffaceous sediments, and flows. A volcanic center, the origin of major volcanic activity, is thought to underlie the district, with associated silicic domes (a convex landform created by extruding quartz-rich volcanic rocks) and plugs (landform similar to a dome, but smaller) intruding the volcanic section. The exposed stratigraphic section measures over 2,500 feet in thickness. The “Duluth Tuff”, a variably crystal rich ash flow tuff, is the host for gold and silver mineralization. Flow banded silicic volcanics, volcanoclastics (coarse, unsorted sedimentary rock formed from volcanic rocks) and andesite underlie the tuff and flow-banded rhyolite overlies the host unit. Two generations of intrusive rocks have been described within the district. Ore in the Bruner district is hosted by vuggy, fractured, quartz-adularia (potassium-rich alteration mineral) veined and/or stockworked tuff. Mineralization is primarily fault controlled, although some disseminated values do occur.
The original operators at the Bruner Properties were varied. Prospecting at the property began in the early 1900’s and underground mining began in 1920. Mining on several of the veins located within the property occurred up to 1949. The patented claims contain the Duluth set of workings on the south end of the claim group comprising over 1,000 feet of workings in 3 shafts and numerous stopes. Past production from the Duluth was reported from 1935 to 1944 but is not able to be verified. The Paymaster mine is located on the north end of the patented claim group. It has a 375-foot shaft with 2,000 feet of workings on three levels. The Paymaster has no recorded production.
The unpatented claims contain the Penelas workings with 1000 feet of shaft and 4,000 feet of crosscuts on nine levels. Past production of gold and silver from the Penelas was recorded from 1935 to 1942 but is not able to be verified. Other historic workings include the Bruner adit with over 1,000 feet of workings and several shafts, and the Derelict mine with a 300 foot shaft and small open pit.
Modern exploration of the Bruner Properties began in 1979 and included the following work:
In 1983, Kennecott Minerals Company drilled fifteen RC (reverse circulation drilling) holes on the property.
In 1988-1990, Newmont Exploration Ltd. drilled approximately 10 RC holes; conducted detailed geologic mapping (producing a plan map of the rock types, structure and alteration), geochemical surveys (which is sampling of rocks or soil and determination of the abundances of elements), air and ground magnetic surveys (recording variations in the earth’s magnetic field and plotting same), and ground radiometric surveys (a survey of radioactive materials on the land surface).
In 1990-1995, Miramar Mining Corp. (“Miramar”) drilled 5 RC holes and conducted BLEG (bulk leach extractable gold) sampling and air photo interpretation. BLEG sampling involves a large sample of soil or rock that is leached using cyanide to determine the metallurgy and parameters required to recover the gold and silver content from the sample material. In their 1991 Annual Report, Miramar reported 82% extraction of gold in 56 days from a column test run on unagglomerated -3/8 inch particle size material from the historic resource area, with low cyanide consumption. The head grade was unreported.
In July 2003, members of our Board of Directors and geology team made an onsite inspection of the Bruner Properties. From this visit, an exploration plan was determined and a schedule to begin work on the properties was organized to commence in the month of September 2003. The Company completed an exploration program consisting of geologic mapping, surface geochemical sampling, a Global Positioning System (GPS) survey of grid based magnetic survey, drill holes and cultural features, and a CSMT geophysical survey (electrical, magnetic and other means used to detect features, which may be associated with mineral deposits) was also conducted. Such a survey measures the magnetic variations within the underlying rocks.
Since then, a ground magnetics survey and detailed mapping and rock sampling of the western portion of the claim block on the Bruner Properties has been completed. The rock sampling is a collection of a series of rock chips over a measured distance, which is then submitted for assays, a chemical analysis to determine the metallic content over the sampled interval. The magnetics indicate the presence of northwesterly and northerly trending faults under the pediment cover that may host gold mineralization. Faults, which are breaks in the rock along which the movement has taken place, are often the sites for the deposition of metallic rich fluids. A pediment cover is a broad, gently sloping surface at the base of a steeper slope. Geologic mapping of rocks exposed in the western portion of our claims shows several small quartz bearing structures trending northwest and dipping steeply to the northeast. These small structures are thought to be related to a much larger vein system, often filled with quartz, and contained within a fault or break in the rock (a fault-hosted vein system) under gravel cover in the broad valley south of the mapping. Approximately one square mile of ground magnetics was completed at Bruner. The survey was conducted on 50 meter spaced lines, running north-south, using a GPS controlled Geometrics magnetometer, which is the geophysical instrument used in collecting magnetic data with an attached GPS that allows the operator to more precisely determine the location of each station where the magnetic signature is taken.
The interpretation shows numerous northwest and north-south trending magnetic lows associated with faults. Magnetic lows are an occurrence that may be indicative of a destruction of magnetic minerals by later hydrothermal (hot water) fluids that have come up along these faults. These hydrothermal fluids may in turn have carried and deposited precious metals such as gold and/or silver. A much more continuous northwest trending feature that has not been drill tested is located to the southeast, under gravel cover (where there is no exposure of rock at the surface). Data were sufficiently encouraging that an expanded CSMT survey was conducted to trace these structures in the third dimension.
In October 2004, we received the approval of a Notice of Intent for Exploration Drilling and an environmental bond filed with the Nevada office of the Bureau of Land Management. A total of 18 drill sites were located to target both extensions of the gold intercepts in previous drilling and in geophysical anomalies found by a CSMT survey. With the proper approvals in place, we began drilling on the Bruner Properties on December 20, 2004. This drilling program was completed in March 2005 at a total cost of approximately $153,800, with a total of 3,200 feet of reverse circulation (RC) drilling in 7 holes. The depths of the holes ranged from 300 to 750 feet. We have received assays for all holes and the results were encouraging enough that additional drilling was conducted.
Because of the favorable drilling results from the drilling program we began on December 20, 2004, we decided to conduct additional drill testing on the Bruner Properties, including both reverse circulation and core drilling. In April 2005, we filed an amended drilling plan with the Bureau of Land Management that allowed three fences of drill holes with the fences spaced 400 feet apart along the apparent trend of the mineralization. This program was completed in the fall of 2005 with 11 holes totaling 4,205 feet being drilled.
In 2007 the Board of Directors approved an exploration budget of approximately $120,000 for the Bruner Properties. In November 2007, the Company drilled three holes at Bruner to test deeper targets within the gold-bearing tuffaceous host rocks. The holes were drilled using an RC drill rig and totaled 3,240 feet. The holes were spaced roughly 400 feet apart on a line running east-northeast. All holes were angled steeply to the north to cut projected, south-dipping shear zones. Drill hole B-18 and B-19 were drilled to a depth of 1,000 and B-20 was drilled 1,240 feet deep. All three holes contained intermittent gold at various depths. The results show a distinct increase in gold grade from the southwest (B-18) to the northeast (B-20). Only hole B-20 contained significant gold grades over any significant width. Further drilling north and east of B-20 may be warranted to vector in on the strongest part of the gold system. The drill program confirmed that gold mineralization continues at depth and is hosted by tuffaceous rocks.
The compilation of patented claims identified at least four viable drill targets separate from the Company’s original target. These targets include the Duluth, Penelas, Paymaster and Bruno which have seen moderate to intense drill programs in the past due to surface mineralization and alteration consistent with large precious metals systems located in other parts of the Great Basin.
In late 2010, shortly after entering into an option agreement regarding the Bruner Properties with Canamex Resources Corp., Canamex drilled 11 RC holes totaling 4,800 feet/1,463 meters.
In October 2011, a two phase gold-silver drilling program totaling approximately 9,150 meters (30,000 feet) in 57 drill holes was initiated. Phase I was designed to consist of 12 holes testing high - grade veins that were mined historically the first half of the 20th century but largely ignored by exploration drilling in the second half of the century. In March 2012, the final geochemical results from this program which consisted of 2,434 meters (7,985 feet) in 13 angled RC drill holes were announced. A total of 2 of the first 3 holes drilled into the Penelas East Vein System intersected gold. Drill hole B-1115 penetrated a vein nearly 400 feet below the surface and 400 feet south of the historic drill intercepts in BRU-085 and BRU-105.
In May 2012, column leach test work was initiated on a bulk sample from underground on the Bruner Properties. Approximately 650 kilograms (1500 lbs.) of minus 6-inch material collected from the Upper Adit at the Bruner gold-silver project were delivered to a metallurgical test facility which specializes in cyanidation tests for heap leaching. The final cyanide column leach results showed a +85% gold extraction in 83 days on the sample with +80% extractions in both -3 inch and -3/4 inch crush sizes in 40 days.
In May 2012, Phase II drilling was proposed to test the extensions to the high-grade gold-silver intersected in the Penelas East vein in drill hole B-1115. The drilling was intended to test the strike extension and the dip extension of the intercept in B-1115 between 30-60 meters (100-200 feet) along strike to the north and to the south and 30-60 meters (100- 200 feet) below the elevation of the intercept in B-1115 to evaluate the potential for continuity along strike and increased potential with depth per the epithermal vein model.
The 2012 drilling program concluded with a total of 17 RC holes totaling 13,400 feet/4084 meters and two core holes totaling 1,306 feet/398 meters, all drilled about 1,000 feet/300 meters southeast of the old Penelas mine workings and where significant gold intercepts were encountered in the last hole in the 2011 drilling program. Hole B-1201, the first hole in 2012, intersected 360 feet (110 meters) and the remainder of the 2012 drill holes focused on drilling around this intercept in B-1201. The geology in the vicinity of hole B-1201 is mostly covered by 30-50 feet (10-15 meters) of alluvium, and the geology and geometry of the mineralized zone cannot be gleaned by surface mapping or sampling, requiring close-spaced drilling to ascertain the orientation of the significant gold intercepts encountered in 2012.
In March 2013, a Reverse Circulation ("RC") drill program of 22,000 feet was announced and scheduled to commence at the Bruner Properties. The drilling phase will begin on the west side of the northern extension of the former producing July-Duluth mine sites and then move east to the Penelas East discovery area, where drilling in 2012 encountered a mineralized interval of 360 feet. Metallurgical test work was underway on drill samples from the Penelas East discovery deposit area with results to be reported shortly.
The 2013 drill program concluded with a total of 39 RC holes totaling 23,590 feet/7,190 meters and 3 core holes totaling 2,380 feet/725 meters being drilled between January and November. Of the total, seven RC holes were drilled at the north end of the Bruner vein target with disappointing results, although sufficient gold was encountered with increasing depth to indicate further drilling is warranted to chase this vein system to greater depths. Of the 35 holes drilled at the Penelas East discovery area, all but 5 holes intersected significant gold intercepts that help define the gold mineral system there. The 5 holes that failed to intersect significant gold intervals were drilled south of all other holes completed to date, encountered intense clay alteration which is generally indicative of being outside of the precious metal and proximal alteration of silica + adularia, and may be located on the opposite side of a fault that terminates or truncates the gold-silver mineral system at the Penelas East discovery area. The last hole of 2013 was drilled in the historic resource area to test a concept that high-grade gold was ponded beneath prominent silica + adularia spires that were mapped in detail during the summer of 2013.
In April 2014, a 53 hole drill program for both the Historic Resource and Penelas East discovery areas was announced. The program was to consist of approximately 1000 meters (3,280 feet) of core drilling and 9,000 meters (29,500 feet) of reverse circulation (RC) drilling. Core drilling in the Historic Resource area to start with an offset of RC hole B-1340, which tested at 93%-97% gold extraction levels after bottle roll cyanidation tests on hole composites were performed in early 2014. A total of 5 core holes and 24 RC holes are planned to test this high-grade feeder zone. Drilling at the Penelas East discovery area will focus on testing the prominent VLF-EM current density and coincident gold-in-soil anomalies. A total of 24 holes are planned in the Penelas East discovery area, which will expand the total number of holes drilled in this area to 62.
In April 2014, the Company reported the acquisition of an additional 20 acre patented mining claim known as the Elk Lode claim. The Elk Lode claim complements the Company’s existing holdings at the Bruner site.
The 2014 drilling program concluded with a total of 51 RC holes were drilled totaling 24,610 feet/7,501 meters and 13 core holes totaling 7,257feet/2,212 meters.
Ten (10) RC holes totaling 2,870 feet/875 meters were drilled at the Paymaster hill/mine area where previous sampling of old underground workings, currently inaccessible, indicated the presence of high-grade gold associated with the intersection of steeply dipping structures a generally flat lying volcaniclastic sediments immediately overlying a basement of unaltered andesite flows. These holes were very successful and additional drilling at the Paymaster hill/mine target is warranted.
Twelve (12) RC holes totaling 7,785 feet/2,373 meters were drilled to test VLF-EM current density anomalies detected north and northwest of the Penelas East discovery area. Sufficient gold was intersected in these holes to suggest the VLF-EM method may be seeing mineralized structures and thus deserve further drilling to assess this apparent correlation further.
Three (3) RC holes totaling 1,935 feet/590 meters and 2 core holes totaling 1,865 feet/568 meters were drilled at the northern open extension of the Penelas East discovery area to test deep high-grade intercepts encountered there in 2013. All of these holes intersected significant gold intercepts both near the surface and at depth to warrant additional drilling of the open northern extension to the Penelas East discovery area.
The majority of the drilling in 2014 was concentrated in the historic resource area in order to provide sufficient modern geologic and controlled assay data. A total of 27 RC holes totaling 12,456 feet/3,797 meters and 10 core holes totaling 4,956 feet/1,510 meters were completed in the historic resource area. The data from these holes flush out the core mineralized zone of the historic resource area and provide the detailed understanding of the host geology and the distribution of grade to be able to properly model the deposit and the entire assay set.
The table below summarizes Canamex’s exploration drilling at the Bruner Properties.
The collar locations of the drilling on the Bruner Properties are shown below.
Planned Exploration
We will continue to monitor our optionee’s exploration program as it progresses. To date the Bruner Properties are without known reserves. Further information regarding resources and drill results are available through a NI 43-101 compliant technical report. United States and Canadian Securities Laws and Regulations relating thereto preclude our disclosure of certain published information in this Form 10-K.
Vernal Property
Description and Location of the Vernal Property
The Vernal Property is located approximately 140 miles east-southeast of Reno, Nevada on the west side of the Shoshone Mountains. Access from Fallon, the closest town of any size, is by 50 miles of paved highway and 30 miles of gravel roads. We hold the property via 12 unpatented mining claims (approximately 248 acres).
Exploration History of the Vernal Property
Historical work includes numerous short adits constructed on the Vernal Property between 1907 and 1936. There appears to have been little or no mineral production.
The Vernal Property is underlain by a thick sequence of Tertiary age rhyolitic volcanic rocks including tuffs, flows and intrusives. A volcanic center is thought to underlie the district, with an intruding rhyolite plug dome (a domal feature formed by the extrusion of viscous quartz-rich volcanic rocks) thought to be closely related to mineralization encountered by the geologists of Amselco, the U.S. subsidiary of a British company, who explored the Vernal Property back in the 1980’s, and who in 1983 mapped, sampled and drilled the Vernal Property. Amselco has not been involved with the Vernal Property over the last 20 years and is not associated with our option on the Vernal Property or the exploration work we are doing there. A 225 foot wide zone of poorly outcropping quartz stockworks (a multi-directional quartz veinlet system) and larger veining trends exist northeast from the northern margin of the plug. The veining consists of chalcedony containing 1-5% pyrite. Clay alteration of the host volcanics is strong. Northwest trending veins are also present but very poorly exposed. Both directions carry gold values. Scattered vein float is found over the plug. The most significant gold values in rock chips come from veining in tuffaceous rocks north of the nearly east-west contact of the plug. This area has poor exposure, but sampling of old dumps and surface workings show an open-ended gold anomaly that measures 630 feet by 450 feet.
The Vernal Property claims presently do not have any known mineral reserves. The property that is the subject of our mineral claims is undeveloped and does not contain any commercial scale open-pits. Numerous shallow underground excavations occur within the central portion of the property. No reported historic production is noted for the property. There is no mining plant or equipment located on the property that is the subject of the mineral claim. Currently, there is no power supply to the mineral claims. Although drill holes are present within the property boundary, there is no known drilled reserve on our claims.
In July 2003, members of our Board of Directors and geology team made an onsite inspection of the Vernal property. Mapping (the process of laying out a grid on the land for area identification where samples are taken) and sampling (the process of taking small quantities of soil and rock for analysis) have been completed. In March 2005, we initiated the process to secure the proper permits for trenching and geochemical sampling from the U.S. Forest Service.
Our exploration of the Vernal Property to date has consisted of geologic mapping, trenching and rock chip geochemical sampling. The Board of Directors approved a budget of approximately $55,000 (including the refundable bond of $900) for the Vernal property. An exploration program was conducted in November, 2008. The program consisted of 200 feet of trenching, sampling and mapping, and opening, mapping and sampling of an underground workings consisting of approximately 275 feet of workings. The Company is currently evaluating the results of the program at the Vernal Property.
Planned Exploration
The Company’s current objectives are to assess the geological merits and if warranted and feasible establish an exploration program to identify the potential for economically viable mineralization. The cost of an exploration plan has not yet been determined therefore estimated exploration expenditures are not available at this time. We recognize that the Vernal Property is a grass roots exploration opportunity and there are currently no proven or probable reserves.
Moss Property
The Moss Property originally consisted of 104 unpatented claims and 15 patented claims located in the Oatman Mining District of Mohave County, Arizona. The Company acquired these claims in a series of transactions during fiscal 2004 and 2005.
Between April 12, 2011 and September 5, 2012, Northern Vertex Mining Corp. and/or its United States subsidiary Golden Vertex Corp. (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Northern Vertex” or “Vertex”), subsequently added 189 additional new unpatented claims to the Moss Property which are now part of the February 28, 2011 Exploration and Option Agreement and included in the area of interest. The 15 patented claims have an approximate total area of 225 acres and 293 unpatented claims have an approximate total area of 5,860 acres, with 592 acres of overlap for a net area of approximately 5,268 acres. The Moss Property claims presently do not have any identified economic mineral reserves.
Unless otherwise stated, information of a technical or scientific nature related to the Moss Property contained in this Form 10-K is summarized or extracted from the Technical Report and Preliminary Economic Assessment For the Moss Mine Gold-Silver Project dated March 12, 2013, prepared by CDM Smith, Inc. and Metal Mining Consultants Inc. (“MMC”) (the "Moss Technical Report"). Scott E. Wilson, CPG, Stewart D. Redwood, FIMMM, Brian S. Antonioli, P.E., John T. Gormley, P.E., John C. Brower, Ph.D., CPG, Jack McPartland, Ph.D., CPG, and Robert H. Lambeth, P.E., P.G., LHG, are the Qualified Persons who have prepared the Moss Technical Report, each of whom is independent of Northern Vertex. Robert Coale, President and a Professional Engineer, is the Qualified Person required under NI 43-101 who has approved the scientific and technical information disclosed in this Form 10-K.
The reader should consult the Moss Technical Report to obtain further particulars regarding the Moss Property. The Moss Technical Report is available for viewing under the Company’s profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.
Acquisition of Interests
Gintoff Claim
On November 14, 2003, the Company entered into a letter of intent to acquire a single patented claim from Gregory Gintoff. The total purchase price of $50,000 was made in two installments of $10,000 in December 2003 and $40,000 in February 2004.
MinQuest Claims
We hold the MinQuest claims via 104 unpatented mining claims that were acquired from MinQuest. On March 4, 2004 the Company signed a Letter Agreement (the “Agreement”) that earned it a 100% interest in these claims by paying MinQuest a one-time fee of $50,000. This $50,000 fee was paid on July 7, 2004. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement, MinQuest will retain a 3% NSR on any and all production derived from the unpatented mining claims listed under the Agreement and on public lands within one mile of MinQuest, Inc’s outside perimeter of the present claim boundary; a 1.0% NSR on patented claims with no other royalty within the property; and a 0.5% overriding NSR on all production within the property derived from patented claims with other royalty interests.
Williams Property
The property is comprised of six patented claims (collectively, the “Williams Property”). These claims were held collectively by as many as 23 owners within an extended family who were represented by Barbara Williams, a realtor, and a member of this extended family, who put together the letter of intent and arranged for the signing of the agreement by the numerous owners. None of these owners, including Barbara Williams, has or has had any relationship or affiliation with us prior to the agreement for the Williams Property.
In October 2003, former Director, Robert Sibthorpe (who is a geologist by training), had evaluated the proposal for the purchase of the Williams Property. His recommendation was to visit the site, and if the visual inspection supported the information presented in the proposal, then an offer to purchase should be presented. In November 2003, the Company executed a letter of intent to purchase a 100% interest in Williams Property owned by the extended family. This property is unrelated to and separate from the MinQuest Claims. The sellers delivered to Patriot all information in their possession regarding the Williams Property.
In January 2004, Mr. Robert Coale P.E, current President and Director, visited the site to see the overall geological setting and occurrence of mineralization and evaluated the drilling program proposed by MinQuest. At that time, the metallurgical data and reports that had been collected from the sellers were reviewed. Mr. Coale’s analysis revealed that reagent (liquid chemicals used for leaching) consumptions are acceptable and deleterious compounds (minerals present in the ore that would be difficult to work with) were not apparent. He recommended bulk sampling at a selected location in the future once the definition of the ore body was further advanced through drilling. On May 31, 2004, Robert Sibthorpe presented his report to Management with a summary of the property, a review of a draft budget and a layout of the drilling program planned for the property.
The drilling was conducted throughout the spring and early summer of 2004, and in June 2004, Mr. Sibthorpe presented a report to Management incorporating the results of the drill program which encouraged the Company to pursue the project.
On February 19, 2004, the Company executed a formal agreement to purchase the Williams Property for $350,000. On November 11, 2004, the purchase was completed and the Company now owns 100% interest in the Williams Property.
Greenwood Claim
On January 18, 2005, the Company acquired a single patented claim from a group of individuals, represented by an escrow agent, for $150,000.
Martinez Claims
The Company acquired five patented claims from Ramon and Edna Martinez for a total of $150,000. The Company made one payment of $75,000 on November 8, 2004, and made the final payment of $75,000 on February 14, 2005.
Ruth and Rattan Claims
On January 18, 2005, the Company acquired two patented claims known as the Ruth and Rattan claims for a single payment of $25,000.
Description and Location of the Moss Property
The Moss Property is located in Mohave County, Arizona in the historic Oatman District, and is located some 5 miles northwest of the town of Oatman, with Kingman, Arizona to the east, Laughlin, Nevada to the west and Las Vegas, Nevada to the north. Access is via paved and gravel roads from Bullhead City.
Exploration History of the Moss Property
Discovered in 1864, the Moss Mine was the first major gold discovery made in the District (Malach, 1977). Historical records show that the Oatman District produced up to 2.2 million ounces of gold from 1897 to 1942 (Durning & Buchanan, 1984). The Moss Property contains the site of the former Moss Mine. The Moss Mine reportedly produced about 12,000 ounces of gold up until it was closed in 1866. It is said that an ore shoot containing more than $200,000 in gold was mined in a glory hole 10 feet in diameter by 10 feet deep on a claim just east of the later site of the Allen Shaft (Malach, 1977). The mine was worked intermittently through the 1930’s but produced only minor amounts of gold after the initial bonanza grades. The mine lay idle until the early 1980’s when a number of mining companies explored the district. These companies included Billiton Minerals, Magma Copper, Golconda Resources and Addwest Minerals. The most significant historic mining at Moss Mine occurred on narrow veins that trend sub-parallel to the Moss Mine vein and dip steeply to the north. These veins should intersect the Moss Mine vein at depth. The project area is underlain by Tertiary quartz monzonite (a coarsely crystalline rock composed primarily of the minerals quartz, plagioclase and orthoclase) intruding tertiary volcanics. Precambrian basement rocks underlie the volcanics. The veins consist of quartz-calcite and lesser adularia. The principal vein is up to 45 feet thick and can be followed on surface for over 5,000 feet. The hanging wall commonly has several tens of feet of stockwork veining. Gold values are somewhat erratic but appear to be highest in the thicker and deeper parts of the vein explored to date. The reliability, key assumptions and methods used to prepare the aforementioned data is unavailable. We do not treat the historical results as a current mineral reserve as they have not been verified by a Qualified Person. The reader should consult the Moss Technical Report to obtain further information regarding the Moss Property. The Moss Technical Report is available for viewing under the Company’s profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.
The Company’s initial exploration of the Moss Property has consisted of geologic mapping, vein geochemical sampling and drill testing of the identified veins. Numerous drill holes from past drilling programs, combined with sampling of underground workings within the patented mining claims, have culminated in a pre-feasibility study based on drill results from pre-1992 exploration.
In the spring of 2004, the Company commenced Phase 1 drilling at the Moss Property. By the year end, a total of 36 holes were drilled totaling 8,807 feet. Thirty holes were drilled on the Gintoff Claim on the Moss Property, and six holes were drilled on one of the adjacent parcels of land. The easternmost section of the Property, which was mostly untested by drilling, was drilled with thirty reverse circulation holes. This allowed accurate cross-sections to be made for this area. The coverage on this section is generally two or three holes on 100 foot sections testing grades and widths from 50-250 feet down dip. In the western area, limited confirmation drilling was carried out and the results obtained were generally in line with the values obtained by previous operators. Geological information obtained may now provide a structural explanation for the lack of success obtained here to date by previous operators. A study of all drilling results through 2004 at the Moss Property indicated a tendency for total gold content to increase with intercept depth. Roughly 60% of the deeper holes have better intercepts than shallow holes.
In April 2005, the Company initiated an expanded Phase II drilling program to test for possible high-grade (0.30 ounces per ton or above) down-dip extensions of the Moss vein. The program originally included 10-15 holes ranging from 500 to 1300 feet for a total of approximately 12,000 feet of reverse circulation (RC) drilling. The budget for this program was $643,700. The first portion of this expanded drilling program was expected to be completed by the fall of 2005, however, after eight holes were attempted, drilling was halted because of inadequate capabilities of the drill rig to penetrate the granites. The remainder of the program was completed when the Company completed 6 core holes from November 2006 to February 2007 for a total amount drilled of 3,917 feet. The exploration program failed to find higher grades but it did show that the vein system continues to at least 800 feet below the surface and appears to be thickening.
In the spring of 2008, the Company submitted core samples to a laboratory where leach testing was conducted. Leaching was conducted in both bench scale (Bottle rolls) and in columns using crushed ore as the feed sample. Three column leach tests at 3 different crush sizes were completed on the Moss drilling samples. They were leached for 120 days. The fine crush of ¼ inch had 66% of the gold and 42% of the silver recovered in 120 days. The recovery curve is still not flat at the end of 120 days indicating additional gold/silver could be recovered. The recoveries are already near the 70% gold and 50% silver that is average for the industry. The 1 inch crush column recovered 39% of the gold and 14% of the silver after 120 days, but the leach curve again indicates no significant decrease in percent recovery by month indicating that greater recoveries may be obtained over longer periods of time.
Using the column leach data obtained from the testing program completed in April 2008 as well as additional information, the Company may engage an outside firm to conduct a preliminary economic analysis that will evaluate the overall value of the property considering metallurgical recovery, volume and gold grade of mineralized rock, capital and operating costs, and other factors. This information would be used to define additional work needed to enhance the value of the property.
In May 2009, the Board of Directors approved a $200,000 Phase III exploration budget for the Moss Property. A program of six or seven core holes was planned to test the down-dip extension of the Moss vein system. Total drilling footage was estimated at 3,000 feet. The drilling tested approximately 2,000 feet of strike length of the vein. The goal of this program was to further define the trend and depth of mineralization as well as provide additional metallurgical material for column leach tests.
In January 2010, the Company engaged Mr. Paul D. Noland, a registered professional geologist, to conduct an independent resource study. The report concluded that the Moss Property hosts a drill indicated gold-silver estimate and requires systematic in-fill and down-dip drilling to be placed into a final reserve category. No economic or mining feasibility parameters were applied however, a cursory examination of several sections in the heart of the resource area suggests that the entire resource (Main Zone and Hanging wall Zone) may be exploited by an open pit with a stripping ratio of between 3:1 and 4:1, and average pit wall slope of 45 degrees. This estimate was determined using the assumption that the deposit will be an open pit, bulk minable, heap leach mine. To keep mining and grade control cost minimal, sub-cut off grade material within the boundary of the resource was allowed to dilute the final grade.
The likelihood of finding additional bulk minable ore on the property is considered very good. Patriot Gold geologists have suggested the likelihood of main zone mineralization continuing at depth in previous reports. The main body of mineralization appears to widen to the west along strike, but the grade decreases. However, with the lower grades needed for an open pit, heap leachable deposit, this material is now part of the resource. This means the deposit is open-ended to the west. Much of the Main Zone remains untested down dip. Continued drill evaluation of down-dip and strike extensions is recommended.
In March 2010, Patriot Gold engaged an outside firm to initiate a series of metallurgical tests to focus on the amenability of the Moss deposit to heap leaching gold/silver recovery. Core from Moss was tested in four column leach tests with crush sizes up to 2 inches. The crushed ore was leached in 5 feet high columns for a minimum of 200 days. The tests results determined maximum obtainable gold and silver recoveries from the sample material using leaching as well as the leach times needed for maximum recovery.
Moss Property Option Agreement
On February 28, 2011, the Company entered into an Exploration and Option to Enter Joint Venture Agreement (the “Moss Agreement”), with Idaho State Gold Company, LLC, (“ISGC”) whereby the Company granted the option and right to earn a vested seventy percent (70%) interest in the property and the right and option to form a joint venture for the management and ownership of the properties called the Moss Mine Property, Mohave County, Arizona. Pursuant to the Moss Agreement, ISGC paid US $500,000 upon execution, and must spend an aggregate total of US $8 million on exploration and related expenditures over the next five years and subsequent to exercise of the earn-in, ISGC and Patriot Gold will form a 70/30 joint venture. Under this agreement financing of future work on the property would be on a proportional basis under the direction of a management committee with voting rights proportional to ownership percentage. Either party may be diluted on the basis of a standard formula if they do not contribute to the planned programs. If either party is diluted below 10 percent, their interest will convert to a three percent NSR (net smelter return) royalty. An existing 3-3.5 percent NSR exists on the Moss Mine Property.
In March, 2011, ISGC transferred its rights to the Exploration and Option Agreement dated February 28, 2011, to Northern Vertex Mining Corp.
Shortly thereafter, drilling equipment and personnel were mobilized to the site to take additional core and reverse circulation samples. The purpose of its Phase I drilling campaign was to correlate and corroborate the results of previous work and to provide step-out drilling to further define the limits of the deposit.
In April 2011, an additional 144 claims adjacent to and contiguous to the Moss Property were staked. As per the Moss Agreement, any claims staked by either party within one mile of the claim boundaries are subject to the terms of the original agreement.
Through July 2011, 15 drill holes by both reverse-circulation (RC) and coring techniques were completed as part of the Phase I Moss Property drilling program. The purpose of these holes was to evaluate and test the extensions of the mineralized zone as well as to confirm the results of prior drilling and exploration work. We announced the findings from the results received from the drilling which demonstrate the thicknesses and grades encountered are compatible with historical drill results where 30 to 50 m intervals of 1+ gram gold.
Phase I Drilling Highlights
* AuEq (gpt) = Au (gpt) + 1/40th Ag (gpt). gpt = grams / metric tonne. The Moss Technical Report is available for viewing under the Company’s profile on Sedar at www.Sedar.com.
In October 2011, a National Instrument 43-101 compliant Independent Resource Calculation was completed by Scott E. Wilson Consulting.
In February 2012, we announced Phase II results of the Moss Property for the first 18 holes of the planned 20,000 foot (6,500 meter) in-fill drill and resource expansion program. It was reported that all five of the Phase II infill holes, AR124, 125, 127, 128 and 133 were successful, with each hole intersecting 24+ meter widths of mineralized material. The significant intersections returned from Phase II drilling are consistent with results from our Phase I drill program. Importantly, they demonstrate the consistent internal distribution of gold we have come to expect from the Moss gold-silver system.
Highlights from the first 18 holes of Phase II Drilling - Moss Property
Hole AR 121: 0.51+ gpt Gold Eqv over 84+ meters including 2.13 gpt Gold Eqv over 7.6 m
Hole AR 123: 0.52+ gpt Gold Eqv over 22+ meters including 0.89 gpt Gold Eqv over 6.1 m
Hole AR 124: 1.45+ gpt Gold Eqv over 24+ meters including 2.27 gpt Gold Eqv over 13.7 m
Hole AR-128: 0.75+ gpt Gold Eqv over 57+ meters including 1.46 gpt Gold Eqv over 15.2 m
Hole AR 136: 19.39 gpt Gold Eqv over 1.52 meters
In May 2012, we reported further successful results from drilling core as the final part of the Phase II infill drill and resource expansion program. This completed drill results for all 41 holes in the current drilling program: 18 RC (reverse circulation) drill holes and 23 diamond drill (core) holes.
Highlights from core holes 19 through 41 are as in the table below:
* AuEq (gpt) = Au (gpt) + 1/40th Ag (gpt)
* gpt = grams / metric tonne
The update identified that the gold/silver mineralized structure now spans 6,000 ft on strike, remaining open to the West, East and at depth. High-grade feeder veins were intersected to the south and are believed to be associated with historic mining activity dating back to the early 1900's. We continue to encounter multi-meter, 1+ gpt Gold Eqv intervals and multi-gram hot spots, contained within 40+ meter intersections, running well above internal cut-off grades.
In July 2012, we reported on channel samples taken underground near the vicinity of the Allen Shaft at the Moss Property. The sampling taken at five foot intervals across the roof of drifts and cross-cuts on the -60 level consistently shows 1.5+ gpt gold equivalent grades returned, further demonstrating the remarkable uniformity of the Moss stockwork vein Gold-Silver system both on strike and at depth. The main drift east averaged 4.73 gpt gold equivalent over 6.1m and stopped in 7.58 gpt gold equivalent mineralization.
Underground sampling results are provided below:
* AuEq (gpt) = Au (gpt) + 1/40th Ag(gpt)
* gpt = grams / metric tonne
In October 2012, we announced plans to commence a resource definition drill program to expand the parameters of a potential starter pit at the Moss Property. The program would focus on two central hills on patented (private) ground within the property where mineralization is exposed at the surface. Drilling is designed to assist the technical team in the preliminary design and modeling of a starter pit in the central area of the mineralized gold-silver corridor. The drill program was also expected to allow the construction of a mine plan and mine design as required by Arizona Dept. of Environmental Quality (AZ DEQ) for an Aquifer Protection Permit (APP).
In November 2012, we provided a comprehensive update on exploration and development plans for the Moss Property. Some key highlights of the update were as summarized below:
·Additional resource definition drill program to increase resources adjacent to proposed pits and for data use in mine design and planning
·Low strip ratio in initial mining areas possible
·Amenable to low cost, heap leach, open pit mining
·Major stockwork vein system outcropping at surface for 5,000 feet
·Metallurgical test-work underway
·3 Phase Mine Development Plan to include:
o Application for Aquifer Protection Permit for 90,000 tonne Pilot Phase I quarry/leach pad submitted to Arizona Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) by month end
o Phase II production target, 5,000 tpd
o Phase III production target 10,000 tpd
The 3 Phase Mine Development Plan is designed to sequentially progress the project from conceptual design and laboratory test work to pilot plant testing in the field and, if this is successful, to secure approval for building a 5000 tonnes per day mine initially and, if this is successful, then move to 10,000 tonnes per day ultimately. The mine, should it proceed to Phase II production, will be a classic heap leach operation.
The business plan has been specifically designed to take advantage of the natural attributes of the Moss deposit while minimizing the capital required to get into production and minimizing the lead time in doing so, thereby reducing project development risk and capital risk. Our Optionee/Operator has completed a Preliminary Economic Assessment (PEA) of the Moss Project which incorporates mine, processing and heap leach designs. This includes estimates of capital and operating costs and pre-tax cash flows for Phases I and II. A scoping level analysis will be subsequently prepared for Phase III. Phase I pilot plant operations commenced mid 2013. Phase II operations are expected to commence at a rate of 5,000 tpd. Phase III operations are expected to commence at a rate of 10,000 tpd. A Bankable Feasibility Study is also now underway and expected to be completed in 2015. Please refer to the Patriot Gold Corp. website at www.patriotgoldcorp.com for further information.
1) Amended PEA
In June 2013, the Company announced the completion of an amended Preliminary Economic Assessment ("PEA") for the Moss Mine Project, dated June 18, 2013.
The principal conclusions of the Amended PEA are generally consistent with the original amended PEA that was disclosed in Patriot Gold's April 10, 2013 news release. A summary of the changes to the previously highlighted results from the April 10th news release is described below:
A link to the amended PEA is on our website. The amended PEA includes the following:
· Enhanced disclosure of the qualifications of the responsible Qualified Persons ("QP") who co- authored the report as well as the addition of Robert Lambeth, P.Eng to the QP team;
· Augmented information about the rationale for the channel-shaped "trench" open pit model for the near-surface Moss vein stock-work system versus using underground mining methods to mine the deposit.
· Additional description of the geology of the Moss vein stock-work mineralized system to further assist the reader in assessing the open pit mining model used in the report versus using underground mining methods.
· Further disclosure about the prior underground mining and its minimal effect on the estimated resource base.
· Additional information about the choice of a 0.3 grams/tonne cut-off for the resource estimates included in the PEA.
· Additional explanation of the oxide/non-oxide nature of the deposit and the influence of that on metallurgical recoveries.
· Further explanations of the extensive surface, and subsurface, geotechnical work carried out on the Moss Mine rock structures.
· Effects of the approximately 2% NSR royalty on the Moss Mine Gold-Silver Project economics.
· Additional sensitivity analysis to show the effect of percentage changes in metals prices, capital costs and operating costs on the project's base case economics.
· Inclusion of updated consensus price forecasts information as part of the $1500/ounce gold and $30/ounce silver price assumptions.
· Information about the tax structure in the jurisdiction in which mining would take place and recognition that while tax effects are not quantified they will reduce project net present value and internal rate of return.
· Revised recommendation to increase drilling (and related assaying and reporting) from 2200 to 3700 meters at an approximate additional cost of $442,000 ($904,000 total cost of drilling). The PEA conclusions are not dependent on the outcome of the drilling which is designed with the goal of upgrading resources lying outside of the first two phases of the project.
The Company reiterates that the Amended PEA is preliminary in nature and that there is no certainty that the preliminary economic assessment will be realized.
In July 2013, the Company provided an update on the Phase I pilot plant operations.
Construction commenced May 1, 2013 on the infrastructure necessary to carry out pilot scale open pit mining and heap leach processing of an aggregate of approximately 90,000 tonnes of mineralized rock. The Pilot Plant leach pad, designed to test the economic and technical viability of heap leaching finely crushed, agglomerated material, is approximately 700 feet in length and 300 feet wide. The Phase I pit will be surface mined at a strip ratio of 0.79:1 and a production rate of 1,000 tonnes of mineralized rock, crushed to 95% -1/4 inch, per day.
Initial placement of fine crushed agglomerated material (95% -1/4 inch) onto leach pads was completed on June 28, 2013. Initial treatment of solution through carbon columns for heap leaching was scheduled to be completed by July 18, 2013. Total Phase I mineralized material of 90,000 mt was expected to be placed onto the leach pads by September 15, 2013.
In July 2013, the Company announced the results from a 15 hole drilling program and metallurgical results obtained from heap leach cyanidation (column leach) testwork on a mineralized material low grade bulk sample.
Key Highlights:
· Results from the drilling program include completed assay results ranging from 1.16 g/t to 5.02 g/t of gold equivalent values (AuEq)
· Strong gold (Au) recovery results were achieved from test work on agglomerated samples of low grade material using heap leach cyanidation processing
· Gold recovery rate was more rapid for the low grade mineralized material vs. the high grade mineralized material (as previously reported in the Amended Preliminary Economic Assessment dated June 18, 2013)
· The column leach test recoveries were 82.7% for gold (Au) and 36% for silver (Ag) at a 73 day leach time on low grade materials
The 2,527 meter exploration diamond drilling program was completed as part of a recommended $1.15 million exploration program. Assay results are presented below:
In September 2013, the Company announced the official opening of the Moss Mine Reactivation Project Pilot Plant and highlighted the significant development milestones which have been reached for the Phase I - Pilot Plant.
· Construction on all major items for Phase I - Pilot Plant are completed
· Operations focused on completion of mining, crushing, agglomerating and stacking operations for the 90,000 tonnes planned in the Preliminary Economic Assessment
· Leaching of the stacked mineralized material took place with continual sampling and assaying of the leached material being performed
In October, the Company announced additional positive results from the remaining assays for Phase 4 drilling, a 19-hole 2,643.8 meter drilling program.
Key Highlights:
· Results complete for AR-196, 197, 199, 200, 201, 206, 207, 208, 210, 211, and 212, with assays for all drill holes in the 15-hole drill program received
· Confirmation that near surface stockwork mineralization does extend in the western section of the deposit
· Extended depth drilling up to 220 meters from the surface indicates mineralization is continuing to occur at depth and remains open to depth in the eastern and central portions of the deposit
· A potential upgrade in resource classification (from ‘inferred to ‘indicated’) based on additional information received in the eastern portion of the Moss deposit
· Additional assay results received allow pit slope optimization studies to progress further given sufficient data gathered from the oriented core drilling and structural mapping as a result of this program
All holes were drilled on patented claims as part of the Mine Exploration and Geotechnical Programs with regard to the Moss Mine heap leach project.
In December 2013, the Company announced that the first gold pour had been processed from its Moss Mine project in Mojave County, Arizona. The precious metals were sold based on the price of US$1326/oz Au and US22.30/oz Ag.
According to the PEA (Preliminary Economic Assessment) for Phase I of the project, 91,000 metric tonnes (mt) of mineralized material was to be extracted from the mine. Mining commenced at the beginning of June 2013 and a total of 90,199 mt have now been mined. Crushing, screening, agglomerating, and conveying of the nearly 90,000 mt has been undertaken. Leaching activities that began in mid-August 2013 continued into 2014 and 2015.
Patriot's Optionee/Operator has now gathered enough data from processing to allow for optimization of the leach pad design which allows for a potential increase in the permissible tonnage under the present PEA guidelines for Phase I of the Pilot Plant.
In April 2014, the Company announced the results of an airborne magnetic survey of its Moss Gold-Silver project located in the historic and active Oatman Mining District near Bullhead City, Arizona. Results of the survey included use of magnetic, field mapping and historic mineral and workings data.
Key Highlights:
· The main Moss resource and hosting structure lies along a well-defined magnetic high and includes three kilometers of unexplored potential on one structure.
· Nine magnetic linear anomalies associated with known mineral occurrences and historic workings were found as part of the Moss structure, indicating potential for hosting new discoveries along these structures.
· One structure includes nearly six kilometers of a mapped extension of the Gold Road deposit which previously produced nearly 500,000 ounces at 0.32 opt gold.
· The implications of the new data indicate that the exploration potential of the Moss site is very good and that there is the likelihood of further discoveries on the Moss property.
· Following the interpreted results of the survey, the Company's Optionee/Operator, is currently designing an exploration program to assess the potential of the additional structures identified that would run concurrently with Phase II - Operations Phase of the Moss project plan.
The survey found a total of 21 kilometers of potential strike length along the entire Moss Mine property. In addition, several other linear magnetic lows and highs were found that would require ground work to determine if they are mineralized.
In April 2014, the Optionee/Operator provided a more detailed update on Phase I - Pilot Plant operations.
Key Highlights:
· A total of 3,389 ounces of gold and 13,211 ounces of silver was recovered, processed and sold, with the net result being applied to costs.
· Gold recovery rates on Cells 1-5 were 80.51% after an average of 192 days, exceeding Preliminary Economic Assessment (PEA) estimates.
· Gold recovery rates in Cells 6A and 6B were 55.87% after 96 days.
· Gold recovery in all cells was scheduled to continue through mid-year.
· An additional 600 ounces of gold and 12,000 ounces of silver were estimated to be recovered over the ensuing months.
As of April 6, 2014, Cells 1-5 consisting of 81,630 tonnes of mineralized material containing 3,656.7 ounces of gold and 36,912 ounces of silver were under continued leaching which showed recovery rates of 80.51% with average leaching time of 192 days (leaching times varied from 218 days for cell 1 to 163 days for cell 5). Gold recovery attributed to cells 1-5 total 2,944.4 ounces yielding a pre-completion recovery of 80.51% Au compared to PEA based on 75% gold recovery after 9 months. Gold was still being recovered from all 5 cells. Silver recoveries were at 38.72% as gold was being preferentially absorbed onto the carbon resulting in high silver recycling values in the leach solution.
In September 2014, the Company announced an update on the geological mapping and sampling program that had commenced on an untested extension of the Moss Property. The objective of the program was to identify new drill targets at potentially undiscovered resource rich areas of the Moss Property including areas outside the main moss vein system. Specific target areas included 1,500 meters of under explored structure and five previously identified gold mineralization target areas on the Silver Creek property Claim.
In March 2015, the Company announced updates on the projects property wide exploration program. A total of 681 samples were collected with a significant number returning gold mineralization with assays in excess of 1 gpt in the Oatman Extension, Silver Creek Spring, Old Timer and Grapevine areas. Several previously identified structures have shown mineralization over significant strike lengths. Airborne geophysics and magnetic data highlighted potential structures for further exploration which also conform to previously identified aeromagnetic trends.
Planned Exploration
We will continue to monitor our option partner’s exploration program as it progresses. To date the Moss Property is without known economic reserves. Further information regarding resources and drill results are available for viewing in the Moss Technical Report under the Company’s profile on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. United States and Canadian Securities Laws and Regulations relating thereto preclude our disclosure of certain published information in this Form 10-K.
Windy Peak Property
Acquisition of Interest
In May 2015, after a review of historical records and information available regarding a potential mineral property interest in Churchill County, Nevada, the Company acquired the Windy Peak Property, (referred to herein as the “Windy Peak Property,” "Windy Peak” or the “Property”). This grassroots exploration project was secured through the completion of an Assignment and Assumption Agreement. Windy Peak has not been visited by any current officers or directors of the Company.
The Windy Peak Property Location in Nevada
Description and Location of the Windy Peak Property
The Windy Peak Property consists of 79 unpatented mineral claims covering approximately 1,630 acres, 3 miles NNE of the Bell Mountain and 7 miles east of the Fairview mining district in southwest Nevada. Windy Peak is approximately 45 miles southeast of Fallon and 6 miles SSW of Middlegate in sections 4,5,8,9,28,32,33 of T15 &16N R35E, Nevada. The Property is divided into 2 non-contiguous claim blocks with the northern claim block being adjacent to Hill 6483 in the Windy Fault.
Access to the Windy Peak Property is from U.S. Highway 50, thence south via Highway 361 to an unmarked dirt road that heads west along the south side of an unnamed wash referred to as Windy Wash. The dirt road exits Highway 95 near the border of Sections 27 & 34. The Bell Mountain quadrangle (dated 1972) shows an older dirt road that follows the floor of the wash. About 2 miles along the dirt road, trenching and cutting of trails to access various portions of the Property have extensively disturbed the hill. The dirt road is in good condition, however the steeper trails near Windy Peak will require a 4-wheel-drive for access. There is no plant, equipment, water source nor power currently on site. Power could be provided by portable diesel-powered generators. Non potable water may be source able on site for drilling, mining and milling purposes.
The Property claims are held as unpatented federal land claims administered under the Department of Interior, BLM and Department of Agriculture, Forest Service (“USFS”) under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976. In order to acquire an unpatented mineral claim the land must be open to mineral entry. Federal law specifies that a claim must be located or “staked” and site boundaries be distinctly and clearly marked to be readily identifiable on the ground in addition to filing the appropriate state and or federal documentation such as Location Notice, Claim Map, Notice of Non-liability for Labor and Materials Furnished, Notice of Intent to Hold Mining Claims, Maintenance Fee Payment and fees to secure the claim. The State may also establish additional requirements regarding the manner in which mining claims and sites are located and recorded. An unpatented mining claim on U.S. government lands establishes a claim to the locatable minerals (also referred to as stakeable minerals) on the land and the right of possession solely for mining purposes. No title to the land passes to the claimant. If a proven economic mineral deposit is developed, provisions of federal mining laws permit owners of unpatented mining claims to patent (to obtain title to) the claim. The Property surface estate and mineral rights are federally owned and subject to BLM regulations. None of the Property claims have been legally surveyed. Although our legal access to unpatented Federal claims cannot be denied, staking or operating a mining claim does not provide the claim holder exclusive rights to the surface resources (unless a right was determined under Public Law 84-167), establish residency or block access to other users. Regulations managing the use and occupancy of the public lands for development of locatable mineral deposits by limiting such use or occupancy to that which is reasonably incident is found in 43 CFR 3715. These Regulations apply to public lands administered by the BLM.
The table below lists the Windy Peak Property claims located in Sections 4,5,8,9,28,32,33 of T15 &16N R35E, Nevada.
The Property claims were located and recorded along with the necessary payments being filed in March 2013. Annual maintenance fees of $155 per claim paid to the BLM and recording fees of approximately $15 per claim must be paid to the respective county on or before September 1 of each year to keep the claims in good standing, provided the filings are kept current these claims can be kept in perpetuity.
The Windy Peak Property Claim Map
Past Exploration in the Windy Peak Area
Fairview District
The Windy Peak area has been considered to be part of, or at least an extension of, the Fairview District, which, is located on Fairview Peak about 6 miles WNW of Hill 6483. Both areas are within the Fairview Peak caldera of Henry but their geochemical differences indicate they are not related.
Windy Peak
The only published information found regarding the Windy Peak area refers to a small leach pad at the Cye Cox prospect at Hill 6483. This exploration was located adjacent to but not on our northern claim block. According to historical reports, an initial 6 claims (Red Star) were staked by Cye Cox of Fallon from 1945 to 1969. Subsequent lessees staked an additional 79 Red Star claims from 1978 to 1979. Cye Cox together with Pete Erb and "Pine Nut" Forbush discovered high-grade gold on the south side of Hill 6483 in the Windy fault in 1970. The presence of old timbers near a mostly-covered hole at the western trench (about mile west of the Windy adit) indicates that they also did some work there. After further examination a plant with a 6-8" grizzly and trommel (21' x 30") was setup and operated.
At least 56 RC holes have been drilled on and around the Windy Peak claims area. The identifiable holes are vertical holes which is interesting because the primary target in the Windy area is bonanza grade veins in steep to vertical structures. In effect, the high-grade structurally hosted gold potential on the property has not been tested by previous drilling programs.
Geology of the Windy Peak Property Area
Review of late Tertiary epithermal gold-silver deposits in the northern Great Basin, revealed that most deposits are spatially and temporally related to two magmatic assemblages: bimodal basalt-rhyolite and western andesite. The Fairview district, including the Bell Mine, is related to a third, minor magmatic assemblage, the late Eocene to early Miocene caldera complexes of the interior andesite-rhyolite assemblage. This assemblage hosts the giant late-Oligocene Round Mountain deposit plus smaller deposits in the Atlanta, Fairview, Tuscarora, and Wonder mining districts. The youngest rocks in the interior andesite-rhyolite assemblage were erupted at about 19 Ma and are in the Fairview and Tonopah mining districts. Recent studies have shown that the magmatism associated with the interior andesite rhyolite assemblage had a close spatial and temporal association with crustal extension, and that these magmas were formed by partial mixing of mantle-derived basal with crustal melt.
Planned Exploration
The Company’s current objectives are to assess the Windy Peak geological merits to establish an exploration program and identify the potential for economically viable mineralization. The cost of this exploration plan has not yet been determined therefore estimated exploration expenditures are not available at this time. We recognize that Windy Peak is a grass roots exploration opportunity and there are currently no proven or probable reserves.
Item 3.