ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
We share the use of premises in Australia at Level 21, 500 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia from which our Australian subsidiaries carry on business. The Australian office space is taken on a non-exclusive basis, with no rent payable, but the usage of the premises is included in the charges that Setright Oil & Gas Pty Ltd., (an affiliate of the Company by virtue of common management, ownership and control) makes in respect to the administration of the Company.
Following implementation of our acquisition strategy we now hold interests in 14 Petroleum Exploration Permits granted by the Commonwealth of Australia. With one exception, they are held in joint venture with other parties.
Vulcan Sub-basin Interests, Territory of Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Australia (AC/P33, AC/P35 and AC/P39)
Geologically, AC/P33, AC/P35 and AC/P39 are located on the eastern margin of the Vulcan Sub-basin, a broad, deep and proven hydrocarbon-generative basin, one of a number of proven petroliferous sub-basins which together comprise the North West Shelf hydrocarbon province of Australia. The permits are within the Territory of Ashmore and Cartier Islands, an Australian offshore territory.
The Territory of the Ashmore and Cartier Islands ("the Territory") was ceded from Britain and accepted by the Commonwealth of Australia ("Commonwealth") in 1933. The responsibility for the administration of the Territory was transferred from the Northern Territory of Australia ("Northern Territory") to the Commonwealth when a level of self-government was instituted in the Northern Territory in 1978.
Petroleum extraction activities in the area within the Territory are administered on behalf of the Commonwealth by the Northern Territory Department of Mines and Energy through the Designated Authority protocol operating pursuant to the Offshore Petroleum and Greenhouse Storage Act 2006 (Commonwealth).
Commonwealth laws, laws of the Northern Territory and Ordinances made by the Governor-General make up the body of law generally applicable in the Territory.
The Territory comprises West, Middle and East Islands of Ashmore Reef, Cartier Island and the territorial sea generated by those islands. The islands are uninhabited, small, low and composed of coral and sand, with some grass cover.
The Territory is located on the outer edge of the continental shelf in the Indian Ocean approximately 320 km off Australia's north-west coast and 144 kilometres south of the Indonesian Island of Roti. The Jabiru and Challis oil fields are located within the Territory, as are numerous other oil and gas accumulations and occurrences.
We acquired our initial 20% interest in the Vulcan Sub-basin permits as a result of the acquisition of Alpha Oil & Natural Gas Pty Ltd ("Alpha") in 2006.
On May 15, 2006 Alpha agreed to farmout 5% of its 20% interest in each of the Vulcan Sub-basin Permits to National Gas Australia Pty Ltd ("NGA") (leaving Alpha with a 15% interest) in return for the acquisition and funding of Alpha's 20% share of the new Oliver 3D seismic survey of approximately 124 km(2) and the funding of the cost of reprocessing of approximately 2,800 km(2) of the existing Onnia 3D Seismic Survey data, relevant to all of AC/P33, AC/P35 and AC/P39. The cost of the Company's share of the Oliver survey and the Onnia reprocessing has thus been met entirely by NGA.
We have subsequently farmed out half of our interest in AC/P33 to Stuart Petroleum Limited ("Stuart") (see Oliver Joint Venture below), leaving Alpha with a 7.5% interest.
Our wholly owned subsidiary, Alpha, has established a wholly owned subsidiary named Vulcan Australia Pty Ltd ("Vulcan") and has transferred its interests in each of its Timor Sea permits, AC/P33, AC/P35 and AC/P39 to Vulcan. Another participant in the Vulcan Permits, Natural Gas Australia Pty Ltd, has transferred its interests to its wholly owned subsidiary Petrocorp Australia Pty Ltd.
In addition, the joint venture operating agreement, which previously governed joint venture operations in all three of the permits, has been replaced by new separate joint venture agreements for each permit. The new joint ventures are known as Oliver Joint Venture (AC/P33), Vulcan Joint Venture (AC/P35) and Nome Joint Venture (AC/P39).
Oliver Joint Venture (AC/P33)
Our wholly owned subsidiary, Vulcan, following farmout of drilling and development commitments to Stuart, (see below) now holds a 7.5% interest in the Oliver Joint Venture permit, AC/P33, in joint venture with Stuart (50%) now the designated operator, and our joint venture affiliates; Petrocorp Australia Pty Ltd ("Petrocorp") (12.5%), Natural Gas Corporation Pty Ltd (NGC) (15%) and Auralandia N.L. (Auralandia) (15%).
AC/P33 (granted July 6, 2004) includes the undeveloped Oliver oil and gas accumulation, drilled by the now plugged and abandoned Oliver-1 well. AC/P33 comprises five graticular blocks, totalling approximately 400 km(2) (98,800 acres). During the first three years of the initial 6-year term of permit AC/P33, the joint venture participants obtained a range of existing reports and open file seismic data and have mapped, interpreted and revised analyses and concepts for the area. The joint venture has carried out enhancement of existing seismic data around the Oliver feature and examined various techniques for potential to provide direct hydrocarbon indicators. As a result of the farmout to NGA, the joint venture has acquired 124 km(2) (acres) of new high quality enhanced parameter 3D seismic survey, known as the Oliver 3D Seismic Survey. The survey was conducted over the Oliver feature and part of its extension to the east. Processing of the new Oliver Seismic Survey and reprocessing of part of the immediately adjacent Onnia 3D Seismic Survey in the vicinity of the Oliver-1 well, in preparation for the proposed Oliver 2 exploration/appraisal well, has been concluded. The joint venture has elected to enter the second three years of the initial permit and the farminee, Stuart, plans to drill one exploration well prior to the end of 2009, and to perform further interpretational work at its cost. Active geological and geophysical evaluation of the permit continues.
Stuart's earn-in obligations will be satisfied by sole funding the drilling of an appraisal well on the Oliver feature, completion of engineering studies up to Final Investment Decision for development of an oilfield and sole funding the first $25 million of development expenditure. The first phase of development of the Oliver field - drilling the appraisal well, Oliver 2, and completing engineering studies - is expected cost $60 million and to be complete late in 2010.
The Oliver field, containing a column of oil, gas and condensate, was discovered by a BHP Petroleum operated consortium in 1988. The Oliver 1 well was drilled in 305 metres of water to a depth of 3,500 metres. The well encountered the column in the Plover Formation between 2,927 metres and 3,097 metres.
Stuart's interpretation of the recently acquired Oliver 3D seismic data over the Oliver field resulted in Stuart's estimated potential recoverable liquids in the range of 9.9 million barrels to 33 million barrels of oil and condensate with a mean joint venture volume of 19.3 million barrels. According to Stuart, these estimates have been independently reviewed and confirmed. They are not independently verified reserves, but are estimates only provided to the joint venture participants for preliminary planning and feasibility purposes.
Studies to identify economic development alternatives and to determine viability have been commenced by Stuart and are expected to be followed by the Oliver 2 appraisal well to confirm the size of the field. The semi-submersible drilling rig, Songa Venus, has been contracted by Stuart to drill this well at Stuart's cost in mid-2009. In the event of a successful outcome, further economic viability and development studies will then determine whether and how to best develop the field.
Equity participants in permit AC/P33 presently are:
% Stuart Petroleum Limited (Operator) 50.0 Natural Gas Corporation Pty Ltd 15.0 Auralandia NL 15.0 Petrocorp Australia Pty Ltd 12.5 Vulcan Australia Pty Ltd (AOGC subsidiary) 7.5
The Company is considering how it might meet future funding requirements of its subsidiary Vulcan, with respect to funding of any Oliver development. Discussions amongst the non-Stuart joint venture participants has focused on the concept of each of the participants, other than the operator Stuart and other than Auralandia, selling their interest in each of the Vulcan Sub-basin permits to Auralandia or another jointly sponsored company in return for an appropriate pro rate issue of shares. Auralandia has signified that it is open to proposals which would see it as the corporate vehicle for unifying 50% of the interests in this manner. The Company is investigating this concept and plans to participate, pending further investigations and finalization in an appropriate commercial arrangement. Capital would thus be required by the entity for further appraisal and development drilling and development of Oliver, but would relieve the Company of any direct cost commitment to any of the Vulcan Sub-basin permits (AC/P33, AC/P35 and AC/P39).
Vulcan Joint Venture (AC/P35)
AC/P35 (granted October 18, 2005) is located immediately to the north of AC/P33. It comprises 46 graticular blocks, totalling approximately 3,410 km(2) (842,645 acres). There have been five wells drilled in the area, with two having oil and gas indications, all of which were plugged and abandoned. During the first three years of the initial 6-year term of the AC/P35 permit, we have obtained a range of pertinent existing reports and open file seismic data. We have applied for a variation and suspension and extension of the permit for a period of twelve months. In the third permit year, we presently plan to shoot up to 250 km(2) of new 3D seismic survey. Should we so decide, we can elect to enter the second stage of three permit years of the initial permit term and, if warranted, drill one exploration well and perform further interpretational work. Geological evaluation of the permit is continuing. 1,750 km(2) of the previously acquired proprietary 3D seismic over AC/P35 known as the Onnia 3D Seismic Survey has been reprocessed. We are assessing the need for and possible locations of a further 3D seismic survey.
The participants in the Vulcan Joint Venture are:
% Auralandia NL (Operator) 30.0 Natural Gas Corporation Pty Ltd 30.0 Petrocorp Australia Pty Ltd 25.0 Vulcan Australia Pty Ltd 15.0
Nome Joint Venture (AC/P39)
AC/P39 (granted April 7, 2006) is located 600 km west of Darwin, immediately to the east of AC/P33 and AC/P35. It comprises 11 graticular blocks, totalling approximately 920 km(2) (2,273 acres). AC/P39 lies within 100 km of existing petroleum production facilities and along the eastern elevated flank of the Vulcan Sub-basin. There have been five wells drilled in the area, with two having oil and gas indications. In the first three years of the initial 6-year term of the AC/P39 permit, we have obtained a range of existing reports and open file seismic data. We requested a 12 month suspension and extension of Year 2 in order to complete the reprocessing of 920 km(2) Onnia 3D seismic survey within the permit. The re-processing has now been completed, but was delayed because of the manpower constraints of the contractor, PGS. In the third permit year, subject to maturing the current leads to drillable prospects, we presently plan to drill one exploration well. Geological evaluation of the permit is continuing, including the assessment of risk as to whether any leads are of sufficient quality to warrant the risk and cost of drilling.
The participants in the Nome Joint Venture are:
% Auralandia NL (Operator) 30.0 Natural Gas Corporation Pty Ltd 30.0 Petrocorp Australia Pty Ltd 25.0 Vulcan Australia Pty Ltd 15.0
BROWSE BASIN INTERESTS, OFFSHORE FROM WESTERN AUSTRALIA - WA-332-P, WA-333-P and WA-342-P
On April 12, 2006, we completed the acquisition of Alpha Oil & Natural Gas Pty Ltd ("Alpha"), a transaction entered into on July 1, 2004. The acquisition of Alpha was made in order to acquire a 20% interest in the Browse Joint Venture, being permits, WA-332-P, WA-333-P, WA-341-P and WA-342-P.
Following the entering into of the transaction, but prior to the agreement between being finalized, Alpha (with the approval of AOGC) sold its 20% interest in WA-341-P to a third party for an amount in excess of book value. The settlement funds received by Alpha were incorporated in funds available to AOGC, through this wholly owned subsidiary, following completion of the Alpha purchase.
The now remaining three permits of the Browse Joint Venture, WA-332-P, WA-333-P and WA-342-P are contiguous and are located offshore in the eastern Browse Basin. They cover a total area of 9,460 km(2) (2,336,620 acres).
The Browse Basin region is a major proven hydrocarbon area and it forms a part of the extensive series of continental margin sedimentary basins that, together, comprise the North West Shelf hydrocarbon province of Australia. The Browse Basin has been host to a series of major gas, gas condensate and oil discoveries which began with the 1971 discovery at Scott Reef-1. The Browse Basin is currently the focus for two proposals to establish new LNG export facilities; one by Woodside Energy Ltd in relation to the Torosa/Brecknock/Calliance complex and the other by Inpex Corporation in relation to the Ichthys complex. Two of the Browse Joint Venture permits are presently lightly explored. There is one well on the boundary of WA-332-P (Prudhoe-1), one well in WA-333-P (Rob Roy-1), and a total of fourteen wells in WA-342-P, mostly associated with the undeveloped Cornea oil and gas accumulation.
In the first three year term of the Permits, the Browse Joint Venture has obtained available open file reports and basic 2D and 3D seismic data acquired by the earlier efforts of previous explorers. This included approximately 1,100 km(2) of high quality 3D seismic known as the Cornea 3D survey which is held by the Browse Joint Venture. Approximately 1,000 km(2) of this 3D data set was reprocessed by the joint venture during the 2007 year. The 3D data set has been integrated with the acquisition and processing of the Braveheart 2D seismic survey. The Browse Joint Venture previously acquired the Braveheart seismic survey of approximately 1,949 line km of new 2D seismic survey over these Browse Joint venture permits. The Browse Joint Venture has elected to enter a second three year permit term in which it presently is planning for the drilling of Braveheart 1 in WA-333-P. Active geological and geophysical evaluation of all of the Browse Joint Venture Permits is continuing, with special studies having been carried out in respect to the undeveloped Cornea oil and gas accumulation (in WA-342-P) and the Braveheart project, which straddles both WA-332-P and WA-333-P.
Browse Joint Venture
The Browse Joint Venture, which comprises WA-332-P and WA-333-P, on March 19, 2008, applied for an 18-months suspension and extension of Year 5 of permit WA-332-P in order to acquire further new infill 2D seismic survey over potential leads in WA-332-P and to secure a drilling vessel. If granted, Year 5 of WA-332-P will end September 30, 2009.
On March 19, 2008, the Browse Joint Venture also applied for a 12-month suspension and extension of Year 5 of the WA-333-P permit in order to allow additional time for the drilling of the Braveheart-1 well in WA-333-P. The Joint Venture has entered into a letter of intent with a drilling vessel management company, as a result of which a well is expected to be drilled on the Braveheart feature in early 2010. If granted, Year-5 of WA-333-P will end on March 31, 2010. Further extensions may be necessary.
Our wholly owned subsidiary, Alpha, together with its joint venturers, entered into a farmout agreement with respect to WA-332-P, WA-333-P and WA-342-P ("Permits") with Gascorp Australia Pty Ltd ("Gascorp") whereby Gascorp has agreed to earn a 15% interest in each of the Permits in return for the obligation of Gascorp to expend $1,120,000 in acquiring approximately 490 line kilometres of new 2D seismic data in the Permits and in acquiring a drill site survey in order to determine a specific location to test the Braveheart prospect. The surveys provided coverage of leads within WA-332-P as well as assisting in the determination of the location of the Braveheart 1 well. As a result of this farmout, Alpha's interest in each of the three permits has reduced from 20% to 17%.
In addition to this farmout, the participants in each of the WA-332-P and WA-333-P Permits have elected to form new 100% owned subsidiary companies and have agreed to transfer their respective interests to such wholly owned subsidiaries. Alpha has incorporated Braveheart Oil & Gas Pty Ltd as a wholly owned subsidiary to which it has assigned its residual 17% interest in each of these Permits. These transactions have been submitted to the Designated Authority (Commonwealth of Australia) for approval.
Participants in the Browse Joint Venture presently are:
Braveheart Resources Pty Ltd (subsidiary of Exoil Limited) (Operator) 29.75% Braveheart Petroleum Pty Ltd (subsidiary of Batavia Oil & Gas Pty Ltd) 29.75% Browse Petroleum Pty Ltd (subsidiary of Gascorp Australia Pty Ltd) 15.00% Braveheart Oil & Gas Pty Ltd (subsidiary of Alpha) 17.00% Braveheart Energy Pty Ltd (subsidiary of Goldsborough Limited) 8.50%
The participants in the Browse Joint Venture have contracted to engage the services of Australian Drilling Associates Pty Ltd to provide project management services to support the conduct of drilling operations and to gain access to one drilling slot in a group sponsored multi-well program utilising the semi-submersible drilling rig, the Songa Venus. The drilling slot is to be used for the drilling of the Braveheart 1 well.
While each of the two permits of the Browse Joint Venture have been offered for farmout, alternatively, the participants are considering how they might meet the funding requirements for the drilling of a well or wells, should these farmout efforts not be successful. Discussions amongst the joint venture participants have focused on the formation of a special purpose Australian company to acquire the Browse Joint Venture permits in return for a pro rata issue of shares to each of the Browse Joint Venture participants. The concept is for this special purpose company to seek equity funding in Australia in order to meet the significant cost of any well or wells to be drilled in each of the Browse permits
Cornea Joint Venture
The Cornea Joint Venture comprises the interests held in WA-342-P, which is adjacent to WA-332-P and WA-333-P.
On October 22, 2007, the Browse Joint Venture lodged a request for a variation of the permit WA-342-P so that instead of drilling a well in Year-5 the permit would require geotechnical studies, while Year-6 of the permit would require the drilling of a well. If such variation of the permit is granted, then Year-6 of the permit would commence on November 28, 2009.
The joint venture continues to carry out extensive studies as to prospectivity of the known Cornea gas/oil accumulation.
Participants in the Cornea Joint Venture are:
Hawkestone Oil Pty Ltd ((subsidiary of Exoil Limited) (Operator) 29.75% Batavia Oil & Gas Pty Ltd 29.75% Browse Petroleum Pty Ltd(subsidiary of Gascorp Australia Pty Ltd) 15.00% Alpha Oil & Natural Gas Pty Ltd 17.00% Goldsborough Energy Pty Ltd 8.50%
BONAPARTE BASIN INTERESTS, OFFSHORE FROM THE NORTHERN TERRITORY - NT/P62, NT/P63, NT/P64, NT/P65, NT/P71 and NT/P72
National Gas Consortium
On April 12, 2006, we completed the acquisition of 100% of Nations Natural Gas Pty Ltd (Nations). The acquisition of Nations was entered into on September 10, 2004 and made in order to acquire a 30% interest in the initial four permits of the National Gas Consortium, being permits, NT/P62, NT/P63, NT/P64 and NT/P65 ("Timor Sea Permits"), located in the Australian sector of the Timor Sea, offshore from the Northern Territory.
The Timor Sea covers a huge area underlain by sedimentary basins with potential for new hydrocarbon discoveries. The region has a long history of exploration activity and discovery and has now become the focus for domestic and international petroleum exploration and development activities. There have been numerous oil, gas/condensate and gas discoveries to the north west in the region of the permits, including the Laminaria, Corallina and Bayu-Undan fields. The giant gas fields of Greater Sunrise, Evans Shoal, Caldita and Barossa are to the north and east of the permits. Recent Plover Formation discoveries have been made in the Heron-2 well and the Blackwood-1 well, in permit NT/P68 immediately north of NT/P63 and immediately south of NT/P65.
The Timor Sea is a major emerging petroleum province, with a developing emphasis in gas processing for the export market. Discoveries made over the past few years are expected to lead to the area providing substantial gas production and revenue, through value-added gas projects covering a range of gas to liquids processes and technologies.
On August 8, 2006, Nations, together with the other joint venturers in the National Gas Consortium were granted petroleum exploration permits NT/P71 and NT/P72 for an initial 6-year term. Permits NT/P71 and NT/P72, which cover a total area of approximately 17,380 km(2) (4,294,772 acres), are located in the Australian sector of the Timor Sea, and are held by the National Gas Consortium, which holds the contiguous NT/P62, NT/P63 and NT/P64 permits to the immediate west.
The National Gas Consortium now holds six permits aggregating approximately 32,255 km(2) (7,970,533 acres) namely, NT/P62, NT/P63, NT/P64, NT/P65, NT/ P71 and NT/P72, all within jurisdiction of Australia.
Nations on June 15, 2006, agreed to farmout 6% of its 30% interest in each of the Timor Sea Permits to NGA (leaving Nations with a net 24% interest) in return for the acquisition and funding of Nations 30% share of the new Sunshine 2D seismic survey (887 kms) and Kurrajong 2D seismic survey (3,291 km) which were acquired in November 2006.
Nations on June 16, 2008, agreed to a further farmout of a further 3% of its 24% interest in each of the Timor Sea Permits to NGA (leaving Nations with a net 21% interest) in return for further expenditure of AUD$1.6 million by NGA on Joint Venture exploration costs. The cost of the Company's share of the Sunshine and Kurrajong surveys has been met entirely by NGA.
The participants in the National Gas Consortium are:
% National Oil & Gas Pty Ltd (Operator) 24.5 Australian Natural Gas Pty Ltd 24.5 National Gas Australia Pty Ltd 30.0 Nations Natural Gas Pty Ltd 21.0
On November 16, 2007, the members of the National Gas Consortium applied for a 12-month extension of Year 4 of each of the permits NT/P62, NT/P63, NT/P64 and NT/P65 in order to complete the interpretation of the new Sunshine and Kurrajong 2D seismic data sets, in conjunction with interpretation of pre-existing 1,349 line km Jacaranda 2D seismic data set and 1,377 line km Halimeda 2D seismic survey data set, both of which have been reprocessed. If granted, then Year-4 of each of these permits would end on December 31, 2008.
The Timor Sea permits have been offered for farmout, with a number of international companies presently considering parts of or the whole of the acreage. In the meantime, the National Gas Consortium Joint Venture participants are considering methods of meeting the funding requirements for the drilling of a well or wells, should these farmout efforts not be successful. Discussions amongst the joint venture participants have focused on the formation or acquisition of a special purpose company to acquire the National Gas Consortium Joint Venture permits interests in return for a pro rata issue of shares to each of the joint venture participants. This special purpose public company would then seek equity funding in Australia in order to meet the significant cost of any well or wells to be drilled in the permits.
NT/P70 Joint Venture - Eastern Bonaparte Basin
On October 10, 2005, the Australian Government granted petroleum exploration permit NT/P70, for a 6-year term. The Company initially held a 100% interest in the permit and now holds an 80% interest as the result of farmout (see below).
NT/P70 covers an area of 7,370 km(2) (1,821,200 acres) and is located in the eastern Timor Sea, about 300 km north of Darwin, and 250 km northeast of the proposed Darwin to Bayu-Undan gas pipeline. The Greater Sunrise, Evans Shoal, Barossa and Caldita gas accumulations are located to the west and southwest of the NT/P70 permit area.
AOGC agreed on June 15, 2006, to farmout 20% of its 100% interest in NT/P70 to NGA in return for the acquisition and funding by NGA of the cost of a new 800 line km Crocodile 2D seismic survey, subsequently acquired in the NT/P70 permit. Subsequently AOGC has agreed to transfer it's 80% interest to it's wholly owned subsidiary Alpha Oil & Natural Gas Pty Ltd.
The equity participants in the NT/P70 Joint Venture are:
% Alpha Oil & Natural Gas Pty Ltd (Operator) 80.0 National Gas Australia Pty Ltd 20.0
The permit was designated as a "frontier area" by the Australian Government attracting an exploration incentive which allows immediate uplift to 150% tax deductibility on Australian Petroleum Resource Rent Tax ("PRRT") which is only payable provided certain levels of return from subsequent production are achieved.
We have obtained a range of pertinent existing reports and open file seismic data and, together with the newly acquired Crocodile 2D seismic data, have mapped, interpreted and revised analyses and concepts for the area. We are presently assessing a plan to shoot 300 km(2) of 3D seismic survey. Should we so decide, we can elect to enter the second three years of the initial permit term and drill one exploration well and perform further interpretational work. There have been no wells drilled in the permit.
The Warawi prospect and the Crocodile prospect are the major focus of our work in NT/P70.
The NT/P70 permit has been offered for farmout, with a number of international companies considering the acreage
NT/P73 - Stillwater Project
On March 27, 2007, the Australian Government granted to our subsidiary, Alpha, a petroleum exploration permit, NT/P73, for an initial 6-year term. Alpha holds a 100% interest in the permit. NT/P73 is located to the immediate south west of NT/P70 and covers an area of 6,815 km(2) (1,683,300 acres). The Barossa and Caldita gas accumulations are located to the west of the NT/P73 permit area.
In the first three years of the initial 6-year term of the NT/P73 permit we plan to obtain existing reports and open file seismic data and, with this data, to map, interpret and revise analyses and concepts for the area. We are contemplating the acquisition of up to 2,000 line km of 2D in the third year of the permit. Should we so decide, we can elect to enter the second three years of the initial permit term and drill one exploration well and perform further interpretational work. There have been no wells drilled in the permit area.
Our work to date has focused on the Stillwater feature of the NW corner of NT/P73. We have recently reached agreement with ConocoPhillips to acquire approximately 200 kms(2) of existing 3D data in the NW corner of NT/P73, most of which covers the highly interesting Stillwater feature, which sits en enchelon alongside the Caldita feature which is located in the adjacent permit held by ConocoPhillips and Santos.
The NT/P73 permit has been offered for farmout, with a number of international companies considering the acreage.
ITEM 3.