Item 2. Description of Properties.
We do not lease or own any real property for our corporate offices. We currently maintain our corporate office on a month-to-month basis at 3651 Lindell Road, Suite D165 Las Vegas, Nevada, 89103. Management believes that our office space is suitable for our current needs.
Bruner, Bruner Expansion and Vernal Properties
Map showing the location of our Bruner and Vernal properties located in Central Western Nevada.
Acquisition of Interests - Bruner, Bruner Expansion and Vernal Properties
Pursuant to a Property Option Agreement (“BV Agreement”), dated as of July 25, 2003, with MinQuest, Inc., a Nevada corporation (“MinQuest”), we acquired the option to earn a 100% interest in the Bruner and Vernal mineral exploration properties located in Nevada. Together, these two properties originally consisted of 28 unpatented mining claims on a total of 560 acres in the northwest trending Walker Lane located in western central Nevada. The Bruner position was subsequently expanded from 16 unpatented mining claims to 80 unpatented mining claims bringing the total at Bruner to approximately 1,653 acres. Any additional claims agreed by the Company to be staked by MinQuest within 2 miles from the existing perimeter of the Property boundaries shall form part of the BV Agreement.
In order to earn a 100% interest in these two properties, option payments totaling $92,500 and an additional $500,000 in exploration expenditures were required. All mining interests in the property are subject to MinQuest retaining a 3% royalty of the aggregate proceeds received by us from any smelter or other purchaser of any ores, concentrates, metals or other material of commercial value produced from the property, minus the cost of transportation of the ores, concentrates or metals, including related insurance, and smelting and refining charges, including penalties.
Pursuant to the BV Agreement, we have a one-time option to purchase up to 2% of MinQuest’s royalty interest at a rate of $1,000,000 for each 1%. We must exercise our option 90 days following completion of a bankable feasibility study of the Bruner and Vernal properties, which, as it relates to a mineral resource or reserve, is an evaluation of the economics for the extraction (mining), processing and marketing of a defined ore reserve that would justify financing from a banking or financing institution for putting the mine into production.
To date, the Company has paid the option payments totaling $92,500, and has accumulated approximately $ 625,070 and $77,950 of exploration expenditures on the Bruner and Vernal properties respectively. These expenditures have satisfied the requirements of the BV Agreement and 100% interest in these two properties have been transferred to Patriot, subject to MinQuest retaining a 3% royalty.
On April 1, 2009, the Company entered into a Property Option Agreement (the “AIV Agreement”) with American International Ventures Inc. (“AIV”), to acquire the exclusive option to an undivided right, title and interest in 28 patented Federal mining claims and millsites located in Nye County, Nevada. Simultaneous with the execution and delivery of the Agreement, the Company paid AIV $30,000. In order to earn its option in the Property, the Company must make annual property option payments each year on April 1 consisting of $35,000 in 2010, $40,000 in 2011, $45,000 in 2012, $50,000 in 2013, $55,000 in 2014, $60,000 in 2015, and $1,185,000 in 2016. Following which the Company shall be deemed to have exercised its option under the Agreement and shall be entitled to an undivided 100% right, title and interest in and to the Bruner Property Expansion subject to a 1.5% Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) royalty payable to AIV and a 2% NSR payable to the former Property owner. The 2% NSR royalty may be purchased by the Company for a total payment of $500,000 and 1% of AIV’s 1.5% NSR royalty can be purchased by the Company for an additional payment of $500,000 at any time up to 30 days after beginning mine construction. The claims optioned under the agreement with AIV are contiguous with the Company’s existing Bruner property claims and therefore are also subject to the terms and conditions of the original BV Agreement with MinQuest.
On April 16, 2010, the Company entered into an Assignment Agreement with its wholly owned subsidiary, Provex Resources, Inc., a Nevada corporation (“Provex”), to assign the exclusive option to an undivided right, title and interest in the Bruner, Bruner Expansion and Vernal Properies to Provex. Pursuant to the Agreement, Provex assumed the rights, and agreed to perform all of the duties and obligations, of the Company arising under the original property option agreements.
On May 28, 2010 Provex entered into an exclusive right and option agreement with Canamex Resources Corp. (“Canamex”) whereby Canamex may earn up to 75% undivided interest in the Bruner, and Bruner Expansion properties, herein after collectively referred to as (the “Bruner Properties”). Upon the completion of the terms of the Agreement by Optionee, and upon earning its’ initial interest, the parties have agreed to negotiate a definitive joint venture agreement in good faith which will supercede the current agreement
Bruner Properties
Description and Location of the Bruner Properties
The Bruner Property is located approximately 130 miles east-southeast of Reno, Nevada at the northern end of the Paradise Range. Access from Fallon, the closest town of any size, is by 50 miles of paved highway and 16 miles of gravel roads. There is no mining plant or equipment located within the property boundaries. Currently, there is no power or water supply to the mineral claims.
We hold the Bruner property via 80 unpatented mining claims (approximately 1,653 acres) and 28 patented claims (approximately 477 acres). Canamex has subsequently added new unpatented claims to the northern end of the Bruner Property which are now part of the aforementioned May 28, 2010 option agreement with Canamex and the area of interest. The Bruner claims presently do not have any identified mineral reserves.
Exploration History of the Bruner Properties
The Bruner mining district is underlain by a sequence of intermediate to felsic Tertiary volcanic rocks (which are quartz-rich rocks derived from volcanoes and deposited between two and sixty-five million years ago), including ash flow tuffs, tuffaceous sediments, and flows. A volcanic center, the origin of major volcanic activity, is thought to underlie the district, with associated silicic domes (a convex landform created by extruding quartz-rich volcanic rocks) and plugs (landform similar to a dome, but smaller) intruding the volcanic section. The exposed stratigraphic section measures over 2,500 feet in thickness. The “Duluth Tuff”, a variably crystal rich ash flow tuff, is the host for gold and silver mineralization. Flow banded silicic volcanics, volcanoclastics (coarse, unsorted sedimentary rock formed from volcanic rocks) and andesite underlie the tuff and flow-banded rhyolite overlies the host unit. Two generations of intrusive rocks have been described within the district. Ore in the Bruner district is hosted by vuggy, fractured, quartz-adularia (potassium-rich alteration mineral) veined and/or stockworked tuff. Mineralization is primarily fault controlled, although some disseminated values do occur.
The original operators at the Bruner Properties were varied. Prospecting at the property began in the early 1900’s and underground mining began in 1920. Mining on several of the veins located within the property occurred up to 1949 producing over 58,500 gold equivalent ounces. The average gold to silver ratio from the Penelas mine was 1:4.5 for recorded production from 1935 to 1942.
The 28 patented claims contain the Duluth set of workings on the south end of the claim group comprising over 1000 feet of workings in 3 shafts and numerous stopes. Past production from the Duluth is reported as $70,000 of gold and silver from 1935 to 1944. This amount is based on a gold price of $35 per ounce and a silver price averaging $0.43 per ounce. The Paymaster mine is located on the north end of the patented claim group. It has a 375-foot shaft with 2,000 feet of workings on three levels. The Paymaster has no recorded production.
The unpatented claims contain the Penelas workings with 1000 feet of shaft and 4,000 feet of crosscuts on nine levels. Past production from the Penelas is recorded at over 26,000 ounces of gold and 120,000 ounces of silver from 1935 to 1942. Other historic workings include the Bruner adit with over 1,000 feet of workings and several shafts, and the Derelict mine with a 300 foot shaft and small open pit.
Modern exploration of the Bruner Properties began in 1979 and included the following work:
In 1983, Kennecott Minerals Company drilled fifteen RC (reverse circulation drilling) holes on the property.
In 1988-1990, Newmont Exploration Ltd. drilled approximately 10 RC holes; conducted detailed geologic mapping (producing a plan map of the rock types, structure and alteration), geochemical surveys (which is sampling of rocks or soil and determination of the abundances of elements), air and ground magnetic surveys (recording variations in the earth’s magnetic field and plotting same), and ground radiometric surveys (a survey of radioactive materials on the land surface).
In 1990-1995, Miramar Mining Corp. (“Miramar”) drilled 5 RC holes and conducted BLEG (bulk leach extractable gold) sampling and air photo interpretation. BLEG sampling involves a large sample of soil or rock that is leached using cyanide to determine the mettalurgy and parameters required to recover the gold and silver content from the sample material. In their 1991 Annual Report, Miramar reported 82% extraction of gold in 56 days from a column test run on unagglomerated -3/8 inch particle size material from the historic resource area, with low cyanide consumption. The head grade was unreported.
In July 2003, members of our Board of Directors and geology team made an onsite inspection of the Bruner Properties. From this visit, an exploration plan was determined and a schedule to begin work on the properties was organized to commence in the month of September 2003. The Company completed an exploration program consisting of geologic mapping, surface geochemical sampling, a Global Positioning System (GPS) survey of grid based magnetic survey, drill holes and cultural features, and a CSMT geophysical survey (electrical, magnetic and other means used to detect features, which may be associated with mineral deposits) was also conducted. Such a survey measures the magnetic variations within the underlying rocks.
Since then, a ground magnetics survey and detailed mapping and rock sampling of the western portion of the claim block on the Bruner Properties has been completed. The rock sampling is a collection of a series of rock chips over a measured distance, which is then submitted for assays, a chemical analysis to determine the metallic content over the sampled interval. The magnetics indicate the presence of northwesterly and northerly trending faults under the pediment cover that may host gold mineralization. Faults, which are breaks in the rock along which the movement has taken place, are often the sites for the deposition of metallic rich fluids. A pediment cover is a broad, gently sloping surface at the base of a steeper slope. Geologic mapping of rocks exposed in the western portion of our claims shows several small quartz bearing structures trending northwest and dipping steeply to the northeast. These small structures are thought to be related to a much larger vein system, often filled with quartz, and contained within a fault or break in the rock (a fault-hosted vein system) under gravel cover in the broad valley south of the mapping. Approximately 1 square mile of ground magnetics was completed at Bruner. The survey was conducted on 50 meter spaced lines, running north-south, using a GPS controlled Geometrics magnetometer, which is the geophysical instrument used in collecting magnetic data with an attached GPS that allows the operator to more precisely determine the location of each station where the magnetic signature is taken.
The interpretation shows numerous northwest and north-south trending magnetic lows associated with faults. Magnetic lows are an occurrence that may be indicative of a destruction of magnetic minerals by later hydrothermal (hot water) fluids that have come up along these faults. These hydrothermal fluids may in turn have carried and deposited precious metals such as gold and/or silver. A much more continuous northwest trending feature that has not been drill tested is located to the southeast, under gravel cover (where there is no exposure of rock at the surface). Data were sufficiently encouraging that an expanded CSMT survey was conducted to trace these structures in the third dimension.
In October 2004, we received the approval of a Notice of Intent for Exploration Drilling, and an environmental bond filed with the Nevada office of the Bureau of Land Management. A total of 18 drill sites were located to target both extensions of the gold intercepts in previous drilling and in geophysical anomalies found by a CSMT survey. With the proper approvals in place, we began drilling on the Bruner Properties on December 20, 2004. This drilling program was completed in March 2005 at a total cost of approximately $153,800, with a total of 3,200 feet of reverse circulation (RC) drilling in 7 holes. The depths of the holes ranged from 300 to 750 feet. We have received assays for all holes and the results were encouraging enough that additional drilling was conducted.
Because of the favorable drilling results from the drilling program we began on December 20, 2004, we decided to conduct additional drill testing on the Bruner Properties, including both reverse circulation and core drilling. In April 2005, we filed an amended drilling plan with the Bureau of Land Management that allowed three fences of drill holes with the fences spaced 400 feet apart along the apparent trend of the mineralization. This program was completed in the fall of 2005 with 11 holes totaling 4,205 feet being drilled.
The Board of Directors approved a 2007 exploration budget of approximately $120,000 for the Bruner Properties. In November 2007, the Company drilled three holes at Bruner to test deeper targets within the gold-bearing tuffaceous host rocks. The holes were drilled using an RC drill rig and totaled 3,240 feet. The holes were spaced roughly 400 feet apart on a line running east-northeast. All holes were angled steeply to the north to cut projected, south-dipping shear zones. Drill hole B-18 and B-19 were drilled to a depth of 1,000 and B-20 was drilled 1,240 feet deep. All three holes contained intermittent gold at various depths.
The results show a distinct increase in gold grade from the southwest (B-18) to the northeast (B-20). Only hole B-20 contained significant gold grades over any significant width. Further drilling north and east of B-20 may be warranted to vector in on the strongest part of the gold system. The drill program confirmed that gold mineralization continues at depth and is hosted by tuffaceous rocks.
The compilation of patented claims has identified at least four viable drill targets separate from the Company’s original target. These targets include the Duluth, Penelas, Paymaster and Bruno which have seen moderate to intense drill programs in the past due to surface mineralization and alteration consistent with large precious metals systems located in other parts of the Great Basin.
In October 2011, a two phase gold-silver drilling program totaling approximately 9,150 meters (30,000 feet) in 57 drill holes was initiated. Phase I was designed to consist of 12 holes testing two target types: 1) high - grade veins that were mined historically the first half of the 20th century but largely ignored by exploration drilling in the second half of the century; and 2) the extension of the 385,000 ounce historical resource reported by Miramar Mining in 1993. This resource is not NI 43 - 101 compliant and the Company cannot currently verify the resource. The Phase I drilling results will be analyzed and compiled for finalization of the Phase two program, intended for the 2012 field season.
In November 2011 the Phase I exploration drilling program commenced at the Bruner Properties. In March 2012, the final geochemical results from this program were announced which consisted of 2,434 meters (7,985 feet) in 13 angled RC drill holes. Two of the first three holes drilled into the Penelas East Vein System intersected +10 g/t (+.292 oz/ton) gold. Drill hole B-1115 penetrated a vein nearly 400 feet below the surface and 400 feet south of the historic drill intercepts in BRU-085 and BRU-105.
In May 2012, column leach test work was initiated on a bulk sample from underground on the Bruner Properties. Approximately 650 kilograms (1500 lbs.) of minus 6-inch material collected from the Upper Adit at the Bruner gold-silver project were delivered to a metallurgical test facility which specializes in cyanidation tests for heap leaching. The final cyanide column leach results showed a +85% gold extraction in 83 days on the sample with +80% extractions in both -3 inch and -3/4 inch crush sizes in 40 days.
In May 2012, Phase II drilling was proposed to test the extensions to the high-grade gold-silver intersected in the Penelas East vein in drill hole B-1115. The drilling is intended to test the strike extension and the dip extension of the intercept in B-1115 between 30-60 meters (100-200 feet) along strike to the north and to the south and 30-60 meters (100- 200 feet) below the elevation of the intercept in B-1115 to evaluate the potential for continuity along strike and increased potential with depth per the epithermal vein model.
In August 2012 the first of 6 Reverse circulation (RC) drill holes for the Phase II drilling program, drill hole B-1201 intersected 360 feet of 0.119 oz/ton gold (Au) or (118 m of 4.08 grams per tonne (g/t) Au), delivering the best intercepts ever drilled to date at the project. In October 2012 we announced further assay results from hole B-1278C which intersected 172 feet (52.4 meters) averaging 0.064 opt (2.21 gpt) Au. The hole intersected two zones of gold mineralization: an upper zone of 52 feet at 188-240 feet grading 0.060 opt (15.85 meters of 2.07 gpt) Au, and a lower zone of 120 feet at 564-684 feet grading 0.066 opt (36.58 meters of 2.27 gpt) Au. The upper interval included a 4-ft. intercept grading 0.537 opt (18.4 gpt) Au and the lower zone included a 4-ft. interval grading 0.983 opt (33.7 gpt) Au. A total of sixteen holes are planned for this phase of drilling of the new discovery at Penelas East to test the continuity of this mineralization both to the north and the south.
In March 2013 a Reverse Circulation ("RC") drill program of 22,000 feet was announced and scheduled to commence at the Bruner Properties. The drilling phase will begin on the west side of the northern extension of the former producing July-Duluth mine sites and then move east to the Penelas East discovery area, where drilling in 2012 encountered a mineralized interval of 360 feet grading 0.119 ounces per ton (118.11 meters of 4.08 grams per tonne) gold (Au). Metallurgical test work is underway on drill samples from the Penelas East discovery deposit area with results to be reported shortly.
Vernal Property
Description and Location of the Vernal Property
The Vernal Property is located approximately 140 miles east-southeast of Reno, Nevada on the west side of the Shoshone Mountains. Access from Fallon, the closest town of any size, is by 50 miles of paved highway and 30 miles of gravel roads. We hold the property via 12 unpatented mining claims (approximately 248 acres).
Exploration History of the Vernal Property
Historical work includes numerous short adits constructed on the Vernal Property between 1907 and 1936. There appears to have been little or no mineral production.
The Vernal Property is underlain by a thick sequence of Tertiary age rhyolitic volcanic rocks including tuffs, flows and intrusives. A volcanic center is thought to underlie the district, with an intruding rhyolite plug dome (a domal feature formed by the extrusion of viscous quartz-rich volcanic rocks) thought to be closely related to mineralization encountered by the geologists of Amselco, the U.S. subsidiary of a British company, who explored the Vernal Property back in the 1980’s, and who in 1983 mapped, sampled and drilled the Vernal Property. Amselco has not been involved with the Vernal Property over the last 20 years and is not associated with our option on the Vernal Property or the exploration work we are doing there. A 225 foot wide zone of poorly outcropping quartz stockworks (a multi-directional quartz veinlet system) and larger veining trends exist northeast from the northern margin of the plug. The veining consists of chalcedony containing 1-5% pyrite. Clay alteration of the host volcanics is strong. Northwest trending veins are also present but very poorly exposed. Both directions carry gold values. Scattered vein float is found over the plug. The most significant gold values in rock chips come from veining in tuffaceous rocks north of the nearly east-west contact of the plug. This area has poor exposure, but sampling of old dumps and surface workings show an open-ended gold anomaly that measures 630 feet by 450 feet.
The Vernal claims presently do not have any mineral reserves. The property that is the subject of our mineral claims is undeveloped and does not contain any commercial scale open-pits. Numerous shallow underground excavations occur within the central portion of the property. No reported historic production is noted for the property. There is no mining plant or equipment located on the property that is the subject of the mineral claim. Currently, there is no power supply to the mineral claims. Our planned exploration program is exploratory in nature and no mineral reserves may ever be found. Although drill holes are present within the property boundary, there is no drilled resource on our claims.
In July 2003, members of our Board of Directors and geology team made an onsite inspection of the Vernal property. Mapping (the process of laying out a grid on the land for area identification where samples are taken) and sampling (the process of taking small quantities of soil and rock for analysis) have been completed. In March 2005, we initiated the process to secure the proper permits for trenching and geochemical sampling from the U.S. Forest Service.
Our exploration of the Vernal property to date has consisted of geologic mapping, trenching and rock chip geochemical sampling. The Board of Directors approved a budget of approximately $55,000 (including the refundable bond of $900) for the Vernal property. An exploration program was conducted in November, 2008. The program consisted of 200 feet of trenching, sampling and mapping, and opening, mapping and sampling of an underground workings consisting of approximately 275 feet of workings. The Company is currently evaluating the results of the program at the Vernal property.
Moss Property
Moss Property
The Moss Property consists of 104 unpatented claims and 15 patented claims located in the Oatman Mining District of Mohave County, Arizona. The Company acquired these claims in a series of transactions during fiscal 2004 and 2005.
Acquisition of Interests
Gintoff Claim
On November 14, 2003, the Company entered into a letter of intent to acquire a single patented claim from Gregory Gintoff. The total purchase price of $50,000 was made in two installments of $10,000 in December 2003 and $40,000 in February 2004.
MinQuest Claims
We hold the MinQuest claims via 104 unpatented mining claims that were acquired from MinQuest. On March 4, 2004 the Company signed a Letter Agreement (the “Agreement”) that earned it a 100% interest in these claims by paying MinQuest a one-time fee of $50,000. This $50,000 fee was paid on July 7, 2004. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement, MinQuest will retain a 3% NSR on any and all production derived from the unpatented mining claims listed under the Agreement and on public lands within 1 mile of MinQuest, Inc’s outside perimeter of the present claim boundary; a 1.0% NSR on patented claims with no other royalty within the property; and a 0.5% overriding NSR on all production within the property derived from patented claims with other royalty interests.
Williams Property
The property is comprised of six patented claims, which as a group, we call the Williams Property. These claims were held collectively by as many as 23 owners within an extended family who were represented by Barbara Williams, a realtor, and a member of this extended family, who put together the letter of intent and arranged for the signing of the agreement by the numerous owners. None of these owners, including Barbara Williams, has or has had any relationship or affiliation with us prior to the agreement for the Williams Property.
In October 2003, former Director, Robert Sibthorpe (who is a geologist by training), had evaluated the proposal for the purchase of the Williams Property. His recommendation was to visit the site, and if the visual inspection supported the information presented in the proposal, then an offer to purchase should be drawn up. In November 2003, the Company executed a letter of intent to purchase a 100% interest in Williams Property owned by the extended family. This property is unrelated to and separate from the MinQuest Claims. The sellers delivered to Patriot all information in their possession regarding the Williams Property.
In January 2004, Mr. Robert Coale P.E, current President and Director, visited the site to see the overall geological setting and occurrence of mineralization and evaluated the drilling program proposed by MinQuest. At that time, the metallurgical data and reports that had been collected from the sellers were reviewed. Mr. Coale’s analysis revealed that reagent (liquid chemicals used for leaching) consumptions are acceptable and deleterious compounds (minerals present in the ore that would be difficult to work with) were not apparent. He recommended bulk sampling at a selected location in the future once the definition of the ore body was further advanced through drilling. On May 31, 2004, Robert Sibthorpe presented his report to Management with a summary of the property, a review of a draft budget and a layout of the drilling program planned for the property.
The drilling was conducted throughout the spring and early summer of 2004, and in June 2004, Mr. Sibthorpe presented a report to Management incorporating the results of the drill program which encouraged the Company to pursue the project.
On February 19, 2004, the Company executed a formal agreement to purchase the Williams Property for $350,000. On November 11, 2004, the purchase was completed and the Company now owns 100% interest in the Williams Property.
Greenwood Claim
On January 18, 2005, the Company acquired a single patented claim from a group of individuals represented by an escrow agent, for $150,000.
Martinez Claims
The Company acquired five patented claims from Ramon and Edna Martinez for a total of $150,000. The Company made one payment of $75,000 on November 8, 2004, and made the final payment of $75,000 on February 14, 2005.
Ruth and Rattan Claims
On January 18, 2005, the Company acquired two patented claims known as the Ruth and Rattan claims for a single payment of $25,000.
Description and Location of the Moss Property
The Moss Property is located in Mohave County, Arizona in the historic Oatman District, and is located some 5 miles northwest of the town of Oatman, with Kingman, Arizona to the east, Laughlin, Nevada to the west and Las Vegas, Nevada to the north. Access is via paved and gravel roads from Bullhead City.
Exploration History of the Moss Property
Discovered in 1864, the Moss Mine was the first gold discovery made in the Oatman District. Historical records show that the Oatman District produced up to two million ounces of gold mostly from underground mines. The Moss Property contains the site of the former Moss Mine. The Moss Mine reportedly produced high-grade gold values of $114,000 from two tons of ore at $20 per ounce of gold. A reported $240,000 of gold and silver were produced from the Moss property before 1880. The mine was worked intermittently through the 1930’s but produced only minor amounts of gold after the initial bonanza grades. The mine lay idle until the early 1980’s when a number of mining companies explored the district. These companies included Billiton Minerals, Magma Copper, Golconda Resources and Addwest Minerals. The most significant historic mining at Moss Mine occurred on narrow veins that trend sub-parallel to the Moss Mine vein and dip steeply to the north. These veins should intersect the Moss Mine vein at depth. The project area is underlain by Tertiary quartz monzonite (a coarsely crystalline rock composed primarily of the minerals quartz, plagioclase and orthoclase) intruding tertiary volcanics. Precambrian basement rocks underlie the volcanics. The veins consist of quartz-calcite and lesser adularia. The principal vein is up to 45 feet thick and can be followed on surface for over 5,000 feet. The hanging wall commonly has several tens of feet of stockwork veining. Gold values are somewhat erratic but appear to be highest in the thicker and deeper parts of the vein explored to date.
The Company’s initial exploration of the Moss Property has consisted of geologic mapping, vein geochemical sampling and drill testing of the identified veins. Numerous drill holes from past drilling programs, combined with sampling of underground workings within the patented mining claims, have culminated in a pre-feasibility study based on drill results from pre-1992 exploration.
In the Spring of 2004, the Company commenced Phase 1 drilling at the Moss Property. By the year end, a total of 36 holes were drilled totaling 8,807 feet. Thirty holes were drilled on the Gintoff Claim on the Moss Property, and six holes were drilled on one of the adjacent parcels of land. The easternmost section of the Property, which was mostly untested by drilling, was drilled with thirty reverse circulation holes. This allowed accurate cross-sections to be made for this area. The coverage on this section is generally two or three holes on 100 foot sections testing grades and widths from 50-250 feet down dip. In the western area, limited confirmation drilling was carried out and the results obtained were generally in line with the values obtained by previous operators. Geological information obtained may now provide a structural explanation for the lack of success obtained here to date by previous operators. A study of all drilling results through 2004 at the Moss Property indicated a tendency for total gold content to increase with intercept depth. Roughly 60% of the deeper holes have better intercepts than shallow holes.
In April 2005, the Company initiated an expanded Phase II drilling program to test for possible high-grade (0.30 ounces per ton or above) down-dip extensions of the Moss vein. The program originally included 10-15 holes ranging from 500 to 1300 feet for a total of approximately 12,000 feet of reverse circulation (RC) drilling. The budget for this program was $643,700. The first portion of this expanded drilling program was expected to be completed by the fall of 2005, however, after eight holes were attempted, drilling was halted because of inadequate capabilities of the drill rig to penetrate the granites. The remainder of the program was completed when the Company completed 6 core holes from November 2006 to February 2007 for a total amount drilled of 3,917 feet. The exploration program failed to find higher grades but it did show that the vein system continues to at least 800 feet below the surface and appears to be thickening.
In the spring of 2008, the Company submitted core samples to a laboratory where leach testing was conducted. Leaching was conducted in both bench scale (Bottle rolls) and in columns using crushed ore as the feed sample. Three column leach tests at 3 different crush sizes were completed on the Moss drilling samples. They were leached for 120 days. The fine crush of ¼ inch had 66% of the gold and 42% of the silver recovered in 120 days. The recovery curve is still not flat at the end of 120 days indicating additional gold/silver could be recovered. The recoveries are already near the 70% gold and 50% silver that is average for the industry. The 1 inch crush column recovered 39% of the gold and 14% of the silver after 120 days, but the leach curve again indicates no significant decrease in percent recovery by month indicating that greater recoveries may be obtained over longer periods of time.
Using the column leach data obtained from the testing program completed in April 2008 as well as additional information, the Company may engage an outside firm to conduct a preliminary economic analysis that will evaluate the overall value of the property considering metallurgical recovery, volume and gold grade of mineralized rock, capital and operating costs, and other factors. This information would be used to define additional work needed to enhance the value of the property.
In May 2009, the Board of Directors approved a $200,000 Phase III exploration budget for the Moss Property. A program of six or seven core holes was planned to test the down-dip extension of the Moss vein system. Total drilling footage was estimated at 3,000 feet. The drilling tested approximately 2,000 feet of strike length of the vein. The goal of this program was to further define the trend and depth of mineralization as well as provide additional metallurgical material for column leach tests.
In January 2010, the Company engaged Mr. Paul D. Noland, a registered professional geologist, to conduct an independent resource study. The report concluded that the Moss Property hosts a drill indicated gold-silver estimate and requires systematic in-fill and down-dip drilling to be placed into a final reserve category. No economic or mining feasibility parameters were applied however, a cursory examination of several sections in the heart of the resource area suggests that the entire resource (Main Zone and Hanging wall Zone) may be exploited by an open pit with a stripping ratio of between 3:1 and 4:1, and average pit wall slope of 45 degrees. This estimate was determined using the assumption that the deposit will be an open pit, bulk minable, heap leach mine. To keep mining and grade control cost minimal, sub-cut off grade material within the boundary of the resource was allowed to dilute the final grade.
The likelihood of finding additional bulk minable ore on the property is considered very good. Patriot Gold geologists have suggested the likelihood of main zone mineralization continuing at depth in previous reports. The main body of mineralization appears to widen to the west along strike, but the grade decreases. However, with the lower grades needed for an open pit, heap leachable deposit, this material is now part of the resource. This means the deposit is open-ended to the west. Much of the Main Zone remains untested down dip. Continued drill evaluation of down-dip and strike extensions is recommended.
In March 2010, Patriot Gold engaged an outside firm to initiate a series of metallurgical tests to focus on the amenability of the Moss deposit to heap leaching gold/silver recovery. Core from Moss was tested in four column leach tests with crush sizes up to 2 inches. The crushed ore was leached in 5 feet high columns for a minimum of 200 days. The tests results determined maximum obtainable gold and silver recoveries from the sample material using leaching as well as the leach times needed for maximum recovery.
Moss Property Option Agreement
On February 28, 2011, the Company entered into an Exploration and Option to Enter Joint Venture Agreement (the “Moss Agreement”), with Idaho State Gold Company, LLC, (“ISGC”) whereby the Company granted the option and right to earn a vested seventy percent (70%) interest in the property and the right and option to form a joint venture for the management and ownership of the properties called the Moss Mine Property, Mohave County, Arizona. Pursuant to the Moss Agreement, ISGC paid US $500,000 upon execution, and must spend an aggregate total of US $8 million on exploration and related expenditures over the next five years and subsequent to exercise of the earn-in, ISGC and Patriot Gold will form a 70/30 joint venture. Under this agreement financing of future work on the property would be on a proportional basis under the direction of a management committee with voting rights proportional to ownership percentage. Either party may be diluted on the basis of a standard formula if they do not contribute to the planned programs. If either party is diluted below 10 percent, their interest will convert to a three percent NSR (net smelter return) royalty. An existing 3-3.5 percent NSR exists on the Moss Mine Property.
In March, 2011, ISGC transferred its rights to the Exploration and Option Agreement dated February 28, 2011, to Northern Vertex Mining Corp. (“Northern Vertex”).
Shortly thereafter, drilling equipment and personnel were mobilized to the site to take additional core and reverse circulation samples. The purpose of its Phase I drilling campaign was to correlate and corroborate the results of previous work and to provide step-out drilling to further define the limits of the deposit.
In April 2011, an additional 144 claims adjacent to and contiguous to the Moss Property were staked. As per the Moss Agreement, any claims staked by either party within one mile of the claim boundaries are subject to the terms of the original agreement.
Through July 2011, 15 drill holes by both reverse-circulation (RC) and coring techniques were completed as part of the Phase I Moss Property drilling program. The purpose of these holes was to evaluate and test the extensions of the mineralized zone as well as to confirm the results of prior drilling and exploration work. We announced the findings from the results received from the drilling which demonstrate the thicknesses and grades encountered are compatible with historical drill results where 30 to 50 m intervals of 1+ gram gold.
Phase I Drilling Highlights
* AuEq (gpt) = Au (gpt) + 1/40th Ag (gpt). gpt = grams / metric tonne. Please visit www.northernvertex.com/extras/drillresults.pdf for complete drill results and estimates results.
In October 2011, a National Instrument 43-101 compliant Independent Resource Calculation was completed by Scott E. Wilson Consulting.
In February 2012, we announced Phase II results of the Moss Property for the first 18 holes of the planned 20,000 foot (6500 meter) in-fill drill and resource expansion program. It was reported that all five of the Phase II infill holes, AR124, 125, 127, 128 and 133 were successful, with each hole intersecting 24+ meter widths of mineralized material. The significant intersections returned from Phase II drilling are consistent with results from our Phase I drill program. Importantly, they demonstrate the consistent internal distribution of gold we’ve come to expect from the Moss gold-silver system.
Highlights from the first 18 holes of Phase II Drilling - Moss Property
Hole AR 121: 0.51+ gpt Gold Eqv over 84+ meters including 2.13 gpt Gold Eqv over 7.6 m
Hole AR 123: 0.52+ gpt Gold Eqv over 22+ meters including 0.89 gpt Gold Eqv over 6.1 m
Hole AR 124: 1.45+ gpt Gold Eqv over 24+ meters including 2.27 gpt Gold Eqv over 13.7 m
Hole AR-128: 0.75+ gpt Gold Eqv over 57+ meters including 1.46 gpt Gold Eqv over 15.2 m
Hole AR 136: 19.39 gpt Gold Eqv over 1.52 meters
In May 2012 we reported further successful results from drilling core as the final part of the Phase II infill drill and resource expansion program. This completed drill results for all 41 holes in the current drilling program: 18 RC (reverse circulation) drill holes and 23 diamond drill (core) holes.
Highlights from core holes 19 through 41 are as in the table below:
* AuEq (gpt) = Au (gpt) + 1/40th Ag (gpt)
*gpt = grams / metric tonne
The update identified that the gold/silver mineralized structure now spans 6,000 ft on strike, remaining open to the West, East and at depth. High-grade feeder veins were intersected to the south and are believed to be associated with historic mining activity dating back to the early 1900's. We continue to encounter multi-meter, 1+ gpt Gold Eqv intervals and multi-gram hot spots, contained within 40+ meter intersections, running well above internal cut-off grades.
In July 2012 we reported on channel samples taken underground near the vicinity of the Allen Shaft at the Moss Property. The sampling taken at five foot intervals across the roof of drifts and cross-cuts on the -60 level consistently shows 1.5+ gpt gold equivalent grades returned, further demonstrating the remarkable uniformity of the Moss stockwork vein Gold-Silver system both on strike and at depth. The main drift east averaged 4.73 gpt gold equivalent over 6.1m and stopped in 7.58 gpt gold equivalent mineralization.
Underground sampling results are provided below:
* AuEq (gpt) = Au (gpt) + 1/40th Ag(gpt)
*gpt = grams / metric tonne
In October 2012, we announced plans to commence a resource definition drill program to expand the parameters of a potential starter pit at the Moss Property. The program would focus on two central hills on patented (private) ground within the property where mineralization is exposed at the surface. Drilling is designed to assist the technical team in the preliminary design and modeling of a starter pit in the central area of the mineralized gold-silver corridor. The upcoming drill program is also expected to allow the construction of a mine plan and mine design as required by Arizona Dept. of Environmental Quality (AZ DEQ) for an Aquifer Protection Permit (APP).
In November 2012, we provided a comprehensive update on exploration and development plans for the Moss Property. Some key highlights of the update were as summarized below:
·
Additional resource definition drill program currently underway to increase resources adjacent to proposed pits and for data use in mine design and planning.
·
Low strip ratio in initial mining areas possible.
·
Amenable to low cost, heap leach, open pit mining.
·
Major stockwork vein system outcropping at surface for 5,000 feet.
·
Metallurgical test-work underway.
·
3 Phase Mine Development Plan to include:
o
Application for Aquifer Protection Permit for 90,000 tonne Pilot Phase I quarry/leach pad will be submitted to Arizona Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) by month end.
o
Phase II production target, 5,000 tpd.
o
Phase III production target 10,000 tpd.
The 3 Phase Mine Development Plan is designed to sequentially progress the project from conceptual design and laboratory test work to pilot plant testing in the field and, if this is successful, to secure financing and permitting approval for building a 5000 tonnes per day mine initially and, if this is successful, then move to 10,000 tonnes per day ultimately. The mine, should it proceed to production, will be a classic heap leach operation.
The business plan has been specifically designed to take advantage of the natural attributes of the Moss deposit while minimizing the capital required to get into production and minimizing the lead time in doing so, thereby reducing project development risk and capital risk. The immediate goal is the completion of a Preliminary Economic Assessment (PEA) which will incorporate mine, processing and heap leach designs. This will also include estimates of capital and operating costs and pre-tax cash flows for Phases I and II. A scoping level analysis will be subsequently prepared for Phase III.
Phase I is a pilot plant operation with operations expected to commence mid 2013. Phase II operations are expected to commence in early 2014 at a rate of 5,000 tpd. Phase III operations are expected to commence in 2017 at a rate of 10,000 tpd. Our exploration partner has completed a Preliminary Economic Assessment (PEA) of the Moss Project using these numbers as the basis. A Bankable Feasibility Study is also now underway and expected to be completed in early 2014. Please refer to the Patriot Gold Corp. website at www.patriotgoldcorp.com for further information.
Item 3.