Item 2. Properties.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
UIL Holdings' continuing capital expenditure program for 2001 through 2005 is presently estimated at $292.7 million, excluding UI's allowance for funds used during construction. See PART II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (L), Commitments and Contingencies."
THE UNITED ILLUMINATING COMPANY
GENERATING FACILITIES
The electric generating capability of UI as of December 31, 2000, based on summer ratings of the generating units, was as follows:
(1) Represents UI's 3.685% ownership share of total net capability. (2) Represents UI's 17.5% ownership and leasehold share of total net capability. In August 1990, UI sold to and leased back from an owner trust established for the benefit of an institutional investor a portion of UI's 17.5% ownership interest in this unit. This portion of the unit is subject to the lien of a first mortgage granted by the owner trustee.
UI is in the process of selling all of its interests in Millstone Unit 3 and Seabrook Unit 1, in compliance with Connecticut's Restructuring Act. See PART II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (C), Rate-Regulated Regulatory Proceedings."
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PLANT
The transmission lines of UI consist of approximately 102 circuit miles of overhead lines and approximately 17 circuit miles of underground lines, all operated at 345 KV or 115 KV and located within or immediately adjacent to the territory served by UI. These transmission lines interconnect electric generation facilities in Bridgeport and New Haven and are part of the New England transmission grid through connections with the transmission lines of The Connecticut Light and Power Company. A major portion of UI's transmission lines is constructed on railroad
- 8 -
right-of-way pursuant to two Transmission Line Agreements. One of the Agreements expired in May 2000 and UI expects to extend this Agreement. The other Agreement has been extended to May 2040.
UI owns and operates 25 bulk electric supply substations with a capacity of 1,756,300 KVA and 32 distribution substations with a capacity of 154,770 KVA. UI has 3,170 pole-line miles of overhead distribution lines and 130 conduit-bank miles of underground distribution lines.
See PART II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (L), Commitments and Contingencies - Capital Expenditure Program" concerning the estimated cost of additions to UI's transmission and distribution facilities.
NUCLEAR GENERATION
Seabrook Unit 1 is a nuclear generating unit located in Seabrook, New Hampshire, that is jointly owned by UI and ten other New England electric utility entities. Millstone Unit 3 is a nuclear generating unit located in Waterford, Connecticut, that is jointly owned by UI and twelve other New England electric utility entities. UI holds ownership and leasehold interests totalling 17.5% (203.18 megawatts) in Seabrook Unit 1, and a 3.685% (42.21 megawatts) ownership interest in Millstone Unit 3. UI also owns 9.5% of the common stock of Connecticut Yankee, and was entitled to an equivalent percentage (53.21 megawatts) of the generating capability of the Connecticut Yankee Unit prior to its retirement from commercial operation on December 4, 1996.
Seabrook Unit 1 commenced commercial operation in June of 1990, pursuant to an operating license issued by the NRC, which will expire in 2026. It is jointly owned by eleven New England electric utility entities, including UI, and is operated by a service company subsidiary of Northeast Utilities (NU). Through December 31, 2000, Seabrook Unit 1 has operated at a lifetime capacity factor of 80.3%.
Millstone Unit 3 commenced commercial operation in April of 1986, pursuant to a 40-year operating license issued by the NRC. It is jointly owned by thirteen New England electric utility entities, including UI, and is operated by another service company subsidiary of NU. Through December 31, 2000, Millstone Unit 3 has operated at a lifetime capacity factor of 63.3%.
UI is in the process of selling all of its interests in Millstone Unit 3 and Seabrook Unit 1, in compliance with Connecticut's Restructuring Act. See PART II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (C), Rate-Regulated Regulatory Proceedings."
The Connecticut Yankee Unit commenced commercial operation in January of 1968, pursuant to a 40-year operating license issued by the NRC. It is owned, through ownership of Connecticut Yankee's common stock, by ten New England electric utilities, including UI. In July of 1996, the Connecticut Yankee Unit was taken out of service following an engineering evaluation, and an economic study by the owners, comparing the costs of continuing to operate the Connecticut Yankee Unit over the remaining period of its operating license to the costs of shutting down the unit permanently and incurring replacement power costs for the same period, resulted in a decision, in December of 1996, by the Board of Directors of Connecticut Yankee to retire the Connecticut Yankee Unit from commercial operation.
The power purchase contract under which UI purchased its 9.5% entitlement to the Connecticut Yankee Unit's power output permits Connecticut Yankee to recover 9.5% of all of its costs from UI. In December of 1996, Connecticut Yankee filed decommissioning cost estimates and amendments to the power contracts with its owners with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Based on regulatory precedent, this filing requested confirmation that Connecticut Yankee will continue to collect from its owners its decommissioning costs, the unrecovered investment in the Connecticut Yankee Unit and other costs associated with the permanent shutdown of the Connecticut Yankee Unit. On April 7, 2000, Connecticut Yankee reached a settlement agreement with the Connecticut Department of Public Utility Control (DPUC) and the Connecticut Office of Consumer Counsel (two of the intervenors in the FERC proceeding). This agreement was submitted to the FERC, which approved it in all respects on July 26, 2000; and it became effective on August 1, 2000. The agreement allows Connecticut Yankee to earn a return on equity of 6% and
- 9 -
stipulates a new decommissioning cost estimate for the Connecticut Yankee Unit for purposes of FERC-approved decommissioning cost collections by Connecticut Yankee through the power contracts with the unit's owners.
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS
Seabrook Unit 1, Millstone Unit 3 and the Connecticut Yankee Unit are each subject to the licensing requirements and jurisdiction of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and to a variety of other state and federal requirements.
The NRC regularly conducts generic reviews of numerous technical issues, ranging from seismic design to education and fitness for duty requirements for licensed plant operators. The outcome of reviews that are currently pending, and the ways in which the nuclear generating units in which UI has interests may be affected by these reviews, cannot be determined; and the cost of complying with any new requirements that might result from the reviews cannot be estimated. However, such costs could be substantial.
Additional capital expenditures and increased operating costs for nuclear generating units may result from modifications of these facilities or their operating procedures required by the NRC, or from actions taken by other joint owners or companies having entitlements in the units. Some equipment modifications have required and may in the future require shutdowns or deratings of generating units that would not otherwise be necessary and that result in additional costs. The amounts of additional capital expenditures and increased costs cannot now be predicted, but they have been and may in the future be substantial.
NUCLEAR FUEL
Generally, the supply of fuel for nuclear generating units involves the mining and milling of uranium ore to uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, enrichment of that gas and fabrication of the enriched hexafluoride into usable fuel assemblies.
After a region (approximately 1/3 to 1/2 of the nuclear fuel assemblies in the reactor at any time) of spent fuel is removed from a nuclear reactor, it is placed in temporary storage in a spent fuel pool at the nuclear station for cooling and ultimately is expected to be transported to a permanent storage site, which has yet to be determined. See PART II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (M), Nuclear Fuel Disposal and Nuclear Plant Decommissioning. "
Based on information furnished by the utility responsible for the operation of the units in which UI is participating, there are outstanding contracts that cover uranium concentrate purchases for Millstone Unit 3 and Seabrook Unit 1 through 2003. In addition, there are outstanding contracts, to the extent indicated below, for conversion, enrichment and fabrication services for these units extending through the following years:
CONVERSION TO HEXAFLUORIDE ENRICHMENT FABRICATION ------------- ---------- -----------
Millstone Unit 3 2003 2002 2008 Seabrook Unit 1 2003 2007 2008
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
The Price-Anderson Act, currently extended through August 1, 2002, limits public liability resulting from a single incident at a nuclear power plant. The first $200 million of liability coverage is provided by purchasing the maximum amount of commercially available insurance. Additional liability coverage will be provided by an assessment of up to $83.9 million per incident, levied on each of the nuclear units licensed to operate in the United States, subject to a maximum assessment of $10 million per incident per nuclear unit in any year. In addition, if the sum of all public liability claims and legal costs resulting from any nuclear incident exceeds the maximum amount of financial protection, each reactor operator can be assessed an additional 5% of $83.9 million, or $4.2 million. The maximum assessment is adjusted at least every five years to reflect the impact of inflation. With respect to each of the two
- 10 -
operating nuclear generating units in which UI has an interest, UI will be obligated to pay its ownership and/or leasehold share of any statutory assessment resulting from a nuclear incident at any nuclear generating unit. Based on its interests in these nuclear generating units, UI estimates its maximum liability would be $17.8 million per incident. However, any assessment would be limited to $2.1 million per incident per year.
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission requires each operating nuclear generating unit to obtain property insurance coverage in a minimum amount of $1.06 billion and to establish a system of prioritized use of the insurance proceeds in the event of a nuclear incident. The system requires that the first $1.06 billion of insurance proceeds be used to stabilize the nuclear reactor to prevent any significant risk to public health and safety and then for decontamination and cleanup operations. Only following completion of these tasks would the balance, if any, of the segregated insurance proceeds become available to the unit's owners. For each of the two operating nuclear generating units in which UI has an interest, UI is required to pay its ownership and/or leasehold share of the cost of purchasing such insurance. Although each of these units has purchased $2.75 billion of property insurance coverage, representing the limits of coverage currently available from conventional nuclear insurance pools, the cost of a nuclear incident could exceed available insurance proceeds. Under those circumstances, the nuclear insurance pools that provide this coverage may levy assessments against the insured owner companies if pool losses exceed the accumulated funds available to the pool. The maximum potential assessments against UI with respect to losses occurring during current policy years are approximately $2.4 million.
WASTE DISPOSAL AND DECOMMISSIONING
See PART II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (M), Nuclear Fuel Disposal and Nuclear Plant Decommissioning" regarding the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level and low-level radioactive wastes in connection with the operation and decommissioning of Seabrook Unit 1, Millstone Unit 3 and the Connecticut Yankee Unit.
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
The National Environmental Policy Act requires that detailed statements of the environmental effect of UI's facilities be prepared in connection with the issuance of various federal permits and licenses, some of which are described below. Federal agencies are required by that Act to make an independent environmental evaluation of the facilities as part of their actions during proceedings with respect to these permits and licenses.
Under the federal Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has issued regulations that control the use and disposal of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). PCBs had been widely used as insulating fluids in many electric utility transformers and capacitors manufactured before TSCA prohibited any further manufacture of such PCB equipment. Fluids with a concentration of PCBs higher than 500 parts per million and materials (such as electrical capacitors) that contain such fluids must be disposed of through burning in high temperature incinerators approved by the EPA. Solid wastes containing PCBs must be disposed of in either secure chemical waste landfills or in high-efficiency incinerators. In response to EPA regulations, UI has phased out the use of certain PCB capacitors and has tested all UI-owned transformers located inside customer-owned buildings and replaced all transformers found to have fluids with detectable levels of PCBs (higher than 1 part per million) with transformers that have no detectable PCBs. Presently, no transformers having fluids with levels of PCBs higher than 500 parts per million are known by UI to remain in service in its system, except at one generating station. Compliance with TSCA regulations has necessitated substantial capital and operational expenditures by UI, and such expenditures may continue to be required in the future, although their magnitude cannot now be estimated.
Under the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), the generation, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous wastes are subject to regulations adopted by the EPA. Connecticut has adopted state regulations that parallel RCRA regulations but are more stringent in some respects. UI has complied with the notification and application requirements of present regulations, and the procedures by which UI handles, stores, treats and disposes of hazardous waste products have been revised, where necessary, to comply with these regulations.
UI has sold its Bridgeport Harbor Station and New Haven Harbor Station generating plants in compliance with Connecticut's electric utility industry restructuring legislation. Environmental assessments performed in connection
- 11 -
with the marketing of these plants indicated that substantial remediation expenditures will be required in order to bring the plant sites into compliance with applicable Connecticut minimum standards following their sale. The purchaser of the plants undertook liability for payment of any remediation required with respect to the purchased assets. However, UI will be responsible for remediation of the portions of the plant sites that it has retained, and no estimate of the potential costs is available.
UI has estimated that the total cost of decontaminating and demolishing its Steel Point Station and completing requisite environmental remediation of the site will be approximately $11.3 million, of which approximately $8.7 million had been incurred as of December 31, 2000, and that the value of the property following remediation will not exceed $6.0 million. As a result of a 1992 DPUC retail rate decision, beginning January 1, 1993, UI has been recovering through retail rates $1.075 million of the remediation costs per year. The remediation costs, property value and recovery from customers will be subject to true-up in UI's next retail rate proceeding based on actual remediation costs and actual gain on UI's disposition of the property.
UI has begun replacing the bulkhead surrounding a site, bordering the Mill River in New Haven, that contains transmission facilities and deactivated generation facilities, at an estimated cost of $13.5 million. Of this amount, $4.2 million represents the portion of the costs to protect UI's transmission facilities and will be capitalized as plant in service. The remaining estimated cost of $9.3 million was expensed in 1999. UI has conveyed to an unaffiliated entity, Quinnipiac Energy LLC (QE), this entire site, reserving to UI permanent easements for the operation of its transmission facilities on the site. QE will complete the bulkhead replacement project at UI's expense. UI has also funded 61% (approximately $1.2 million) of the environmental remediation costs that will be incurred by QE to bring the site into compliance with applicable Connecticut minimum standards. QE intends to reactivate the generation facilities on the site as a merchant electric generating plant.
RCRA also regulates underground tanks storing petroleum products or hazardous substances, and Connecticut has adopted state regulations governing underground tanks storing petroleum and petroleum products that, in some respects, are more stringent than the federal requirements. UI currently owns 8 underground storage tanks, which are used primarily for gasoline and fuel oil, that are subject to these regulations. A testing program has been installed to detect leakage from any of these tanks, and substantial costs may be incurred for future actions taken to prevent tanks from leaking, to remedy any contamination of groundwater, and to modify, remove and/or replace older tanks in compliance with federal and state regulations.
The owner of a parcel of property in Derby, Connecticut, has notified UI that the owner is remediating soil contamination of the property by fuel oil, which contamination the owner has asserted resulted from activities conducted on the property when it was owned by UI during the period 1961 to 1976. Based on its own investigation to date, UI has advised the owner that UI has no responsibility for the alleged soil contamination. The Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection is remediating a migration of fuel oil contamination from a neighboring parcel of property into the adjacent Housatonic River. If UI or regulatory agencies determine that UI is responsible for the costs of these remediation activities, UI may experience substantial costs, although no estimate of potential costs is available.
In the past, UI has disposed of residues from operations at landfills, as most other industries have done. In recent years it has been determined that such disposal practices, under certain circumstances, can cause groundwater contamination. Although UI has no knowledge of the existence of any such contamination, if UI or regulatory agencies determine that remedial actions must be taken in relation to past disposal practices, UI may experience substantial costs.
Connecticut statutes prohibit the commencement of construction or reconstruction of electric transmission facilities, or modification of such facilities, unless the Connecticut Siting Council has issued a certificate of environmental compatibility and public need or a declaratory ruling that no certificate is required because the facility or modification will not have a substantial adverse environmental effect.
In complying with existing environmental statutes and regulations and further developments in these and other areas of environmental concern, including legislation and studies in the fields of water and air quality, hazardous waste handling and disposal, toxic substances, and electric and magnetic fields, UI may incur substantial capital expenditures for
- 12 -
equipment modifications and additions, monitoring equipment and recording devices, and it may incur additional operating expenses. Litigation expenditures may also increase as a result of scientific investigations, and speculation and debate, concerning the possibility of harmful health effects of electric and magnetic fields. The total amount of these expenditures is not now determinable. See also "Regulation" and "Rates" and Item 2, "Properties -The United Illuminating Company - Nuclear Generation."
UNITED RESOURCES, INC.
Each of the URI subsidiaries APS and Xcelecom leases office space in Hamden, Connecticut, that houses its management and general office personnel. The several operating subsidiaries of Xcelecom own or lease real property, buildings and equipment in Connecticut, New Jersey and Pennsylvania necessary for the management and operation of their electrical and voice-data-video design and construction businesses.
Item 3.