Item 2.
Properties
Office Premises
We conduct our activities from our principal and technical office located at Mision Santa Ana 5232, Fracc. Las Misiones CP 82133, Mazatlan, Sinaloa, Mexico. We believe that these offices are adequate for our purposes. The telephone number is +1 (669) 980-9176. Management believes that this space will meet our needs for the next 12 months. We do not own any real property or significant assets.
Index
Mining and Exploration Properties
Our strategy is to concentrate our efforts on: (i) existing operations where an infrastructure already exists; (ii) properties presently being developed and/or in advanced stages of exploration which have potential for additional discoveries; and (iii) grass-roots exploration opportunities.
We are currently concentrating our property exploration activities in Mexico.
Our properties are in the exploration stage only and are without a known body of mineral reserves. Development of the properties will follow only if satisfactory exploration results are obtained. Mineral exploration and development involves a high degree of risk and few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. There is no assurance that our mineral exploration and development activities will result in any discoveries of commercially viable bodies of mineralization. The long-term profitability of our operations will be, in part, directly related to the cost and success of our exploration programs, which may be affected by a number of factors. Please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”
We currently have an interest in six (6) properties and are currently focusing our efforts on our properties located in northern Guerrero State, Mexico. We have conducted only preliminary exploration activities to date and may discontinue such activities and dispose of the properties if further exploration work is not warranted.
Former Properties
Russian Federation
Haldeevskaya License
On August 30, 2004, we signed a Joint Activity Agreement with OOO Science Industrial Corporation Geosphera (“Geosphera”), a company registered in Russia, to form a partnership to explore the Haldeevskaya license located in the Tomsk district of the Tomsk region of the Russian Federation, 25 km east of the city of Tomsk. Geosphera will earn a 51% interest in the partnership by contributing the license for the Haldeevskaya area and the geological data. The license and the geological data have been valued at $52,000. The terms of the agreement provided that we were to earn a 49% interest in the partnership by paying $50,000. However, we increased its interest in the partnership to 80% (Geosphera - 20%) by funding $350,000 of exploration expenditures on the licensed property in 2004. Geosphera was the manager of the project.
Pursuant to the terms of the Joint Activity Agreement, and for the purpose of conducting further financing and exploration work, a company, HaldeyGold Ltd. (“HaldeyGold”), was registered with the Ministry of the Russian Federation for Taxes and Levies on January 19, 2005. The Haldeevskaya mineral exploration license along with all relevant geological data was transferred by the partnership to HaldeyGold on March 16, 2005. We had an 80% (Geosphera 20%) interest in HaldeyGold.
On April 22, 2005, December 31, 2005, July 7, 2006 and December 29, 2006, we and Geosphera agreed to amend the Haldeevskaya Joint Activity Agreement dated August 30, 2004 resulting in a revision of the 2006 exploration expenditure commitment from $460,000 to $289,743 and the 2005 exploration expenditure commitment from $300,000 to $250,000. We also agreed to fund $400,000 toward the 2007 HaldeyGold exploration budget. No funds were spent on the HaldeyGold project in 2007. Our investment in the HaldeyGold partnership interest is as follows: Capital invested - $981,387, Exploration expenses incurred - $796,261, write-down of investment in partnership interest - $185,126.
The Haldeevskaya exploration license (expired on December 31, 2007) covers an area of 576 km2 (57,600ha) and is located approximately 16 kilometres NE from Tomsk via paved highway. Excellent infrastructure is currently in place, including, maintained tarmac access roads, high tension power lines at 500 kilowatts per line, gravel vehicular access roads over the project area with close-spaced, 100 metre, cut lines over the target areas. The area is also close to the railheads in Tomsk, with links to the Trans Siberian Railway, and all infrastructures associated with a regional centre.
Index
Geology of Haldeevskaya area is represented by the mid Devonian volcanogenic-sedimentary sediments of the Mitrofan suite, terrigenous sediments of the Jurginsk, Pachinsk, Salamat suites of upper Devonian, and the Yarsk, Lagernosadsk stratus of the lower Carboniferous age. The rock formations are deformed into the linear folds with the north-north-eastern strike and they are cut by the series of longitudinal, lateral and diagonal fractures of different type and order. The area is located at the front zone of the Tomsk thrust above the granitoid intrusions that are inferred by geophysics. Dolerite and Monzonite dikes intrude Paleozoic rocks forming the series of dike zones with a north-western trend with an echelon-like arrangement of some dikes and their groups. Mineralization is focussed into areas associated with the thrusting. Towards the end of 19th and first half of the 20th centuries the region was one of the most prolific gold mining spots in Russia. The coarse gold was panned from the Tom river and the numerous drainage systems around the city of Tomsk. In late 1980 Geosphera made its first gold discoveries in hard rock. As a result of the geochemical and geophysical surveys a series of 6 highly prospective gold soil anomalies have been outlined Of the 6 large anomalies the area currently considered the most perspective are the Semiluzhenskoye, Verkhnekamensk and Sukhorechenskoye prospects. The Verkhnekamensk anomaly is located in the eastern part of the Haldeiskaja license on the tectonic contact between the clay shales and volcanics. As a result of the litho-geochemical, geological and geophysical studies, conducted by us, two mineralized zones of east-west strike have been outlined and plotted at 1:20,000. These zones were traced across the area for 3 kilometres with widths ranging from 250 to 700 meters. Within these zones 3 anomalies were found and appear prospective for gold mineralization. The first diamond drilling program has outlined vast areas of hydrothermal alteration, preliminary mineralogical investigations have discovered free gold in drill core from the upper part of the mineralization zone.
The Haldeevskaya exploration licence has expired on December 31, 2007.
Tugojakovsk License
On June 17, 2005, as amended December 31, 2005, July 7, 2006 and December 29, 2006, we signed a Joint Activity Agreement to form a partnership to explore the Tugojakovsk Project, located in the Tomsk Oblast Region of the Russian Federation. Under the terms of the agreement: (1) we acquired an 80% share of the project in exchange for contributing $126,440 in 2005; and (2) we committed to finance the project in 2006 by providing $329,375 in accordance with an approved budget. We committed to finance the project in 2007 by providing $400,000 in accordance with an approved budget. Geosphera’s ownership interest cannot be reduced below 20%. Geosphera will contribute the license for Tugojakovsk and all geological information on this subsoil area which is owned by Geosphera, as well as professional knowledge, skills and business contacts.
Pursuant to the terms of the Joint Activity Agreement, a company will be registered in the Russian Federation in order to conduct further financing and exploration work on the Tugojakovsk license area. Once the joint venture company is registered with the Ministry of the Russian Federation for Taxes and Levies, the Partnership will transfer the Tugojakovsk mineral exploration license along with all relevant geological data to the new joint venture company. We will have an 80% (Geosphera 20%) interest in the new company. The new company was not registered.
Our investment in the Tugojakovks project is as follows: Capital invested - $453,821, Exploration expenses incurred - $453,821.
The Tugojakovsk exploration license (expired December 1, 2009) covers an area of 164 km2 (16,400ha) and is located 25 kilometres SE from the regional centre of Tomsk via paved highway. An excellent infrastructure is in place including excellent sealed roads, close access to railheads and the infrastructure associated with the regional centre of Tomsk.
The geology of Tugojakovsk area is represented by the sedimentary rock formations of Carboniferous age composed of carbonaceous shales, siltstones and sandstones united under the common term “black shale.” The rocks are deformed into linear folds and cut by the series of longitudinal, lateral and diagonal faults. The dolerite and monzonite dikes intrude Palaeozoic rocks forming a series of dike zones controlling quartz stock works with gold mineralization.
The Baturinsk occurrence, located within the Tugojakovsk license is composed of a series silicified shear zones (mylonite zones) consisting of numerous, locally intense, small quartz veinlets carrying gold. The surrounding geological units are composed of mineralised carbonaceous shales. In 2006 there have been drilled 1,900 metres of core drilling. The gold mineralization zone, which is available on surface, was not intercepted by the drill holes. We made the decision to discontinue further expenditures on this licence area (Report 10-K of 2006).
Index
The Tugojakovsk exploration license expired on December 1, 2009.
Republic of Kazakhstan
Maykubinsk Exploration and Mining License
Astana is an important regional centre for the project infrastructure both as an international airport and as the location of all the exploration/mining authorities.
Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Dostyk (sold in 2010), we held a high potential Maykubinsk exploration and mining license (the “Maykubinsk License”) located in Pavlodar Oblast Region in Kazakhstan. According to Kazakhstan Mining Law an exploration and mining licence (also called a Contract with the Government) could be obtained by any private or corporate body, including those with 100% of foreign ownership, through an open tender published by government. If the licence is already issued then it could be acquired through direct negotiations with the owner and re-registered by State authorities. We acquired Dostyk from Eureka Mining Ltd (“Eureka”), a UK based public company.
The Dostyk acquisition steps were as follows:
We acquired 100% of the shares of Dostyk through a share purchase agreement with Eureka in following steps and conditions:
·
On January 27, 2007, we were granted 51% interest in Dostyk in return for a commitment to spend US$300,000 for exploration pursuant to the Maykubinsk Licence;
·
We obtained the rights to a further 20% interest in Dostyk by spending an additional US$700,000 for exploration pursuant to the Maykubinsk Licence;
·
We obtained the rights to a further 19% interest in Dostyk by spending an additional US$1,000,000 for exploration pursuant to the Maykubinsk Licence, to increase our interest in Dostyk to 90%; and
·
We paid Eureka US$400,000 to obtain the remaining 10% interest in Dostyk.
Figure 2
Index
The Dostyk property (figure 2) originally covered an area of 14,000 square kilometres (1,400,000ha) in northern Kazakhstan in a region which has been producing gold and base metals (including zinc, copper, nickel and lead) for decades in various geological environments. Geologically the area comprises granites, granodiorite and monzonite with associated continental volcanogenic formations, island arc formations and mafic and felsic intrusives. Currently, over 130 known mineral occurrences occur on the property, and we had selected 2 targets as the focus of our 2009 exploration campaign.
The licence area has a well-developed infrastructure including a network of railways and power lines that service the needs of the entire country and parts of the Urals in neighbouring Russia. Access to any of the exploration prospects is available through the year by sealed, gravel or dirt roads of good quality. Water sources are represented by number of abandoned coaleries and fresh water lakes in vicinity to exploration prospects.
The economy of the region is predicated on mining, power generation and agriculture. Mining consists of giant coal mining at Karaganda, Ekibastuz and Maikube, mining of polymetallic, gold-rich volcanogenic massive sulphide deposits at Abyz, Maikain, Alpys and Souvenir. Roads and trails criss-cross the region to serve the agriculture and mining areas. Numerous high-tension power lines radiate out of several power generation stations in Ekibastuz to serve Kazakhstan and for power export to Russia.
Regional Geology and mineralization
Central Kazakhstan’s geological structure is represented by strong folded and dislocated Cambrian-Ordovician submarine volcanic and sedimentary rocks, covered by Silurian-Devonian sediments and Devonian felsitic volcanic suites with a whole series of stocks, dikes and sills of various ages. Late Paleozoic rocks are represented by Carboniferous and Jurassic marine and continental suites.
Mineral deposits are related in time and space to the various lithologies:
·
Gold-rich volcanogenic massive sulphide deposits associated with Ordovician submarine volcanic rocks.
·
Porphyry gold-copper deposits associated with altered sub-volcanic dioritic intrusives presumable of Ordovician age.
·
Epithermal gold deposits associated with quartz veins and quartz-sulphide stockworks in Ordovician, Devonian and Permian intrusives of diorite to granite composition.
·
Lead-zinc mineralization associated with Silurian-Devonian siltstone and carbonate beds.
·
Coal deposits associated with Carboniferous marine and deltaic sedimentary rocks.
·
Titanium and zirconium-rich sands in Late Carboniferous beach sands.
·
Bauxite and nickel laterite deposits formed from modern weathering of Paleozoic limestones and Cambrian ultramafic rocks.
License and Contract commitments
The Maykubinsk Licence (license #785) was for an original area of 14,000 square kilometres (1,400,000ha) in Central Kazakhstan was issued on January 8, 1996. In accordance with new legislation the Maykubinsk Licence was converted on October 11, 2001 to Subsoil Contract # 759 with exploration and mining rights valid until Jan 8 2021. We can extend the mining term until full depletion of mineral resources. The Maykubinsk Licence was issued to Dostyk. The exploration term expired on December 31, 2009, and Dostyk currently submitted to the Kazakhstan Authorities an application for exploration extension until December 2011.
In accordance with Kazakhstan regulations, an exploration ground proved to be barren for further exploration should be returned to the state by end of each year. At the end of 2008, Dostyk had retained 2,774 sq. km (274,400ha) of exploration ground. The remaining territory will be returned to the state by December 2011, except for areas which Dostyk would claim as commercial discoveries i.e. those prospects on which Kazakh style resources of C1-C2 categories would be proved. No maintenance or any other fees and payments are required to retain the Maykubinsk Licence. No production sharing arrangements have been entered into relating to the property controlled by. A royalty interest is payable to be the State once Dostyk goes into production. The royalty rate for mineral deposits in Kazakhstan range from 0.3% to 3.0% in different projects and is subject to a feasibility study and direct negotiations with the State authority. We are the sole owner of Dostyk, i.e. nobody has any claims or interest in Dostyk except for us.
Index
In order to retain exploration and mining rights and to convert the exploration licence/contract into a mining licence Dostyk should by end of the exploration term, December 31, 2010, submit and prove to the State Resources Commission of Kazakhstan a Report of C1-C2 Mineral Resources. By doing so, Dostyk will receive exclusive and irrevocable rights for mining of the mineral resources proved with the government of Kazakhstan.
The surface of the Maykubinsk Licence area is represented by poor-quality pastoral ground with quite spare life stock on it. According to Kazakhstan law, the sub-soil contract prevails above surface agricultural or other facilities. However, Dostyk is required every year to obtain an exploration permit from local authorities.
Exploration Work 2009
The exploration work has been supervised by Kinta’s Mining Management Pty Ltd, an Australian company, providing exploration and mineral resource service in Central Asia.
The quality control of drilling, sampling, assaying has been carried out on site by Micromine Ltd, an Australian Resource company and by Alex Stewart Laboratories, an internationally accredited UK company with laboratory in Kyrgyzstan. Dostyk assays 100% of its samples in this lab.
During the year ended December 31, 2009, we expended $623,794 relating to the Dostyk project.
The funds were spent on the Berezki East Prospect and the Quartzite Gorka Prospect represented by gold-copper porphyry mineralization zones. The main exploration expenditures were diamond drilling (11 drill holes for 3,350 meters) and assays. The breakdown of the costs is shown in the table below.
Berezki East Prospect (figures 3 & 4), we continued extension drilling on Northern and Southern flanks targeting deeper levels of mineralization zone. As a result of the 2009 drilling program, the mineralization has been extended on strike for further 340 meters and in depth direction to 300 meters. The total explored length of the zone is 650 meters by average width 25 to 30 meters by grade 1.06g/t of gold and 0.14% of copper.
Figure 3
Index
Figure 4
In 2009, we continued the exploration program on the Quartzite Gorka Prospect (figures 5 & 6), targeting the western extension of gold-copper mineralization zone and its extension to depth direction. 5 holes have been drilled for a total of 1,520 meters. The drilling results have revealed a pinch out of mineralization in northwest direction with reduced zone width zone and decreased values of the gold (0.3g/t) and copper (0.1%).
Figure 5
Figure 6
Index
The following tables delineate the work done, and associated costs, for the two properties in 2009:
During December 2009, we agreed to sell its ownership interest in its Kazakhstan subsidiary to a third party for $1,500,000. The only significant asset owned by the subsidiary is the mineral exploration license described in these financial statements. The agreement for the sale of the subsidiary for less than the $2,509,597 carrying value of the subsidiaries’ mineral property was an indication that the value of the mineral property has been impaired and capitalized costs of $1,009,597 were written off in 2009. The sale was concluded in 2010 and the purchase price of $1,500,000 was received in 2010.
Current Properties
Mexico
We hold six (6) mining concessions located in Guerrero State, Mexico. They are 100% owned by our Mexican subsidiary, Exploraciones Cigma, S.A. de C.V. The concessions define two Projects, the El Violín Project and the Pinzan Morado Project. The El Violín Project is centered on geographic co-ordinates 99º18’W, 17º20’ N and has a surface area of 4098 hectares. It is located 230 km south-southeast of Mexico City, D.F., and about 30 km southeast of Chilpancingo de Los Bravos, the State capital. The Pinzan Morado Project is centered on geographic co-ordinates 100º49’W, 18º18’ N, has a surface area of 91,559 hectares and is located 165 km northwest of Chilpancingo.
Mining Concessions that define the “El Violín” Project, Municipios of Mochitlán and Quechultenango, Guerrero, Mexico (1:50,000 INEGI map sheets E14C38, E14C39).
Index
Mining Concessions that define the “Pinzan Morado” Project, Municipios of Coyuca de Catalán and Zirándaro Guerrero, Mexico (1:50 000 INEGI map sheets E14A74, E14A84). The concessions are subject to a 1.5% NSR, payable to Exploraciones La Plata, S.A. de C.V., the Mexican subsidiary of Alphamin.
El Violín
El Violín overlaps part of the Mixteca Terrane of Southern Mexico. The basement of the Mixteca Terrane is the polydeformed Paleozoic Acatlán Metamorphic Complex. The metamorphic rocks are unconformably overlain by the Middle Jurassic Chapolapa Formation which consists of two members: (i) the Green Member, mainly consisting of andesitic volcanic rocks, and (ii) the Purple Member which consists of conglomerates, breccias, rhyolite tuff-breccias, dacite, zinc-rich massive sulfides, iron formations, slate and sandstone. The Purple Member grades upwards and laterally into Tecocoyunca Group sediments, consisting of conglomerate, redbed sandstone and mudstone. The Middle Jurassic rocks are unconformably overlain by conglomerates, limestones, sandstones and tuffs of the Early Cretaceous Zicapa Formation. These grade upwards into reef limestones of the Morelos Formation. Uplift in the latest Cretaceous-Tertiary resulted in deposition of Mexcala red bed sediments unconformably on top of the Morelos Limestone, and intrusion of continental granites with their related porphyry systems.
In 2001, the Servicio Geologico Mexicano published 1:50,000 geological maps and geochemical surveys for 1:50,000 maps E14C38 and E14C39. In 2007, El Violín Project was explored by Alphamin for porphyry systems (Lupita concession) and zinc-rich massive sulfide deposits (La Huerta and Pastoría concessions). Work completed includes stream sediment geochemistry, soil geochemistry, prospecting and rock geochemistry. Prior to the financial crisis of 2008, several promising targets for further exploration, including drilling, were identified.
Pinzan Morado
The Pinzan Morado Project overlaps part of the Zihuatanejo Subterrane of the Guerrero Terrane, a complex, shallow marine island-arc assemblage that ranges from Middle Jurassic to Late Cretaceous in age. Rocks of the Guerrero Terrane are prospective for several types of metallic mineral deposits, including volcanogenic massive sulfides, sedimentary exhalative deposits (SEDEX), porphyry deposits, iron skarns and the more recently recognized iron-oxide-copper gold deposits. The Pinzán Morado Project is centered on the Placeres de Oro intrusive complex, a late Cretaceous to Early Tertiary pluton 23 km long and 9 to 3 km wide that is genetically and spatially related to a significant porphyry gold-copper system. To the west, the pluton uplifts a window (10 km long by 1 to 3 km wide) of the middle Jurassic Carucuaro Metamorphic Complex, the hostrocks for pyritic gold veins mined by local gambusinos (independent miners) and processed at the Pinzán Morado facility. Elsewhere on the concession, the country rocks are mainly shallow marine sediments and limestones that host numerous iron-rich mineral occurrences.
In 2002, the Servicio Geologico Mexicano published 1:50 000 geological maps and geochemical surveys for 1:50,000 maps E14A74 and E14A84. In 2007, Alphamin completed stream sediment sampling of part of the Property after applying for the mineral rights. Several promising anomalies for gold and base metals were identified, but no further work was done.
Item 3.