ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
GENERAL
We own or have interests in two United States properties. They are:
·Pisgah, San Bernadino County, California
·Cerbat, Arizona
A summary of important features about each of these properties is set forth in Exhibit 99.1 to our Form 10-KSB/A filed on March 11, 2009, and investors should take care to review this summary.
Adits (a type of entrance to underground mine shafts), tunnels and open pit locations following what may be a trend (direction that an ore body may follow) or vein structure (faults and cracks caused by shifts in the earth that had filled in with silica fluids and other magma volcanics which solidified leaving minerals behind) over a large region have been found on the property. The legacy of previous mining activity including; abandoned equipment, stone built homes, a cement water reservoir and numerous tailings piles, or piles of dirt left over from previous mining operations, can be seen from various locations.
In the United States, one property is owned (patented mining claims on a volcanic cinders property at Pisgah, California), one is leased with an option to purchase (the Cerbat property in Mohave County, Arizona).
The evaluation and acquisition of precious metals, mining properties and mineral properties is competitive; as there are numerous companies involved in the mining and minerals business. The Company has processed and tested mineralized materials and produced very small amounts of precious metals on a testing basis. These have come primarily from testing material from the Pisgah Mountain and Cerbat properties.
Exploration for and production of minerals is highly speculative and involves greater risks than exist in many other industries. Many exploration programs do not result in the discovery of mineralization and any mineralization discovered may not be of a sufficient quantity or quality to be profitably mined. Also, because of the uncertainties in determining metallurgical amenability of any minerals discovered, the mere discovery of mineralization may not warrant the mining of the minerals on the basis of available technology.
The Company’s decision as to whether any of the mineral properties it now holds, or which it may acquire in the future, contain commercially mineable deposits, and whether such properties should be brought into production, will depend upon the results of the exploration programs and independent feasibility analysis and the recommendation of engineers and geologists. The decision will involve the consideration and evaluation of a number of significant factors, including, but not limited to: 1. The ability to obtain all required permits; 2. Costs of bringing the property into production, including exploration and development or preparation of feasibility studies and construction of production facilities; 3. Availability and costs of financing; 4. Ongoing costs of production; 5. Market prices for the metals to be produced; and 6. The existence of reserves or mineralization with economic grades of metals or minerals. No assurance can be given that any of the properties the Company owns, leases or acquires contain (or will contain) commercially mineable mineral deposits, and no assurance can be given that the Company will ever generate a positive cash flow from production operations on such properties.
Exploration and mining operations in the United States are subject to statutory and agency requirements which address various issues, including: (i) environmental permitting and ongoing compliance, including plans of operations which are supervised by the Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”), the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and state and county regulatory authorities and agencies (e.g., state departments of environmental quality) for water and air quality, hazardous waste, etc.; (ii) mine safety and OSHA generally; and (iii) wildlife (Department of Interior for migratory fowl, if attractive standing water is involved in operations). See (b) (11) below. The Company has been added by San Bernardino County as a party to the Approved Mining/ Reclamation Plan and related permits, which have been 	issued for the Pisgah Property. See Item 2, Description of Properties - Pisgah, California - Pisgah Property Mining Lease.
Because any exploration (and future mining) operations of the Company would be subject to the permitting requirements of one or more agencies, the commencement of any such operations could be delayed, pending agency approval (or a determination that approval is not required because of size, etc.), or the project might even be abandoned due to prohibitive costs.
The Company has historically expended a significant amount of funds on consulting, geochemical analytical testing, metallurgical processing and extracting, and precious metal assaying of material, however, the Company does not consider those activities as research and development activities. All those expenses are borne by the Company.
Federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of material into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, such as the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response Liability Act (“Superfund”) affect mineral operations. For exploration and mining operations, applicable environmental regulation includes a permitting process for mining operations, an abandoned mine reclamation program and a permitting program for industrial development. Other nonenvironmental regulations can impact exploration and mining operations and indirectly affect compliance with environmental regulations. For example, a state highway department may have to approve a new access road to make a project accessible at lower costs, but the new road itself may raise environmental issues. Compliance with these laws, and any regulations adopted there under, can make the development of mining claims prohibitively expensive, thereby frustrating the sale or lease of properties, or curtailing profits or royalties which might have been received there from.
The Company presently has no full-time employees and relies on outside subcontractors, consultants and agents, to perform various administrative, legal and technical functions, as required.
PISGAH, CALIFORNIA PROPERTY
In 1997 we acquired fee title to the Pisgah Property, a “volcanic cinders” property at Pisgah, San Bernardino County, California, for $567,000. The cinders material resulted from a geologically recent volcanic eruption.
The property is privately owned and is comprised of approximately 120 acres located 10 miles southwest of Ludlow, California, with a very large hill of volcanic cinders, accessible by paved road from Interstate 40. An independent survey service hired by the Company reported that there are approximately 13,500,000 tons of volcanic cinders above the surface. Approximately 3,500,000 tons of the cinders have been screened and stockpiled, the result of prior operations by Burlington Northern Railroad Co. It processed the cinders from the hill for railroad track ballast, taking all cinders above about one-inch diameter and leaving the rest on the ground surface within one-quarter mile of the hill. The remaining material in the hill and the material left over from Burlington’s operations can easily be removed by front end loaders and loaded into dump trucks for hauling. The Cinder and Cinder #2 patented mining claims contain morphologically young alkali basalt and hawaiite lava flows and cinder (rock types created by volcanic activity). The cinder and spatter cone is about 100 meters high and has a basal diameter (circumference area at the base of the volcanic material) of about 500 meters, and was formed by the splattering of lava into a cone shape during volcanic activity. The volcanic cone and crater consists of unsorted basalis tephra (volcanic material), ranging from finest ash, through scoriascious cinders and blocks, or slag like structures born from igneous rock, to dense and broken bombs up to two meters in dimension.
The Pisgah Property consists of patented claims we own; no fees have to be paid to the BLM or work performed on the claims to retain title to the property.
From the year 2000 through 2002, the Company ran numerous tests on the volcanic cinders property to determine if the material contains precious metals. Although the program indicated precious metals might exist in material taken from the Pisgah Property, overall the program results were inconclusive.
Pisgah Property - Mining Lease
In May, 1998, we signed a Mining Lease Agreement for the Pisgah Property with Twin Mountain Rock Venture, a California general partnership (“Twin Mountain,”). The Agreement is for an initial term of 10 years, with an option to renew for an additional ten-year term. Twin Mountain has the right to take 600,000 tons of volcanic cinders during the initial term, and 600,000 more tons during the additional term, for processing and sale as decorative rock. The material would be removed from the original cinder deposit, not the stockpiled material. Twin Mountain has not removed any material to date.
The agreement provides that Twin Mountain will pay minimum annual rental payments of $22,500 for the initial term and $27,500 per year for the additional term. Twin Mountain is also obligated to pay us a monthly production royalty for all material removed from the premises: The greater of 5% of gross sales f.o.b. Pisgah, or $0.80 per ton for material used for block material; plus 10% of gross sales f.o.b. Pisgah for all other material. Twin Mountain will be credited against these payments for minimum royalty payments previously made.
Twin Mountain is current in payments. Twin Mountain has not yet removed any material from the property and has not indicated when it would do so. Twin Mountain does not have the right to remove or extract any precious metals from the property. It does have the right to remove cinder material, which could contain precious metals (and Twin Mountain would have title to the removed cinder material), but it cannot process the materials for precious metals either on or off site.
Mining and reclamation permits, and an air quality permit have been issued by the California regulatory agencies in the names of both Twin Mountain and the Company. We posted a cash bond in the amount of $1,379 (1% of the total bond amount) and Twin Mountain has posted the remainder of the $137,886 bond. If Twin Mountain defaults, we would be responsible for reclamation of the property, but reclamation costs incurred in that event would be paid in whole or part by the bond posted by us and Twin Mountain. Reclamation costs are not presently determinable.
In addition to our historic exploration activities, we are currently under taking alternative revenue producing opportunities at our Pisgah Property. On January 23, 2012 we entered into a mineral lease agreement with a partner who will purchase up to 100,000 tons of resources derived from the property to produce commercial products for resale. The agreement is for an initial period of ten (10) years, with an additional five (5) year extension at the option of the lessee. We will receive fees for the removal of minerals at diminishing prices in $0.50 increments between $12 per ton and $10 per ton for each 20,000 tons of material removed.
Pisgah Property - Material Supply Agreements
On January 23, 2012, the Company entered into a mineral lease agreement with a GoodCorp Inc. to purchase material from the Pisgah Property. This mineral lease agreement is for an initial period of ten (10) years, with an additional five (5) year extension at the option of the lessee. Sale prices of minerals are set at diminishing prices in $0.50 increments between $12 per ton and $10 per ton for each 20,000 tons of material removed. As of the date hereof, no material has been sold and no revenue has been received by the Company under this agreement.
On April 9, 2013, the Company entered into a Material Supply Agreement (the “Original MSA”) with Candeo Lava Products, Inc., (“Candeo”), an Alberta, Canada company controlled by a former director of the Company and brother of our then CEO. This Agreement was amended on March 3, 2014 (the “Amended MSA”). Pursuant to the Amended MSA, Candeo is entitled to purchase volcanic lava or cinders from Pisgah Property that is not currently stockpiled on the Pisgah Property (the “Material”) at a price equal to the greater of $15 per ton and the net sales margin per ton removed from the Pisgah Property realized as follows: (i) 35% of the net sales margins during the first year of mining; and (ii) 50% of the net sales margins for the subsequent years during the term of the Amended MSA (the “Production Payment”). Under the Amended MSA, Candeo has the right to remove an initial amount of up to 1,000,000 tons (the “Initial Amount”) of Material from the Property and additional incremental amounts (the “Additional Amounts”) of 1,000,000 tons each, upon the successful removal of the Initial Amount from the Property. Candeo’s right to remove the Additional Amounts from the Property is on the basis that once Candeo has removed the first Additional Amount of the Material from the Property, it shall have the right to remove subsequent Additional Amounts of Material from the Property, so long as it removes its then current Additional Amount. As such, Candeo’s right to extend the term of the Amended MSA is entirely based on Candeo’s successful performance of its Material removal commitments under the terms of the Amended MSA.
Under the Amended MSA, Candeo is required to purchase a minimum of ten thousand (10,000) tons of Material during each of the first three years of the term of the agreement, all at a purchase price of $15.00 per ton, for a total payment of $150,000 per year in each of the first three years of the Term (the “Pre-Purchased Payments”), with credit being given by the Company to Candeo for all pre-paid tons of Material that have already been purchased and paid for under the Original MSA. The Pre-Purchased Material will remain on the Pisgah Property until Candeo commences its production operations or engages the Company to mine and remove Material on Candeo’s behalf. In the event that Candeo engages the Company to mine and remove any of the Material, Candeo shall pay all of the Company’s reasonable costs and expenses in conducting such mining and removal operations plus a fee of 15%. All mining and removal operations on the Pisgah Property will be subject to all necessary regulatory and other third party approvals being obtained. The Pre-Purchased Payments will not be refundable to Candeo but shall be credited against the first Production Payments.
The term of the Amended MSA has been extended from an initial term of ten (10) years to twenty (20) years (the “Primary Term”) and Candeo has the option to extend the term for an additional thirty (30) years exercisable at any time with no less than three (3) months written notice prior to the expiration of the Primary Term, provided that Candeo is not in default under any of the provisions of the Amended MSA and that the whole of the Initial Amount has been removed from the Property.
Location and Access
The Pisgah Project is located in San Bernardino County, 72 kilometers (45 miles) east of the city of Barstow, California, and 307 kilometers (192 miles) south-southeast of Las Vegas, Nevada, United States. Barstow lies near the southwest border of California, east of the junction of Interstate 15, Interstate 40 and U.S. Route 66. The Project is centered at Latitude 34o 44’ 47” North, Longitude 116o 22’ 29” West (See Figures 1, 2 and 3), or UTM (metric) coordinates 55700 E/384500 N in Zone 11, datum point NAD 27. It lies within the NW ¼ of Section 32, Township 8 North, Range 6 East from San Bernardino Meridian and has an area of 48.4 hectares (120.2 acres).
Access to the Pisgah Project is by the paved 2-lane paved road. From the junction of Interstate 15 and Interstate 40 just east of Barstow, California travel east along Interstate 40 for 52 kilometers (32.5 miles). Take the Hector Rd. Exit and turn right onto Hector Rd. From here turn left onto Historic Route 66 for 7.4 kilometers (4.6 miles), and then turn right (south) onto the Pisgah Crater road. Follow this road for 3.2 kilometers (2.0 miles) to the Pisgah Crater workings.
Pisgah Project
General Location Map
Pisgah Project
Regional Location Map
Pisgah Project
Township Location Map
Pisgah Project
Topography Map
OWL CANYON - S & S JOINT VENTURE
The Company has abandoned the Owl Canyon - S & S Joint Venture entered into in 1996 with the Schwarz family choosing to use its resources on the Pisgah Project.
CERBAT PROPERTY
On March 12, 1998, we signed a Lease and Purchase Option Agreement covering six patented mining claims in the Cerbat Mountains, Hualapai Mining District, and Mohave County, Arizona. The patented claims cover approximately 120 acres. We paid $10,000 as the initial lease payment and are obligated to pay $1,500 per quarter as minimum advance royalties, which payments have been made to date. The Company has the option to purchase the property for $250,000, less payments already made. In the event of production before purchase, we will pay the lessor a production royalty of 5% of the gross returns received from the sale or other disposition of metals produced. Except for limited testing and evaluation work performed in mid- 2002, no work has been performed on this property since 1999. Access is north 15 miles from Kingman, Arizona on Highway 93, east from the historical marker to Mill Ranch, then left three miles to a locked gate.
The country rock is pre-Cambrian granite, gneiss and schist complex. It is intruded by dikes of minette, granite porphyry, diabase, rhyolite, basalt and other rocks, some of which are associated with workable veins and are too greatly serieitized (altered small particles within the material) for determination. The complex is also flanked on the west by masses of the tertiary volcanic rocks, principally rhyolite. The mineralized body contains principally gold, silver and lead. They occur in fissure veins, which generally have a north-easterly trend and a steep north-easterly or south-westerly dip. Those situated north of Cerbat wash are chiefly gold bearing while those to the south principally contain silver and lead. The gangue (material that is considered to have base metals that are not precious or worth recovering for market value) is mainly quartz and the values usually favor the hanging wall. The Company has been informed by the owner that the property contains several mine shafts of up to several hundred feet in depth and tailings piles containing thousands of tons of tailings. The property has not produced since the late 1800’s.
We conducted (in late June and July 2002) a limited number of preliminary tests and assays on material taken from mine dumps (material left on the property from mining by others many years ago). It was anticipated that this material could be economically processed. However, the dump material tonnage will not support a small-scale operation without being supplemented with additional underground ore. We are considering selling or farming out the property, as there have been expressions of interest in the property from time to time. We have had no significant activity on Cerbat as of the date of this annual report.
Location and Access
The Cerbat Group of claims is located in the Hualapai Mining District about 15 miles north from Kingman which is the nearest railroad and supply point. The state highway from Kingman to Boulder Dam and Las Vegas passes within 4 miles of the property and a good County road connects the highway with the mining site. The County road passes through the Rolling Wave and Red Dog claims making transportation available to the lower workings. An old road connects the New Discovery shaft with the Cerbat workings near the crest of the hill. This group of claims is favorably situated for trucking and transportation purposes.
WIKIEUP PROPERTY
During 2012 and 2013, we conducted a comprehensive research and development program to ascertain the potential for any rare earth elements on the Wikieup property with the assistance of an independent geologist working together with students from the University of Nevada Las Vegas’ geology department (UNLV). The study has been completed and the results have been presented to the Company. Based on those results, the Company has decided to abandon any development of the Wikieup Property.
ITEM 3.