ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
GENERAL
We own or have interests in four United States properties. They are:
·
Pisgah, San Bernadino County, California
·
Owl Canyon, California
·
Cerbat, Arizona
·
Wikieup, Arizona
A summary of important features about each of these properties is set forth in Exhibit 99.1 to our Form 10-KSB/A filed on March 11, 2009, and investors should take care to review this summary.
On September 26, 2006, the Company signed a letter of intent with E.R.S. Ltd., an Israeli owned Cyprus corporation with offices located in Tel Aviv. The letter of intent was to expand testing by E.R.S. on material from Can-Cal’s Pisgah property. The Company and E.R.S. did not enter into a definitive agreement in 2007. As of January 8, 2008, E.R.S. advised the Company that it wished to continue negotiations for a definitive agreement.
In May and June 2006, Can-Cal acquired an additional 66 20-acre lode claims for the filing cost of $1,200. This increased the Company’s property holding to 1,900 acres or 2.97 square miles of 95 lode claims.
In April, June, July and September 2006, the Company conducted further surface sampling and rock wall sampling on its Wikieup, Arizona property. These samples were shipped to ALS Chemex, an internationally recognized assayer for fire assays (process of testing the original head ore material at high temperatures to determine the recoverability of precious metals) and I.C.P. tests. The preliminary assay results were encouraging and the Company will continue with further surface sampling from various areas of the approximate six square miles of claimed land.
On August 28, 2006, Can-Cal acquired an additional 1,800 acres from the Rose Trust in exchange for 1,000,000 restricted shares of its common stock. This increased the Company’s property holding on its Wikieup, Arizona property to 3700 acres or approximately six square miles of 185 lode claims. The area is accessed by gravel road just off highway 93 approximately eight miles from the town of Wikieup, Arizona.
Adits (A type of entrance to underground mine shafts), tunnels and open pit locations following what may be a trend (direction that an ore body may follow) or vein structure (faults and cracks caused by shifts in the earth that had filled in with silica fluids and other magma volcanics which solidified leaving minerals behind) over a large region have been found on the property. The legacy of previous mining activity including; abandoned equipment, stone built homes, a cement water reservoir and numerous tailings piles, or piles of dirt left over from previous mining operations, can be seen from various locations.
The geology of the Wikieup area claims is comprised of Precambrian ganoids and gneiss. Outcrop is extensive on the property and rock units include diorite, gabbro and granitic dikes. The Company is continuing the surface sampling program and plans to hire an independent geologist for continued exploration.
In the United States, one property is owned (patented mining claims on a volcanic cinders property at Pisgah, California), one is leased with an option to purchase (the Cerbat property in Mohave County, Arizona), and two properties are groups of unpatented mining claims located on federal public land and managed by the United States Bureau of Land Management (the “BLM”): the Owl Canyon property (23 miles northeast of Baker, California); and the Wikieup property (in Mohave County, Arizona).
In the United States, unpatented claims are “located” or “staked” by individuals or companies on federal public land. Each placer claim covers 160 acres and each lode claim covers 20 acres. The Company is obligated to pay a maintenance fee of $125 per claim per year to the BLM and file an Affidavit of Assessment Work with the County showing labor and improvements of at least $100 for each claim yearly.
If the statutes and regulations for the location and maintenance of a mining claim in the United States are complied with, the locator obtains a valid possessory right, or claim, to the contained minerals. Failure to pay such fees or make the required filings may render the mining claim void or voidable. We believe we have valid claims, but, because mining claims are self-initiated and self-maintained, it is impossible to ascertain their validity solely from public real estate records. If the government challenges the validity of an unpatented mining claim, we would have the burden of proving the present economic feasibility of mining minerals located on the claims.
PISGAH, CALIFORNIA PROPERTY
GENERAL TESTING. In 1997 we acquired fee title to a “volcanic cinders” property at Pisgah, San Bernardino County, California, for $567,000. The cinders material resulted from a geologically recent volcanic eruption.
The property is privately owned and is comprised of approximately 120 acres located 10 miles southwest of Ludlow, California, with a very large hill of volcanic cinders, accessible by paved road from Interstate 40. An independent survey service hired by the Company reported that there are approximately 13,500,000 tons of volcanic cinders above the surface. Approximately 3,500,000 tons of the cinders have been screened and stockpiled, the result of prior operations by Burlington Northern Railroad Co. It processed the cinders from the hill for railroad track ballast, taking all cinders above about one inch diameter and leaving the rest on the ground surface within one-quarter mile of the hill. The remaining material in the hill and the material left over from Burlington’s operations, can easily be removed by front end loaders and loaded into dump trucks for hauling. The Cinder and Cinder #2 patented mining claims contain morphologically young alkali basalt and hawaiite lava flows and cinder (rock types created by volcanic activity). The cinder and spatter cone is about 100 meters high and has a basal diameter (circumference area at the base of the volcanic material) of about 500 meters, and was formed by the splattering of lava into a cone shape during volcanic activity. The volcanic cone and crater consists of unsorted basalis tephra (volcanic material), ranging from finest ash, through scoriascious cinders and blocks, or slag like structures born from igneous rock, to dense and broken bombs up to two meters in dimension.
The Company owns equipment which was acquired with the property, and is located on the property: a ball mill used for crushing cinders, truck loading pads, two buildings, large storage tanks, conveyors to load trucks, material silos and screening equipment.
The Pisgah property consists of patented claims we own; no fees have to be paid to the BLM or work performed on the claims to retain title to the property.
Electrical power was previously available onsite and could be reinitiated by running a new power line. The Company has reinstated testing over the past nine months and is currently conducting additional tests.
From 2000 through 2002, the Company ran numerous tests on the volcanic cinders property to determine if the material contains precious metals. Although the program indicated precious metals might exist in material taken from the Pisgah property, overall the program results were inconclusive.
Pisgah Property - Mining Lease
To generate working capital, as of May 1, 1998, we signed a Mining Lease Agreement for the Pisgah property with Twin Mountain Rock Venture, a California general partnership (“Twin Mountain,”). The Agreement is for an initial term of 10 years, with an option to renew for an additional ten-year term. Twin Mountain has the right to take 600,000 tons of volcanic cinders during the initial term, and 600,000 more tons during the additional term, for processing and sale as decorative rock. The material would be removed from the original cinder deposit, not the stockpiled material. Twin Mountain has not removed any material to date.
The agreement provides that Twin Mountain will pay minimum annual rental payments of $22,500 for the initial term and $27,500 per year for the additional term. Twin Mountain is also obligated to pay us a monthly production royalty for all material removed from the premises: The greater of 5% of gross sales f.o.b. Pisgah, or $.80 per ton for material used for block material; plus 10% of gross sales f.o.b. Pisgah for all other material. Against these payments, Twin Mountain will be credited for minimum royalty payments previously made.
Twin Mountain is current in payments, which are pledged to service company debt. Twin Mountain has not yet removed any material from the property and has not indicated when it would do so. Twin Mountain does not have the right to remove or extract any precious metals from the property; it does have the right to remove cinder material, which could contain precious metals (and Twin Mountain would have title to the removed cinder material), but it cannot process the materials for precious metals either on or off site.
Mining and reclamation permits, and an air quality permit have been issued by the California regulatory agencies in the names of both Twin Mountain and the Company. We posted a cash bond in the amount of $1,379 (1% of the total bond amount) and Twin Mountain has posted the remainder of the $137,886 bond. If Twin Mountain defaults, we would be responsible for reclamation of the property, but reclamation costs incurred in that event would be paid in whole or part by the bond posted by us and Twin Mountain. Reclamation costs are not presently determinable.
Pisgah Property - Debt Transactions
At December 31, 2007, we owed a second private lender (First Colony Merchant) a total of $652,500 including accrued interest, on three notes payable secured by a deed of trust and assignment of rents (payments under the Twin Mountain lease) on the Pisgah property. For additional consideration for part of the amounts loaned, the Company granted the lender a five-year option to purchase 300,000 restricted shares of common stock, at the lower of $0.65 per share or 50% of the lowest trading price during the month before exercise, payable in cash. The option was exercised in 2000 at $0.52 per share. Also, in fiscal year 2000, as further consideration, we issued 45,000 restricted shares of common stock to a corporate affiliate of the lender as a loan placement fee. As of the filing date of this Annual Report, the Company is in default of principal and interest payments totaling $707,446 and has initiated forbearance on collection with the lender.
Location and Access
The Pisgah Project is located in San Bernardino County, 72 kilometers (45 miles) east of the city of Barstow, California, and 307 kilometers (192 miles) south-southeast of Las Vegas, Nevada, United States. Barstow lies near the southwest border of California, east of the junction of Interstate 15, Interstate 40 and U.S. Route 66. The Project is centered at Latitude 34o 44’ 47” North, Longitude 116o 22’ 29” West (See Figures 1, 2 and 3), or UTM (metric) co-ordinates 55700 E/384500 N in Zone 11, datum point NAD 27. It lies within the NW ¼ of Section 32, Township 8 North, Range 6 East from San Bernardino Meridian and has an area of 48.4 hectares (120.2 acres).
Access to the Pisgah Project is by the paved 2-lane paved road. From the junction of Interstate 15 and Interstate 40 just east of Barstow, California travel east along Interstate 40 for 52 kilometers (32.5 miles). Take the Hector Rd. Exit and turn right onto Hector Rd. From here turn left onto Historic Route 66 for 7.4 kilometers (4.6 miles), and then turn right (south) onto the Pisgah Crater road. Follow this road for 3.2 kilometers (2.0 miles) to the Pisgah Crater workings.
Pisgah Project
General Location Map
Pisgah Project
Regional Location Map
Pisgah Project
Township Location Map
Pisgah Project
Topography Map
OWL CANYON - S & S JOINT VENTURE
In 1996, the Company entered into a Joint Venture Agreement with the Schwarz family covering approximately 425 acres of unpatented placer and lode mining claims in the Silurian Hills of California, known as Owl Canyon (“ the S&S Joint Venture.”) The S & S Joint Venture has since reduced its holdings to 160 acres of lode claims and a five-acre mill site claim. These claims are prospective for precious metals and some base metals. The property is located approximately 23 miles northeast of Baker, California, accessible by 23 miles of paved and dirt road. The Company and the Schwarz family each have a 50% interest in the venture which is operated by a management committee, comprised of Ronald Sloan, a director of the company, and Ms. Robin Schwarz.
Holding costs are approximately $160 per year for county and BLM filing fees for each of the eight lode claims, in accordance with filings under provisions of the “Small Miner Waiver”. Work must be performed on the property each year to keep title to the claims.
Pursuant to the Joint Venture Agreement, we are funding the venture’s operations. Any income from the venture will first be paid to the Company to repay funds advanced to the venture or spent on its account, with any additional income divided 50% to the Company and 50% to the Schwarz family.
As the acquisition price of its 50% interest in the S & S Joint Venture, in 1996 the Company issued 500,000 restricted shares of common stock to the Schwarz family.
The venture owns miscellaneous drilling, milling, assay, and facilities, all of it stored at the property. The equipment is used but operational.
Prior to 2003, the Company conducted extensive preliminary testing and assaying on the Owl Canyon property. Results indicate precious metals are present in material located on the Owl Canyon property, and further exploration is warranted. Upon conclusion of the trenching program conducted by Geochemist, Bruce Ballantyne, the assay results confirmed that the “Papa Hill” section of Owl Canyon should be a designated drill target in the future.
Geology Of Owl Canyon
Mineralization on the property migrates along north/south oriented faulting and at the contact point between metamorphic and dolomite rocks. Metalliferous deposits, or deposits filled with fine metal particles, along these fractures are prevalent near the central area of Owl Canyon. Along the southern side of the property, fault contact areas exhibit localized zone alteration from migrating hydrothermal fluids, or areas altered from hot lava and hydrothermal fluids due to volcanic activity, producing a mineralized vein ranging in width from approximately 18 to 36 inches.
We have performed external and in-house fire assays on material from the Owl Canyon property, sending both trench and rock samples to independent laboratories. Approximately 15 tons of material was removed to a depth of 3 to 4 feet to expose a continuation of one of the veins. An independent laboratory analyzed samples from this material.
A detailed structural and geologic mapping survey has been completed on the property, indicating some zones in certain areas are suitable exploration targets. Currently, work on this property has been suspended. This property is without known reserves and future work would be exploratory in nature. There was no significant activity on this property in 2007.
Location
The Silurian Hills are located in the Silurian Hills 15-minute quadrangle. The property is located in the northeastern corner of the 7.5 minute series topographic map entitled North of Bank Quadrangle California - San Bernardino County in Section 9, Township 16N, Range 9E. It is centered along the topographic feature known as Owl Canyon.
The area lies within the California Desert Conservation Area administered by the Bureau of Land Management. This agency identified the Silurian Hills as having high mineral potential for silver (1980) which led the County of San Bernardino to zone the area for mining and mineral exploration.
Access
From Interstate 15 at Baker, California, access is via California State Highway 127 for a distance of nine miles north of the service center town of Baker. At the Powerline Road junction turn right and travel on a USGS class 3 road generally under the Power Transmission Line for a further 9 miles. At this point turn to the left and head north to the Silurian Hills until metal gates are reached after 5 miles of slow, track-road, travel. This is the eastern boundary of the Owl Canyon Mineral Property.
Topography
Relief at the Owl Canyon Mineral Property area ranges from 650 meters to about 775 meters (elevation 2,000 to 3,000 feet above sea level). Locally, topographic relief is on the order of 1,000 feet in less than one half a mile along the Owl Canyon topographic feature.
CERBAT PROPERTY
On March 12, 1998, we signed a Lease and Purchase Option Agreement covering six patented mining claims in the Cerbat Mountains, Hualapai Mining District, and Mohave County, Arizona. The patented claims cover approximately 120 acres. We paid $10,000 as the initial lease payment and are obligated to pay $1,500 per quarter as minimum advance royalties. The Company has the option to purchase the property for $250,000, less payments already made. In the event of production before purchase, we will pay the lessor a production royalty of 5% of the gross returns received from the sale or other disposition of metals produced. Except for limited testing and evaluation work performed in mid- 2002, no work has been performed on this property since 1999. Access is north 15 miles from Kingman, Arizona on Highway 93, east from the historical market to Mill Ranch, then left three miles to a locked gate.
The country rock is pre-Cambrian granite, gneiss and schist complex. It is intruded by dikes of minette, granite porphyry, diabase, rhyolite, basalt and other rocks, some of which are associated with workable veins and are too greatly serieitized (altered small particles within the material) for determination. The complex is also flanked on the west by masses of the tertiary volcanic rocks, principally rhyolite. The mineralized body contains principally gold, silver and lead. They occur in fissure veins, which generally have a north-easterly trend and a steep north-easterly or south-westerly dip. Those situated north of Cerbat wash are chiefly gold bearing while those to the south principally contain silver and lead. The gangue (material that is considered to have base metals that are not precious or worth recovering for market value) is mainly quartz and the values usually favor the hanging wall. The Company has been informed by the owner that the property contains several mine shafts of up to several hundred feet in depth and tailings piles containing thousands of tons of tailings. The property has not produced since the late 1800’s.
The buildings on the property are practically valueless, owing to being in disuse for so many years.
We conducted (in late June and July 2002) a limited number of preliminary tests and assays on material taken from mine dumps (material left on the property from mining by others many years ago). It was anticipated that this material could be economically processed. However, the dump material tonnage will not support a small-scale operation without being supplemented with additional underground ore. We are considering selling or farming out the property, as there have been expressions of interest in the property from time to time. There was no significant activity on Cerbat in 2007.
Location and Access
The Cerbat Group of claims is located in the Hualapai Mining District about 15 miles north from Kingman which is the nearest railroad and supply point. The state highway from Kingman to Boulder Dam and Las Vegas passes within 4 miles of the property and a good County road connects the highway with the mining site. The County road passes through the Rolling Wave and Red Dog claims making transportation available to the lower workings. An old road connects the New Discovery shaft with the Cerbat workings near the crest of the hill. This group of claims is favorably situated for trucking and transportation purposes.
WIKIEUP PROPERTY
The Wikieup property consists of 2400 acres or approximately 3.8 square miles of 120 lode claims. The lode claims are accessed via gravel road approximately eight miles just off Highway 93 at the town of Wikieup, Arizona.
Holding costs are approximately $155 per year for county and BLM filing fees, and work must be performed on the property each year to keep title to the claims.
The geology of the area is comprised of Precambrian ganoids and gneiss. Outcrop is extensive on the property and rock units include diorite, gabbro and granitic dikes. The Company has kept the claims in good standing by submission of the required rental fees. During the past nine months, the Company has conducted surface sampling of the rock units on the property for “In House” and independent third party companies’ analytical evaluation and assay tests. We are currently holding the property for further exploration. At the present time the property is without known reserves.
Location and Access
The Wikieup Project is located in southern Mohave County, 88 kilometers (55 miles) south of the city of Kingman, Arizona, and 253 kilometers (158 miles) southeast of Las Vegas, Nevada, United States. Wikieup lies on Interstate 93. It occurs at Latitude 34o 44’ 47” North, Longitude 116o 22’ 29” West, the site of Wikieup, and west from there for approximately 19 kilometres (12 miles; Figures 1, 2 and 3). The Project is located 37 kilometers (23 miles) northwest of the mining camp of Bagdad, Arizona and 25 kilometers (16 miles) northwest of the mining camp of Bagdad, Arizona.
Access to the Wikieup Project is by the paved 2-lane Interstate 93 from the village of Wikieup. A few claims straddle the highway at Wikieup, but the main body of mining claims is accessed by heading west from the junction of Interstate 93 at Wikieup onto Chicken Springs Road and following various secondary and tertiary gravel and sand roads. Many of the tertiary roads require a 4-wheeldrive vehicle for access.
Wikieup Project
General Location Map
Wikieup Project
Regional Location Map
Wikieup Project
District Location Map
Wikieup Project
Geology Map
(b)(2) Distribution methods of products or services. Not applicable.
(b)(3) The Company has not publicly announced any new product(s) or service(s).
(b)(4) The evaluation and acquisition of precious metals, mining properties and mineral properties is competitive; as there are numerous companies involved in the mining and minerals business.
Exploration for and production of minerals is highly speculative and involves greater risks than exist in many other industries. Many exploration programs do not result in the discovery of mineralization and any mineralization discovered may not be of a sufficient quantity or quality to be profitably mined. Also, because of the uncertainties in determining metallurgical amenability of any minerals discovered, the mere discovery of mineralization may not warrant the mining of the minerals on the basis of available technology.
The Company’s decision as to whether any of the mineral properties it now holds, or which it may acquire in the future, contain commercially mineable deposits, and whether such properties should be brought into production, will depend upon the results of the exploration programs and independent feasibility analysis and the recommendation of engineers and geologists. The decision will involve the consideration and evaluation of a number of significant factors, including, but not limited to: 1. The ability to obtain all required permits; 2. Costs of bringing the property into production, including exploration and development or preparation of feasibility studies and construction of production facilities; 3. Availability and costs of financing; 4. Ongoing costs of production; 5. Market prices for the metals to be produced; and 6. The existence of reserves or mineralization with economic grades of metals or minerals. No assurance can be given that any of the properties the Company owns, leases or acquires contain (or will contain) commercially mineable mineral deposits, and no assurance can be given that the Company will ever generate a positive cash flow from production operations on such properties.
(b)(5) The Company has processed and tested mineralized materials and produced very small amounts of precious metals on a testing basis. These have come primarily from testing material from the Pisgah Mountain, Wikieup, Cerbat and the Owl Canyon properties.
(b)(6) The Company is not dependent upon one or a few major customers.
(b)(7) The Company holds no patents, trademarks, licenses, franchises, concessions, and has no labor contracts.
(b)(8) Exploration and mining operations in the United States are subject to statutory and agency requirements which address various issues, including: (i) environmental permitting and ongoing compliance, including plans of operations which are supervised by the Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”), the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and state and county regulatory authorities and agencies (e.g., state departments of environmental quality) for water and air quality, hazardous waste, etc.; (ii) mine safety and OSHA generally; and (iii) wildlife (Department of Interior for migratory fowl, if attractive standing water is involved in operations). See (b)(11) below. The Company has been added by San Bernardino County as a party to the Approved Mining/ Reclamation Plan and related permits, which have been issued for the Pisgah property. See Item 2, Description of Properties - Pisgah, California - Pisgah Property Mining Lease.
(b)(9) Because any exploration (and future mining) operations of the Company would be subject to the permitting requirements of one or more agencies, the commencement of any such operations could be delayed, pending agency approval (or a determination that approval is not required because of size, etc.), or the project might even be abandoned due to prohibitive costs.
Generally, the effect of governmental regulations on the Company cannot be determined until a specific project is undertaken by the Company.
(b)(10) The Company has expended a significant amount of funds on consulting, geochemical analytical testing, metallurgical processing and extracting, and precious metal assaying of material, however, the Company does not consider those activities as research and development activities. All those expenses are borne by the Company.
(b)(11) Federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of material into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, such as the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response Liability Act (“Superfund”) affect mineral operations. For exploration and mining operations, applicable environmental regulation includes a permitting process for mining operations, an abandoned mine reclamation program and a permitting program for industrial development. Other non- environmental regulations can impact exploration and mining operations and indirectly affect compliance with environmental regulations. For example, a state highway department may have to approve a new access road to make a project accessible at lower costs, but the new road itself may raise environmental issues. Compliance with these laws, and any regulations adopted there under, can make the development of mining claims prohibitively expensive, thereby frustrating the sale or lease of properties, or curtailing profits or royalties which might have been received there from. In 1997, the S & S Joint Venture spent approximately $32,000 to clean up areas of the Owl Canyon properties as requested by the BLM. The Company cannot anticipate what the further costs and/or effects of compliance with any environmental laws might be. The BLM approved the S&S Joint Venture trenching program at Owl Canyon without a requirement for bonding. The BLM approved the reclamation of this trenching program in 2000. BLM demanded further clean up of the mill site and surrounding area, and the Joint Venture complied with their request in 2000.
(b)(12) The Company presently has two full-time employees and relies on outside subcontractors, consultants and agents, to perform various administrative, legal and technical functions, as required.
OTHER FINANCING TRANSACTIONS
During the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, we sold 1,238,167 restricted common shares to 72 Canadian residents and 4 US residents for a total of $375,533 and issued warrants to purchase 492,795 restricted common shares, exercisable between $0.35 to $0.65 per share. These securities were issued in private transactions, with respect to the Canadian residents, in reliance on the exemption from registration with the SEC provided by Regulation S, and with respect to the U.S. citizen, in reliance on the exemption available under Section 4(2) of the 1933 Act.
The common stock was rendered to a U.S. citizen, in reliance on the exemption available under Section 4(2) of the 1933 Act. The shares were valued at a total of $22,000. In addition to monthly cash payments of $3,500 per month for twelve months, the Company has recorded debt forgiveness of $147,419 in accordance with the terms of the settlement agreement. Due to the related party nature of the transaction the gain has been recorded to additional paid in capital, therefore, there was no impact on the Company’s net loss.
During the first quarter of the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2008, the Company sold 32,500 shares of restricted common stock and 32,500 warrants to purchase 32,500 shares of common stock to an accredited Canadian investor and one United States investor for a total of $8,125. The warrants are exercisable at a price of $0.35 per share and expire two years from the date of issuance. These securities were issued in private transactions, with respect to the Canadian resident, in reliance on the exemption from registration with the SEC provided by Regulation S and with respect to the United States investor, in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided under Section 4(2) of the 1933 Securities Act.
ITEM 3.