ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES
Petroleum and Natural Gas Properties
Riverbend Project
The Riverbend Project comprises approximately 111,926 gross acres in the Uinta Basin of northeastern Utah, of which we held interests in approximately 83,323 net acres as of December 31, 2011. After the closing of the transaction with Wapiti, we hold interests in approximately 41,661 net acres in this area. Historically, our engineering and geologic focus has been concentrated on four natural gas and condensate charged formations in the Uinta basin: the Wasatch, Mesaverde, Blackhawk and Mancos formations. A typical well drilled into these formations may encounter multiple distinct natural gas sands, silts and shales located between approximately 6,000 and 15,000 feet in depth that are completed using up to ten staged recompletions.
In December 2011, we began drilling two wells to the Green River Formation, both in which we currently own a 50% working interest. The Federal 34-19G-9-19 was successfully completed in three stages and the Federal 23-30G-9-19 was completed in four stages in the oil-bearing Green River Formation. The Federal 34-19G and the Federal 23-30G had initial 7 day average rates of 67 BOPD and 50 BOPD, respectively. The wells continue to produce as expected.
During 2011, we recompleted five gross (4.25 net, or 2.12 net after the closing of the Wapiti transaction) natural gas wells in the Uinta Basin, Utah to target up-hole pay zones in the existing wellbores. As of December 31, 2011, we operated 135 gross wells and we currently have an inventory of 15 operated wells with up-hole recompletions and one Upper Mancos well awaiting initial completion activities. We contract drilling rigs as needed and we do not currently have a rig under contract.
Southern California Project
As of December 31, 2011, we had a leasehold interest in approximately 37,959 gross (14,603 net) acres in Kern and San Luis Obispo Counties of Southern California. Below is a description of the various projects in this area:
Northwest McKittrick. The operator of this shallow oil prospect continues to work with the applicable California state agencies to acquire the appropriate permits. Progress has been slowed due to California state budget issues and forced furloughs affecting the regulatory agencies. While some progress has been made, final approval is still pending from Federal and California agencies.
Willow Springs. The operator of this oil prospect has drilled and reached total depth on the initial well. The operator has run a seven inch liner to total depth with the intent of testing the well. It is anticipated that the well will be tested within the next 45 to 60 days.
Antelope Valley. The operator of these oil and liquids-rich prospects is currently processing and interpreting the 3-D seismic data over the Antelope Valley prospects. Our agreement with the operator requires that the initial earning well be spud during the first half of 2012.
San Joaquin Basin. We continue to develop new prospects and acquire acreage along the west side of the San Joaquin Basin. The new prospects are a continuation of the structural and stratigraphic geologic model that we have been working on for the past nine years that has yielded recent success along the west side as demonstrated by discoveries and field development by other operators with similar geologic models.
Nevada Project
During October 2011, we entered into an agreement related to our Nevada project consisting of approximately 74,000 gross and net acres located within White Pine and Elko Counties of Nevada. The counterparty to the agreement agreed to pay all delay rentals on this acreage and we will retain a small overriding interest on any drilling projects that may occur in the future. Because we have effectively relinquished control of this acreage and the value of any potential overriding interest in the future is uncertain, we reclassified the costs of this acreage of $660,000 from unproved properties into proved properties during 2011.
Capital Expenditure Budget
Our initial capital expenditure budget for our 2012 oil and natural gas activities which is subject to final Board of Director approval has been set at $5.0 million. The 2012 capital expenditure budget will be
allocated among our drilling program which includes the drilling of 13 wells, our continued up-hole recompletion program targeting natural gas and our additional investment in existing and new California oil and natural gas prospects in the San Joaquin Basin. We expect that our 2012 capital expenditure program will be funded primarily from cash received from the Uinta Basin Transaction, cash on hand and cash flow from operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.”
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
Our estimated proved reserves and related future net revenues, PV-10 and Standardized Measure at December 31, 2011 were determined using the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the period January 2011 through December 2011, without giving effect to derivative transactions, and were held constant throughout the life of the properties. These prices, weighted by production over the lives of the proved reserves were $81.35 per Bbl for oil and oil equivalents and $3.59 per Mcf for gas.
For more information on our reserves, please read “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Production and Reserve Information.”
Company Reserve Estimates
Our proved reserve information as of December 31, 2011 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K was estimated by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), independent petroleum engineers. A copy of NSAI’s summary reserve report is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Note 21 - Supplemental Oil and Gas Reserve Information (Unaudited) to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion. In accordance with SEC guidelines, NSAI’s estimates of future net revenues from our properties, and the pre-tax present value of discounted future net cash flows (“PV-10”) and standardized measure thereof, were determined to be economically producible under existing economic conditions, which requires the use of the 12-month average price for each product, calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the period January 2011 through December 2011, except where such guidelines permit alternate treatment, including the use of fixed and determinable contractual price escalations.
The tables below set forth information as of December 31, 2011 with respect to our estimated proved reserves, the associated present value of discounted future net cash flows and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows. Neither the PV-10 nor the after-tax standardized measure is intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves we own. The average prices weighted by production over the lives of the proved reserves used in the reserve report were $3.59 per Mcf of gas and $81.35 per Bbl of oil. All of our proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2011 became uneconomic at these prices and as a result were not included in the December 31, 2011 reserve estimates.
All of our proved reserves are located within the state of Utah.
(a) Present value of discounted future net cash flows represents the estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and future development costs, using the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the period January 2011 through December 2011, without giving effect to derivative transactions, and were held constant throughout the life of the properties. The average prices weighted by production over the lives of the proved reserves used in the reserve report were $3.59 per Mcf of gas and $81.35 per Bbl of oil. All of our proved undeveloped reserves became uneconomic at these prices and as a result were not included in the December 31, 2011 reserve estimates. These prices should not be interpreted as a prediction of future prices.
Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil, condensate and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered, production and operating costs, the amount and timing of future development expenditures and future oil and natural gas sales prices may differ from those assumed in these estimates. Therefore, the PV-10 amounts shown above should not be construed as the current market value of the oil and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties.
Non-GAAP Present Value Reconciliation
Management uses discounted future net cash flows, which are calculated without deducting estimated future income tax expenses, and the present value thereof as one measure of the value of the Company’s current proved reserves and to compare relative values among peer companies without regard to income taxes. We also understand that securities analysts and rating agencies use this measure in similar ways. While future net revenue and present value are based on prices, costs and discount factors which are consistent from company to company, the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is dependent on the unique tax situation of each individual company. The PV-10 reserve measurement is considered to be a non-GAAP financial measure; however as of December 31, 2011, the PV-10 and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows are equal because the effects of estimated future income tax expenses are zero.
Qualifications of Technical Persons and Internal Controls Over Reserves Estimation Process
Our proved reserve information as of December 31, 2011 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K was estimated by our independent petroleum engineers, NSAI, in accordance with the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserve Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers and definitions and guidelines established by the SEC. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under the Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No..
Our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Michael K. Decker, is the person primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of our internal reserve estimates and for the coordination of the third-party reserve reports provided by NSAI. Mr. Decker has over 33 years of experience in the oil and gas industry ranging from exploration, development and operations to mergers and acquisitions. He holds a BS degree in Geological Engineering from the Colorado School of Mines. Prior to joining us in 2001, Mr. Decker served as the Vice President of Exploitation of Prima Energy Corporation, a NASDAQ-traded oil and gas company.
Within NSAI, the technical persons primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the NSAI report are Mr. Craig H. Adams and Mr. William J. Knights. Mr. Adams has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 1997. Mr. Adams is a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas (License No. 68137) and has over 25 years of practical experience in petroleum engineering with over 20 years experience in the estimation and evaluation of oil and gas reserves. He graduated from Texas Tech University in 1985 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Petroleum Engineering. Mr. Knights has been practicing consulting petroleum geology at NSAI since 1991. Mr. Knights is a Licensed Professional Geoscientist in the State of Texas, Geology (License No. 1532) and has over 31 years of practical experience in petroleum geosciences, with over 21 years experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. He graduated from Texas Christian University in 1981 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Geology and in 1984 with a Master of Science in Geology. Both technical principals meet or exceed the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers, and both are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
The other technical persons responsible for preparing the reserves estimates presented herein meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
We also maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who work closely with NSAI to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data furnished to NSAI in their reserves estimation process. In the fourth quarter, our technical team meets regularly with representatives of NSAI to review properties and discuss methods and assumptions used in NSAI’s preparation of the year-end reserves estimates. While we have no formal committee specifically designated to review reserves reporting and the reserves estimation process, a preliminary copy of the NSAI reserve report is reviewed by our audit committee with representatives of NSAI and internal technical staff. Additionally, our senior management reviews and approves any internally estimated significant changes to our proved reserves on a quarterly basis.
Reserve Technologies
Proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations. The term “reasonable certainty” implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities of oil and/or natural gas actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. To achieve reasonable certainty, NSAI employed technologies that have been demonstrated to yield results with consistency and repeatability. The technologies and economic data used in the estimation of our proved reserves include, but are not limited to, well logs, geologic maps and available down well and production data, seismic data and well test data.
Reserve Sensitivities
The following table discloses information regarding the sensitivity of our estimated total proved oil and gas reserves to price fluctuations.
(a) This case represents pricing under SEC rules under which the prices used are the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month prices for the period January 2011 through December 2011. The oil and gas prices used in this scenario, weighted by production over the lives of the proved reserves are $81.35 per Bbl of oil and $3.59 per Mcf of gas.
(b) Scenario 1 estimates total proved reserves assuming a 10% price increase in both the oil and the gas price used in the SEC pricing scenario.
(c) Scenario 2 estimates total proved reserves assuming a 10% price decrease in both the oil and the gas price used in the SEC pricing scenario.
Volumes, Prices and Operating Expenses
The following table presents information regarding the production volumes, average sales prices received (excluding the impact of our hedges) and average production costs for the periods presented associated with the Company’s sales of natural gas and oil for the periods indicated.
Development, Exploration and Acquisition Capital Expenditures
The following table presents information regarding the Company’s net costs incurred in the purchase of proved and unproved properties and in exploration and development activities:
Productive Oil and Gas Wells
The following summarizes the Company’s producing and shut-in oil and gas wells as of December 31, 2011, and after the closing of the transaction with Wapiti.
As of December 31, 2011, we operated 135 gross (84.3 net to our interest, or 36.9 net to our interests after the closing of the transaction with Wapiti) wells, 2 gross (2.0 net, or 1.0 net after the closing of the transaction with Wapiti) of which were drilling as of year end and began producing in January 2012, and 3 gross (3 net, or 1.5 net after the closing of the transaction with Wapiti) shut-in wells located on these properties.
Oil and Natural Gas Acreage
Exploration and Productive Acreage
The following table sets forth our ownership interest in undeveloped and developed leasehold acreage, in the areas indicated as of December 31, 2011, and after the closing of the transaction with Wapiti. The table does not include acreage that we have a contractual right to acquire or to earn through drilling projects, or any other acreage for which we have not yet received leasehold assignments. In certain leases, our ownership is not the same for all depths; therefore, the net acres in these leases are calculated using the greatest ownership interest at any depth. Generally this greater interest represents our ownership in the primary objective formation.
Undeveloped Acreage
The following table summarizes our ownership interest in the gross and net undeveloped acreage in the areas indicated that will expire in each of the next three years.
The Company’s acreage positions are maintained by the payment of delay rentals or by the existence of a producing well on the acreage. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 82% of the gross acreage that we hold is located on federal lands, approximately 17% of the acreage is located on state lands and 1% is located on land owned by individuals. It has been our experience that the permitting process related to the development of acreage on federal lands is more time consuming and expensive than the permitting process related to acreage on state lands. We have generally been able to obtain state permits within 60 days, while obtaining federal permits has taken approximately 24 months or longer. If we are delayed in procuring sufficient drilling permits for our federal properties, we will shift more of our drilling in Utah to our state leases. While such a shift in resources would not necessarily affect the rate of growth of our cash flow, it would result in a slower growth rate of our total proved reserves, because a higher percentage of the wells drilled on the state leases will be drilled on leases to which proved undeveloped reserves may already have been attributed. Additionally, if the development of our acreage located on federal lands is delayed significantly by the permitting process, we may have to operate at a loss for an extended period of time. Such delays could result in impairments of the carrying value of our unproved properties and could impact the ceiling test calculation. During 2011, we reclassified $660,000 of unproved acreage costs in Nevada into proved property as we do not have future drilling plans for this acreage. After this impairment, the aggregate carrying value of our unproved acreage is approximately $36,938,162 as of December 31, 2011.
Drilling Activity
The following table sets forth our drilling activity during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. As of December 31, 2011, we had two wells in progress and these wells were completed during January 2012.
Delivery Commitments
We entered into a Gas Processing Agreement with Chipeta, whereby we reserved 25,000 Mcf/d of capacity in the Chipeta processing plant for cryogenic processing. We agreed to pay specified processing fees per MMBtu as well as a pro rata share of all applicable electric compression costs, subject to escalation on an annual basis. We may also be required to make periodic deficiency payments to Chipeta for any shortfalls from the specified minimum volume commitments. The term of the agreement will begin upon the completion of the facility being built by Chipeta.
Please read “Item 1 - Business-2011 and Recent Highlights-Gas Processing Agreement” above for more information.
Office Space
We lease approximately 11,843 square feet of office space in Englewood, Colorado, under a lease, which terminates on May 31, 2012. The annual rent for this space during the year ended December 31, 2011 was approximately $142,000. During March 2012 we entered into a new office lease for approximately 11,170 square feet of office space in Denver, Colorado. The average annual rent expense over the term of the lease is approximately $216,000 and the new lease terminates on May 31, 2017.
ITEM 3