ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES
Petroleum and Natural Gas Properties
Riverbend Project
The Riverbend Project comprises approximately 119,932 gross acres in the Uinta Basin of northeastern Utah, of which we hold interests in approximately 84,401 net acres as of December 31, 2010. Historically, our engineering and geologic focus has been concentrated on four natural gas and condensate charged formations in the Uinta basin: the Wasatch, Mesaverde, Mancos and Blackhawk formations. A typical well drilled into these formations may encounter multiple distinct natural gas sands, silts and shales located between approximately 6,000 and 15,000 feet in depth that are completed using up to ten staged fracs.
We began an up-hole recompletion program early in February 2010. Since then, we have successfully completed the initial stages on one Upper Mancos well and recompleted 22 gross (8.5 net) wells with six gross (2.0 net) wells occurring during the fourth quarter of 2010. As of December 31, 2010, we operated 133 gross producing wells. We currently have an inventory of 19 operated wells with up-hole completion potential and one Upper Mancos well awaiting initial completion activities. We do not have a drilling rig under contract at this time, as was the case for all of 2010.
On February 25, 2010, we completed the acquisition of two wells and certain oil and gas leases (the “Petro-Canada Assets”) from Petro-Canada Resources (USA) Inc., a Colorado corporation (“Petro-Canada”), for a purchase price of approximately $482,000, subject to customary post-closing terms and conditions for transactions of this size and nature. The sale was made pursuant to a definitive agreement dated February 4, 2010 by and between us and Petro-Canada. The Petro-Canada Assets included one producing well, one shut in well with recompletion potential and 5,582 gross and net acres located in Utah west of our Gate Canyons operating area. We funded this acquisition with cash flow from operating activities.
On February 26, 2010, we completed the sale of substantially all of the assets comprising our gathering system and our evaporative facilities, located in Uintah County, Utah the (“Gathering Assets”), to Monarch Natural Gas, LLC (“Monarch”). At the closing, we received total cash consideration of approximately $23 million from Monarch, the entirety of which was used to repay amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility.
In connection with the sale of Gathering Assets, we entered into (i) a transition services agreement with Monarch pursuant to which we provided certain services relating to the operation of the Gathering Assets to Monarch for a six-month term commencing at closing (this agreement was terminated in August 2010); (ii) a gas gathering agreement with Monarch pursuant to which we dedicated the natural gas production from all of our Utah acreage and Monarch will provide gathering, compression and processing services utilizing the Gathering Assets to us; and (iii) a salt water disposal services agreement with Monarch pursuant to which we may deliver salt water produced by our operations to the evaporative facilities that Monarch acquired as part of the Gathering Assets for a minimum 15-year period.
On March 19, 2010, we closed the sale of a partial working interest in 32 wells for $1.25 million. The 32 wells were part of a joint venture project that was started in 2002 under which each of the participants received a net profits interest in these wells for a period of twelve years from initial production date. We agreed to sell our interest in these wells related to the period subsequent to the initial twelve year period to one of the joint venture participants and to convert the purchaser’s net profits interest into a working interest.
In late March, we turned on one of the wells (Gasco operated - 100% working interest) that we acquired as part of the Petro-Canada acquisition discussed above, after installing production equipment and connecting it to sales. The other well acquired in this acquisition was producing when it was purchased; however, our field personnel have optimized the production and have increased the flows rates on this well.
During 2010 we reclassified approximately $3,000,000 of unproved acreage costs primarily in Utah into proved property. This reclassification represents the value of the leases that will expire during 2011 before we are able to develop it further and a reduction in the carrying value of our acreage based on an independent acreage appraisal as of December 31, 2010.
Southern California Project
As of December 31, 2010, we had a leasehold interest in approximately 30,823 gross (11,040 net) acres in Kern and San Luis Obispo Counties of Southern California. Below is a description of the various projects in this area:
The project in our Northwest McKittrick Prospect is in its final permitting stage and we currently expect a 2011 spud date. The Northwest McKittrick Prospect lies below the McKittrick slide block and covers approximately 600 gross acres targeting oil within the Tulare, Olig, McKittrick and Stevens sands. These
sands are draped over a faulted anticlinal nose as interpreted from well data and surface geology. Our partner must carry us for a 20% working interest in three wells that will test through the Stevens sands to fully earn its 80% working interest. If no wells are drilled, we retain 100% of the prospect.
Our Southwest Cymric Prospect is an oil prospect with two traps; a shallow (approximately 2,000’) hanging wall anticline above the McKittrick fault and a footwall block (approximately 4,000’) below the fault. The traps are defined by reprocessed 2D seismic reflection lines integrated with well data and subsurface and surface geologic mapping that define the trap closures. The oil targets are the Tulare Sand, the Etchegoin Formation sand and the Antelope Shale member of the Monterey Formation. Gasco is currently seeking a partner for this prospect.
Our Willow Springs Prospect has three anticlinally-folded fault block traps located below the west dipping McKittrick thrust fault as interpreted from reprocessed 2D seismic reflection lines integrated with well data. The prospect is targeting oil within the Phacoides sandstone and the First, Second and Third sandstone members of the Point of Rocks Formation. Our partner is processing recently acquired 3D seismic data over the prospect to better define the drilling locations. Our partner must carry us for a 20% working interest in up to two wells drilled through the Third Point of Rocks sandstone (approximately 8,500’) to fully earn its 80% working interest. If no wells are drilled, we retain 100% of the prospect. The first well is anticipated to be spud before year end 2011.
Our partner in our Willow Springs Prospect also recently bought into our Antelope Valley Trend group of nine oil and gas prospects that include both shallow horizons and deeper subthrust objectives. The objectives within the Antelope Valley Trend consist of four to five sand members within the Temblor interval, including the Carneros. Our partner is currently in the process of planning and obtaining the necessary permits for a 3-D seismic shoot over this trend. The first well in this area must be spud on or before July 1, 2012 and be drilled through the Mabury Sand reservoir or to a depth of 12,000’, whichever is less. When the first well is drilled, our partner will earn approximately one half of the prospect area and an additional four to five prospects as well, depending on the results of the 3-D seismic.
Our partner will then have the option to drill a second well on or before December 31, 2012. The drilling of the second well will allow our partner to earn the remaining acreage and prospects. Our partner must carry us for a 20% working interest in each well through the tanks to fully earn its 80% working interest. Additionally we will receive a full license to the 3-D seismic data for this area. If no wells are drilled, we retain 100% of the prospect and a license to the 3D seismic data.
We continue to pursue opportunities in the western area of the San Joaquin Basin. We have identified additional leads and prospects within the overall trend of prospects defined by the Antelope Valley, Willow Springs, Northwest McKittrick and Southwest Cymric prospects. We have purchased existing seismic data and are having this data reprocessed to better define these new leads and prospects. We are also purchasing additional acreage as these prospects become defined.
Nevada Project
As of December 31, 2010 we had a leasehold interest in approximately 130,231 gross (130,041 net) acres containing ten prospects within White Pine and Elko Counties Nevada. All of the prospects are anticlinal structures identified by mapping the surface geology. The prospects are targeting oil and gas within the Guilmette and Joanna limestones and the Scotty Wash member of the Chainman Shale. We are currently seeking a drilling partner for these prospects.
Greater Green River Basin Project
During the second quarter 2010 we sold our remaining acreage in Wyoming along with our interest in two producing wells at an auction for $9,000. The low natural gas prices we were receiving in this area had made it difficult for us to find partners to participate in the drilling of wells in this area, and as a result, we reclassified all unproved leasehold costs associated with this area into proved property during 2007.
Capital Expenditure Budget
The Board of Directors approved an initial capital expenditure budget of $6 million for our 2011 oil and gas activities. We have allocated approximately $2.4 million for our continued up-hole recompletion program targeting natural gas and an additional $1.6 million for the drilling and completion of two Green River Formation oil wells. A significant portion of the remaining $2 million budget may be allocated to additional investment in existing and new California oil and gas prospects in the San Joaquin Basin. Our 2011 capital expenditure program will be funded primarily from cash on hand, cash flow from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. The initial 2011 budget will be subject to market conditions, drilling results, oilfield service availability and commodity process.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
Our estimated proved reserves and related future net revenues, PV-10 and Standardized Measure at December 31, 2010 were determined using the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the period January 2010 through December 2010, without giving effect to derivative transactions, and were held constant throughout the life of the properties. These prices, weighted by production over the lives of the proved reserves were $64.97 for oil and oil equivalents and $3.62 for gas.
For more information on our reserves, please read “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Production and Reserve Information.”
Company Reserve Estimates
Our proved reserve information as of December 31, 2010 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K was estimated by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), independent petroleum engineers. A copy of NSAI’s summary reserve report is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Note 19 “Supplemental Oil and Gas Reserve Information (Unaudited)” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion. In accordance with SEC guidelines, NSAI’s estimates of future net revenues from our properties, and the pre-tax present value of discounted future net cash flows (“PV-10”) and standardized measure thereof, were determined to be economically producible under existing economic conditions, which requires the use of the 12-month average price for each product, calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the period January 2010 through December 2010, except where such guidelines permit alternate treatment, including the use of fixed and determinable contractual price escalations.
The tables below set forth information as of December 31, 2010 with respect to our estimated proved reserves, the associated present value of discounted future net cash flows and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows. Neither the PV-10 nor the after-tax standardized measure is intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves we own. The average prices weighted by production over the lives of the proved reserves used in the reserve report were $3.62
per Mcf of gas and $64.97 per bbl of oil. All of our proved undeveloped reserves became uneconomic at these prices and as a result were not included in the December 31, 2010 reserve estimates.
All of our proved reserves are located within the state of Utah.
(a) Present value of discounted future net cash flows represents the estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and future development costs, using the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the period January 2010 through December 2010, without giving effect to derivative transactions, and were held constant throughout the life of the properties. The average prices weighted by production over the lives of the proved reserves used in the reserve report were of $3.62 per Mcf of gas and $64.97 per bbl of oil. All of our proved undeveloped reserves became uneconomic at these prices and as a result were not included in the December 31, 2010 reserve estimates. These prices should not be interpreted as a prediction of future prices.
Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil, condensate and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered, production and operating costs, the amount and timing of future development expenditures and future oil and natural gas sales prices may differ from those assumed in these estimates. Therefore, the PV-10 amounts shown above should not be construed as the current market value of the oil and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties.
Non-GAAP Present Value Reconciliation
Management uses discounted future net cash flows, which is calculated without deducting estimated future income tax expenses, and the present value thereof as one measure of the value of the Company’s current proved reserves and to compare relative values among peer companies without regard to income taxes. We also understand that securities analysts and rating agencies use this measure in similar ways. While future net revenue and present value are based on prices, costs and discount factors which are consistent from company to company, the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is dependent on the unique tax situation of each individual company. The PV-10 reserve measurement is considered to be a non-GAAP financial measure; however as of December 31, 2010, the PV-10 and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows are equal because the effects of estimated future income tax expenses are zero.
Qualifications of Technical Persons and Internal Controls Over Reserves Estimation Process
Our proved reserve information as of December 31, 2010 included in this Annual Report was estimated by our independent petroleum engineers, NSAI, in accordance with the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserve Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers and definitions and guidelines established by the SEC. NSAI was founded in 1961 and
performs consulting petroleum engineering services under the Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No..
Our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Operations, Michael K. Decker, is the person primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of our internal reserve estimates and for the coordination of the third-party reserve reports provided by NSAI. Mr. Decker has over 30 years of experience in the oil and gas industry ranging from exploration, development, operations to mergers and acquisitions. He holds a BS degree in Geological Engineering from the Colorado School of Mines. Prior to joining us in 2001, Mr. Decker served as the Vice President of Exploitation of Prima Energy Corporation, a NASDAQ traded oil and gas company.
Within NSAI, the technical persons primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the NSAI report are Mr. Craig Adams and Mr. William Knights. Mr. Adams is a Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Texas (License No. 68137) and has over 25 years of practical experience in petroleum engineering with over 20 years experience in the estimation and evaluation of oil and gas reserves. He graduated from Texas Tech University in Texas in 1985 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Petroleum Engineering and is a member of the International Society of Petroleum Engineers. Mr. Knights is a Certified Petroleum Geologist and Geophysicist in the State of Texas (License No. 1532) and has over 29 years of practical experience in petroleum geosciences in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. He graduated from Texas Christian University in 1981 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Geology and in 1984 with a Master of Science in Geology. Both technical principals meet or exceed the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; both are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines.
The other technical persons responsible for preparing the reserves estimates presented herein meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
We also maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who work closely with NSAI to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data furnished to NSAI in their reserves estimation process. In the fourth quarter, our technical team meets regularly with representatives of NSAI to review properties and discuss methods and assumptions used in NSAI’s preparation of the year-end reserves estimates. While we have no formal committee specifically designated to review reserves reporting and the reserves estimation process, a preliminary copy of the NSAI reserve report is reviewed by our audit committee with representatives of NSAI and internal technical staff. Additionally, our senior management reviews and approves any internally estimated significant changes to our proved reserves on a quarterly basis.
Reserve Technologies
Proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations. The term “reasonable certainty” implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities of oil and/or natural gas actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. To achieve reasonable certainty, NSAI employed technologies that have been demonstrated to yield results with consistency and repeatability. The technologies and economic data used in the estimation of our proved
reserves include, but are not limited to, well logs, geologic maps and available down well and production data, seismic data, well test data.
Reserve Sensitivities
The following table discloses information regarding the sensitivity of our estimated total proved oil and gas reserves to price fluctuations.
(a) This case represents pricing under SEC rules under which the prices used are the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month prices for the period January 2010 through December 2010. The oil and gas prices used in this scenario, weighted by production over the lives of the proved reserves are $64.97 per bbl of oil and $3.62 per Mcf of gas.
(b) Scenario 1 estimates total proved reserves assuming a 10% price increase in both the oil and the gas price used in the SEC pricing scenario.
(c) Scenario 2 estimates total proved reserves assuming a 10% price decrease in both the oil and the gas price used in the SEC pricing scenario.
Volumes, Prices and Operating Expenses
The following table presents information regarding the production volumes, average sales prices received and average production costs for the periods presented associated with the Company’s sales of natural gas and oil for the periods indicated.
Development, Exploration and Acquisition Capital Expenditures
The following table presents information regarding the Company’s net costs incurred in the purchase of proved and unproved properties and in exploration and development activities:
Productive Oil and Gas Wells
The following summarizes the Company’s productive and shut-in oil and gas wells as of December 31, 2010.
As of December 31, 2010, we operated 133 gross (79.4 net to our interest) producing wells and 3 gross (3 net) shut-in wells located on these properties.
Oil and Gas Acreage
Exploration and Productive Acreage
The following table sets forth our ownership interest in undeveloped and developed leasehold acreage, in the areas indicated as of December 31, 2010. The table does not include acreage that we have a contractual right to acquire or to earn through drilling projects, or any other acreage for which we have not yet received leasehold assignments. In certain leases, our ownership is not the same for all depths; therefore, the net acres in these leases are calculated using the greatest ownership interest at any depth. Generally this greater interest represents our ownership in the primary objective formation.
Undeveloped Acreage
The following table summarizes our ownership interest in the gross and net undeveloped acreage in the areas indicated that will expire in each of the next three years.
The Company’s acreage positions are maintained by the payment of delay rentals or by the existence of a producing well on the acreage. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 82% of the gross acreage that we hold is located on federal lands and approximately 17% of the acreage is located on state lands. It has been our experience that the permitting process related to the development of acreage on federal lands is more time consuming and expensive than the permitting process related to acreage on state lands. We have generally been able to obtain state permits within 60 days, while obtaining federal permits has taken approximately 24 months or longer. If we are delayed in procuring sufficient drilling permits for our federal properties, we will shift more of our drilling in Utah to our state leases. While such a shift in resources would not necessarily affect the rate of growth of our cash flow, it would result in a slower growth rate of our total proved reserves, because a higher percentage of the wells drilled on the state leases will be drilled on leases to which proved undeveloped reserves may already have been attributed. Additionally, if the development of our acreage located on federal lands is delayed significantly by the permitting process, we may have to operate at a loss for an extended period of time. Such delays could result in impairments of the carrying value of our unproved properties and could impact the ceiling test calculation. During 2010 we reclassified approximately $3,000,000 of unproved acreage costs primarily in Utah into proved property. This reclassification represents the value of the leases that will expire during 2011 before we are able to develop them further and a reduction in the carrying value of our acreage based on an independent acreage appraisal as of December 31, 2010. After this impairment, the aggregate carrying value of our unproved acreage is approximately $35,941,100 as of December 31, 2010.
Drilling Activity
The following table sets forth our drilling activity during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. As of December 31, 2010, we had no wells in progress.
Office Space
We lease approximately 11,843 square feet of office space in Englewood, Colorado, under a lease, which terminates on May 31, 2011. The average rent for this space during the year ended December 31, 2010 was approximately $204,900. During December 2010, we extended our current lease through May 31, 2012 at an annual rate of approximately $161,700.
ITEM 3