ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
PSEG
PSEG does not own any property. All property is owned by its subsidiaries.
PSE&G
PSE&G’s First and Refunding Mortgage (Mortgage), securing the bonds issued thereunder, constitutes a direct first mortgage lien on substantially all of PSE&G’s property.
The electric lines and gas mains of PSE&G are located over or under public highways, streets, alleys or lands, except where they are located over or under property owned by PSE&G or occupied by it under easements or other rights. These easements and rights are deemed by PSE&G to be adequate for the purposes for which they are being used.
PSE&G believes that it maintains adequate insurance coverage against loss or damage to its principal properties, subject to certain exceptions, to the extent such property is usually insured and insurance is available at a reasonable cost.
Electric Transmission and Distribution Properties
As of December 31, 2002, PSE&G’s transmission and distribution system included approximately 21,873 circuit miles, of which approximately 7,518 circuit miles were underground, and approximately 781,041 poles, of which approximately 536,260 poles were jointly owned. Approximately 99% of this property is located in New Jersey.
In addition, as of December 31, 2002, PSE&G owned five electric distribution headquarters and four subheadquarters in four operating divisions, all located in New Jersey.
Gas Distribution Properties
As of December 31, 2002, the daily gas capacity of PSE&G’s 100%-owned peaking facilities (the maximum daily gas delivery available during the three peak winter months) consisted of liquid petroleum air gas (LPG) and liquefied natural gas (LNG) and aggregated 2,973,000 therms (approximately 2,886,000 cubic feet on an equivalent basis of 1,030 Btu/cubic foot) as shown in the following table:
As of December 31, 2002, PSE&G owned and operated approximately 17,019 miles of gas mains, owned 11 gas distribution headquarters and two subheadquarters, all in two operating regions located in New Jersey and owned one meter shop in New Jersey serving all such areas. In addition, PSE&G operated 61 natural gas metering or regulating stations, all located in New Jersey, of which 28 were located on land owned by customers or natural gas pipeline companies supplying PSE&G with natural gas and were operated under lease, easement or other similar arrangement. In some instances, the pipeline companies owned portions of the metering and regulating facilities.
Office Buildings and Facilities
PSE&G leases substantially all of a 26-story office tower for its corporate headquarters at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey, together with an adjoining three-story building. PSE&G also leases other office space at various locations throughout New Jersey for district offices and offices for various corporate groups and services. PSE&G also owns various other sites for training, testing, parking, records storage, research, repair and maintenance, warehouse facilities and for other purposes related to its business.
In addition to the facilities discussed above, as of December 31, 2002, PSE&G owned 41 switching stations in New Jersey with an aggregate installed capacity of 20,934 megavolt-amperes and 241 substations with an aggregate installed capacity of 7,503 megavolt-amperes. In addition, 5 substations in New Jersey having an aggregate installed capacity of 127 megavolt-amperes were operated on leased property.
Power
Power rents approximately 137,000 square feet of office space from PSE&G at its headquarters in Newark, New Jersey. Other leased properties include office, warehouse, classroom and storage space, primarily in New Jersey, used for system maintenance, procurement and materials management staff, training and storage.
Through a subsidiary, Power owns a 57.41% interest in approximately 12,000 acres of restored wetlands and conservation facilities in the Delaware River Estuary that was formed to acquire and own lands and other conservation facilities required to satisfy the condition of the NJPDES permit issued for Salem. Power also owns several other facilities, including the on-site Nuclear Administration and Processing Center buildings.
Power has an 13.91% ownership interest in the 650-acre Merrill Creek Reservoir in Warren County, New Jersey. The reservoir was constructed to store water for release to the Delaware River during periods of low flow. Merrill Creek is jointly owned by seven companies that have generation facilities along the Delaware River or its tributaries and use the river water in their operations. Power also owns the Maplewood Test Services in Maplewood, New Jersey and the Central Maintenance Shop at Sewaren, New Jersey.
Power believes that it maintains adequate insurance coverage against loss or damage to its principal plants and properties, subject to certain exceptions, to the extent such property is usually insured and insurance is available at a reasonable cost. For a discussion of nuclear insurance, see Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities of the Notes.
As of December 31, 2002, Power’s share of installed generating capacity was 13,055 MW, as shown in the following table:
(A) Operated by Reliant Resources
(B) Operated by Exelon Generation LLC
(C) Operated by Jersey Central Power & Light Company
(D) Excludes energy for pumping and synchronous condensers.
(E) These assets are scheduled for retirement within the next three years, partially dependent upon new generation going into service discussed below.
As of December 31, 2002, Power had 4,037 MW of generating capacity in construction or advanced development, as shown in the following table:
Energy Holdings
Energy Holdings rents office space for its corporate headquarters at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey from PSE&G. Energy Holdings’ subsidiaries also lease office space at various locations throughout the world to support business activities. Energy Holdings believes that it maintains adequate insurance coverage for properties in which its subsidiaries have an equity interest, subject to certain exceptions, to the extent such property is usually insured and insurance is available at a reasonable cost.
Global has invested in the following generation facilities, which are in operation or under construction as of December 31, 2002:
Global has invested in the following generation facilities which are under construction as of December 31, 2002:
(A) In November 2002, Global sold its interest in the generating station, Kennebec (Maine) to United American Energy Corp.
(B) Tanir Bavi (India) was sold in October 2002 to GMR Vasavi Group. Also during 2002, assets in Argentina were fully impaired. See Note 4. Asset Impairments and Note 5. Discontinued Operations of the Notes.
(C) All Prisma assets are currently held for sale.
Domestic Generation In Operation
Texas Independent Energy, L.P. (TIE)
In April 1999, Global and its partner, Panda Energy International, Inc., established TIE, a 50/50 joint venture, which owns and operates electric generation facilities in Guadalupe County in south central Texas (Guadalupe) and Odessa in western Texas (Odessa).
Approximately 37.5% of the Guadalupe plant’s total output for 2003 has been sold via bilateral power purchase agreements and the remainder will be sold in the Texas spot market. In 2002, the plant generated approximately $145 million of gross revenue.
Approximately 9.6% of the Odessa plant’s total output for 2003 has been sold via bilateral power purchase agreements. The balance of the output will be sold on a spot or short-term basis into the Texas power market. In 2002, the plant generated approximately $161 million of gross revenue. For a discussion of the Texas power market, see Item 7. MD&A - Future Outlook.
Kalaeloa
Global’s partner in Kalaeloa is a power fund managed by Harbert Power. All of the electricity generated by the Kalaeloa power plant is sold to the Hawaiian Electric Company under a power purchase contract terminating in May 2016. Under a steam purchase and sale agreement expiring in May 2016, the Kalaeloa power plant supplies steam to Hawaiian Independent Refinery, Inc. In 2002, the plant generated approximately $108 million of gross revenue. The plant availability factor in 2002 was 99%.
GWF Power Systems LP (GWF) and Hanford LP (Hanford)
Global and Harbert Power each own 50% of the GWF plants. Power purchase contracts for the plants’ net output are in place with Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) ending in 2020 and 2021. In 2002, the plants generated approximately $62 million of gross revenue. The average availability factor of the five plants in 2002 was 95%.
Global and Harbert Power each own 50% of Hanford. A power purchase contract for the plant’s net output is in place with PG&E through 2011. The Hanford plant generated approximately $16 million of gross revenue in 2002 and had an availability factor of 97%.
In July 2001, GWF, Hanford and the Tracy biomass plant entered into an agreement with PG&E and amendments to their power purchase agreements with PG&E that contained the Public Utilities Commission of the State of California approved pricing for a term of five years commencing July 16, 2001.
Hanford and Henrietta Peaker Plants
In May 2001 GWF Energy LLC (GWF Energy), a 50/50 joint venture between Global and Harbinger GWF LLC (an affiliate of Harbert Power), entered into a 10-year power purchase agreement with the California Department of Water Resources (DWR) to provide 340 MW of electric capacity to California from three new natural gas-fired peaking plants. As of December 31, 2002, Global’s ownership interest in this project was 76%. Energy and capacity not scheduled by the DWR is available for sale by GWF Energy. Two of the plants, the Hanford and Henrietta Peaking plants, have commenced commercial operation, and had approximately $25 million and $22 million in gross revenue, respectively, during 2002.
For further information, see Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities of the Notes.
International Generation in Operation
Global owns interests in operating generation facilities in China, India, Italy, Peru, Poland, Tunisia and Venezuela. In October 2002, a settlement was reached between AES Corporation (AES) and Global under which Global will transfer its minority ownership interests in certain Argentine assets to AES. For more details, see Note 4. Asset Impairments of the Notes.
China
Meiya Power Company Limited (MPC)
Global’s activities in China and surrounding countries are conducted through MPC, a joint venture with the Asian Infrastructure Fund (AIF) and Hydro Quebec International (HQI).
MPC is focused on developing, acquiring, owning and operating electric and thermal heat generation facilities in China, South Korea and Taiwan. MPC seeks to structure long-term power purchase contracts with its customers and to incorporate take-or-pay and minimum take provisions to support debt service and a specified equity return. Pricing terms for energy from its facilities generally include a base price and indexed adjustments to compensate for changes in inflation, foreign currency exchange rates up to the minimum equity return and laws affecting taxes, fees and required reserves. For cogeneration facilities, instead of selling the electricity through long-term power purchase contracts, MPC sells its output through an annually determined quota fixed in accordance with a predetermined formula which essentially determines the amount of electricity to be sold by reference to the amount of steam generated by the cogeneration facilities. The two cogeneration plants in Tongzhou and Nantong operate under this system. MPC’s projects, either under construction or in operation, have obtained all the required approvals to enable issuance of a business license in their respective localities.
Minority investments held by Global in nine generation facilities located in China generated 2% of Global’s total gross revenues in 2002.
India
PPN Power Generating Company Limited (PPN)
Global owns a 20% interest in PPN located in Tamil Nadu, India. Global’s partners include Marubeni Corporation, with a 26% interest, El Paso Energy Corporation, with a 26% interest and the Reddy Group, with a 28% interest. PPN has entered into a power purchase contract for the sale of 100% of the output to the State Electricity Board of Tamil Nadu (TNEB) for 30 years, with an agreement to take-or-pay to a plant load factor (PLF) of 85%.
Peru
Empresa de Electricidad de los Andes S.A. (Electroandes)
Electroandes’ main assets include four hydroelectric facilities with a combined installed capacity of 183 MW and 460 miles of transmission lines located in the central Andean region (northeast of Lima). In addition, Electroandes has a temporary concession to develop two greenfield hydroelectric facilities totaling 180 MW and expansion projects on existing stations totaling 100 MW. These concessions expire in March 2003, but are renewable for two additional years. In 2002, 91% of Electroandes revenues were obtained through power purchase agreements with mining companies in the region. Electroandes generated approximately $45 million of gross revenue in 2002.
Venezuela
Turbogeneradores de Maracay (TGM)
Global, with a 9% interest, is in partnership with Corporacion Industrial de Energia (CIE), to own TGM. TGM sells all of the energy produced under contract to Manufacturas del Papel (MANPA), a paper manufacturing concern located in Maracay. MANPA and CIE have common controlling shareholders.
Turboven
The facilities in Cagua and Maracay are owned and operated by Turboven, an entity which is jointly owned by Global and CIE. To date, power purchase contracts have been entered into for the sale of approximately 70% of the output of Maracay and Cagua, to various industrial customers. The power purchase contracts are structured to provide energy only with minimum take provisions. Fuel costs are passed through directly to customers and the energy tariffs are calculated in US Dollars and paid in local currency. In 2002, the plants in Maracay and Cagua generated $20 million of gross revenue.
Poland
Elcho
In October 2000, Global acquired a 55% economic interest in a combined thermal energy and power generation plant in Chorzow, in the Upper Silesia region of Poland, with Elektrownia Chorzow holding the remaining interest. As a part of the acquisition of the existing plant, Global obtained the rights to construct, and is constructing, a 220 MW electrical and 500 MW thermal combined thermal energy and power plant in Chorzow. Global currently holds a 55% economic interest in Elektrocieplownia Chorzow Sp. z.o.o. (ELCHO), including both the old plant and the plant under construction, with the anticipation of expanding such interest to approximately 90% by 2003. Global intends to operate the existing plant until the new plant comes on line in late 2003. Polskie Sieci Elektroenergetyczne SA (PSE), the Polish power grid company, has signed a long-term power purchase agreement with ELCHO and it is planned for all of the power to be delivered into the local distribution system. During 2002, the existing plant generated approximately $21 million of gross revenue. As of December 31, 2002, Energy Holdings’ investment exposure, including contingencies, was $80 million.
Skawina CHP Plant (Skawina)
During 2002, Global acquired a 50% interest in Skawina, a combined thermal energy and power generation, for $31 million and will purchase additional shares in 2003 that will bring Global’s aggregate interest in Skawina to approximately 65%. In addition, Global has an obligation to offer to purchase an additional 10% ownership from Skawina’s employees in 2004 for a total potential ownership in Skawina of 75%. Skawina supplies electricity to three local distribution companies and heat mainly to the city of Krakow, under one-year contracts consistent with current practice in Poland. The sale is part of the Polish Government’s energy privatization program. During 2002, the plant generated approximately $49 million of gross revenue. As of December 31, 2002, Energy Holdings, investment exposure, including contingencies, was $90 million.
Tunisia
Rades
Global and its partner Marubeni Corporation own 60% and 40%, respectively, of the Carthage Power facility in Rades, Tunisia for which Global is the operator. A 20-year power purchase contract has been entered into for the sale of 100% of the output to Societe Tunisienne d’Electricite et du Gaz, the national utility. The tariff in the power purchase contract consists of a fixed capacity charge to cover debt and equity return as well as fixed and variable charges to cover fuel, operations and maintenance costs. Each tariff component will be paid in local currency (Dinars). Rades commenced operation in May 2002 and generated approximately $57 million of gross revenue in 2002.
Power Plants Under Construction
Global has eight projects in construction located in the United States, China, Italy, Oman, Poland, South Korea and Taiwan. All of these plants have obtained power purchase contracts for their output. The two projects under construction in Italy are currently held for sale.
United States
Tracy Peaker Plant
The Tracy Peaker Plant is under construction with a commercial operation date deadline of July 1, 2003. Total project cost is expected to be $146 million. For additional information, see Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities of the Notes.
Oman
Salalah
In March 2001, Global, through Dhofar Power Company (DPCO), signed a 20-year concession with the government of Oman to privatize the electric system of Salalah. A consortium led by Global (81% ownership) and several major Omani investment groups owns DPCO. The project is expected to achieve commercial operation by April 2003. Total project cost is estimated at $256 million. Global’s equity investment, including contingencies and equity guarantees, is expected to be approximately $97 million. As of December 31, 2002, Energy Holdings’ investment exposure, including contingencies, was $39 million.
Poland
Elcho
Global’s 220 MW (electrical) and 500 MW (thermal) facility will replace an existing 100 MW thermal energy and power generation facility. Global’s economic interest in the project is currently 55%, with the anticipation of expanding such interest to approximately 90% by the end of 2003, with the balance held by a local Polish company. Total project cost is estimated at $324 million. Global’s equity investment, including contingencies, is not expected to exceed $105 million. The plant has a targeted commercial operation date in late 2003. PSE, the Polish power grid company, has entered into a 20-year power purchase agreement with ELCHO for 100% of the electrical output. All
of the thermal energy will be sold to Przedsiebiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej, the district heating company for a term of 20 years.
Taiwan
Kuo Kuang
Through MPC, Global owns a 17.5% indirect interest in a gas-fired combined-cycle electric generation facility under construction in Kuo Kuang, Taiwan. MPC has a 35% interest in Kuo Kuang and partners with two local Taiwanese companies, Chinese Petroleum Corporation and CTCI Corporation. Kuo Kuang has entered into a 25-year power purchase contract for the sale of 100% of its electric output to Taiwan Power Company, the national utility. The power purchase contract payments consist of a fixed capacity charge to cover debt and equity return as well as fixed and variable charges to cover fuel, operations and maintenance costs. The tariff will be paid in local currency. Kuo Kuang is expected to be in operation in 2003, with a total cost of approximately $320 million. Global’s equity investment, including contingencies, is expected to be approximately $20 million.
South Korea
Yulchon
Through MPC, Global owns a 50% indirect interest in Yulchon Generation Company, a gas-fired combined-cycle plant under construction in South Korea. Open cycle operation of the plant is scheduled for mid-2004, with conversion to combined-cycle operation scheduled for mid-2005. The power will be purchased by state-owned Korea Electric Power Company under a long-term power purchase contract. The total cost of the project is expected to be $301 million, and will be provided by debt funds from project finance sources and equity funds from MPC.
Electric Distribution Facilities
Global has invested in the following distribution facilities:
Brazil
Rio Grande Energia (RGE)
Together with VBC Energia, a consortium of Brazilian companies formed to invest in electric privatization, and Previ, the largest pension fund in Brazil, Global acquired RGE in 1997. Global is the named operator for the system. A shareholders’ agreement establishes corporate governance, voting rights and key financial provisions. Global has veto rights over certain actions, including approval of the annual budget and financing plan, executive officers, significant investments or acquisitions, sale or encumbrance of assets, establishment of guarantees, amendment of the concession agreement and dividend policies. Day-to-day operations are the responsibility of RGE, subject to partnership oversight. During 2001, VBC Energia and Previ transferred their shares to Companhia Paulista de Forcae Luz (CPFL), an electric distribution company in which each of VBC Energia and Previ have an interest.
RGE operates under a non-exclusive territorial concession agreement ending in 2027. The concession is non-exclusive in that the distribution system must provide large consumers the right to choose another provider of energy or to self-generate. Global does not believe this represents a substantial threat to the profitability of the distribution system in Brazil since the tariff structure provides the distribution system the opportunity to recover all costs associated with distribution service plus a return. RGE secures its energy supply through contractual agreements expiring between 2007 and 2020. RGE will also purchase 20% of its energy requirements through 2013 under the terms of contracts, which are denominated in US Dollars. During 2002, RGE generated $430 million in gross revenue.
See Note 4. Asset Impairments of the Notes for a discussion of the goodwill impairment recorded for RGE. For a discussion of the Brazilian regulatory environment, see Item 1. Business - Regulatory Issues and Item 7. MD&A - Future Outlook.
Chile
Chilquinta Energia S.A. (Chilquinta) and Luz del Sur (LDS)
Global together with its partner, Sempra, jointly own 99.99% of the shares of Chilquinta, an energy distribution company with numerous energy holdings, based in Valparaiso, Chile. In addition, Global and Sempra jointly own 87.9% of LDS, which owns electric distribution facilities in Peru.
As equal partners, Global and Sempra share in the management of Chilquinta, however, Sempra has assumed lead operational responsibilities at Chilquinta, while Global has assumed lead operational responsibilities at LDS. The shareholders’ agreement gives Global important veto rights over major partnership decisions including dividend policy, budget approvals, management appointments and indebtedness.
In 2002, Chilquinta generated approximately $132 million in gross revenues. Chilquinta operates under a non-exclusive perpetual franchise within Chile’s Region V which is located just north and west of Santiago. Global believes that direct competition for distribution customers would be uneconomical for potential competitors. LDS operates under an exclusive, perpetual franchise in the southern portion of the city of Lima and in an area just south of the city along the coast serving a population of approximately 3.2 million. In 2002, LDS generated gross revenues of approximately $312 million. Both Chilquinta and LDS purchase energy for distribution from generators in their respective markets on a contract basis.
For a discussion of the regulatory environment in Chile and Peru, see Item 1. Business - Regulatory Issues.
Sociedad Austral de Electricidad S.A. (SAESA)
In 2001, Global purchased a 99.9% equity in SAESA and its subsidiaries from Compañia de Petróleos de Chile S.A. (COPEC). The SAESA group of companies consists of four distribution companies and one transmission company that provide electric service to 390 cities and towns over 900 miles between Bulnes in the VIII Region and Cochrane in the XI Region of southern Chile. Additionally, Global purchased from COPEC approximately 14% of Empresa Eléctrica de la Frontera S.A. (Frontel), not already owned by SAESA, to bring Global’s total interest in Frontel to 95.5%.
Through its affiliated company Sistema de Transmission del Sur S.A. (STS), SAESA provides transmission services to electrical generation facilities that have power purchase arrangements with distributors in Regions VIII, IX and X and has current capacity of 673 MVA.
SAESA also owns a 50% interest in an Argentine distribution company, Empresa de Energia Rio Negro S.A. (EDERSA) which provides generation, transmission and distribution services to 66 communities in the Province of Rio Negro, which is located close to Argentina’s principal oil and gas reserves and has more than 600,000 residents.
SAESA and its Chilean affiliates are organized and administered according to a centralized administrative structure designed to maximize operational synergies. In Argentina, EDERSA has its own independent administrative structure.
During 2002, SAESA’s generated revenues of approximately $146 million, serving 660,000 customers.
Argentina
EDEN, EDES and EDELAP
In October 2002, a settlement was reached under which Global will transfer its minority interest in the assets of Empresa Distribuidora de Energia Norte S.A. (EDEN), Empresa Distribuidora de Energia Norte S.A. (EDES) Empresa Distribuidora La Plata S.A. (EDELAP) and other investments to Global’s partner, AES. For more details, see Note 4. Asset Impairments of the Notes.
EDEERSA
Global has an ownership interest in Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad de Entre Rios S.A. (EDEERSA). As of June 30, 2002, Global determined that its investment in EDEERSA was completely impaired under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144. For a detailed discussion, see Note 4. Asset Impairments and Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities of the Notes.
ITEM 3.