ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Substantially all of Devon's properties consist of interests in developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases and mineral acreage located in Devon's core operating areas and mid-stream assets. These interests entitle Devon to drill for and produce oil, natural gas and NGLs from specific areas. Devon's interests are mostly in the form of working interests and, to a lesser extent, overriding royalty, volumetric production payments, foreign government concessions, mineral and net profits interests and other forms of direct and indirect ownership in oil and gas properties.
Devon's most significant midstream asset is its 3,100 mile Bridgeport pipeline system and 650 MMcfd Bridgeport gas processing plant located in North Texas.
PROVED RESERVES AND ESTIMATED FUTURE NET REVENUE
Set forth below is a summary of the reserves which were evaluated by independent petroleum consultants for each of the years ended 2002, 2001 and 2000.
Estimated reserves are those quantities of reserves which were estimated by an independent petroleum consultant. Audited reserves are those quantities of reserves which were estimated by Devon employees and audited by an independent petroleum consultant.
The domestic reserves were evaluated by the independent petroleum consultants of LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. and Ryder Scott Company Petroleum Consultants in each of the years presented. The Canadian reserves were estimated by the independent petroleum consultants of AJM Petroleum Consultants in 2002; Paddock Lindstrom & Associates and Gilbert Laustsen Jung Associates, Ltd. in 2001; and Paddock Lindstrom & Associates in 2000. The International reserves were estimated by the independent petroleum consultants of Ryder Scott Company Petroleum Consultants in each of the years presented.
The following table sets forth Devon's estimated proved reserves, the estimated future net revenues therefrom and the 10% Present Value thereof as of December 31, 2002. These estimates correspond with the method used in presenting the "Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Operations" in Note 14 to
Devon's Consolidated Financial Statements included herein, except that federal income taxes attributable to such future net revenues have been disregarded in the presentation below.
- ---------------
(1) Gas reserves are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of natural gas to oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas to oil prices. NGL reserves are converted to Boe on a one-to-one basis with oil. The respective prices of gas and oil are affected by market conditions and other factors in addition to relative energy content.
(2) Estimated future net revenue represents estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and development costs. The amounts shown do not give effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses not related directly to oil and gas producing, debt service and future income tax expense or to depreciation, depletion and amortization.
These amounts were calculated using prices and costs in effect as of December 31, 2002. These prices were not changed except where different prices were fixed and determinable from applicable contracts. These assumptions yield average prices over the life of Devon's properties of $27.99 per Bbl of oil, $3.88 per Mcf of natural gas and $17.07 per Bbl of NGLs. These prices compare to December 31, 2002, New York Mercantile Exchange prices of $31.20 per Bbl for crude oil and of $4.74 per MMBtu for natural gas.
(3) See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.
No estimates of Devon's proved reserves have been filed with or included in reports to any federal or foreign governmental authority or agency since the beginning of the last fiscal year except (i) in filings with the SEC and Canadian Securities Regulators and (ii) in filings with the Department of Energy ("DOE"). Reserve estimates filed by Devon with the SEC and Canadian Securities Regulators correspond with the estimates of Devon reserves contained herein. Reserve estimates filed with the DOE are based upon the same underlying technical and economic assumptions as the estimates of Devon's reserves included herein. However, the DOE requires reports to include the interests of all owners in wells that Devon operates and to exclude all interests in wells that Devon does not operate.
The prices used in calculating the estimated future net revenues attributable to proved reserves do not necessarily reflect market prices for oil, gas and NGL production subsequent to December 31, 2002. There can be no assurance that all of the proved reserves will be produced and sold within the periods indicated, that the assumed prices will be realized or that existing contracts will be honored or judicially enforced.
The process of estimating oil, gas and NGLs reserves is complex, requiring significant subjective decisions in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. The data for a given reservoir may change substantially over time as a result of, among other things, additional development activity, production history and viability of production under varying economic conditions. Consequently, material revisions to existing reserve estimates may occur in the future.
PRODUCTION, REVENUE AND PRICE HISTORY
Certain information concerning oil and natural gas production, prices, revenues (net of all royalties, overriding royalties and other third party interests) and operating expenses for the three years ended December 31, 2002, is set forth in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
WELL STATISTICS
The following table sets forth Devon's producing wells as of December 31, 2002:
- ---------------
(1) Gross wells are the total number of wells in which Devon owns a working interest.
(2) Net refers to gross wells multiplied by Devon's fractional working interests therein.
Devon also held numerous overriding royalty interests in oil and gas wells, a portion of which are convertible to working interests after recovery of certain costs by third parties. After converting to working interests, these overriding royalty interests will be included in Devon's gross and net well count.
DEVELOPED AND UNDEVELOPED ACREAGE
The following table sets forth Devon's developed and undeveloped oil and gas lease and mineral acreage as of December 31, 2002.
- ---------------
(1) Gross acres are the total number of acres in which Devon owns a working interest.
(2) Net refers to gross acres multiplied by Devon's fractional working interests therein.
OPERATION OF PROPERTIES
The day-to-day operations of oil and gas properties are the responsibility of an operator designated under pooling or operating agreements. The operator supervises production, maintains production records, employs field personnel and performs other functions. The charges under operating agreements customarily vary with the depth and location of the well being operated.
Devon is the operator of 14,001 of its wells. As operator, Devon receives reimbursement for direct expenses incurred in the performance of its duties as well as monthly per-well producing and drilling overhead reimbursement at rates customarily charged in the area to or by unaffiliated third parties. In presenting its financial data, Devon records the monthly overhead reimbursements as a reduction of general and administrative expense, which is a common industry practice.
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
Devon's North American properties are concentrated within five geographic areas. Operations in the United States are focused in the Permian Basin, the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains and onshore and offshore Gulf Coast regions. Canadian operations are focused in the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin in Alberta and British Columbia. Operations outside North America currently include Azerbaijan, Brazil, China and West Africa. Maintaining a tight geographic focus in selected core areas has allowed Devon to improve operating and capital efficiency.
UNITED STATES PROPERTIES
The Permian Basin
The Permian Basin includes portions of Southeast New Mexico and West Texas. These assets include conventional oil and gas properties from a wide variety of geologic formations and productive depths. The Permian Basin represented 9% of Devon's proved reserves at December 31, 2002.
Devon's leasehold position in Southeast New Mexico encompasses more than 102,000 acres of developed lands and 237,000 acres of undeveloped land and minerals. Historically, Devon has been a very active operator in this area developing gas from the high productivity Morrow formation and oil in the lower risk Delaware formation.
In the West Texas area of the Permian Basin, Devon maintains a base of oil production with long-life reserves. Many of these reserves are from both operated and non-operated positions in large enhanced oil recovery units such as the Wasson ODC Unit, the Willard Unit, the Reeves Unit, the North Welch Unit and the Anton Irish (Clearfork) Unit. These oil-producing units often exhibit long lives with low decline rates. Devon also owns a significant acreage position in West Texas with over 194,000 acres of developed lands and over 224,000 acres of undeveloped land and minerals at December 31, 2002.
Mid-Continent
The Mid-Continent region includes portions of Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Mississippi and Louisiana. These areas encompass a wide variety of geologic formations and productive depths and produce both oil and natural gas. Devon's Mid-Continent production has historically come from conventional oil and gas properties, but Devon has recently established two non-conventional gas operations in the Mid-Continent region: the Barnett Shale and the Cherokee coalbed methane project. The Mid-Continent region represented 30% of Devon's proved reserves at December 31, 2002.
The most significant asset acquired by Devon in its 2002 acquisition of Mitchell was a substantial interest in the Barnett Shale of North Texas. The Barnett Shale is known as a tight gas formation. This means that, in its natural state, the formation is resistant to the production of natural gas. Mitchell spent decades understanding how to efficiently develop and produce this gas. The resulting technology yielded a low-risk and highly profitable natural gas operation. Devon holds 525,000 net acres and over 1,100 producing wells in the Barnett Shale. Devon's average working interest is approximately 95%. The Barnett Shale is a unique, unconventional natural gas resource that offers immediate low-risk production growth and the potential for additional drilling locations.
Devon has experienced success extracting gas from the Barnett Shale by using light sand fracturing. Light sand fracturing yields better results than earlier techniques and is less expensive and can be used to complete new wells and to refracture existing wells. Refractured wells often exceed their original flow rates. Devon is also investigating horizontal drilling and closer well spacing to further enhance the value of the Barnett Shale.
Devon's marketing and midstream business transports, treats and processes its Barnett Shale production along with Barnett Shale production from unrelated third parties. The transport system consists of approximately 3,100 miles of pipeline, a 650 MMcf per day gas processing plant, and a 15,000 Bbls per day NGL fractionator.
In 2003, Devon plans to drill up to 450 new Barnett Shale wells and refracture 64 wells. Devon is also conducting exploratory pilot projects outside the core development area in an effort to expand the productive area. The Barnett Shale is expected to continue to be an important growth area for Devon for the foreseeable future. Current production from the Barnett Shale is approximately 345 MMcf and 21,700 Bbls of oil and NGLs per day net.
The other non-conventional asset Devon is developing in the Mid-Continent region is the Cherokee coalbed methane project. Coalbed methane is natural gas produced from underground coal deposits. Devon
acquired over 400,000 net acres within the Cherokee area of Southeast Kansas and Northeast Oklahoma in 2001.
Devon's East Texas properties are a significant conventional asset. A large portion of this asset base was initially acquired in 1999. The Carthage and Bethany fields are two of the primary properties. These properties produce from the Cotton Valley sands, the Travis Peak sands and from shallower sands and carbonates. Devon operates over 500 producing wells in this area and utilizes a one to two rig drilling program to continue the low-risk, infill development of this area.
The 2002 acquisition of Mitchell added a complementary asset base to the East Texas area. These properties are located on the western side of the East Texas Basin and produce from the Bossier, Cotton Valley and Travis Peaks sands. Devon operates approximately 400 producing wells in this area and plans to continue the development drilling program with one to two rigs. Devon's current net production in East Texas is approximately 123 MMcf and 3,800 Bbls of oil and NGLs per day.
Rocky Mountain Region
Devon's operations in the Rocky Mountain region include properties in Wyoming, Utah, and Northern New Mexico. These assets include conventional oil and gas properties and coalbed methane projects. As of December 31, 2002, the Rocky Mountain region comprised 11% of Devon's proved reserves.
Devon began producing coalbed methane in the San Juan Basin of New Mexico in the mid-1980s and began drilling coalbed methane wells in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming in 1998. As of December 31, 2002, Devon has drilled over 1,500 coalbed methane wells in the Powder River Basin. Devon's net coalbed methane gas production from the basin was approximately 80 MMcf per day as of December 31, 2002, and Devon plans to drill more than 100 wells in the Powder River Basin in 2003. Current production in the basin is primarily from the Wyodak coal formation.
The deeper Big George formation is currently being tested by Devon and others with working interests in the area. Increased development in the Big George is subject to an Environmental Impact Statement, which has been completed and is expected to be approved within the next few months. Pending this approval and the success of current pilot projects, the Big George could significantly expand the coalbed methane play into the western portion of the Powder River Basin. Devon's leasehold in this area would allow for the development of four projects in the Big George.
Devon is also continuing to develop conventional gas operations at the Washakie field in Wyoming. Devon drilled 31 wells in 2002 and plans to drill another 30 wells in 2003. Devon has interests in over 200,000 acres. Devon's current net production from Washakie is approximately 77 MMcf and 1,100 Bbls of oil and NGLs per day.
GULF OF MEXICO AND GULF COAST
Devon is active in the offshore Gulf of Mexico and onshore South Texas and South Louisiana. Devon operates 100 structures in the Gulf of Mexico predominantly in the outer shelf area offshore Louisiana. The Gulf of Mexico and Gulf Coast region represented 5% of Devon's proved reserves at December 31, 2002.
Devon is applying four-component, or 4-C, seismic technology to identify prospects on large tracts of its shelf acreage. Traditional seismic techniques have not been successful in imaging reservoirs lying below shallow gas reservoirs and salt deposits, but 4-C seismic technology is allowing Devon's geoscientists to more accurately picture these unexplored formations. Devon has conducted two large 4-C seismic surveys offshore Louisiana and, in 2002, Devon drilled four successful wells in the West Cameron area based on 4-C data. Devon is also reprocessing large seismic data volumes using pre-stack depth migration to prospect for oil and gas in the outer shelf. In addition, Devon is utilizing new long cable 3-D seismic data to better image deep shelf prospects. Devon has developed a significant inventory of drilling opportunities for deeper gas near our infrastructure in offshore Louisiana and offshore Texas.
In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Devon participated in its first subsalt discovery in 1999 in the Enchilada Field located in Garden Banks 128. Since then Devon has operated several successful subsea completions ranging from Garden Banks to Viosca Knoll. Devon has experience with the successful installation and operation of subsea production equipment, which is an important component of any deepwater program. Devon's Pecten discovery in Viosca Knoll Block 694, a subsea tieback completed in 2001, is currently producing approximately 17 MMcf of gas per day.
Because deepwater exploration requires significant capital expenditures, Devon's strategy is to share projects with experienced partners to mitigate risk. In 2002, Devon entered into a four-well joint venture with ChevronTexaco that will earn Devon a 25% working interest in 71 deepwater blocks and 14 identified exploratory prospects. Devon also made a potentially significant discovery in 2002 in 8,200 feet of water at Cascade located in Walker Ridge Block 206 and plans to participate with other partners in four or five deepwater wells in 2003, including a confirmation well at Cascade.
Devon's operations in the Gulf Coast region include operations onshore in South Texas, where exploration for oil and gas is accelerating. Devon's activities in this area have focused on exploration in the Edwards, Wilcox and Frio/Vicksburg formations. Devon also acquired additional production and undeveloped acreage in the South Texas area from its acquisition of Mitchell.
CANADA
Devon's acquisition of Anderson in late 2001 significantly increased the relative importance of Devon's Canadian operations. The Anderson acquisition strengthened Devon's holdings in the Deep Basin located in Western Alberta and Eastern British Columbia, and the Foothills Region of Northeastern British Columbia. As of December 31, 2002, 36% of Devon's proved reserves were in Canada.
Devon had sought for years to obtain a significant acreage position in the Deep Basin, but other operators, including Anderson, already controlled most of the acreage. As a result of the Anderson acquisition, Devon now holds over 800,000 net acres in the Deep Basin. The profitability of Devon's operations in the Deep Basin is enhanced by its ownership in nine gas processing plants in the area. Devon plans to drill about 100 wells in the Deep Basin in 2003. These reservoirs tend to be rich in liquids, producing up to 100 barrels of NGLs with each MMcf of gas.
Late in 2002, Devon commenced production from the first of several wells it has drilled in the Grizzly Valley area of the Foothills Region of Northeastern British Columbia. Due to gas pipeline and processing limitations, initial production has been limited to 10 MMcf of gas per day. However, a pipeline extension slated for completion in the second quarter of 2003 should allow production to increase to about 35 MMcf per day.
Devon acquired from Anderson approximately 1.5 million net acres in the MacKenzie Delta region and the shallow waters of the Beaufort Sea in Northern Canada. In 2002, a Devon well in the MacKenzie Delta encountered over 110 feet of natural gas pay in the Kamik sand. Two to three more exploratory wells are planned by Devon in the MacKenzie Delta in 2003.
Devon has been active for over a decade in Northeastern British Columbia, an area in which Devon owns approximately 1.35 million net undeveloped acres of land. In 2002, Devon participated in the drilling of 67 gross wells and plans to participate in the drilling of approximately 93 wells in 2003.
The Peace River Arch area is a more mature area with both light oil and natural gas potential. Most of Devon's position in the Peace River Arch was acquired through the Anderson acquisition. Devon holds roughly 730,000 net undeveloped acres in the Peace River Arch, and the average production in 2002 was approximately 140 MMcf of natural gas and 7,500 Bbls of NGLs per day net. In 2003, Devon plans to participate in the drilling of 71 gross wells in the Peace River Arch. Devon has an interest in a production and processing infrastructure in the Peace River Arch, which enhances Devon's operations in the area.
In the Northern Plains region of Northeastern Alberta, Devon has been active for many years. While the area is a highly developed area with winter-only access, Devon is very active, drilling in excess of 100 gross wells per year. In 2002, average daily net production from the area was about 150 MMcf of natural gas and approximately 3,400 Bbls of NGLs net. Natural gas is encountered in multiple horizons at depths generally less than 1,300 feet. Devon holds approximately 2 million net undeveloped acres in this area.
Devon has about 400,000 net undeveloped acres in the central and southern region of Alberta and the average production from this area in 2002 was approximately 80 MMcf of natural gas and 20,000 Bbls of NGLs per day net. Planned activity in 2003 includes drilling approximately 70 gross wells that vary from deep Devonian tests to shallow Cretaceous tests.
Devon is also active in exploration for and production of "cold-flow" heavy oil in the Lloydminster area of Alberta and Saskatchewan where oil is found in multiple horizons generally at depths of 1,000 to 2,000 feet. In 2003, Devon plans to drill 134 gross wells with primarily a development focus. Average daily production from the area in 2002 was approximately 37 MMcf of natural gas and 13,750 Bbls of crude oil net.
Devon is also active in the evaluation of thermal heavy oil in Alberta through its 13% ownership interest in the Surmont project, operated by ConocoPhillips, and is actively evaluating the development of a 100% working interest heavy oil lease at Jackfish and an 83% working interest heavy oil project at Dover. Each of these heavy oil projects target bitumen (heavy tar-like oil) through the use of Steam Assisted Gravity Drainage whereby a pair of horizontal wells are utilized. Steam is injected in one well and is used to heat the bitumen to allow it to gravity drain to the other horizontal production well.
INTERNATIONAL
Devon's international activities are currently focused in development projects in Azerbaijan and China and deepwater exploration in the combined South Atlantic Margin of Brazil and West Africa. In 2002, Devon divested all remaining interests in Argentina, Indonesia and Egypt. As of December 31, 2002, 9% of Devon's proved reserves were in countries outside North America.
In Azerbaijan, Devon has a 5.6% carried working interest in the large Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli, or ACG, oil development project. Devon estimates that the ACG field contains over 4.6 billion barrels of gross proved oil reserves. The development project commenced in 2002. The Baku-T'Bilisi-Ceyhan (BTC) pipeline to export oil for this project has been approved by the governments of Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey.
In China, Devon is an acreage holder in the Pearl River Mouth Basin in the South China Sea and has been successful in discovering two new fields. Devon is currently developing the Devon operated Panyu development project and expects oil production from two offshore platforms and into a floating production- storage and offloading vessel to commence in late 2003. Gross capital expenditures for the project are $340 million, with Devon owning a 24.5% working interest. Peak production is expected to reach 58,000 Bbls of oil per day (15,000 Bbls of oil per day net to Devon) in 2004.
Devon's international exploration efforts are strategically focused in the combined South Atlantic deep water region of West Africa and Brazil. Devon's presence in West Africa began in 1992 with exploration efforts resulting in the discoveries of the Tchatamba fields in the shallow waters offshore Gabon. In this region, Devon has five blocks and holds over 3.2 million net acres. Devon plans to drill deepwater exploratory wells in its West Africa portfolio in Ghana and Gabon in 2003. In Brazil, Devon will be acquiring a 3-D survey in a Devon-operated deepwater block in early 2003 in order to identify future drilling opportunities.
SIGNIFICANT PROPERTIES
The following table sets forth proved reserve information on the most significant geographic areas in which Devon's properties are located as of December 31, 2002.
- ---------------
(1) Gas reserves are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of natural gas to oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas to oil prices. NGL reserves are converted to Boe on a one-to-one basis with oil. The respective prices of gas and oil are affected by market and other factors in addition to relative energy content.
(2) Percentage which MMBoe for the basin or region bears to total MMBoe for all proved reserves.
(3) Determined in accordance with SEC guidelines, except that no effect is given to future income taxes.
(4) Percentages which present value for the basin or region bears to total present value for all proved reserves.
(5) Determined in accordance with SEC guidelines.
(6) Canadian dollars converted to U.S. dollars at the rate of $1 Canadian: $0.6331 U.S.
TITLE TO PROPERTIES
Title to properties is subject to contractual arrangements customary in the oil and gas industry, liens for current taxes not yet due and, in some instances, other encumbrances. Devon believes that such burdens do not materially detract from the value of such properties or from the respective interests therein or materially interfere with their use in the operation of the business.
As is customary in the industry in the case of undeveloped properties, little investigation of record title is made at the time of acquisition (other than a preliminary review of local records). Investigations, generally including a title opinion of outside counsel, are made prior to the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties.
ITEM 3.