Item 2.
Properties
Substantially all of our properties consist of interests in developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases and mineral acreage located in our core operating areas. These interests entitle us to drill for and produce oil, natural gas and NGLs from specific areas. Our interests are mostly in the form of working interests and, to a lesser extent, overriding royalty, mineral and net profits interests, foreign government concessions and other forms of direct and indirect ownership in oil and gas properties.
We also have certain midstream assets, including natural gas and NGL processing plants and pipeline systems. Our most significant midstream assets are our assets serving the Barnett Shale development in North Texas. These assets include approximately 2,600 miles of pipeline, a 650 MMcf per day gas processing plant, and a 15,000 Bbls per day NGL fractionator.
Proved Reserves and Estimated Future Net Revenue
The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves is complex and requires significant judgment as discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors”. As a result, we have developed internal policies for estimating and recording reserves. Our policies regarding booking reserves require proved reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance, and assign responsibilities for reserves bookings to our Reserve Evaluation Group (the “Group”). The policies also require that reserve estimates be made by qualified reserves estimators (“QREs”), as defined by the Society of Petroleum Engineers’ standards. A list of QREs is kept by the Senior Advisor - Corporate Reserves. All QREs are required to receive education covering the fundamentals of SEC proved reserves assignments.
The Group is responsible for internal reserves evaluation and certification and includes the Manager - E&P Budgets and Reserves and the Senior Advisor - Corporate Reserves. The Group reports independently of any of our operating divisions. The Vice President - Planning and Evaluation is directly responsible for overseeing the Group and reports to the President of Devon. No portion of the Group’s compensation is dependent on the quantity of reserves booked.
Throughout the year, the Group performs internal audits of each operating division’s reserves. Selection criteria of reserves that are audited include major fields and major changes (additions and
revisions) to reserves. In addition, the Group reviews reserve estimates with each of the third-party petroleum consultants as discussed below.
In addition to internal audits, we engage three independent petroleum consulting firms to perform both external reserves preparation and audits. Ryder Scott Company, L.P. prepared the reserves estimates for all offshore Gulf of Mexico properties and for 98% of the international proved reserves. LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. audited the reserves estimates for 87% of the domestic onshore properties. AJM Petroleum Consultants prepared estimates covering 46% of our Canadian reserves and audited an additional 26% of our Canadian reserves.
Set forth below is a summary of the reserves which were evaluated, either by preparation or audit, by independent petroleum consultants for each of the years ended 2005, 2004 and 2003.
“Prepared” reserves are those estimates of quantities of reserves which were prepared by an independent petroleum consultant. “Audited” reserves are those quantities of reserves which were estimated by our employees and audited by an independent petroleum consultant. An audit is an examination of a company’s proved oil and gas reserves and net cash flow by an independent petroleum consultant that is conducted for the purpose of expressing an opinion as to whether such estimates, in aggregate, are reasonable and have been estimated and presented in conformity with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles.
We follow what we believe to be a rational approach not only to recording oil and gas reserves, but also to subjecting these reserves to reviews by independent petroleum consultants. In 2004 and 2003, 63% of our company-wide reserves were prepared or audited by an independent petroleum consulting firm. In 2005, 85% of our company-wide reserves were prepared or audited by an independent petroleum consulting firm. We expect the 2005 percent to be indicative of the coverage provided by independent reviews in 2006. This approach provides a high degree of assurance about the validity of our reserve estimates. This is evidenced by the fact that in the past five years, our annual performance related revisions to our reserve estimates, which have been both increases and decreases in individual years, have averaged approximately 1% of the previous year’s estimate.
In addition to internal and external reviews, three independent members of our Board of Directors have been assigned to a Reserves Committee. The Reserves Committee meets at lease twice a year to discuss reserves issues and policies and periodically meets separately with our senior reserves engineering personnel and our independent petroleum consultants. The Reserves Committee assists the Board of Directors with the oversight of the following:
•
the annual review and evaluation of our consolidated oil, gas and NGL reserves;
•
the integrity of our reserves evaluation and reporting system;
•
our compliance with legal and regulatory requirements related to reserves evaluation, preparation, and disclosure;
•
the qualifications and independence of our independent engineering consultants; and
•
our business practices and ethical standards in relation to the preparation and disclosure of reserves.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves and the related estimated pre-tax future net revenues, pre-tax 10% present value and after-tax standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2005. These estimates correspond with the method used in presenting the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Operations” in Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included herein.
(1)
Gas reserves are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of natural gas to oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas to oil prices. NGL reserves are converted to Boe on a one-to-one basis with oil.
(2)
Estimated future net revenue represents estimated future revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and development costs and site restoration and abandonment charges. The amounts shown do not give effect to non-property related expenses such as debt service and future income tax expense or to depreciation, depletion and amortization.
These amounts were calculated using prices and costs in effect for each individual property as of December 31, 2005. These prices were not changed except where different prices were fixed and determinable from applicable contracts. These assumptions yield average prices over the life of our properties of $45.50 per Bbl of oil, $7.84 per Mcf of natural gas and $32.46 per Bbl of NGLs. These prices compare to the December 31, 2005, NYMEX price of $61.04 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $10.08 per MMBtu for natural gas.
We believe the pre-tax 10% present value is a useful measure in addition to standardized measure as it assists in both the determination of future cash flows of the current reserves as well as in making relative value comparisons among peer companies. The standardized measure is dependent on the unique tax situation of each individual company, while the pre-tax 10% present value is based on prices and discount factors which are consistent from company to company. We also understand that securities analysts use this measure in similar ways.
(3)
See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”.
As presented in the previous table, we had 1,599 MMBoe of proved developed reserves at December 31, 2005. Proved developed reserves consist of proved developed producing reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves. The following table provides additional information regarding our proved developed reserves at December 31, 2005.
No estimates of our proved reserves have been filed with or included in reports to any federal or foreign governmental authority or agency since the beginning of the last fiscal year except (i) in filings
with the SEC and (ii) in filings with the Department of Energy (“DOE”). Reserve estimates filed with the SEC correspond with the estimates of our reserves contained herein. Reserve estimates filed with the DOE are based upon the same underlying technical and economic assumptions as the estimates of our reserves included herein. However, the DOE requires reports to include the interests of all owners in wells that we operate and to exclude all interests in wells that we do not operate.
The prices used in calculating the estimated future net revenues attributable to proved reserves do not necessarily reflect market prices for oil, gas and NGL production subsequent to December 31, 2005. There can be no assurance that all of the proved reserves will be produced and sold within the periods indicated, that the assumed prices will be realized or that existing contracts will be honored or judicially enforced.
Production, Revenue and Price History
Certain information concerning oil, natural gas and NGL production, prices, revenues (net of all royalties, overriding royalties and other third party interests) and operating expenses for the three years ended December 31, 2005, is set forth in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
Well Statistics
The following table sets forth our producing wells as of December 31, 2005:
(1)
Gross wells are the total number of wells in which we own a working interest.
(2)
Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests therein.
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
The following table sets forth our developed and undeveloped oil and gas lease and mineral acreage as of December 31, 2005.
(1)
Gross acres are the total number of acres in which we own a working interest.
(2)
Net acres are gross acres multiplied by our fractional working interests therein.
Operation of Properties
The day-to-day operations of oil and gas properties are the responsibility of an operator designated under pooling or operating agreements. The operator supervises production, maintains production records, employs field personnel and performs other functions.
We are the operator of 18,784 of our wells. As operator, we receive reimbursement for direct expenses incurred in the performance of our duties as well as monthly per-well producing and drilling overhead reimbursement at rates customarily charged in the area. In presenting our financial data, we record the monthly overhead reimbursements as a reduction of general and administrative expense, which is a common industry practice.
Organization Structure
Our North American properties are concentrated within five geographic areas. Operations in the United States are focused in the Permian Basin, the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains and onshore and offshore Gulf Coast regions. Canadian properties are focused in the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin in Alberta and British Columbia. Properties outside North America are located primarily in Azerbaijan, China, Egypt and areas in West Africa, including Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, and Cote d’Ivoire. Additionally, we have exploratory interests, but no current producing assets, in other international countries including Angola, Brazil, Ghana and Nigeria. Maintaining a tight geographic focus in selected core areas has allowed us to improve operating and capital efficiency.
The following table sets forth proved reserve information on the most significant geographic areas in which our properties are located as of December 31, 2005.
(1)
Gas reserves are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of natural gas to oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas to oil prices. NGL reserves are converted to Boe on a one-to-one basis with oil.
(2)
Percentage which MMBoe for the basin or region bears to total MMBoe for all proved reserves.
(3)
Determined in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 69, Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities (“SFAS No. 69”), except that no effect is given to future income taxes. See a discussion of the difference between the pre-tax 10% present value and
standardized measure in footnote 2 of “Item 2. Properties - Proved Reserves and Estimated Future Net Revenues.”
(4)
Percentages which present value for the basin or region bears to total present value for all proved reserves.
(5)
Determined in accordance with SFAS No. 69.
(6)
Canadian dollars converted to U.S. dollars at the rate of $1.00 Canadian: $0.8577 U.S.
United States
Permian Basin
Our Permian Basin assets are located in portions of Southeast New Mexico and West Texas. These assets include conventional oil and gas properties producing from a wide variety of geologic formations and depths. Our leasehold position in Southeast New Mexico encompasses 108,000 net acres of developed lands and 221,000 net acres of undeveloped land and minerals. Historically, we have been a very active operator in this area, developing gas from the high productivity Morrow formation and oil in the lower risk Delaware formation.
In the West Texas portion of the Permian Basin, we maintain a base of oil production with long-life reserves. Many of these reserves are from both operated and non-operated positions in large enhanced oil recovery units such as the Wasson ODC Unit, the Willard Unit, the Reeves Unit, the North Welch Unit and the Anton Irish (Clearfork) Unit. These oil-producing units often exhibit low decline rates. We also own a significant acreage position in West Texas with more than 200,000 net acres of developed lands and more than 273,000 net acres of undeveloped land and minerals at December 31, 2005.
Mid-Continent
The Mid-Continent region includes portions of Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas. These areas encompass a wide variety of geologic formations and productive depths and produce both oil and natural gas. Our Mid-Continent production has historically come from conventional oil and gas properties. However, the Barnett Shale in North Texas, acquired in 2002, is a non-conventional gas resource. The Mid-Continent region represented 24% of our proved reserves at December 31, 2005. Approximately 80% of our proved reserves in the Mid-Continent area are in the Barnett Shale.
The Barnett Shale, our largest producing field, is known as a tight gas formation. This means that in its natural state, the formation is resistant to the production of natural gas. However, the application of available technology has made the Barnett Shale a low-risk and highly profitable natural gas operation. Cumulative natural gas production from our wells in the Barnett Shale surpassed one trillion cubic feet during 2005. We hold 552,000 net acres and over 2,100 producing wells in the Barnett Shale. Our average working interest is more than 80%.
We have been successful in extracting gas from the Barnett Shale by using light sand fracturing. Light sand fracturing yields better results than earlier techniques, is less expensive and can be used to complete new wells and to refracture existing wells to increase production rates. We are also applying horizontal drilling, closer well spacing and reservoir optimization techniques to further enhance the value of the Barnett Shale.
Our marketing and midstream operations gather and process our Barnett Shale production along with Barnett Shale production from unrelated third parties. The Barnett Shale gathering system consists of approximately 2,600 miles of pipeline, a 650 MMcf per day gas processing plant, and a 15,000 Bbls per day NGL fractionator.
In 2006, we plan to drill a total of 325 new Barnett Shale wells including 266 horizontal and 59 vertical wells. We began an infill drilling program on our core area acreage in 2005 and plan to drill 50 to 60 horizontal infill wells in 2006. Current net production from the Barnett Shale is approximately 95 MBoe per day.
Rocky Mountain
Our operations in the Rocky Mountain region include properties in Wyoming, Montana, Utah, and Northern New Mexico. These assets include conventional oil and gas properties and coalbed natural gas projects. Approximately 17% of our proved reserves in the Rocky Mountains are from coalbed natural gas. We began producing coalbed natural gas in the San Juan Basin of New Mexico in the mid-1980s and began drilling coalbed natural gas wells in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming in 1998. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 1,360 producing coalbed natural gas wells in the Powder River Basin. Net coalbed natural gas production from the basin was approximately 11 MBoe per day as of December 31, 2005. We plan to drill about 250 new wells in the Powder River Basin in 2006.
The Washakie field in Wyoming is another significant natural gas producing area in our Rocky Mountain region. In 2005, we drilled 88 wells in the Washakie field, including 53 wells we operate. In 2006, we plan to drill up to 70 wells and participate in another 35 outside-operated wells. We have interests in over 200,000 gross acres and an inventory of more than 300 drilling locations. Our current net production from Washakie is approximately 16 MBoe per day.
Gulf Coast Onshore
Our Gulf Coast onshore properties are located in South and East Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi. Most of the wells in the region are completed in conventional sandstone formations.
Our operations in South Texas have focused on exploration in the Edwards, Wilcox and Frio-Vicksburg formations. We drilled three exploratory discoveries on our Gulf Coast acreage in 2005. Drilling plans in 2006 include 34 new wells and 64 recompletions.
East Texas is an important conventional gas producing region, and Carthage and Groesbeck are two of the primary producing areas of this region. Wells produce from the Cotton Valley sands, the Travis Peak sands and from shallower sands and carbonates. We have interests in over 2,300 producing wells in East Texas and plans to drill 139 wells in Carthage and over 30 wells in Groesbeck in 2006.
We have an active exploration program under way in the Bossier Trend in North Louisiana. We hold about 200,000 net acres in seven Bossier prospect areas. We drilled exploratory test wells on the Vixen and North Vixen prospects in 2005. Plans for 2006 include test wells on three additional Bossier prospects.
Gulf Offshore
The offshore Gulf of Mexico accounted for 13% of our 2005 production. We operate over 300 platforms and caissons in the Gulf of Mexico. Gulf of Mexico operations are typically differentiated by water depth. The shallow water shelf is defined by water depths of 600 feet or less. We operate in both the shelf and deepwater areas.
In 2005, we continued development of the deepwater Magnolia field (Garden Banks 783). At December 31, 2005, six Magnolia wells were producing approximately 10 MBoe per day to our interest. The final two Magnolia producing wells will be completed in 2006. Also in 2006, we will complete two producing gas wells in the deepwater Merganser field (Atwater Valley 37). Merganser will produce into the Independence Hub, which is expected to be completed in early 2007. We expect our net share of production from Merganser to be approximately eight MBoe per day.
In addition to our producing properties, we have a significant inventory of exploration prospects in the Gulf of Mexico. The current prospect inventory includes 15 shelf prospects, 18 deepwater prospects in the lower Tertiary trend and 17 deepwater Miocene prospects.
On the shallow-water shelf, the industry is exploring for oil and gas reserves at depths in excess of 15,000 feet. We drilled a “deep shelf” discovery well on the Big Bend prospect (Mustang Island A-110) in 2005. We are the operator of Big Bend with a 50% working interest.
In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, almost all historical production of oil and gas has been from Miocene aged reservoirs. We currently produce approximately 50 MBoe per day from the deepwater Gulf. During 2006, we expect to drill exploratory wells on three Miocene prospects.
In recent years, the industry has begun to explore for oil below the Miocene in older formations that are collectively referred to as the lower Tertiary. To date, we have participated in three lower Tertiary discoveries.
Cascade (Walker Ridge 206) was our first discovery in the lower Tertiary trend. We drilled successful appraisal wells on the prospect in 2005. Also in 2005, we drilled a successful appraisal of the Jack lower Tertiary discovery (Walker Ridge 759). An extended production test of the Jack appraisal well is planned for 2006. Using information obtained from a successful production test, we and our partners will be able to determine a development plan for the Jack discovery. We hold 25% working interests in Jack and Cascade. Our third lower Tertiary discovery is St. Malo (Walker Ridge 678). Additional appraisal drilling on St. Malo is pending partner approval and rig availability. We have a 22.5% working interest in the St. Malo discovery.
Canada
We are among the largest independent oil and gas producers in Canada and operate in most of the producing basins in Western Canada. As of December 31, 2005, 30% of our proved reserves were in Canada.
Many of the Canadian basins where we operate are accessible for drilling only in the winter when the ground is frozen. Consequently, the winter season, from December through March, is the most active drilling period. We expect to drill about 380 wells in the 2005-2006 winter program in Canada.
We hold approximately 410,000 net undeveloped acres in the Deep Basin in West-Central Alberta, where we drilled 179 wells in 2005 and have another active drilling program planned for 2006. The profitability of our operations in the Deep Basin is enhanced by our ownership in nine gas processing plants in the area. Deep Basin reservoirs tend to be rich in liquids, producing up to 50 barrels of NGLs with each MMcf of gas.
Other important oil and gas exploration and development areas in Canada include the Peace River Arch, Northeast British Columbia, Central Alberta and the Lloydminster region of Alberta and Saskatchewan. At Lloydminster, cold flow heavy oil is found in multiple horizons generally at depths of 1,000 to 2,000 feet. In 2005, we acquired 165,000 net acres in the Iron River area within the greater Lloydminster region. We expect to drill 800 wells at Iron River over the next four years.
The oil sands of Eastern Alberta are a vast North American hydrocarbon resource. We hold over 75,000 net acres of oil sands leases in Alberta. In 2004, we received final regulatory approval to proceed with development of our Jackfish thermal oil sands project, in which we have a 100% working interest. The project is expected to produce 35 MBbls per day of heavy oil when fully operational in 2008. We expect to drill 34 horizontal wells at Jackfish in 2006 along with the construction of the Access dual pipeline. Access will transport diluent and blended crude oil between Jackfish and Edmonton.
International
Beyond our core properties in the United States and Canada, we also look outside North America for longer-term reserve and production growth. At December 31, 2005, these international areas accounted for 12% of our worldwide proved reserves.
The most significant international producing property is the ExxonMobil-operated Zafiro oil field on Block B, offshore Equatorial Guinea in West Africa. During 2005, our share of production from Zafiro averaged 37 MBbls per day. We expect to drill nine development wells on Block B in 2006. We drilled a discovery on the Esmeralda prospect on Block B in 2005. We have also identified exploratory prospects on
Block B and on three additional blocks in Equatorial Guinea. Three exploratory wells are planned on Block P in 2006. We drilled a discovery well on the Venus prospect on Block P in 2005.
Our second most significant international producing asset is our Panyu project offshore China. Panyu, in the Pearl River Mouth of the South China Sea, was discovered in 1998. Panyu production began late in 2003. We drilled and completed five successful development wells and tested two exploratory prospects during 2005. During 2005, our share of production from China was 15 MBbls per day.
We also have an active offshore exploration program in Brazil. We made a discovery in 2004 offshore Brazil on Block BM-C-8. Development of the Polvo discovery commenced in 2005 and first production is expected in 2007. We, in partnership with Petrobras on three blocks, were the successful bidder on three offshore blocks in Brazil’s bid round seven in 2005. We expect to drill five exploration wells in Brazil in 2006.
In Azerbaijan, we have a 5.6% carried working interest in the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli, or ACG, oil development project in the Caspian Sea. We estimate that the ACG field contains over five billion barrels of gross proved oil reserves. Oil production from the ACG field began ramping up in 2005 after the Central Azeri platform came on-line.. Based on economic factors existing at December 31, 2005, our net share of ACG production is expected to increase to between 30 to 35 MBbls per day in early 2007 when payout is reached.
We also hold interests in Angola, Cote d’Ivoire, Egypt, Gabon, Ghana, Indonesia, Nigeria, and Russia. Exploratory wells in Egypt and Nigeria are planned for 2006.
Title to Properties
Title to properties is subject to contractual arrangements customary in the oil and gas industry, liens for current taxes not yet due and, in some instances, other encumbrances. We believe that such burdens do not materially detract from the value of such properties or from the respective interests therein or materially interfere with their use in the operation of the business.
As is customary in the industry, other than a preliminary review of local records, little investigation of record title is made at the time of acquisitions of undeveloped properties. Investigations, generally including a title opinion of outside counsel, are made prior to the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties.
Item 3.