ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Substantially all of Devon's properties consist of interests in developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases and mineral acreage located in the Company's core operating areas. These interests entitle Devon to drill for and produce oil, natural gas and NGLs from specific areas. Devon's interests are mostly in the form of working interests and volumetric production payments, and, to a lesser extent, overriding royalty, foreign government concessions, mineral and net profits interests and other forms of direct and indirect ownership in oil and gas properties.
PROVED RESERVES AND ESTIMATED FUTURE NET REVENUE
"Proved reserves" are those quantities of oil, natural gas and NGLs, which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in the future from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. All reserve estimates were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry and in accordance with SEC definitions and guidelines (as described in the following notes). The following table sets forth Devon's estimated proved reserves, the estimated future net revenues therefrom and the 10% Present Value thereof as of December 31, 2001. Approximately 67% of Devon's U.S. proved reserves were estimated by LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. and Ryder Scott Company Petroleum Consultants, independent petroleum consultants. Devon's internal staff of engineers estimated the remainder of the U.S. reserves. Approximately 43% of the year-end 2001 Canadian proved reserves were calculated by the independent petroleum consultants of Paddock Lindstrom & Associates and Gilbert Laustsen Jung Associates, Ltd. The remaining percentage of Canadian reserves are based on Devon's own estimates. The international proved reserves, other than Canada, were calculated by the independent petroleum consultants of Ryder Scott Company Petroleum Consultants. These estimates correspond with the method used in presenting the "Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Operations" in Note 16 to Devon's Consolidated Financial Statements included herein, except that federal income taxes attributable to such future net revenues have been disregarded in the presentation below.
(1) Proved developed reserves are proved reserves that are expected to be recovered from existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
(2) Proved undeveloped reserves are proved reserves to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompleting or deepening a well or for new fluid injection facilities.
(3) Gas reserves are converted to MMBoe at the rate of six Mcf per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of natural gas to oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas to oil prices. The respective prices of gas and oil are affected by market conditions and other factors in addition to relative energy content.
(4) Estimated future net revenue represents estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and development costs. The amounts shown do not give effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and future income tax expense or to depreciation, depletion and amortization.
These amounts were calculated using prices and costs in effect as of December 31, 2001. These prices were not changed except where different prices were fixed and determinable from applicable contracts. These assumptions yield average prices over the life of Devon's properties of $16.54 per Bbl of oil, $2.28 per Mcf of natural gas and $13.21 per Bbl of NGLs. These prices compare to December 31, 2001, New York Mercantile Exchange prices of $19.84 per Bbl for crude oil and of $2.65 per MMBtu for natural gas.
(5) See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.
No estimates of Devon's proved reserves have been filed with or included in reports to any federal or foreign governmental authority or agency since the beginning of the last fiscal year except (i) in filings with the SEC and (ii) in filings with the Department of Energy ("DOE"). Reserve estimates filed by Devon with the SEC correspond with the estimates of Devon reserves contained herein. Reserve estimates filed with the DOE are based upon the same underlying technical and economic assumptions as the estimates of Devon's reserves included herein. However, the DOE requires reports to include the interests of all owners in wells that Devon operates and to exclude all interests in wells that Devon does not operate.
The prices used in calculating the estimated future net revenues attributable to proved reserves do not necessarily reflect market prices for oil, gas and NGL production subsequent to December 31, 2001. There can be no assurance that all of the proved reserves will be produced and sold within the periods indicated, that the assumed prices will be realized or that existing contracts will be honored or judicially enforced.
The process of estimating oil, gas and NGLs reserves is complex, requiring significant subjective decisions in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. The data for a given reservoir may change substantially over time as a result of, among other things, additional development activity, production history and viability of production under varying economic conditions. Consequently, material revisions to existing reserve estimates may occur in the future.
PRODUCTION, REVENUE AND PRICE HISTORY
Certain information concerning oil and natural gas production, prices, revenues (net of all royalties, overriding royalties and other third party interests) and operating expenses for the three years ended December 31, 2001, is set forth in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
WELL STATISTICS
The following table sets forth Devon's producing wells as of December 31, 2001:
(1) Gross wells are the total number of wells in which Devon owns a working interest.
(2) Net refers to gross wells multiplied by Devon's fractional working interests therein.
Devon also held numerous overriding royalty interests in oil and gas wells, a portion of which are convertible to working interests after recovery of certain costs by third parties. After converting to working interests, these overriding royalty interests will be included in Devon's gross and net well count.
UNDEVELOPED ACREAGE
The following table sets forth Devon's developed and undeveloped oil and gas lease and mineral acreage as of December 31, 2001.
(1) Gross acres are the total number of acres in which Devon owns a working interest.
(2) Net refers to gross acres multiplied by Devon's fractional working interests therein.
OPERATION OF PROPERTIES
The day-to-day operations of oil and gas properties are the responsibility of an operator designated under pooling or operating agreements. The operator supervises production, maintains production records, employs field personnel and performs other functions. The charges under operating agreements customarily vary with the depth and location of the well being operated.
Devon is the operator of 16,478 of its wells. As operator, Devon receives reimbursement for direct expenses incurred in the performance of its duties as well as monthly per-well producing and drilling overhead reimbursement at rates customarily charged in the area to or by unaffiliated third parties. In presenting its financial data, Devon records the monthly overhead reimbursements as a reduction of general and administrative expense, which is a common industry practice.
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
Devon's properties are distributed geographically in five separate divisions. Operations in the United States are focused in the Permian/Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountain and Gulf divisions. Canadian operations are focused in the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin in Alberta and British Columbia. All operations outside North America make up Devon's International division. Maintaining a tight geographic focus in selected core areas is a key element of Devon's operating strategy. This concentration has allowed Devon to improve operating and capital efficiency.
UNITED STATES PROPERTIES
PERMIAN/MID-CONTINENT DIVISION
Devon's Permian/Mid-Continent Division includes portions of New Mexico, Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Mississippi and Louisiana. This area encompasses a wide variety of geologic formations and productive depths. The Permian/Mid-Continent produces more oil than any other division in the company and a significant portion of Devon's natural gas. Devon's Permian/Mid-Continent production has historically come from conventional oil and gas properties. However, Devon recently established dominant positions in two non-conventional gas plays in the Permian/Mid-Continent: the Barnett Shale and the Cherokee coalbed methane project.
The most significant asset brought to Devon in its January 24, 2002 acquisition of Mitchell Energy is the interest in the Barnett Shale of north Texas. The Barnett Shale is known as a "tight gas" formation. This means that in its natural state, the formation is resistant to the production of natural gas. Mitchell spent decades understanding how to efficiently develop and produce this gas. The resulting technology yielded a low-risk and highly profitable natural gas play. Devon holds 525,000 net acres and over 800 producing wells in the Barnett Shale. Devon's average working interest is approximately 95%. The Barnett Shale is a unique, unconventional gas resource that offers immediate low-risk production growth and the potential for significant reserve additions.
The key to unlocking the gas trapped within the tight shale is a completion technique called light sand fracturing. Light sand fracturing yields much better results than earlier techniques and costs less. Not only are new wells fractured when completed, but older wells can be refractured with excellent results. Refractured wells often exceed their original flow rates, even after years of production. In spite of recent improvements in fracture technology Devon anticipates recovering less than 10% of the gas in place. Further technological improvements could unlock additional potential.
In 2002, Devon plans to drill 300 new Barnett Shale wells and refracture 144 wells. The Company also plans to drill eight exploratory wells outside the core development area with the hope of expanding the productive area. The Barnett Shale is expected to be an important growth area for Devon for many years to come.
The other important new asset in the Permian/Mid-Continent Division is the Cherokee coalbed methane project. Coalbed methane is natural gas produced from underground coal deposits. Unlike conventional natural gas wells, coalbed methane wells initially produce water along with small quantities of gas. Over time, the water is removed from the reservoir releasing the gas trapped within the coal and gas production increases.
During the first half of 2001, Devon acquired over 400,000 net acres within the Cherokee area of southeast Kansas and northeast Oklahoma. Devon began drilling in the second half of 2001 and had drilled 131 wells by the end of the year. Plans for 2002 are to drill 200 new wells and further refine completion techniques. Aggregate gas production should begin to reach significant levels in the second half of 2002 as drilling and de-watering progress. If the wells in this project perform as Devon believes they will, the Company expects to ultimately drill more than 1,000 wells in the play.
ROCKY MOUNTAIN DIVISION
The Rocky Mountain Division includes Devon's properties in Wyoming, Utah, Colorado and northern New Mexico. While Devon's assets in the Rocky Mountains include significant conventional oil and gas properties, 2002 activity is focused primarily on coalbed methane projects.
The Rocky Mountain Division manages three of Devon's four significant coalbed methane projects. The most active of these is in Wyoming's Powder River Basin. Devon began drilling coalbed methane wells in the Powder River Basin in 1998. To date, Devon has drilled almost 1,400 wells. Devon exited 2001 with net Powder River coalbed methane sales at about 90 million cubic feet of natural gas per day. This rate is expected to continue to rise as more wells are drilled and de-watered.
Plans call for drilling more than 200 Powder River wells in 2002. This will include
roughly 170 wells in existing producing areas and 90 wells in new project areas. Current production is primarily from the Wyodak coal formation. In addition, the Company has several new projects developing the deeper Big George coals. Success in the Big George would significantly expand the potential of Devon's 250,000 net acres in this area.
GULF DIVISION
The Gulf Division manages Devon's properties in the Gulf of Mexico and onshore in south Texas and south Louisiana. The division contributes roughly 17% of current company-wide gas production, mostly from the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico. The shallow water Gulf, or "shelf," is a mature producing area with relatively high field decline rates. These characteristics present challenges to Gulf operators. Devon has responded to those challenges by continually utilizing technological advances in the search for new reserves.
Devon is applying four-component seismic technology to identify prospects on large tracts of its shelf acreage. Traditional seismic techniques have not been useful in imaging reservoirs lying below shallow gas reservoirs and salt deposits. Four-component seismic, or 4C, is now allowing Devon's geoscientists to more accurately picture these unexplored formations. Devon has conducted two large 4C seismic surveys offshore Louisiana. In early 2002, Devon began drilling and has achieved early success on prospects resulting from a 300 square mile 4C survey in the West Cameron area. Devon is currently interpreting the results of its second 4C survey. This one covers 360 square miles in the Eugene Island - South Marsh Island area.
Another response to declining shelf production has been the move into deeper water. The deepwater Gulf is believed to contain some of the largest remaining undiscovered oil and gas reserves in North America. Because deepwater exploration is capital intensive, Devon's strategy is to move cautiously. Devon's main focus is on prospects in water depths for which infrastructure and production technology are well established. Devon limits its exploration exposure in the deepwater to participation in a few wells each year. Furthermore, Devon generally shares the risk of deepwater exploration wells with industry partners. One of the deepwater exploration wells Devon plans to drill in 2002 will assess one of the largest untested structures in the Gulf. The Cortes Prospect lies in 3,300' of water and covers most of four 5,000-acre blocks in the Port Isabel area. Devon has a 25% working interest in Cortes.
Another of Devon's deepwater projects is expected to begin producing in 2002. Devon has a 48% working interest in the Manatee Field which is located on Green Canyon block 155 in about 1,900' of water. Production will be from two wells in a sub-sea system. These wells will produce into the nearby Angus Field and then flow to the Bullwinkle platform in 1,350' of water.
A further source of oil and gas reserves and production growth lies in the Gulf Coast region onshore South Texas. Devon's activities in this area have focused on exploration in the Edwards, Wilcox and Frio/Vicksberg trends. In 2001 Devon drilled five successful exploration
wells and 32 development wells. As a result, over the course of the year Devon's share of production doubled to more than 60 million cubic feet per day. The Mitchell acquisition, completed in early 2002, adds additional production and undeveloped acreage in the South Texas area. With a large, high-quality inventory of additional drilling locations, we expect South Texas to be a source of continued growth.
CANADA
Devon's acquisition of Anderson Exploration in late 2001 dramatically increased the significance of Canada to Devon's overall property portfolio and enhanced our growth potential. Devon sought to expand its presence in Canada because it believes that many of its oil and gas-prone areas are underdeveloped or underexplored. Devon's properties in Canada offer a balance of drilling opportunities spanning the entire risk-reward spectrum.
The Anderson acquisition strengthened Devon's holdings in almost all of the important producing basins in Canada. One such area is the Deep Basin located in western Alberta, along the border with British Columbia. Devon had sought for years to obtain a significant acreage position in the Deep Basin. However, other operators, including Anderson, already controlled most of the acreage. As a result of the acquisition, Devon now holds over 800,000 net acres in the Deep Basin. Furthermore, the profitability of Devon's operations is enhanced by ownership in nine major gas processing plants in the area.
During 2002, Devon plans to drill about 85 wells in the Deep Basin. These reservoirs tend to be rich in liquids, producing up to 100 barrels with each million cubic feet of gas. Due to the multizone nature of this area, drilling success rates are quite high, in the 70% to 90% range.
Another focus area for Devon's 2002 drilling program will be the Slave Point region of northwestern Alberta and northeastern British Columbia. This area includes the Hamburg/Ladyfern area where some of Canada's largest recent gas discoveries have occurred. Devon plans to drill eight Slave Point wells in 2002, including five at Ladyfern.
Near the end of 2002, Devon plans to bring several previous deep gas discoveries on stream in the Grizzly Valley area of the Foothills of northeastern British Columbia. Since its initial discovery here in 1998, Devon has drilled 11 successful wells. Devon expects to commence initial production at a combined rate of about 50 million cubic feet of gas per day to Devon.
The Anderson acquisition significantly increased Devon's holdings in the Foothills. Devon has interests ranging from 49% to 55% in over 1.2 million gross acres in the area. While Devon had focused on exploring for deep gas reservoirs in this area, Anderson had achieved considerable success in drilling for shallower formations. The Anderson acquisition affords the Company the opportunity to extend Anderson's shallow gas development onto Devon's acreage and to apply Devon's deep gas exploration expertise to the Anderson acreage.
One of the highest potential exploration assets Devon acquired from Anderson was its 1.5
million net acres in Canada's most prospective exploratory region, the far north. Devon's position includes a working interest in nearly half of all the lands held by the industry in the Mackenzie Delta and shallow water Beaufort Sea. Devon plans to continue the long-term exploration program begun by Anderson. These plans include active 2D and 3D seismic programs both onshore and offshore. Beginning in 2002, Devon plans to drill up to four wells annually in the Mackenzie Delta. While it will be years before construction of a pipeline will allow production to begin, this area could hold significant long-term potential for Devon.
INTERNATIONAL
Devon's assets outside North America were acquired in the PennzEnergy and Santa Fe transactions. Since acquiring these properties, Devon has critically evaluated each one and has disposed of many. Devon has identified our assets in Argentina and Indonesia for sale in 2002 as part of our non-core asset dispositions. From interests in 13 countries, Devon now is focusing on just three international areas.
In Azerbaijan, Devon holds a 5.6% carried interest in a world-class oil development project, the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli Field. Significant production from this multi-billion barrel oilfield is still several years away pending completion of an additional export pipeline. In China, Devon is the largest acreage holder in the Pearl River Mouth Basin in the South China Sea. Development of our Panyu Project is underway and Devon expects first oil production from two offshore platforms in late 2003. Devon expects its share of production to approximate 15,000 barrels per day.
Devon's international exploration efforts are focused primarily on the deepwater off West Africa. Devon holds over two million net acres in these waters where several important discoveries have been made by the industry in recent years. In 2002, Devon plans to drill a test well on our Rita Prospect located offshore Congo.
SIGNIFICANT PROPERTIES
The following table sets forth proved reserve information on the most significant geographic areas in which Devon's properties are located as of December 31, 2001.
(1) Gas reserves are converted to MMBoe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of natural gas to oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas to oil prices. The respective prices of gas and oil are affected by market and other factors in addition to relative energy content.
(2) Percentage which MMBoe for the basin or region bears to total MMBoe for all proved reserves.
(3) Percentages which present value for the basin or region bears to total present value for all proved reserves.
(4) Canadian dollars converted to U.S. dollars at the rate of $1 Canadian: $0.6279 U.S.
TITLE TO PROPERTIES
Title to properties is subject to contractual arrangements customary in the oil and gas industry, liens for current taxes not yet due and, in some instances, other encumbrances. Devon believes that such burdens do not materially detract from the value of such properties or from the respective interests therein or materially interfere with their use in the operation of the business.
As is customary in the industry in the case of undeveloped properties, little investigation of record title is made at the time of acquisition (other than a preliminary review of local records). Investigations, generally including a title opinion of outside counsel, are made prior to the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties.
ITEM 3.