Item 2.
Properties
Substantially all of our properties consist of interests in developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases and mineral acreage located in our core operating areas. These interests entitle us to drill for and produce oil, natural gas and NGLs from specific areas. Our interests are mostly in the form of working interests and, to a lesser extent, overriding royalty, mineral and net profits interests, foreign government concessions and other forms of direct and indirect ownership in oil and gas properties.
We also have certain midstream assets, including natural gas and NGL processing plants and pipeline systems. Our most significant midstream assets are our assets serving the Barnett Shale region in North Texas. These assets include approximately 2,700 miles of pipeline, two gas processing plants with 680 MMcf per day of total capacity, and a 15 MBbls per day NGL fractionator.
Proved Reserves and Estimated Future Net Revenue
The SEC defines proved oil and gas reserves as the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions.
The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves is complex and requires significant judgment as discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” As a result, we have developed internal policies for estimating and recording reserves. Our policies regarding booking reserves require proved reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance, and assign responsibilities for reserves bookings to our Reserve Evaluation Group (the “Group”). Our policies also require that reserve estimates be made by qualified reserves estimators (“QREs”), as defined by the Society of Petroleum Engineers’ standards. A list of our QREs is kept by the Senior Advisor - Corporate Reserves. All QREs are required to receive education covering the fundamentals of SEC proved reserves assignments.
The Group is responsible for internal reserves evaluation and certification and includes the Manager - E&P Budgets and Reserves and the Senior Advisor - Corporate Reserves. The Group reports independently of any of our operating divisions. The Vice President - Planning and Evaluation is directly responsible for overseeing the Group and reports to the President of Devon. No portion of the Group’s compensation is dependent on the quantity of reserves booked.
Throughout the year, the Group performs internal audits of each operating division’s reserves. Selection criteria of reserves that are audited include major fields and major additions and revisions to reserves. In addition, the Group reviews reserve estimates with each of the third-party petroleum consultants discussed below.
In addition to internal audits, we engage three independent petroleum consulting firms to both prepare and audit a significant portion of our proved reserves. Ryder Scott Company, L.P. prepared the 2006 reserves estimates for all our offshore Gulf of Mexico properties and for 99% of our International proved reserves. LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. audited the 2006 reserves estimates for 87% of our domestic onshore properties. AJM Petroleum Consultants prepared estimates covering 46% of our 2006 Canadian reserves and audited an additional 39% of our Canadian reserves.
Set forth below is a summary of the reserves which were evaluated, either by preparation or audit, by independent petroleum consultants for each of the years ended 2006, 2005 and 2004.
“Prepared” reserves are those quantities of reserves which were prepared by an independent petroleum consultant. “Audited” reserves are those quantities of reserves which were estimated by our employees and audited by an independent petroleum consultant. An audit is an examination of a company’s proved oil and gas reserves and net cash flow by an independent petroleum consultant that is conducted for the purpose of expressing an opinion as to whether such estimates, in aggregate, are reasonable and have been estimated and presented in conformity with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles.
In addition to internal and external reviews, three independent members of our Board of Directors have been assigned to a Reserves Committee. The Reserves Committee meets at lease twice a year to discuss reserves issues and policies and periodically meets separately with our senior reserves engineering personnel and our independent petroleum consultants. The Reserves Committee assists the Board of Directors with the oversight of the following:
•
the annual review and evaluation of our consolidated oil, gas and NGL reserves;
•
the integrity of our reserves evaluation and reporting system;
•
our compliance with legal and regulatory requirements related to reserves evaluation, preparation, and disclosure;
•
the qualifications and independence of our independent engineering consultants; and
•
our business practices and ethical standards in relation to the preparation and disclosure of reserves.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves and the related estimated pre-tax future net revenues, pre-tax 10% present value and after-tax standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2006. These estimates correspond with the method used in presenting the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Operations” in Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included herein.
(1)
Gas reserves are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of natural gas to oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas to oil prices. NGL reserves are converted to Boe on a one-to-one basis with oil.
(2)
Estimated pre-tax future net revenue represents estimated future revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and development costs and site restoration and abandonment charges. The amounts shown do not give effect to non-property related expenses such as debt service and future income tax expense or to depreciation, depletion and amortization.
These amounts were calculated using prices and costs in effect for each individual property as of December 31, 2006. These prices were not changed except where different prices were fixed and determinable from applicable contracts. These assumptions yield average prices over the life of our properties of $46.11 per Bbl of oil, $5.06 per Mcf of natural gas and $27.63 per Bbl of NGLs. These prices compare to the December 31, 2006, NYMEX cash price of $61.05 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $5.64 per MMBtu for natural gas.
The present value of after-tax future net revenues discounted at 10% per annum (“standardized measure”) was $16.6 billion at the end of 2006. Included as part of standardized measure were discounted future income taxes of $7.5 billion. Excluding these taxes, the present value of our pre-tax future net revenue (“pre-tax 10% present value”) was $24.1 billion. We believe the pre-tax 10% present value is a useful measure in addition to the after-tax standardized measure. The pre-tax 10% present value assists in both the determination of future cash flows of the current reserves as well as in making relative value comparisons among peer companies. The after-tax standardized measure is dependent on the unique tax situation of each individual company, while the pre-tax 10% present value is based on prices and discount factors which are more consistent from company to company. We also understand that securities analysts use the pre-tax 10% present value measure in similar ways.
(3) See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”
As presented in the previous table, we had 1,674 MMBoe of proved developed reserves at December 31, 2006. Proved developed reserves consist of proved developed producing reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves. The following table provides additional information regarding our proved developed reserves at December 31, 2006.
No estimates of our proved reserves have been filed with or included in reports to any federal or foreign governmental authority or agency since the beginning of the last fiscal year except in filings with the SEC and
the Department of Energy (“DOE”). Reserve estimates filed with the SEC correspond with the estimates of our reserves contained herein. Reserve estimates filed with the DOE are based upon the same underlying technical and economic assumptions as the estimates of our reserves included herein. However, the DOE requires reports to include the interests of all owners in wells that we operate and to exclude all interests in wells that we do not operate.
The prices used in calculating the estimated future net revenues attributable to proved reserves do not necessarily reflect market prices for oil, gas and NGL production subsequent to December 31, 2006. There can be no assurance that all of the proved reserves will be produced and sold within the periods indicated, that the assumed prices will be realized or that existing contracts will be honored or judicially enforced.
Production, Revenue and Price History
Certain information concerning oil, natural gas and NGL production, prices, revenues (net of all royalties, overriding royalties and other third party interests) and operating expenses for the three years ended December 31, 2006, is set forth in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
Drilling Activities
The following tables summarize the results of our development and exploratory drilling activity for the past three years. The tables do not include our Egyptian operations that were classified as discontinued at the end of 2006.
Development Well Activity
Exploratory Well Activity
(1)
Gross wells are the sum of all wells in which we own an interest.
(2)
Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests therein.
For the wells being drilled as of December 31, 2006 presented in the tables above, the following table summarizes the results of such wells as of February 1, 2007.
Well Statistics
The following table sets forth our producing wells as of December 31, 2006. The table does not include our Egyptian operations that were classified as discontinued at the end of 2006.
(1)
Gross wells are the total number of wells in which we own a working interest.
(2)
Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests therein.
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
The following table sets forth our developed and undeveloped oil and gas lease and mineral acreage as of December 31, 2006. The table does not include our Egyptian operations that were classified as discontinued at the end of 2006.
(1)
Gross acres are the total number of acres in which we own a working interest.
(2)
Net acres are gross acres multiplied by our fractional working interests therein.
Operation of Properties
The day-to-day operations of oil and gas properties are the responsibility of an operator designated under pooling or operating agreements. The operator supervises production, maintains production records, employs field personnel and performs other functions.
We are the operator of 22,434 of our wells. As operator, we receive reimbursement for direct expenses incurred in the performance of our duties as well as monthly per-well producing and drilling overhead reimbursement at rates customarily charged in the area. In presenting our financial data, we record the monthly overhead reimbursements as a reduction of general and administrative expense, which is a common industry practice.
Organization Structure and Property Profiles
Our properties are located within the U.S. onshore and offshore regions, Canada, and certain locations outside North America. The following table presents proved reserve information for our significant properties as of December 31, 2006, along with their production volumes for the year 2006. Included in the table are certain U.S. offshore properties which currently have no proved reserves or production. Such properties are considered significant because they may be the source of significant growth in proved reserves and production in the future. Also included in the table are properties located in West Africa that we intend to sale in 2007. The table does not include our Egyptian operations that were classified as discontinued at the end of 2006. Additional summary profile information for our significant properties is provided following the table.
(1)
Gas reserves and production are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of natural gas to oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas to oil prices. NGL reserves and production are converted to Boe on a one-to-one basis with oil.
(2)
Percentage of proved reserves and production the property bears to total proved reserves and production based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table.
(3)
In January 2007, we announced our plans to sell our assets in West Africa.
U.S. Onshore
Barnett Shale - The Barnett Shale, located in north central Texas, is our largest property both in terms of production and proved reserves. Our leases include approximately 725,000 net acres located primarily in Denton, Johnson, Parker, Tarrant and Wise counties. The Barnett Shale is a non-conventional reservoir and it produces natural gas and natural gas liquids. We have an average working interest in the Barnett Shale of greater than 90%.
During 2006, we acquired additional Barnett Shale assets from Chief. The Chief acquisition added approximately 100 MMBoe of proved reserves, 169,000 net acres and some 2,000 additional drilling locations to our Barnett Shale holdings. We drilled 383 gross wells in the Barnett Shale in 2006 and expect to drill 385 gross wells in the area in 2007.
Carthage - The Carthage area in east Texas includes primarily Harrison, Marion, Panola and Shelby counties. We hold approximately 126,000 net acres in the area. Our Carthage area wells produce primarily natural gas and natural gas liquids from conventional reservoirs. Our average working interest in this area is about 85%. We drilled 122 gross wells at Carthage in 2006 and plan to drill 150 gross wells in the area in 2007.
Permian Basin, Texas - Our oil and gas properties in the Permian Basin of west Texas comprise approximately 1.2 million net acres. Our acreage is located primarily in Andrews, Crane, Martin, Terry, Ward and Yoakum counties. The Permian Basin produces both oil and natural gas from conventional reservoirs. Our average working interest in these properties is about 40%. We drilled 95 gross wells in the Permian Basin of west Texas in 2006, and we plan to drill another 100 gross wells in the area in 2007.
Washakie - Our Washakie area leases are concentrated in Carbon and Sweetwater counties in southern Wyoming. We hold about 157,000 net acres in the Washakie area. Washakie produces primarily natural gas from conventional reservoirs. Our average working interest in the Washakie area is about 76%. In 2006, we drilled 137 wells at Washakie, and we plan to drill another 105 wells in the area in 2007.
Groesbeck - The Groesbeck area of east Texas includes portions of Freestone, Leon, Limestone and Robertson counties. We hold about 173,000 net acres of land in the Groesbeck area. Groesbeck produces primarily natural gas from conventional reservoirs. Our average working interest in the area is approximately 72%. In 2006, we drilled 31 gross wells in the area. Our plans anticipate drilling 34 additional gross wells in the Groesbeck area in 2007.
Permian Basin, New Mexico - We also own oil and gas properties in the Permian Basin in south eastern New Mexico. We hold about 342,000 net acres concentrated in Eddy and Lea counties. We produce conventional oil and natural gas from the Permian Basin in New Mexico, and have an average working interest of about 75% in these properties. In 2006, we drilled 82 gross wells in this area, and we expect to drill another 44 gross wells in 2007.
U.S. Offshore
Deepwater Producing - Our assets in the Gulf of Mexico include four significant producing properties located in deep water (greater than 600 feet). These properties are Magnolia, Nansen, Red Hawk and Zia. They are all located on federal leases and total approximately 48,000 net acres. The properties produce both crude oil and natural gas. Our working interest is 65% in Zia and 50% in each of the other three properties.
We drilled a total of two gross deepwater producing wells in 2006 and expect to drill four additional gross wells in 2007.
Deepwater Development - In addition to our four significant deepwater producing properties, we are in the process of developing two other deepwater projects, Merganser and Cascade. Merganser and Cascade are located on federal leases encompassing a total of approximately 11,500 net acres. We have 50% working interests in both properties.
We drilled two producing wells at Merganser in 2006. These wells are expected to commence producing natural gas in mid-2007. No additional drilling is planned at Merganser.
We announced in 2006 our plans to develop the 2002 Cascade discovery using an FPSO vessel. Cascade is expected to begin producing primarily oil in late 2009. Additional drilling at Cascade is in the planning stage.
Deepwater Exploration - Our exploration program in the Gulf of Mexico is focused primarily on deepwater opportunities. Our deepwater exploratory prospects include Miocene-aged objectives (five million to 24 million years) and older and deeper Lower Tertiary objectives. We hold federal leases comprising approximately 1.2 million net acres in our deepwater exploration inventory.
In 2006, various drilling and testing operations provided evidence that our Lower Tertiary properties may be a source of meaningful reserve and production growth in the future. Prior to 2006, we had drilled three discovery wells in the Lower Tertiary. These include Cascade in 2002 (see “Deepwater Development” above), St. Malo in 2003 and Jack in 2004. Operations in 2006 included a successful production test of the Jack No. 2 well and participation in the Kaskida discovery, which is our fourth Lower Tertiary discovery. We currently hold 273 blocks in the Lower Tertiary and have identified 19 additional prospects to date.
At St. Malo, in which our working interest is 22.5%, we plan to drill a second delineation well in late 2007 or early 2008. At Jack, where our working interest is 25%, we continue to evaluate with our partners our development options following the successful production test in 2006.
In addition to the 2006 Kaskida discovery, a subsequent sidetrack well at Kaskida was drilled in 2006 and another well operation is planned for 2007. Our working interest in Kaskida is 20%, and we believe Kaskida is the largest of our four Lower Tertiary discoveries to date. The Kaskida discovery was our first in the Keathley Canyon deepwater lease area. Twelve of the 19 additional Lower Tertiary exploratory prospects we have identified to date are on our Keathley Canyon acreage.
Also in 2006, we participated in a Miocene discovery on the Mission Deep prospect in which we have a 50% working interest. We have fifteen additional prospects in our deepwater Miocene inventory.
In total, we drilled three exploratory and delineation wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico in 2006, and plan to drill six such wells in 2007. Our working interests in these exploratory opportunities range from 20% to 100%.
Canada
Jackfish - We are currently developing our 100%-owned Jackfish thermal heavy oil project in the non-conventional oil sands of east central Alberta. We will employ steam-assisted gravity drainage at Jackfish, and we expect to begin steam injection in the second quarter of 2007. Production is expected to eventually reach 35,000 barrels per day by the end of 2008 We drilled 19 pairs of producing and steam-injection wells in 2006, bringing the total number of well-pairs to 24. We hold approximately 80,000 net acres in the entire Jackfish area, which can support expansion of the original project. We requested regulatory approval in late September 2006 to increase the scope and size of the original project. We expect to decide in 2007 whether to proceed with this expansion, which could eventually add an additional 35,000 barrels per day of production.
Deep Basin - Our properties in Canada’s Deep Basin include portions of west central Alberta and east central British Columbia. We hold approximately 646,000 net acres in the Deep Basin. The area produces primarily natural gas and natural gas liquids from conventional reservoirs. Our average working interest in the
Deep Basin is 46%. We drilled 115 gross wells in the Deep Basin in 2006 and plan to drill 57 gross wells in the area in 2007.
Lloydminster - Our Lloydminster properties are located to the south and east of Jackfish in eastern Alberta and western Saskatchewan. Lloydminster produces heavy oil by conventional means without steam injection. We hold 2.1 million net acres and have a 97% average working interest in our Lloydminster properties. In 2006, we drilled 397 gross wells in the area and plan to drill 395 gross wells in 2007.
Peace River Arch - The Peace River Arch is located in west central Alberta. We hold approximately 476,000 net acres in the area, which produces primarily natural gas and natural gas liquids from conventional reservoirs. Our average working interest in the area is about 69%. We drilled 82 gross wells in the Peace River Arch in 2006, and we expect to drill 62 additional wells here in 2007.
Northeast British Columbia - Our Northeast British Columbia properties are located primarily in British Columbia and to a lesser extent in north western Alberta. We hold approximately 1.2 million net acres in the area. These properties produce principally natural gas from conventional reservoirs. We hold a 72% average working interest in these properties. We drilled 64 gross wells in the area in 2006, and we plan to drill 68 wells here in 2007.
International
Azerbaijan - Outside North America, Devon’s largest international property in terms of proved reserves is the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli (“ACG”) oil field located offshore Azerbaijan in the Caspian Sea. Our production from ACG increased significantly in late 2006 following the payout of carried interest agreements with various partners in the field. Our production will increase again in 2007 as we benefit from a full year of the higher ownership interest after these payouts. We expect our share of ACG production in 2007 to total approximately 12 MMBoe. ACG produces crude oil from conventional reservoirs. We hold approximately 6,000 net acres in the ACG field and have a 5.6% working interest. In 2006, we participated in drilling 15 gross wells at ACG and expect to drill 13 gross wells in 2007.
China - Our production in China is from the Panyu field in the Pearl River Mouth Basin in the South China Sea. Panyu produces oil from conventional reservoirs. In addition to Panyu, which is located on block 15/34, we also hold leases in two exploratory blocks offshore China. In total, we have 4.4 million net acres under lease in China. We have a 24.5% working interest at Panyu and 100% working interests in the exploratory blocks. We drilled six gross wells in China in 2006, all in the Panyu field. In 2007, we expect to drill seven gross wells in the Panyu field.
Brazil - We expect to commence oil production in Brazil in 2007 from our Polvo field. Polvo, which we operate with a 60% interest, is located offshore in block BM-C-8. In addition to our development project at Polvo, we also hold acreage in nine exploratory blocks. In aggregate, we have 835,000 net acres in Brazil. Our working interests range from 18% to 100% in these blocks. We drilled three gross wells in Brazil in 2006 and plan to drill 11 gross wells in Brazil in 2007.
Equatorial Guinea - All of our oil production from the West African country of Equatorial Guinea is from the offshore Zafiro field in the Gulf of Guinea. Zafiro is located on block B, and we also have interests in three additional exploratory blocks. We hold 518,000 net acres in the four blocks combined. Zafiro produces crude oil from conventional reservoirs. Our working interests (participating interests under the terms of the production sharing contracts) range from 24% to 38% in the four blocks. In 2006, we drilled 10 gross wells in Equatorial Guinea, all in the Zafiro field. In 2007, we plan to drill 10 gross wells in Equatorial Guinea. Equatorial Guinea is included in the West African assets we intend to sell during 2007.
Title to Properties
Title to properties is subject to contractual arrangements customary in the oil and gas industry, liens for current taxes not yet due and, in some instances, other encumbrances. We believe that such burdens do not materially detract from the value of such properties or from the respective interests therein or materially interfere with their use in the operation of the business.
As is customary in the industry, other than a preliminary review of local records, little investigation of record title is made at the time of acquisitions of undeveloped properties. Investigations, generally including a title opinion of outside counsel, are made prior to the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties.
Item 3.