Item 2.
Properties
Substantially all of our properties consist of interests in developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases and mineral acreage located in our core operating areas. These interests entitle us to drill for and produce oil, gas and NGLs from specific areas. Our interests are mostly in the form of working interests and, to a lesser extent, overriding royalty, mineral and net profits interests, foreign government concessions and other forms of direct and indirect ownership in oil and gas properties.
We also have certain midstream assets, including natural gas and NGL processing plants and pipeline systems. Our most significant midstream assets are our assets serving the Barnett Shale region in north Texas. These assets include approximately 3,100 miles of pipeline, two natural gas processing plants with 750 MMcf per day of total capacity, and a 15 MBbls per day NGL fractionator. To support our continued development and growing production in the Woodford Shale, located in southeastern Oklahoma, we constructed the Northridge natural gas processing plant in 2008. The Northridge plant has a capacity of 200 MMcf per day.
Our midstream assets also include the Access Pipeline transportation system in Canada. This 220-mile dual pipeline system extends from our Jackfish operations in northern Alberta to a 350 MBbls storage terminal in Edmonton. The dual pipeline system allows us to blend the Jackfish heavy oil production with condensate and transport the combined product to the Edmonton crude oil market for sale. We have a 50% ownership interest in the Access Pipeline.
Proved Reserves and Estimated Future Net Revenue
The SEC defines proved oil and gas reserves as the estimated quantities of crude oil, gas and NGLs that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Existing economic and operating conditions is defined as those prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions.
The process of estimating oil, gas and NGL reserves is complex and requires significant judgment as discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” As a result, we have developed internal policies for estimating and recording reserves. Our policies regarding booking reserves require proved reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance. Our policies assign responsibilities for compliance in reserves bookings to our Reserve Evaluation Group (the “Group”) and require that reserve estimates be made by qualified reserves estimators (“QREs”), as defined by the Society of Petroleum Engineers’ standards. A list of our QREs is kept by the Senior Advisor - Corporate Reserves. All QREs are required to receive education covering the fundamentals of SEC proved reserves assignments.
The Group is responsible for the internal review and certification of reserve estimates and includes the Director - Reserves and Economics and the Senior Advisor - Corporate Reserves. The Group reports independently of any of our operating divisions. The Senior Vice President - Strategic Development is directly responsible for overseeing the Group and reports to our President. No portion of the Group’s compensation is directly dependent on the quantity of reserves booked.
Throughout the year, the Group performs internal audits of each operating division’s reserves. Selection criteria of reserves that are audited include major fields and major additions and revisions to reserves. In addition, the Group reviews reserve estimates with each of the third-party petroleum consultants discussed below.
In addition to internal audits, we engage three independent petroleum consulting firms to both prepare and audit a significant portion of our proved reserves. Ryder Scott Company, L.P. prepared the 2008 reserve estimates for all of our offshore Gulf of Mexico properties and for 99% of our International proved reserves. LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. audited the 2008 reserve estimates for 90% of our domestic onshore properties. AJM Petroleum Consultants audited 78% of our Canadian reserves.
Set forth below is a summary of the reserves that were evaluated, either by preparation or audit, by independent petroleum consultants for each of the years ended 2008, 2007 and 2006.
“Prepared” reserves are those quantities of reserves that were prepared by an independent petroleum consultant. “Audited” reserves are those quantities of reserves that were estimated by our employees and audited by an independent petroleum consultant. An audit is an examination of a company’s proved oil and gas reserves and net cash flow by an independent petroleum consultant that is conducted for the purpose of expressing an opinion as to whether such estimates, in aggregate, are reasonable and have been estimated and presented in conformity with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles.
In addition to conducting these internal and external reviews, we also have a Reserves Committee which consists of three independent members of our Board of Directors. Although we are not required to have a Reserves Committee, we established ours in 2004 to provide additional oversight of our reserves estimation and certification process. The Reserves Committee was designed to assist the Board of Directors with its duties and responsibilities in evaluating and reporting our proved reserves, much like our Audit Committee assists the Board of Directors in supervising our audit and financial reporting requirements. Besides being independent, the members of our Reserves Committee also have educational backgrounds in geology or petroleum engineering, as well as experience relevant to the reserves estimation process.
The Reserves Committee meets at least twice a year to discuss reserves issues and policies, and periodically meets separately with our senior reserves engineering personnel and our independent petroleum consultants. The responsibilities of the Reserves Committee include the following:
•
perform an annual review and evaluation of our consolidated oil, gas and NGL reserves;
•
verify the integrity of our reserves evaluation and reporting system;
•
evaluate, prepare and disclose our compliance with legal and regulatory requirements related to our oil, gas and NGL reserves;
•
investigate and verify the qualifications and independence of our independent engineering consultants;
•
monitor the performance of our independent engineering consultants; and
•
monitor and evaluate our business practices and ethical standards in relation to the preparation and disclosure of reserves.
The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves and related estimated cash flow information as of December 31, 2008. These estimates correspond with the method used in presenting the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Operations” in Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements included herein.
(1)
Gas reserves are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas and oil prices. NGL reserves are converted to Boe on a one-to-one basis with oil.
(2)
Estimated pre-tax future net revenue represents estimated future revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and development costs and site restoration and
abandonment charges. The amounts shown do not give effect to depreciation, depletion and amortization, or to non-property related expenses such as debt service and income tax expense.
These amounts were calculated using prices and costs in effect for each individual property as of December 31, 2008. These prices were not changed except where different prices were fixed and determinable from applicable contracts. These assumptions yielded average prices over the life of our properties of $32.65 per Bbl of oil, $4.75 per Mcf of gas and $16.54 per Bbl of NGLs. These prices compare to the December 31, 2008, NYMEX cash price of $44.60 per Bbl for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price of $5.71 per MMBtu for gas.
The present value of after-tax future net revenues discounted at 10% per annum (“standardized measure”) was $10.5 billion at the end of 2008. Included as part of standardized measure were discounted future income taxes of $3.7 billion. Excluding these taxes, the present value of our pre-tax future net revenue (“pre-tax 10% present value”) was $14.2 billion. We believe the pre-tax 10% present value is a useful measure in addition to the after-tax standardized measure. The pre-tax 10% present value assists in both the determination of future cash flows of the current reserves as well as in making relative value comparisons among peer companies. The after-tax standardized measure is dependent on the unique tax situation of each individual company, while the pre-tax 10% present value is based on prices and discount factors, which are more consistent from company to company. We also understand that securities analysts use the pre-tax 10% present value measure in similar ways.
(3)
See Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”
As presented in the previous table, we had 1,934 MMBoe of proved developed reserves at December 31, 2008. Proved developed reserves consist of proved developed producing reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves. The following table provides additional information regarding our proved developed reserves at December 31, 2008.
No estimates of our proved reserves have been filed with or included in reports to any federal or foreign governmental authority or agency since the beginning of 2008 except in filings with the SEC and the Department of Energy (“DOE”). Reserve estimates filed with the SEC correspond with the estimates of our reserves contained herein. Reserve estimates filed with the DOE are based upon the same underlying technical and economic assumptions as the estimates of our reserves included herein. However, the DOE requires reports to include the interests of all owners in wells that we operate and to exclude all interests in wells that we do not operate.
The prices used in calculating the estimated future net revenues attributable to proved reserves do not necessarily reflect market prices for oil, gas and NGL production subsequent to December 31, 2008. There can be no assurance that all of the proved reserves will be produced and sold within the periods indicated, that the assumed prices will be realized or that existing contracts will be honored or judicially enforced.
Production, Revenue and Price History
Certain information concerning oil, gas and NGL production, prices, revenues (net of all royalties, overriding royalties and other third-party interests) and operating expenses for the three years ended December 31, 2008, is set forth in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
Drilling Activities
The following tables summarize the results of our development and exploratory drilling activity for the past three years. The tables do not include our Egyptian or West African operations that were discontinued in 2006 and 2007, respectively.
Development Well Activity
Exploratory Well Activity
(1)
Gross wells are the sum of all wells in which we own an interest.
(2)
Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests therein.
For the wells being drilled as of December 31, 2008 presented in the tables above, the following table summarizes the results of such wells as of February 1, 2009.
Well Statistics
The following table sets forth our producing wells as of December 31, 2008.
(1)
Gross wells are the total number of wells in which we own a working interest.
(2)
Net wells are gross wells multiplied by our fractional working interests therein.
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
The following table sets forth our developed and undeveloped oil and gas lease and mineral acreage as of December 31, 2008.
(1)
Gross acres are the total number of acres in which we own a working interest.
(2)
Net acres are gross acres multiplied by our fractional working interests therein.
Operation of Properties
The day-to-day operations of oil and gas properties are the responsibility of an operator designated under pooling or operating agreements. The operator supervises production, maintains production records, employs field personnel and performs other functions.
We are the operator of 22,527 of our wells. As operator, we receive reimbursement for direct expenses incurred in the performance of our duties as well as monthly per-well producing and drilling overhead reimbursement at rates customarily charged in the area. In presenting our financial data, we record the monthly overhead reimbursements as a reduction of general and administrative expense, which is a common industry practice.
Organization Structure and Property Profiles
Our properties are located within the U.S. onshore and offshore regions, Canada, and certain locations outside North America. The following table presents proved reserve information for our significant properties as of December 31, 2008, along with their production volumes for the year 2008. Additional summary profile information for our significant properties is provided following the table.
We have certain North American onshore and offshore properties we consider to be significant because they may be the source of significant future growth in proved reserves and production. However, these
properties are not included in the following table because as of December 31, 2008, such properties had only minimal, if any, proved reserves or production. Onshore, these properties include the Haynesville, Cana and Cody properties in the U.S. and the Horn River Basin properties in Canada. Offshore, these properties include our deepwater development and exploration properties in the Gulf of Mexico. These properties and our related development plans are discussed along with our other significant properties following the table.
Also, as presented in the table, we had no proved reserves associated with our Jackfish operations as of December 31, 2008. During 2008 and thus far in 2009, we have been producing heavy oil from our Jackfish property. However, due to low crude oil prices and unfavorable operating conditions as of December 31, 2008, our Jackfish reserves did not meet the existing economic and operating condition requirement to be classified as proved at the end of 2008.
(1)
Gas reserves and production are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of gas and oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the
relationship of gas and oil prices. NGL reserves and production are converted to Boe on a one-to-one basis with oil.
(2)
Percentage of proved reserves and production the property bears to total proved reserves and production based on actual figures and not the rounded figures included in this table.
U.S. Onshore
Barnett Shale - The Barnett Shale, located in north Texas, is our largest property both in terms of production and proved reserves. Our leases include approximately 715,000 net acres located primarily in Denton, Johnson, Parker, Tarrant and Wise counties. The Barnett Shale is a non-conventional reservoir and it produces natural gas and NGLs. We have an average working interest of greater than 90%. We drilled 659 gross wells in 2008.
Carthage - The Carthage area in east Texas includes primarily Harrison, Marion, Panola and Shelby counties. Our average working interest is about 85% and we hold approximately 173,000 net acres. Our Carthage area wells produce primarily natural gas and NGLs from conventional reservoirs. We drilled 132 gross wells in 2008.
Permian Basin, Texas - Our oil and gas properties in the Permian Basin of west Texas comprise approximately 470,000 net acres located primarily in Andrews, Crane, Ector, Martin, Terry, Ward and Yoakum counties. These properties produce both oil and gas from conventional reservoirs. Our average working interest in these properties is about 40%. We drilled 71 gross wells in 2008.
Washakie - Our Washakie area leases are concentrated in Carbon and Sweetwater counties in southern Wyoming. Our average working interest is about 76% and we hold about 157,000 net acres in the area. The Washakie wells produce primarily natural gas from conventional reservoirs. In 2008, we drilled 115 gross wells.
Groesbeck - The Groesbeck area of east Texas includes portions of Freestone, Leon, Limestone and Robertson counties. Our average working interest is approximately 72% and we hold about 168,000 net acres of land. The Groesbeck wells produce primarily natural gas from conventional reservoirs. In 2008, we drilled 16 gross wells.
Woodford Shale - Our Woodford Shale properties in southeastern Oklahoma produce natural gas and NGLs from a non-conventional reservoir. Our 54,000 net acres are concentrated in Coal and Hughes counties and have an average working interest of about 57%. In 2008, we drilled 131 gross wells in this area. To support our production in the Woodford Shale, we also brought online a 200 MMcf per day natural gas processing plant in 2008.
2009 Development Plans - We expect 2009 oil, gas and NGL prices will be noticeably lower than those for 2008. As a result, we expect our operating cash flow will also be lower than that for 2008 and will require us to scale back our anticipated capital expenditures in 2009 compared to 2008. Accordingly, we expect to drill fewer wells in 2009 than in 2008 for the key U.S. Onshore areas discussed above.
Our reduction in 2009 drilling activities in these areas is also related to our plan to devote a portion of our planned 2009 capital expenditures to develop three new unconventional natural gas plays. In 2008, we built a position of nearly 1.3 million net acres in these unconventional natural gas plays. In east Texas and north Louisiana we have accumulated approximately 570,000 net acres prospective for the Haynesville shale formation. In western Oklahoma, our Cana leasehold position targets the deep Woodford shale formation in the Anadarko Basin. We hold about 112,000 net acres in the Cana area. In south central Montana, we have accumulated a significant leasehold position for our Cody project area. We hold approximately 575,000 net acres in this region. In 2009, we will continue to evaluate our acreage and drill wells in these emerging plays to assess the reserve and production potential of our acreage position.
U.S. Offshore
Deepwater Producing - Our assets in the Gulf of Mexico include three significant producing properties - Magnolia, Merganser and Nansen - located in deep water (greater than 600 feet). We have a 50% working interest in Merganser and Nansen and a 25% working interest in Magnolia. The three fields are located on federal leases and total approximately 23,000 net acres. The properties produce both oil and gas.
Deepwater Development - In addition to our three significant deepwater producing properties, we will continue development activities on our deepwater Cascade project throughout 2009. Cascade was discovered in 2002 and is located on federal leases encompassing approximately 12,000 net acres. We have a 50% working interest in Cascade. Production from Cascade, which will be primarily oil, is expected to begin in 2010. Cascade will be the first project in the Gulf to utilize an FPSO.
Deepwater Exploration - Our exploration program in the Gulf of Mexico is focused primarily on deepwater opportunities. Our deepwater exploratory prospects include Miocene-aged objectives (five million to 24 million years) and older and deeper Lower Tertiary objectives. We hold federal leases comprising approximately one million net acres in our deepwater exploration inventory.
In 2006, a successful production test of the Jack No. 2 well provided evidence that our Lower Tertiary properties may be a source of meaningful future reserve and production growth. Through 2008, we have drilled four discovery wells in the Lower Tertiary. These include Cascade in 2002 (see “Deepwater Development” above), St. Malo in 2003, Jack in 2004 and Kaskida in 2006. We currently hold 161 blocks in the Lower Tertiary and we have identified 21 additional prospects to date.
At St. Malo, in which our working interest is 25%, we drilled two delineation wells in 2008. At Jack, where our working interest is 25%, we drilled a second appraisal well in 2008. A sidetrack appraisal well was drilled on the Kaskida unit in 2008 and we commenced an additional delineation well in late 2008. Our working interest in Kaskida is 30%, and we believe Kaskida is the largest of our four Lower Tertiary discoveries to date.
Also in 2008, we participated in a sidetrack delineation well on the Miocene-aged Mission Deep discovery in which we have a 50% working interest. We have identified 14 additional prospects in our deepwater Miocene inventory to date.
In total, we drilled seven exploratory and appraisal wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico in 2008. Our working interests in these exploratory opportunities range from 25% to 50%. In 2009, we will continue to perform additional delineation drilling and continue to plan the development of Jack and St. Malo.
Canada
Lloydminster - Our Lloydminster properties are located to the south and east of Jackfish in eastern Alberta and western Saskatchewan. Lloydminster produces heavy oil by conventional means without steam injection. We hold 2.5 million net acres and have an 89% average working interest in our Lloydminster properties. In 2008, we drilled 425 gross wells in the area.
Peace River Arch - The Peace River Arch is located in west central Alberta. We hold approximately 569,000 net acres in the area, which produces primarily natural gas and NGLs from conventional reservoirs. Our average working interest in the area is approximately 70%. We drilled 66 gross wells in the Peace River Arch in 2008.
Deep Basin - Our properties in Canada’s Deep Basin include portions of west central Alberta and east central British Columbia. We hold approximately 602,000 net acres in the Deep Basin. The area produces primarily natural gas and natural gas liquids from conventional reservoirs. Our average working interest in the Deep Basin is 45%. In 2008, we drilled 61 gross wells.
Northeast British Columbia - Our northeast British Columbia properties are located primarily in British Columbia and to a lesser extent in northwestern Alberta. We hold approximately 1.7 million net acres in the
area. These properties produce principally natural gas from conventional reservoirs. We hold a 76% average working interest in these properties. We drilled 37 gross wells in the area in 2008.
Jackfish - By the end of 2008, we ramped up production from our 100%-owned Jackfish thermal heavy oil project in the non-conventional oil sands of east central Alberta to 22,000 Bbls per day. We are employing steam-assisted gravity drainage at Jackfish. Production is expected to increase in 2009 to its peak production target of 35,000 Bbls per day. We hold approximately 75,000 net acres in the entire Jackfish area, which can support expansion of the original project. In 2008, we received regulatory approval to develop a second phase of Jackfish. Like the first phase, this second phase of Jackfish is also expected to eventually produce 35,000 Bbls per day of heavy oil production.
2009 Development Plans - Similar to our 2009 plans for our U.S. Onshore areas discussed above, we expect to drill fewer wells in 2009 than in 2008 for the key areas in Canada discussed above. Our plans to drill fewer wells in these areas is also affected by our intentions to devote a portion of our planned 2009 capital expenditures to develop our positions in the Horn River Basin in northeast British Columbia. In 2008, we accumulated approximately 153,000 net acres targeting the Devonian shale in this area. In 2009, we will continue to evaluate our acreage and drill wells in this area to assess the reserve and production potential of our acreage position.
International
Azerbaijan - Outside North America, Devon’s largest international property in terms of proved reserves is the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli (“ACG”) oil field located offshore Azerbaijan in the Caspian Sea. ACG produces crude oil from conventional reservoirs. We hold approximately 6,000 net acres in the ACG field and have a 5.6% working interest. In 2008, we participated in drilling 15 gross wells.
China - Our production in China is from the Panyu development in the Pearl River Mouth Basin in the South China Sea. The Panyu fields produce oil from conventional reservoirs. In addition to Panyu, which is located on Block 15/34, we hold leases in four exploratory blocks offshore China. In total, we have 7.9 million net acres under lease in China. We have a 24.5% working interest at Panyu and 100% working interests in the exploratory blocks. We drilled seven gross wells in China in 2008.
Brazil - In 2008, we continued to ramp up production from our Polvo development, which we operate with a 60% working interest. Polvo is located offshore in the Campos Basin in Block BM-C-8. We experienced mechanical issues during 2008 at Polvo that delayed bringing a portion of our expected production online. As of December 31, 2008, the mechanical issues appear to have been corrected, and we exited the year with gross production at approximately 17,000 Bbls per day. In addition to our development project at Polvo, we hold acreage in eight exploratory blocks. In aggregate, we have 1.4 million net acres in Brazil. Our working interests range from 18% to 100% in these blocks. We drilled 12 gross wells in Brazil in 2008 and over the next two years we plan to drill up to eight exploratory wells.
Title to Properties
Title to properties is subject to contractual arrangements customary in the oil and gas industry, liens for current taxes not yet due and, in some instances, other encumbrances. We believe that such burdens do not materially detract from the value of such properties or from the respective interests therein or materially interfere with their use in the operation of the business.
As is customary in the industry, other than a preliminary review of local records, little investigation of record title is made at the time of acquisitions of undeveloped properties. Investigations, which generally include a title opinion of outside counsel, are made prior to the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties.
Item 3.