Item 2.
Properties
Substantially all of Devon’s properties consist of interests in developed and undeveloped oil and gas leases and mineral acreage located in Devon’s core operating areas. These interests entitle Devon to drill for and produce oil, natural gas and NGLs from specific areas. Devon’s interests are mostly in the form of working interests and, to a lesser extent, overriding royalty, volumetric production payments, foreign government concessions, mineral and net profits interests and other forms of direct and indirect ownership in oil and gas properties.
Devon also has certain midstream assets, including natural gas and NGL processing plants and pipeline systems. Devon’s most significant midstream assets are its 3,100 mile Bridgeport pipeline system and 650 MMcf per day Bridgeport gas processing plant located in North Texas.
Proved Reserves and Estimated Future Net Revenue
Set forth below is a summary of the reserves which were evaluated by independent petroleum consultants for each of the years ended 2003, 2002 and 2001.
“Prepared” reserves are those estimates of quantities of reserves which were prepared by an independent petroleum consultant. “Audited” reserves are those quantities of reserves which were estimated by Devon employees and audited by an independent petroleum consultant.
The domestic reserves were evaluated by the independent petroleum consultants of LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. and Ryder Scott Company, L.P. in each of the years presented. The Canadian reserves were evaluated by the independent petroleum consultants of AJM Petroleum
Consultants in 2003 and 2002, and Paddock Lindstrom & Associates and Gilbert Laustsen Jung Associates, Ltd. in 2001. The International reserves were evaluated by the independent petroleum consultants of Ryder Scott Company, L.P. in each of the years presented.
Devon follows what it believes to be a rational approach to not only recording oil and gas reserves, but also to subjecting these reserves to reviews by independent petroleum consultants. The reserve estimates for all of our Gulf of Mexico and international properties are prepared by an independent petroleum consulting firm every year (excluding 2% of Devon’s 2003 international reserves that were estimated by in-house engineers). In Canada, another independent petroleum consulting firm prepares a rolling one-third of our properties each year so that the reserve estimates for all the Canadian properties are prepared by outside engineers over a three-year cycle.
For the U.S. onshore properties, reserve estimates of individually significant properties are either prepared or audited by an independent petroleum consulting firm, while estimates of minor properties are prepared by in-house engineers. This approach results in independent engineers preparing or auditing over 50% of our U.S. onshore reserves each year.
Over any three-year period, more than 95% of Devon’s company-wide reserve estimates are prepared or audited by an independent petroleum consulting firm. Devon believes this approach provides a high degree of assurance about the validity of our reserve estimates. This is evidenced by the fact that in the past four years, Devon’s annual revisions to its reserve estimates have averaged approximately 2% of the previous year’s estimate.
The following table sets forth Devon’s estimated proved reserves and the related estimated future net revenues, pre-tax 10% Present Value and after-tax standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2003. These estimates correspond with the method used in presenting the “Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Operations” in Note 18 to Devon’s Consolidated Financial Statements included herein.
(1)
Gas reserves are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of natural gas to oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas to oil prices. NGL reserves are converted to Boe on a one-to-one basis with oil. The respective prices of gas and oil are affected by market conditions and other factors in addition to relative energy content.
(2)
Estimated future net revenue represents estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and development costs. The amounts shown do not give effect to non-property related expenses such as debt service and future income tax expense or to depreciation, depletion and amortization.
These amounts were calculated using prices and costs in effect as of December 31, 2003. These prices were not changed except where different prices were fixed and determinable from applicable contracts. These assumptions yield average prices over the life of Devon’s properties of $27.55 per Bbl of oil, $5.18 per Mcf of natural gas and $21.22 per Bbl of NGLs. These prices compare to December 31, 2003, New York Mercantile Exchange prices of $32.52 per Bbl for crude oil and $5.97 per MMBtu for natural gas.
(3)
See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.
No estimates of Devon’s proved reserves have been filed with or included in reports to any federal or foreign governmental authority or agency since the beginning of the last fiscal year except (i) in filings with the SEC and Canadian Securities Regulators and (ii) in filings with the Department of Energy (“DOE”). Reserve estimates filed by Devon with the SEC and Canadian Securities Regulators correspond with the estimates of Devon reserves contained herein. Reserve estimates filed with the DOE are based upon the same underlying technical and economic assumptions as the estimates of Devon’s reserves included herein. However, the DOE requires reports to include the interests of all owners in wells that Devon operates and to exclude all interests in wells that Devon does not operate.
The prices used in calculating the estimated future net revenues attributable to proved reserves do not necessarily reflect market prices for oil, gas and NGL production subsequent to December 31, 2003. There
can be no assurance that all of the proved reserves will be produced and sold within the periods indicated, that the assumed prices will be realized or that existing contracts will be honored or judicially enforced.
The process of estimating oil, gas and NGLs reserves is complex, requiring significant subjective decisions in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. The data for a given reservoir may change substantially over time as a result of, among other things, additional development activity, production history and viability of production under varying economic conditions. Consequently, material revisions to existing reserve estimates may occur in the future.
Production, Revenue and Price History
Certain information concerning oil and natural gas production, prices, revenues (net of all royalties, overriding royalties and other third party interests) and operating expenses for the three years ended December 31, 2003, is set forth in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”.
Well Statistics
The following table sets forth Devon’s producing wells as of December 31, 2003:
(1)
Gross wells are the total number of wells in which Devon owns a working interest.
(2)
Net refers to gross wells multiplied by Devon’s fractional working interests therein.
Devon also held numerous overriding royalty interests in oil and gas wells, a portion of which are convertible to working interests after recovery of certain costs by third parties. After converting to working interests, these overriding royalty interests will be included in Devon’s gross and net well count.
Developed and Undeveloped Acreage
The following table sets forth Devon’s developed and undeveloped oil and gas lease and mineral acreage as of December 31, 2003.
(1)
Gross acres are the total number of acres in which Devon owns a working interest.
(2)
Net refers to gross acres multiplied by Devon’s fractional working interests therein.
Operation of Properties
The day-to-day operation of oil and gas properties are the responsibility of an operator designated under pooling or operating agreements. The operator supervises production, maintains production records, employs field personnel and performs other functions. The charges under operating agreements customarily vary with the depth and location of the well being operated.
Devon is the operator of 18,037 of its wells. As operator, Devon receives reimbursement for direct expenses incurred in the performance of its duties as well as monthly per-well producing and drilling overhead reimbursement at rates customarily charged in the area. In presenting its financial data, Devon records the monthly overhead reimbursements as a reduction of general and administrative expense, which is a common industry practice.
Organization Structure
Devon’s North American properties are concentrated within five geographic areas. Operations in the United States are focused in the Permian Basin, the Mid-Continent, the Rocky Mountains and onshore and offshore Gulf Coast regions. Canadian operations are focused in the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin in Alberta and British Columbia. Operations outside North America currently include Azerbaijan, Brazil, China, Egypt, Indonesia, Russia, Syria, and areas in West Africa, including Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Cote d’Ivoire, Nigeria and Angola. Maintaining a tight geographic focus in selected core areas has allowed Devon to improve operating and capital efficiency.
The following table sets forth proved reserve information on the most significant geographic areas in which Devon’s properties are located as of December 31, 2003.
(1)
Gas reserves are converted to Boe at the rate of six Mcf of gas per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of natural gas to oil, which rate is not necessarily indicative of the relationship of gas to oil prices. NGL reserves are converted to Boe on a one-to-one basis with oil. The respective prices of gas and oil are affected by market and other factors in addition to relative energy content.
(2)
Percentage which MMBoe for the basin or region bears to total MMBoe for all proved reserves.
(3)
Determined in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 69, Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities (“SFAS No. 69”), except that no effect is given to future income taxes.
(4)
Percentages which present value for the basin or region bears to total present value for all proved reserves.
(5)
Determined in accordance with SFAS No. 69.
(6)
Canadian dollars converted to U.S. dollars at the rate of $1 Canadian: $0.7738 U.S.
United States
Permian Basin
Devon’s Permian Basin assets are located in portions of Southeast New Mexico and West Texas. These assets include conventional oil and gas properties from a wide variety of geologic formations and productive depths. The Permian Basin represented 8% of Devon’s proved reserves at December 31, 2003.
Devon’s leasehold position in Southeast New Mexico encompasses more than 102,000 acres of developed lands and 237,000 acres of undeveloped land and minerals. Historically, Devon has been a very active operator in this area developing gas from the high productivity Morrow formation and oil in the lower risk Delaware formation.
In the West Texas area of the Permian Basin, Devon maintains a base of oil production with long-life reserves. Many of these reserves are from both operated and non-operated positions in large enhanced oil recovery units such as the Wasson ODC Unit, the Willard Unit, the Reeves Unit, the North Welch Unit and the Anton Irish (Clearfork) Unit. These oil-producing units often exhibit low decline rates. Devon also owns a significant acreage position in West Texas with over 194,000 acres of developed lands and over 224,000 acres of undeveloped land and minerals at December 31, 2003.
Mid-Continent
The Mid-Continent region includes portions of Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas. These areas encompass a wide variety of geologic formations and productive depths and produce both oil and natural gas. Devon’s Mid-Continent production has historically come from conventional oil and gas properties. However, the Barnett Shale, acquired in our 2002 merger with Mitchell Energy, is a non-conventional gas resource. The Mid-Continent region represented 19% of Devon’s proved reserves at December 31, 2003. Approximately 76% of Devon’s proved reserves in the Mid-Continent area are in the Barnett Shale.
The Barnett Shale, Devon’s largest producing field, is known as a tight gas formation. This means that, in its natural state, the formation is resistant to the production of natural gas. Mitchell spent decades understanding how to efficiently develop and produce this gas. The resulting technology has yielded a low-risk and highly profitable natural gas operation. Devon holds 525,000 net acres and nearly 1,600 producing wells in the Barnett Shale. Devon’s average working interest is approximately 95%.
Devon has experienced success extracting gas from the Barnett Shale by using light sand fracturing. Light sand fracturing yields better results than earlier techniques, is less expensive and can be used to complete new wells and to refracture existing wells. Refractured wells often exceed their original flow rates. Devon is also applying horizontal drilling and closer well spacing to further enhance the value of the Barnett Shale.
Devon’s marketing and midstream operations transport and process its Barnett Shale production along with Barnett Shale production from unrelated third parties. The transport system consists of approximately 3,100 miles of pipeline, a 650 MMcf per day gas processing plant, and a 15,000 Bbls per day NGL fractionator.
In 2004, Devon plans to drill a total of 192 new Barnett Shale wells including 94 horizontals and 98 verticals. More than half of the horizontal wells will be drilled outside the core development area in an
effort to further expand the productive area of the field. The Barnett Shale is expected to continue to be an important producing area for Devon for the foreseeable future. Current production from the Barnett Shale is approximately 428 MMcf and 24,100 Bbls of oil and NGLs per day net.
Rocky Mountains
Devon’s operations in the Rocky Mountain region include properties in Wyoming, Montana, Utah, and Northern New Mexico. These assets include conventional oil and gas properties and coalbed methane projects. As of December 31, 2003, the Rocky Mountain region comprised 9% of Devon’s proved reserves.
Approximately 38% of Devon’s proved reserves in the Rocky Mountains are from coalbed methane. Devon began producing coalbed methane in the San Juan Basin of New Mexico in the mid-1980s and began drilling coalbed methane wells in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming in 1998. As of December 31, 2003, Devon has drilled 1,600 coalbed methane wells in the Powder River Basin. Devon’s net coalbed methane gas production from the basin was approximately 88 MMcf per day as of December 31, 2003, and Devon plans to drill 110 new wells in the Powder River Basin in 2004. Current production in the basin is primarily from the Wyodak coal formation. Development of the deeper Big George formation could significantly expand the coalbed methane play into the western portion of the Powder River Basin. The recently approved federal Environmental Impact Statement should facilitate development of the deeper formation. Eighty-five of the wells planned in 2004 target these deeper coals.
Devon’s most significant conventional gas project in the Rocky Mountains region is the Washakie field in Wyoming. Devon is continuing to develop and grow production from this field. In 2003, Devon drilled 38 wells and plans to drill another 40 wells in 2004. Devon has interests in over 200,000 acres. Devon’s current net production from Washakie is approximately 81 MMcf and 1,000 Bbls of oil and NGLs per day.
Gulf Coast
Devon’s Gulf Coast properties are located in South and East Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi. Most of the wells in the region are completed in conventional sandstone formations. At December 31, 2003, the Gulf Coast accounted for approximately 10% of Devon’s proved reserves.
Devon’s operations in South Texas have focused on exploration in the Edwards, Wilcox and Frio/ Vicksburg formations. Devon has high working interests, up to 100%, in several producing fields.
East Texas is an important conventional gas producing region for Devon. Carthage/ Bethany and Groesbeck are two of the primary producing areas. Wells produce from the Cotton Valley sands, the Travis Peak sands and from shallower sands and carbonates. Devon operates over 1,300 producing wells in East Texas and is currently employing a five-rig drilling and recompletion program to continue low-risk, infill development throughout the area. Devon’s current net production from east Texas is about 187 MMcf and 8,000 Bbls of oil and NGLs per day.
Gulf of Mexico
The offshore Gulf of Mexico accounted for 17% of Devon’s 2003 production and 11% of year-end proved reserves. Devon is among the largest independent oil and gas producers in the Gulf of Mexico and operates 450 platforms and caissons. The 2003 merger with Ocean more than tripled Devon’s Gulf reserves. Gulf of Mexico operations are typically differentiated by water depth. The shelf is defined by water depths of 600 feet or less. The deepwater is at depths beyond 600 feet. Devon has active development and drilling programs ongoing in both the shelf and deepwater areas.
In the Ocean merger, Devon acquired interests in the Nansen/ Boomvang complex in the East Breaks area of the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Devon acquired a 50% working interest in the Nansen field and a 20% interest in the Boomvang field. Ocean established oil and natural gas production at Nansen/ Boomvang in 2002. The Nansen and Boomvang production spars have a combined daily production
capacity of 80,000 Bbls of oil and 400 MMcf of gas. Devon’s share of current production from the fields is about 21,000 Bbls of oil and 120 MMcf of gas per day.
Ocean had two additional deepwater development projects under construction in 2003. Redhawk (Garden Banks 876) is expected to commence production in the second half of 2004. Devon has a 50% working interest in Redhawk and estimates net production at about 10,000 Boe per day. Magnolia (Garden Banks 783) is expected to commence production near year-end 2004. Devon has a 25% working interest in this project. Net production is estimated at between 9,000 and 12,000 Boe per day.
In the deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico, Devon drilled two exploratory discovery wells in 2003. The Sturgis well (Atwater Valley 182) found more than 100 net feet of oil pay sands. Sturgis, in 3,700 feet of water, was the second well in Devon’s four-well joint venture with ChevronTexaco. Upon completion of the fourth well, Devon will earn a 25% working interest in 71 deepwater blocks. The fourth well is planned for early 2004.
The second deepwater discovery in 2003 was at St. Malo (Walker Ridge 678). St. Malo, in 6,900 feet of water, encountered more than 450 net feet of oil pay. St. Malo and the previously announced Cascade discovery (Walker Ridge 206) are located in the lower Tertiary trend. Based on early evidence, the lower Tertiary trend may hold significant reserve potential. Devon plans to drill appraisal wells to better define the St. Malo and Cascade discoveries in the first half of 2004. Devon also plans to drill an appraisal well to the Sturgis discovery and additional lower Tertiary exploratory wells during 2004.
In 2003, Devon had a notable shelf discovery on its Grays prospect (Galveston block 424). Three producing wells from this discovery were brought on production in early 2004 at approximately 27 MMcf per day net to Devon’s interest.
The federal government is encouraging Gulf of Mexico operators to drill deep shelf wells, wells drilled on the shelf to a depth greater than 15,000 feet, through a reduced royalty incentive program. Devon plans to drill 10 to 12 deep shelf wells in 2004.
Canada
Devon is among the largest independent oil and gas producers in Canada and operates in most of the producing basins in Western Canada. As of December 31, 2003, 28% of Devon’s proved reserves were Canadian. Many of the Canadian basins where Devon operates are accessible for drilling only in the winter when the ground is frozen. Consequently, the winter season, from December through March, is the most active drilling period.
Devon expects to drill about 400 wells in the 2003-2004 winter program and spend $360 million, or nearly half of the full year Canadian capital budget. The winter drilling is focused on three major areas: the Deep Basin, Northeastern British Columbia and the Northern Plains of Alberta. In the Deep Basin, plans call for 106 wells compared with 71 wells last winter. In Northeastern B.C., 93 wells are planned, compared with 73 the previous winter. In the Northern Plains, we expect to drill more than 100 wells this winter, compared with 76 wells a year ago.
The Anderson acquisition in 2001 significantly strengthened Devon’s holdings in the Deep Basin of Western Alberta. Devon had sought for years to obtain a significant acreage position in the Deep Basin, but other operators, including Anderson, already controlled most of the acreage. As a result of the Anderson acquisition, Devon now holds over 800,000 net acres in the Deep Basin. The profitability of Devon’s operations in the Deep Basin is enhanced by its ownership in nine gas processing plants in the area. Devon plans to drill about 193 total wells in the Deep Basin in 2004. Deep Basin reservoirs tend to be rich in liquids, producing up to 100 barrels of NGLs with each MMcf of gas.
In 2002, Devon commenced production from the first of several wells it has drilled in the Grizzly Valley area of the Foothills Region of Northeastern British Columbia. Due to gas pipeline and processing limitations, initial production was limited to about 10 MMcf of gas per day. However, a pipeline extension completed in 2003 allowed Devon to increase production from this area to about 30 MMcf per day. With
the pipeline extension complete, Devon can continue to tie in additional wells in the area. Net production from the entire Foothills region is approximately 130 MMcf of gas per day.
Devon also acquired from Anderson approximately 1.5 million net acres in the MacKenzie Delta region and the shallow waters of the Beaufort Sea in Northern Canada. In 2002, a Devon well in the MacKenzie Delta encountered over 110 feet of natural gas pay. Production of this gas awaits an export pipeline to markets in Canada and the United States. Various industry proposals suggest that a pipeline could be built later in the decade.
Devon also drills for and produces “cold-flow” heavy oil in the Lloydminster area of Alberta and Saskatchewan where oil is found in multiple horizons generally at depths of 1,000 to 2,000 feet. In 2003, Devon drilled 263 wells in the Lloydminster area. Average net daily production from the area is approximately 34 MMcf of natural gas and 13,300 Bbls of crude oil.
Devon also owns a 13% working interest in the ConocoPhillips-operated Surmont thermal heavy oil project. Surmont, located north of Jackfish, is designed to produce up to 100,000 barrels of heavy oil per day by 2012. Surmont will also apply SAGD recovery technology.
International
The Ocean merger more than doubled Devon’s oil and gas reserves outside North America. At December 31, 2003, these international countries accounted for 15% of Devon’s worldwide proved reserves. Most significant was Ocean’s 24% working interest in the Exxon-Mobil-operated Zafiro field, offshore Equatorial Guinea in West Africa. During 2003, production from Zafiro increased significantly due to the addition of the Southern Expansion Area (SEA) in July. Production from the SEA increased total field capacity to 300,000 barrels of oil per day. Devon’s net share increased by about 15,000 barrels to more than 50,000 barrels per day. Devon’s production from Zafiro is expected to decline by about 7,000 barrels per day in the second quarter of 2004. The decline will occur when Devon reaches payout of a portion of its investment in the project and the government’s share of production increases.
Devon experienced another boost in international production in 2003 when its Panyu project offshore China commenced production late in the year. Panyu, in the Pearl River Mouth of the South China Sea, was discovered in 1998. In early 2004, production from the first eight of 27 planned wells reached 50,000 barrels per day. Devon has a 24.5% working interest in the project and expects its share of production to average about 16,000 barrels per day in 2004.
In Azerbaijan in the Caspian Sea, Devon has a 5.6% carried working interest in the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli, or ACG, oil development project. Devon estimates that the ACG field contains over 4.6 billion barrels of gross proved oil reserves. Oil production from the ACG field will increase dramatically upon completion of the Baku-T’Bilisi-Ceyhan pipeline, which is planned for 2005. Devon’s net share is expected to peak at about 50,000 barrels per day in 2008 or 2009.
Devon also acquired minor producing properties in the Ocean merger in Cote d’Ivoire, Egypt, Indonesia and Russia. Ocean also held exploratory blocks in Angola, Brazil, Equatorial Guinea, Nigeria and Syria. Devon plans to drill exploratory wells in each of the aforementioned countries, except Cote d’Ivoire and Indonesia, in 2004. Devon also produces oil and holds exploratory blocks in Gabon.
Title to Properties
Title to properties is subject to contractual arrangements customary in the oil and gas industry, liens for current taxes not yet due and, in some instances, other encumbrances. Devon believes that such burdens do not materially detract from the value of such properties or from the respective interests therein or materially interfere with their use in the operation of the business.
As is customary in the industry in the case of undeveloped properties, little investigation of record title is made at the time of acquisition (other than a preliminary review of local records). Investigations,
generally including a title opinion of outside counsel, are made prior to the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties.
Item 3.