Item 2. Properties
Turkey
The following disclosure regarding our properties in Turkey excludes the properties of TBNG, which we sold in February 2017.
General. As of December 31, 2016, we held interests in 11 onshore and offshore exploration licenses and 25 onshore production leases covering a total of approximately 507,000 gross acres (approximately 395,000 net acres) in Turkey. We acquired our interests in Turkey through acquisitions, as well as through farm-in agreements with existing third-party license holders and through applications submitted to the Turkish General Directorate for Petroleum Affairs (the “GDPA”), the agency responsible for the regulation of oil and natural gas activities under the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources in Turkey. The following map shows our interests in Turkey:
Reserves. As of December 31, 2016, we had total net proved reserves of 12,730 Mbbl of oil and 5,212 Mmcf of natural gas, net probable reserves of 11,519 Mbbl of oil and 3,300 Mmcf of natural gas and net possible reserves of 11,579 Mbbl of oil and 52,881 Mmcf of natural gas in Turkey.
Equipment Yards. As of December 31, 2016, we leased equipment yards in Muratli and Diyarbakir and owned equipment yards at Selmo and Edirne.
Commercial Terms. Turkey’s fiscal regime for oil and natural gas licenses is presently comprised of royalties and income tax. The royalty rate is 12.5% and the corporate income tax rate is 20%. There is a 5% net profits interest burden for certain of our non-core wells in the Thrace region of Turkey. Dividends repatriated from Turkey would be subject to a withholding tax rate of 15% unless reduced by a tax treaty. There is also an 18% value added tax. However, for exploration licenses, no value added tax is assessed on drilling, completion, workover, seismic and geologic activities.
Licensing Regime. The licensing process in Turkey for oil and natural gas concessions occurs in three stages: permit, license and lease. Under a permit, the government grants the non-exclusive right to conduct a geological investigation over an area. The size of the area and the term of the permit are subject to the discretion of the GDPA. A new petroleum law was passed by the Turkish government in May 2013, amending some of the processes related to licensing and operations in Turkey. The regulations concerning implementation were passed by the Turkish government in January 2014. The existing licenses and future licensing processes are currently in a transition phase from the old petroleum law to the new petroleum law. The new law provides that operators have the option to maintain their licenses under the old petroleum law for the duration of the existing terms of a license or to convert their licenses to the new petroleum law prior to the expiration of the license.
The GDPA awards a license after it approves the applicant’s work program, which may include obligations such as geological and geophysical work, seismic reprocessing and interpretation and contingent shooting of seismic and drilling of wells. A license grants exclusive rights over an area for the exploration for and production of petroleum.
Licensing Under the Old Petroleum Law. A license has a term of four years and requires drilling activities by the third year, but this obligation may be deferred into the fourth year by posting a bond. A license is eligible for two separate two-year extensions by fulfilling prior work commitments and subscribing to additional work commitments. A final three-year term may be granted as an appraisal period for any oil or natural gas discovery registered in the previous terms. No single company may own more than an aggregate of 100% of eight licenses within a district. Rentals are due annually based on the size of the license.
Once a discovery is made, the license holder may apply to convert the area, not to exceed 25,000 hectares (approximately 62,000 acres), to a lease. Under a lease, the lessee may produce oil and natural gas. The term of a lease is for 20 years and may be extended for two further terms of 10 years each. Annual rentals are due based on the size of the lease. The production lease holder is typically able to apply for a new exploration license covering the area of the original exploration license, minus the area of the newly-granted production lease.
Licensing Under the New Petroleum Law. A license has a term of five years and requires the license holder to post a bond equal to 2% of the cost of the work commitments to secure the fulfillment of the work commitments. Licenses shall be based on map sections of scale equal to 1/50,000 (approximately 148,000 acres) or 1/25,000 (approximately 37,000 acres). A license is eligible for two separate two-year extensions by fulfilling prior work commitments and subscribing to additional work commitments, including the drilling of at least one well in each separate extension period, and providing a bond to secure fulfillment of the additional work commitments. A final two-year term may be granted to appraise a petroleum discovery made during the prior terms. An additional six-month extension may be granted during any of the foregoing terms in order to complete the drilling or testing of a well.
Once a discovery is made, the license holder may apply to convert part of the license area, covering the prospective petroleum field, to a production lease. Under a lease, the lessee may produce oil and natural gas. The term of a lease is for 20 years and may be extended for two further terms of 10 years each. The production lease holder is typically able to apply for a new exploration license covering the area of the original exploration license, minus the area of the newly-granted production lease.
The expiration dates reported on our exploration licenses and production leases below are subject to various extensions available under the old petroleum law and the new petroleum law. Those portions of exploration licenses with production are available during any term for conversion to a production lease with a term of 20 years plus two further 10 year extensions if production is maintained. We have converted some of our qualifying acreage into the new petroleum law regulations. Conversion into the new petroleum law provides for the renewal of the exploration license terms for qualifying acreage.
Southeastern Turkey. The following map shows our interests in Southeastern Turkey at December 31, 2016:
Arpatepe (Production Lease 5003). We own a 50% working interest in Production Lease 5003, which covers approximately 11,200 gross acres. For 2016, our wellhead production of oil from the Arpatepe field was 54,036 Bbls of oil, at an average rate of approximately 148 Bbl/d. We are the operator of Production Lease 5003, which expires in November 2028, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws. We expect to workover several wells and commence water injection to increase production in 2017.
Bakuk (Production Lease 5043). We own a 50% working interest in Production Lease 5043. The production lease covers approximately 34,400 gross acres. Tiway Turkey, Ltd. (“Tiway”) is the operator of Production Lease 5043, which expires in January 2032, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws.
Bati Yasince Production Lease (Lease M45A1-1). We own a 100% working interest in the Bati Yasince Production Lease, which covers approximately 7,200 gross acres. We are the operator of the lease, which expires in 2019 with extensions available under the new petroleum laws. We expect to reenter and drill a horizontal lateral during 2017.
Göksu Production Lease (Lease M45-a4-1). We own a 100% working interest in the the Göksu Production Lease, which covers approximately 14,500 gross acres. For 2016, our wellhead production of oil from the Göksu Production Lease was approximately 36,043 Bbls of oil, at an average rate of approximately 98 Bbls/d. We are the operator of the production lease, which expires in December 2020, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws. We expect to reenter a producing well and redrill a horizontal lateral during 2017. We may drill an additional well or wells in 2017.
New Molla License 4845. We own a 100% working interest in the Bahar appraisal wells in this license, which covers approximately 32,700 gross acres. For 2016, our wellhead production of oil from the Bahar appraisal wells was approximately 548,004 Bbls of oil, at an average rate of approximately 1,498 Bbl/d. We are the operator of Exploration License 4845, which expires in March 2019, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws. On December 1, 2016, we filed a petition with the GDPA for the addition of approximately 27,600 gross acres to Exploration License 4845, which was awarded on January 31, 2017. We expect to drill several wells in the Bahar field, an exploration well on the Cavuslu Prospect, and acquire 3D seismic on our expanded license, and reprocess additional 3D seismic from our inventory.
West Molla License 5046. We own a 100% working interest in Exploration License 5046, which covers approximately 61,600 gross acres. We are the operator of Exploration License 5046, which expires in June 2018, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws. We will redrill the Pinar well from approximately 7,400 feet through Bedinan shows encountered in the original wellbore that was not cased and tested due to wellbore conditions. We may drill an additional well or wells in 2017.
Selmo (Production Lease 829). We own a 100% working interest in Production Lease 829, which covers 8,900 acres and includes the Selmo oil field. For 2016, our wellhead production of oil in the Selmo field was approximately 735,562 Bbls of oil, at an average rate of approximately 2,010 Bbl/d. We are the operator of Production Lease 829, which expires in June 2025. We expect to recomplete, deepen and drill one or more wells in 2017.
Northwestern Turkey. The following map shows our interests in northwestern Turkey at December 31, 2016:
Adatepe (Production Lease 4959). We own a 50% working interest in Production Lease 4959, which covers approximately 3,086 gross acres. We are the operator of Production Lease 4959 which expires in September 2031, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws.
Alpullu (Production Lease 4794) and Temrez (LicensesB3,A3,A4, andB4). We own a 100% working interest in the Alpullu Production Lease and the Temrez Licenses, which cover approximately 3,158 acres and 134,296 acres, respectively. We are the operator of the Alpullu Production Lease and the Temrez Licenses, which expire in September 2028 and July 2020, respectively, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws.
Banarli (Production Lease 5059). We own a 50% working interest in Production Lease 5059, which covers approximately 4,608 gross acres. We plan to maintain production to satisfy our obligation on Production Lease 5059. We are the operator of Production Lease 5059, which expires in February 2032, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws.
Dogu Adatepe (Production Lease-b4-1). We own a 50% working interest in the Dogu Adatepe Production Lease, which covers part of our former Cayirdere license. The lease covers approximately 4,000 gross acres and expires in October 2017, with an additional 28 years of extensions under the new petroleum laws available with the maintenance of production on the production lease. We are currently evaluating extension options for Production Lease-b4-1.
Edirne Production Leases and Habiller Production Lease. We own a 55% working interest in three Edirne Production Leases and a 100% working interest in the Habiller Production Lease, which cover an aggregate of approximately 65,000 gross acres. We are the operator of the Edirne Production Leases and the Habiller Production Lease which expire in 2034 and March 2020, respectively, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws.
Gocerler (Production Lease 4200 and License 4288). We own a 50% working interest in Production Lease 4200 and License 4288, which cover approximately 3,363 gross acres and 119,000 gross acres, respectively. We are the operator of Production Lease 4200 and License 4288, which expire in May 2023 and August 2017, respectively, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws.
Bulgaria
General. As of December 31, 2016, we held interests in one production concession and one exploration permit in Bulgaria. In January 2012, the Bulgarian Parliament enacted legislation that banned the fracture stimulation of oil and natural gas wells in the Republic of Bulgaria. The legislation also had the effect of preventing conventional drilling and completion activities. In June 2012, the Bulgarian Parliament amended the legislation to clarify that conventional drilling and completion activities were not intended to be affected by the law. As long as this legislation remains in effect, our unconventional natural gas exploration, development and production activities in Bulgaria will be significantly constrained. The following map shows our interests in Bulgaria at December 31, 2016:
Reserves. As of December 31, 2016, there were no reserves associated with our properties in Bulgaria.
Commercial Terms. Bulgaria’s petroleum laws provide a framework for investment and operation that allows foreign investors to retain the proceeds from the sale of petroleum production. The fiscal regime is comprised of royalties and income tax.
The royalty ranges from 2.5% to 30%, based on an “R factor” which is particular to each production concession agreement, but is typically calculated by dividing the total cumulative revenues from a production concession by the total cumulative costs incurred for that production concession.
The production concession holder pays Bulgarian corporate income tax, which is assessed at a rate of 10%. All costs incurred in connection with exploration, development and production operations are deductible for corporate income tax purposes.
Resident companies which remit dividends outside of Bulgaria are subject to a dividend withholding tax between 10% and 15%, depending on the proportion of the capital owned by the recipient. No customs duty is payable on the export of petroleum, however a customs duty may be payable on the import of material necessary to conduct petroleum operations in certain conditions. There is also a 20% value added tax. Oil is priced at market while natural gas is tied to a bundle pricing based in part on the import price and in part on the domestic price.
Licensing Regime. The licensing process in Bulgaria for oil and natural gas concessions occurs in two stages: exploration permit and then production concession.
Under an exploration permit, the government grants exploration rights for a term of up to five years to conduct seismic and other exploratory activities, including drilling. The recipient of an exploration permit commits to a work program and posts a bank guarantee in the amount of the estimated cost for the program. The area covered by an onshore exploration permit may be as large as 5,000 square kilometers. The exploration permit may be extended for up to two additional two-year terms, subject to fulfillment of minimum work programs, and may be extended for an additional one-year term in order to appraise potential geologic discoveries. Interests under an exploration permit are transferable, subject to government approval. The permit holder is required to pay an annual area fee equal to 40 Bulgarian Lev (approximately $22 at December 31, 2016) per square kilometer, or 40 Bulgarian Lev (approximately $22 at December 31, 2016) per square kilometer in the event the permit term is extended.
Upon the registration of a commercial discovery, an exploration permit holder may apply for a production concession. The production concession size corresponds to the area of the commercial discovery. The duration of a production concession is 35 years and may be extended by a further 15 years subject to the terms and conditions of the production concession agreement. Interests under a production concession are transferable, subject to government approval. No bonus is paid to the government by the company upon conversion to a production concession.
Koynare. We own a 100% working interest, subject to a 3.02% overriding royalty interest, in the Koynare production concession covering approximately 163,000 acres. The Koynare Concession Area contains the Deventci-R1 well, where we discovered a reservoir in the Jurassic-aged Ozirovo formation at a depth of approximately 13,800 feet, which the Bulgarian government has certified as a geologic and commercial discovery. In 2017, we expect to redrill the Deventci-R1 well from approximately 10,000 feet to attempt to encounter oil and gas production upthrown from the original wellbore as interpreted from 3D seismic acquired by the Company after the Deventci-R1 well was drilled. For purposes of our royalty conversion under the “R” factor, we have a cost recovery pool of approximately $40.0 million at December 31, 2016.
Aglen. We have applied to retain the Aglen exploration permit, which covers approximately 1,700 acres within the boundaries of the former A-Lovech exploration permit and lies within the boundary of the Stefenetz Concession Area. If confirmed, we would reenter one or more existing wells to reestablish gas production.
Albania
General. As of December 31, 2016, we owned a 25% interest in one onshore gas field through a joint venture. The following map shows our interests in Albania at December 31, 2016:
Reserves. As of December 31, 2016, we had total net proved reserves of 52 Mbbl of oil and 1,411 Mmcf of natural gas, net probable reserves of 182 Mbbl of oil and 3,634 Mmcf of natural gas and net possible reserves of 299 Mbbl of oil and 6,090 Mmcf of natural gas in Albania.
Commercial Terms. The Delvina gas field is subject to a License Agreement between Agjencia Kombëtare e Burimeve Natyrore, the Albanian National Agency of Natural Resources (“AKBN”), and Albpetrol, the state owned oil company in Albania, and a Petroleum Agreement with Albpetrol, which together give the owner the right to access and develop the onshore gas field. The License Agreement has a 25-year term, with unlimited five-year renewal options.
The operator is required to submit annual work programs and budgets to Albpetrol each year, including the nature and amount of capital expenditures, which is required to be consistent with the approved plan of development (“PODs”) for the Delvina gas field. Significant deviations from the PODs are subject to the approval of AKBN and Albpetrol.
Pursuant to the terms of the Petroleum Agreement, the operator pays a 2% to 7.2% gross overriding royalty to Albpetrol, which may be paid in kind or cash. In addition, the operator is required to pay a royalty to Albpetrol based on the amount of pre-existing production (“PEP”) from the wells taken over from Albpetrol. The PEP royalty is calculated on a well by well basis and is initially equal to 65% to 70% of the PEP preceding the takeover of the well from Albpetrol. The PEP royalty declines at a rate of 5% per year.
In 2008, a new 10% mineral tax was enacted by the Albanian Ministry of Finance. The new mineral tax is equal to 10% of gross sales after deducting any PEP royalties paid. Under the Petroleum Agreement, any new financial burdens (including new mineral taxes) are to be neutralized by amendments to the Petroleum Agreement.
Delvina Field. The Delvina natural gas field was discovered in 1987 and produces natural gas and natural gas liquids from fractured carbonates of Cretaceous-Paleocene age at a depth of 2,800 to 3,500 meters. The Delvina natural gas field is connected to potential markets by an existing pipeline. Additional downstream capacity will be required to fully develop the field. We plan to workover the previously producing Delvina D4 and D12 vertical wells and return them to production in 2017.
Delvina Joint Venture Transaction. On September 1, 2016, we completed a joint venture transaction with respect to the assets in the Delvina gas field in Albania (the “Delvina Assets”). We transferred (the “Transfer”) 75% of the outstanding shares of Delvina Gas Company Ltd. (“DelvinaCo”), which owns the Delvina Assets, to Ionian Gas Company Ltd. (“Ionian”).
After the Transfer, we retained a 25% equity interest in DelvinaCo and have agreed to pay 25% of the operating costs of DelvinaCo, subject to a three-year deferral of capital expenditures. For the next three years, Ionian will be responsible for all agreed upon capital expenditures with respect to the Delvina Assets. At the end of the three-year period, the Company will be required to either reimburse Ionian for its 25% share of such capital expenditures or face dilution in its ownership of DelvinaCo.
Summary of Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
The following table summarizes our net proved, probable and possible reserves at December 31, 2016. In the following table, we have separately reported our net proved, probable and possible reserves for TBNG (which were not evaluated by DeGolyer and MacNaughton), which we sold in February 2017 and which was held for sale at December 31, 2016.
Value of Proved Reserves
The following table shows our estimated future net revenue, Standardized Measure and PV-10 as of December 31, 2016:
(1)
Represents our TBNG assets that were sold in February 2017. As of December 31, 2016, our TBNG assets and liabilities were classified as held for sale on our consolidated balance sheets.
(2)
DeGolyer and MacNaughton did not estimate the Standardized Measure.
(3)
The PV-10 value of the estimated future net revenue is not intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves we own. Management believes that the presentation of PV-10, while not a financial measure in accordance with U.S. GAAP, provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and natural gas companies. Because many factors that are unique to each individual company impact the amount of future income taxes estimated to be paid, the use of a pre-tax measure is valuable when comparing companies based on reserves. PV-10 is not a measure of financial or operating performance under U.S. GAAP. PV-10 should not be considered as an alternative to the Standardized Measure as defined under U.S. GAAP. The Standardized Measure represents the PV-10 after giving effect to income taxes. The following table provides a reconciliation of our PV-10 to our Standardized Measure:
(1)
Represents our TBNG assets that were sold in February 2017. As of December 31, 2016, our TBNG assets and liabilities were classified as held for sale on our consolidated balance sheets.
(2)
DeGolyer and MacNaughton did not estimate future income taxes, the discount of future income taxes at 10% per annum or the Standardized Measure.
Proved Reserves
Estimates of proved developed and undeveloped reserves are inherently imprecise and are continually subject to revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors. See “-Oil and Natural Gas Reserves under U.S. Law.”
At December 31, 2016, our estimated proved reserves, excluding TBNG, were 13,886 Mboe, a decrease of 2,930 Mboe, or 17.4%, compared to 16,816 Mboe at December 31, 2015. This decrease was primarily attributable to the sale of all our Albanian oil fields and 75% of our Albanian natural gas field and a 19% decline in the SEC oil price in 2016. Additionally, proved reserves decreased due to sales volumes of 1,449 Mboe, consisting of 1,374 Mbbls of oil and 449 Mmcf of natural gas. This was partially offset by an increase in proved reserves in the Bahar and Selmo oil fields of 3,519 Mbbls of oil due primarily to production outperforming previous estimates. The estimated undiscounted capital costs associated with our proved reserves in Turkey is $166.3 million.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
At December 31, 2016, our estimated proved undeveloped reserves were 8,486 Mboe, an increase of 2,094 Mboe, or 32.8%, compared to 6,392 Mboe at December 31, 2015. The increase in proved undeveloped reserves was primarily due to a combination of additional planned wells for the Bahar oil field and type curve revisions attributable to improved production performance in the Selmo and Bahar oil fields. All of our proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2016 will be developed within five years of the date the reserve was first disclosed as a proved undeveloped reserve. The estimated undiscounted capital costs associated with our proved undeveloped reserves in Turkey is $165.0 million, of which $23.7 million is expected to be incurred in 2017.
The proved undeveloped reserves assume development costs will be funded from future cash flows from operations and financing activities, which may not be sufficient or available at commercially economic terms and could impact the timing of these development activities.
Probable Reserves
Estimates of probable reserves are inherently imprecise. When producing an estimate of the amount of oil and natural gas that is recoverable from a particular reservoir, an estimated quantity of probable reserves is an estimate of those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered. Estimates of probable reserves are also continually subject to revisions based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors. See “-Oil and Natural Gas Reserves under U.S. Law.”
When deterministic methods are used, it is as likely as not that actual remaining quantities recovered will exceed the sum of estimated proved plus probable reserves. When probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 50% probability that the actual quantities recovered will equal or exceed the proved plus probable reserves estimates. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas of a reservoir adjacent to proved reserves where data control or interpretations of available data are less certain, even if the interpreted reservoir continuity of structure or productivity does not meet the reasonable certainty criterion. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir. Probable reserves estimates also include potential incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than assumed for proved reserves.
Possible Reserves
Estimates of possible reserves are also inherently imprecise. When producing an estimate of the amount of oil and natural gas that is recoverable from a particular reservoir, an estimated quantity of possible reserves is an estimate that might be achieved, but only under more favorable circumstances than are likely. Estimates of possible reserves are also continually subject to revisions based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors. See “-Oil and Natural Gas Reserves under U.S. Law.”
When deterministic methods are used, the total quantities ultimately recovered from a project have a low probability of exceeding proved plus probable plus possible reserves. When probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 10% probability that the total quantities ultimately recovered will equal or exceed the proved plus probable plus possible reserves estimates. Possible reserves may be assigned to areas of a reservoir adjacent to probable reserves where data control and interpretations of available data are progressively less certain. Frequently, this will be in areas where geoscience and engineering data are unable to define clearly the area and vertical limits of commercial production from the reservoir by a defined project. Possible reserves also include incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than the recovery quantities assumed for probable reserves.
Possible reserves may be assigned where geoscience and engineering data identify directly adjacent portions of a reservoir within the same accumulation that may be separated from proved areas by faults with displacement less than formation thickness or other geological discontinuities and that have not been penetrated by a wellbore, and the registrant believes that such adjacent portions are in communication with the known (proved) reservoir. Possible reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher or lower than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir.
Internal Controls
Management has established, and is responsible for, a number of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that the estimates of proved, probable and possible reserves are computed and reported in accordance with rules and regulations provided by the SEC as well as established industry practices used by independent engineering firms and our peers. These internal controls consist of documented process workflows and qualified professional engineering and geological personnel with specific reservoir experience. We also retained an outside independent engineering firm to prepare estimates of our proved, probable and possible reserves for Turkey, excluding TBNG, Bulgaria and Albania. We work closely with this firm, and management is responsible for providing accurate operating and technical data to it. Management has tested the processes and controls regarding our reserves estimates for 2016. Senior management reviews and approves our reserves estimates, whether prepared internally or by third parties. In addition, our audit committee serves as our reserves committee and is composed of three outside directors, all of whom have experience in the review of energy company reserves evaluations. The audit committee reviews the final reserves estimate and also meets with representatives from the outside engineering firm to discuss their process and findings.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves under U.S. Law
In the United States, we are required to disclose proved reserves, and we are permitted to disclose probable and possible reserves, using the standards contained in Rule 4-10(a) of the SEC’s Regulation S-X. The estimates of proved, probable and possible reserves presented as of December 31, 2016 for Turkey (excluding TBNG), Bulgaria and Albania, have been prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton, our external engineers. The technical person at DeGolyer and MacNaughton that is primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserves estimates is a Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Texas and has a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from Kansas State University. He has over 34 years of experience in oil and natural gas reservoir studies and evaluations and is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who work closely with DeGolyer and MacNaughton to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data furnished to them for the preparation of their reserves estimates. Our vice president of engineering has over 10 years of experience in oil and natural gas reservoir studies and evaluations. He has a BASC. (Engineering) from the University of British Columbia, and is a registered Professional Engineer (Alberta).
Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are projections based on a process involving an independent third-party engineering firm’s collection of all required geologic, geophysical, engineering and economic data, and such firm’s complete external preparation of all required estimates and are forward-looking in nature. These reports rely upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC, such as constant oil and natural gas prices, operating expenses and future capital costs. We also make assumptions relating to availability of funds and timing of capital expenditures for development of our proved undeveloped, probable and possible reserves. These reports should not be construed as the current market value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is also dependent on geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Because of the uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of this data, we cannot ensure that the reserves will ultimately be realized. Our actual results could differ materially. See “Supplemental Information -Supplemental oil and natural gas reserves information (unaudited)” to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our oil and natural gas reserves.
The technologies and economic data used in the estimation of our proved, probable and possible reserves include, but are not limited to, electrical logs, radioactivity logs, core analyses, geologic maps and available downhole and production data, seismic data and well test data. Reserves attributable to producing wells with sufficient production history were estimated using appropriate decline curves or other performance relationships. Reserves attributable to producing wells with limited production history were estimated using performance from analogous wells in the surrounding area and geologic data to assess the reservoir continuity. These wells were considered to be analogous based on production performance from the same formation and completion using similar techniques.
The estimates of proved, probable and possible reserves prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton for the year ended December 31, 2016 included a detailed evaluation of our Selmo, Arpatepe, Bakuk, Molla and certain Thrace Basin properties in Turkey, our Delvina field in Albania and our West Koynare field in Bulgaria. DeGolyer and MacNaughton determined that their estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of “reasonable certainty,” as it pertains to expectations about whether proved reserves are economically producible from a given date forward, under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations, consistent with the definition in Rule 4-10(a)(24) of SEC Regulation S-X.
TBNG Reserves
Our December 31, 2016 TBNG reserves were based on estimates made by our internal staff of petroleum and geoscience professionals.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves under Canadian Law
As a reporting issuer under Alberta, British Columbia and Ontario securities laws, we are required under Canadian law to comply with National Instrument 51-101 “Standards of Disclosure for Oil and Gas Activities” (“NI 51-101”) implemented by the members of the Canadian Securities Administrators in all of our reserves related disclosures. DeGolyer and MacNaughton evaluated the Company’s reserves as of December 31, 2016 for Turkey (excluding TBNG), Bulgaria and Albania in accordance with the reserves definitions of NI 51-101 and the Canadian Oil and Gas Evaluators Handbook (“COGEH”). Our annual oil and natural gas reserves disclosures prepared in accordance with NI 51-101 and COGEH and filed in Canada are available at www.sedar.com.
Oil and Natural Gas Sales Volumes
The following table sets forth our sales volumes of oil and natural gas (including by field for any field that contained 15% or more of our total proved reserves) for 2016, 2015 and 2014:
(1)
“Oil” volumes include condensate (light oil) and medium crude oil.
Average Sales Price and Production Costs
The following table sets forth the average sales price per Bbl of oil and Mcf of natural gas and the average production cost, not including ad valorem and severance taxes, per unit of production for each of 2016, 2015 and 2014:
Drilling Activity
The following table sets forth the number of net productive and dry exploratory wells and net productive and dry development wells we drilled in 2016, 2015 and 2014:
Oil and Natural Gas Properties, Wells, Operations and Acreage
Productive Wells. The following table sets forth the number of productive wells (wells that were producing oil or natural gas or were capable of production) in which we held a working interest as of December 31, 2016:
(1)
“Gross wells” means the wells in which we held a working interest (operating or non-operating).
(2)
“Net wells” means the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross wells.
Developed Acreage. The following table sets forth our total gross and net developed acreage as of December 31, 2016:
(1)
“Gross” means the total number of acres in which we had a working interest.
(2)
“Net” means the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres.
Undeveloped Acreage. The following table sets forth our undeveloped land position as of December 31, 2016:
(1)
“Gross” means the total number of acres in which we had a working interest.
(2)
“Net” means the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres.
Undeveloped Acreage Expirations. The following table summarizes by year our undeveloped acreage (excluding TBNG) as of December 31, 2016 that is scheduled to expire in the next five years:
(1)
“Gross” means the total number of acres in which we had a working interest.
(2)
“Net” means the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres.
We anticipate that we will be able to extend the license terms for substantially all of our undeveloped acreage in Turkey scheduled to expire in 2017 through the execution of our current work commitments.
Item 3.