Item 2. Properties.
Turkey
General. In June 2006, we were awarded three onshore exploration licenses in southeastern Turkey. The three licenses together cover a total of 660 square kilometers (162,762 acres) and expire in May 2010. These licenses were awarded to us based on our commitment to perform certain work programs for each of the respective areas. We are currently the operator of one of the licenses, Block 4175. Following a commercial discovery, each exploration license can be converted to a production lease which bears a 12.5% royalty. Additional commitments to shoot seismic or drill wells will be contingent on the results from the initial work programs.
Two of the licenses, Block 4173 and Block 4174, are located near Bismil on the Tigris River. Our primary target is an under explored Palaeozoic play at a depth of approximately 9,800 feet. The work program involves conducting geochemical studies and reprocessing existing 2D seismic data, and based on these results additional 2D seismic may be shot or a well drilled. In March 2008, we farmed out 75% of our working interest in Blocks 4173 and 4174 to an oil and gas exploration company with operations in Turkey. In exchange for a 75% interest in the exploration licenses, the Turkish company agreed to drill an exploration well at its cost before the end of 2008 to test the Bedinan Ordivician formation (approximately 3,700 meters) on one of the licenses. We will retain a 25% interest and will be carried through the costs of testing the well. That well has now been drilled. Shortly after encountering the target formation, the well encountered mechanical difficulties and was abandoned. In addition, the Turkish company paid $150,000 to us to pay for the reprocessing of 2D seismic over the licenses and completing our ongoing geochemical studies. The Turkish company also became the operator of Blocks 4173 and 4174.
The third license, Block 4175, is located near Cizre about 60 kilometers from the Iraq border. The target is a deep sub-thrust play similar to the major Iraqi and Iranian Zagros fields to the south. We plan to conduct an initial work program of detailed fieldwork and geochemical analysis. We agreed to a farmout of this license in October 2007, and in February 2008 the holder of the option on Block 4175 determined not to exercise the option. We plan to carry on with our planned geochemical sampling and analysis, and in the first quarter of 2009 we completed a 105 kilometers 2D seismic shoot over the license.
In July 2007, we were awarded three additional onshore exploration licenses, Blocks 4268, 4269 and 4270, all of which are in southeastern Turkey on the border with Iraq. The three new licenses cover a total of 1,354 square kilometers (334,618 acres) and expire in June 2011. Upon a commercial discovery, each exploration license would be converted to a 20-year production lease which bears a 12.5% royalty. These additional licenses will also involve a work program, including technical studies, reprocessing of data and contingent plans for drilling wells. We are the operator and 100% working interest owner of these licenses.
In September 2008, we agreed with Incremental to farm-in to Incremental’s License 4262, covering 12 square kilometers (3,052 acres) in southeastern Turkey. The agreement has been approved by the GDPA. In exchange for a 60% working interest, we agreed to drill one exploration well on the Atesler prospect located on License 4262 to a depth of approximately 3,200 meters (10,500 feet). We built roads and a wellsite and
began the drilling of the Atesler well in the fourth quarter of 2008 with a contracted drilling rig. We moved one of our rigs to the location to drill the remainder of the well and expect to complete the well in the second quarter of 2009. By drilling this well, we will also earn an undivided 75% working interest in four additional licenses owned by Incremental covering 1,863 square kilometers (460,321 acres) located south of License 4262. Our participation in these licenses was conditioned upon extension of their terms by the GDPA based upon the GDPA’s acceptance of a work program for the extension period. The GDPA approved our participation in the licenses and approved us becoming the operator of License 4262. Subject to the GDPA’s approval, we will become the operator of the other four licenses.
In December 2008, we entered into a lease agreement for an equipment yard near Dyarbakir, Turkey and shipped tubulars, drilling equipment and supplies in to Turkey in support of our planned drilling activities. We expect to spend approximately $3.0 million in 2009 and 2010 carrying out drilling and other exploration activities on our Turkish properties.
There are no reserves associated with our Turkish properties as of December 31, 2008.
Commercial Terms. Turkey’s fiscal regime for oil and gas licenses is presently comprised of royalties and income tax. Royalties are at 12.5% and the corporate income tax is at a rate of 20%. The licenses have a four-year term but after the third year, a payment in the form of a bond must be made to extend the license if no new well has been drilled prior to that date. The award of our licenses in Turkey was based upon a work program that involves geological and geophysical work, seismic reprocessing and interpretation and contingent shooting of seismic and drilling of wells.
Licensing Regime. The licensing process in Turkey for oil and gas concessions occurs in three stages: permit, license and lease. Under a permit, the government grants the non-exclusive right to conduct a geological investigation over an area. The size of the area and the term of the permit are subject to the discretion of the GDPA, the agency responsible for the regulation of oil and gas activities under the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources in Turkey.
A license grants exclusive rights over an area for the exploration for petroleum. A license has a term of four years and requires drilling activities in the third year, but this obligation may be deferred into the fourth year by posting a bond. No single company may own more than eight licenses within a district. Rentals are due annually based on the hectares under the license.
Once a discovery is made, the license holder applies to covert the area, not to exceed 25,000 hectares, to a lease. Under a lease, the lessee may produce oil and gas. The term of a lease is for 20 years. Annual rentals are due based on the hectares comprising the lease.
Morocco
General. In June 2005, we were awarded the Guercif - Beni Znassen reconnaissance license covering 13,750 square kilometers (3.4 million acres) in northeastern Morocco. Effective January 2, 2008, we converted a portion of our Guercif - Beni Znassen reconnaissance license into two exploration permits covering a total of 3,893 square kilometers (962,000 acres) in the Guercif area in northeastern Morocco, pursuant to a petroleum agreement with the national oil company of Morocco, Office of National des Hydrocarbures et des Mines (“ONHYM”). The Guercif exploration permits are for an eight-year term divided into three periods, each with a defined work program. Under the initial three-year work program, we have re-entered, logged and tested the MSD-1 well, a well previously drilled in the area, which we completed in the fourth quarter of 2008. The results from the operation were unsuccessful, and we are in the process of plugging and abandoning the well. We were required to acquire 300 kilometers of 2D seismic and reprocess and reinterpret an aerogravity and magnetic survey in 2009. We have applied to ONHYM to change the seismic obligation to a drilling obligation.
Pursuant to a participation agreement between us (30%), Stratic Energy Corporation (“Stratic”) (20%) and Sphere Petroleum QSC (“Sphere”) (50%), Sphere agreed to bear the entire cost of the initial three-year work program to earn its 50% interest in the two Guercif exploration permits. In addition, Sphere posted the required bank guarantee for the initial work program with the Moroccan government and agreed to reimburse us and Stratic for our respective back costs. In April 2008, Sphere assigned all of its interests in the Guercif participation agreement to Longe in exchange for Longe’s assumption of all of Sphere’s obligations under those agreements. We acquired Longe in December 2008. As a result, we are the operator and 80% working owner of the Guercif exploration permits.
In May 2006, we were awarded the Tselfat exploration permit pursuant to a petroleum agreement with ONHYM covering 900 square kilometers (222,345 acres) in northern Morocco. Tselfat has three fields, Haricha, Brou Draa and Tselfat, that produced from the early 1920s to 1970s, with limited production continuing into the 1990s. All of the wells are presently abandoned. The Tselfat permit provides several opportunities including redevelopment of the existing fields, extensions of known productive horizons and exploration of higher impact targets at depth. Since the award of the Tselfat exploration permit, we have been collecting, collating, digitizing and reviewing all of the existing well, production, seismic and other data. We have reprocessed some of the 2D seismic that exists over the block. In addition, we shot a 175 square kilometer 3D seismic survey over the Brou Draa and Haricha fields, which was completed in the second quarter of 2008. We plan on drilling an exploratory well to evaluate untested Jurassic formations in a sub-thrust structure on the Tselfat permit in 2009. As to the existing fields, we have initiated an engineering study over the Haricha field to determine the original resources in place, estimate historical production and determine recoverable resources that remain. We plan to drill several wells in the Haricha field in the second half of 2009.
In August 2007, we reached an agreement to farmout 50% of our interest in the Tselfat exploration permit to Sphere. In exchange for an option to acquire 50% of our interest in the Tselfat permit, Sphere agreed to fund the costs to acquire a 3D seismic survey over the Haricha field and northern portion of the Bou Draa field and fund the cost of additional geological studies. Upon the exercise of its option, Sphere agreed to fund the drilling and testing of an exploratory well and replace our bank guarantee deposited with the Moroccan government. In April 2008, Sphere assigned all of its interests in the Tselfat farmout and option agreement to Longe in exchange for Longe’s assumption of all of Sphere’s obligations under those agreements. We acquired Longe in December 2008. As a result, we have a 100% working interest and operate the Tselfat permit.
In July 2008, we agreed to farm-in to the Ouezzane-Tissa and Asilah exploration permits held by Direct in northern Morocco. The Direct exploration permits cover seven blocks with a combined area of 12,287 square kilometers (3,036,068 acres). Under the farm-in agreement, we will earn a 50% interest in the Ouezzane-Tissa and Asilah exploration permits by carrying Direct for 100% of the costs of drilling three wells on the Ouezzane-Tissa and Asilah permits. If one of the three wells is a commercial success, as defined in the farm-in agreement, then we would carry Direct in the drilling of a fourth well. Longfellow has posted a $25.0 million guaranty of our obligations under the farm-in agreement with Direct. We became the operator of the Ouezzane-Tissa and Asilah exploration permits after receiving government approval. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we built a wellsite for our planned first well on the Ouezzane-Tissa exploration permit and began a 2D seismic shoot over a portion of the Asilah exploration permit.
During 2008 we leased an equipment yard and shipped one drilling rig, tubulars and supplies into Morocco in support of our planned drilling activities. We shipped a second drilling rig to Morocco in the first quarter of 2009. We expect to spend approximately $13.2 million in 2009 and 2010 carrying out drilling and other exploration activities on our Moroccan properties.
There are no reserves associated with our Moroccan properties as of December 31, 2008.
Commercial Terms. Pursuant to a Petroleum Agreement (and the companion Association Contract) dated May 18, 2006 with ONHYM for the Tselfat exploration permit, we committed to a work program during the initial three-year period that involved shooting a 3D seismic survey over an area of at least 50 square kilometers, which we completed in the fourth quarter of 2008. The work program also requires us to drill a well to a depth exceeding 2,000 meters. We posted a $3.0 million bank guarantee in support of the program, of which $2.0 million has been returned to us.
Pursuant to a Petroleum Agreement (and the companion Association Contract) dated November 2, 2007 with ONHYM for the Guercif exploration permits, we committed to a work program during the initial three-year period that involved re-entering, logging and testing a well previously drilled in the area, which we have completed. The work program also requires us to acquire 300 kilometers of 2D seismic and reprocess and reinterpret an aerogravity and magnetic survey. We have applied to ONHYM to change the seismic obligation to a drilling obligation. Sphere posted a $2 million bank guarantee in support of the program, which was replaced by Longe in April 2008.
During the exploration phase of each exploration permit, we and our partners will operate and bear 100% of the costs to earn a 75% interest. Our interests are subject to the 25% interest held by ONHYM, which is carried by us and our partners during the exploration phase, all of which is governed by the applicable Petroleum Agreement. ONHYM pays its share of costs in the development phase. Once a discovery is made, the area covered by the discovery is converted into an exploitation concession, which is governed by the applicable Association Contract. Under an exploitation concession, we and our partners (75%) and ONHYM (25%) will each pay our respective share of costs. Upon conversion to an exploitation
concession, we will pay a discovery bonus to ONHYM, and when certain sustained daily production levels are reached, we will pay one-time production bonuses. At Tselfat, Ouezzane-Tissa and Asilah, the discovery bonus at conversion is $500,000 and the one-time production bonuses are as follows: 15,000 Bbls/d - $750,000; 25,000 Bbls/d - $1 million; 35,000 Bbls/d - $2 million and 50,000 Bbls/d - $3 million. At Guercif, the discovery bonus at conversion is $500,000 and the one-time production bonuses are as follows: 10,000 Bbls/d - $500,000; 20,000 Bbls/d - $750,000; 30,000 Bbls/d - $1 million and 50,000 Bbls/d - $3 million. These production bonuses are deductible and are treated as development costs for Moroccan tax purposes. There is a ten-year tax holiday on revenues from petroleum production commencing in the year in which production begins. After ten years, the corporate tax rate is 30%. Oil and gas exploration activities are exempt from both value added tax and customs duties.
The royalty paid to the Moroccan government for onshore production is 10% on oil and 5% on gas. In addition, the first approximately 2.1 Mmbbl of oil production and the first approximately 11 Bcf of gas production are exempt from royalty. Once an area is converted into an exploitation concession, we are required to pay annual surface rentals of $2.85 per acre.
Licensing Regime. The licensing process in Morocco for oil and gas concessions occurs in three stages: reconnaissance license, exploration permit and then exploitation concession.
Under a reconnaissance license, the government grants exploration rights for a one-year term to conduct seismic and other exploratory activities (but not drilling). The size may be very large and generally is unexplored or under-explored. The reconnaissance license may be extended for up to one additional year. Interests under a reconnaissance license are not transferable. The recipient of a reconnaissance license commits to a work program and posts a bank guarantee in the amount of the estimated cost for the program. At the end of the term of the reconnaissance license, the license holder must designate one or more areas for conversion to an exploration permit or relinquish all rights.
An exploration permit, which is codified in a petroleum agreement with ONHYM, is for a term of up to eight years and covers an area not to exceed 2,000 square kilometers. Under an exploration permit, exploration and appraisal studies and operations are undertaken in order to establish the existence of oil and gas in commercially exploitable quantities. This generally entails the drilling of exploration wells to establish the presence of oil and/or gas and such additional appraisal wells as may be necessary to determine the limits and the productive capacity of a hydrocarbon deposit to determine whether or not to go forward to develop and produce the prospect. The eight-year term under an exploration permit is divided into three separate terms of 2-3 years each. A distinct work program is negotiated for each separate term and the oil company then must post a bank guarantee to cover the cost of the work program for that term. The interests under an exploration permit are 75% to the oil company and 25% to ONHYM. Interests under an exploration permit are transferable. However, 100% of the costs of all activities under an exploration permit are borne by the oil company.
An exploitation concession is applied for upon the discovery of a commercially exploitable field. The concession size corresponds to the area of the commercial discovery. The maximum duration of an exploitation concession is 25 years. Once an exploitation concession becomes effective, then the costs incurred for the development of the field are to be funded by the parties in proportion to their respective percentage interests (75% oil company, 25% ONHYM). The oil company serves as operator. The oil company and ONHYM enter into an association contract (similar to a joint operating agreement) to govern operations on the concession. Interests under an exploitation concession are transferable. All production is sold at market prices. A bonus (the amount of which is negotiated at the time of negotiation of a petroleum agreement) is paid to the government by the oil company upon conversion to an exploitation concession, and additional production bonuses are also paid when certain production levels from the exploitation concession are achieved. The levels of production and the amount of production bonuses are negotiated as part of a petroleum agreement.
Romania
General. In February 2006, we were awarded three onshore production licenses in Romania. The Izvoru, Vanatori and Marsa licenses cover about 5 square kilometers, (1,200 acres) 4 square kilometers (780 acres) and 1 square kilometer (188 acres), respectively. The fields on the licenses were discovered by the former Romanian national oil company and are all located within 100 kilometers of Romania’s capital, Bucharest. The licenses were awarded to us based upon our commitment to perform certain work programs on each of the respective fields over the next three years, including shooting seismic and drilling or re-entering wells. There is no current production from any of the fields. We are the operator and 100% working interest owner of the fields. We entered into petroleum agreements with the Romanian government covering each license, which were finalized in September 2007 and expire in August 2010.
The initial work program will include the drilling of two new wells in the Izvoru field. We shot a 25 square kilometer 3D seismic survey over the Izvoru Field in late 2006. The seismic results were merged with engineering studies to provide a field development plan. We shot a 2D seismic survey over both Vanatori and Marsa fields in late 2006. The seismic results will be merged with engineering studies to provide a field development plan.
During 2008, we built locations for two wells that we plan to drill on the Izvoru license in 2009, and we plan on drilling one well on the Vanatori license in 2009.
In September 2008, we agreed to farm-in to Sterling’s Sud Craiova Block E III-7, covering 6,070 square kilometers (1.5 million acres) in western Romania. The agreement is subject to completion of formal documentation and approval by NAMR. In exchange for a 50% working interest, we agreed to drill three exploration wells on the Sud Craiova license, each to a depth of approximately 1,000 meters (3,280 feet).
During 2008, we leased an equipment yard and shipped tubulars and drilling equipment and supplies to our properties in Romania in support of our planned drilling activities. We expect to spend approximately $10.7 million in 2009 and 2010 carrying out drilling and other exploration activities on our Romanian properties.
There are no reserves associated with our Romanian properties as of December 31, 2008.
Commercial Terms. Romania’s current petroleum laws provide a framework for investment and operation that allows foreign investors to retain the proceeds from the sale of petroleum production. The fiscal regime is comprised of royalties, excise tax and income tax. Two forms of royalty are payable as:
•
A percentage of the value of gross production on a field basis, such percentage being fixed on a sliding scale depending on production levels. The production royalty rate varies between 3.5% to 13.5% for crude oil and between 3% to 13% for natural gas production; and
•
A fixed percentage of the gross income obtained from the transportation and transit of petroleum through the national pipeline system and from petroleum operations carried out through oil terminals belonging to the state. The royalty rate is currently fixed at 5%.
The license holder pays Romanian corporate income tax, but enjoys a one-year income tax holiday from the first day of production. Corporate income tax is assessed at a rate of 16%. All costs incurred in connection with exploration, development and production operations are deductible for corporate income tax purposes. Excise duty is payable on crude oil and natural gas at the rate of 4 Euro per ton of crude oil and 7.4 Euro per 1,000 cubic meters of natural gas. Excise tax is not payable on crude oil or natural gas delivered as royalty to the Romanian government, or on quantities directly exported. Resident companies which remit dividends outside of Romania are subject to a dividend withholding tax at between 10% to 15%, depending on the proportion of the capital owned by the recipient. No customs duty is payable on the export of petroleum, nor is customs duty payable on the import of material necessary for the conduct of petroleum operations. There is also a 19% value added tax. Oil is priced at market while gas is tied to a bundle pricing based in part on the import price and in part on the domestic price.
Licensing Regime. The Ministry of Industry and Resources of Romania has responsibility for petroleum policy and strategy. NAMR was set up in 1993 to administer and regulate petroleum operations. When licenses are to be made available, NAMR publishes a list of available blocks for concession in the Official Gazette. Foreign and Romanian companies must register their interest by a specified date and must submit applications by an application deadline. Applicants are required to prove their financial capacity, technical expertise and other requirements as required by NAMR. The licensing rounds are competitive and the winning bid is based on a scoring system.
NAMR negotiates the terms of agreements granting the licenses with the winning licensee and the license agreement is then submitted to the Romanian government for its approval. The date of government approval is the effective date of the license. Blocks which fail to attract a prescribed level of bids are re-offered in a subsequent licensing round. NAMR may issue a prospecting permit or a petroleum concession. A prospecting permit is for the conduct of geological mapping, magnetometry, gravimetry, seismology, geochemistry, remote sensing and drilling of wildcat wells in order to determine the general geological conditions favoring petroleum accumulations. A petroleum concession provides exclusive rights to conduct petroleum exploration and production under a petroleum agreement.
United States
In Oklahoma, we leased two properties, one in Dewey County (128 net acres) and one in McClain County (29 net acres). We participated for a 20% non-operated working interest in a well drilled on the Dewey County property at the end of 2006 that is currently producing a small amount of oil and natural gas. The McClain County property is currently the subject of a declaratory judgment action that we filed to declare that prior leases lapsed due to lack of production. We expect the case to be tried in the third quarter of 2009. The McClain County property and the outcome of the litigation are not material to us. We plan to resolve the title issues prior to developing or selling the McClain County property.
There are no reserves associated with either of these properties as of December 31, 2008.
Nigeria
We originally acquired an interest in the OML 109 offshore Nigerian concession in 1992. We drilled both the discovery well and the first appraisal well in the Ejulebe field on OML 109 in 1994 and 1995, respectively. In June 2005, we sold our Bahamian subsidiary which owned the interest in OML 109. As part of the transaction, we received cash payments of $780,000 and will receive deferred payments of up to a maximum of $16 million based on the success of the future exploration and development on the concession. We paid transaction costs of $220,000 (including legal, consulting and other deal-related costs) and, in addition, agreed to pay a bonus to our President for his efforts in completing this transaction equivalent to 3.75% of the deferred payments, if and when received, up to a maximum of $600,000. We do not expect to receive any deferred payments.
In addition, out of the $2.5 million reserved by us as an abandonment fund, $1.8 million was deposited into an escrow fund to address any liabilities and claims relating to our prior operations in Nigeria, and in 2007 approximately $720,000 was returned to us. As of December 31, 2008, the balance of the escrow fund was $240,000. The remaining potential liability to us is for taxes owed for the period January through June 2005, and we expect the remaining escrow amount to be sufficient to cover any potential tax liabilities.
Property and Equipment
The following table sets forth the capitalized costs under the full cost method for oil and gas properties, as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 (in thousands):
None of the oil and gas properties are revenue producing at this time and therefore no depletion has been recorded. Uncertainties affect the recoverability of these costs as the recovery of the costs outlined above are dependent upon the Company obtaining government approvals, obtaining and maintaining licenses in good standing and achieving commercial production or sale.
The historical cost of other property and equipment, presented on a gross basis with accumulated depreciation as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 is summarized as follows (in thousands):
Estimated Reserves of Crude Oil and Natural Gas
As a Canadian issuer, we are required under Canadian law to comply with National Instrument 51-101 “Standards of Disclosure for Oil and Gas Activities” (“NI 51-101”) implemented by the members of the Canadian Securities Administrators in all of our reserves related disclosures. Under NI 51-101, proved reserves are those reserves that can be estimated with a high degree of certainty to be recoverable. Reported proved reserves should target, under a specific set of economic conditions, at least a 90% probability that the quantities of oil and natural gas actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimated proved reserves.
In the United States, we are required to disclose proved reserves using the standards contained in Rule 4-10(a) of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission’s (“SEC”) Regulation S-X.
The crude oil and natural gas industry commonly applies a conversion factor to production and estimated proved reserve volumes of natural gas in order to determine an “all commodity equivalency” referred to as barrels of oil equivalent (“Boe”). The conversion factor we have applied in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is the current convention used by many oil and gas companies, where six thousand cubic feet (“Mcf”) of natural gas is equal to one barrel (“Bbl”) of oil. The Boe conversion ratio we use is based on an energy equivalency conversion method primarily applicable at the burner tip. It may not represent a value equivalency at the wellhead and may be misleading, particularly if used in isolation.
At December 31, 2008, we had no oil and gas reserves and no related future net revenue. We have a non-operated 20% working interest in one well on our Dewey County property in Oklahoma, and no reserves are attributed to that property or to any of our international properties. All of our oil and gas properties are onshore.
Productive Wells. The following table sets forth the number of productive wells in which we held a working interest as of December 31, 2008:
(1) “Gross Wells” are the wells in which we hold a working interest (operating or non-operating). “Net Wells” are the Gross Wells multiplied by our working interest percentage (operating or non-operating).
We hold 640 gross developed acres and 128 net developed acres in Dewey County, Oklahoma associated with our only productive well.
Production. The following table sets forth our net production of oil (in Bbls) and natural gas (in Mcf), after payment of royalties, as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:
(1) “Oil” volumes include condensate (light oil) and medium crude oil.
The following table sets forth certain information in respect of production, product prices received, royalties, production costs and netbacks received by us for each quarter of our most recently completed financial year:
Drilling Activity. The following table sets forth the number of wells we drilled for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:
Notes:
(1) We owned a 100% working interest in each of these wells. As a result, net wells and gross wells are the same.
Current Drilling Activity. As of March 31, 2009, we have commenced drilling one exploratory well (gross) and 0.6 exploratory well (net) on License 4262 in Turkey. The well is planned to reach a depth of 3,200 meters (10,000 feet).
Costs Incurred. The following table summarizes the capital expenditures made by us on oil and natural gas properties for the year ended December 31, 2008 (in thousands).
Undeveloped Acreage. The following table sets forth our undeveloped land position as of December 31, 2008:
Notes:
(1) “Gross” means the total number of acres in which we have a working interest.
(2) “Net” means the sum of the products obtained by multiplying the number of gross acres by our percentage working interest therein.
Abandonment and Reclamation Costs. We sold our interests in the Jarvis Dome property and South Gillock property (consisting of the South Gillock and State Kohfeldt Units) in Texas in October and November 2007, respectively, and the Bayou Couba property in Louisiana in December 2006. We have no further liability for abandonment or reclamation costs for those properties. We have reserved $14,000 for estimated abandonment and reclamation costs regarding our one producing well in Oklahoma, in which we own a 16% net revenue interest.
Recent Developments. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we announced our intention to make an all cash takeover offer through TransAtlantic Australia to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Incremental, an Australian oil and gas exploration and production company with oil and gas assets and operations in Turkey and the United States, including a significant base of crude oil production in Turkey. TransAtlantic Australia’s offer for the Incremental shares closed on March 6, 2009, at which time TransAtlantic Australia owned or had received acceptances for approximately 96% of the Incremental shares, and we expect to acquire all remaining outstanding shares in April 2009. The acquisition of Incremental will expand our rig fleet from four to seven rigs and increase our workforce of highly qualified field staff, engineers, and geologists in Turkey, one of our target countries. Incremental’s portfolio consists of the producing Selmo oil field, the Edirne gas field and additional exploration acreage in Turkey, and three prospects in the United States. As a result, following completion of the Incremental acquisition, we anticipate that we will have production from certain of these properties in 2009, as well as reserves. We have engaged an independent qualified reserves evaluator to carry out an evaluation with respect to certain of Incremental’s properties in accordance with both the standards set out in the Canadian Oil and Gas Evaluation Handbook and those contained in Rule 4-10(a) of SEC Regulation S-X. We entered into a credit agreement with Dalea for the purpose of funding the Incremental acquisition and related transaction costs. As of March 31, 2009, we borrowed $59.0 under the credit agreement. We expect to borrow an additional $4.0 million in order to complete the Incremental acquisition in April 2009 and to pay for related transaction costs. We have reached a tentative agreement with Dalea to amend the Dalea credit agreement to increase the loan facility by $14.0 million and to allow the use of funds for general corporate purposes. Such amendment is subject to regulatory approval.
Item 3.