Item 2. Properties
Turkey
General. As of December 31, 2019, we held interests in four onshore exploration licenses and 20 onshore production leases covering a total of 436,388 gross (365,171 net) acres in Turkey. We acquired our interests in Turkey through acquisitions, farm-in agreements with existing third-party license holders and applications submitted to the Turkish General Directorate of Mineral and Petroleum Affairs (the “GDMPA”), the agency responsible for the regulation of oil and natural gas activities under the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources in Turkey. The following map shows our interests in Turkey:
Reserves. As of December 31, 2019, we had total net proved reserves of 10,259 Mbbl of oil and 2,466 Mmcf of natural gas, net probable reserves of 7,212 Mbbl of oil and 845 Mmcf of natural gas and net possible reserves of 6,742 Mbbl of oil and 984 Mmcf of natural gas in Turkey.
Equipment Yards. As of December 31, 2019, we leased equipment yards in Muratli and Diyarbakir and owned an equipment yard at Gocerler. On February 24, 2020, we sold the shares in Petrogas, which held the Gocerler equipment yard. Additionally, in connection with the sale of Petrogas, Reform transferred an equipment yard in Tekirdağ to us. See “Item 1. Business-Recent Developments.”
Commercial Terms. Turkey’s fiscal regime for oil and natural gas licenses is presently comprised of royalties and income tax. The royalty rate is 12.5%. As of December 31, 2019, the corporate income tax rate was 22%. There is a 5% net profits interest burden for certain of our non-core wells in the Thrace region of Turkey. Dividends repatriated from Turkey would be subject to a withholding tax rate of 15% unless reduced by a tax treaty. There is also an 18% value added tax. However, for exploration licenses, no value added tax is assessed on drilling, completion, workover, seismic and geologic activities.
Licensing Regime. The licensing process in Turkey for oil and natural gas concessions occurs in three stages: permit, license, and lease. Under a permit, the government grants the non-exclusive right to conduct a geological investigation over an area. The size of the area and the term of the permit are subject to the discretion of the GDMPA. A new petroleum law was passed by the Turkish government in May 2013, amending some of the processes related to licensing and operations in Turkey. The regulations concerning implementation were passed by the Turkish government in January 2014. The existing licenses and future licensing processes are currently in a transition phase from the old petroleum law to the new petroleum law. The new law provides that operators have the option to maintain their licenses under the old petroleum law for the duration of the existing terms of a license or to convert their licenses to the new petroleum law prior to the expiration of the license.
The GDMPA awards a license after it approves the applicant’s work program, which may include obligations such as geological and geophysical work, seismic reprocessing and interpretation and contingent shooting of seismic and drilling of wells. A license grants exclusive rights over an area for the exploration for and production of petroleum.
Licensing Under the Old Petroleum Law. A license has a term of four years and requires drilling activities by the third year, but this obligation may be deferred into the fourth year by posting a bond. A license is eligible for two separate two-year extensions by fulfilling prior work commitments and subscribing to additional work commitments. A final three-year term may be granted as an appraisal period for any oil or natural gas discovery registered in the previous terms. No single company may own more than an aggregate of 100% of eight licenses within a district. Rentals are due annually based on the size of the license.
Once a discovery is made, the license holder may apply to convert the area, not to exceed 25,000 hectares (approximately 62,000 acres), to a lease. Under a lease, the lessee may produce oil and natural gas. The term of a lease is for 20 years and may be extended for two further terms of 10 years each. Annual rentals are due based on the size of the lease. The production lease holder is typically able to apply for a new exploration license covering the area of the original exploration license, minus the area of the newly-granted production lease.
Licensing Under the New Petroleum Law. A license has a term of five years and requires the license holder to post a bond equal to 2% of the cost of the work commitments to secure the fulfillment of the work commitments. Licenses shall be based on map sections of scale equal to 1/50,000 (approximately 148,000 acres) or 1/25,000 (approximately 37,000 acres). A license is eligible for two separate two-year extensions by fulfilling prior work commitments and subscribing to additional work commitments including the drilling of at least one well in each separate extension period and providing a bond to secure fulfillment of the additional work commitments. A final two-year term may be granted to appraise a petroleum discovery made during the prior terms. An additional six-month extension may be granted during any of the foregoing terms in order to complete the drilling or testing of a well.
Once a discovery is made, the license holder may apply to convert part of the license area, covering the prospective petroleum field, to a production lease. Under a lease, the lessee may produce oil and natural gas. Based on production level, the term of a lease is for between 5 and 20 years and may be extended up to 40 years in total. The production lease holder is typically able to apply for a new exploration license covering the area of the original exploration license, minus the area of the newly-granted production lease.
The expiration dates reported on our exploration licenses and production leases below are subject to various extensions available under the old petroleum law and the new petroleum law. Those portions of exploration licenses with production are available during any term for conversion to a production lease with a term of between 5 and 20 years plus further extensions if production is maintained. We have converted some of our qualifying acreage into the new petroleum law regulations. Conversion into the new petroleum law provides for the renewal of the exploration license terms for qualifying acreage.
Southeastern Turkey. The following map shows our interests in Southeastern Turkey at December 31, 2019:
Arpatepe (Production Lease 5003). We own a 50% working interest in Production Lease 5003, which covers approximately 11,200 gross acres. For 2019, our wellhead production of oil from the Arpatepe field was 42,340 Bbls of oil, at an average rate of 116 Bbl/d. We are the operator of this production lease, which expires in November 2028, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws.
Bakuk (Production Lease 5043). We own a 50% working interest in Production Lease 5043, which covers approximately 34,400 gross acres. Park Place Energy, Ltd. is the operator of this production lease, which expires in January 2032, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws. The Bakuk-1R well was shut in during 2017 for security precautions and remained shut in during 2019.
Bati Yasince (Production Lease M45-A1-1). We own a 100% operated working interest in Production Lease M45-A1-1, which covers 7,200 gross acres. We are the operator of this production lease, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws. We applied for an extension of this production lease in November 2019. During 2019, we reentered the Bati-Yasince-1 well, targeting the Hazro formation.
Göksu (Production Lease M45-A4-1). We own a 100% operated working interest in Production Lease M45-A4-1, which covers approximately 14,500 gross acres. For 2019, our wellhead production of oil from this production lease was 14,965 Bbls of oil, at an average rate of 41 Bbls/d. We are the operator of this production lease, which expires in December 2020, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws. We expect to apply for extension of this production lease in 2020.
New Molla (Production Lease M45 -A1-2). We own a 100% operated working interest in the Bahar wells in Production Lease M45-A1-2, which covers approximately 24,130 gross acres. For 2019, our wellhead production of oil from the Bahar wells was 302,585 Bbls of oil, at an average rate of 829 Bbl/d. We are the operator of this production lease, which expires in March 2039, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws. During 2019, we drilled the Southeast Bahar-1 well and the Bahar-12 well, both of which began producing in 2019.
New Molla (Production Lease M45 -A2-1). We own a 100% operated working interest in Production Lease M45-A2-1, which covers approximately 29,331 gross acres. We are the operator of this production lease, which expires in March 2024, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws. During 2019, we drilled the Blackeye-1 well which began producing in 2019.
West Molla (Production Lease M44-B2-1). We own a 100% operated working interest in Production Lease M44-B2-1. In 2019, our wellhead production of oil from this production lease was 152,935 Bbls of oil, at an average rate of 419 Bbl/d. We are the operator of this production lease, which expires in June 2023, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws. During 2019, we drilled the Yeniev-4, Yeniev-5 and Yeniev-6 wells on this production lease. These wells began producing in 2019.
Selmo (Production Lease 829). We own a 100% operated working interest in Production Lease 829, which covers approximately 8,900 gross acres and includes the Selmo oil field. For 2019, our wellhead production of oil in the Selmo field was 486,545 Bbls of oil, at an average rate of 1,333 Bbl/d. We are the operator of this production lease, which expires in June 2025.
Selmo (Exploration License L46-C1). We own a 100% operated working interest in Exploration License L46-C1, which covers 28,921 gross acres. We are the operator of this exploration license, which expires in November 2023, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws.
Northwestern Turkey. The following map shows our interests in northwestern Turkey at December 31, 2019:
Adatepe (Production Lease 4959). We owned a 50% operated working interest in Production Lease 4959, which covers 3,086 gross acres. We were the operator of this production lease, which expires in September 2031, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws. On February 24, 2020, we sold the shares in Petrogas, which held this production lease. See “Item 1. Business-Recent Developments.”
Alpullu (Production Lease 4794) and Temrez (Exploration Licenses-B3,-A3,-A4, and-B4). We own a 100% operated working interest in this production lease and these exploration licenses, which cover 3,158 acres and 119,865 acres, respectively. We are the operator of this production lease and these exploration licenses, which expire in September 2028 and July 2020, respectively, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws. In 2019, we drilled the Karli-1 well.
Banarli (Production Lease 5059). We own a 50% operated working interest in Production Lease 5059, which covers 4,608 gross acres. We are the operator of this production lease, which expires in February 2032, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws.
Dogu Adatepe (Production Lease-B4-1). We owned a 50% working interest in Production Lease-B4-1, which covers part of our former Cayirdere license and approximately 4,000 gross acres. TPAO is the operator of this production lease, which expires in October 2020, with an additional 32 years of extensions under the new petroleum laws available with the maintenance of production on the lease. On February 24, 2020, we sold the shares in Petrogas, which held this production lease. See “Item 1. Business-Recent Developments.”
Edirne (Production Leases Ortakci E17-B4-1, Arpaci-Ikihoyuk E17-C2-1, and Umur-Kuzey Arpaci E17-C1-1) and Habiller (Production Lease Kisla E17-C1-2). We owned a 55% operated working interest in Production Leases Ortakci E17-B4-1, Arpaci-Ikihoyuk E17-C2-1, and Umur-Kuzey Arpaci E17-C1-1 and a 100% operated working interest in Production Lease Kisla E17-C1-2, which cover an aggregate of approximately 65,000 gross acres. We were the operator of these production leases, which each expire in 2020, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws. On February 24, 2020, we sold the shares in Petrogas, which held these production leases. See “Item 1. Business-Recent Developments.”
Gocerler (Production Lease 4200 and Production Leases E18-C3-2, E19-D4-1, and-A1-1). We owned a 50% operated working interest in Production Lease 4200 and Production Leases E18-C3-2, E19-D4-1, and-A1-1, which cover approximately 3,363 gross acres and 37,000 gross acres, respectively. We were the operator of these production leases, which expire in May 2023 and August 2021 through August 2025, respectively, with extensions available under the new petroleum laws. On February 24, 2020, we sold the shares in Petrogas, which held these production leases. See “Item 1. Business-Recent Developments.”
In 2019, our net wellhead production was 197,753 Mcf at an average rate of 542 Mcf/d from all the gas fields listed above.
Bulgaria
General. As of December 31, 2019, we operated and held interests in one production concession in Bulgaria. In January 2012, the Bulgarian Parliament enacted legislation that banned the fracture stimulation of oil and natural gas wells in the Republic of Bulgaria. The legislation also had the effect of preventing conventional drilling and completion activities. In June 2012, the Bulgarian Parliament amended the legislation to clarify that conventional drilling and completion activities were not intended to be affected by the law. As long as this legislation remains in effect, completion activity, production from our cased cemented existing wells, and our unconventional natural gas exploration, development, and production activities in Bulgaria will be significantly constrained. The following map shows our interests in Bulgaria at December 31, 2019:
Reserves. As of December 31, 2019, there were no reserves associated with our properties in Bulgaria.
Commercial Terms. Bulgaria’s petroleum laws provide a framework for investment and operation that allows foreign investors to retain the proceeds from the sale of petroleum production. The fiscal regime is comprised of royalties and income tax.
The royalty ranges from 2.5% to 30%, based on an “R factor” which is particular to each production concession agreement, but is typically calculated by dividing the total cumulative revenues from a production concession by the total cumulative costs incurred for that production concession.
The production concession holder pays Bulgarian corporate income tax, which is assessed at a rate of 10%. All costs incurred in connection with exploration, development, and production operations are deductible for corporate income tax purposes.
Resident companies which remit dividends outside of Bulgaria are subject to a dividend withholding tax between 10% and 15%, depending on the proportion of the capital owned by the recipient. No customs duty is payable on the export of petroleum, however a customs duty may be payable on the import of material necessary to conduct petroleum operations in certain conditions. There is also a 20% value added tax. Oil is priced at market while natural gas is tied to a bundle pricing based in part on the import price and in part on the domestic price.
Licensing Regime. The licensing process in Bulgaria for oil and natural gas concessions occurs in two stages: exploration permit and then production concession.
Under an exploration permit, the government grants exploration rights for a term of up to five years to conduct seismic and other exploratory activities, including drilling. The recipient of an exploration permit commits to a work program and posts a bank guarantee in the amount of 10% of the estimated cost for the program. The area covered by an onshore exploration permit may be as large as 5,000 square kilometers. The exploration permit may be extended for up to two additional two-year terms, subject to fulfillment of minimum work programs, and may be extended for an additional one-year term in order to appraise potential geologic discoveries. Interests under an exploration permit are transferable, subject to government approval. The permit holder is required to pay an annual area fee equal to 40 Bulgarian Lev (approximately $23 at December 31, 2019) per square kilometer, or 40 Bulgarian Lev (approximately $23 at December 31, 2019) per square kilometer in the event the permit term is extended.
Upon the registration of a commercial discovery, an exploration permit holder may apply for a production concession. The production concession size corresponds to the area of the commercial discovery. The duration of a production concession is 35 years and may be extended by a further 15 years subject to the terms and conditions of the production concession agreement. Interests under a production concession are transferable, subject to government approval. No bonus is paid to the government by us upon conversion to a production concession.
Koynare. We own a 100% working interest, subject to a 3.02% overriding royalty interest, in the Koynare production concession covering approximately 163,000 acres. The Koynare Concession Area contains the Devinci-R1 well, where we discovered a reservoir in the Jurassic-aged Ozirovo formation at a depth of approximately 13,800 feet, which the Bulgarian government has certified as a geologic and commercial discovery. We commenced the side-track and re-drilling of the Deventci R-1 well in December 2018, targeting the Ozirovu and Dolmi Dabnik formations. The well was drilled to a total depth of 16,450 feet. Although we encountered the targeted formations, tests did not indicate commercial quantities of reservoir quality rock, and we plugged and abandoned the well. We are currently evaluating future activity in Bulgaria. For purposes of our royalty conversion under the “R” factor, we have a cost recovery pool of approximately $47.2 million at December 31, 2019.
Summary of Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
The following table summarizes our net proved, probable, and possible reserves at December 31, 2019.
(1)
All of our reserves are located in Turkey
Value of Proved Reserves
The following table shows our estimated future net revenue, Standardized Measure, and PV-10 as of December 31, 2019:
(1)
DeGolyer and MacNaughton did not estimate the Standardized Measure.
(2)
The PV-10 value of the estimated future net revenue is not intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves we own. Management believes that the presentation of PV-10, while not a financial measure in accordance with U.S. GAAP, provides useful information to investors because it is widely used by professional analysts and sophisticated investors in evaluating oil and natural gas companies. Because many factors that are unique to each individual company impact the amount of future income taxes estimated to be paid, the use of a pre-tax measure is valuable when comparing companies based on reserves. PV-10 is not a measure of financial or operating performance under U.S. GAAP. PV-10 should not be considered as an alternative to the Standardized Measure as defined under U.S. GAAP. The Standardized Measure represents the PV-10 after giving effect to income taxes. The following table provides a reconciliation of our PV-10 to our Standardized Measure:
(1)
DeGolyer and MacNaughton did not estimate future income taxes, the discount of future income taxes at 10% per annum, or the Standardized Measure.
Proved Reserves
Estimates of proved developed and undeveloped reserves are inherently imprecise and are continually subject to revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes, and other factors. See “Oil and Natural Gas Reserves under U.S. Law.”
At December 31, 2019, our estimated proved reserves were 10,670 Mboe, an increase of 287 Mboe, or 2.8%, compared to 10,383 Mboe at December 31, 2018. This increase was primarily attributable to the discovery of productive pay in the Beloka formation in the Yeniev field of 1,059 Mboe. This was partially offset by 1,038 Mboe for volumes sold.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
At December 31, 2019, our estimated proved undeveloped reserves were 4,666 Mboe, a decrease of 294 Mboe, or 5.9%, compared to 4,960 Mboe at December 31, 2018. The decrease in proved undeveloped reserves was primarily attributable to revisions of previously estimated recoveries in the Yeniev, Bahar and Selmo oil fields. This decrease was partially offset by a 1,059 Mboe increase in proved undeveloped reserves due to the discovery of productive pay in the Beloka formation in the Yeniev oil field. All of our proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2019 will be developed within five years of the date the reserve was first disclosed as a proved undeveloped reserve. The estimated undiscounted capital costs associated with our proved undeveloped reserves in Turkey is $54.9 million.
The proved undeveloped reserves assume development costs will be funded from future cash flows from operations and financing activities, which may not be sufficient or available at commercially economic terms and could impact the timing of these development activities.
Probable Reserves
Estimates of probable reserves are inherently imprecise. When producing an estimate of the amount of oil and natural gas that is recoverable from a particular reservoir, an estimated quantity of probable reserves is an estimate of those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered. Estimates of probable reserves are also continually subject to revisions based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes, and other factors. See “-Oil and Natural Gas Reserves under U.S. Law.”
When deterministic methods are used, it is as likely as not that actual remaining quantities recovered will exceed the sum of estimated proved plus probable reserves. When probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 50% probability that the actual quantities recovered will equal or exceed the proved plus probable reserves estimates. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas of a reservoir adjacent to proved reserves where data control or interpretations of available data are less certain, even if the interpreted reservoir continuity of structure or productivity does not meet the reasonable certainty criterion. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir. Probable reserves estimates also include potential incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than assumed for proved reserves.
Possible Reserves
Estimates of possible reserves are also inherently imprecise. When producing an estimate of the amount of oil and natural gas that is recoverable from a particular reservoir, an estimated quantity of possible reserves is an estimate that might be achieved, but only under more favorable circumstances than are likely. Estimates of possible reserves are also continually subject to revisions based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes, and other factors. See “-Oil and Natural Gas Reserves under U.S. Law.”
When deterministic methods are used, the total quantities ultimately recovered from a project have a low probability of exceeding proved plus probable plus possible reserves. When probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 10% probability that the total quantities ultimately recovered will equal or exceed the proved plus probable plus possible reserves estimates. Possible reserves may be assigned to areas of a reservoir adjacent to probable reserves where data control and interpretations of available data are progressively less certain. Frequently, this will be in areas where geoscience and engineering data are unable to define clearly the area and vertical limits of commercial production from the reservoir by a defined project. Possible reserves also include incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than the recovery quantities assumed for probable reserves.
Possible reserves may be assigned where geoscience and engineering data identify directly adjacent portions of a reservoir within the same accumulation that may be separated from proved areas by faults with displacement less than formation thickness or other geological discontinuities and that have not been penetrated by a wellbore, and the registrant believes that such adjacent portions are in communication with the known (proved) reservoir. Possible reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher or lower than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir.
Internal Controls
Management has established, and is responsible for, a number of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that the estimates of proved, probable, and possible reserves are computed and reported in accordance with rules and regulations provided by the SEC as well as established industry practices used by independent engineering firms and our peers. These internal controls consist of documented process workflows and qualified professional engineering and geological personnel with specific reservoir experience. We also retained an outside independent engineering firm to prepare estimates of our proved, probable, and possible reserves for Turkey. We work closely with this firm, and management is responsible for providing accurate operating and technical data to it. Management has tested the processes and controls regarding our reserves estimates for 2019. Senior management reviews and approves our reserves estimates, whether prepared internally or by third parties. In addition, our audit committee serves as our reserves committee and is composed of three outside directors, all of whom have experience in the review of energy company reserves evaluations. The audit committee reviews the final reserves estimate and also meets with representatives from the outside engineering firm to discuss their process and findings.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves under U.S. Law
In the United States, we are required to disclose proved reserves, and we are permitted to disclose probable and possible reserves, using the standards contained in Rule 4-10(a) of the SEC’s Regulation S-X. The estimates of proved, probable, and possible reserves presented as of December 31, 2019 for Turkey have been prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton, our external engineers. The technical person at DeGolyer and MacNaughton that is primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserves estimates is a Registered Professional Engineer in the State of Texas and has a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from Texas A&M University. He has over 35 years of experience in oil and natural gas reservoir studies and evaluations and is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who work closely with DeGolyer and MacNaughton to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data furnished to them for the preparation of their reserves estimates. Our vice president of engineering has over 12 years of experience in oil and natural gas reservoir studies and evaluations. He has a BASC (Engineering) from the University of British Columbia and is a registered Professional Engineer (Alberta).
Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are projections based on a process involving an independent third-party engineering firm’s collection of all required geologic, geophysical, engineering and economic data, and such firm’s complete external preparation of all required estimates and are forward-looking in nature. These reports rely upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC, such as constant oil and natural gas prices, operating expenses and future capital costs. We also make assumptions relating to availability of funds and timing of capital expenditures for development of our proved undeveloped, probable, and possible reserves. These reports should not be construed as the current market value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is also dependent on geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Because of the uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of this data, we cannot ensure that the reserves will ultimately be realized. Our actual results could differ materially. See “Supplemental Information-Supplemental oil and natural gas reserves information (unaudited)” to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our oil and natural gas reserves.
The technologies and economic data used in the estimation of our proved, probable, and possible reserves include, but are not limited to, electrical logs, radioactivity logs, core analyses, geologic maps and available downhole and production data, seismic data and well test data. Reserves attributable to producing wells with sufficient production history were estimated using appropriate decline curves or other performance relationships. Reserves attributable to producing wells with limited production history were estimated using performance from analogous wells in the surrounding area and geologic data to assess the reservoir continuity. These wells were considered to be analogous based on production performance from the same formation and completion using similar techniques.
The estimates of proved, probable, and possible reserves prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton for the year ended December 31, 2019 included a detailed evaluation of our Selmo, Arpatepe, Bakuk, Molla, and certain Thrace Basin properties in Turkey. DeGolyer and MacNaughton determined that their estimates of reserves conform to the guidelines of the SEC, including the criteria of “reasonable certainty,” as it pertains to expectations about whether proved reserves are economically producible from a given date forward, under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations, consistent with the definition in Rule 4-10(a)(24) of SEC Regulation S-X.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves under Canadian Law
As a reporting issuer under Alberta, British Columbia and Ontario securities laws, we are required under Canadian law to comply with National Instrument 51-101 “Standards of Disclosure for Oil and Gas Activities” (“NI 51-101”) implemented by the members of the Canadian Securities Administrators in all of our reserves related disclosures. DeGolyer and MacNaughton evaluated our reserves as of December 31, 2019 for Turkey in accordance with the reserves definitions of NI 51-101 and the Canadian Oil and Gas Evaluators Handbook (“COGEH”). Our annual oil and natural gas reserves disclosures prepared in accordance with NI 51-101 and COGEH and filed in Canada are available at www.sedar.com.
Oil and Natural Gas Sales Volumes
The following table sets forth our sales volumes of oil and natural gas (including by field for any field that contained 15% or more of our total proved reserves) for 2019 and 2018:
(1)
“Oil” volumes include condensate (light oil) and medium crude oil.
Average Sales Price and Production Costs
The following table sets forth the average sales price per Bbl of oil and Mcf of natural gas and the average production cost, not including ad valorem and severance taxes, per unit of production for each of 2019 and 2018:
Drilling Activity
The following table sets forth the number of net productive and dry exploratory wells and net productive and dry development wells we drilled in 2019 and 2018:
Oil and Natural Gas Properties, Wells, Operations and Acreage
Productive Wells. The following table sets forth the number of productive wells (wells that were producing oil or natural gas or were capable of production) in which we held a working interest as of December 31, 2019:
(1)
“Gross wells” means the wells in which we held a working interest (operating or non-operating).
(2)
“Net wells” means the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross wells.
Developed Acreage. The following table sets forth our total gross and net developed acreage as of December 31, 2019:
(1)
“Gross” means the total number of acres in which we had a working interest.
(2)
“Net” means the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres.
Undeveloped Acreage. The following table sets forth our undeveloped land position as of December 31, 2019:
(1)
“Gross” means the total number of acres in which we had a working interest.
(2)
“Net” means the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres.
Undeveloped Acreage Expirations. The following table summarizes by year our undeveloped acreage as of December 31, 2019 that is scheduled to expire in the next five years:
(1)
“Gross” means the total number of acres in which we had a working interest.
(2)
“Net” means the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres.
We anticipate that we will be able to extend the license terms for substantially all of our undeveloped acreage in Turkey scheduled to expire in 2020 through the execution of our current work commitments.
Item 3.