Item 2. PROPERTIES AND STATEMENT OF OIL AND GAS INFORMATION
In accordance with the Company’s disclosure obligations pursuant to NI 51-101 promulgated by the Canadian Securities Administrators, the following is the Company’s statement of reserves data and other oil and gas information for the year ended April 30, 2008 and is dated June 27, 2008 (the “Statement”). The information contained in this section of the Form 10-K has been prepared as of June 23, 2008 and has an effective date of April 30, 2008.
Pursuant to NI 51-101 the Company is required to include 100% of the oil and gas interests owned by OQI Sask, Township and WPC in the Company’s oil and gas disclosure. No information is provided in respect of reserves attributable to the Company as no reserves have been attributed to any of the Company’s properties to date and, accordingly, the Company has no production or related future net revenue.
Oil and Gas Properties and Wells
Oilsands Quest holds permits, license and lease rights for oil sands and oil shale exploration and development to 1.2 million acres of land in Saskatchewan and Alberta, Canada.
Saskatchewan, Canada Oil Sands Rights
Oil Sands Permits and Licenses
The Axe Lake Discovery covers a portion of these permits - see details below under “Axe Lake Discovery”
Oil Sands Permits
The permits were granted by the Province of Saskatchewan in 2004 under the Oil Shale Regulations, 1964 as amended, revised or substituted from time to time, for a term of five years. The permits provide for the right to explore and work the permit lands but not to remove, produce or recover, except for test purposes, oil products until a lease, pursuant to these regulations has been granted. The term of the permits may be extended for up to three one-year extensions subject to regulatory approvals, as required. The Saskatchewan permit lands comprise an area totaling 508,080 acres.
The permits are subject to annual rental payments and certain levels of expenditures annually pursuant to the terms of the permits and government regulations. On May 7, 2007, the province updated the Oil Shale Regulations, 1964 requiring an increase to annual rentals of $0.10 ($0.10 CDN) per acre for the remaining term of the permits. The required exploration expenditures to hold the permits were also increased to $0.80 ($0.81 CDN) per acre for each of the remaining years of the permits and $1.20 ($1.21 CDN) per acre for each year that the permits are extended. OQI is in compliance with the current expenditure requirements.
Axe Lake Discovery
The Axe Lake area is a notional area identified by the Company and located in an area of approximately 72 sections (72 square miles) located in Townships 94 and 95, Ranges 24 and 25 West of the 3rd Meridian. As a result of the winter 2007/2008 program the Axe Lake Discovery area now covers approximately 65 sections (65 square miles) of Permits PS00208 and PS00210 (100% Oilsands Quest) located in the north half of Township 94 and the south half of Township 95, Ranges 24 and 25 West of the 3rd Meridian.
Oil Sands Licenses
On August 13, 2007, the Company acquired five oil sands licenses from the Province of Saskatchewan totaling 109,920 acres granted under the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulations, 1969, as amended, revised or substituted from time to time, for a term of five years. The licenses provide for the exclusive right to search for oil sands on the lands granted and to win, recover, extract, carry off, dispose of and sell the oils sands products found on the license lands. The oil sands licenses provide the opportunity to convert up to 100% of the licenses to a production lease on the basis of one section of land for every well that intersects an oil sands zone. Licenses require annual rental payments of $0.70 ($0.71 CDN) per acre. The Company has paid all required annual rental payments for the licenses granted.
Alberta, Canada Oil Sands Rights
Oil Sands Permits
Raven Ridge Prospect and Raven Ridge Discovery
During the year ended April 30, 2007, the Company acquired four oil sands permits totaling 67,053 acres (“Raven Ridge Prospect”) in a public offering of Crown Oil Sands. The permits were granted by the Province of Alberta under the terms of the Mines and Minerals Act, Alberta. The permits provide the opportunity to convert up to 100% of the permits to a production lease following the completion of specified work requirements which requires the drilling of at least one delineation core test well per section over the permit term. Permits are granted for a five-year primary term and require annual rental payments of $1.41 ($1.42 CDN) per acre. Following the evaluation of the 2007/2008 Exploration program, we announced a discovery in the Raven Ridge Prospect area. The area of the resource estimate within the Raven Ridge Discovery covers approximately ten sections located within Townships 93 and 94, Range 1W4 in Alberta, directly to the east of the Axe Lake Discovery area.
Wallace Creek Prospect
On January 23, 2008, the Company acquired two oil sands permits totaling 45,546 acres (“Wallace Creek Prospect”) in a public offering of Crown Oil Sands Rights. The permits were granted by the Province of Alberta under the terms of the Mines and Minerals Act, Alberta. The permits provide the opportunity to convert up to 100% of the permits to a production lease following the completion of specified work requirements which requires the drilling of
at least one delineation core test well per section over the permit term. Permits are granted for a five-year primary term and require annual rental payments of $1.41 ($1.42 CDN) per acre.
Oil Sands Lease
Eagles Nest Prospect
Township acquired Alberta Oil Sands Lease No. 7405080355, the “Eagles Nest Prospect”, in an Alberta Crown Sale. The lease was granted by the Province of Alberta under the terms of the Mines and Minerals Act, Alberta. The lease provides the exclusive right to drill for, win, work and recover together with the right to remove oil sands from the lease lands for a term of 15 years and for so long after that term as the lease is permitted to continue under the Mines and Minerals Act, Alberta. The annual lease rental payable to the Province of Alberta for the Eagles Nest Prospect is $31,952 ($32,256 CDN) per year. The Company has paid the required annual lease rentals to maintain the lease in good standing.
Saskatchewan, Canada Oil Shale Rights
Oil Shale Permits-Pasquia Hills Oil Shale Prospect
The oil shale permits were granted by the Province of Saskatchewan under the Oil Shale Regulations, 1964, as amended, revised or substituted from time to time for a term of five years. The permits provide for the right to explore and work the permit lands but not to remove, produce or recover, except for test purposes, oil products until a lease, pursuant to these regulations has been granted. The term of the permits may be extended for up to three one-year extensions subject to regulatory approvals, as required. The annual rental payable in advance was $0.05 ($0.05 CDN) per acre for the current (first) year. On May 7, 2007, the province updated the regulations requiring annual rentals of $0.10 ($0.10 CDN) per acre for the remaining term of the permit. The required exploration expenditures to hold the permits were also increased to $0.40 ($0.40 CDN) per acre for the second year of the permits, $0.80 ($0.81 CDN) per acre for the last three years of the permits and $1.20 ($1.21 CDN) per acre for each year that the permit is extended, as required.
On August 13, 2007, the Company acquired one additional oil shale exploration permit granted under the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulations, 1969 (Saskatchewan) as amended, revised or substituted from time to time for a term of five years totaling 83,769 acres in the same area near Hudson Bay, Saskatchewan. The permits provide for the right, license, privilege and authority to explore for oil shale within the permit lands. The term of the permits may be extended for up to three one-year extensions subject to regulatory approvals, if required. This oil shale permit was acquired under a land sale work commitment bid for the first two years of the permit. The Company bid a total work commitment of $298,730 ($301,568 CDN) to be incurred during the first two years of the permit and
the permit requires a further work commitment of $0.80 ($0.81 CDN) per acre for the last three years and $1.20 ($1.21 CDN) for each extension year plus annual rental payments of $0.10 ($0.10 CDN) per acre.
The Company has paid the required annual rental payments to maintain the permits in good standing.
Oil and Gas Wells
The Company is an exploration company active in the non-conventional areas of oil sands and oil shales, exploring for commercial quantities of bitumen and kerogen, respectively. As such, the wells it has drilled to date are not anticipated to produce substances and are resource delineation wells, solely. All wells are abandoned immediately upon completing the drilling and testing of the resource potential. The following table sets forth the number of resource delineation wells in which the Company drilled and held a working interest as at April 30, 2008. All of the Company’s wells are located onshore, in the provinces of Saskatchewan and Alberta, Canada.
Properties with No Attributed Reserves
The Company’s lands described in Part I, Item 2, “Oil and Gas Properties and Wells” and “Oil and Gas Wells” have no proved or producing reserves. The Company does not expect that any of its permits, licenses, and leases will expire within one year.
Forward Contracts
There are no hedging contracts in place.
Information Concerning Abandonment and Reclamation Costs
We have not yet recognized any retirement, abandonment or reclamation obligation in our financial statements. All delineation wells are abandoned and reclaimed immediately and these costs are included with our exploration costs incurred. As at April 30, 2008, we estimate the total undiscounted amount required to settle the asset retirement obligations in respect of the Company’s wells and facilities is approximately $3 million. This estimate includes the costs to reclaim the air strip, camp site, access roads and four reservoir test wells. However, since we have yet to determine the commercial viability of the Axe Lake Discovery we cannot with certainty determine a reasonable timeframe in which those costs will be incurred. This estimate could change as the reclamation requirements will be a function of regulatory regulations in place at the time.
Tax Horizon
No income taxes will be payable until a revenue-generating project has been identified and completed. No project has been identified at this time and no taxes will be payable in the near future.
Costs Incurred
Costs incurred by the Company on its properties during the year ended April 30, 2008 are summarized as follows (in $US):
Exploration and Development Activities
The following table sets forth the number of oil sands exploratory resource delineation wells, which the Company drilled during its 2008 financial year. No development wells were drilled during the 2007-2008 financial year.
For a complete description of our most important current and likely exploration and development activities, see Part 1, Item 1 “Description of Business - Activities to Date” and “Outlook”.
Production
Effective April 30, 2008, we did not have any production or production revenue on any of our properties.
Independent Resource Evaluation
The SEC defines proved oil and gas reserves as the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Under this definition we have no proved oil reserves as of April 30, 2008.
The information set forth below relating to the Company’s resources constitute “forward-looking” statements which are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. For a complete description of the risk factors and “forward looking statements” associated with our resource estimate, see “Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Statements” at the front of this document and Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors”.
Summary of Discovered and Undiscovered Bitumen Resources
McDaniel - October 2007 and June 2008
(Billions of barrels)
McDaniel & Associates Consultants Ltd. (“McDaniel”) has conducted an independent resource estimate of a portion of Oilsands Quest’s permit lands, based on data obtained from the results of drilling up to March 26, 2008 (the end of the winter 2007/08 drilling program) and other sources and including the physical examination of cores and geophysical logs. McDaniel has reported the estimates of Discovered and Undiscovered Resources (see Canadian Resource Definitions section below) for a portion of the Axe Lake Discovery and a portion of the Raven Ridge Discovery. The estimates are effective as of April 30, 2008 and were prepared as of June 23, 2008. The table above includes a comparison to the independent resource estimate of the Axe Lake Discovery prepared by McDaniel in October 2007 based on the results of the winter 2006/2007 drilling program.
The estimates reflect Oilsands Quest’s 100% interest in the Axe Lake and Raven Ridge Discoveries and represent only those resources that have been independently evaluated. Independent estimates of the resource potential of Oilsands Quest’s other lands will follow when complete.
The area of the Discovered Resource estimate within the Axe Lake Discovery covers approximately 41 sections of Permits PS00208 and PS00210 located within Townships 94 and 95, Ranges 24 and 25W3 in Saskatchewan, approximately 115 kilometres (69 miles) northeast of Fort McMurray. The area of the Discovered Resource estimate within the Raven Ridge Discovery covers approximately 10 sections located within Townships 93 and 94, Range 1W4 in Alberta,
directly to the east of the Axe Lake Discovery area (plus 38 sections for the Undiscovered Resource estimate).
The total area covered by these Discovered Resource estimates represents approximately 4.6% of Oilsands Quest’s total contiguous permit and license lands (Discovered plus Undiscovered represents approximately 8%). Other permit, license and lease lands, including areas that Oilsands Quest considers highly prospective based on extensive seismic and other data, have not been evaluated at this time.
Bitumen resources within the portion of the Axe Lake Discovery area reviewed by McDaniel have been classified as Discovered Resources due to the density of delineation drilling on this property. Bitumen resources within the portion of the Raven Ridge Discovery area have been classified as both Discovered Resources and Undiscovered Resources, as much of the Raven Ridge area remains undrilled at this time (see definitions of “Discovered Resources” and “Undiscovered Resources” and related definitions under “Canadian Resource Definitions”, below). With respect to the Discovered Resources, there is no certainty that it will be commercially viable to produce any portion of the resources. With respect to the Undiscovered Resources, there is no certainty that any portion of the resources will be discovered and, if discovered, there is no certainty that it will be commercially viable to produce any portion of the resources.
These estimates of Discovered and Undiscovered Bitumen Resources have not yet been sub-classified based on recoverable volumes, as additional reservoir data is required to determine the optimal in-situ exploitation method for the Axe Lake and Raven Ridge Discoveries. The estimates have been prepared and presented in accordance with the Canadian standards set out in the Canadian Oil and Gas Evaluation Handbook (“COGEH”) and National Instrument 51-101 (“NI 51-101”). In December 2007, NI 51-101 was amended to provide further guidance on standards of disclosure of this nature. A key element of the new amended standards prescribes that estimates of bitumen resources must relate to the most specific categorization of resources, as set out in the COGEH and must identify what portion of the estimate is attributable to each category. Under the COGEH classification system, “Discovered Resources” are sub-classified further as “Contingent Resources” and “Discovered Unrecoverable Resources” (with respect to “Undiscovered Resources”, the equivalent sub-classification is “Prospective Resources” and “Undiscovered Unrecoverable Resources”). The determination of which portions of the Discovered and Undiscovered Resources at Axe Lake and Raven Ridge can be deemed to be Contingent and Prospective, respectively, (i.e. “recoverable”) and which portions of the estimates are deemed to be unrecoverable at this time requires that the evaluator prepare an estimate of this proportionate breakdown (see definitions of “Discovered Resources”, “Undiscovered Resources”, “Contingent Resources”, “Prospective Resources” and related definitions below).
McDaniel is of the opinion that significant portions of the Discovered and Undiscovered Bitumen Resources at Axe Lake and Raven Ridge are potentially recoverable using existing demonstrated technologies. However, insufficient reservoir data exists at this time to allow McDaniel to estimate the quantities of recoverable and unrecoverable volumes underlying the current estimates of Discovered Resources and Undiscovered Resources at Axe Lake and Raven Ridge. Oilsands Quest and McDaniel expect that additional data will be derived from the reservoir test program Oilsands Quest intends to conduct during 2008/2009. The additional data to be gathered from this reservoir test program
will include reservoir pressure, additional permeability and mobility data, flow data and bitumen/till interface behaviour. McDaniel advises that this data is required in order to properly estimate the proportions of recoverable and unrecoverable volumes. It is expected that when this data is available, Oilsands Quest will engage an independent qualified reserves evaluator to provide the further sub-classification of the Discovered and Undiscovered Resource estimates at Axe Lake and Raven Ridge as Contingent Resources and Prospective Resources.
Similar to other bitumen accumulations within the eastern portion of Alberta, the Axe Lake and Raven Ridge Discovery areas lack a distinct overlying shale zone. McDaniel is of the opinion that the absence of a distinct overlying shale zone may preclude the use of certain high-pressure in-situ recovery methods, but that the quality of the reservoirs and high bitumen saturations present at the Axe Lake and Raven Ridge areas provide the potential for extraction using a number of existing technologies as well as other low pressure in-situ extraction methods currently in pilot testing within other areas of the Athabasca Oil Sands region. At this time, Oilsands Quest is actively engaged in executing its reservoir test program and related laboratory simulation studies that will support the technical review and analysis of the suitability of each of these methods for extraction operations at Axe Lake and Raven Ridge. Potential extraction methods that may be applicable to Axe Lake and Raven Ridge include low-pressure SAGD operations, enhanced SAGD, SAGD combined with methane injection to manage steam-chamber growth, and electro-thermal heating. Oilsands Quest has received interim results from laboratory simulation and computer simulation studies that indicate there is good potential for bitumen recovery using hot water and/or steam and steam/solvents. Further, these studies indicate that it is reasonable to expect that steam pressures can be managed and controlled to ensure that penetration above the McMurray bitumen-containing formation is limited and that heat losses to the overburden would be minimal. These simulation studies are being conducted to assist in the specification of pressure and temperature conditions that will form part of the on-site reservoir test program later this year.
Canadian Resource Definitions
Discovered Resources (equivalent to discovered bitumen initially-in-place) is defined within the COGEH as that quantity of bitumen that is estimated, as of a given date, to be contained within known accumulations prior to production. The recoverable portion of Discovered Resources is referred to as production, Contingent Resources and reserves; the remainder is classified as unrecoverable. Discovered Resources are the summation of all bitumen present, without qualitative or quantitative assessment to determine the exploitable portion of that resource.
Undiscovered Resources (equivalent to undiscovered bitumen initially-in-place) is defined within the COGEH as that quantity of bitumen that is estimated, on a given date, to be contained in accumulations yet to be discovered. The recoverable portion of Undiscovered Resources is referred to as Prospective Resources; the remainder is classified as unrecoverable. Undiscovered Resources are the summation of all bitumen thought to be present on undelineated lands, without qualitative or quantitative assessment to determine the exploitable portion of that resource.
Contingent Resources is defined within the COGEH as those quantities of petroleum estimated, as of a given date, to be potentially recoverable from known accumulations using established technology or technology under development, but which are not currently considered to be commercially recoverable due to one or more contingencies. Contingencies may include factors such as economic, legal, environmental, political, and regulatory matters, or a lack of markets. It is also appropriate to classify as Contingent Resources the estimated discovered recoverable quantities associated with a project in the early evaluation stage. Contingent Resources are further classified in accordance with the level of certainty associated with the estimates and may be sub-classified based on project maturity and/or characterized by their economic status.
Prospective Resources is defined within the COGEH as those quantities of petroleum estimated, as of a given date, to be potentially recoverable from undiscovered accumulations by application of future development projects. Prospective Resources have both an associated chance of discovery and a chance of development. Prospective Resources are further subdivided in accordance with the level of certainty associated with recoverable estimates assuming their discovery and development and may be sub-classified based on project maturity.
Discovered Unrecoverable Resources (equivalent to discovered unrecoverable petroleum initially-in-place) is defined within the COGEH as that portion of Discovered Resources which is estimated, as of a given date, not to be recoverable by future development projects. A portion of these quantities may become recoverable in the future as commercial circumstances change or technological developments occur; the remaining portion may never be recovered due to the physical/chemical constraints represented by subsurface interaction of fluids and reservoir rocks.
The Discovered and Undiscovered Resource estimates described in above were determined in accordance with the COGEH using the following mutually exclusive categories:
•
Low Estimate: This is considered to be a conservative estimate of the quantity of bitumen that exists within the accumulation, which under probabilistic methodology reflects a P90 confidence level.
•
Best Estimate: This is considered to be the best estimate of the quantity of bitumen that exists within the accumulation. Under probabilistic methodology, this term is a measure of the central tendency of the uncertainty distribution (most likely/mode, P50/median, or arithmetic average/mean).
•
High Estimate: This is considered to be an optimistic estimate of the quantity of bitumen that exists within the accumulation, which under probabilistic methodology reflects a P10 confidence level.
Item 3.