ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
UNITED STATES Piceance and Uintah Basins - At December 31, 2000, Carbon owned working interests in 126 producing wells in the Piceance Basin of Colorado and Uintah Basin of Utah. Carbon operates 112 wells of these wells. For the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company did not participate in any drilling activities in these basins. The Company has leasehold rights in approximately 129,000 gross and 106,000 net acres of which approximately 91,000 gross and 73,000 net acres are undeveloped. Carbon's focus in the United States during 2001 is to continue the development of its natural gas properties in the Rocky Mountains, with emphasis on the Piceance and Uintah Basins.
Permian Basin - At December 31, 2000, Carbon owned working interests in 81 producing wells in the Permian Basin of New Mexico and Texas. Carbon operates twelve of these wells. For the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company participated in the drilling of ten wells (2.3 net), of which nine (2.0 net) were completed as oil wells. The Company has leasehold rights in approximately 27,000 gross and 9,000 net acres of which approximately 10,000 gross and 4,000 net acres are undeveloped.
Hugoton Basin - At December 31, 2000, Carbon owned working interest in 18 producing wells in the Hugoton Basin of Southwestern Kansas. Carbon operates four of these wells. For the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company participated in the drilling of four wells (3.5 net), of which one (1.0 net) was completed as an oil well. The Company has leasehold rights in approximately 27,000 gross and 21,000 net acres of which approximately 24,000 gross and 20,000 net acres are undeveloped.
San Juan Basin - At December 31, 2000, Carbon owned working interests in 40 producing wells in the San Juan Basin of New Mexico, all of which it operates. For the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company did not participate in any drilling activities in this basin. The Company has leasehold rights in approximately 5,000 gross and 4,000 net acres of which approximately 2,000 gross and 1,000 net acres are undeveloped. In January 2001, Carbon announced that it had closed the sale of its entire working interests and related leasehold rights in the San Juan Basin. The effective date of the sale was September 1, 2000 and the purchase price was $7.5 million, subject to certain adjustments. The Company expects to utilize the proceeds from the sale to partially fund its 2001 drilling program.
CANADA Alberta - At December 31, 2000, Carbon owned working interests in 58 producing wells primarily in the Carbon and Rowley areas of Alberta. Carbon operates 33 of these wells. For the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company participated in the drilling of eight wells (4.9 net), all of which were completed as gas wells. These activities were conducted during the fourth quarter of 2000. The Company has leasehold rights in approximately 42,000 gross and 24,000 net acres of which approximately 12,000 gross and 7,000 net acres are undeveloped. Carbon's focus in Canada during 2001 is to continue the development of its natural gas properties in central Alberta, with emphasis on the Carbon and Rowley areas.
Saskatchewan - At December 31, 2000, Carbon owned non-operating working interests in ten producing wells in Southeast Saskatchewan. For the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company did not participate in any drilling activities in this area. The Company has leasehold rights in approximately 7,000 gross and 3,000 net acres of which approximately 6,000 gross and 3,000 net acres are undeveloped.
RESERVES
The table below sets forth the Company's estimated quantities of historical proved reserves and the present values attributable to those reserves as of December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998. The estimates for the Company's reserves in the United States were prepared by Ryder Scott Company, an independent reservoir engineering firm and the estimates for the Company's reserves in Canada were prepared by Sproule Associates Limited, independent geological and petroleum engineering consultants. Additional information regarding the Company's proved and proved developed oil and gas reserves and the standardized measure of discounted net cash flow and changes therein are described in Note 14 to the December 31, 2000 financial statements of Carbon and in Note 10 to the October 31, 1999 financial statements of BFC.
- ---------------------- (1) Reserves for December 31, 1998 are for the Company's predecessor, BFC. (2) Canadian reserves are presented only for December 31, 2000 as the Company acquired CEC in February 2000. (3) Proved developed oil and gas reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
The estimate of net proved reserves at December 31, 2000 included volumes attributable to the Company's working interest in 40 natural gas wells located in the San Juan Basin of New Mexico. These properties were sold in January 2001. The proved reserves for these properties were estimated to be 38,000 barrels of oil and 5.6 Bcf of natural gas. The present value of estimated future net revenues before future income tax, discounted at 10% for these properties were $24.0 million.
In accordance with applicable requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), estimates of the Company's proved reserves and future net reserves are made using sale prices estimated to be in effect as of the date of the reserve estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties (except to the extent provided by contractual arrangements in existence at year end). Price declines decrease reserve values by lowering the future net revenues attributable to the reserves and may reduce the quantities of reserves that are recoverable on an economic basis. Price increases may have the opposite effect. A significant decline in prices of natural gas or oil could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Future prices received for production and future production costs may vary, perhaps significantly, from the prices and costs assumed for purposes of the estimates.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. Oil and gas reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas and oil that cannot be measured in an exact way, and estimates of other engineers might differ materially from those shown above. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and engineering and geological interpretations and judgment. Results of
drilling, testing and production may justify revisions. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often materially different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. The meaningfulness of such estimates depends primarily on the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they were based. In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties the Company owns declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent the Company acquires additional properties containing proved reserves or conducts successful exploration and development activities or both, the proved reserves of the Company will decline as reserves are produced. Reserves generated from future activities of the Company are therefore highly dependent upon the level of success in acquiring or discovering additional reserves and the costs incurred in doing so.
Since January 1, 2000, the Company has filed the Department of Energy Form EIA-23, "Annual Survey of Domestic Oil and Gas Reserves," as required by operators of oil and gas properties in the United States. There are differences between the reserves as reported on Form EIA-23 and reserves as reported herein. Form EIA-23 requires that operators report on total proved reserves for operated wells only and that reported reserves be reported on a gross basis rather than on a net basis.
PRODUCTION
The following table sets forth information regarding net oil and natural gas production, average sales prices and other production information. Average sales prices for natural gas, oil and liquids are inclusive of hedging gains and losses for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.
- ----------------------
(1) For 1999, the results represent the combined activities of the Company for November and December 1999 and Carbon's predecessor, BFC, for the period January through October 1999. Results for 1998 are for BFC. (2) The results for 2000 are the results of CEC subsequent to its acquisition by Carbon in February 2000. Volumetric production figures are presented net before Crown royalty interests. (3) Oil and liquids production is converted to natural gas equivalents (Mcfe) at the rate of one barrel to six Mcf.
PRODUCTIVE WELLS
The following table sets forth information regarding the number of productive wells in which the Company held a working interest at December 31, 2000.
- ---------------------- (1) Each well completed to more than one producing zone is counted as a single well. The Company has royalty interests in certain wells that are not included in this table. (2) A gross well is a well in which a working interest is owned. The number of gross wells is the total number of wells in which a working interest is owned. (3) A net well is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership working interests in gross wells equals one. The number of net wells is the sum of the fractional working interest owned in gross wells.
The number of productive wells in which the Company held a working interest at December 31, 2000, included 40 natural gas wells located in the San Juan Basin of New Mexico. These properties were sold in January 2001.
DRILLING ACTIVITY
The Company engages in exploratory and developmental drilling on its own and in association with other oil and gas companies. The following table sets forth the wells drilled for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.
- -----------------------
(1) For 1999, the results represent the combined activities of the Company for November and December 1999 and Carbon's predecessor, BFC, for the period January through October 1999. Results for 1998 are for BFC. (2) The results for 2000 are the results of CEC subsequent to its acquisition by Carbon in February, 2000. (3) A gross well is a well in which a working interest is owned. The number of gross wells is the total number of wells in which a working interest is owned. (4) A non-productive hole is a well deemed to be incapable of producing either natural gas or oil in sufficient quantities to justify completion as a natural gas or oil well. (5) A net well is deemed to exist when the sum of the fractional ownership working interests in gross wells equals one. The number of net wells is the sum of the fractional working interest owned in gross wells.
At December 31, 2000, the Company was participating in the drilling of three gross (2.5 net) wells in the United States and three gross (three net) wells in Canada.
DEVELOPED AND UNDEVELOPED ACREAGE
The following table sets forth the leasehold acreage held by the Company at December 31, 2000.
- ----------------------- (1) Developed acres are those acres which are spaced or assigned to productive wells. (2) Undeveloped acres are considered to be those acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves. It should not be confused with undrilled acreage held by production under the terms of a lease. (3) A gross acre is an acre in which a working interest is owned. The number of gross acres is the total number of acres in which a working interest is owned. (4) A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of the fractional ownership working interests in gross acres equals one. The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres.
MARKETING
The Company sells all of its natural gas and oil production from wells that it operates. In Canada, the Company's natural gas liquids production is currently marketed through the operator of facilities that process the Company's gas for liquids recovery. The Company's oil and natural gas production is generally sold to end users, marketers, refineries and other purchasers having access to natural gas pipeline facilities near its properties and the ability to truck oil to the local refineries or oil pipelines.
The Company generally enters into short-term gas sales contracts for the sale of natural gas from its properties. As of December 31, 2000, the Company was committed to natural gas sales contracts that had fixed prices or price ceilings covering 1,500 MMbtu/day and 1,896 MMbtu/day in the United States and Canada, respectively. These contracts expire in March 2001.
The Company believes that it will have sufficient production from its properties to meet the Company's delivery obligations under its existing natural gas sales contracts. As of December 31, 2000, the Company has entered into various natural gas transportation agreements in Canada. The Company typically assigns these transportation agreements to a buyer of the Company's production during the term of the natural gas sales contract between the Company and the buyer. The Company is typically paid on an index basis, net of transportation charges incurred by the buyer. The rights and obligations under these transportation agreements will revert back to the Company upon expiration of the natural gas sales contracts.
In the United States, oil is typically sold under contracts extending up to a year at prices based upon a local market posting for oil which generally approximates a West Texas Intermediate posting and is adjusted to reflect transportation costs and quality. In Canada, oil and liquids are typically sold under short-term contracts at prices based upon posted prices at Alberta pipeline and processing hubs and is adjusted to reflect transportation costs and quality.
Please see Note 10 to the December 31, 2000 financial statements of Carbon for information on major customers.
COMPETITION
The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. The Company encounters competition from other oil and natural gas companies including major oil companies, other independent oil and natural gas concerns and individual producers and operators, for the acquisition of producing properties and exploration and development prospects. The Company also competes with other oil and natural gas companies in attempting to secure drilling rigs and other equipment necessary for drilling and completion of wells. We compete with a large number of companies having substantially larger technical staffs and greater financial and operational resources. The ability of the Company to increase reserves in the future will be dependent on its ability to acquire desirable producing properties and prospects for future development and exploration.
TITLE TO PROPERTIES
Title to the Company's properties is subject to royalty, overriding royalty, carried, net profits, working and similar interests customary in the oil and gas industry. The Company's properties may also be subject to liens incident to operating agreements, as well as other encumbrances, easements and restrictions and for current taxes not yet due. For acquisitions of developed properties, the Company will conduct a title examination on all material properties, typically reviewed by title attorneys. Consistent with standard industry practice, title investigation before acquiring undeveloped properties is typically less rigorous than that conducted prior to drilling a well. Prior to the commencement of drilling operations, a title examination is performed and curative work is performed with respect to material title defects. The methods of title examination adopted by the Company are reasonable in the opinion of management, to insure that production from its properties, if obtained, will be readily salable for the account of the Company.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
UNITED STATES
The Company's United States operations are regulated at the federal, state and local levels. Natural gas and oil exploration, development, production and marketing activities are subject to various laws and regulations and are periodically changed for a variety of political, economical and other reasons.
In the past, the federal government has regulated the prices at which oil and natural gas could be sold. The Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 removed all price controls affecting producing wellhead sales effective January 1, 1993. While sales by producers of oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids can currently be made at uncontrolled market prices, Congress could reenact price controls in the future. The Company's natural gas sales are affected by regulation of intrastate and interstate transportation. In recent years the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has issued a series of orders that has increased competition by, among other things, removing the transportation barriers to market access. These orders have had a significant impact upon gas markets in the United States and have fostered the development of a large spot market for gas and increased competition for gas markets. As a result of the FERC orders, producers can access gas markets directly but face increased competition for these markets. The Company believes that these changes have generally improved the Company's access to transportation and has enhanced the marketability of its natural gas production. To date the Company believes it has not experienced any material adverse effects as a result of these FERC orders; however the Company cannot predict
what new regulations may be adopted by FERC and other regulatory authorities and the effect, if any, subsequent regulations may have on the Company.
The Company's oil and natural gas operations are regulated by administrative agencies under statutory provisions of the states where such operations are conducted and by certain agencies of the Federal government for operations on federal oil and gas leases. All of the jurisdictions in which the Company owns or operates producing oil and natural gas properties have statutory provisions regulating the exploration for and production of crude oil and natural gas. These statutes include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units and the number of wells which may be drilled in an area and the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and natural gas wells, typically prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas, and impose certain requirements regarding the apportionment of production from fields and individual wells. The effect of these regulations may limit the amount of oil and natural gas the Company can produce from its wells and to limit the number of wells or location at which the Company can drill. State commissions establish rules for reclamation of sites, plugging bonds, reporting and other matters.
Increasingly, a number of city and county governments have enacted oil and natural gas regulations which have increased the involvement of local governments in the permitting of oil and natural gas operations and impart additional restrictions or conditions on the conduct of operators to mitigate the impact of operations on the local community. These local restrictions have the potential to delay and increase the cost of oil and natural gas operations.
CANADA The oil and natural gas industry in Canada is subject to extensive controls and regulations imposed by various levels of government. Federal authorities do not regulate the price of oil and gas in export trade but instead rely on market forces to establish these prices. Legislation exists that regulates the quantities of oil and natural gas which may be removed from the provinces and exported from Canada. The Company does not expect that any of these controls and regulations will affect the Company in a manner significantly different than other oil and natural gas companies of similar size.
The provinces in which the Company operates have legislation and regulation which govern land tenure, royalties, production rates and environmental protection. The royalty regime in the provinces in which the Company operates is a significant factor in the profitability of the Company's production. Crown royalties are determined by government regulation and are typically calculated as a percentage of production. The value of the production and the rate of royalties payable depends on prescribed reference prices, well productivity, geographical location and the type or quality of the product produced.
In Alberta, the Company is entitled to a credit against Crown royalties on most of the properties in which the Company has an interest in by virtue of the Alberta Royalty Tax Credit (ARTC). The credit is determined by applying a rate to a maximum of CDN $2.0 million of Crown royalties payable in Alberta for each company or associated group of companies. The rate is a function of the royalty tax credit par prices which is determined quarterly by the Alberta Department of Energy. The rate ranges from 25% to 75% depending upon petroleum prices for the previous quarter.
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
UNITED STATES The Company, as a lessee and operator of natural gas and oil properties, is subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States that provide for restriction and prohibition on releases or emissions of various substances produced in association with certain oil and gas industry operations and can affect the location of wells and facilities and the extent to which exploration and development is permitted. In addition, legislation requires that well and facility sites and access be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of federal or state authorities, as applicable. These laws and regulations may, among other things, impose liability and penalties on the lessee for the cost of pollution cleanup resulting from operations, subject the lessee to liability for pollution
damages, require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas, and impose restrictions on the injection of liquids into subsurface aquifers that may contaminate ground water.
The Company has made, and will continue to make, expenditures in its efforts to comply with environmental regulations. The Company believes it is in compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations in effect and that continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on the Company. Nevertheless, changes in existing environmental laws or the adoption of new environmental laws could have a potential to adversely affect the Company's operations. In connection with the Company's acquisition of BFC, environmental assessments were performed. No material noncompliance or clean-up liabilities requiring action were discovered. However, environmental assessments were performed on only a percentage of the Company's properties according to the value of the properties established at the time of acquisition. The Company believes that it is reasonably likely that the trend in environmental legislation and regulation will continue toward stricter standards. No assurance can be given as to future capital expenditures which may be required for compliance with prospective environmental regulations.
CANADA In Canada, the oil and natural gas industry is currently subject to environmental regulations pursuant to provincial and federal legislation. Environmental legislation provides for restrictions on releases or emissions of various substances produced or utilized in association with certain oil and gas industry operations. In addition, legislation requires that well and facility sites be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of provincial authorities. A breach of such regulations may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the suspension of operations and potential civil liability. The Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act imposes environmental standards and requires compliance with various legislative criteria including reporting and monitoring in Alberta. The Alberta Energy and Utility Board, pursuant to its governing legislation, also plays a role with respect to the regulation of environmental impacts of oil and gas activities.
OPERATING HAZARDS
The oil and gas industry involves a variety of operating risks including the risk of fire, explosion, blow-outs, pipe failure, casing collapse, abnormally pressured formations, and environmental hazards such as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures and discharge of toxic substances. The occurrence of any of these events might result in substantial losses to the Company due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and natural resources and investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. The Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, potential risks. There can be no assurance that any such insurance that is obtained will be adequate to cover all losses or exposure for liability. Furthermore, the Company cannot predict whether such insurance will continue to be available at premium levels that justify its purchase.
ITEM 3.