Item 2. Properties
Mining Properties The table below provides a summary of the most significant mining properties in which the Company has an interest. More detailed information regarding each of these properties is provided in the text that follows:
The San Sebastian Gold Mine
General Location and Accessibility
The SSGM is situated on a mountainous tract of land consisting of approximately 1,470 acres of explored and unexplored mining prospects. The SSGM is located approximately two and one-half miles off of the Pan American Highway, northwest of the city of Santa Rosa de Lima in the Department of La Union, El Salvador. The tract is typical of the numerous volcanic mountains of the coast range of southeastern El Salvador. The topography is mountainous with elevations ranging from 300 to 1,500 feet above sea level. The mountain slopes are steep, the gulches are well defined, and the drainage is excellent.
There is good roadway access to the SSGM site. Most of the reconstruction in 1999 of the Pan American Highway from two lanes to four lanes (from the city of San Salvador to the Honduran border) has been recently completed. The city of Santa Rosa de Lima (approximately three miles from the SSGM) is one of the largest cities in the Eastern Zone. The SSGM is approximately 30 miles from the city of San Miguel, which is El Salvador's second largest city, and approximately 108 miles southeast of El Salvador's capital city, San Salvador. SSGM is also approximately 26 miles from the city of La Union which has port and railroad facilities. Major United States' commercial airlines provide daily scheduled flights to the Comalapa Airport which is located on the outskirts of the city of San Salvador.
SSGM Reserves and Operation
Statistical production and financial data for the San Sebastian Gold Mine (SSGM) are shown on the following table:
(1) As calculated under The Gold Institute's Production Cost Standard, includes the depreciation expense of $320,491 or $163.35 an ounce for 2000 and $338,797 or $126.23 an ounce for 1999.
(2) Excludes exploration and development drilling.
(3) Based on nine months of production.
(4) The estimated recoverable ounces of gold by processing: SCMP, 85% to 95%; heap leach, 65% to 70%.
The tailings, dump material, and stope fill at the SSGM are the by-products of past mining operations. The tailings are the residue of higher grade ore once milled and processed to recover the then economically feasible fraction of gold present in the material. Most of the tailings, except the lower grade, have been processed. The dump material is actually gold ore which has been mined in the search for higher grades of gold ore and piled to the side of past excavations as it was considered at that time to be too low of a grade of ore to process economically; however, it was reserved for future processing. The stope fill that is available was in the past considered to be too low of a grade of ore to process economically, therefore it was primarily used to fill the voids in the underground workings to accommodate the extraction of gold ore in the past SSGM mining activities. Virgin gold ore, as the term is used in this report, is gold ore which is on the surface and readily available for processing; it also includes the undeveloped underground gold ore.
Virgin gold ore at the SSGM represents the majority of the material (14.4 million tons, including the dump waste material) in the Company's reserves. The Company plans to use an open-pit mining method and will truck the lower grade gold ore to one or more heap-leaching pads developed at the SSGM site. The use of open-pit mining and heap-leaching techniques will enable the Company to process a higher volume of gold ore than can be processed at the SCMP or through underground operations used by the Company and others in the past. The Company plans to continue to operate the SCMP after developing a leach-pad operation at the SSGM, using the facility to process the higher grade ore it encounters in the course of mining at the SSGM. The milling operation at the SCMP is expected to return a higher rate of gold recovery than can be expected from heap-leaching techniques.
The 960,000 tons of dump material present at the SSGM site has grades ranging from 0.082 to 0.178 ounces of gold per ton and it now is combined with the virgin ore. An analysis of the underground stope fill material was made by the Company's consulting geologist who has confirmed that about seven percent of the stope fill had been removed and processed during the 1973-1978 period. The grade of the stope fill averages 0.34 ounces of gold per ton. It is estimated that there are about one million tons available for SCMP treatment from the underground operations. It is necessary to remove the material which has caved in the adits to reach the stope fill areas, or it will be encountered in the open-pit operations.
All residue from the contemplated operations will be stockpiled for potential future processing dependent upon the price of gold, improvements in technology, and the depletion of higher grade material.
Misanse Mining Lease
The Company (through the Comseb Joint Venture) leases the SSGM from Mineral San Sebastian, S.A. de C.V. ("Misanse"), an El Salvadoran corporation. The Company owns 52% of the total of Misanse's issued and outstanding shares. The balance of the shares are owned by about 100 El Salvador, Central American and United States' citizens. (Reference is made to Note 7 of the financial statements for related party interests.)
On July 28, 1975, an amended lease agreement between Misanse as lessor and Sanseb as tenant was executed by the parties giving the tenant all the possessions and mining rights that pertain to the SSGM as well as other claims that may already have or could be claimed in the future within the 1,470 acre plat of land encompassing the SSGM. The lease was further amended to run concurrently with the concession described herein and may be extended for one or more equal periods by the tenant as long as the tenant has paid the rent and has complied with other obligations under the lease and the concession. The lease further provides that the tenant will pay rent to equal five percent of the gross gold production revenues obtained from the leased SSGM and further commits itself to maintain production taking into consideration market, political, and other conditions. In no case will the rent be less than 1,800 colones per month (approximately $206 per month at the current rate of exchange). The lease further provides that, in the event the lessor wishes to sell the property, it must first give preference to the Company; the lease further provides that the tenant must give preference to employ its former mining employees and Misanse shareholders.
The lease is freely assignable by the Joint Venture without notice to Misanse. The lease may also be cancelled by the Joint Venture on thirty days' notice to Misanse and thereafter all legal obligations thereunder shall cease.
Misanse Mineral Concession-Government of El Salvador
In El Salvador, the rights to minerals are vested with the government. Mineral rights are granted by the government through concessions or licenses.
On January 27, 1987, the Government granted a right to the SSGM mining concession ("concession") to Misanse which was subject to the performance of the El Salvador Mining Law requirements. These rights were simultaneously assigned to the Joint Venture.
On July 23, 1987, the Government of El Salvador delivered and granted to Misanse, possession of the mining concession. This is the right to extract and export minerals for a term of 25 years (plus a 25-year renewal option) beginning on the first day of production from the real estate which encompasses the SSGM owned by Misanse. Misanse assigned this concession to the Joint Venture.
During February 1996, and effective 120 days thereafter, the Government of El Salvador adopted a revised Mining Law. This law grants longer exploration and exploitation terms. It also contains a provision that three percent of the gold receipts will be paid to the Government of El Salvador and an additional one percent is to be paid to the municipality where the mine is located.
The concession, or the right to mine gold, is subject to cancellation by the Government of El Salvador if there is an abandonment of the property such as if there is no demonstration that the concession holder intends to carry out exploration, exploitation, or development of the property in good faith during a six-month period after the concession is granted or if the work of exploration, exploitation or development is suspended for six months or if the exploration, exploitation or development is reduced to an extent that the effort used cannot be regarded as being reasonable in relation to the importance and resources of the mining property.
In the event of public disaster or disturbance of the public order, all mines in the given locality shall be regarded as being in exploration, exploitation or development without the necessity of any special formality. Such event did occur when, on November 11, 1989, the guerrillas attempted to seize the Country of El Salvador. On January 16, 1992, a peace accord and cease-fire agreement was entered into by the Government of El Salvador and its opposition. The transition from war to peace was effected without any serious occurrences and final peace was declared on December 15, 1992, with a three-year period to comply with the terms of the peace pact.
The work of a concession may be suspended by permission of a competent authority for a reasonable period not to exceed one year. An exception would be in case of acts of God or force majeure in which case the period may be extended successively as long as such reasons exist.
A concession may be fortified for lack of security measure, or if its condition would endanger the lives of workers, or for failure to comply with provisions of the Mining Code or other provisions enacted with respect to any aspect of exploitation in the mining industry, unless corrected within a reasonable period.
The Complimentary Mining Law states that, in addition to the cases mentioned in the El Salvador Mining Code, abandonment of the mine will be presumed if after a significant reduction or exhaustion of the veins, beds, or other formation in exploitation, three months is allowed to pass without adequate efforts either to exploit other deposits existing in the concession or to discover new deposits suitable for exploitation.
A concession may be granted for an unlimited time, as long as the concession holder complies with the conditions imposed by law. The Joint Venture's concession is for a period of twenty-five years, beginning on the first day of production, and with a right to extend it for an additional twenty-five years.
In addition, the El Salvador Constitution contains certain provisions which, although not referring specifically to mining, are applicable thereto. As an example, Article 138 prohibits confiscation of property.
SSGM Current Status
The Company, through its Joint Venture is conducting the following activities: It is in the exploration, development and pre-production mining stage which consists of completing its survey, mapping, site preparation, infrastructure, construction, planning, and in the performance of the auxiliary work needed to resume gold production at the SSGM site. Presently, the Company is seeking funding to purchase equipment, to purchase inventory, and to use for working capital for its on-site proposed open-pit, heap-leaching operation. In addition, the Company was engaged in the exploration and development of the peripheral area (including diamond core drilling) surrounding the main body of gold ore in order to increase its gold ore reserves.
The Company's main objective and plan, through the Joint Venture, is to operate a moderate tonnage, low-grade, open-pit, heap-leaching operation to produce gold on its SSGM site. Dependent on the funding, the grade of ore, and the tonnage processed, it anticipates producing more than 40,000 ounces of gold from its open-pit, heap-leaching operation during the first twelve full operating months and then gradually increasing the annual production of gold to 113,000 ounces.
Proposed SSGM Open-Pit, Heap-Leaching Operation
The Joint Venture has placed the SCMP into a curbed production operation. It now intends to obtain a sum of $8 million or more to commence an open-pit, heap-leaching operation at the SSGM site. An additional $7 million or more is estimated to be required for the crushing system, plant, and mining equipment if the Joint Venture were unable to lease this equipment. After these funds are obtained, the Joint Venture intends to start processing gold ore from its open pit at a production level of 2,000 tons per day. During the second year, the production level plans are to expand production to 3,000 tons per day (the funds for this expansion could be generated from profits). An increase to process 4,000 tons of gold ore per day would take place during the third year and another expansion to process 6,000 tons per day would take place at the beginning of the fifth year; all funds for this expansion should be available through a combination of earned profits, borrowings, equity sales, or other creative sources. With the anticipated production volume, there is more than an eight-year supply of gold ore as it is believed that a substantial amount of gold ore can be proven. The Company's geologists have defined a body of ore consisting of 138 million tons of gold ore at a grade of 0.025 ounces of gold per ton. This reflects a potential of 3.4 million ounces of gold and about 400,000 ounces of silver from this planned open-pit, heap-leaching operation. It would take about 64 years to process this body of gold ore at a production capacity of 6,000 tons per day.
SSGM Ownership of the Property
The San Sebastian Gold Mine real estate consisting of approximately 1,470 acres, is owned by Misanse, a Salvadoran corporation. The Company owns 52% of Misanse common shares that are issued and outstanding.
Environmental Matters
Since the Government of El Salvador has established a new Mining Law effective February 1996, its exploration, development, and production programs are subject to environmental protection. The El Salvador Ministry of Environment has jurisdiction over environmental control.
Environmental regulations add to the cost and time needed to bring new mines or mills into production and add to operating and closure costs for mines already in operation. As the Company places more mines into production, the costs associated with regulatory compliance can be expected to increase. Such costs are a normal cost of doing business in the mining industry, and may require significant capital and operating expenditures in the future. The Company cannot accurately predict or estimate the impact of any future laws or regulations developed in El Salvador that would affect the Company's operations.
All operations by the Company involving the exploration or the production of minerals are subject to existing laws and regulations relating to exploration procedures, safety precautions, employee health and safety, air quality standards, pollution of water sources, waste materials, odor, noise, dust and other environmental protection requirements adopted by the El Salvador governmental authorities. The Company is required to prepare and present to such authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration or production of minerals may have upon the environment. The requirements imposed by any such authorities may be costly, time consuming and may delay operations. Future legislation and regulations designed to protect the environment, as well as future interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may require substantial increases in equipment and operating costs to the Company and delays, interruptions, or a termination of operations. The Company cannot accurately predict or estimate the impact of any such future laws or regulations, or future interpretations of existing laws and regulations, on its operations.
The Company has submitted an environmental impact study prepared by an independent El Salvadoran consultant to the El Salvador Minister of Environment. It is in the process of updating its environmental impact study.
San Felipe-El Potosi Mine ("Potosi") and its extension the El Capulin Mine ("El Capulin")
Potosi Location
The Joint Venture has commenced an exploration program on the Potosi property which is located approximately 18 miles northwest of the city of San Miguel, the second largest city in the Republic of El Salvador, Central America, on a paved road 15 miles to the city of Chapalteque and then west three miles on a gravel road to the city of Potosi. The historical records indicate that the potential of developing a gold mine is above average.
Potosi Historical Information
Historical records evidence that exploration and production of gold took place in 1899 and that Potosi was worked intermittently from 1906 through 1952. The main production period in six levels was from 1938 through 1952 at a rate of 35 to 50 tons per day. Production data avouch that 30,000 ounces of gold were produced from 1945 through 1952 after which the mine became dormant. During this time a curbed underground exploration program confirmed that the gold ore reserves were of commercial value. The gold assays from some of the former drill hole samples on the southern extension of the north-south portion of this property showed a grade of 0.10 to 0.35 ounces of gold per ton of ore.
Potosi Tailings' Reserve
Twenty-four test pit hole excavations have been plotted and drilled on this four-acre site of tailings. The depth to the bottom of the tailings' pile varied from 7.00 to 10.2 meters (23 to 34 vertical feet) and a total of 137.6 meters (454 feet) of test pit hole excavations were completed. The 573 fire assay samples (tailings) indicated an average grade of gold per ounce of 0.06. The remaining 168,825 tons available multiplied by the average grade of 0.06 should contain 10,130 ounces of gold. The 10,130 ounces of gold multiplied by a 70% recovery should yield about 7,091 ounces of gold.
Potosi and El Capulin Exploration Undertakings
Since October 25, 1993, and until it suspended its program during 1999, Comseb had a full-time crew, ranging from 25 to 30 employees, conducting an exploration program consisting of surveys, channel trenching, adit openings, test pit holes, excavation and drilling of the tailings to determine its gold content.
A total of 2,574 meters (8,494 feet) of channel trenching was excavated with a grade ranging from 0.01 to 0.05 ounces of gold per ton. A total of 806 meters (2,658 feet) of adits has been restored for entry into the old workings. A total of 3,500 fire assay samples were completed with the results encouraging a drilling program.
Potosi Exploration Concession
The exploration concession application was filed on September 6, 1993, with the Department of Energy, Mines and Hydrocarbons, a division of the El Salvador's Minister of Economy's office, by the owners of the real estate, the Cooperative San Felipe-El Potosi. An application for an exploration concession was filed on May 8, 1997 in order to comply with the current mining regulations adopted by the Government of El Salvador in February 1996. The concession consists of approximately 6,100 acres. While this concession application is pending, it precludes others from performing exploration on this site. Until this issue is resolved, Comseb's exploration of the El Potosi site has been temporarily suspended.
Potosi Lease Agreement
The Joint Venture entered into a lease agreement with the San Felipe Potosi Cooperative ("Cooperative") of the city of Potosi, El Salvador on July 6, 1993, to lease the real estate for a period of 30 years and with an option to renew the lease for an additional 25 years, for the purpose of mining and extracting minerals.
Environmental Matters
Reference is made to San Sebastian Gold Mine "Environmental Matters." The same information applies except that at this time no environmental impact study has been conducted at San Felipe-El Potosi or the El Capulin mines.
Hormiguero Mine ("Hormiguero")
Hormiguero Location
The Hormiguero is located approximately five miles southeast from the SCMP off of the Pan American Highway in the Departments of San Miguel and Morazan, Comacaran Jurisdiction, in the Republic of El Salvador, Central America. The Joint Venture plans to survey, map, plat, plan and develop an exploration program.
Hormiguero Current Status
The Joint Venture is planning to develop an exploration program on the 5,000 acre site. An application for exploration has been filed on September 6, 1993 with the Department of Energy, Mines and Hydrocarbons, a division of the El Salvador Minister of Economy's office. In order to comply with the El Salvadoran Mining Law adopted during February 1996, an exploration application was filed on April 21, 1997. The Joint Venture has temporarily suspended all of its activities until such time as the question of a concession/license will be resolved.
Modesto Mine
Modesto Mine Location
The Modesto Mine is located due north of the town of El Paisnal, approximately 19 miles north of the capital city, San Salvador, in the Republic of El Salvador, Central America.
Modesto Mine Present Status
On or about September 2, 1993, the Joint Venture through one of its employees, filed an application with the El Salvador Minister of Economy, Department of Energy, Mines and Hydrocarbons to explore the 4,000 hectares (9,800 acres) of property known as the Modesto Mine. The application, together with the consent to explore this area from the property owners owning more than 25% of total area, has been submitted to the El Salvador Director of Energy, Mines and Hydrocarbons. Also, the Joint Venture had submitted its original plan to this governmental agency on January 24, 1994, outlining its exploration program. In order to comply with the current mining regulations adopted by the Government of El Salvador during February 1996, the Joint Venture filed an exploration concession application on April 21, 1997.
After completing the necessary surveying, mapping and planning, the Joint Venture proceeded to clean and trench the surface and adit vein exposure. Since August 1993, 3,084 metric feet of surface channel trenching (10,177 feet) and 866 meters (2,858 feet) of adit cleaning were completed. In addition, four inclines have been excavated for entry. A total of 4,027 fire assay samples were performed revealing an average grade of 0.035 ounces per ton. The Joint Venture suspended its exploration during July 1997 as the Government of El Salvador awarded the concession of the property to another mining company. The Company believes that it owns the key property, therefore permission from the Company will be required before entry can be made by others. The Joint Venture, upon advice of legal counsel, intends to file an application for a concession (license) on the property it owns.
Environmental Matters
Reference is made to San Sebastian Gold Mine "Environmental Matters." The same information applies except that no environmental impact study is being conducted at Modesto at this time.
Montemayor Mine ("Montemayor")
Montemayor Location/Ownership
The Joint Venture has obtained leases for more than 175 acres of the surface rights from a number of property owners which permit the Joint Venture to enter their property for the purpose of exploring, exploiting and developing the property and then, if feasible, to mine and extract minerals from this property. The term of this permission is for an infinite period. The Company believes that this real estate contains the "heart" of the mine. Montemayor is located about 14 miles northeast of the SCMP, six miles northwest of the SSGM and about two and one-half miles east of the city of San Francisco Gotera in the Department of Morazan, Republic of El Salvador. Historical records evidence that the potential for the Montemayor to become an exploration and development gold-producing prospect is good.
On April 22, 1997, a current exploration concession was filed with the El Salvador Minister of Economy's office in order to comply with the El Salvadoran Mining Law adopted in February 1996. During July 1997, the Minister of Economy awarded the concession to others. Since the Joint Venture has leases on the surface of key real estate, it cannot be forced to allow others to operate a mine on this key part of the property. The Joint Venture, upon advice of its legal counsel, intends to file an application for a concession (license) on the property it leases.
Environmental Matters
Reference is made to San Sebastian Gold Mine "Environmental Matters." The same information applies except that no environmental impact study is being conducted at Montemayor at this time.
San Cristobal Mill and Plant ("SCMP") Recovery and Processing System
SCMP Location
SCMP is located near the city of El Divisadero (bordering the Pan American Highway), and is approximately 13 miles east of the city of San Miguel, the second largest city in the Republic of El Salvador, Central America.
SCMP Lease Agreement
Although the Joint Venture owns the mill, plant and related equipment, it does not own the land and certain buildings. On November 12, 1993, the Joint Venture entered into an agreement with Corsain to lease approximately 166 acres of land and the buildings for a period of ten years. The annual rental charge was U.S. $11,500, payable in advance, and was subject to annual increases based on the United States' percentage rate of inflation. The annual rental, including inflation charges, increased to $16,331 beginning on November 1, 2000. Also as agreed, an $11,500 security deposit was required and this deposit is subject to an annual increase based on the U.S. inflation rate. The premises are strategically located to process gold ore from the other mining prospects that are in the exploration stage.
SCMP Mill and Plant Process Description
Instead of utilizing the existing recovery system on the site on the acquisition date, the Joint Venture's engineers have designed a carbon-in-leach (CIL) process.
On February 23, 1993, the Company, on behalf of the Joint Venture acquired SCMP, a precious metals' cyanide leaching mill and plant rated with a capacity of processing 200 tons per day which utilized the following unit operations: crushing, grinding, thickening, agitated leaching, counter current decantation of leach solution, recovery of precious metals by zinc precipitation (Merrill-Crowe), and direct smelting of precipitates to produce precious metals as dore and tailings' disposal.
The Company's engineers recommended that this processing system be retrofitted and converted to process the SSGM tailings by a cyanidation carbon-in-leach (CIL) system to recover the residual cyanide soluble precious metals. The first pouring of gold on a test basis took place on March 31, 1995. The SCMP was operated on a "start-up and build-up" to a gradual full capacity system during this trial and modification period.
Current Status
The start-up, testing and adjustment stage of processing the remaining SSGM tailings via trucking this ore to the SCMP has continued and the Joint Venture is still in its preliminary stage of producing gold. The SCMP is being designed to process up to 500 tons of virgin ore per day. The SCMP operations were suspended as of December 31, 1999, as the plant and equipment required a major overhaul in order to place it in operating condition.
SCMP Project Operating Plan
Current and Anticipated Production Schedule
Preproduction development, consisting primarily of expansive road and site improvements to the mine and mill sites, mill equipment modifications and the development and hauling of virgin ore has taken place during the past years. Initial production was from the SSGM tailings. Since the SSGM's tailings' resource is nearly exhausted, virgin gold ore is excavated from the SSGM surface and hauled to the SCMP site.
The other sources of gold ore from the SSGM to be used at the SCMP operation will be obtained from the stope fill or higher grade gold ore after obtaining access via the underground workings or from the surface of the main ore body. This gold ore will have to be crushed and pulverized, which increases the cost, but is expected to yield a 90% or higher recovery. The income, dependent on the market price of gold from the higher grade and recovery of gold ore, is expected to be substantially more than the cost involved, providing that the world gold market price does not continue to decline to a level of unprofitability.
The virgin ore and/or tailings are referred to herein as "gold ore." The gold ore from the SSGM open-pit is loaded onto 20-25 ton dump trucks for transport to the SCMP. Trucks then haul the gold ore on the Pan American Highway approximately 15 miles from the SSGM. Mine employees are responsible for the mining activities including the determination of areas to be excavated, trucking and loading operations, head sampling and sample analysis.
The gold ore is received at the SCMP where it is weighed, logged, and sampled. Weighing is performed utilizing a conveyor belt scale and/or a truck scale located on the SCMP site. The excess gold ore is then unloaded at the SCMP site and stockpiled in an area which was developed to allow storage of more than 50,000 tons.
SCMP Personnel
The SCMP employees, during this past year's start-up testing period (including its own trained security personnel) total about 144 persons. The SCMP was operated 24 hours per day, seven days per week and 52 weeks per year. During the fourth quarter of this fiscal year, the Joint Venture has suspended the SCMP's operations and placed the facilities on a care and maintenance status until such time as the Company has sufficient funds to overhaul and expand this mill and plant.
Environmental Matters
Reference is made to San Sebastian Gold Mine "Environmental Matters." The same information applies.
Comseb Laboratories (Lab)
The Joint Venture has two laboratories: one located at the SCMP facilities and the other on real estate owned by the Company near the SSGM site. A total of 78,441 samples of fire assays have been completed through March 31, 2001. This total does not include the assays that were performed for production purposes.
Corporate Headquarters
The Company leases approximately 4,032 square feet of office space for its corporate headquarters on the second floor of the building known as the General Building located at 6001 North 91st Street, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, at a monthly rental charge of $2,789 on a month-to-month basis. The lessor is General Lumber & Supply Co., Inc. ("General Lumber"), a Wisconsin corporation. The Company's President, Edward L. Machulak owns 55% of the common stock of General Lumber. Edward L. Machulak disclaims any interest in the balance of General Lumber common stock which is owned by two of Mr. Machulak's brothers, his wife, and a trust for the benefit of his children. In addition, the Company shares proportionately any increase in real property taxes and any increase in general fire and extended coverage insurance on the property. In lieu of cash payment, the Lessor has agreed to apply the monthly rental payments owed to the secured open-ended, on-demand promissory note(s) due to it.
Item 3.