ITEM 2. PROPERTIES - -------------------
MINING PROPERTIES - -----------------
The table below provides a summary of the most significant mining properties in which the Company has an interest. More detailed information regarding each of these properties is provided in the text that follows:
Commerce Group Corp./San Sebastian Gold Mines, Inc. Joint Venture Properties all located in the Republic of El Salvador, Central America
Amount Date of Funds Interest Cost to Make Date Property Nature of was of Property Mine will be Description Interest Acquired Interest Operational Operational ----------- -------- --------- -------- ----------- ------------ 1. San Sebastian Mineral 1968 5% of the This is In operation Gold Mine concession gross dependent on a curbed located two consisting precious on the production and one-half of 100% metal scale of basis. miles north- ownership proceeds production west of the of the or $206 that city of Santa precious a month management Rosa de Lima metals whichever decides to and the Pan extracted is higher. perform. American from this mine. The amount Highway. of invest- ment could be from $5 million to $100 million.
2. San Felipe- Application 07/06/93 5% of the Undeter- Undetermined. El Potosi/ pending for gross mined until Capulin Mine mineral precious a preliminary located near concession metal drilling the city of for 100% proceeds. program is Potosi, 18 ownership completed; miles north- of the precious estimated west of the metals extracted cost of city of San from this mine. drilling is Miguel. $2 million.
3. Hormiguero Ownership of 09/93 The sur- Undeter- Undetermined. Mine located the tailings. face use mined until five miles of land a preliminary southeast (rent) is drilling program of the San to be is completed; Cristobal negotiated. estimated cost Mill and of drilling is Plant near $2 million. the city Mine surface of Comacaron. channel trench- ing and adit cleaning should be completed to determine drilling cost.
4. Modesto Mine Application 09/93 It appears Undeter- Undetermined. located near is to be as if this mined until the city of submitted will be an a prelimi- Paisnal and for a mineral underground nary drilling about 19 miles concession on operation program is north of San the real estate except in completed; Salvador, the owned by the the estimated capital city. Company to own Company- cost of 100% of the owned land. drilling is precious metals Therefore, $2 million. extracted from no cost for the real estate interest. owned by the Company.
5. Montemayor Application 07/95 It appears Undeter- Undetermined. Mine located is to be submitted that this mined until about 14 miles for a mineral will be an a prelimi- northeast of concession on underground nary drilling SCMP and about the land leased mine, program is six miles by the Company therefore completed; northwest of to own 100% of current estimated SSGM. the precious leases will cost of metals extracted have to be drilling is from the areas renegotia- $2 million. the Company ted and ex- leases. tended.
6. San Cristobal Mill and Equip- Equipment To expand Curbed pro- Mill and Plant ment purchased the plant, duction Plant located owned by 02/23/93 and exten- including commenced off the Pan Joint and sive retro- a crush- March 1995, American Venture. there- fitting was ing system expansion Highway west The real after and to a capa- program in of the city estate is Lease continues city of progress. of El owned by 11/12/93 to be per- 400 tons Divisadero. an agency formed. per day; an of the Through estimated Govern- 03/31/99, sum of up ment of a total of to $3 El $5,094,607 million Salvador. has been may be invested required, in this all plant and dependent equipment. whether new Depreciated or used value is equipment $3,476,341. will be purchased.
THE SAN SEBASTIAN GOLD MINE - ---------------------------
GENERAL LOCATION AND ACCESSIBILITY
The SSGM is situated on a mountainous tract of land consisting of approximately 1,470 acres of explored and unexplored mining prospects. The SSGM is located approximately two and one-half miles off of the Pan American Highway, northwest of the city of Santa Rosa de Lima in the Department of La Union, El Salvador. The tract is typical of the numerous volcanic mountains of the coast range of southeastern El Salvador. The topography is mountainous with elevations ranging from 300 to 1,500 feet above sea level. The mountain slopes are steep, the gulches are well defined, and the drainage is excellent.
There is good roadway access to the SSGM site. Reconstruction of the Pan American Highway from two lanes to four lanes (from the city of San Miguel to the Honduran border) has been recently completed. The city of Santa Rosa de Lima (approximately three miles from the SSGM) is one of the largest cities in the Eastern Zone. The SSGM is approximately 30 miles from the city of San Miguel, which is El Salvador's second largest city, and approximately 108 miles southeast of El Salvador's capital city, San Salvador. SSGM is also approximately 26 miles from the city of La Union which has port and railroad facilities. Major United States' commercial airlines provide daily scheduled flights to the Comalapa Airport which is located on the outskirts of the city of San Salvador. An airline commuter service provides air flights to the cities of Santa Rosa de Lima, San Miguel, and La Union as well as other cities throughout El Salvador.
SSGM RESERVES AND OPERATION
Statistical production and financial data for the San Sebastian Gold Mine (SSGM) are shown on the following table:
San Sebastian Gold Mine (SSGM) Operation
03/31/99 03/31/98 03/31/97 -------- -------- -------- PRODUCTION Tons ore mined and processed 51,618 59,596 74,350 Gold grade of ore (oz./ton) .08 0.087 0.080 Strip ratio (tons waste/tons ore) N/A N/A N/A Gold production (oz.) 2,684 3,927 2,601(1) Silver production (oz.) 836 1,416 596 Recoverable gold inventory (oz.) 259 259 259
FINANCIAL Ounces of gold sold 2,684 3,667 2,601 Average gold price realized $ 293 $ 315 $ 368 Revenue from mine operations $ 785,526 $1,234,443 $ 956,261 Cash operating cost per ore ton mined $ 10.27 $ 14.72 N/A Cash operating cost per ounce $ 197.62 $ 198.24 N/A Total production cost per ounce (2) $ 350.19 $ 276.43 N/A Operating earnings (loss) (3) $ (44,688) $ 117,699 N/A Capital expenditures in mining projects (3) $2,269,928 $3,402,089 $3,080,901
MINABLE RESERVES (03/31/99) Contained Average Gold Tons Grade Ounces(4) ---------- ------- ---------- Ore - virgin, dump waste and tailings 14,420,268 0.081 1,168,042 Stope fill (estimated) 1,000,000 0.340 340,000 ---------- --------- Totals 15,420,268 1,508,042
(1) Proceeds from 1997 gold sales were credited against equipment purchases and development costs; no detailed costs were maintained on the mining operation.
(2) As calculated under The Gold Institute's Production Cost Standard, includes the depreciation expense of $338,797 or $126.23 an ounce for 1999 and $208,254 or $53.04 an ounce for 1998.
(3) Excludes exploration and development drilling.
(4) The estimated recoverable ounces of gold by processing: SCMP, 88%; heap leach, 60%.
The tailings, dump material, and stope fill at the SSGM are the by-products of past mining operations. The tailings are the residue of higher grade ore once milled and processed to recover the then economically feasible fraction of gold present in the material. Most of the tailings, except the lower grade, have been processed. The dump material is actually gold ore which has been mined in the search for higher grades of gold ore and piled to the side of past excavations as it was considered at that time to be too low of a grade of ore to process economically; however, it was reserved for future processing. The stope fill also was considered to be too low of a grade of ore to process economically, therefore it was primarily used to fill the voids in the underground workings of the past SSGM mining activities. Virgin gold ore, as the term is used in this report, is gold ore which is on the surface and readily available for processing; it also includes the undeveloped underground gold ore.
Virgin gold ore at the SSGM represents the majority of the material (14.4 million tons, including the dump waste material) in the Company's reserves. The Company plans to use an open-pit mining method and will truck the lower grade gold ore to one or more heap-leaching pads developed at the SSGM site. The use of open-pit mining and heap-leaching techniques will enable the Company to process a higher volume of gold ore than can be processed at the SCMP or through underground operations used by the Company and others in the past. The Company plans to continue to operate the SCMP after developing a leach-pad operation at the SSGM, using the facility to process the higher grade ore it encounters in the course of mining at the SSGM. The milling operation at the SCMP is expected to return a higher rate of gold recovery than can be expected from heap-leaching techniques.
The 960,000 tons of dump material present at the SSGM site has grades ranging from 0.082 to 0.178 ounces of gold per ton and it now is combined with the virgin ore. An analysis of the underground stope fill material was made by the Company's consulting geologist who has confirmed that about seven percent of the stope fill had been removed and processed during the 1973-1978 period. The grade of the stope fill averages 0.34 ounces of gold per ton. It is estimated that there are about one million tons available for SCMP treatment from the underground operations. It is necessary to remove the material which has caved in the adits to reach the stope fill areas.
All residue from the contemplated operations will be stockpiled for potential future processing dependent upon the price of gold, improvements in technology, and the depletion of better grading material.
MISANSE MINING LEASE
The Company (through the Comseb Joint Venture) leases the SSGM from Mineral San Sebastian, S.A. de C.V. ("Misanse"), an El Salvadoran corporation. The Company owns 52% of the total of Misanse's issued and outstanding shares. The balance of the shares are owned by about 100 El Salvador, Central American and United States' citizens. (Reference is made to Note 7 of the financial statements for related party interests.)
On July 28, 1975, an amended lease agreement between Misanse as lessor and Sanseb as tenant was executed by the parties giving the tenant all the possessions and mining rights that pertain to the SSGM as well as other claims that may already have or could be claimed in the future within the 1,470 acre plat of land encompassing the SSGM. The lease was further amended to run concurrently with the concession described herein and may be extended for one or more equal periods by the tenant as long as the tenant has paid the rent and has complied with other obligations under the lease and the concession. The lease further provides that the tenant will pay rent to equal five percent of the gross gold production revenues obtained from the leased SSGM and further commits itself to maintain production taking into consideration market, political, and other conditions. In no case will the rent be less than 1,800 colones per month (approximately $206 per month at the current rate of exchange). The lease further provides that, in the event the lessor wishes to sell the property, it must first give preference to the tenant; the lease further provides that the tenant must give preference to employ its former mining employees and Misanse shareholders.
The lease is freely assignable by the Joint Venture without notice to Misanse. The lease may also be cancelled by the Joint Venture on thirty days' notice to Misanse and thereafter all legal obligations thereunder shall cease.
In the event that new extended bodies of ore are discovered, Misanse may be required to make proper claim for them through the Ministry of Economy of El Salvador's Department of Energy, Mines and Hydrocarbons, and include such claims in the present lease. Such addition to the lease is required to be made without additional rental payment, except that the expenses for procuring the concession shall be borne by the Joint Venture.
MISANSE MINERAL CONCESSION-GOVERNMENT OF EL SALVADOR
In El Salvador, the rights to minerals are vested with the government. Mineral rights are granted by the government through concessions or licenses.
On January 27, 1987, the Government granted a right to the SSGM mining concession ("concession") to Misanse which was subject to the performance of the El Salvador Mining Law requirements. These rights were simultaneously assigned to the Joint Venture.
On July 23, 1987, the Government of El Salvador delivered and granted to Misanse, possession of the mining concession. This is the right to extract and export minerals for a term of 25 years (plus a 25-year renewal option) beginning on the first day of production from the real estate which encompasses the SSGM owned by Misanse. Misanse assigned this concession to the Joint Venture.
During February 1996, and effective 120 days thereafter, the Government of El Salvador adopted a revised Mining Law. This law grants longer exploration and exploitation terms. It also contains a provision that three percent of the gold receipts will be paid to the Government of El Salvador and an additional one percent is to be paid to the municipality where the mine is located.
The concession, or the right to mine gold, is subject to cancellation by the Government of El Salvador if there is an abandonment of the property such as if there is no demonstration that the concession holder intends to carry out exploration, exploitation, or development of the property in good faith during a six-month period after the concession is granted or if the work of exploration, exploitation or development is suspended for six months or if the exploration, exploitation or development is reduced to an extent that the effort used cannot be regarded as being reasonable in relation to the importance and resources of the mining property.
In the event of public disaster or disturbance of the public order, all mines in the given locality shall be regarded as being in exploration, exploitation or development without the necessity of any special formality. Such event did occur when, on November 11, 1989, the guerrillas attempted to seize the Country of El Salvador. On January 16, 1992, a peace accord and cease-fire agreement was entered into by the Government of El Salvador and its opposition. The transition from war to peace was effected without any serious occurrences and final peace was declared on December 15, 1992, with a three-year period to comply with the terms of the peace pact.
The work of a concession may be suspended by permission of a competent authority for a reasonable period not to exceed one year. An exception would be in case of acts of God or force majeure in which case the period may be extended successively as long as such reasons exist.
A concession may be fortified for lack of security measure, or if its condition would endanger the lives of workers, or for failure to comply with provisions of the Mining Code or other provisions enacted with respect to any aspect of exploitation in the mining industry, unless corrected within a reasonable period.
The Complimentary Mining Law states that, in addition to the cases mentioned in the El Salvador Mining Code, abandonment of the mine will be presumed if after a significant reduction or exhaustion of the veins, beds, or other formation in exploitation, three months is allowed to pass without adequate efforts either to exploit other deposits existing in the concession or to discover new deposits suitable for exploitation.
A concession may be granted for an unlimited time, as long as the concession holder complies with the conditions imposed by law. The Joint Venture's concession is for a period of twenty-five years, beginning on the first day of production, and with a right to extend it for an additional twenty-five years.
In addition, the El Salvador Constitution contains certain provisions which, although not referring specifically to mining, are applicable thereto. Article 138, for example, prohibits confiscation of property as a penalty or for any other reasons, but, in the event that any authority violates this prohibition, the confiscated property is imprescriptible.
SSGM CURRENT STATUS
The Company, through its Joint Venture is conducting the following activities: It is in the exploration, development and pre-production mining stage which consists of completing its survey, mapping, site preparation, infrastructure, construction, planning, and in the performance of the auxiliary work needed to begin gold production at the SSGM site. Presently, the Company is seeking funding to purchase equipment, to purchase inventory, and to use for working capital for its on-site proposed open-pit, heap-leaching operation. In addition, the Company is engaged in the exploration and development of the peripheral area (including diamond core drilling) surrounding the main body of gold ore in order to increase its gold ore reserves.
The Company's main objective and plan, through the Joint Venture, is to operate a moderate tonnage, low-grade, open-pit, heap-leaching operation to produce gold on its SSGM site. Dependent on the funding, the grade of ore, and the tonnage processed, it anticipates producing more than 40,000 ounces of gold from its open-pit, heap-leaching operation during the first twelve full operating months and more thereafter.
PROPOSED SSGM OPEN-PIT, HEAP-LEACHING OPERATION
The Joint Venture has placed the SCMP into a curbed production operation. It now intends to obtain a sum of $6 million or more to commence an open-pit, heap-leaching operation at the SSGM site. An additional $7 million or more is estimated to be required for the crushing system and mining equipment if the Joint Venture were unable to lease this equipment. After these funds are obtained, the Joint Venture intends to start processing gold ore from its open pit at a production level of 2,000 tons per day. During the second year, the production level plans are to expand production to 3,000 tons per day (the funds for this expansion could be generated from profits). An increase to process 4,000 tons of gold ore per day would take place during the third year and another expansion to process 6,000 tons per day would take place at the beginning of the fifth year; all funds for this expansion should be available through a combination of earned profits, borrowings, equity sales, or other sources. With the anticipated production volume, there is at least an eight-year supply of gold ore. More gold ore would be developed during this period of time as it is believed that a substantial amount of gold ore can be proven.
SSGM LABORATORY AND SURVEYING CREWS
The Joint Venture has its own SSGM on-site laboratory with full-time, trained personnel working three shifts to fire assay the gold ore samples. It also has two full-time surveying crews consisting of ten persons.
SSGM OWNERSHIP OF THE PROPERTY
The San Sebastian Gold Mine real estate consisting of approximately 1,470 acres, is owned by Misanse, a Salvadoran corporation. The Company owns 52% of Misanse common shares that are issued and outstanding. Over 65,576 fire assay samples have been completed through March 31, 1999.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
Since the Government of El Salvador has established a new Mining Law effective February 1996, its exploration, development, and production programs are subject to environmental protection. The El Salvador Ministry of Environment has jurisdiction over environmental control.
Environmental regulations add to the cost and time needed to bring new mines or mills into production and add to operating and closure costs for mines already in operation. As the Company places more mines into production, the costs associated with regulatory compliance can be expected to increase. Such costs are a normal cost of doing business in the mining industry, and may require significant capital and operating expenditures in the future. The Company cannot accurately predict or estimate the impact of any future laws or regulations developed in El Salvador that would affect the Company's operations.
All operations by the Company involving the exploration for or the production of minerals are subject to existing laws and regulations relating to exploration procedures, safety precautions, employee health and safety, air quality standards, pollution of water sources, waste materials, odor, noise, dust and other environmental protection requirements adopted by the El Salvador governmental authorities. The Company may be required to prepare and present to such authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration for or production of minerals may have upon the environment. The requirements imposed by any such authorities may be costly, time consuming and may delay operations. Future legislation and regulations designed to protect the environment, as well as future interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may require substantial increases in equipment and operating costs to the Company and delays, interruptions, or a termination of operations. The Company cannot accurately predict or estimate the impact of any such future laws or regulations, or future interpretations of existing laws and regulations, on its operations.
The Company has submitted an environmental impact study prepared by an independent El Salvadoran consultant to the Minister of Environment.
SAN FELIPE-EL POTOSI MINE ("POTOSI") AND ITS EXTENSION THE EL CAPULIN - --------------------------------------------------------------------- MINE ("EL CAPULIN") - -------------------
POTOSI LOCATION
The Joint Venture has commenced an exploration program on the Potosi property which is located approximately 18 miles northwest of the city of San Miguel, the second largest city in the Republic of El Salvador, Central America, on a paved road 15 miles to the city of Chapalteque and then west three miles on a gravel road to the city of Potosi. The historical records indicate that the potential of developing a gold mine is above average.
POTOSI HISTORICAL INFORMATION
Historical records evidence that exploration and production of gold took place in 1899 and that Potosi was worked intermittently from 1906 through 1952. The main production period in six levels was from 1938 through 1952 at a rate of 35 to 50 tons per day. Production data avouch that 30,000 ounces of gold were produced from 1945 through 1952 after which the mine became dormant. During this time a curbed underground exploration program confirmed that the gold ore reserves were of commercial value. The gold assays from some of the former drill hole samples on the southern extension of the north-south portion of this property showed a grade of 0.10 to 0.35 ounces of gold per ton of ore.
POTOSI GEOLOGY
The Potosi vein type occurrences are very strong, persistent, poor quartz-calcite fissure fillings from two to ten feet wide and up to 3,400 feet in length. On a regional scale, the veins are fairly straight-forward type structures but in detail they can be complicated. Dips in the north-south veins are steeper than in the lattice systems such as the 50 degrees to 90 degrees in the Potosi type. The proportion of gold-to-silver increases in north-south striking veins or in veins of any orientation whose dips more closely approach the vertical.
Two relatively narrow north-south veins, 450 feet apart, have been worked in the past by vertical and an inclined shaft for up to 2,100 feet along the strike and to depths of between 180 and 440 feet below surface on four to six levels. The veins are contained in coarse-grained augite andesites. The larger of the veins is up to ten feet in width, dipping 55 degrees to 75 degrees west. The second vein is weaker in structure and about three feet in width. Gold values seem to be indiscriminately associated with quartz and do not seem to diminish at depth. Assay plans and ore reserve sections completed in 1952 show 30 blocks with an average grade of 0.6563 ounces of gold per ton. Holes drilled from the projected extension of the north-south portion of one of the veins returned various five-foot sludge samples grading 0.10 to 0.35 ounces of gold per ton with a one foot of core length grading at 0.39 ounces of gold per ton. It appears that the deposition took place at higher temperatures than attributed to silver, thus the vertical zoning of gold deposition is deeper or has a larger vertical dimension than silver; therefore the possibility of considerable ore below levels is a realistic one. The age mineralization is past laramide with the host rock being rhyolite. The previous gold-silver ratio was 0.3:1.
POTOSI TAILINGS' RESERVE
Since October 25, 1993, Comseb has had a full-time crew, ranging from 25 to 30 employees, conducting an exploration program consisting of surveys, channel trenching, adit openings, test pit holes, excavation and drilling of the tailings to determine its gold content.
Twenty-four test pit hole excavations have been plotted and drilled on this four-acre site of tailings. The depth to the bottom of the tailings' pile varied from 7.00 to 10.2 meters (23 to 34 vertical feet) and a total of 137.6 meters (454 feet) of test pit hole excavations were completed. The 573 fire assay samples (tailings) indicated an average grade of gold per ounce of 0.06. The 185,000 tons available multiplied by the average grade of 0.06 should contain 11,100 ounces of gold. The 11,100 ounces of gold multiplied by a 70% recovery should yield about 7,770 ounces of gold.
POTOSI AND EL CAPULIN EXPLORATION UNDERTAKINGS
A total of 2,506 meters (8,270 feet) of channel trenching was excavated with a grade ranging from 0.01 to 0.05 ounces of gold per ton. A total of 801 meters (2,643 feet) of adits has been restored for entry into the old workings. A total of 3,140 fire assay samples were completed with the results encouraging a drilling program.
POTOSI EXPLORATION CONCESSION
The exploration concession application was filed on September 6, 1993, with the Department of Energy, Mines and Hydrocarbons, a division of the El Salvador's Minister of Economy's office, by the owners of the real estate, the Cooperative San Felipe-El Potosi. An application for an exploration concession was filed on May 8, 1997 in order to comply with the current mining regulations adopted by the Government of El Salvador in February 1996. The concession consists of approximately 6,100 acres.
While the concession application is pending, it precludes any others from performing exploration on this site. Upon assessing that the property has potential mining prospects, the Joint Venture has the right and did apply for the mining concession.
POTOSI LEASE AGREEMENT
The Joint Venture entered into a lease agreement with the San Felipe Potosi Cooperative ("Cooperative") of the city of Potosi, El Salvador on July 6, 1993, to lease the real estate for a period of 30 years and with an option to renew the lease for an additional 25 years, for the purpose of mining and extracting minerals and under the following basic terms and conditions:
1. The term of the lease will be for a period of 30 years plus an option to automatically extend the lease for an additional 25 years.
2. The lease payment will be five percent of the gross receipts derived from the production of precious metals from this site and will be payable monthly.
3. The Joint Venture will advance to the Cooperative the funds required to obtain the mining concession from the El Salvador Department of Energy, Mines and Hydrocarbons and all related costs will be reimbursed or will become a deduction from future rental payments.
4. The Joint Venture will, when it is in production, employ all of the 45 qualified members of the Cooperative, providing that there is a need for their particular skill or service.
5. The Joint Venture will furnish medicine and first aid medical assistance to all of its employees to the extent that such benefits are not provided by the El Salvador Social Security System.
6. An employee life insurance program is to be seriously considered by the Joint Venture when production commences, providing that the cost of such insurance is not excessive.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
Reference is made to San Sebastian Gold Mine "Environmental Matters." The same information applies except that no environmental impact study is being conducted at Potosi or El Capulin at this time.
HORMIGUERO MINE ("HORMIGUERO") - ------------------------------
HORMIGUERO LOCATION
The Hormiguero is located approximately five miles southeast from the SCMP off of the Pan American Highway in the Departments of San Miguel and Morazan, Comacaran Jurisdiction, in the Republic of El Salvador, Central America. The Joint Venture plans to survey, map, plat, plan and develop an exploration program.
HORMIGUERO CURRENT STATUS
The Joint Venture continues to develop an exploration program on the 5,000 acre site. An application for exploration has been filed on September 6, 1993 with the Department of Energy, Mines and Hydrocarbons, a division of the El Salvador Minister of Economy's office. In order to comply with the El Salvadoran Mining Law adopted during February 1996, an exploration application was filed on April 21, 1997.
The Hormiguero property continues to be in the stages of being mapped geologically and topographically on a referenced grid in order to provide a base to plan a drilling program with the objective to prove that a commercial body of ore may extend below the bottom of the former workings. This drilling activity would also determine if the faulted north end of the Gallardo vein continues. Further drilling could evidence the mineralization of unexplored veins.
1. Tailings: In an area of approximately 15,744 square meters (approximately four acres) 35 test pit holes at a total depth of 322 meters (1,063 feet) were excavated and the 705 samples that were fire assayed showed an average of 0.064 ounces of gold per ton; (0.064 ounces per ton multiplied by 150,000 tons reflected that there are 9,600 ounces of gold).
2. The surface channel trenches consisting of 511 meters (1,686 lineal feet) were dug perpendicular to the Guadalupe vein and the samples in this area verified an average grade of 0.0177 ounces of gold per ton.
3. Taladron Adit: The purpose is to clean this adit for entry, in an attempt to intercept the Guadalupe vein at 61 meters (201 feet) below surface. A total of 156 meters (515 lineal feet) have been cleaned.
4. The more than 6,000 tons of broken ore (dump material) averaged a grade of 0.055 ounces of gold per ton. The same grade average was encountered in the Las Hormigas vein system in the Guadelupe dump material.
HORMIGUERO OWNERSHIP
This real estate is owned by various individuals and families and the Joint Venture has entered into a lease arrangement with the land owners to explore approximately 175 acres of the core of the mining property.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
Reference is made to San Sebastian Gold Mine "Environmental Matters." The same information applies except that no environmental impact study is being conducted at Hormiguero at this time.
MODESTO MINE - ------------
MODESTO MINE LOCATION
The Modesto Mine is located due north of the town of El Paisnal, approximately 19 miles north of the capital city, San Salvador, in the Republic of El Salvador, Central America.
MODESTO MINE PRESENT STATUS
After completing the necessary surveying, mapping and planning, the Joint Venture proceeded to clean and trench the surface and adit vein exposure. Since August 1993, 3,084 metric feet of surface channel trenching (10,177 feet) and 866 meters (2,858 feet) of adit cleaning were completed. In addition, four inclines have been excavated for entry. A total of 4,027 fire assay samples were performed revealing an average grade of 0.035 ounces per ton. The Joint Venture suspended its exploration during July 1997 as the Government of El Salvador awarded the concession of the property to another mining company. The Company believes that it owns the key property, therefore permission from the Company will be required before entry can be made by others. The Joint Venture, upon advice of legal counsel, intends to file an application for a concession (license) on the property it owns.
On or about September 2, 1993, the Joint Venture through one of its employees, filed an application with the El Salvador Department of Energy, Mines and Hydrocarbons to explore the 4,000 hectares (9,800 acres) of property known as the Modesto Mine. The application, together with the consent to explore this area from the property owners owning more than 25% of total area, has been submitted to the El Salvador Director of Energy, Mines and Hydrocarbons. Also, the Joint Venture had submitted its original plan to this governmental agency on January 24, 1994, outlining its exploration program. In order to comply with the current mining regulations adopted by the Government of El Salvador during February 1996, the Joint Venture filed an exploration concession application on April 21, 1997.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
Reference is made to San Sebastian Gold Mine "Environmental Matters." The same information applies except that no environmental impact study is being conducted at Modesto at this time.
MONTEMAYOR MINE ("MONTEMAYOR") - ------------------------------
MONTEMAYOR LOCATION/OWNERSHIP
The Joint Venture has obtained leases for more than 175 acres of the surface rights from a number of property owners which permits the Joint Venture to enter their property for the purpose of exploring, exploiting and developing the property and then, if feasible, to mine and extract minerals from this property. The term of this permission is for an infinite period. The Company believes that this real estate contains the "heart" of the mine. Montemayor is located about 14 miles northeast of the SCMP, six miles northwest of the SSGM and about two and one-half miles east of the city of San Francisco Gotera in the Department of Morazan, Republic of El Salvador. Historical records evidence that the potential for the Montemayor to become an exploration and development gold-producing prospect is good.
On April 22, 1997, a current exploration concession was filed with the Minister of Economy's office in order to comply with the El Salvadoran Mining Law adopted on February 1996. During July 1997, the Department of Mines and Hydrocarbons has awarded the concession to others. Since the Joint Venture has leases on the surface of key real estate, it cannot be forced to allow others on this key part of the property. The Joint Venture, upon advice of its legal counsel, intends to file an application for a concession (license) on the property it leases.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
Reference is made to San Sebastian Gold Mine "Environmental Matters." The same information applies except that no environmental impact study is being conducted at Montemayor at this time.
SAN CRISTOBAL MILL AND PLANT ("SCMP") RECOVERY AND PROCESSING SYSTEM - --------------------------------------------------------------------
SCMP LOCATION
SCMP is located near the city of El Divisadero (off of the Pan American Highway), and is approximately 13 miles east of the city of San Miguel, the second largest city in the Republic of El Salvador, Central America.
SCMP LEASE AGREEMENT
Although the Joint Venture owns the mill, plant and related equipment, it does not own the land and certain buildings. Since February 23, 1993, the Joint Venture attempted to either lease or purchase this real estate from an Agency of the El Salvador Government, Corporacion Salvadorena de Inversiones ("Corsain"). On November 12, 1993, the Joint Venture entered into an agreement with Corsain to lease approximately 166 acres of land and the buildings for a period of ten years. The annual rental charge is U.S. $11,500 payable in advance and subject to annual increases based on the United States' percentage rate of inflation. Also as agreed, an $11,500 security deposit was required and this deposit is subject to an annual increase based on the U.S. inflation rate. The premises are strategically located to process gold ore from the other mining prospects that are in the exploration stage.
SCMP MILL AND PLANT PROCESS DESCRIPTION
Instead of utilizing the existing recovery system, the Joint Venture's engineers have designed a carbon-in-leach (CIL) process.
On February 23, 1993, the Company, on behalf of the Joint Venture acquired SCMP, a precious metals' cyanide leaching mill and plant rated with a capacity of processing 200 tons per day which utilized the following unit operations: crushing, grinding, thickening, agitated leaching, counter current decantation of leach solution, recovery of precious metals by zinc precipitation (Merrill-Crowe), and direct smelting of precipitates to produce precious metals as dore and tailings' disposal.
The Company's engineers recommended that this processing system be retrofitted and converted to process the SSGM tailings by a cyanidation carbon-in-leach (CIL) system to recover the residual cyanide soluble precious metals. The first pouring of gold on a test basis took place on March 31, 1995. The SCMP is being operated on a "start-up and build-up" to a gradual full capacity system during this trial and modification period.
CURRENT STATUS
The start-up, testing and adjustment stage of processing the remaining SSGM tailings via trucking this ore to the SCMP has continued and the Joint Venture is still in its preliminary stage of producing gold. The SCMP is being designed to process 300/400 tons of virgin ore per day. The SSGM average grade was about 0.080 ounces of gold per ton.
During this fiscal year the Joint Venture did process at the SCMP approximately 52,000 dry tons (approximately 70,000 wet tons) of tailings which yielded 4,381 ounces of dore and accounted for 2,684 ounces of gold and 836 ounces of silver. The cash gross receipts amounted to $785,526.
SCMP PROJECT OPERATING PLAN
PRODUCTION SCHEDULE
Preproduction development, consisting primarily of expansive road and site improvements to the mine and mill sites, mill equipment modifications and the development and hauling of virgin ore has taken place during the past years. Initial production was from the SSGM tailings. Since SSGM's tailings' resource is exhausted, virgin gold ore is excavated from the SSGM surface and hauled to the SCMP site.
The other sources of gold ore from the SSGM to be used at the SCMP operation will be obtained from the stope fill or higher grade gold ore after obtaining access through the underground workings from the main ore body. This gold ore will have to be crushed and pulverized which increases the cost, but then the yield is expected to be about a 92% recovery. The income, dependent on the market price of gold from the higher grade and recovery of gold ore, will be substantially more than the cost involved, providing that the world gold market price does not continue to decline to a level of unprofitability.
The virgin ore and/or tailings are referred to herein as "gold ore." The gold ore from the SSGM open-pit is loaded onto 20-25 ton dump trucks for transport to the SCMP. Trucks then haul the gold ore on the Pan American Highway approximately 15 miles from the SSGM. Mine employees are responsible for the mining activities including the determination of areas to be excavated, trucking and loading operations, head sampling and sample analysis.
The gold ore is received at the SCMP where it is weighed, logged, and sampled. Weighing is performed utilizing a conveyor belt scale and/or a truck scale located on the SCMP site. The excess gold ore is then unloaded at the SCMP site and stockpiled in an area which was developed to allow storage of more than 15,000 tons.
SCMP PERSONNEL
The SCMP employees, during this past year's start-up testing period (including its own trained security personnel) total about 144 persons. The SCMP is operated 24 hours per day, seven days per week and 52 weeks per year.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
Reference is made to San Sebastian Gold Mine "Environmental Matters." The same information applies.
COMSEB LABORATORIES (LAB) - -------------------------
The Joint Venture has two laboratories: one located at the SCMP facilities and the other on real estate owned by the Company near the SSGM site. At the SSGM Lab, the Joint Venture employs four employees for each of the twelve-hour shifts where a total of 74,507 samples of fire assays have been completed through March 31, 1999. Approximately four employees are working during the two eight-hour shifts at the SCMP laboratory.
CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS - ----------------------
The Company leases approximately 4,032 square feet of office space for its corporate headquarters on the second floor of the building known as the General Building located at 6001 North 91st Street, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, at a monthly rental charge of $2,789 on a month-to-month basis. The lessor is General Lumber & Supply Co., Inc. ("General Lumber"), a Wisconsin corporation. The Company's President, Edward L. Machulak owns 55% of the common stock of General Lumber. Edward L. Machulak disclaims any interest in the balance of General Lumber common stock which is owned by two of Mr. Machulak's brothers, his wife, and a trust for the benefit of his children. In addition, the Company shares proportionately any increase in real property taxes and any increase in general fire and extended coverage insurance on the property. In lieu of cash payment, the Lessor has agreed to apply the monthly rental payments owed to the secured open-ended, on-demand promissory note(s) due to it.
ITEM 3.