Item 2. Properties
Mining Properties
The table below provides a summary of the most significant mining properties in which Commerce Group Corp. or the Joint Venture has an interest. All of the properties are located in the Republic of El Salvador, Central America. More detailed information regarding each of these properties is provided in the text that follows.
Property Description
Nature of Interest
Date Interest was Acquired
Cost of Interest
Amount of Funds to Make Property Operational
Date Mine will be Operational
1.
San Sebastian Gold Mine located two and one-half miles northwest of the city of Santa Rosa de Lima and the Pan American Highway.
Mineral concession consisting of 100% ownership of the precious metals extracted from this mine.
5% of the gross precious metal proceeds or $343 a month whichever is higher.
This is dependent on the scale of production that management decides to perform. The amount of investment could be from $5 million to $100 million.
It was in operation on a curbed production basis from 03/31/95 until December 31, 1999 when operations were suspended due to the need to overhaul, repair, restore and expand the SCMP facilities and due to the low price of gold.
2.
Modesto Mine located near the city of Paisnal and about 19 miles north of San Salvador, the capital city.
Application is to be submitted for a mineral concession on the real estate owned by the Company to own 100% of the precious metals extracted from the real estate owned by the Company.
09/93
On the Company-owned land it appears as if this will be an underground operation.
Therefore, no cost for interest.
Undetermined until a preliminary drilling program is completed; estimated cost of drilling is $2 million.
Undetermined.
3.
San Cristobal Mill and Plant located on the Pan American Highway west of the city of El Divisadero.
Mill and Plant owned by Joint Venture. The real estate is owned by an agency of the Government of El Salvador.
Equipment 02/23/93 and thereafter
Lease 11/12/93
Equipment purchased and extensive retrofitting was and continues to be performed. The cost of the investment through 03/31/06, including the crushing system located at the San Sebastian Gold Mine, is $6,777,685.
To expand the plant, including a crushing system to a capacity of 500 tons per day; an estimated sum of up to $4 million may be required, all dependent whether new or used equipment will be purchased.
Curbed production commenced March 1995; expansion program in progress. Operations suspended on 12/31/99 until the existing equipment is overhauled, repaired, restored and expansion of the SCMP facilities are completed, and, dependent on the price of gold.
4.
New San Sebastian Gold Mine Exploration Concession/License consisting of 42 square kilometers.
Exploration concession issued by the Government of El Salvador for 100% ownership of the precious metals.
02/03
Undetermined until negotiated with the surface rights’ owners.
Undetermined until preliminary exploration at an estimated cost of $2 million is completed.
Undetermined until exploration which is taking place is completed.
5.
Nueva Esparta Exploration Concession/License consisting of 45 square kilometers.
Exploration concession issued by the Government of El Salvador for 100% ownership of the precious metals.
05/04
Undetermined until negotiated with the surface rights’ owners
Undetermined until preliminary exploration at an estimated cost of $2 million is completed.
Undetermined until exploration which is taking place is completed.
The San Sebastian Gold Mine
General Location and Accessibility
The SSGM is situated on a mountainous tract of land consisting of approximately 1,470 acres of explored and unexplored mining prospects. The SSGM is located approximately two and one-half miles off of the Pan American Highway, northwest of the city of Santa Rosa de Lima in the Department of La Union, El Salvador. The tract is typical of the numerous volcanic mountains of the coastal range of southeastern El Salvador. The topography is mountainous with elevations ranging from 300 to 1,500 feet above sea level. The mountain slopes are steep, the gulches are well defined, and the drainage is excellent.
There is good roadway access to the SSGM site. The reconstruction of the Pan American Highway from two lanes to four lanes (from the city of San Salvador to the Honduran border) has been completed. The city of Santa Rosa de Lima (approximately three miles from the SSGM) is one of the larger cities in the Eastern Zone. The SSGM is approximately 30 miles from the city of San Miguel, which is El Salvador’s third largest city, and approximately 108 miles southeast of El Salvador’s capital city, San Salvador. SSGM is also approximately 26 miles from the city of La Union which has port and railroad facilities. Major United States’ commercial airlines provide daily scheduled flights to the Comalapa Airport which is located on the outskirts of the city of San Salvador.
SSGM Reserves and Operation
(1)
The estimated recoverable ounces of gold by processing: SCMP, 85% to 95%; heap leach, 65% to 70%.
The dump material and stope fill at the SSGM are the by-products of past mining operations. The dump material is actually gold ore which has been mined in the search for higher grades of gold ore and piled to the side of past excavations as it was considered at that time to be too low of a grade of ore to process economically; however, it was reserved for future processing when the price of gold is at a level to process it profitably. The stope fill that is available was in the past (1900 era) considered to be too low of a grade of ore to process economically, therefore it was primarily used to fill the voids in the underground workings to accommodate the extraction of the higher grade of gold ore in the past SSGM mining activities. Virgin gold ore, as the term is used in this report, is gold ore which is on the surface and readily available for processing; it also includes the undeveloped underground gold ore.
At the turn of the twentieth century, the SSGM was rated as one of the richest gold mines in the world. The United Nations’ 1969 Mineral Survey Report states that “unquestionably the San Sebastian deposit was the jewel of the El Salvador mining industry and one of the most prolific gold mines in Central America.”
Virgin gold ore at the SSGM represents the majority of the material (14.4 million tons, including the dump waste material) in the Company’s reserves. The Company plans to use an open-pit mining method and will truck the lower grade gold ore to one or more heap-leaching pads developed at the SSGM site. The use of open-pit mining and heap-leaching techniques will enable the Company to process a higher volume of low grade gold ore than can be processed at the SCMP. The Company plans to continue to operate the SCMP after developing a leach-pad operation at the SSGM, using the facility to process the higher grade ore it encounters in the course of mining at the SSGM. The milling operation at the SCMP is expected to return a higher rate of gold recovery than can be expected from heap-leaching techniques.
Approximately 960,000 tons of dump material present at the SSGM site, with grades ranging from 0.082 to 0.178 ounces of gold per ton, have been combined with the virgin ore reserves. An analysis of the underground stope fill material was made by the Company’s consulting geologist who has confirmed that about seven percent of the stope fill had been removed and processed during the 1973-1978 period. The grade of the stope fill averages 0.34 ounces of gold per ton. It is estimated that there are about one million tons available for SCMP treatment from the underground operations. It is necessary to remove the material which has caved in the adits to reach the stope fill areas, or it eventually will be encountered in the open-pit operations.
All residue from the contemplated operations will be stockpiled for potential future processing dependent upon the price of gold, improvements in technology, and the depletion of higher grade material.
Misanse Mining Lease
The Company (previously through the Joint Venture) leases the SSGM from Mineral San Sebastian, S.A. de C.V. (“Misanse”), an El Salvadoran corporation. The Company owns 52% of the total of Misanse’s issued and outstanding shares. About 100 El Salvador, Central American and United States’ citizens own the balance of the shares. (Reference is made to Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 7, for related party interests.)
SSGM Mining Lease
On January 14, 2003, the Company entered into an amended and renewed lease agreement with Mineral San Sebastian Sociedad Anomina de Capital Variable (Misanse) pursuant to the approval of the Misanse shareholders and directors at a shareholders’ meeting and thereafter at a directors’ meeting both held on January 12, 2003. The renewed lease is for a period to coincide with the term of its Renewed SSGM, which it received on August 29, 2003 from the DHM. It was automatically amended on May 20, 2004 to coincide with the extension of the term of the Renewed San Sebastian Gold Mine Exploitation Concession/License from 20 to 30 years. The lease is automatically extendible for one or more equal periods. The Company will pay to Misanse for the rental of this real estate the sum of five percent of the sales of the gold and silver produced from this real estate, however, the payment will not be less than $343.00 per month. The Company has the right to assign this lease without prior notice or permission from Misanse. This lease is pledged as collateral for loans made to related parties (Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 7).
Misanse Mineral Concession/License-Government of El Salvador
In El Salvador, the rights to minerals below the sub-surface are vested with the government. The government through concessions or licenses grants mineral rights. Reference is made to the San Sebastian Gold Mine map and the exploration and exploitation maps that follow.
On January 27, 1987, the Government of El Salvador granted a right to the SSGM mining concession (“concession”) to Misanse which was subject to the performance of the El Salvador Mining Law requirements. These rights were simultaneously assigned to the Joint Venture.
On July 23, 1987, the Government of El Salvador delivered and granted to Misanse, possession of the mining concession. At that time this provided the right to extract and export minerals for a term of 25 years (plus a 25-year renewal option) beginning on the first day of production from the real estate which encompasses the SSGM owned by Misanse. Misanse assigned this concession to the Joint Venture.
Effective February 1996, the Government of El Salvador passed a law which required mining companies to pay to it three percent of its gross gold sale receipts and an additional one percent is to be paid to the El Salvador municipality which has jurisdiction of the mine site. As of July 2001, a series of revisions to the El Salvador Mining Law were made. A principal change is that the fee has been reduced to two percent of the gross gold and silver receipts.
Renewed San Sebastian Gold Mine Exploitation Concession/License under El Salvador Agreement Number 591 dated May 20, 2004 and delivered on June 4, 2004 (Renewed SSGM) - approximately 1.2306 square kilometers (304 acres) located in the Department of La Union, El Salvador, Central America
On September 6, 2002, at a meeting held with the El Salvadoran Minister of Economy and the DHM, it was agreed to submit an application for the Renewed SSGM for a 30-year term and to simultaneously cancel the concession obtained on July 23, 1987. On September 26, 2002, the Company filed this application. On February 28, 2003 (received March 3, 2003) the DHM admitted to the receipt of the application and the Company proceeded to file public notices as required by Article 40 of the El Salvadoran Mining Law and its Reform (MLIR). On April 16, 2003, the Company’s El Salvadoran legal counsel filed with the DHM notice that it believed that it complied with the requirements of Article 40, and that there were no objections; and requested that the DHM make its inspection as required by MLIR Article 42. An inspection by the DHM was made. The Company then provided a bond which was required by the DHM to protect third parties against any damage caused from the mining operations, and it simultaneously paid the annual surface tax. On August 29, 2003 the Office of the Ministry of Economy formally presented the Company with a twenty-year Renewed SSGM which was dated August 18, 2003. On May 20, 2004 (delivered June 4, 2004) the Government of El Salvador under this Agreement Number 591 extended the exploitation concession for a period of thirty (30) years. This Renewed SSGM replaces the collateral that the same parties held with the previous concession.
New SSGM Exploration Concession/License under El Salvador Resolution Number 27 (New SSGM) - approximately 40.7694 square kilometers (10,070 acres) located in the Departments of La Union and Morazan, El Salvador, Central America
On October 20, 2002, the Company applied to the Government of El Salvador through the DHM for the New SSGM, which covers an area of 42 square kilometers and includes approximately 1.2306 square kilometers of the Renewed SSGM. The New SSGM is in the jurisdiction of the City of Santa Rosa de Lima in the Department of La Union, Republic of El Salvador, Central America. On February 24, 2003, the DHM issued the New SSGM for a period of four years starting from the date following the notification of this resolution which was received on March 3, 2003. The New SSGM may be extended for two two-year periods, or for a total of eight years. Besides the San Sebastian Gold Mine, the following three other formerly operative gold and silver mines included in the New SSGM are being explored: the La Lola Mine, the Santa Lucia Mine, and the Tabanco Mine. Historical data reflects the following:
A French company operated the La Lola Mine in 1920; they developed two quartz veins, which were named La Lola and Buena Vista. From 1950 through 1953, Mr. Amadeo Tinetti produced 1,850 ounces of gold and 66,000 ounces of silver.
The Tabanco Mine is south of the La Lola Mine. Records evidence and local citizens confirm that several levels of mining occurred. Isolated rich ore shoots reported to contain sulfides and silver chloride were encountered. The oxidized sulfide ore was mined from a width of three to six feet with a grade of 0.50 ounces per ton of gold and five ounces of silver. Records reflect that the Herrera family produced gold and silver beginning in the year 1780.
In the Tepeyac vein very high-grade ore in one to two foot widths was encountered. A United Nation’s team performed sampling and reported that in a sulfide bearing zone they found 0.31 ounces of gold and 4.52 ounces of silver in a 4.9 foot wide vein. The footwall host rock assayed at 0.22 ounces of gold and 41.29 ounces of silver. This footwall rock area location was not specifically identified, but the result lends strength to the recommendation that in any further sampling or mapping of veins in the epithermal environment, close attention will be directed to the wall rock.
The third mine in this exploration concession is the Santa Lucia Mine in which Mr. Humberto Perla developed a 100 meter wide underground vein. This vein is the west continuation of the Granadilla and the Año Nuevo veins located about two miles west of the SSGM property.
Nueva Esparta Exploration Concession/License (Nueva Esparta) Resolution Number 271 - 45 square kilometers (11,115 acres) located in the Departments of La Union and Morazan, El Salvador, Central America
On or about October 20, 2002, the Company filed an application with the Government of El Salvador through the DHM for the Nueva Esparta, which consists of 45 square kilometers north and adjacent to the New SSGM. This rectangular area is in the Departments of La Union (east) and Morazan (west) and in the jurisdiction of the City of Santa Rosa de Lima, El Salvador, Central America. On May 25, 2004 (received June 4, 2004) the Government of El Salvador under Resolution Number 271 issued the exploration concession for a period of four years with a right to request an additional four year extension. An important observation is that these mines form a belt of mineralization following a fault line from the SSGM to the Montemayor Mine for a distance of approximately five miles. Included in the Nueva Esparta are eight other formerly
operated gold and silver mines known as: the Grande Mine, the Las Piñas Mine, the Oro Mine, the Montemayor Mine, the Bañadero Mine, the Carrizal Mine, the La Joya Mine and the Copetillo Mine. Historical data reflects the following:
The Montemayor Mine has records that show that an English company commenced production of precious metals sometime about 1860. A report prepared by Mr. Fleury in 1878 stated that the area assayed approximately 48 ounces of silver and 0.85 ounces of gold per ton. Six underground workings were developed, but no records are available. A United Nation’s report reflects a possible grade of twelve ounces of silver and 0.29 ounces of gold from a section of the Montemayor vein stope. The Montañita, Tempique, Guarumo, Santa Gertrudis and El Indio vein findings support expanded exploration. The Company has performed preliminary exploration in the Montemayor Mine area from 1995 through 1997. Its findings from the ore samples were very positive and encouraged additional exploration. Exploration will consist of locating workable ore within the known structures through mapping and sampling of vein outcrops and reopening, mapping and sampling of underground work.
The El Bañadero Mine is located near the Montemayor Mine. When in production, most of the ore processed at the Montemayor mill came from this area and the quality of the precious metals appeared to have the highest values. The veins identified in the area are the Saravia, Borbollon, Caraguito 1 to 3, Eulalio and the Miserocordia.
At the La Joya Mine the Company, during previous exploration, discovered three parallel wide quartz veins averaging in width from six feet to twenty-seven feet running northwest by southeast dipping at 42 degrees southwest. More exploration will be concentrated in this tract.
El Jimenito and Santa Teresa are two wide veins that the Company found at the El Carrizal Mine. They are 1,920 to 2,560 feet apart. The local residents recollect that free gold was found in the Santa Teresa Vein Adit. This mine is located between the La Joya and Copetillo Mines.
One vein was discovered at the Copetillo Mine in an underground adit. It was developed into two sublevels connected to the south with one 100-foot shaft. Residents recall seeing free gold in the Canton Copetillo.
The Las Piñas Mine is located in the Canton Las Cañas and was in operation in 1935. It was developed for a five-year, 100-ton-per-day mill and plant. Records show that the average grade of silver was 5.10 ounces per ton and that the grade of gold averaged 0.06 ounces per ton.
The La Joya Mine is located in the Canton La Joya. Records relating to activities were not preserved. While exploring the region, Commerce found three parallel wide quartz veins ranging from six to 25 feet running northwest to southeast. The grass roots exploration suggests that this is an area with great ore potential.
At this time there is no available information about the Oro Mine. It is a short distance south of the Montemayor Mine. This could be a good exploration target.
SSGM Current Status
The Company, through its Joint Venture is conducting the following activities: It is in the exploration, exploitation, development and pre-production mining stage which consists of completing its survey, mapping, site preparation, infrastructure, construction, planning, and the performance of the auxiliary work needed to resume gold production at the SSGM site. Presently, the Company is seeking funding to purchase equipment, to purchase inventory, and to use for working capital for its on-site proposed open-pit, heap-leaching operation. As an alternate, the Company is considering a joint venture, merger, acquisition, or any other mutually agreed upon business arrangement.
The Company’s main objective and plan, through the Joint Venture, is to operate a moderate tonnage, low-grade, open-pit, heap-leaching operation to produce gold on its SSGM site. Dependent on the funding, the grade of ore, and the tonnage processed, it anticipates producing more than 56,000 ounces of gold from its open-pit, heap-leaching operation during the first twelve full operating months and then gradually increasing the average annual production of gold to 113,000 ounces.
The Company’s plans include placing its SCMP into production. Although it will be a low tonnage operation, the Company believes that it would be profitable since the present price of gold is over $600 an ounce.
Proposed SSGM Open-Pit, Heap-Leaching Operation
The Joint Venture has placed the SCMP into a curbed production operation until it receives the funds that it requires or enters into a business arrangement. It now intends to obtain a sum of $19 million or more to commence an open-pit, heap-leaching operation at the SSGM site. These funds are required to install the crushing system and plant, to purchase mining equipment, and for working capital. The Joint Venture may be able to lease this equipment. When these funds are available, the Joint Venture intends to start processing gold ore from its open pit at a production level of 2,000 tons per day (expected 50,000 ounces annually). During the second year, the production level plans are to expand production to 3,000 tons per day (the funds for this expansion could be generated from profits, with an expectation of 56,000 ounces annually). An increase to process 4,000 tons of gold ore per day would take place during the third year with an expectation of producing 75,000 ounces annually and another expansion to process 6,000 tons per day would take place at the beginning of the fifth year (with an expectation of producing 112,000 ounces annually); all funds for this expansion should be available through a combination of earned profits, borrowings, equity sales, or other creative sources. With the anticipated production volume, there is more than a nine-year supply of gold ore and it is believed that a substantial amount of gold ore can be proven to continue operating at the same levels for a longer period.
The Company’s geologists have defined a body of ore consisting of 138 million tons of gold ore at a grade of 0.025 ounces of gold per ton. This reflects a potential of 3.4 million ounces of gold (including the existing 1.5 million ounces) and about 400,000 ounces of silver from this planned open-pit, heap-leaching operation. It would take about 64 years to process this body of gold ore at a production capacity of 6,000 tons per day.
SSGM Ownership of the Property
Misanse, a Salvadoran corporation, owns the San Sebastian Gold Mine real estate consisting of approximately 1,470 acres. The Company owns 52% of Misanse common shares that are issued and outstanding.
Environmental Matters
The Company’s operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations adopted by various governmental authorities in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Accordingly, the Company has adopted policies, practices and procedures in the areas of pollution control, product safety, occupational health and the production, handling, storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials to prevent material environmental or other damage, and to limit the financial liability which could result from such events. However, some risk of environmental or other damage is inherent in the business of the Company, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses.
Since the Company has been granted the Renewed SSGM from the DHM, it is required to maintain environmental permits. The issuance of these permits is under the jurisdiction of the El Salvador Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Office (MARN). On October 15, 2002, MARN issued an environmental permit under Resolution 474-2002 for the SCMP. On October 20, 2002, MARN issued an environmental permit under Resolution 493-2002 for the Renewed SSGM Exploitation area. Financial security bond(s) have been submitted as required.
Environmental regulations add to the cost and time needed to bring new mines or mills into production and add to operating and closure costs for mines already in operation. As the Company places more mines into production, the costs associated with regulatory compliance can be expected to increase. Such costs are a normal cost of doing business in the mining industry, and may require significant capital and operating expenditures in the future. The Company cannot accurately predict or estimate the impact of any future laws or regulations developed in El Salvador that would affect the Company’s operations.
All operations by the Company involving the exploration or the production of minerals are subject to existing laws and regulations relating to exploration and/or exploitation procedures, safety precautions, employee health and safety, air quality standards, pollution of water sources, waste materials, odor, noise, dust and other environmental protection requirements adopted by the El Salvador governmental authorities. The Company is required to prepare and present to such authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration, exploitation or production of minerals may have upon the environment. The requirements imposed by any such authorities may be costly, time consuming and may delay operations. Future legislation and regulations designed to protect the environment, as well as future interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may require substantial increases in equipment and operating costs to the Company and delays, interruptions, or a termination of operations. The Company cannot accurately predict or estimate the impact of any such future laws or regulations, or future interpretations of existing laws and regulations, on its operations.
San Felipe-El Potosi Mine (“Potosi”) and its extension the El Capulin Mine (“El Capulin”)
Potosi Location
The Joint Venture had commenced an exploration program on the Potosi property which is located approximately 18 miles northwest of the city of San Miguel, the third largest city in the Republic of El Salvador, Central America, on a paved road 15 miles to the city of Chapalteque and then west three miles on a gravel road to the city of Potosi. The historical records and the exploration work performed by the Company indicate that the potential of developing a gold mine is above average.
Potosi Lease Agreement
The Joint Venture entered into a lease agreement with the San Felipe Potosi Cooperative (“Cooperative”) of the city of Potosi, El Salvador on July 6, 1993, to lease the real estate for a period of 30 years, with an option to renew the lease for an additional 25 years, for the purpose of mining and extracting minerals. Although the Company did not receive a concession/license from the DHM, it is preserving its rights under the lease agreement.
Modesto Mine
Modesto Mine Location
The Modesto Mine is located due north of the town of El Paisnal, approximately 19 miles north of the capital city, San Salvador, in the Republic of El Salvador, Central America.
Modesto Mine Present Status
On or about September 2, 1993, the Joint Venture, acting as a nominee through one of its employees, filed an application with the DHM to explore the 4,000 hectares (9,800 acres) of property known as the Modesto Mine. The application, together with the consent to explore this area from the property owners owning more than 25% of total area, has been submitted to the DHM. Also, the Joint Venture had submitted its original plan to this governmental agency on January 24, 1994, outlining its exploration program. In order to comply with the current mining regulations adopted by the Government of El Salvador during February 1996, the Joint Venture filed an exploration concession application on April 21, 1997.
After completing the necessary surveying, mapping and planning, the Joint Venture proceeded to clean and trench the surface and adit vein exposure. Since August 1993, 3,084 metric feet of surface channel trenching (10,177 feet) and 866 meters (2,858 feet) of adit cleaning were completed. In addition, four inclines have been excavated for entry. A total of 4,027 fire assay samples were performed revealing an average grade of 0.035 ounces per ton. The Joint Venture suspended its exploration during July 1997 as the Government of El Salvador awarded the concession of the property to another mining company. The Company believes that it owns the title to key property, therefore permission from the Company will be required before entry can be made by others. The Joint Venture, upon advice of legal counsel, intends to file an application for a concession (license) on the property it owns.
Montemayor Mine (“Montemayor”)
Montemayor Location/Ownership
The Joint Venture has obtained leases for more than 175 acres of the surface rights from a number of property owners which permit the Joint Venture to enter their property for the purpose of exploring, exploiting and developing the property and then, if feasible, to mine and extract minerals from this property. The term of this permission is for an infinite period. The Company believes that this leased real estate contains the “heart” of the mine. Montemayor is located about 14 miles northeast of the SCMP, six miles northwest of the SSGM and about two and one-half miles east of the city of San Francisco Gotera in the Department of Morazan, Republic of El Salvador. Historical records evidence that the potential for the Montemayor to become an exploration and development silver-gold producing prospect is excellent.
San Cristobal Mill and Plant (“SCMP”) Recovery and Processing System
SCMP Location
SCMP is located near the city of El Divisadero (bordering the Pan American Highway), and is approximately 13 miles east of the city of San Miguel, the third largest city in the Republic of El Salvador, Central America.
SCMP Lease Agreement
Although the Joint Venture owns the mill, plant and related equipment, it does not own the land and certain buildings.
On November 12, 1993, the Joint Venture entered into an agreement with Corporacion Salvadorena de Inversiones (“Corsain”), an El Salvadoran governmental agency, to lease for a period of ten years (expiring November 12, 1993), approximately 166 acres of land and buildings on which its gold processing mill, plant and related equipment (the SCMP) are located, and which is approximately 15 miles west of the SSGM site. The basic annual lease payment was U.S. $11,500, payable annually in advance, unless otherwise amended, and subject to an annual increase based on the annual United States’ inflation rate. As agreed, a security deposit of U.S. $11,500 was paid on the same date and this deposit was subject to increases based on any United States’ inflationary rate adjustments. This lease agreement expired.
On April 26, 2004, a three-year lease, which includes an automatic additional three-year extension subject to Corsain’s review, was executed by and between Corsain and the Company. This lease is retroactive to November 12, 2003 and the monthly lease payments are $1,418.51 plus the El Salvadoran added value tax. The lease is subject to an annual increase based on the U.S. annual inflationary rate adjustments. The SCMP is strategically located to process ore from other mining projects.
SCMP Mill and Plant Process Description
Current Status
The SCMP (a precious metal cyanidation carbon-in-leach system) has a capacity of processing up to 200 tons of virgin ore per day. The following units of operations are required: crushing, grinding, thickening, agitated leaching and recovery of precious metals via a carbon-in-leach (CIL) system.
The SCMP has been designed to process up to 500 tons of virgin ore per day. The SCMP operations were suspended as of December 31, 1999, as the plant, equipment, and facilities have been placed on a care and maintenance status until such time as the Company has sufficient funds to complete a major overhaul in order to place it into operating condition and at a time the price of gold is stabilized to assure a profit.
SCMP Project Operating Plan
Current and Anticipated Production Schedule
Preproduction development, consisting primarily of expansive road and site improvements to the mine and mill sites, mill equipment modifications and the development and hauling of virgin ore has taken place during the past years. Initial production from April 1, 1995 was from the SSGM tailings. After the SSGM tailings’ resource was exhausted, virgin gold ore was excavated from the SSGM surface (Coseguina area) and hauled to the SCMP site for processing.
The other sources of gold ore from the SSGM to be used at the SCMP operation will be obtained from the stope fill or higher grade gold ore after obtaining access via the underground workings or from the surface of the main ore body. This gold ore will have to be crushed and pulverized, which increases the cost, but is expected to yield a 90% or higher recovery. The income, dependent on the market price of gold from the higher grade and recovery of gold ore, is expected to be substantially more than the cost involved, providing that the world gold market price does not decline to a level of unprofitability.
The gold ore from the SSGM open-pit was loaded onto 20-25 ton dump trucks for transport to the SCMP. Trucks then hauled the gold ore on the Pan American Highway approximately 15 miles from the SSGM. Mine employees are responsible for the mining activities including the determination of areas to be excavated, trucking and loading operations, head sampling and sample analysis.
The gold ore was received at the SCMP where it was weighed, logged, and sampled. Weighing is performed utilizing a conveyor belt scale and/or a truck scale located on the SCMP site. The excess gold ore was then unloaded at the SCMP site and stockpiled in an area which was developed to allow storage of more than 50,000 tons.
Environmental Matters
Reference is made to San Sebastian Gold Mine “Environmental Matters.” The same information applies. On March 15, 2006, the Office of the El Salvadoran Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources issued an environmental permit (Resolution 3026-003-2006) to the Company.
The Joint Venture Laboratories (Lab)
The Joint Venture has two laboratories: one located at the SCMP facilities and the other on real estate owned by the Company near the SSGM site. A total of 78,441 samples of exploration fire assays have been logged through March 31, 2006. This total does not include the assays that were performed for production purposes.
Corporate Headquarters
The Company leases approximately 4,032 square feet of office space for its corporate headquarters on the second floor of the building known as the General Building located at 6001 North 91st Street, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, at a monthly rental charge of $2,789 on a month-to-month basis. The lessor is General Lumber & Supply Co., Inc. (“General Lumber”), a Wisconsin corporation. The Company’s President, Edward L. Machulak, owns 55% of the common stock of General Lumber. Edward L. Machulak disclaims any interest in the balance of General Lumber common stock which is owned by relatives, his wife, and a trust formed for the benefit of his children. In addition, the Company shares proportionately any increase in real property taxes and any increase in general fire and extended coverage insurance on the property. In lieu of cash payment, the Lessor has agreed to apply the monthly rental payments owed to the secured open-ended, on-demand promissory note(s) due to it.
Item 3.