ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Mining Properties and Real Estate
The table below provides a summary of the most significant mining properties in which the Company has an interest. More detailed information regarding each of these properties is provided in the text that follows:
Commerce Group Corp./San Sebastian Gold Mines, Inc. Joint Venture Properties all located in the Republic of El Salvador, Central America
Amount of Funds Date Date to Make Mine Interest Cost Property will be Property Nature of was of Opera- Opera- Description Interest Acquired Interest tional tional ----------- -------- -------- -------- ------ ------ 1. San Sebastian Mineral concession 1968 5% of the This is In opera- Gold Mine consisting of 100% gross dependent tion on located two ownership of the precious on the a limited and one-half precious metals metal scale of basis. miles north- extracted from this proceeds production west of the mine. or $206 that management city of Santa a month decides to Rosa de Lima whichever perform. The and the Pan is higher. amount of Anerican investment Highway. from $5 million to $100 million.
2. San Felipe- Application 07/06/93 5% of the Undetermined Undeter- El Potosi/ pending for gross until a mined. Capulin Mine mineral precious preliminary located near concession metal drilling the city of for 100% proceeds. program is Potosi, 18 ownership completed; miles north- of the precious estimated cost west of the metals extracted of drilling is city of San from this mine. $2 million. Miguel.
3. Hormiguero Application 09/93 Dependent Undetermined Undeter- Mine located pending for if this until a mined. five miles mineral will be preliminary southeast concession an under- drilling program of the San for 100% ground or is completed; Cristobal ownership of surface estimated cost Mill and the precious operation. of drilling is Plant near metals extracted If under- $2 million. the city of from this mine. ground, Mine surface Comacaron. minimal channel trenching cost. If and adit cleaning surface, should be performed the use to determine of land drilling cost. (rent) is to be ne- gotiated.
4. Modesto Mine Application 09/93 It Undetermined Undeter- located near to be submitted appears until a mined. the city of for a mineral as if preliminary Paisnal and concession to this will drilling program about 19 own 100% of the be an is completed; miles north precious metals under- estimated cost of San extracted from the ground of drilling is Salvador, real estate owned operation $2 million. the capital by the Company. in the city. Company- owned land. Therefore, no cost for interest.
5. Montemayor Application 07/95 It Undetermined Undeter- Mine located to be submitted appears until a pre- mined. about 14 for a mineral that this liminary miles north- concession to will be drilling east of SCMP own 100% of the an under- program is and about precious metals ground completed; six miles extracted from mine, estimated northwest the areas the therefore cost of of SSGM. the Company leases. current drilling is leases $2 million. will have to be extended.
6. San Cristobal Mill and Plant Equip- Equipment To expand Limited Mill and owned by the ment purchased the plant, produc- Plant located Joint Venture. 02/23/93 and exten- including tion off the Pan The real estate Lease sive a crush- commenced American is owned by an 11/12/93 retrofit- ing system March Highway west agency of the ting was to a capa- 1995 of the city Government of performed. city of 400 expansion of El El Salvador. Through tons per program Divisadero. 03/31/98 day; an in pro- a total estimated gress. of sum of up $3,332,303 to $3 million has been may be required, invested all dependent in this whether new or plant used equipment and will be purchased. equipment.
The San Sebastian Gold Mine
General Location and Accessibility
The SSGM is situated on a mountainous tract of land consisting of approximately 1,470 acres of explored and unexplored mining prospects. The SSGM is located approximately two and one-half miles off of the Pan American Highway, northwest of the city of Santa Rosa de Lima in the Department of La Union, El Salvador. The tract is typical of the numerous volcanic mountains of the coast range of southeastern El Salvador. The topography is mountainous with elevations ranging from 300 to 1,500 feet above sea level. The mountain slopes are steep, the gulches are well defined, and the drainage is excellent.
There is good roadway access to the SSGM site. The city of Santa Rosa de Lima (approximately three miles from the SSGM) is a substantial trading center. The SSGM is approximately 30 miles from San Miguel, which is El Salvador's second largest city, and approximately 108 miles southeast of El Salvador's capital city, San Salvador. SSGM is also approximately 26 miles from the city of La Union which has port and railroad facilities. Major United States' commercial airlines provide daily scheduled flights to the Comalapa Airport which is located on the outskirts of the city of San Salvador. An airline commuter service provides daily flights to the cities of Santa Rosa de Lima, San Miguel, and La Union as well as other cities throughout El Salvador.
SSGM Reserves and Operation
Statistical production and financial data for the San Sebastian Gold Mine (SSGM) are shown on the following table:
San Sebastian Gold Mine (SSGM) Operation
03/31/98 03/31/97 -------- -------- PRODUCTION Tons ore mined and processed 59,596 74,350 Gold grade of ore (oz./ton) 0.087 0.080 Strip ratio (tons waste/tons ore) N/A N/A Gold production (oz.) (includes 259 oz. in inventory) 3,927 2,601 Silver production (oz.) 1,416 596 Recoverable gold inventory (oz.) 259 259
FINANCIAL Ounces of gold sold 3,667 2,601 Average gold price realized $ 315 $ 368 Revenue from mine operations (1) $1,234,443 $ 956,261 Cash operating cost per ore ton mined $ 14.72 N/A Cash operating cost per ounce (2) $ 198.24 N/A Total production cost per ounce (2) $ 276.43 N/A Operating earnings (3)(4) $ 117,700 N/A
MINEABLE RESERVES (03/31/98)
Contained Average Gold Tons Grade(5) Ounces ---- ------- --------- Ore - open pit 13,400,000 0.087 1,165,800 Dump waste 960,000 0.100 96,000 Stope fill (estimated) 1,000,000 0.340 340,000 ---------- --------- Totals 15,360,000 1,601,800
(1) Proceeds from 1997 gold sales credited against equipment purchases and development costs.
(2) As calculated under The Gold Institute's Production Cost Standard including $208,254 depreciation or $53.04 per ounce.
(3) Including a deduction for general administrative expenses of $36.67 an ounce.
(4) Excludes exploration and development drilling.
(5) The estimated recoverable ounces of gold by processing SCMP 82% - heap leach - 60%.
The tailings, dump material, and stope fill at the SSGM are the by-products of past mining operations. The tailings are the residue of higher grade ore once milled and processed to recover the then economically feasible fraction of gold present in the material. Most of the tailings have been processed. The dump material is actually gold ore which has been mined in the search for higher grades of gold ore and piled to the side of past excavations as it was considered at that time to be too low of a grade of ore to process economically. The stope fill also was considered to be too low of a grade of ore to process economically therefore it was primarily used to fill the voids in the underground workings of the past SSGM mining activities. Virgin gold ore, as the term is used in this report, is gold ore which is in the open pit and readily available for processing; it also includes the undeveloped underground gold ore.
Virgin gold ore at the SSGM represents the majority of the material (13.4 million tons) included in the Company's reserves. The Company plans to use an open-pit mining method and will truck the lower grade gold ore to one or more heap-leaching pads developed on site at the SSGM site. The use of open-pit mining and heap-leaching techniques will enable the Company to process a higher volume of gold ore than can be processed at the SCMP or through underground operations used by the Company and others in the past. The Company plans to continue to operate the SCMP after developing a leach-pad operation at the SSGM, using the facility to process the higher grade ore it encounters in the course of mining at the SSGM. The milling operation at the SCMP is expected to return a higher rate of gold recovery than can be expected from heap-leaching techniques.
The 960,000 tons of dump material present at the SSGM site has grades ranging from 0.082 to 0.178 ounces of gold per ton. An analysis of the stope fill which is all underground material was made by the Company's consulting geologist who has confirmed that about seven percent of the stope fill had been removed and processed during the 1973-1978 period. The grade of the stope fill averages 0.34 ounces of gold per ton. It is estimated that there are about one million tons available for SCMP treatment from the underground operations. It is necessary to remove the material which has caved in the adits to reach the stope fill areas.
All residue from the contemplated operations will be stockpiled for potential future processing dependent upon the price of gold, improvements in technology, and the depletion of better grading material.
Misanse Mining Lease
The Company (through the Comseb Joint Venture) leases the SSGM from Mineral San Sebastian, S. A. ("Misanse"), an El Salvadoran corporation. The Company owns 52% of the total of Misanse's issued and outstanding shares. The balance of the shares are owned by about 100 El Salvador, Central American and United States' citizens. (Reference is made to Note 7 of the financial statements for related party interests.)
On July 28, 1975, an amended lease agreement between Misanse as lessor and Sanseb as tenant was executed by the parties giving the tenant all the possessions and mining rights that pertain to the SSGM as well as other claims that may already have or could be claimed in the future within the 1,470 acre plat of land encompassing the SSGM. The lease was further amended to run concurrently with the concession described herein and may be extended for one or more equal periods by the tenant as long as the tenant has paid the rent and has complied with other obligations under the lease and the concession. The lease further provides that the tenant will pay rent to equal five percent of the gross gold production revenues obtained from the leased SSGM and further commits itself to maintain production taking into consideration market, political, and other conditions. In no case will the rent be less than 1,800 colones per month (approximately $206 per month at the current rate of exchange). The lease further provides that, in the event the lessor wishes to sell the property, it must first give preference to the tenant; the lease further provides that the tenant must give preference to employ its former mining employees and Misanse shareholders.
The lease is freely assignable by the Joint Venture without notice to Misanse. The lease may also be cancelled by the Joint Venture on thirty day's notice to Misanse and thereafter all legal obligations thereunder shall cease.
In the event that new extended bodies of ore are discovered, Misanse may be required to make proper claim for them through the Ministry of Economy of El Salvador's Department of Energy, Mines and Hydrocarbons, and include such claims in the present lease. Such addition to the lease is required to be made without additional rental payment, except that the expenses for procuring the concession shall be borne by the Joint Venture.
Misanse Mineral Concession-Government of El Salvador
In El Salvador, the rights to minerals are vested with the government. Mineral rights are granted by the government through concessions or licenses.
On January 27, 1987, the Government granted a right to the SSGM mining concession ("concession") to Misanse which was subject to the performance of the El Salvador Mining law requirements. These rights were simultaneously assigned to the Joint Venture.
On July 23, 1987, the Government of El Salvador delivered and granted to Misanse, possession of the mining concession. This is the right to extract and export minerals for a term of 25 years (plus a 25-year renewal option) beginning on the first day of production from the real estate which encompasses the SSGM owned by Misanse. Misanse assigned this concession to the Joint Venture. Under this concession and the then applicable El Salvador law, the Joint Venture has the right to export said minerals for five years beginning with the first day of production without imposition of mineral or export taxes. It also has the right to import free of duty, equipment and all other items necessary to operate the SSGM.
During February 1996, and effective 120 days thereafter, the Government of El Salvador adopted a revised mining law. This law grants longer exploration and exploitation terms. It also contains a provision that three percent of the gold receipts will be paid to the Government of El Salvador and an additional one percent is to be paid to the municipality where the mine is located.
The concession, or the right to mine gold, is subject to cancellation by the Government of El Salvador if there is an abandonment of the property such as if there is no demonstration that the concession holder intends to carry out exploration, exploitation, or development of the property in good faith during a six-month period after the concession is granted or if the work of exploration, exploitation or development is suspended for six months or if the exploration, exploitation or development is reduced to an extent that the effort used cannot be regarded as being reasonable in relation to the importance and resources of the mining property.
In the event of public disaster or disturbance of the public order, all mines in the given locality shall be regarded as being in exploration, exploitation or development without the necessity of any special formality. Such event did occur when, on November 11, 1989, the guerrillas attempted to seize the Country of El Salvador. On January 16, 1992, a peace accord and cease-fire agreement was entered into by the Government of El Salvador and its opposition. The transition from war to peace was effected without any serious occurrences and final peace was declared on December 15, 1992, with a three-year period to comply with the terms of the peace pact.
The work of a concession may be suspended by permission of a competent authority for a reasonable period not to exceed one year. An exception would be in case of acts of God or force majeure in which case the period may be extended successively as long as such reasons exist.
A concession may be fortified for lack of security measure, or if its condition would endanger the lives of workers, or for failure to comply with provisions of the Mining Code or other provisions enacted with respect to any aspect of exploitation in the mining industry, unless corrected within a reasonable period.
The Complimentary Mining Law states that, in addition to the cases mentioned in the El Salvador Mining Code, abandonment of the mine will be presumed if after a significant reduction or exhaustion of the veins, beds, or other formation in exploitation, three months is allowed to pass without adequate efforts either to exploit other deposits existing in the concession or to discover new deposits suitable for exploitation.
A concession may be granted for an unlimited time, as long as the concession holder complies with the conditions imposed by law. The Joint Venture's concession is for a period of twenty-five years, beginning on the first day of production, and with a right to extend it for an additional twenty-five years.
In addition, the El Salvador Constitution contains certain provisions which, although not referring specifically to mining, are applicable thereto. Article 138, for example, prohibits confiscation of property as a penalty or for any other reasons, but, in the event that any authority violates this prohibition, the confiscated property is imprescriptible.
SSGM Current Status
The Company, through its Joint Venture is conducting the following activities: It is in the exploration, development and pre-production mining stage which consists of completing its survey, mapping, site preparation, infrastructure, construction, planning, and in the performance of the auxiliary work needed to begin gold production at the SSGM site. Presently, the Company is seeking funding to purchase equipment, to purchase inventory, and to use for working capital for its on-site proposed open-pit, heap-leaching operation. In addition, the Company is actively engaged in the exploration and development of the peripheral area (including diamond core drilling) surrounding the main body of gold ore in order to increase its gold ore reserves.
The Company's main objective and plan, through the Joint Venture, is to operate a moderate tonnage, low-grade, open-pit, heap-leaching operation to produce gold on its SSGM site. Dependent on the funding, the grade of ore, and the tonnage processed, it anticipates producing more than 40,000 ounces of gold from its open-pit, heap-leaching operations during the first twelve full operating months and more thereafter.
A diamond drilling program with an independent contractor was initiated at the SSGM mine area to substantiate and expand the gold reserves. At the same time, pit walls were excavated and the old vein system was exposed to facilitate systematic sampling of the wallrock. This program demonstrated that true widths of up to 100 feet of altered and mineralized trachyte occur frequently in the open-pit and adjacent areas. Panel and surface channel sampling of these exposures revealed assays in the 0.03 to 0.20 ounce per ton gold range. In addition, underground workings on the Limon, Guaramal, Santa Elena, and Taladron veins are being rehabilitated.
SSGM Geology
The ore deposit consists of contact-fissure veins carrying gold-bearing pyrite. The veins occur at the contact between quartz-monzonite porphyry dike and surrounding eruptives which are basalt capped by trachyte. All the rocks are of recent age, probably late tertiary. The SSGM lies within a silicified and hydrothermally altered zone of acid to basic volcanoes roughly within a two-square kilometer area.
The occurrence is typical of the late stage deposition associated with instrusives in Island Arc plate tectonics dating millions of years (four to 65 million) ago. These are typically polymetallic precious metal-base deposits with high grade veining in large haloes of low grade resembling in part the Kuroko deposits in Japan. The dike is shaped like a flattened "s" and consists of a 2,800 foot long essentially vertical east-west segment, a northwest striking western section "dragged" sharply north for 800 feet and dipping 70 degrees northeast and a vertical south-east striking east.
The geology of the SSGM deposit is integrally linked to the presence of a quartz monzonite intrusive. This quartz monzonite has the appearance of being a high level sill and is probably coeval with the surrounding tertiary aged trachytes that form the main SSGM ridge. The geometric configuration of the quartz monzonite controls the localization of quartz veins and alteration of the trachytes. The overall structural control is east-west; according to historic mine records, the monzonite contacts with depth, but successive level plans suggest a funnel shaped structure plunging to the southeast. On a detailed scale, the quartz veins are controlled by a master set of parallel veins preferentially oriented east-west. The vein branch generally dips north and is interconnected by southeast dipping diagonal veins of variable strike. Mapping records describe veins as sinuous, further suggesting brittle stress regimens, with veins occupying dilational zones. These fissure style veins are up to five feet in width, and generally occur in trachyte or at the contact between trachyte and monzonite.
Pre and post mineral faulting is common throughout the deposit. The deposit is said to diminish when a basalt "basement" contact is approached at a depth, however basalt on top of San Juan Hill is also recognized. The funnel shape of the deposit, suggests however a potential synvolcanic structural control, with a source to the southeast. The San Juan area has not been tested by modern exploration techniques.
Based on data available at present, the hydrothermal system focused on SSGM has a dimension of approximately 3,500 feet in strike, a vertical extension of 1,100 feet (minimum) and an approximate width of 500 feet. The volume of hydrothermally altered rocks in the system prior to erosion is likely to have been in the magnitude of up to 200 million tons.
Gold occurs in the native form and also occurs rarely as a telluride. Pyrite is the predominant sulphide mineral in the deposit and it is the most common host to the fine grained gold. Copper minerals including bormite, chalcopyrite, chalcocite, tetrahedrite, enargite and luzonite have been identified. Gold mineralization is accompanied by silicification; other gangue minerals include kaolimite and sericite and more rarely barite. High grade gold streaks are associated with barite.
The SSGM deposit represents a bonanza gold system formed within a coeval high level alkaline intrusive-extrusive complex. Mineralization is more consistent with an acid sulphate system generated within an intracratonic caldera setting. The potential for SSGM to host millions of ounces of gold is considered to be excellent.
SSGM Ore Reserves
As of March 31, 1998, the SSGM has approximately 13.4 million tons of virgin proven gold ore reserves, grading 0.087 ounces of gold per ton and containing about 1.2 million ounces of gold. Overall the stripping ratio is low, ranging from zero in the Coseguina Hill area which is highly mineralized and consists of a series of high angle vertical veins to a possible stripping ratio of 1:3 to 1:8. It is planned to use these reserves; they will be screened, crushed and, if required, they will be agglomerated and placed on a proposed leach pad on the SSGM site. In addition, the Company's geologists have defined about one million tons of stope fill with a grade of 0.34 ounces per ton and approximately 960,000 tons of dump material with an average grade of 0.10 ounces of gold per ton.
Since July 1987 through March 31, 1998, the following exploration has been performed on the SSGM site: surface channel trenching, 34,946 meters (115,322 feet/21.8 miles); test pit hole excavations, 655 vertical meters (2,162 feet/.41 miles); underground workings and adit openings, 1,119 meters (3,693 feet/.70 miles). The surface samples from the trenching averaged 0.026 ounces of gold per ton over an area approximately 1,000 feet in width and approximately 5,000 feet in length. A total of 66,610 SSGM gold ore samples were fire assayed at the Joint Venture laboratory.
SSGM Diamond Drilling Program
The Company's geologists have reported that on the SSGM site a total of 26 diamond drill holes were completed. The average depth of each hole was approximately 118 meters (387 lineal feet). Therefore, approximately 3,068 meters were drilled (10,062 lineal feet). The drill holes were spaced about 100 meters (328 feet) apart and covered an area of one square kilometer (.386 square miles or approximately 250 acres). The drilling angle of each hole varied from 45 to 90 degrees.
This preliminary drilling confirms the Company's geologists' expectations that there are four basic types of rock: basalt, conglomerate, quartz monzonite, and trachyte. The mineralization and alteration is well distributed and even though low grade values of 0.68 grams (0.02 oz.) of gold per ton are found in the quartz monzonite, the economic values are found in the trachyte. In the trachyte, one hole intercepted a 12.2 meter (40 foot) vein of gold with an average grade of 15.08 grams (0.44 oz.) of gold per ton. The Company's geologists firmly believe that the potential of increasing the gold ore reserves is excellent. Additional drilling is required to expand the gold ore reserves.
Proposed SSGM Open-Pit, Heap-Leaching Operation
The Joint Venture has placed the SCMP into a limited operation. It now intends to obtain a sum of $6 million or more to commence an open-pit, heap-leaching operation at the SSGM site. An additional $7 million or more is estimated to be required for the crushing system and mining equipment if the Joint Venture were unable to lease this equipment. After these funds are obtained, the Joint Venture intends to start processing gold ore from its open pit at a production level of 2,000 tons per day. During the second year, the production level plans are to expand production to 3,000 tons per day (the funds for this expansion could be generated from profits). An increase to process 4,000 tons of gold ore per day would take place during the third year and another expansion to process 6,000 tons per day would take place at the beginning of the fifth year; all funds for this expansion should be available through a combination of earned profits, borrowings, equity sales, or other sources. The independent feasibility study and the Company's Project Summary report comfortably support this program as the estimated projected production costs are substantially lower than a current $300 per ounce market price of gold. Pursuant to the geologists' report, the total volume of proven gold ore reserves from the open-pit area amount to 13.4 million tons with an average grade of 0.087 ounces of gold per ton. With the anticipated production volume, there is at least an eight-year supply of gold ore. More gold ore would be developed during this period of time as it is believed that a substantial amount of gold ore can be proven.
The leach pad site consisting of approximately three acres on the SSGM property was chosen because of the relatively even grade level, the access to water supply, electric power, roads, telephone service, and because of its close proximity to the open-pit area.
Gold ore will be crushed to produce stones of a size which will maximize gold recovery. If required, lime and cement will be added "agglomerated" to such gold bearing material that will require this process to assist the heap-leaching operation, in accordance with metallurgical recommendations.
A leach pad will be constructed with a plastic liner sandwiched between layers of gravel to protect its integrity. On top, the liner will be protected with a six-foot layer of one-inch gravel comprised of gold-bearing material. Material to be processed and agglomerated will be heaped in stages an additional 20 feet on top of this protective layer if necessary and then removed at the end of the leaching cycle.
Basically, this process involves the placement of material containing gold onto a "pad" which is impermeable to liquids, sprinkling the "heap" with a water-based chemical solution which will dissolve the gold as it percolates through the material, collecting the solution at the bottom of the heap as it runs off the pad, and then recovering the gold from the solution. The chemical solution is actually recycled through the heap many times before it is processed, in order to maximize the recovery of gold and to recycle the chemicals.
Gold laden cyanide solution will be collected at the base of the pad and then will be filtered through a series of carbon adsorption columns (a series of open-topped tanks) where the gold will be drawn out of the solution and into beds of granular activated carbon. Next, the carbon from the columns will be washed with acid to strip the gold from the carbon into a more concentrated solution. Lastly, gold will be removed from this acid solution by electrolysis (the same process used in gold-plating) first by collecting the gold on steel wool type cathodes, and then by electrolytically transferring the gold to a charged metal plate in another acid solution. After their use in processing a batch of gold, the cyanide and acid solutions, as well as the carbon, will be replenished and recycled to process the next batch. The balance of this procedure is similar to the existing SCMP process.
Also, the Joint Venture has its own SSGM on-site laboratory with full-time, trained personnel working three shifts to fire assay the gold ore samples. It also has two full-time surveying crews consisting of ten persons.
SSGM Ownership of the Property
The San Sebastian Gold Mine real estate consisting of approximately 1,470 acres, is owned by Misanse, a Salvadoran corporation. The Company owns 52% of Misanse common shares that are issued and outstanding. Over 75,075 fire assay samples have been performed through March 31, 1998.
Environmental Matters
Since the Government of El Salvador has established a new mining law effective February 1996, its exploration, development, and production programs are subject to environmental protection. The El Salvador Department of Mines and Hydrocarbons, a division of the Minister of Economy's office regulates the mining operations.
Environmental regulations add to the cost and time needed to bring new mines or mills into production and add to operating and closure costs for mines already in operation. As the Company places more mines into production, the costs associated with regulatory compliance can be expected to increase. Such costs are a normal cost of doing business in the mining industry, and may require significant capital and operating expenditures in the future. The Company's policy is to adhere to North American standards in its El Salvador operations. The Company cannot accurately predict or estimate the impact of any future laws or regulations developed in El Salvador that would affect the Company's operations.
All operations by the Company involving the exploration for or the production of minerals are subject to existing laws and regulations relating to exploration procedures, safety precautions, employee health and safety, air quality standards, pollution of water sources, waste materials, odor, noise, dust and other environmental protection requirements adopted by the El Salvador governmental authorities. The Company may be required to prepare and present to such authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration for or production of minerals may have upon the environment. The requirements imposed by any such authorities may be costly, time consuming and may delay operations. Future legislation and regulations designed to protect the environment, as well as future interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may require substantial increases in equipment and operating costs to the Company and delays, interruptions, or a termination of operations. The Company cannot accurately predict or estimate the impact of any such future laws or regulations, or future interpretations of existing laws and regulations, on its operations.
The Company has submitted an environmental impact study prepared by an independent El Salvadoran consultant which is under review.
San Felipe-El Potosi Mine ("Potosi") and its extension the El Capulin Mine ("El Capulin")
Potosi Location
The Joint Venture has commenced an exploration program on the Potosi property which is located approximately 18 miles northwest of the city of San Miguel, the second largest city in the Republic of El Salvador, Central America, on a paved road 15 miles to the city of Chapalteque and then west three miles on a gravel road to the city of Potosi. The historical records indicate that the potential of developing a gold mine is above average.
Potosi Historical Information
Historical records evidence that exploration and production of gold took place in 1899 and that Potosi was worked intermittently from 1906 through 1952. The main production period in six levels was from 1938 through 1952 at a rate of 35 to 50 tons per day. Production data avouch that 30,000 ounces of gold were produced from 1945 through 1952 after which the mine became dormant. During this time a limited underground exploration program confirmed that the gold ore reserves were of commercial value. The gold assays from some of the former drill hole samples on the southern extension of the north-south portion of this property showed a grade of 0.10 to 0.35 ounces of gold per ton of ore.
Potosi Geology
The Potosi vein type occurrences are very strong, persistent, poor quartz-calcite fissure fillings from two to ten feet wide and up to 3,400 feet in length. On a regional scale, the veins are fairly straight-forward type structures but in detail they can be complicated. Dips in the north-south veins are steeper than in the lattice systems such as the 50 degrees to 90 degrees in the Potosi type. The proportion of gold-to-silver increases in north-south striking veins or in veins of any orientation whose dips more closely approach the vertical.
Two relatively narrow north-south veins, 450 feet apart, have been worked in the past by vertical and an inclined shaft for up to 2,100 feet along the strike and to depths of between 180 and 440 feet below surface on four to six levels. The veins are contained in coarse-grained augite andesites. The larger of the veins is up to ten feet in width, dipping 55 degrees to 75 degrees west. The second vein is weaker in structure and about three feet in width. Gold values seem to be indiscriminately associated with quartz and do not seem to diminish at depth. Assay plans and ore reserve sections completed in 1952 show 30 blocks with an average grade of 0.6563 ounces of gold per ton. Holes drilled from the projected extension of the north-south portion of one of the veins returned various five-foot sludge samples grading 0.10 to 0.35 ounces of gold per ton with a one foot of core length grading at 0.39 ounces of gold per ton. It appears that the deposition took place at higher temperatures than attributed to silver, thus the vertical zoning of gold deposition is deeper or has a larger vertical dimension than silver; therefore the possibility of considerable ore below levels is a realistic one. The age mineralization is past laramide with the host rock being rhyolite. The previous gold-silver ratio was 0.3:1.
Potosi Tailings' Reserve
Since October 25, 1993, Comseb has had a full-time crew, ranging from 25 to 30 employees, conducting an exploration program consisting of surveys, channel trenching, adit openings, test pit holes, excavation and drilling of the tailings to determine its gold content.
Twenty-four test pit hole excavations have been plotted and drilled on this four-acre site of tailings. The depth to the bottom of the tailings' pile varied from 7.00 to 10.2 meters (23 to 34 vertical feet) and a total of 137.6 meters (454 feet) of test pit hole excavations were completed. The 573 fire assay samples (tailings) indicated an average grade of gold per ounce to be 0.06 (0.06 times 185,000 tons should contain 11,100 ounces of gold times a 70% recovery should yield about 7,770 ounces of gold).
Potosi and El Capulin Exploration Undertakings
A total of 2,388 meters (7,880 feet) of channel trenching was excavated with a grade ranging from 0.01 to 0.05 ounces of gold per ton. A total of 729 meters (2,406 feet) of adits has been restored for entry into the old workings. A total of 3,082 fire assay samples were completed with the results encouraging a drilling program. A tabulation of the work completed by the Joint Venture is as follows:
1. Potosi Surface
a. The exploration and excavation of 2,388 meters of surface channel trenches produced a total of 1,232 assay samples. These assay samples were fire assayed and reflected an average grade of gold of 0.02 ounces per ton. Two veins were intercepted which assays averaged 0.051 ounces of gold per ton. One vein encountered was 3.50 meters (11.55 feet) in width, while the other was 0.70 meters (2.31 feet) in width.
2. Potosi Underground Workings
a. Guayabito Adit: This adit was opened for a distance of 132.9 meters (439 feet) and a cross cut was encountered at 25 meters (83 feet) running to the west at which point a 0.40 meter (1.32 feet) thick vein was intercepted. The samples that were fire assayed reflected an average grade of gold of 0.012 ounces per ton.
b. Guarumo Adit: At a point south 15 degrees east a 1.70 meter (5.61 feet) thick vein dips 60 degrees to the west. This adit is all vein area. The fire assay samples proved an average of 0.05 ounces of gold per ton.
c. San Isidro Adit: From the entrance to sub level 25 meters (83 feet), a vein running south 13 degrees east was encountered. This sub level is located 5.65 meters (19 feet) below the entry level. The vein is 2.80 meters (nine feet) thick from which the assay samples reflected an average grade of gold of 0.022 ounces per ton.
d. Cacho de Oro Adit: This adit was cleared for entry and at a point 34 meters (112 feet), a crosscut was encountered which was advanced 23 meters (76 feet). The fire assay samples reflected an average grade of 0.07 ounces of gold per ton.
e. Canon 821: Exploration progress continues at this adit, Winze 821, the General Winze and Adit 2A. Pillars were found in Adit 2A about 105 meters (347 feet) from the entry.
3. The El Capulin Mine
a. The surface trench excavations over a distance of 750 meters (2,475 feet) and more than 400 fire assay samples revealed an average grade of 0.10 ounces of gold per ton. An area was outlined which estimated that there are more than 40,000 tons of gold ore with a grade that varies from 0.12 to 0.23 ounces of gold per ton.
b. In the Capulin Adit, a total of 188 meters (620 feet) was cleaned for entry; the goal is to reach the Capulin vein. The fire assay samples averaged a grade of 0.25 ounces of gold per ton.
4. Tailings
The 573 samples that were fire assayed reflected a grade of gold of 0.06 ounces per ton.
Exploration on this property will continue with channel trenching, re-opening of former adits, and to include diamond core and/or reverse circulation drilling, mapping and sampling of the known mineralized areas to determine if there is any commercial gold mineralization on this property. Diamond drilling may be utilized to outline the more promising shoots and to check for continuity of gold.
Potosi Exploration Concession
The exploration concession application was filed on September 6, 1993, with the Department of Energy, Mines and Hydrocarbons, a division of the El Salvador's Minister of Economy's office, by the owners of the real estate, the Cooperative San Felipe-El Potosi. An application for an exploration concession was filed on May 8, 1997 in order to comply with the current mining regulations adopted by the Government of El Salvador in February 1996. The concession consists of approximately 6,100 acres.
While the concession application is pending, it precludes any others from performing exploration on this site. Upon assessing that the property has potential mining prospects, the Joint Venture has the right and did apply for the mining concession.
Potosi Lease Agreement
The Joint Venture entered into a lease agreement with the San Felipe Potosi Cooperative ("Cooperative") of the city of Potosi, El Salvador on July 6, 1993, to lease the real estate for a period of 30 years and with an option to renew the lease for an additional 25 years, for the purpose of mining and extracting minerals and under the following basic terms and conditions:
1. The term of the lease will be for a period of 30 years plus an option to automatically extend the lease for an additional 25 years.
2. The lease payment will be five percent of the gross receipts derived from the production of precious metals from this site and will be payable monthly.
3. The Joint Venture will advance to the Cooperative the funds required to obtain the mining concession from the El Salvador Department of Energy, Mines and Hydrocarbons and all related costs will be reimbursed or will become a deduction from future rental payments.
4. The Joint Venture will, when it is in production, employ all of the 45 qualified members of the Cooperative, providing that there is a need for their particular skill or service.
5. The Joint Venture will furnish medicine and first aid medical assistance to all of its employees to the extent that such benefits are not provided by the El Salvador Social Security System.
6. An employee life insurance program is to be seriously considered by the Joint Venture when production commences, providing that the cost of such insurance is not excessive.
Environmental Matters
Reference is made to San Sebastian Gold Mine "Environmental Matters." The same information applies except that no environmental impact study is being conducted at Potosi or El Capulin at this time.
Hormiguero Mine ("Hormiguero")
Hormiguero Location
The Hormiguero is located approximately five miles southeast from the SCMP off of the Pan American Highway in the Departments of San Miguel and Morazan, Comacaran Jurisdiction, in the Republic of El Salvador, Central America. The Joint Venture plans to survey, map, plat, plan and develop an exploration program.
Hormiguero Current Status
The Joint Venture continues to develop an exploration program on the 5,000 acre site. An application for exploration has been filed on September 6, 1993 with the Department of Energy, Mines and Hydrocarbons, a division of the El Salvador Minister of Economy's office. In order to comply with the El Salvadoran Mining Law adopted during February 1996, an exploration application was filed on April 21, 1997.
The Hormiguero property continues to be in the stages of being mapped geologically and topographically on a referenced grid in order to provide a base to plan a drilling program with the objective to prove that a commercial body of ore may extend below the bottom of the former workings. This drilling activity would also determine if the faulted north end of the Gallardo vein continues. Further drilling could evidence the mineralization of unexplored veins.
1. Tailings: In an area of approximately 15,744 square meters (approximately four acres) 35 test pit holes at a total depth of 322 meters (1,063 feet) were excavated and the 705 samples that were fire assayed showed an average of 0.064 ounces of gold per ton; (0.064 ounces per ton multiplied by 150,000 tons should contain 9,600 ounces of gold).
2. The surface channel trenches consisting of 436 meters (1,439 lineal feet) were dug perpendicular to the Guadalupe vein and from a total of 155 samples in this area, 96 samples verified an average grade of 0.0177 ounces of gold per ton.
3. Taladron Adit: The purpose is to clean this adit for entry, in an attempt to intercept the Guadalupe vein at 61 meters (201 feet) below surface. A total of 122 meters (403 lineal feet) have been cleaned and the 188 fire assay samples reflected a grade of 0.07 ounces of gold per ton.
4. The more than 6,000 tons of broken ore (dump material) averaged a grade of 0.055 ounces of gold per ton. The same grade average was encountered in the Las Hormigas vein system in the Guadelupe dump material.
Hormiguero Geology and Historical Information
The following information was obtained from a report entitled, "Mining in El Salvador-United Nations Development Programs 1968-1971,":
". . . From 1913 to 1918 the Comacaran Gold Mining Co. produced 607,062 ounces of silver and 72,142 ounces of gold from 208,096 tons. (Swanquist), and when this company liquidated in 1919 the El Salvador Silver Mining Co., formed by some of the Butters Co. personnel, continued operations on a small scale until 1921. In 1930 the mine was reopened by the original property owners, the Gonzalez family, and functioned periodically until 1948, producing during the last 3 years about 21,000 ounces of silver and 3700 ounces of gold.
"Straight arithmetic averaging from the production figures gives an overall recovered grade of 0.351 oz. gold and 2.92 oz. silver for the period 1913-1918, or assuming a 10% mill less, a mill head of 0.386 oz. gold and 3.21 oz. silver. Mill records for 1917, the only surviving technical data, give a bullion production of 139,369.36 ounces of silver and 17,193.84 ounces of gold from 61,890 tons. A mill head calculated from this, again at 10% mill loss, was probably 0.30 ounces gold and 2.47 ounces silver.
"Although known locally . . . as `Hormiguero' the deposit is actually a composite of three separate sections, the Gallardo, Guadalupe and Hormiguero, all in coarse-grained andesite, grouped about and formerly connected by aerial tramway to a central mill situated immediately southwest of the Canton Hormiguero. The Gallardo and Guadalupe veins are strong, persistent structures striking 045 [degrees] and 020 [degrees] respectively and forming thin ridges 500 feet east and 1,750 feet west of the central mill. Both are composite and slightly braided structures composed of two main parallel branches 70 feet apart, and several interconnecting sub-branches, all dipping greater than 60 west. Vein material is banded and crustiform quartz-calcite, secondary manganese oxides and probaly [sic] rhodochrosite, weakly mineralized with pyrite, spalerite, galena and chalcopyrite. Strong proplylitization accompanied by considerable pyrite has attacked the andesites outward for about ten feet from the walls resulting in the formation of yellowish red, clayey oxidation products on surface.
"The Gallardo has been worked on six levels for 2050 feet along strike and 400 feet vertically. Access was through the Benjamin adit at the extreme southwest end and an inclined (61 [degrees]) shaft 350 feet from the northeast end. Two vertically plunging ore shoots 300 and 600 long and 500 feet apart were stoped to the 5th level where the larger bottomed, according to notations on a long section made by the El Salvador Silver Mining Co. in 1920. Limited stoping above the Benjamin adit suggests a third shoot in that area and a possible unexplored prolongation of the vein towards the southwest. An abrupt cut-off of the north (larger) ore shoot coincident with the north end of the mine may be due to lateral fault displacement; an undeveloped segment of the vein might therefore be anticipated further north.
"Horizontal development of the Guadalupe vein opened a 1600 foot strike length on both a hanging wall and footwall branch, but the dip, exposed on five levels to 350 feet has been examined in an unsystematic manner more suitable for exploration than exploitation. Little ore has in fact been taken from underground; most of the production appears to have come from open cuts. The only regular mining has been confined to a 400 foot lens on the footwall branch, 150 feet south of the main three-compartment production shaft, which was from surface 200 feet vertically to the third level, and from a small irregular shoot directly opposite it in the footwall branch. Outside of these, the underground layout leaves the general impression that the distribution of ore grade mineralization is highly erratic and randomly dispersed.
"1100 feet, and north of the Gallardo and Guadalupe mines, five steeply north (?) dipping, parallel, curving veins (Emilio, Oriente Emilio, Hormiguero, San Francisco and 4 de Julio) evenly spaced over a width of 200 feet, constitute the separate Hormiguero mine. They lie between the hypothetical northward prolongation of the Gallardo and Guadalupe structures and have been worked over an aggregate strike length of 1200 feet starting from a point 700 feet west of the Guadalupe projection first 500 feet east-west then through a 700 foot arc curving to the southwest into alignment width, and 900 feet north of the north end of the Gallardo vein. At least 7 levels were developed to a depth of over 400 feet from a vertical 2 compartment shaft. The amount of stoping is unknown; the available data show that irregular 100 to 200 foot long shoots were worked to depths of 300 and 400 feet on the east-west striking portions of the San Francisco and 4 Julio veins.
"Four other virtually unexplored veins known as La Gloria or Esperanza, Victoria or Tilden, Tecolote and El Dorado, occur 500 to 900 feet west of the Gallardo and Hormiguero mines. The Gloria and Tecolote strike east-west; the remaing [sic] two are roughly parallel to the Gallardo. In a letter dated 1919, a geologist named Mr. Swanquist states that initial exploration and very limited mining obtained `encouraging results' from the Tecolote and `fair ore' from the El Dorado.
"The same letter mentions two additional prospects, the Consuelo of unknown location but `700 feet from the plant and just being opened up' and the La Posa, on the Las Garzas river, north of Canton Hormiguero from which ore grading $10.92 per ton ($20.00 gold and $1.11? [.385] silver), with values mainly in silver, was mined over 4 to 5 foot widths, in a 35 foot winze."
In 1921, i.e. during El Salvador Silver Mine's final year of operation, the following ore reserves were blocked out:
Proven: (U.S. dollar values based on a $20.00 per ounce gold price and a $0.385 per ounce silver price.)
Dollar Value Tons Grade Per Ton ---- ----- ------------- Guadalupe Hanging Wall Vein 11,208 0.353 $7.06 Guadalupe Footwall Vein 7,528 0.319 $6.37 Hormiguero and Gallardo 10,000 0.400 $8.00 ------ Total: 28,736 Probable: Dollar Value Tons Grade Per Ton ---- ----- ------------- Guadalupe Hanging Wall Vein 21,900 0.295 $5.89 Guadalupe Footwall Vein 23,556 0.340 $6.80 ------ Total: 45,456
(Proven and probable gold and silver ore reserves total 74,192 tons.)
Exploration should center on the undeveloped veins, on the possibility of extending the Hormiguero veins farther to the east and west, and on the unexplored ground between the north end of the Gallardo vein and the Hormiguero.
Hormiguero Ownership
This real estate is owned by various individuals and families and the Joint Venture has received permission from the land owners to explore approximately 150 acres of the core of the mining property.
Environmental Matters
Reference is made to San Sebastian Gold Mine "Environmental Matters." The same information applies except that no environmental impact study is being conducted at Hormiguero at this time.
Modesto Mine
Modesto Mine Location
The Modesto Mine is located due north of the town of El Paisnal, approximately 19 miles north of the capital city, San Salvador, in the Republic of El Salvador, Central America.
Modesto Mine Geology and History
From its geologist and from the records available to the Joint Venture, the following information was obtained:
Two persistent veins "Paredon" and "Chicharron" outcrop along the crests of two parallel hogback ridges 1,900 meters apart, and are composed of thick flat-lying andesite flows capped by discontinuous patches of rhyolite. These were examined in 1948-1950 by M. Buell along strike (45 degrees) for 2,240 meters and 2,760 meters respectively and down dip (60 degrees to 80 degrees southeast) a maximum of 25 meters. The Paredon vein was barren but the north-eastern 1,320 meters of the Chicharron returned the following values:
1. "D" winze, five meters deep, northeast end: 0.46 ounces of silver, 0.82 ounces of gold over 61 meters horizontally; 0.71 ounces of silver, 0.61 ounces of gold over 3.1 meters vertically from quartz of undetermined orientation in rhyolite; 0.30 ounces of silver, 1.20 ounces of gold from a 15-ton dump and a value of $14.653 per ton from a ten-ton dump. (The market price of gold was pegged at $35 an ounce.)
2. "S" winze, 420 meters southwest of "D" winze: no values.
3. "5" winze, 882 meters southwest of "D" winze: 1.85 ounces of silver, 0.65 ounces of gold over an average of 1.0 meter to a depth of 11 meters below outcrop. A 30-ton dump ran 2.28 ounces of silver and 0.82 ounces of gold.
4. "14" winze, 1,320 meters southwest of "D": 0.78 ounces of silver, 0.22 ounces of gold to 19 meters below outcrop. A 60-ton dump ran 0.15 ounces of silver, 1.14 ounces of gold; average of six dump samples was 0.68 ounces of silver, 0.31 ounces of gold. A surface sample representing a ten-meter width of vein structure gave 0.06 ounces of silver, 0.09 ounces of gold, including 1.5 meters of 0.40 ounces of silver and 0.50 ounces of gold on the footwall.
A 155 meter crosscut, driven to intersect the vein 62 meters vertically below surface and 80 meters northeast of "14" winze encountered only weak quartz mineralization. Of 20 samples taken in 45 meters of drift, one returned 10.25 ounces of silver and 0.35 ounces of gold over 1.20 meters and the remaining 19 averaged less than 0.40 ounces of silver and 0.05 ounces of gold.
On 30 meters of drifting up to seven meters below surface at "5" winze, 1,095.6 tons grading 1.66 ounces of silver and 0.505 ounces of gold were indicated.
The mineralization is the Potosi type, very finely banded, milky, aphanitic, sulfide-free quartz, with a gold-silver ratio similar to El Dorado's. No calcite was seen on the dumps. Wall rock alteration is not noticeable on surface, however fine grained silicification and pyritization of the andesite appears on the "5" winze dumps.
Modesto Mine Ore Reserves and Exploration Results
The exploration through July 1997, has accomplished the following: Four bodies of gold ore have been blocked which contain approximately 18,800 ounces of a proven and probable grade of gold in 80,000 tons of ore with an average grade of 0.235 ounces of gold per ton.
The Modesto Mine appears to be a very good gold prospect. Since October 1993, three veins were discovered which extend over a length of one and one-half miles and a width of about one mile. The width of this area has a series of perpendicular and oblique tiny veins well dispersed which is a desirable ore for an open-pit operation.
The three vein systems disclosed the following:
(1) Chicharron Vein: Over a length of 2,550 meters (8,415 feet), 69 surface channel trenches were dug consisting of 567.0 lineal meters (1,871 feet) from which 2,015 samples were taken which averaged a grade of 0.05 ounces of gold per ton. This vein strike is at north 50 degrees east with a dip 70 degrees and consists of milky, brownish gray and white quartz surrounded by andesite.
(2) Intermidy Vein: This vein is at an offset angle to the Paredon vein. A total of 495 meters (1,634 feet) of surface channel trenching was excavated and 265 assay samples reflected an average grade of 0.025 ounces of gold per ton.
(3) Paredon Vein: This vein was explored by excavating five surface channel trenches over 1,200 meters (3,960 feet) and 89 fire assay samples reflected an average grade of 0.015 ounces of gold per ton.
Underground workings:
(1) Taladron Adit: From this adit entrance to a point of 257 meters (848 feet) along the north 85 degrees west strike, all of the blockage was removed to penetrate it. A total of 80 fire assay samples were taken in the basalt and barren quartz monzonite veinlits which assays averaged 0.035 ounces of gold per ton. This adit changed its direction to south 70 degrees west and at a point of 131 meters (423 feet) a broken vein with a basalt horse was intercepted. The former vein was found at the end of this adit which turned to the west and encountered the Chicharron vein which at this point was 13 meters (43 feet) in width and 26 meters (86 feet) from the top of the hill.
(2) Adit No. 10: This adit is above the Taladron Adit and it is the highest adit on this property. A total of 47 meters (155 feet) has been excavated and the 310 fire assay samples confirmed an average grade of 0.03 ounces of gold per ton. This adit follows a strike vein south 50 degrees west with a 55 degree easterly dip and encounters a vein at a width of 4.50 meters or 15 feet.
(3) Shaft No. 5: From the adit entrance, a total of 13.4 meters (44 feet) was cleared for entry. A sub level was discovered and this was cleaned at both ends north and south for a distance of 95.7 meters (316 feet) and 327 samples were fire assayed disclosing an average grade of 0.37 ounces of gold per ton. A total of 490 samples were taken from this sub level and from interconnecting levels. 75 samples were fire assayed revealing an average grade of 0.11 ounces of gold per ton.
Modesto Mine Present Status
After completing the necessary surveying, mapping and planning, the Joint Venture proceeded to clean and trench the surface and adit vein exposure. Since August 1993, 3,084 metric feet of surface channel trenching (10,177 feet) and 866 meters (2,858 feet) of adit cleaning were completed. In addition, four inclines have been excavated for entry. A total of 4,027 fire assay samples were performed revealing an average grade of 0.035 ounces per ton. The Joint Venture suspended its exploration during July 1997 as the Government of El Salvador awarded the concession of the property to another mining company. The Company believes that it owns the key property, therefore permission from the Company will be required before entry can be made by others. The Joint Venture, upon advice of legal counsel, intends to file an application for a concession (license) on the property it owns.
Modesto Mine Concession/Ownership
On or about September 2, 1993, the Joint Venture through one of its employees, filed an application with the El Salvador Department of Energy, Mines and Hydrocarbons to explore the 4,000 hectares (9,800 acres) of property known as the Modesto Mine. The application, together with the consent to explore this area from the property owners owning more than 25% of total area, has been submitted to the El Salvador Director of Energy, Mines and Hydrocarbons. Also, the Joint Venture had submitted its original plan to this governmental agency on January 24, 1994, outlining its exploration program. In order to comply with the current mining regulations adopted by the Government of El Salvador during February 1996, the Joint Venture filed an exploration concession application on April 21, 1997.
Environmental Matters
Reference is made to San Sebastian Gold Mine "Environmental Matters." The same information applies except that no environmental impact study is being conducted at Modesto at this time.
Montemayor Mine ("Montemayor")
Montemayor Location/Ownership
The Joint Venture has obtained leases for more than 175 acres of the surface rights from a number of property owners which permits the Joint Venture to enter their property for the purpose of exploring, exploiting and developing the property and then, if feasible, to mine and extract minerals from this property. The term of this permission is for an infinite period. The Company believes that this real estate contains the "heart" of the mine. Montemayor is located about 14 miles northeast of the SCMP, six miles northwest of the SSGM and about two and one-half miles east of the city of San Francisco Gotera in the Department of Morazan, Republic of El Salvador. Historical records evidence that the potential for the Montemayor to become an exploration and development gold-producing prospect is good.
Montemayor Geology and Historical Information
The following information was obtained from a report entitled, "Mining in El Salvador-United Nations Development Program 1968-1971":
"Montemayor-Lola Area
"The eastern and northeastern limits of the Three Corners area are defined by a scattering of three small mines and numerous prospects distributed along the course of the south-flowing Rio Montemayor in a system of parallel normal faults collectively known as the `Montemayor lineament'. Consistent with the origin proposed under `General Geology' these have been probably induced by subsidence along the northern margin of the central graben, resulting in a progressive tensional failure that has sliced the pyroclastic rocks of the area into a series of tabular blocks stepped successively upward to the northeast end culminating in the steep serrated ridges of the Copetillos escarpment. This has resulted in the creation of a 13,000 foot-wide regional `sheeted' zone composed of closely spaced, northwest striking, west dipping parallel faults, stretching for five miles northeast along the river and has imported to the river gorge an assymetric cross section whose higher, northeast slope is underlain by deeply dissected acid to basic tuffs and lower southwest slope by the low rolling andesitic, Three Corners terrain.
"Extensive veining in the fragmentals has produced a lengthy mineralized zone roughly coincident with the `sheating,' which includes the Montemayor deposit near the headwaters of the river and, arranged in en-echelon alignment downstream, the Tebanco, Lola, and Tepeyac occurrences and the minor Salamanca, Jimerito, Mina Grande, Copetilla and La Joya showings.
"The veins, which dip almost universally 50 degrees to 80 degrees southwest, are normal quartz-calcite, sulfide-poor fracture fillings, distinguished by their remarkable lateral persistence and unfortunate paucity of workable ore shoots. Sporadically distributed in lenses three to eight feet wide and up to 200 feet long and separated by longer stretches of barren ground, these have so far yielded enough tonnage to sustain mining operations only at the marginal Mina Lola. On the whole, however, the area is little explored.
"Montemayor
"The Montemayor property embraces a group of small mine openings and prospects aligned along a series of parallel southeast striking veins following the course of the Montemayor river for 16,000 feet, from its headwaters to the beginning of the pronounced `S' bend enclosing the old Tabanco mine. Some confusion over the names and locations of these various workings has always existed; for the purpose of this report, the following nomenclature, adapted from early maps of the district, will be employed. Proceeding upstreams [sic], the workings are:
"(a) Montemayor-comprises the Montemayor, Montanita and Santa Gertrudis sections, extending for 2700 feet upstream from the Caserio Montemayor.
"(b) Tempisque-4800 feet north of the Caserio Montemayor and 1200 feet up the east bank of the river.
"(c) Banadero-Carao-Carago-4500 to 8000 feet upstream from Tempisque.
"Mining was confined to Montemayor; appreciable underground exploration to Montemayor and Tempisque. No motor road reaches the properties; access is either by five kms. of the mule trail along the southwest bank of the river from the end of the Santa Rosa de Lima-Caserio El Tabanco road or cross-country about the same distance by mule trail from a north branch of the Gigante road. Trails also lead into the headwater area from the town of Sociedad.
"Historical information is sketchy. The area was almost certainly worked in conjunction with the Tabanco mine, first by the English company until about 1855, then the Cia. Francesa de Minas de El Salvador who operated it some time between 1856 and 1882 (Guzman). Until 1914 (?) no information is forthcoming; then the mine was comprehensively sampled by the Butters Co. and its successors between 1915 and 1921 and by the R.W. Habard Co. and Central American Mines around 1936. Apparently the only production from 1856 to 1936 was obtained by the English and French companies but the figures are unknown.
"Roberts and Irving report that the mine was again functioning at 60 tons per day in 1945 under Sr. Benjamin Gonzalez, yielded a value of $233,818 over a three year period. Grebe (1955) does not confirm this and the data may refer to the Hormiguero mine which Sr. Gonzalez had in production at that time. Finally in 1963 the principal showings were taken up by a local enterprise, Minas Montemayor, S.A. and received a little more attention up until 1967.
"The vein system is apparently controlled by a simple set of poorly exposed, northwest striking faults paralleling the river and outcropping occasionally in the river bed and rarely on the steep east slope of the river gorge. Dips are to the southwest between 50 degrees and 60 degrees. Vein mineralization is quartz-calcite with weak disseminated pyrite and a small quantity of chalcopyrite, spalerite and galena. The host rocks are a succession of coarse andesitic tuffs and agglomerates, fine acid tuffs and flows propylitized along the veins, and locally silicified towards the north end of the zone of mineralization.
"Formal mining was confined to three parallel veins spaced over a 500 foot interval up the east bank from the creek, at Montemayor. The footwall Montanita vein was opened for 200 and 250 feet respectively on two levels about 70 feet apart, served by a winze and two crosscuts, and stoped over 100(?) feet on the upper level and 200(?) feet on the lower. Two levels opened at 115 and 215 feet off a 2 compartment shaft traced the middle (Montemayor) vein for 640 feet and disclosed a 200 foot long ore shoot, centered on the shaft and partially stoped before 1917, that might have graded around 12 ounces silver and 0.29 ounces gold. On this same structure, 1250 feet north of the shaft in the separate Santa Gertrudis section, perhaps 9000 tons grading $31.00 at gold and silver $0.507 were extracted from a 90 by 220 foot area, averaging 7 feet wide, developed on four levels through a second vertical shaft.
"The hanging wall `sulfide' vein located 40 feet west of the Montemayor is apparently more heavily mineralized but contained no ore over 75 feet of drifting driven from the lower Montemayor level.
"On the Tempisque showing, two levels, 30 feet apart vertically and served by two adits, have revealed 520 feet of the Tempisque vein running 5.49 oz. silver and 0.14 oz gold over a 2.7 foot width, according to sampling by the R.W. Hebard Co. in 1936. Check sampling by the present owners in 1966 returned an indicated grade of 3.68 oz. silver and 0.115 oz. gold over four feet, on the lower level.
"Work on the Carago section has been purely exploratory; the only surviving records (map MM-8) show an average width of 2.3 feet of 9.95 ounces silver and 0.16 ounces gold in a 60 foot shaft and a 160 foot long drift, spaced 280 feet apart."
Montemayor Current Status
1. Surface channel trenching:
From July 19, 1995 through July 1997, 55 surface channel trenches were excavated over a 920 meter (3,036 feet) length. In the Banadero area, from 29 trenches, 375 fire assay samples contained an average grade of 0.036 ounces of gold per ton.
The remaining 26 surface channel trenches were excavated in the Montemayor area: the 103 fire assay samples averaged 0.022 ounces of gold per ton.
2. Underground adits and workings:
The underground adits consisting of more than 763 meters (2,518 lineal feet) revealed a variable range of gold and silver ore grade. From the 368 samples assayed, the gold/silver grade ranged from 0.01 to 0.20 ounces per ton.
On April 22, 1997, a current exploration concession was filed with the Minister of Economy's office in order to comply with the El Salvadoran Mining Law adopted on February 1996. During July 1997, the Department of Mines and Hydrocarbons has awarded the concession to others. Since the Joint Venture has leases on the surface of key real estate, it cannot be forced to allow others on this key part of the property. The Joint Venture, upon advice of its legal counsel, intends to file an application for a concession (license) on the property it leases.
Environmental Matters
Reference is made to San Sebastian Gold Mine "Environmental Matters." The same information applies except that no environmental impact study is being conducted at Montemayor at this time.
San Cristobal Mill and Plant ("SCMP") Recovery and Processing System
SCMP Location
SCMP is located near the city of El Divisadero (off of the Pan American Highway), and is approximately 13 miles east of the city of San Miguel, the second largest city in the Republic of El Salvador, Central America.
SCMP Lease Agreement
Although the Joint Venture owns the mill, plant and related equipment, it does not own the land and certain buildings. Since February 23, 1993, the Joint Venture attempted to either lease or purchase this real estate from an Agency of the El Salvador Government, Corporacion Salvadorena de Inversiones ("Corsain"). On November 12, 1993, the Joint Venture entered into an agreement with Corsain to lease approximately 166 acres of land and the buildings for a period of ten years. The annual rental charge is U.S. $11,500 payable in advance and subject to annual increases based on the United States' percentage rate of inflation. Also as agreed, an $11,500 security deposit was required and this deposit is subject to an annual increase based on the U.S. inflation rate. The premises are strategically located to process gold ore from the other mining prospects that are in the exploration stage.
SCMP Mill and Plant Process Description
On February 23, 1993, at a foreclosure auction held by an El Salvador Court, the Company, on behalf of the Joint Venture, was the successful bidder in acquiring SCMP, a precious metals' cyanide leaching mill and plant rated with a capacity of processing 200 tons of virgin ore per day consisting of the following unit operations: crushing, grinding, thickening, agitated leaching, counter current decantation of leach solution, recovery of precious metals by zinc precipitation (Merrill-Crowe), and direct smelting of precipitates to produce precious metals as dore and tailings' disposal.
Instead of utilizing the existing recovery system, the Joint Venture's engineers have designed a carbon-in-leach (CIL) process.
On February 23, 1993, the Company, on behalf of the Joint Venture acquired SCMP, a precious metals' cyanide leaching mill and plant rated with a capacity of processing 200 tons per day which utilized the following unit operations: crushing, grinding, thickening, agitated leaching, counter current decantation of leach solution, recovery of precious metals by zinc precipitation (Merrill-Crowe), and direct smelting of precipitates to produce precious metals as dore and tailings' disposal.
The Company's engineers recommended that this processing system be retrofitted and converted to process the SSGM tailings by a cyanidation carbon-in-leach (CIL) system to recover the residual cyanide soluble precious metals. The first pouring of gold on a test basis took place on March 31, 1995. The SCMP is being operated on a "start-up and build-up" to a gradual full capacity system during this trial and modification period.
Current Status
The start-up, testing and adjustment stage of processing the remaining SSGM tailings via trucking this ore to the SCMP has continued and the Joint Venture is still in its preliminary stage of producing gold. The SCMP is being designed to process 300/400 tons of virgin ore per day. The average grade was about 0.087 ounces of gold per ton.
During this fiscal year the Joint Venture did process at the SCMP approximately 60,000 dry tons (approximately 81,000 wet tons) of tailings which yielded 5,604 ounces of dore and accounted for 3,927 ounces of gold and 1,416 ounces of silver. The cash gross receipts amounted to $1,154,920.
SCMP Project Operating Plan
Production Schedule
Preproduction development, consisting primarily of expansive road and site improvements to the mine and mill sites, and delivery of virgin ore and expansive mill equipment modifications, has taken place during the last year. Initial production was from the SSGM tailings. Since SSGM's tailings' resource is exhausted, virgin gold ore is excavated from the SSGM surface and hauled to the SCMP site.
The other sources of gold ore from the SSGM to be used at the SCMP operation will be obtained from the stope fill or higher grade gold ore after obtaining access through the underground workings from the main ore body. This gold ore will have to be crushed and pulverized which increases the cost, but then the yield is expected to be about a 92% recovery. The income, dependent on the market price of gold from the higher grade and recovery of gold ore, will be substantially more than the cost involved, providing that the world gold market price does not decline below $200 an ounce.
The virgin ore and/or tailings are referred to herein as "gold ore." The gold ore from the SSGM open-pit is loaded onto 20-25 ton dump trucks for transport to the SCMP. Trucks then haul the gold ore approximately 15 miles from the SSGM. Mine employees are responsible for the mining activities including the determination of areas to be excavated, trucking and loading operations, head sampling and sample analysis.
The gold ore is received at the SCMP where it is weighed, logged, and sampled. Weighing is performed utilizing a conveyor belt scale and/or a truck scale located on the SCMP site. The excess gold ore is then unloaded at the SCMP site and stockpiled in an area which was developed to allow storage of more than 15,000 tons.
SSGM gold ore is transferred from the stockpile to a feed bin utilizing a rubber-tired wheel loader. The feed bin has a capacity of approximately 10 cubic yards (13.5 tons). The feed is fed at a controlled rate onto a conveyor, which transfers the ore to the next part of the process. The conveyor includes a belt scale (weightometer) for instantaneous determination of feed rate and totalizing of tonnage fed to the process.
The Joint Venture completed a certain stage of the retrofitting, rehabilitation, repairing and restoring of the SCMP's plant and it continues to perform such plant and equipment alterations, modifications and improvements to expand the SCMP's capacity to process 300/400 tons of virgin ore per day. It presently is producing gold on a limited production basis by processing the virgin ore from its SSGM open pit.
The Joint Venture has several sources of gold ore to process at the SCMP: the 185,000 tons of Potosi tailings which have an average grade of 0.06 ounces of gold per ton; the SSGM open-pit virgin ore; the dump material; and the ore and stope fill from the underground workings.
During the last fiscal period, primarily all of the processed ore at the SCMP operations came from the SSGM which could be processed with an up to 92% recovery grade or better. There is a sufficient amount of open-pit virgin gold ore that is being mined and transported to the SCMP. The recovery is about 90% or more of the gold which is substantially more than the expected 60% recovery of gold through the heap-leaching process.
The gold ore is transported via truck and placed in a primary crusher to reduce the size to approximately one half inch or less. A conveyor discharges into a chute and transports the material into the ball mills which serve as a repulper for the tailings and as a grinding process for the virgin ore. Virgin ore is fed through the first ball mill for grinding. The pulp is pumped to a cyclone where it is classified. The underflow goes to the second ball mill for regrinding and the overflow (fines) goes to a 20 mesh static sieve bend screen to remove any oversize or trash material. The second ball mill discharges a product and joins the first ball mill sump pumping making it a closed circuit with the use of the cyclone. Water is added to the solids in the ball mill to a pulp density of approximately 32% solids by weight and lime is added to raise the alkalinity of the pulp to approximately PH 10.5. After grinding, the slurry is transferred into the thickener. The excess water is removed from the thickener to raise the pulp density to approximately 45% solids which is an ideal density for the cyanidation process. The pulp is transferred by pump to the CIL system's #1 tank. Lime and liquid cyanide are added to the first leach tank to dissolve the gold. It then enters into a series of seven agitated leach tanks utilized for cyanide leaching of the pulp. This provides approximately 24 hours of leach retention time. One tank is maintained in operable condition as a standby unit.
Precious metals recovery is accomplished by utilizing carbon-in-leach (CIL) methods where activated carbon is utilized to adsorb the gold from the solution. Each leach tank is equipped with an air lift pump for inter-stage advancement of carbon, and an air swept cylindrical stationary interstage screen (.030 mesh) for retention of carbon and downstream gravity transfer of pulp. A 24 mesh carbon safety screen is attached to the end of the leaching circuit. An air blower provides air for operation of the air lifts and air sweep on the screens. Pulp loaded with precious metals in the carbon from the CIL process is passed over a carbon recovery screen where the carbon is retained and washed, and the pulp is directed back to the CIL process. The carbon is moved counter-current to the pulp flow in order that the highest possible gold loadings are obtained and highly active fresh carbon is maintained in the last leach tanks.
Liquid ferrous sulfate is added to the tailings to destroy any residual cyanide. Tailings from the CIL process are directed to the tailings' impoundment area using a slurry transfer pump. Tailings are stored in a tailings' impoundment area with tailings' water reclaimed as required.
Loaded (gold containing) carbon is transferred from the carbon recovery screen to the strip and acid wash circuits. The carbon is stripped utilizing atmospheric Zadra desorption methods, with the resulting pregnant strip solution reporting to electrowinning, where gold containing sludge is formed, which is pyrometallurgically refined on-site to dore metal. The carbon is acid washed to remove detrimental impurities prior to being transferred back to the CIL circuit.
Reagents (cyanide, lime) are made up in separate agitated mix tanks. The cyanide mix tank holds up to three days worth of 20% cyanide by weight solution. The lime mix tank holds up to a supply of three eight-hour shifts worth of 20% lime by weight slurry. The lime is pumped to the repulp tank and CIL process as required for alkalinity control. The cyanide is pumped to the CIL process and carbon strip circuit as required.
Process water is provided from mine sources and stored in a 40' thickener. Process water is pumped from the thickener to various locations throughout the process. If water treatment is required it is done by utilizing the thickener as a mixing/precipitation device.
Electricity is supplied by local public utilities. In the event power is discontinued for any reason whatsoever, an emergency generator to produce power is on site to maintain and provide the power needed.
SCMP Personnel
The SCMP employees, during this past year's start-up testing period (including its own trained security personnel) total about 144 persons. The SCMP is operated 24 hours per day, seven days per week and 52 weeks per year.
Environmental Matters
Reference is made to San Sebastian Gold Mine "Environmental Matters." The same information applies.
Comseb Laboratories (Lab)
The Joint Venture has two laboratories: one located at the SCMP facilities and the other on real estate owned by the Company near the SSGM site. At the SSGM Lab, the Joint Venture employs four employees for each of the twelve-hour shifts where a total of 70,075 samples of fire assays have been completed through March 31, 1998. Approximately four employees are working during the two eight-hour shifts at the SCMP laboratory.
Corporate Headquarters
The Company leases approximately 4,032 square feet of office space for its corporate headquarters on the second floor of the building known as the General Building located at 6001 North 91st Street, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, at a monthly rental charge of $2,789 on a month-to-month basis. The lessor is General Lumber & Supply Co., Inc. ("General Lumber"), a Wisconsin corporation. The Company's President, Edward L. Machulak owns 55% of the common stock of General Lumber. Edward L. Machulak disclaims any interest in the balance of General Lumber common stock which is owned by two of Mr. Machulak's brothers, his wife, and a trust for the benefit of his children. In addition, the Company shares proportionately any increase in real property taxes and any increase in general fire and extended coverage insurance on the property. In lieu of cash payment, the Lessor has agreed to apply the monthly rental payments owed to the secured open-ended, on-demand promissory note(s) due to it.
ITEM 3.