Item 2. "Properties," for information in respect of the new manufacturing facility. For more detailed description of the Company's future plans and its products, see the "--Plan of Operations," "Business Strategy" and "Technology and Products" sections of this Item 1. As a development stage company, to date, Lumenon has not generated product revenues and does not anticipate generating product revenues until 2001. It is subject to numerous risks, including risks associated with product development, growth, manufacturing and competition. See "Risk Factors" regarding the risks the Company will face in its growth and in the manufacture and marketing of its products.
Service providers like AT&T and MCI WorldCom are creating fiber optic networks to transmit large quantities of data and information at high speeds to accommodate the demand for applications such as the Internet, e-mail, and electronic commerce. Such service providers desire to increase the capacity of their networks to carry and deliver more information at high speeds without the additional costs of having to install new fiber optic cable. DWDM products allow providers to greatly increase their information carrying capacity on existing fiber at significantly lower cost. Existing DWDM products use the following technologies: thin film filters ("Thin Filters"), fiber Bragg gratings ("Bragg Gratings") or array waveguides ("AWG"). DWDM is a technology that allows multiple wavelengths of light (the information carrier) to be transported on a single fiber optical strand, increasing the carrying capacity of optical fiber and transmitting information at the speed of light. The multiplexing component of the DWDM allows different wavelengths of light (that is, different colors or channels of information) to be added to the optical fiber, which means more (dense) channels or communication pathways are added to existing optical fiber for simultaneous transport. To date, the solution to resolve capacity constraint has been to add or lay additional fiber in the ground or to use one of
three kinds of DWDM devices presently available. The devices can be circuits that have been etched into chips (AWG), Thin Filters or Bragg Gratings. See "Business Strategy, -- Establish Technology Leadership" for a detailed description of the three principal competing DWDM technologies. The use of DWDM technologies to add capacity is significantly less costly than that of the installation in the ground of new fiber, which installation method includes costs associated with construction, purchases of rights of way, work and regulatory permits and weather delays.
Lumenon makes DWDM products in the form of an AWG "optical chip" on silicon through a patented sol-gel manufacturing process. Lumenon acquired its rights to the sol-gel process under a license agreement with Ecole Polytechnique and McGill University. (See "Material Agreements - Agreement with Polyvalor and McGill University" for a description of the terms of such agreement.) To the knowledge of the Company, there are no other manufacturers of DWDM products on silicon using a sol-gel manufacturing process. Lumenon has chosen an optical chip form for its product development because it believes that its licensed process will allow it to provide high volume and high quality DWDM devices. These devices will address market demand that cannot be fully served by other devices manufactured with competing technologies. The bases for the Company's belief are: (i) lower capital investment in equipment for the sol-gel process, because there is no need for vacuum thin film deposition and vacuum coating technology; (ii) less manual labor (piece-work assembly) is required to make the AWG chip; (iii) fewer steps are required in the optical chip manufacturing process, which reduces the likelihood of manufacturing defects; and (iv) as the optical chip's channel count grows, the chip's cost does not increase proportionally. (See "Business Strategy" and "Technology and Products" sections of this Item 1. for a description of the Company's products and its strategy for such products.)
Lumenon has focused on developing and producing DWDM devices and products because DWDM technology offers a bandwidth solution to a potentially large market, the telecommunications market. The telecommunications market includes long distance, metropolitan, and access. Bandwidth or information carrying capacity is critical in each segment. DWDM is in a nascent stage for the metropolitan and access markets.
The functional currency of the Company is the Canadian dollar. All amounts presented in Canadian currency herein are identified as such. Other amounts are expressed in United States dollar.
Industry Background
Survey data on the size of the global and North American DWDM markets vary from source to source. What is common to all surveys is the fact that the DWDM market is large and growing at a compound annual growth rate of approximately 50%. The U.S. market for DWDM systems in 1995 stood at approximately US$50 million. According to Laser Focus World, the North American DWDM market reached US$1.3 billion and the global market for DWDM systems grew to US$2.2 billion in 1998. Communications Industry Researchers, Inc., an industry authority, reports that DWDM and related optical technologies will grow to a market of US$7.6 billion by 2003. Manufacturers of DWDM systems that use DWDM devices include Lucent Technologies, Inc., Ciena Corp., Alcatel, Cisco, Nortel Networks Corp., NEC and Fujitsu. Several of these systems manufacturers (Lucent, Ciena, Alcatel, and NEC) also manufacture DWDM products. Other DWDM component suppliers include, but are not limited to, JDS-Uniphase Corp., Gould, Instruments SA, Corning OCA, Ditech Communications Corp., DiCon, Sumitomo, and Bosch. Large companies like AT&T Corp. and MCI WorldCom Inc. are part of the DWDM market. AT&T has used equipment supplied by Lucent Technologies, while MCI has used DWDM equipment supplied by Hitachi Ltd. and Nortel.
Unprecedented Growth of Information Traffic
The telecommunications industry has experienced the shift in traffic from voice to data-dominated. Computers increasingly process and send more information across networks with greater speed and in greater quantity than the quantity for which voice-centered networks were designed. New data-handling protocols have been introduced to handle data more efficiently. New data communications equipment has been designed and created to route and switch data transmission at very high speeds.
The popularity and increased usage of the Internet, new users and applications are putting pressure on the existing network capacity and performance of service providers. Service providers are continually in need of network improvements and increases in their available bandwidth in order to stay competitive. They are looking for ways to optimize their investment in their existing network and a low cost solution to increase capacity. Optical fiber networks are widely deployed by telecommunications service providers for domestic and international carriage. Recent increases in information traffic, growing competition and increased demand for reliability at lower cost have required carriers to enhance the service they provide. Part of the solution has been the deployment of DWDM systems.
The flow of traffic has also increased by the growing capacity and processing speed of data communications equipment, like Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) switches and Internet Protocol (IP) routers and the development of high bandwidth network access technologies, such as cable modems, hybrid fiber coaxial architectures and digital subscriber lines. According to Ryan, Hankin & Kent, a leading market researcher, Internet traffic will increase from 350,000 tera bytes per month at the end of 1999 to over 15 million tera bytes per month in 2003.
Competition
Widespread telecommunications industry deregulation in the United States has resulted in increased competition among service providers. Some industry analysts believe this has increased the need for greater bandwidth capacity on networks. As carriers seek to differentiate themselves from competitors, they have emphasized high capacity technology to sell their services.
Reliability
Consumers and generators of information are becoming more dependent on network reliability. End-users are less and less tolerant of service interruptions. Network carriers have responded by introducing fiber optic networks that can overcome cable cuts or other equipment failure between two points. These networks frequently utilize a "ring architecture" in which routes are linked in a ring configuration, permitting rerouting of traffic along the reverse path of the ring in the event of a service interruption occasioned by a fiber optic cable cut or other equipment failure. Ring architectures require twice the fiber capacity of non-ring systems. These system designs therefore place greater bandwidth demand on existing fiber networks.
Other capacity drivers
Other capacity drivers on fiber optic networks include technologies such as digital subscriber lines (DSL). DSL promises higher access speeds to residences and businesses. With potential speeds in excess of a megabit, this will continue to impose additional strain (demand for bandwidth) on the optical network backbone. According to W. Carter, an industry analyst, such constraints can be resolved by utilizing DWDM technology.
PHASIC(TM) Process
Lumenon's manufacturing process is called PHASIC(TM). PHASICTM stands for Photonic Hybrid Active Silica Integrated Circuit, which refers to the materials and processes Lumenon uses to produce its devices in the form of an integrated optical circuit on silicon microchips similar to those used in computers. For DWDM devices, the optical circuit consists of a collection of micron size array waveguide gratings (AWG) that have been arranged to combine (multiplex) or separate (demultiplex) light at the telecommunications wavelength near 1.55 microns. More specifically, the Company uses hybrid glasses for making its AWG and a simplified manufacturing process for creating its optical circuits on silicon. The "hybrid glass" (a glass-polymer solution) can be used to print (through light) circuits on chips
without the costly vacuum etching process and the use of manual labor for assembly of micro-optic devices. The Company expects to be the first to commercialize hybrid glasses for use in integrated optics.
The optical chip has an optical circuit on it analogous to the micro-electronic circuit that is produced on silicon microchips used in computers. Optical circuits can be made with 4, 8, 16, 32, 40, 64 and more channels to transport different optical signals (light) carried at different wavelengths. Light signals are combined and separated on the optical chip by taking advantage of the differences in the length of the individual waveguides in the AWG. These path differences translate into optical phase differences. This means that light of a given wavelength (a given optical channel) can be combined with others for input to an optical fiber (multiplexing). With the same device, light can also be separated for output to individual optical fibers (demultiplexing). This technology simplifies the process while providing a product and technology that can be adapted to the industry's changing needs.
Plan of Operations
Lumenon's plan of operations for fiscal year 2001 is to get its plant and volume production up and running in order to produce 8, 16, 32 and 40 channel DWDM devices and bring them to market. Volume production will be realized by (i) completing the construction of its facility and setting up its manufacturing infrastructures, (ii) defining processing sequences and conditions (wafer coating, photolithography, etc.) that distinguish fabrication of devices, (iii) staffing up and investing in the training of its employees, (iv) implementing a frame work for quality control and reliability testing, (v) expanding its DWDM packaging and fiber pigtailing capability, (vi) broadening its product portfolio, and (vii) securing its supply chain.
Research and Development
Research and development activities for fiscal year 2001 will be centered on finalizing the packaging of Lumenon's DWDM products and optimizing their manufacturing processes. The Company will also focus on developing new products that it judges to be of value to the photonics market. See "Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Our Business," second, third, and thirteenth risk factors for those risks associated with the development of the Company's products.
Manufacturing
At the end of June 2000, Lumenon moved its headquarters to a site located in Ville St-Laurent, a suburb of Montreal, Canada. The 53,427 square-foot facility has a 34,400 square foot manufacturing facility that features materials preparation, fabrication, packaging, optical test and quality control facilities for Lumenon's DWDM products. Lumenon has commenced the internal construction of the production facility, consisting of cleanrooms and associated laboratories, and has ordered the needed manufacturing equipment. See "Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Our Business," fourth risk factor for risks associated with the Company's manufacture of its products. The Company's existing R&D facility, located in Dorval, Quebec, will be used for prototyping once the manufacturing facility is operational.
Employee Growth
Lumenon currently has 90 employees. Over the past 12 months Lumenon has increased the corporate team to a complement of 7. The existing R&D team of 27 meets current requirements and will be increased at a measured pace as new requirements are identified. Most of Lumenon's personnel growth will be within the operations team, which will require an increase in its manufacturing component of approximately 75 hourly employees and 25 specialists/technicians to meet the current sales forecasts for fiscal 2001 and first quarter of fiscal 2002. Headcount growth thereafter will be highly dependant on volume requirements and will be primarily focused on hourly employees. Most of the manufacturing employees that Lumenon will hire will be fully trained in a few months. The remainder of the Company's administrative staff is intended to increase by 35 persons within marketing and sales, engineering, accounting and administrative staff. Combined with the employees remaining at the Dorval pilot facility, the total employee count is anticipated to be in the range of 225 employees by the end of fiscal 2001. See "Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Our Business," - ninth and tenth risk factors.
Business Strategy
The Company believes that there is a substantial market for its AWG devices for DWDM systems. This market may be best supplied using AWG, which provides high channel counts in a single compact device.
Optical chips in AWG format are currently used in DWDM systems. Companies that produce the AWG format are PIRI (a subsidiary of JDS Uniphase), Kymata, Siemens and Lumenon. These AWG devices perform in a similar way. However, DWDM devices can differ both in composition and method of fabrication depending on how they are processed. AWG DWDM devices made by PIRI, Kymata and Siemens use a high temperature (greater than 1,000oC) vacuum deposition process called "flame hydrolysis deposition" (FHD). This method of manufacturing optical chips uses a repetition of step by step processing to achieve final composition of a device. See "Business Strategy - Establish Technology Leadership" for more detailed information concerning FHD processing.
The AWG DWDM devices produced by Lumenon differ in composition and method of fabrication. Lumenon's AWG devices are made of hybrid sol-gel glass. They are made by spin- or dip coating of fluids and at temperatures about 1,000oC lower than those used in FHD. The devices are created by photolithography directly in the hybrid sol-gel glass avoiding vacuum film deposition, and they have optical properties that can be changed over a broader range than those provided by commercial forms of FHD. The latter difference allows Lumenon to make smaller DWDM devices (measuring less than 5 cm x 5 cm) than those produced by FHD. Smaller devices permit manufacturers of DWDM systems to make more compact products so their systems can be deployed in locations where space is limited, providing greater design flexibility. The difference in the materials and method of fabrication used by Lumenon also allows it to make AWG devices more simply (through a simplified process), using less equipment, faster and in larger quantities per unit of processing time than FHD component manufacturers. The Company believes, at present, that no other manufacturer utilizes the sol-gel method in the commercial production of optic devices for use in the DWDM market.
Lumenon's goal is to provide high quality, cost effective and high volume DWDM devices. The Company developed its PHASICTM process because it believes that high volume manufacturing methods similar to those used by the microelectronics manufacturing industry are necessary to meet telecommunications customer demands for high volume and reliability. The Company believes that its materials, design tools and process give it a technological edge that will allow it to improve yield in optical chip production. See "Industry Background" section of this Item 1. in relation to the current needs of the market and "Risk Factors," generally, detailing the potential risks the Company faces in producing its products at lower cost and in greater volume.
The Company has begun producing and testing a limited number of product devices with the intention to market 4, 8, 16, 32 and 40 DWDM product. In addition, the Company intends to offer services based on its capability to design new customized DWDM devices according to specific client needs. These needs may include, among others, channel count, channel spacing, central wavelength and optical loss characteristics. Because Lumenon's DWDM is created on a silicon substrate, there is the potential for product enhancement by combining other features e.g., lasers, on the same silicon substrate.
Lumenon's products will address existing demand, and create conditions for expanded use of its devices and families of devices, by utilizing its technology and expertise for existing and new product development in a client-specific manner. For example, the Company is presently targeting an existing DWDM market that has for the most part, very specific needs. Because the Company manufactures its DWDM devices from a Platform Technology, it can use similar materials and processes to produce both devices related generally to the DWDM industry and optical internetworking and customized devices for the DWDM industry. Examples include optical chips for selectively adding or dropping wavelengths (channels) and optical cross-connects. Because the technology is a Platform, the Company can expand from its DWDM chip, building into new kinds of optical chip products beyond DWDM. The Company believes that customers may favorably view the idea of having optical devices that are all related to one another through a common (generic) technology. Photonics is a nascent industry and the Company believes that it will be necessary to work with customers closely to meet their specific needs. See, "Technology and Products - Platform Material Technology and Advanced Software Design Tools" regarding the ability of the Company's Platform Technology to be combined with other products and devices to create new products, including custom made products. In such a competitive industry, the Company faces many risks including market acceptance of its products and its ability to adapt its products to technological change, see "Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Our Business," - second, third and eighth risk factors.
To implement its strategy, the Company intends to:
(i) Establish Technology Leadership
There are three primary multiplexer component technologies currently used in DWDMs: thin film filters (Thin Filters), fiber Bragg gratings (Bragg Gratings) and array waveguides (AWG). According to a report in Laser Focus World Supplement, "WDM Solutions," in 1998, Thin Filters held a 26% share of the DWDM market. AWG captured market share from Thin Filters in 1998, representing 47% of the DWDM market with Bragg Gratings having a market share of 19%. Within the industry, AWG technology currently provides the least costly manufacturing alternative to expanding existing capacity over that of Thin Filter and Bragg Gratings technology.
In existing AWG technology, a "flame hydrolysis deposition" (FHD) method, is used to manufacture DWDM components and devices. This method employs a hydrogen-oxygen nozzle flame to burn the desired combinations of gases of silicon tetrachloride, phosphorous oxychlorides, chlorides of phosphorous, boron or germanium, for example, that may be transported by a gas like argon to a heated silicon wafer surface. Combustion of the gases produces a glass soot on the surface of a silicon substrate. The soot is melted and consolidated at high temperature (greater than 1,000oC) in a lengthy thermal process. The procedure is repeated at least three times to achieve the final composition. The second coating step is usually followed by a series of coating and vacuum etching steps used to create the AWG component. In some cases, a thin section of polymer (a half wave plate) is inserted into the array waveguide section to desensitize the device to the polarization state of the light.
Thin Filters use one-millimeter square glass windows coated with multi-layers of metal oxide. This layered structure is used to pass through some wavelengths of light and reflect others in transferring information or data. These windows act as an optical filter when many are assembled together with lenses and appropriate input an output filters. Then, together they can selectively separate wavelengths of light for transmission of information. In this way, the Thin Filter device acts in the same capacity as a mutliplexer device.
Bragg Gratings act as micro optical filters. The grating spacing is selected in such a way that it allows some wavelengths of light to pass through the filter and reflects other wavelengths of light. When Bragg Gratings are created in optical fiber and fibers are assembled together in a structure like an interferometer, the Bragg Gratings assembly acts in the same capacity as a multiplexer device.
The Company believes that the following three variables, discussed in detail below, will determine the relative successes of the above competing technologies:
(1) Chip manufacturing cost per channel, (2) Size of the optical component and (3) Suitability to high volume manufacture.
Lumenon believes that its products, which are based on AWG technology, will enjoy an advantage in each case.
Chip Manufacturing Cost Per Channel. In AWG technology, cost does not scale with an increase in the number of channels per chip because all channels are created simultaneously or in parallel. There is little increase in the cost of manufacturing an 8-channel, 16-channel or other channel AWG DWDM chip because the circuits and optical channels are all created in the same step. In contrast, in Thin Filter and Bragg Gratings technologies, additional channels must be added sequentially (one at a time), increasing the complexity of the task and adding time and cost to the process. Thus, the current manufacturing cost per channel is lower for AWG technology than for the Thin Filter and Bragg Gratings technologies. The cost of making an AWG DWDM component will depend on the method and materials used. The Company's products are distinguishable from those of its AWG competitors in their composition and method of fabrication. The Company believes that simple one-mask manufacturing process should be cost effective and will be suitable for high volume and high yield manufacturing.
Size of Optical Components. AWG technology products are significantly smaller than those produced by competing technologies. This may prove an advantage where space is at a premium.
Suitability to High Volume Manufacture. The Company's manufacturing process is simpler, because the complexity of the process does not increase linearly with an increase in the number of channels per chip, as is the case with competing technologies. The Company anticipates that as optical chip technology matures, customer demand and competition will drive down the price of chips. The Company's low temperature manufacturing process, which distinguishes it from other producers utilizing the AWG technology, should permit lower cost production and higher product yield.
The Company's AWG DWDM devices differ from other waveguide DWDM devices in composition and its method of fabrication. The Company's AWG devices are made from different materials (its hybrid glass) and through a different method of fabrication (its low temperature sol-gel process). The use of hybrid glass and the sol-gel processing gives the Company the advantage of being able to use spin-coating and dip-coating manufacturing methods to cover silicon wafers, rather than vacuum deposition techniques. The Company's hybrid glasses are made at temperatures about 1,000oC lower than those used in FHD chip production. This gives the Company an energy saving advantage and provides a greater choice in the range of substrates e.g., glass, plastic that might be used in the future to support DWDM devices and future product development. Lumenon's DWDM optical chips are created by photolithography directly in the hybrid glass. This avoids complex post-processing sequences in which chemical resists and masks must be used in conjunction with vacuum reactive ion etching methods to create the AWG for the DWDM. The properties of the hybrid glass materials can be altered so that the glasses have properties that are more like those of plastics or inorganic glasses or properties that are intermediate between plastics and glasses. This permits hybrid glasses to be adapted into more commercially usable and compact or miniature forms than those produced by FHD. Smaller DWDM devices also permit manufacturers of DWDM systems to make more compact products.
(ii) Leverage Existing Customer Relationship and Develop New Relationships
In May 1999, the Company entered into a Teaming Agreement with Molex, a global manufacturer of electronic, electrical and fiber optic interconnection products and systems. The Teaming Agreement was amended on March 3, 2000 (See "Material Agreements - Agreements with Molex"). Under the Teaming Agreement, the Company and Molex agreed to jointly develop 8, 16 and 32-channel DWDM products for sale to Molex and distribution and marketing by Molex to other customers. Subject to testing of the Lumenon technology and proof of its manufacturing capability, Molex is committed to purchase 400 units per month for the first 12 months, and has the option to purchase 50% of Lumenon's DWDM production. This arrangement should provide a firm customer base for the Company's early production. The Company also proposes to establish relationships with telecommunications equipment manufacturers and with manufacturers in other industries with potential applications for its devices.
(iii) Target Long Distance, Metropolitan Area and Access Markets
The Company believes that much of the potential expansion of the markets for its products will occur not in long distance telecommunications, but in new markets, such as metropolitan area, local area and office environments. This is a result of technological advances and the potential to reduce manufacturing costs. The Company has chosen to target these market segments for DWDM technology because combined, they are anticipated by Pioneer Consulting, an industry authority, to account for market growth from US $200 million in 1998 to approximately US$1 billion in 2003.
(iv) Expand Manufacturing Capability
The Company's prospective customers are expected to require high volumes of products manufactured to high quality standards at gradually decreasing prices. The Company is currently expanding beyond its existing Research and Development facility to a full scale manufacturing facility, with a production capability of 500 devices per day. The Company is finalizing the completion of the 34,400 square foot manufacturing facility for production beginning in 2001.
Technology and Products
The Company uses a solution or liquid sol-gel process to produce its DWDM optical devices. Sol-gel processing converts molecules of silicon-containing compounds into a network of glasses. The Company produces its glass at temperatures below 200(0)C, which is considerably lower than the temperatures otherwise used in the FHD process. The Company believes it is the only producer of compact AWG DWDM devices using a low temperature sol-gel process for its hybrid glass on silicon. The licensed low-temperature sol-gel process allows films of glass to be dip-coated or spin-coated onto silicon substrates in large quantities and at greater speed than vacuum coating. The Company uses conventional photolithography (also known as photo-microlithography), which is a method to "print" optical circuits and devices directly into its hybrid glasses. The glass also contains a second monomer (an organic component) that can be polymerized when it is exposed to light in the ultra-violet end of the spectrum. Polymerization creates the optical AWG that comprises the DWDM technology. A pattern of the AWG is made by projecting an image of the pattern, exposing a patterned mask (an optical mask) to ultra-violet light. The light passes through the patterned openings of the mask and "writes" or "projects" the image directly into the micron-thin hybrid glass film on a silicon substrate. The procedure is similar to the way photographs are printed in a darkroom.
Platform Material Technology
Lumenon's licensed "hybrid glass" technology combines the features of inorganic silica glass and organic polymeric materials in a single matrix (material glass platform), which the Company refers to as its Platform Technology. The "hybrid glass" provides a more flexible material for use in the design, fabrication and manufacturing of devices, resulting in greater adaptability and increased options within the performance of a DWDM system. This technology permits the manufacture of customized devices to meet a customer's specific needs. DWDM devices may
be required to meet certain performance standards established by regulatory groups. Lumenon's DWDM technology can be adapted to meet such performance standards.
Lumenon believes it is the only producer to introduce a sol-gel technology for integrated optics that combines both polymer and glass material platforms in a single material base for integrated optics devices on silicon, using polymer photolithographic manufacturing methods long accepted by the semiconductor and microelectronics industries adapted by the Company to produce hybrid silica glass integrated optics devices. Based on its own experience in the research and development of the Platform Technology, the Company believes that it has a two-to three-year lead-time over the industry competition that might arise in the production of optical chips from hybrid glasses. See the "Risk Factors" section below for the risks that the Company will encounter in efforts to compete successfully in its industry. The materials used to formulate the hybrid glasses are custom designed and readily available "off-the-shelf" products supplied by well-known manufacturers like Dow Corning, Aldrich Chemical and Ciba Specialty Chemicals Ltd. Because the quantity of material used to make a device is very small (the films are less than 20 microns thick), the cost of the materials is less than 5% of the total cost of the DWDM product, making the material cost-competitive with silica or polymers. Additionally, the methodology used to manufacture such products avoids complex and costly processing and etching sequences, thereby reducing production costs. Through the use of the Platform Technology, the Company will, in the future, be able to target products for a customer's product line by supplying a variety of valuable customized products. For example, in the photonic circuit market, Lumenon can market its products to meet the broadest possible range of applications. These applications might call for material properties very similar to those of glass. Alternatively, these applications might require material properties similar to those of organic polymers. Neither polymers nor silica alone are as flexible or adaptable as a hybrid glass. Further, other target products that could be produced and utilized in the telecommunications long-haul networks are Optical Add-Drop Multiplexers, Optical Cross Connects and Photonic Switches, which can create more transparent all-optical networks and replace many synchronous optical network ("SONET") sub-systems. The Company believes that the relative simplicity of its PHASICTM process, using hybrid glasses, will enable Lumenon to fabricate optical chips across the broadest range of photonic market opportunities in high volume. See also "Business Strategy" for information relating to the characteristics of the Company's manufacturing process.
Technological Leadership
Lumenon has assembled a team of scientists, engineers and technologists with broad expertise in materials formulation, photonic device design, hybrid glass integrated optics circuit fabrication, product definition, and industrial process engineering. This team has pioneered the development of "photonic chips on silicon" based on proprietary formulations of hybrid glasses and the creation of software design tools and processing knowledge, privileged to Lumenon. The Company's technical structure comprises software development/optical circuit design, materials formulation, and process engineering. This combination of attributes should allow Lumenon to evolve as a significant provider of integrated optics products to the photonic industry, including local area networks and future Home Network applications.
Lumenon has also created a Technical Advisory Board to advise the Company on photonic market trends and technology and to assist in the development of an optical information technology "roadmap" for the Company's benefit. This board consists of three external scientists with extensive experience and expertise in the industry.
Advanced Software Design Tools
The Company uses both proprietary and industry standard design tools to create its DWDM devices. Lumenon has developed in-house theories and software algorithms for creating product designs such as the Company's complex AWG for DWDM. The Company is unaware of any commercially available design packages that compete with the Company's software capability. Whether or not other entities have developed software design tools of quality competitive with that of Lumenon has no impact on the business of the Company, which uses its software in a manner uniquely adapted to the photonic materials and processes it has developed. The Company has also obtained licenses for industry standard computer aided design (CAD) and beam propagation method (BPM) software to model or design selected performance features of simpler devices, such as couplers and splitters.
The Company has built a library of design tools and designed elements that can be used in modular form to assemble more complex device structures (multi-functional devices on a chip). Lumenon's technical marketing and design application engineers have a broad knowledge of integrated optics device systems design (architectures) and their integration in subsystems and systems. With such expertise, the Company will be able to develop photonic chip products that are flexible, modular and designed to be deployed in existing and future networks and for use in modern data and telecommunications equipment. This modular approach facilitates the re-use of complex functional DWDM devices in new and customized designs, reducing Lumenon's DWDM product development cycles. The Company believes that a large library of complex functions is required to compete effectively in the market, especially in terms of cost and length of development cycles.
Manufacturing
Lumenon has commenced the manufacture of its prototype devices in a custom-designed pilot microfabrication facility located at Dorval, Quebec. The capacity of this existing pilot facility is 20 DWDM chips per day. As of August 2000, Lumenon does not sell a finished product in the open market. The current generation of chips is being used for development and test phases. This includes the development of solutions for pigtailing optical fiber to the DWDM chips, and for hermetic, semi-hermetic and non-hermetic packaging.
Lumenon relies largely on its own processes for the manufacture of its products. In order to meet the projected demand for high volume, low cost photonic chip production, the Company will be required to equip and staff a full scale production facility. The Company anticipates developing a manufacturing capacity to 500 devices per day in 2001 and 1,000 per day in 2002 in the new facility. There are a variety of risks associated with the operation of a new facility, see "Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Our Business," - fourth risk factor.
Proprietary Rights
Lumenon's future success and ability to compete are dependent, in part, upon its licensed and owned technology. The Company relies in part on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law to protect its intellectual property. The Company is the licensee of three patent applications under the terms of a License Agreement, which expires in October 2017. (See, "Material Agreements - Agreement with Polyvalor and McGill University" for a description of the terms of this License Agreement) These three patent applications are:
1. Title: "Solvent-assisted lithographic process using photosensitive sol-gel derived glass for depositing ridge waveguides on silicon"
Use: Intellectual property relating to the Company's sol-gel process used to make the Company's optical circuit devices on a broad range of substrates, including silicon through simplified
photolithographic processes and wet etching techniques, which is fundamental to the success of the Company's manufacturing process. Country: United States Assignee:McGill University Status: Allowed and issued as patent No. 6,054,253 on April 25, 2000.
2. Title: "Solvent-assisted lithographic process using photosensitive sol-gel derived glass for depositing ridge waveguides on silicon"
Use: Intellectual property relating to the Company's sol-gel process used to make the Company's optical circuit devices on a broad range of substrates, including silicon through simplified photolithographic processes and wet etching techniques, which is fundamental to the success of the Company's manufacturing process. Country: Canada Assignee:None Status: Pending. The next step in this patent application is to file the request for examination.
3. Title: "Self-processing of diffractive optical components in hybrid sol-gel glasses" Use: Intellectual property used to make diffraction gratings in hybrid glass without the need for device development steps, which is not material to the Company's present manufacture of products, but is relevant and being sought for later generation products planned for production. Country: United States Assignee:None Status: Pending Provisional: the patent application is pending but is incomplete and the priority date for filing the complete patent application in the United States and for extending the patent application in other countries is October 26, 2000. The Company is presently in the process of finalizing the application.
Lumenon has also filed the following patent applications:
4. Title: "On-substrate cleaving of sol-gel waveguide" Use: Intellectual property used to make optical coupling between glass fiber and optical circuit device waveguides, which is not material to the Company's present production of products, but is relevant and being sought for later generation products planned for production. Country: United States Owner: Co-ownership between Lumenon and Paul Coudray Status: Pending: the patent was filed on July 1st 1999 and is awaiting review and comments from the examiner. The priority date for filing of the patent application in other countries was July 1st, 2000.
5. Title: "Sol gel film coating process using chilled solution" Use: Intellectual property used to make a sol gel film where the thickness and roughness of resulting film are improved by dispensing a chilled sol gel solution instead of conventionally dispensing such a sol gel at room temperature. Lumenon presently uses this technology in its manufacturing process. Country: Canada Status: Pending Informal: the patent application is pending but is informal and the priority date for filing the complete patent application in Canada and for extending the patent application in other countries is July 28, 2001.
6. Title: "Flattening the response of a planar wavelength division multiplexer using a Y-junction" Use: Intellectual property used to flatten the response of a planar wavelength division multiplexer
through a Y-junction. Lumenon presently uses this technology in its manufacturing process. Country: Canada Status: Pending Informal: the patent application is pending but is informal and the priority date for filing the complete patent application in Canada and for extending the patent application in other countries is August 4, 2001.
There can be no assurance that any patents will be issued under the Company's current or future patent applications or that any issued patents will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or licensed to others. In addition, there can be no assurance that the rights granted under any such patents will provide competitive advantages to the Company. There can be no assurance that any patents issued to the Company will be adequate to safeguard and maintain the Company's proprietary rights, to deter misappropriation or to prevent an unauthorized third party from copying the Company's technology, designing around the patents owned by the Company or otherwise obtaining and using the Company's products, designs or other information. In addition, there can be no assurance that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to the Company's technology, see "Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Our Business," thirteenth risk factor.
Lumenon also relies on confidentiality agreements to protect its proprietary rights. It is the Company's policy to require employees and consultants and, when possible, suppliers, to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with the Company. Litigation may be necessary to enforce the Company's intellectual property rights and to protect the Company's trade secrets, and there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful. The Company's inability to protect its proprietary rights effectively would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.
Many participants in the photonics and related communications industries have a significant number of patents and have frequently demonstrated a readiness to commence litigation based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. Although the Company is not aware of any claim of infringement or misappropriation against the Company, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert such claims in the future with respect to the Company's current or future products. The Company expects that companies will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in the Company's industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Responding to such claims, regardless of merit, could cause product shipment delays or require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. Any such claims could also lead to time-consuming, protracted and costly litigation that would require significant expenditures of time, capital and other resources by the Company and its management. Moreover, no assurance can be given that any necessary royalty or licensing agreement will be available or that, if available, such agreement could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms.
Material Agreements
Agreements with Molex
On May 19 and June 21, 1999, Lumenon entered into several agreements (the "Molex Agreements") with Molex (NASDAQ: MOLX), based in Lisle, Illinois. Molex is a 60-year-old global manufacturer of electronic, electrical and fiber optic interconnection products and systems, switches, value-added assemblies, and application tooling. The
Molex Agreements include a Teaming Agreement, a Stock Purchase Agreement, a Stock Restriction Agreement and a Registration Rights Agreement. The Teaming Agreement was amended on March 3, 2000.
Under the Teaming Agreement, as amended, Lumenon and Molex agreed to jointly develop 8, 16 and 32-channel DWDM products for use in the DWDM market and other photonics markets. Subject to Lumenon testing and proving its technology and its ability to manufacture and deliver certain devices, Molex is committed to purchase the entire DWDM production of Lumenon for the first 12 months of production, up to 400 units per month. Molex also has the option to buy 50% of the remaining chip production. After the first 12-month period, Molex will have the option to purchase 50% of Lumenon's DWDM production for the succeeding three-year period. Any product sold by Lumenon to Molex will be priced at Lumenon's gross cost. In addition, Molex will pay to Lumenon 30% of the profits obtained on final products built from the chips supplied during the first twelve months, and thereafter 50% of the profits from sales of functionally unmodified packaged products and 30% of the profits from sales of other final products. Lumenon is free to package and sell any remaining products, with all profits going to Lumenon. However, Lumenon cannot sell unpackaged chips for telecommunication applications, except for special order or exploratory purposes, without written agreement from Molex. In the event Lumenon is unable to supply Molex on a timely basis with a commercially reasonable quantity of the devices (which may trigger termination of the Teaming Agreement) or in the event there is a change of control of Lumenon, Molex has the non-exclusive right to manufacture all components of the devices in return for a royalty of 25% of Molex's gross cost. See - "Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Our Business," sixth risk factor for the risks associated with the Company's dependence on Molex and "Business Strategy" and "Technology and Products - Manufacturing" in this Item 1. regarding future production and marketing plans for the Company's products.
Under the Stock Purchase Agreement, Molex agreed to purchase 3,000,000 shares of the Common Stock of Lumenon at a price of US$0.50 per share in two stages. The first closing was held on June 21, 1999 for 1,500,000 shares of Common Stock and the second closing was held in March 2000 for an additional 1,500,000 shares of Common Stock. Lumenon also issued to Molex a warrant to purchase 1,666,667 additional shares of Common Stock at a price of US$0.90 per share, which was exercised on November 15, 1999.
In addition, Lumenon issued Molex a Services Common Stock Purchase Warrant (the "Services Warrant") to receive 5,800,000 additional shares of Common Stock in exchange for certain services to be rendered by Molex to Lumenon under the Teaming Agreement as part of the development of Lumenon's technology. These shares were issued in 2000 as Molex performed services.
Under the Stock Restriction Agreement, certain stockholders of Lumenon have agreed not to sell their respective shares of the Company to a competitor of Molex without Molex's prior consent. This agreement includes a right of first refusal and certain preemptive rights in favor of Molex, except that Lumenon can, without Molex's consent, issue up to 6,000,000 units (comprising one common share and a warrant for the purchase of one common share at a price of not less than US$0.90 per share) at a price not less than US$0.50 per unit to raise capital within the 24-month period ending in June 2001. The Stock Restriction Agreement also requires the consent of Molex for certain extraordinary actions relating to the governance of the Company and its operations. Certain rights or restrictions contained in the Stock Restriction Agreement terminate upon completion of a Public Sale or a Public Offering, as defined in the agreement. The Stock Restriction Agreement will also terminate if the Teaming Agreement is terminated.
The net proceeds of the issuances of stock to Molex were added to the Company's working capital and are being used in part to accelerate the commercialization of the Company's DWDM products.
Agreement with Polyvalor and McGill University
Lumenon entered into a license agreement (the "License Agreement") with Polyvalor, a Canadian limited partnership, as represented by its General Partner, Polyvalor Inc. and McGill University (together, Polyvalor and McGill University are referred to as the "Licensor") pursuant to which Lumenon acquired the right to produce, sell, distribute and promote products derived from using the patents and know-how (as such terms are defined in the License Agreement) of the Licensor subject only to the license granted to QPS Technology Inc. in May 1998. To date, QPS Technology Inc. has not demonstrated any desire or capability to utilize its license for production of any related technology or products. These patents and know-how are based on the work of Dr. Iraj Najafi at Ecole Polytechnique and Dr. Mark Andrews at McGill University and their respective team of collaborators. Lumenon will pay a royalty of 5% on gross sales, up to a maximum cumulative amount of US$2,367,104 (CDN$3,500,000) to the Licensor until October 2017 at which time the License Agreement will expire. The Company does not believe that the rights granted it thereunder will be of significant value after that date. If this is not the case, the Company would seek to extend the term of the License Agreement. Polyvalor is a company created by Ecole Polytechnique for the purpose of commercializing the technology in which Polytechnique has an interest.
In connection with the License Agreement, the Company issued to each of McGill University and Polyvalor 750,000 shares of the Common Stock and granted them jointly the right to nominate one director to the Company's Board of Directors.
Agreement with Polaroid
Lumenon has entered into an agreement dated July 21, 2000 with Polaroid Corporation for the irrevocable non-exclusive license of certain patents held by Polaroid in connection with AWG. Lumenon agreed to pay to Polaroid an initial licensing fee of US $395,000 (CDN$584,047). In addition Lumenon will pay royalties on the net selling price of its products, at an annual rate of 5% for aggregate net selling prices of five million US dollars, 3.5% for aggregate net selling prices over five and up to forty million US dollars, and 1.75% for aggregate net selling prices over forty million US dollars, for each year of the agreement.
Convertible Note Financing
On July 25, 2000, the Company consummated the purchase by two institutional investors (the "Purchasers") of US$35,000,000 (CDN$51,751,000) aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due July 25, 2005 (the "Notes"). The Notes bear interest at the per annum rate of 7 1/2%, which is payable upon the earlier to occur of the repayment or conversion of the Notes. The Notes are convertible from and after issuance into shares of Common Stock at a price equal to the average of the closing bid prices of the Common Stock for the five consecutive trading days ending immediately prior to conversion, but in no event less than US$7.00 nor more than US$25.00 per share (unless a default under the Notes shall have occurred). Commencing 30 months after the issuance of the Notes, the Company may require their conversion provided certain specified Common Stock pricing and trading volume criteria and certain resale and market criteria are satisfied. The Notes provide for various events of default, which would entitle their holders to require the immediate repayment of the Notes, together with an additional default amount. The holders of the Notes may also require their repayment, together with an additional redemption amount, upon certain extraordinary events, such as a merger, a sale of all or substantially all assets and a change of control.
The proceeds of sale of the Notes are being used in part to complete the buildout of the Company's new manufacturing facility. Such proceeds will also be used to pursue the Company's overall growth strategy and to finance its research and development program.
In connection with the financing, the Company issued to the Purchasers five year warrants (the "Investor Warrants") to purchase an aggregate of 5,000,800 shares of Common Stock, vesting 18 months after issuance, based upon the volume weighted average price of the Common Stock (the "Volume Weighted Average Price") during the five consecutive trading days preceding vesting. If the Volume Weighted Average Price is equal to or less than US$30.00, then the exercise price will be US$10.00. If the Volume Weighted Average Price is more than US$30.00, but less than US$70.00, then the exercise price will be the sum of US$10.00, plus one-half of the excess over US$30.00. If the Volume Weighted Average Price is more than US$70.00, then the exercise price will be US$30.00. The number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Investor Warrants and the exercise price of the Investor Warrants are subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain dilutive issuances of the Company's securities. In the event of a default under the Notes or in certain other obligations of the Company to the Purchasers, vesting of the Investor Warrants may be accelerated.
The Company agreed with the Purchasers that for a period of 180 days after the issuance of the Notes, it would not, without the prior consent of the Purchasers, obtain additional equity or equity-linked financing and that for a further period of 180 days, should it propose to engage in any equity or equity-linked financing, it would offer the Purchasers the opportunity to provide such financing upon the terms and conditions proposed. Such agreement is not applicable to business combinations or firm commitment public offerings. The Company also agreed to submit for the approval of its stockholders prior to November 30, 2000 the agreements under which the Notes and Investor Warrants were issued.
The Company also agreed with the Purchasers to register for resale under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, 8,800,000 shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes and exercise of the Investor Warrants. The registration is to be effected as promptly as is practicable.
Customer Relations
In addition to the relationship created under the Molex Agreements, the manufacture of DWDM products implies that the Company will work in close association with DWDM system manufacturers. Examples of these manufacturers are Nortel Networks, Cisco, Alcatel, Lucent Technologies, and Ciena. Lumenon believes that it will be important to its success to work with customers directly to meet performance requirements in the design of its DWDM products and devices throughout the entire life cycle of its products. This will allow the Company to foster a strong commitment to service, and to gain insights into its customers' future plans and needs, identify emerging industry trends and consequently deliver high-performance, cost-effective products with wide market appeal.
Competition
There are several competitors producing DWDM products on the market. Lumenon believes that it will distinguish itself from the competition by producing DWDMs in high volume, while retaining high performance standards. Manufacturers of DWDM systems that may use AWG devices include Lucent Technologies, Ciena, Alcatel, Cisco, Nortel, NEC and Fujitsu. Several of these systems manufacturers (Lucent, Ciena, Alcatel, and NEC) also manufacture DWDM products. Other DWDM component suppliers include, but are not limited to, JDS-Uniphase, Gould, Instruments SA, Corning OCA, Ditech, DiCon, Sumitomo, Bosch Kymata Ltd., Lightwave Microsystems Corp. (LMC), and Bookham Technology Limited. Lumenon believes that it can compete effectively because it will be capable of manufacturing its products in high volumes and in a cost effective manner. The Company has developed materials and processes that use volume coating and optical circuit fabrication processes that it believes are simpler than those of its competitors. The photonic chip approach adopted by Lumenon offers the advantage of compactness at the larger channel counts since there is no need to cascade. Lumenon's compact devices will allow manufacturers of DWDM systems more flexibility with the design of more compact products. Moreover, Lumenon believes that its Platform Technology will allow it to produce a broader range of products in the photonic components markets related to optical networking than that of other competitors. This broader range of products may include photonic chips that can be used for interconnection, power division and combination in personal computers, where price sensitivity is an issue.
Lumenon believes that it is in a strong position to become a technological leader in the industry by introducing its new processes and by defining industry standards for volume photonic chip manufacturing through the Company's low-temperature, low cost processing of compact chips and its customization of products. See the "Business Strategy" section of the Item 1. and the "Risk Factors" section generally for risks relating to the Company's technology and efforts to become a technology leader.
The Company expects competition to increase in the future from existing competitors and from companies that may enter the Company's existing or future markets, with similar or substitute solutions that may be less costly or provide better performance or features than the Company's products. To be successful in the future, Lumenon must continue to respond promptly and effectively to changing customer performance, feature and pricing requirements, technological change and competitors' innovations. The Company is reliant upon its licensed sol-gel manufacturing process under the terms of its License Agreement, described more fully in "Material Agreements - Agreement with Polyvalor and McGill University," for the development and production of its products.
The photonics industry has been marked by the emergence of start-up companies offering products at the component, sub-system and systems levels. Larger companies have been aggressive in acquiring start-ups for preferred competitive technological edge, to circumvent issues of increasing technological complexity, and to accelerate time-to-market product introduction, avoiding the cost and delay that would otherwise be inherent in in-house development. To date, no acquisition offers have been made to the Company nor are any anticipated by the Company in the foreseeable future. The Company's success will depend on its customers' acceptance of outsourcing as an alternative to in-house development by larger companies. Many of Lumenon's potential customers have substantial technological capabilities and financial resources. These customers may currently be developing, or may in the future decide to develop or acquire, products or technologies that are similar to or may be substituted for the Company's products and, this may diminish purchases of the Company's products.
A number of Lumenon's current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. In addition, current and potential competitors may determine, for strategic reasons, to consolidate, to lower the price of their products substantially or to bundle their products with other products. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share.
Lumenon believes that its ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, both within and outside of its control. Such factors include including the price, performance and quality of the Company's and its competitors' products, the timing and success of new product and feature introductions by the Company, its customers and its competitors, the emergence of new standards in the optical communications industry, the development of technical innovations, the availability of raw materials, the efficiency of production, the rate at which the Company's customers design the Company's products into their products, the number and nature of the Company's competitors in a given market, the assertion of intellectual property rights and general market and economic conditions.
Sales, Marketing and Technical Support
The Company is party to an agreement with Molex that reserves most of the Company's first year of production for Molex and also provides the Company with access to Molex's global distribution network. This reliance on Molex poses an operating risk to the Company. See, "Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Our Business," sixth risk factor. In the event that this relationship changes and Molex is not able to provide Lumenon access to Molex's distribution network, Lumenon will be selling its products directly through its in house selling and marketing. The Company plans to develop an international network that would include offices in North America, Europe, and Asia-Pacific.
The Company presently promotes its developing product line in trade journals to generate advance interest. Over the next 12 months, the Company will hire additional internal marketing and sales personnel to assist with the Company's efforts. See the "Plan of Operations - Employee Growth" section of this Item 1. regarding the Company's plans for additional hiring.
Lumenon believes that providing its clients with comprehensive product service and support is critical to maintaining a competitive position in the optical communications market. (See - "Industry Background.") The Company's practice will be to work closely with its customers to monitor the performance of its product designs and to provide application design support and assistance. The Company will also provide a valuable technical resource for consulting on photonic component trends and implementations. Technical data will be provided to customers through the Company's applications engineers, technical marketing and factory applications engineers and, if necessary, product designers and architects or system designers. Local field support will be provided in person or by telephone.
Lumenon intends to provide support at crucial stages of product development. During the design phase, the Company may sell software simulation models of each photonic component or device, to allow customers to simulate the performance of the product in their entire system before committing to it. In the future, the Company may also offer a line of evaluation modules, which are subsystems that are representative of a typical customer design. These modules would enable customers to evaluate the device, as well as hardware design and software development functions, without significant development effort on their part, thereby facilitating rapid time-to-market. Lumenon believes that close contact with these customers will allow the Company to tailor its products to the market and technical needs defined by key OEMs. Understanding its customers' particular problems enables the Company to design and develop solutions in its next generation of products.
History of Company
Lumenon's principal place of business is located in the Montreal suburb of Ville St. Laurent. The Company was incorporated in the state of Delaware in February 1996 under the name of WWV Development, Inc. In July 1998, under an acquisition plan, the Company acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Lumenon Innovative Lightwave Technology, Inc., a Canadian corporation ("LILT") founded in March 1998 by Professor S. Iraj Najafi of the Ecole Polytechnique, Montreal (an engineering school), and Professor Mark P. Andrews of McGill University, Montreal. Upon consummation of the acquisition plan, the Company changed its name from WWV Development, Inc. to Lumenon Innovative Lightwave Technology, Inc. As consideration for such acquisition, the Company issued 12,200,000 shares of Common Stock to the shareholders of LILT, which resulted in a change in control of the Company. Under applicable accounting rules and policies, LILT is deemed the acquiring corporation and the financial information contained herein is that of LILT, as consolidated with Lumenon.
RISK FACTORS
The purchase of our common stock involves a high degree of risk; you should regard it as speculative and you should consider it only if you can reasonably afford a loss of your entire investment. You should carefully consider, in addition to the other information contained in this prospectus, the following risk factors relating to the Company and its business before deciding to invest in our common stock.
Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition
We are a development stage company.
We were founded in 1998. We are a development stage company and, to date, have not had any revenues from sales of our products. Our operating history provides no basis for evaluating us and our prospects. We must, among other things, successfully develop and commercialize our products, meet competition, attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, expand our operations and market and sell products using our technology in volume to have significant revenues and to be profitable.
Our future will depend on our ability to develop, manufacture and commercialize products based upon our licensed proprietary technologies. Our first product, the DWDM optical chip, has only recently entered production in limited quantities and we expect to make only limited shipments of the prototype chips in 2000. Even if our products appear promising when introduced, potential customers may not accept them, they may be difficult to produce in large volumes at an acceptable cost, fail to perform as expected, cost too much or be barred from production by the proprietary rights of others.
We project future losses.
We expect to spend considerable sums to develop and market our new products. We expect our operating expenses to increase as we develop our technology and products, increase our sales and marketing activities and expand our assembly operations. We will not have revenues from product sales before 2001. The amount that we will lose and when, if ever, we will have profits is highly uncertain. If we become profitable, we do not know how much we will earn and our profits may vary significantly from quarter to quarter.
Risks Relating to Our Business
We have limited working capital; we may be unable to obtain funding to meet our future capital needs.
We will require substantial additional funding over the next several years to develop our technology, to broaden and commercialize our products and to expand assembly capacity. Our capital needs will depend on a number of factors, including:
o How many new products we develop o How fast we develop and commercialize our technologies and products and expand our assembly operations o The response of competitors o The level of acceptance of our products o Competing technological developments o Changes in market demand.
In addition, if we develop or commercialize our technology and products more slowly than we expect, we may need substantially more funding, and we may be required to spend our cash faster than we currently plan.
We expect to raise additional working capital primarily from the following sources:
o Sales of equity or debt securities o Equipment leasing and other secured debt financing o Manufacturing and other strategic partners.
If we borrow funds, we may become subject to restrictive financial covenants and our interest obligations will increase. If we issue more stock, our present stockholders may experience substantial dilution.
We do not know whether additional funding will be available on favorable terms, or at all. If it is not, we may have to delay or abandon some or all of our anticipated expenditures, to curtail our operations significantly, to sell assets, or to license to third parties potentially valuable technologies that we currently plan to commercialize ourselves.
The market for our products requires us to adapt to rapid technological change and to continue new product development.
We must become a key supplier of components to the photonics industry to be successful. Our target markets are highly competitive and are marked by rapidly changing technology and industry standards and declining average selling prices. We must:
o Anticipate what our clients and their end-users will need and demand in the manufacture of products, both for general industry use and specific custom-made usage o Incorporate those anticipated features and functions into our products o Meet specific and exacting design requirements o Price our products competitively o Introduce our products at the right time to meet market demand.
The success of our new products will depend on many factors, including:
o The proper product definition o The timely completion and introduction of designs o The ability of our customers to incorporate our product into theirs o The quality and performance of our products o The differentiation of our products from those of our competitors o The acceptance of our products and those of our customers.
Our products are generally incorporated into our customers' products at the design stage. Even if our products are accepted by our customers, their products may not be commercially successful.
The market for our products is characterized by short product lifecycles, declining average selling prices and fluctuating industry conditions.
Our target markets are subject to continuous, rapid technological change, including changing industry standards, frequent introduction of new products, anticipated and unanticipated decreases in average selling prices and fierce price competition. This means that the life cycle of a product we make may be short, we must introduce new products on a timely basis and we must spend a great deal to develop new products. Other competing technologies may force us to sell our products at lower prices than we expect. Thus, we will need to introduce new products to compete effectively and to maintain our selling prices. This may require greater development time and expense than we presently anticipate. We could experience delays in introducing new products because they are complex.
Our products have certain risks in their manufacture and assembly.
The assembly of our chips is a sophisticated process, requiring a clean room and precision assembly equipment. Very small amounts of contaminants in assembly, defects in components, difficulties in the assembly process or other factors can cause a significant number of chips to be nonfunctional or to have unacceptable defects. Many of these problems are difficult to find and require much time and/or expense to fix.
We have never assembled large amounts of products. It may be difficult for us to do this.
Using our own plant could involve significant risks, including lack of adequate capacity, technical difficulties and events limiting production, such as fires or other damage. Furthermore, if demand for our products increases, we will have to build another facility and may have to rely on contractors to manufacture our products for us. Building another facility will cost a great deal and will involve the risks found in all manufacturing, including poor production yields, technical difficulties and events limiting production.
The manufacture of our products involves complex and precise processes. Changes in our manufacturing processes or those of our suppliers, or their inadvertent use of defective materials, could significantly reduce our manufacturing yields and product reliability. Because the majority of our manufacturing costs are relatively fixed, manufacturing yields are critical to our results of operations. Lower than expected production yields could delay product shipments and impair our gross margins. We may not obtain acceptable yields in the future.
Because we plan to introduce new products and product enhancements regularly, we must effectively transfer production information from our research and development department to our manufacturing group and coordinate our efforts with those of our suppliers to rapidly achieve volume production. If we fail to effectively manage this process or if we experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, our shipments of products to our customers could be delayed.
We are dependent on equipment suppliers and contract manufacturers.
We rely on outside suppliers for certain equipment to be used in our manufacturing process. We do not maintain long-term agreements with any of them. If important manufacturing equipment were to malfunction, we would, at a minimum, experience delays in the shipment of our products and could be required to find another manufacturer. Delays in shipment could result in the loss of customers and reductions in our revenues.
We may rely on third party manufacturers for certain components of our products. Risks associated with our potential dependence upon third party manufacturing relationships include:
o Reduced control over delivery schedules
o Lack of quality assurance o Poor manufacturing yields and high costs o Potential lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand o Potential misappropriation of our intellectual property.
We do not know if we will be able to enter into third party manufacturing contracts on favorable terms, if at all, or that our current or future third party manufacturers will meet our requirements for quality, quantity or timeliness.
Dependence on Strategic Relationship.
We have entered into certain agreements with Molex pursuant to which, among other things, we are to jointly develop certain products. The agreements with Molex contain certain restrictions on our ability to sell our products and grant to Molex preferential rights to acquire our products at favorable prices. See "Business-Material Agreements."
There will be a small number of customers for our products.
For the foreseeable future, we intend to market our products to only a limited number of leading original equipment manufacturer ("OEM") customers. We will rely on our OEM customers to develop their own systems, creating demand for our products. OEM customers may be expected to exert considerable leverage in negotiating purchases from us. The telecommunications equipment industry, a principal industry customer, is dominated by a small number of large companies with few optical components suppliers. Existing suppliers could exert pressure to keep out new entrants.
The market for our products is very competitive; our competition may be able to more effectively develop and market their products.
The photonics industry is highly competitive and is marked by rapid technological change and product obsolescence. We expect such conditions to continue.
Our competitors include large companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, broader product lines, greater name recognition and longer standing relationships with customers than we do. Our competitors include both companies already manufacturing large volumes of products based on established technologies, as well as companies selling emerging technological solutions. Potential competitors could also include our own customers, which may decide to manufacture products competitive with ours, rather than purchasing our products. Potential competitors may develop technology and products comparable or superior to ours.
We do not know if we can effectively manage the growth of our business.
Our success will depend on the expansion of our operations and the effective management of growth, which will place a significant strain on our management, operations and financial resources. In particular, once we begin volume assembly of our products, our operations are anticipated to expand substantially. To achieve our plan, we must hire and train additional engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales, administrative and management personnel, and buy additional equipment, facilities, information technology and other infrastructure. We must also continue to develop our management, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. Because we have had little history with the assembly, marketing or sale of our products in large quantities, we do not know if we will be able to expand our business rapidly enough or adequately manage this growth. If we do not accurately predict demand for our products, we may have too much or too little production capacity. If we overestimate demand, we may incur fixed production expenses that are excessive.
We are dependent on key personnel; we need to attract, train and retain additional qualified personnel.
Our success will depend to a significant degree upon the continued services of key management, technical, and scientific personnel, including Dr. S. Iraj Najafi, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Mark Andrews, our Chief Technical Officer, and Dr. Chia-Yen Li, our Chief Operating Officer. We do not currently maintain key-man life insurance on any of our personnel.
Our success will also depend on our ability to attract, train and retain additional management and other highly skilled personnel. Currently, we are seeking to hire skilled engineers for our assembly process. Our competitors for qualified personnel are often long-established, highly profitable companies and the process of hiring qualified personnel is often lengthy. Our management and other employees may voluntarily leave us at any time.
We lack sales and marketing history and may not be able to retain qualified salespeople.
We have no history in marketing, selling and distributing our products. Our future profitability will depend on our ability to develop an effective sales force. Competition for employees with sales and marketing experience is intense. We do not know if we will be able to attract and retain qualified salespeople or if we can build an effective sales and marketing organization.
We are subject to additional risks related to international sales and operations.
We expect that international sales will account for a significant portion of our total revenues. International sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including:
o Imposition of government controls o Export license requirements o Restrictions on the export of critical technology o Political and economic instability or conflicts o Trade restrictions, changes in tariffs and taxes o Challenges to patents and other intellectual property rights o Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations o Problems in establishing or managing distributor relationships o General economic conditions.
In addition, as we expand our international operations, we may be required to invoice our sales in local currencies, the value of which may fluctuate in relation to the Canadian and U.S. dollars.
We lack patent protection of our products.
The patent positions of technology companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before a patent is issued. We do not know if our patent applications will result in patents being issued or that any patents issued to us will provide protection against competing technologies or will be held valid if challenged. Others may independently develop products similar to ours or design around or otherwise avoid patents issued to us.
Others may assert claims against us that will result in litigation. Litigation, regardless of its outcome, would result in significant cost to us, as well as diversion of management time. If we were to infringe upon a valid patent, we might have to change our products or obtain licenses from the patent owners. We do not know if such licenses would be available on terms favorable to us or that we would be successful in any attempt to change our products or processes to avoid infringement. In addition, we could be liable for significant monetary damages.
We also rely on trade secret and copyright law, and employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. We can not be sure whether agreements and measures will provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets, copyrights, know-how, or other proprietary information in the event of infringement by others or that others will not independently develop similar technologies.
The laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Our intellectual property may be at additional risk in such markets.
We must comply with environmental regulations, which could be costly.
Our operations and assembly processes are subject to certain federal, provincial and local environmental protection laws and regulations. These relate to our use, handling, storage, discharge and disposal of certain hazardous materials and wastes, the pre-treatment and discharge of process waste waters and the control of process air pollutants. We have put into place procedures to comply with these laws and regulations. We also have safety programs, including training of personnel on safe storage and handling of hazardous materials and wastes. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental regulations. Environmental laws and regulations, however, may become more stringent over time. If we fail to comply with either present or future regulations, we may have significant expenses and may be subject to fines and production halts.
Corporate Governance Risks
We are controlled by insiders, which may prevent a change of control or other corporate transactions.
As of the date hereof, our management, Molex, Polyvalor and McGill University collectively own in excess of 50% of our outstanding common stock. Together, they determine the composition of the Board of Directors and will be able to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. This ability may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that may be favorable to other stockholders or causing a change of control that may not be favorable to by other stockholders.
Under the agreements with Molex, Molex will acquire the non-exclusive right to manufacture and sell certain jointly developed optical chip products in the event we have a change in control. Molex also has rights of first refusal with respect to any sale of stock by certain of our stockholders. Such rights of Molex may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that may be favorable to stockholders other than Molex.
Certain provisions of our corporate documents and state law may prevent or hinder a change of control.
Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and of Delaware law could make it more difficult for another party to acquire us or discourage another party from attempting to acquire us. For example, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws permit us to issue preferred stock with rights senior to the common stock in respect of voting and dividend rights and rights upon liquidation without any further vote or action by stockholders, and provide for a classified Board of Directors. Although we have no present plans to issue preferred stock, the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control and could make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to take certain corporate actions, including the replacement of incumbent directors. Additionally, any such preferred stock may have preference over and harm the rights of the holders of common stock.
We have a significant number of outstanding warrants and options, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock and our ability to sell additional common stock.
As of June 30, 2000, we had outstanding options to purchase a total of 2,277,150 shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of US$9.97 per share and outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 3,091,211 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of US$2.05 per share. Subsequent to June 30, 2000, we issued the Notes and the Investor Warrants. The exercise of outstanding options and warrants and the conversion notes of the Notes will dilute the then current stockholders' ownership of common stock. Sales in the public market of common stock acquired upon such exercise of options and warrants could depress the price of our common stock. The holders of options and warrants can be expected to exercise them at a time when we would be able to sell common stock on terms more favorable than those provided by such options and warrants. This may adversely affect our ability to sell common stock.
Other Risks
We do not pay dividends.
We have never paid any dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying such dividends in the foreseeable future. We will use any future earnings to finance our growth.
The market price of our common stock may increase or decrease significantly.
The market price of our common stock has both increased and decreased significantly. Such market price could be subject to significant future changes in response to various factors and events including:
o The depth and liquidity of the trading market for the common stock o Quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results o The correlation of operating results with the expectations of stockholders and the investment community o The introduction of our products o Conditions in our industry.
In addition, from time to time, the public markets, and in particular the shares of high technology companies, have experienced broad price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of issuers.
We can give no assurances that our forward looking statements will be correct.
Certain forward-looking statements, including statements regarding our expected financial position, business and financing plans are contained in this prospectus or are incorporated in documents annexed as exhibits to this prospectus. These forward-looking statements reflect our views with respect to future events and financial performance. The words, "believe," "expect," "plans" and "anticipate" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such expectations are disclosed in this prospectus. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. We undertake no obligations to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Currency Exchange Rates
All dollar amounts stated in this Form 10-K are in U.S. dollars, except where otherwise specifically indicated. The following table sets forth, for the dates indicated, the rates at the specific date for the Canadian dollar per one U.S. dollar, each expressed in Canadian dollars and based on the noon buying rate in New York City for cable transfers in Canadian dollars as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York:
Fiscal Year Ended June 30 1998 1999 2000 ---- ---- ----
Rate at end of period 1.4717 1.5070 1.4798 Average rate during the period 1.4178 1.5105 1.4732 High of the period 1.4721 1.5770 1.5079 Low for the period 1.3690 1.4512 1.4350
On August 31, 2000, the noon buying rate in the New York City for cable transfers in Canadian dollars as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York was CDN$1.4720 = US$1.00.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Lumenon's corporate and technical headquarters are located in Ville St. Laurent, near Montreal, Canada in a facility of approximately 53,000 square feet. Approximately 64% of the space will be occupied by Lumenon's cleanroom and manufacturing areas and the remainder by its offices.
The lease for the Ville St. Laurent facility is for a period of twelve years ending in July 31 2012, with annual rent in the amount of US$7.10 (CDN$10.50) net per square foot, or US$379,483 (CDN$561,103) in the aggregate for each of the first six years. Thereafter, the annual rent is US$426,612 (CDN$630,789). Operating expenses, including all expenses incurred by the landlord of such facility in connection with the operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of the exterior of the facility and all insurance with respect to the facility, and auxiliary structures and improvements on the land are estimated to be US$2.84 (CDN$4.20) per square foot for the first year, US$151,762 (CDN$224,396) in the aggregate. Lumenon has the option to renew the lease for an additional period of five years at a rate equal to the then current market price for comparable space. The construction of the building was completed in July 2000. Lumenon is currently completing the internal construction of the production facility, including the clean rooms and associated laboratories and installing manufacturing equipment. It is anticipated that the production facility should be operational at the rate of 500 units per day in 2001. Additional equipment and staff should bring this facility to its full capacity of 1,000 units per day by 2002.
Lumenon's Dorval facility has an existing capacity of 20 units per day and will be used to manufacture products until the Ville St. Laurent facility is operational. Once the second facility is operational, it is Lumenon's intention to reconfigure the Dorval facility as an R&D facility with an ancillary production capability. The lease for such facility is for a period of five years ending in January 2004, with annual rent in the amount of US$3.10 (CDN$4.59) net per square foot, or US$22,193 (CDN$32,814) in the aggregate. Taxes and expenses are estimated at US$1.26 (CDN$1.87) per square foot per year, US$9,042 (CDN $13,369) in the aggregate. Lumenon has the option to renew the lease for an additional period of five years at a rate equal to the then current market price for comparable space in the same building. As of June 30, 2000, the Company had spent US$287,788 (CDN$425,523) on leasehold improvements to construct and equip the Dorval facility.
The Company believes that the Ville St. Laurent and Dorval facilities will be adequate for its business as is proposed to be conducted until at least the Spring of 2002.
ITEM 3.