ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our corporate office space is leased from PRG at 1801 S. Gulfway Drive, Office No. 36, Port Arthur, Texas 77640. Our operating assets, which consist of a new delayed coker unit, a hydrocracker unit, and a sulfur recovery complex, are located on a subdivided site totaling less than 50 acres within the Port Arthur refinery. We have entered into a 30-year fully-prepaid ground lease with PRG for the site. Pursuant to the ground lease, PRG has also granted us an easement over the remainder of the Port Arthur refinery and the right to use certain other facilities and equipment at the refinery. For further information regarding the ground lease between us and PRG, see "Business--Summary of Principal Contracts--Ground Lease."
We also lease PRG's crude unit, vacuum tower and one naphtha and two distillate hydrotreaters and the site on which they are located at the Port Arthur refinery. Pursuant to the lease agreement, PRG has also granted us an easement across the remainder of the Port Arthur refinery property, a portion of PRG's dock adjacent to the Port Arthur refinery and specified pipelines and crude oil handling facilities needed to transport crude oil from certain docking facilities in Nederland, Texas to the Port Arthur refinery. For further information regarding the facility and site lease between us and PRG, see "Summary of Principal Contracts--Ancillary Equipment Lease".
RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OUR INDUSTRY
VOLATILE MARGINS IN THE REFINING INDUSTRY MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS AND DECREASE OUR CASH FLOW.
Our financial results are primarily affected by the relationship, or margin, between intermediate and refined product prices and the prices for crude oil. The cost to acquire feedstocks and the price at which we can ultimately sell intermediate and refined products depend upon a variety of factors beyond our control. Historically, refining margins have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Future volatility may negatively affect our results of operations, since the margin between refined product prices and feedstock prices may decrease below the amount needed for us to generate net cash flow sufficient for our needs.
Specific factors, in no particular order, that may affect our refining margins include:
o accidents, interruptions in transportation, inclement weather or other events that cause unscheduled shutdowns or otherwise adversely affect our plants, machinery, pipelines or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers;
o changes in the cost or availability to us of transportation for feedstocks and refined products;
o changes in fuel specifications required by environmental and other laws, particularly with respect to oxygenates and sulfur content;
o failure to successfully implement our planned capital projects or to realize the benefits expected for those projects;
o rulings, judgments or settlements in litigation or other legal matters, including unexpected environmental remediation or compliance costs at our facilities in excess of any reserves, and claims of product liability; and
o aggregate refinery capacity in our industry to convert heavy sour crude oil into refined products.
Other factors that may affect our margins, as well as the margins in the industry in general, include, in no particular order:
o domestic and worldwide refinery overcapacity or undercapacity;
o aggregate demand for crude oil and refined products, which is influenced by factors such as weather patterns, including seasonal fluctuations, and demand for specific products such as jet fuel, which may themselves be influenced by acts of God, nature and acts of terrorism;
o domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks and domestic supply of refined products, including from imports;
o the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to maintain oil price and production controls;
o political conditions in oil producing regions, including the Middle East, Africa and Latin America;
o refining industry utilization rates;
o pricing and other actions taken by competitors that impact the market;
o price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels;
o adoption of or modifications to federal, state or foreign environmental, taxation and other laws and regulations;
o general economic conditions; and
o price fluctuations in natural gas.
A SIGNIFICANT INTERRUPTION OR CASUALTY LOSS AT THE PORT ARTHUR REFINERY COULD REDUCE OUR PRODUCTION AND REDUCE OUR PROFITABILITY, PARTICULARLY IF NOT FULLY COVERED BY INSURANCE.
Our operations could be subject to significant interruption if the Port Arthur refinery were to experience a major accident, be damaged by severe weather or other natural disaster, or otherwise be forced to shut down. Any such shutdown would reduce production. For example, in May 2001 a lightning strike at Port Arthur forced us to reduce throughput at the crude unit by approximately 20,000 bpd and resulted in a ten-day shutdown of the crude unit for repair in July 2001. There is also risk of mechanical failure and equipment shutdowns. Furthermore, if any of the above events were not fully covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, other results of operations and our financial condition.
DISRUPTION OF OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN CRUDE OIL COULD REDUCE OUR MARGINS AND OUR OTHER RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
We have a long-term crude oil supply contract, and the remainder of our crude oil supply is acquired on the spot market from unaffiliated sources or from PRG pursuant to a services and supply agreement. Further, our feedstock requirements are supplied from the Middle East and Mexico, and we are subject to the political, geographic and economic risks attendant to doing business with suppliers located in those regions. In the event that our long-term supply contract was terminated, we may not be able to find alternative sources of supply. If we are unable to obtain adequate crude oil volumes or are only able to obtain such volumes at unfavorable prices, our margins and our other results of operations could be materially adversely affected.
WE ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT UPON ONE OF PEMEX'S AFFILIATES FOR ITS SUPPLY OF HEAVY SOUR CRUDE OIL, WHICH COULD BE INTERRUPTED BY EVENTS BEYOND THE CONTROL OF PEMEX.
Currently, we source approximately 80% of our crude oil from P.M.I. Comercio Internacional, S.A. de C.V., or P.M.I, an affiliate of PEMEX, the Mexican state oil company, under a long-term supply agreement that expires in 2011. Therefore, a large proportion of our crude oil needs is influenced by the adequacy of PEMEX's crude oil reserves, the estimates of which are not precise and are subject to revision at any time. In the event that PEMEX's affiliate were to terminate our crude oil supply agreement or default on its supply obligations, we would need to obtain heavy sour crude oil from another supplier and would lose the potential benefits of the coker gross margin support mechanism contained in the supply agreement. Alternative supplies of crude oil may not be available or may not be on terms as favorable as those negotiated with PEMEX's affiliate. In addition, the processing of crude oil supplied by a third party may require changes to the configuration of the Port Arthur refinery, which could require significant unbudgeted capital expenditures.
Furthermore, the obligation of PEMEX's affiliate to deliver heavy sour crude oil under the agreement may be delayed or excused by the occurrence of conditions and events beyond the reasonable control of PEMEX, such as:
o extreme weather-related conditions;
o production or operational difficulties and blockades;
o embargoes or interruptions, declines or shortages of supply available for export from Mexico, including shortages due to increased domestic demand and other national or international political events; and
o certain laws, changes in laws, decrees, directives or actions of the government of Mexico.
The government of Mexico may direct a reduction in our supply of crude oil, so long as that action is taken in common with proportionately equal supply reductions under its long-term crude oil supply agreements with other parties and the amount by which it reduces the quantity of crude oil to be sold to us shall first be applied to reduce quantities of crude oil scheduled for sale and delivery to the Port Arthur refinery under any other crude oil supply agreement with us or any of our affiliates. Mexico is not a member of OPEC, but in 1998 it agreed with the governments of Saudi Arabia and Venezuela to reduce Mexico's exports of crude oil by 200,000 bpd. In March 1999, Mexico further agreed to cut exports of crude oil by an additional 125,000 bpd. As a consequence, during 1999, PEMEX reduced its supply of oil under some oil supply contracts by invoking an excuse clause based on governmental action similar to one contained in our long-term crude oil supply agreement. It is possible that PEMEX could reduce our supply of crude oil by similarly invoking the excuse provisions in the future.
COMPETITORS WHO PRODUCE THEIR OWN SUPPLY OF FEEDSTOCKS, MAKE ALTERNATIVE FUELS OR HAVE GREATER FINANCIAL RESOURCES THAN US MAY HAVE A COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE.
The refining industry is highly competitive with respect to both feedstock supply and refined product markets. We compete with numerous other companies for available supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks. We are not engaged in the petroleum exploration and production business and therefore do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. Many of our competitors, however, obtain a significant portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production. Competitors that have their own production, with brand-name recognition, are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or relating operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. A number of our competitors also have materially greater financial and other resources we possess. These competitors have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of the refining industry. In addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of industrial, commercial and individual consumers. If we are unable to compete effectively with these competitors, both within and outside of the industry, our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our business prospects, could be materially adversely affected.
OUR SUBSTANTIAL INDEBTEDNESS MAY LIMIT OUR FINANCIAL FLEXIBILITY.
Our substantial indebtedness has significantly affected our financial flexibility historically and may significantly affect our financial flexibility in the future. As of December 31, 2001, we had total consolidated long-term debt of $542.6 million and unrestricted cash of $222.8 million. As of December 31, 2001, we had stockholders' equity of $242.3 million, resulting in a total long-term debt to total capital ratio of 69.1%. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future, although our ability to do so will be restricted by the terms of our existing indebtedness. The level of our indebtedness has several important consequences for our future operations, including that:
o a significant portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes;
o covenants contained in our existing debt arrangements require us to meet or maintain certain financial tests, which may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our industry, such as being able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities when they arise;
o our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes may be limited;
o we may be at a competitive disadvantage to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; and
o we may be more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions.
RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS IN OUR DEBT INSTRUMENTS MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO CONSUMMATE CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS.
Various restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may restrict our financial flexibility in a number of ways. Our indebtedness subjects us to significant financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments and investments, consummate certain asset sales or asset swaps, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, conduct businesses other than our current businesses, merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. Some of our debt instruments also require us to satisfy or maintain certain financial condition tests. Our ability to meet these financial condition tests can be affected by events beyond our control and we may not meet such tests.
WE HAVE SIGNIFICANT PRINCIPAL PAYMENTS UNDER OUR INDEBTEDNESS COMING DUE IN THE NEXT SEVERAL YEARS; WE MAY BE UNABLE TO REPAY OR REFINANCE SUCH INDEBTEDNESS.
We have significant principal payments due under our debt instruments. We will be required to make the following principal payments on our long-term debt: $79.6 million in 2002; $32.1 million in 2003; $47.4 million in 2004; $66.0 million in 2005; $54.4 million in 2006; and $263.1 million in the aggregate thereafter. In accordance with the secured account structure, on January 15, 2002, Port Arthur Finance made a $59.7 million mandatory prepayment of debt under its bank senior loan agreement.
Our ability to meet our principal obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which in turn will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay our substantial indebtedness. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, we may be required to sell assets, to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing. Refinancing may not be possible and additional financing may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all.
COMPLIANCE WITH, AND CHANGES IN, ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION.
We are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, pollution prevention, remediation of contaminated sites and the characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels. In addition, some of these laws and regulations require our facilities to operate under permits that are subject to renewal or modification. These laws and regulations and permits can often require expensive pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit impacts or potential impacts on the environment and/or health and safety. A violation of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations significantly contributes to our operating costs. In addition, we have made and expect to make substantial capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws and regulations.
In addition, new laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of environmental laws or other developments could require us to make additional expenditures. These expenditures or costs for environmental compliance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Liquidity and Capital Resources--Cash Flows from Investing Activities." For example, the EPA has promulgated new regulations under the federal Clean Air Act that establish stringent sulfur content specifications for gasoline and low-sulfur highway, or "on-road" diesel fuel designed to reduce air emissions from the use of these products.
In February 2000, the EPA promulgated the Tier 2 Motor Vehicle Emission Standards Final Rule for all passenger vehicles, establishing standards for sulfur content in gasoline. These regulations mandate that the sulfur content of gasoline at any refinery not exceed 30 ppm during any calendar year by January 1, 2006. These requirements will be phased in beginning on January 1, 2004. Modifications will be required at the Port Arthur refinery, including our heavy oil processing facility, as a result of the Tier 2 standards. Based on our current estimates, we believe that compliance with the new Tier 2 gasoline specifications will require capital expenditures in the aggregate through 2005 of approximately one million dollars for our facility.
In January 2001, the EPA promulgated its on-road diesel regulations, which will require a 97% reduction in the sulfur content of diesel fuel sold for highway use by June 1, 2006, with full compliance by January 1, 2010. Refining industry groups have filed two lawsuits, which may delay implementation of the on-road diesel rule beyond 2006. In its release, the EPA estimated that the overall cost to fuel producers of the reduction in sulfur content would be approximately $0.04 per gallon. The EPA has also announced its intention to review the sulfur content in diesel fuel sold to off-road consumers. If regulations are promulgated to regulate the sulfur content of off-road diesel, we expect the sulfur requirement to be either 500 ppm, which is the current on-road limit, or 15 ppm, which will be the future on-road limit. We estimate our capital expenditures in the aggregate through 2006 required to comply with the diesel standards at our heavy oil processing facility, utilizing existing technologies, is approximately $110 million. More than 90% of the projected investment is expected to be incurred during 2004 through 2006 with the greatest concentration of spending occurring in 2005. We intend to coordinate the investment to comply with these new specifications with a potential joint project with PRG to expand the crude oil throughput capacity of the Port Arthur refinery to 300,000 bpd. We believe this project, combined with the low sulfur gasoline and diesel fuel investments, will offer a reasonable return on capital.
ENVIRONMENTAL CLEAN-UP AND REMEDIATION COSTS OF OUR SITE COULD DECREASE OUR NET CASH FLOW, REDUCE OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND IMPAIR OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION.
We are subject to liability for the investigation and clean-up of environmental contamination at the property that we lease. There is extensive contamination at the Port Arthur refinery site. PRG has agreed to retain liability regarding contamination existing at the heavy oil processing facility site as of the date of the lease agreement for such site and has indemnified us against such liability. However, if PRG fails to satisfy its obligations for any reason, or if significant liabilities arise with respect to future contamination, we may become responsible for the remediation. If we are forced to assume liability for the cost of this remediation, such liability could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. See "Business-- Environmental Matters and--Environmental Remediation."
WE HAVE HAD LIMITED OPERATING EXPERIENCE WITH THE NEW COKER UNIT AND OTHER EQUIPMENT CONSTRUCTED AS PART OF THE HEAVY OIL UPGRADE PROJECT AT THE PORT ARTHUR REFINERY AND MAY EXPERIENCE AN INTERRUPTION OF OUR COKER OPERATIONS.
Although we completed construction of the heavy oil processing facility at our Port Arthur refinery in December 2000 and commenced operation of the facility in the first quarter of 2001, we have a limited operating history associated with the newly constructed facility and related equipment. Therefore, we cannot be sure that the facility will continue to operate as designed or that it will be integrated effectively with the rest of the units and equipment at the Port Arthur refinery. Failure of the facility to operate successfully could have a material adverse impact on our earnings, other results of operations and financial condition.
A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR WORKFORCE IS UNIONIZED AND WE MAY FACE LABOR DISRUPTIONS THAT WOULD INTERFERE WITH OUR REFINERY OPERATIONS.
As of December 31, 2001, we employed 51 people, approximately 90% of whom are covered by a collective bargaining agreement which expires in January 2006. Our relationships with the relevant unions have been good and we have never experienced a work stoppage as a result of labor disagreements; however, we cannot assure you that this situation will continue. A labor disturbance could have a material adverse effect on our operations.
ITEM 3.