Item 2. Properties
Estimated Net Proved Reserves
The table below summarizes our estimated net proved reserves at December 31, 2020 and 2019 based on reports prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“Cawley”), our third-party independent reserve engineers for the years ending December 31, 2020 and 2019. In preparing its reports, Cawley evaluated properties representing all of our proved reserves at December 31, 2020 and 2019 in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC applicable to companies involved in oil and natural gas producing activities. Our estimated net proved reserves in the table below do not include probable or possible reserves and do not in any way include or reflect our commodity derivatives.
___________________
(1)The table above values oil and natural gas reserve quantities as of December 31, 2020 assuming constant realized prices of $32.69 per barrel of oil and $1.61 per Mcf of natural gas. Under SEC guidelines, these prices represent the average prices per barrel of oil and per Mcf of natural gas at the beginning of each month in the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, after adjustment to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials.
(2)The table above values oil and natural gas reserve quantities as of December 31, 2019 assuming constant realized prices of $50.53 per barrel of oil and $2.12 per Mcf of natural gas. Under SEC guidelines, these prices represent the average prices per barrel of oil and per Mcf of natural gas at the beginning of each month in the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, after adjustment to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials.
Estimated net proved reserves at December 31, 2020 were 122,632 MBoe, a 25% decrease from estimated net proved reserves of 163,307 MBoe at December 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily due to a 35% reduction in the SEC-prescribed oil price at year-end 2020 as compared to 2019 and a decrease in development activity. As a result of lower demand caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the oversupply of crude oil, spot and future prices of crude oil fell to historic lows during the second quarter of 2020, which in turn reduced development activity in the Williston Basin. The decrease in development activity in 2020 led to a 56% reduction in our developmental capital expenditures compared to 2019 as well as a decrease in the number of undeveloped drilling locations reflected in our 2020 proved reserve estimates. The number of proved undeveloped wells included in the reserves was reduced from 107.5 net wells in 2019 to 58.8 net wells in 2020.
The following table sets forth summary information by reserve category with respect to estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2020:
_____ ___________
(1)The SEC Pricing Proved Reserves table above values oil and natural gas reserve quantities and related discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2020 based on average prices of $39.57 per barrel of oil and $1.99 per MMbtu of natural gas. Under SEC guidelines, these prices represent the average prices per barrel of oil and per MMbtu of natural gas at the beginning of each month in the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period. The average resulting price used as of December 31, 2020, after adjustment to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials, was $32.69 per barrel of oil and $1.61 per Mcf of natural gas.
(2)Boe are computed based on a conversion ratio of one Boe for each barrel of oil and one Boe for every 6,000 cubic feet (i.e., 6 Mcf) of natural gas.
(3)Pre-tax PV10%, or “PV-10,” may be considered a non-GAAP financial measure as defined by the SEC and is derived from the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, which is the most directly comparable GAAP measure. See “Reconciliation of PV-10 to Standardized Measure” below.
The table above assumes prices and costs discounted using an annual discount rate of 10% without future escalation, without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and depreciation, depletion and amortization, or federal income taxes. The information in the table above does not give any effect to or reflect our commodity derivatives.
Reconciliation of PV-10 to Standardized Measure
PV-10 is derived from the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows, which is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure for proved reserves calculated using SEC pricing. PV-10 is a computation of the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows on a pre-tax basis. PV-10 is equal to the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows at the applicable date, before deducting future income taxes, discounted at 10 percent. We believe that the presentation of PV-10 is relevant and useful to investors because it presents the discounted future net cash flows attributable to our estimated net proved reserves prior to taking into account future corporate income taxes, and it is a useful measure for evaluating the relative monetary significance of our oil and natural gas properties. Further, investors may utilize the measure as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our reserves to other companies. Moreover, GAAP does not provide a measure of estimated future net cash flows for reserves other than proved reserves or for reserves calculated using prices other than SEC prices. We use this measure when assessing the potential return on investment related to our oil and natural gas properties. PV-10, however, is not a substitute for the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows. Our PV-10 measure and the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows do not purport to represent the fair value of our oil and natural gas reserves.
The following table reconciles the pre-tax PV10% value of our SEC Pricing Proved Reserves as of December 31, 2020 to the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows.
____________
(1)The expected tax benefits to be realized from utilization of the net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards are used in the computation of future income tax cash flows. As a result of available net operating loss carryforwards and the remaining tax basis of our assets at December 31, 2020, our future income taxes were significantly reduced.
Uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many risk factors beyond our control. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating subsurface accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. As a result, estimates of proved reserves may vary depending upon the engineer estimating the reserves. Further, our actual realized price for our oil and natural gas is not likely to average the pricing parameters used to calculate our proved reserves. As such, the oil and natural gas quantities and the value of those commodities ultimately recovered from our properties will vary from reserve estimates.
Additional discussion of our proved reserves is set forth under the heading “Supplemental Oil and Gas Information - Unaudited” to our financial statements included later in this report.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
At December 31, 2020, we had approximately 38.5 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves as compared to 66.7 MMBoe at December 31, 2019. A reconciliation of the change in proved undeveloped reserves during 2020 is as follows:
Our future development drilling program includes the drilling of approximately 58.8 proven undeveloped net wells before the end of 2025 at an estimated cost of $341.0 million. Our development plan for drilling proved undeveloped wells calls for the drilling of 22.8 net wells during 2021 (includes 13.6 net wells drilled at December 31, 2020, but classified as proved undeveloped due to Cawley’s internal guidelines which require greater than 50% of total costs to be incurred to be classified as developed), 13.3 net wells during 2022, 10.5 net wells during 2023 and 12.2 net wells during 2024 for a total of 58.8 net wells. Our proved undeveloped locations were reduced from 107.5 net wells at December 31, 2019 to 58.8 net wells at December 31, 2020 due to lower commodity prices and reduced development activity. We expect that our proved undeveloped reserves will continue to be converted to proved developed producing reserves as additional wells are drilled including our acreage. All locations comprising our remaining proved undeveloped reserves are forecast to be drilled within five years from initially being recorded in accordance with our development plan.
At December 31, 2020, the PV-10 value of our proved undeveloped reserves amounted to 14% of the PV-10 value of our total proved reserves. Although our 2020 producing property additions exceeded our 5-year average development plan, there are numerous uncertainties. The development of these reserves is dependent upon a number of factors which include, but are not limited to: financial targets such as drilling within cash flow or reducing debt, drilling of obligatory wells, satisfactory rates of return on proposed drilling projects, and the levels of drilling activities by operators in areas where we hold leasehold interests. During 2020, we decreased our development capital spending by 56% compared to 2019. With 72% of the PV-10
value of our total proved reserves supported by producing wells, we believe we will have sufficient cash flows and adequate liquidity to execute our development plan.
At December 31, 2020, we had spent a total of $69.9 million related to the development of proved undeveloped reserves, which resulted in the conversion of 10.4 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2019 to proved developed reserves as of December 31, 2020. Proved developed property additions in 2020 also included 2.8 MMBoe from the conversion of previously undeveloped locations that were not booked in our December 31, 2019 proved undeveloped reserves (the related development costs incurred at December 31, 2020 were $28.3 million). Additionally, our proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2020 included 8.2 MMBoe for net wells that had commenced drilling activities but remained classified as undeveloped reserves due to Cawley’s internal guidelines which require greater than 50% of the total costs to have been incurred in order to be classified as proved developed (the related development costs incurred at December 31, 2020 were $20.5 million).
In 2020, we also added 5.6 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves as a result of our acquisition and development activity. The SEC-prescribed commodity prices (after adjustment for transportation, quality and basis differentials) were $17.84 lower per barrel of oil and $0.51 lower per Mcf of natural gas at year-end 2020 as compared to year-end 2019. Additionally, we had negative revisions of 20.6 MMBoe primarily due to the aforementioned lower pricing. We also removed 2.8 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves due to the SEC-prescribed 5-year rule.
Proved Reserves Sensitivity by Price Scenario
The SEC disclosure rules allow for optional reserves sensitivity analysis, such as the sensitivity that oil and natural gas reserves have to price fluctuations. We have chosen to compare our proved reserves from the 2020 SEC case to two alternate pricing cases. The first alternate scenario uses a flat pricing deck of $50.00 per Bbl for oil and $2.50 per MMbtu for natural gas (the “$50 Flat Case”). The second alternate scenario uses a flat pricing deck of $60.00 per Bbl for oil and $2.50 per MMbtu for natural gas (the “$60 Flat Case”). The sensitivity scenarios were not audited by a third party. In these sensitivity scenarios, all operating cost assumptions and other factors, other than the commodity price assumptions, have been held constant with the SEC case. However, the higher pricing in the sensitivity scenarios did result in additional future drilling locations that became economic under the $50 Flat Case and the $60 Flat Case, while they were not economic under the 2020 SEC case. As a result, the $50 Flat Case and the $60 Flat Case included an additional 24.4 and 44.6 proved undeveloped net wells, respectively, compared to the 58.8 proved undeveloped net wells included in the 2020 SEC case. These sensitivities are only meant to demonstrate the impact that changing commodity prices may have on estimated proved reserves and PV-10 and there is no assurance these outcomes will be realized. The table below shows our proved reserves utilizing the 2020 SEC case compared with the two alternate price scenarios.
_________________
(1)Represents reserves based on pricing prescribed by the SEC. The unescalated twelve month arithmetic average of the first day of the month posted prices were adjusted for transportation and quality differentials to arrive at prices of $32.69 per Bbl for oil and $1.61 per Mcf for natural gas. Production costs were held constant for the life of the wells.
(2)Prices based on $50.00 per Bbl for oil and $2.50 per MMbtu for natural gas, which were then adjusted for transportation and quality differentials to arrive at prices of $43.06 per Bbl for oil and $2.00 per Mcf for natural gas.
(3)Prices based on $60.00 per Bbl for oil and $2.50 per MMbtu for natural gas, which were then adjusted for transportation and quality differentials to arrive at prices of $53.04 per Bbl for oil and $1.84 per Mcf for natural gas.
(4)Pre-tax PV10%, or PV-10, may be considered a non-GAAP financial measure. See “Reconciliation of PV-10 to Standardized Measure” above for a reconciliation of the PV-10 of our SEC Case proved reserves to the Standardized Measure. GAAP does not prescribe a corresponding measure for PV-10 of proved reserves based on other than SEC prices. As a result, it is not practicable for us to reconcile the PV-10 of our proved reserves based on the alternate pricing scenarios.
Independent Petroleum Engineers
We have utilized Cawley, an independent reserve engineering firm, as our third-party engineering firm. The selection of Cawley was approved by our Audit Committee. Cawley is a reservoir-evaluation consulting firm who evaluates oil and natural gas properties and independently certifies petroleum reserves quantities for various clients throughout the United States. Cawley has substantial experience calculating the reserves of various other companies with operations targeting the Bakken and Three Forks formations and, as such, we believe Cawley has sufficient experience to appropriately determine our reserves. Cawley utilizes proprietary technology, systems and data to calculate our reserves commensurate with this experience. The reports of our estimated proved reserves in their entirety are based on the information we provide to them. Cawley is a Texas Registered Engineering Firm (F-693). Our primary contact at Cawley is Todd Brooker, President. Mr. Brooker is a State of Texas Licensed Professional Engineer (License #83462). He is also a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
In accordance with applicable requirements of the SEC, estimates of our net proved reserves and future net revenues are made using average prices at the beginning of each month in the 12-month period prior to the date of such reserve estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties (except to the extent a contract specifically provides for escalation).
The reserves set forth in the Cawley report for the properties are estimated by performance methods or analogy. In general, reserves attributable to producing wells and/or reservoirs are estimated by performance methods such as decline curve analysis which utilizes extrapolations of historical production data. Reserves attributable to non-producing and undeveloped reserves included in our report are estimated by analogy. The estimates of the reserves, future production, and income attributable to properties are prepared using the economic software package Aries for Windows, a copyrighted program of Halliburton.
To estimate economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and related future net cash flows, we consider many factors and assumptions including, but not limited to, the use of reservoir parameters derived from geological, geophysical and engineering data which cannot be measured directly, economic criteria based on current costs and SEC pricing requirements, and forecasts of future production rates. Under the SEC regulations 210.4-10(a)(22)(v) and (26), proved reserves must be demonstrated to be economically producible based on existing economic conditions including the prices and costs at which economic productivity from a reservoir is to be determined as of the effective date of the report. With respect to the property interests we own, production and well tests from examined wells, normal direct costs of operating the wells or leases, other costs such as transportation and/or processing fees, production taxes, recompletion and development costs and product prices are based on the SEC regulations, geological maps, well logs, core analyses, and pressure measurements.
The reserve data set forth in the Cawley report represents only estimates, and should not be construed as being exact quantities. They may or may not be actually recovered, and if recovered, the actual revenues and costs could be more or less than the estimated amounts. Moreover, estimates of reserves may increase or decrease as a result of future operations.
Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values, including many factors beyond our control. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geologic interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by us, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and other factors. The revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered and are highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. Our estimated net proved reserves, included in our SEC filings, have not been filed with or included in reports to any other federal agency. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors - Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.”
Internal Controls Over Reserves Estimation Process
We utilize a third-party reservoir engineering firm, as our independent reserves evaluator for 100% of our reserves base. In addition, we employ an internal reserve engineering department which is led by our Senior Vice President of Engineering, who is responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserves estimates. Our senior internal reserve engineer has a B.S. in petroleum engineering from Montana Tech, has over fifteen years of oil and gas experience on the reservoir side, and has experience working for large independent and financial firms on projects and acquisitions.
Our technical team meets with our independent third-party engineering firm to review properties and discuss evaluation methods and assumptions used in the proved reserves estimates, in accordance with our prescribed internal control procedures. Our internal controls over the reserves estimation process include verification of input data into our reserves evaluation software as well as management review, such as, but not limited to the following:
•Comparison of historical expenses from the lease operating statements and workover authorizations for expenditure to the operating costs input in our reserves database;
•Review of working interests and net revenue interests in our reserves database against our well ownership system;
•Review of historical realized prices and differentials from index prices as compared to the differentials used in our reserves database;
•Review of updated capital costs prepared by our operations team;
•Review of internal reserve estimates by well and by area by our internal reservoir engineer;
•Discussion of material reserve variances among our internal reservoir engineer and our executive management; and
•Review of a preliminary copy of the reserve report by executive management.
Production, Price and Production Expense History
The price that we receive for the oil and natural gas we produce is largely a function of market supply and demand. Demand is impacted by general economic conditions, weather and other seasonal conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms. Over or under supply of oil or natural gas can result in substantial price volatility. Oil supply in the United States has grown dramatically over the past few years, and the supply of oil could impact oil prices in the United States if the supply outstrips domestic demand. Historically, commodity prices have been volatile, and we expect that volatility to continue in the future. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices or poor drilling results could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, quantities of oil and natural gas reserves that may be economically produced and our ability to access capital markets.
The following table sets forth information regarding our oil and natural gas production, realized prices and production costs for the periods indicated. For additional information on price calculations, please see information set forth in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
Drilling and Development Activity
The following table sets forth the number of gross and net productive and non-productive wells drilled in the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. The number of wells drilled refers to the number of wells completed at any time during the fiscal year, regardless of when drilling was initiated.
______________
(1)Net Well totals in 2020, 2019 and 2018 do not include an additional 1.0, 90.1 and 65.8 net wells, respectively, from acquisitions which were already producing when acquired.
The following table summarizes our cumulative gross and net productive oil wells by geographic area within the United States at each of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.
As of December 31, 2020, we had an additional 375 gross (28.1 net) wells in process, meaning wells that have been spud and are in the process of drilling, completing or waiting on completion.
Leasehold Properties
As of December 31, 2020, our principal assets included approximately 183,527 net acres located in the United States. The following table summarizes our estimated gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage by geographic area at December 31, 2020.
As of December 31, 2020, approximately 90% of our total acreage was developed. All of our proved reserves are located in the United States.
Recent Acquisitions
We generally assess acreage subject to near-term drilling activities on a lease-by-lease basis because we believe each lease’s contribution to a subject spacing unit is best assessed on that basis if development timing is sufficiently clear. Consistent with that approach, a significant portion of our acreage acquisitions involve properties that are selected by us on a lease-by-lease basis for their participation in a well expected to be spud in the near future, and the subject leases are then aggregated to complete one single closing with the transferor. As such, we generally view each acreage assignment from brokers, landmen and other parties as involving several separate acquisitions combined into one closing with the common transferor for convenience. However, in certain instances an acquisition may involve a larger number of leases presented by the transferors as a single package without negotiation on a lease-by-lease basis. In those instances, we still review each lease on a lease-by-lease basis to ensure that the package as a whole meets our acquisition criteria and drilling expectations. See Note 3 to our financial statements regarding our recent acquisition activity.
Acreage Expirations
As a non-operator, we are subject to lease expirations if an operator does not commence the development of operations within the agreed terms of our leases. All of our leases for undeveloped acreage summarized in the table below will expire at the end of their respective primary terms, unless we renew the existing leases, establish commercial production from the acreage or some other “savings clause” is exercised. In addition, our leases typically provide that the lease does not expire at the end of the primary term if drilling operations have been commenced. While we generally expect to establish production from most of our acreage prior to expiration of the applicable lease terms, there can be no guarantee we can do so. The approximate expiration of our net acres which are subject to expire between 2021 and 2025 and thereafter, are set forth below:
During 2020, we had leases expire covering approximately 1,720 net acres. The 2020 lease expirations carried a cost of $2.9 million. We believe that the expired acreage was not material to our capital deployed.
Unproved Properties
All properties that are not classified as proved properties are considered unproved properties and, thus, the costs associated with such properties are not subject to depletion. Once a property is classified as proved, all associated acreage and drilling costs are subject to depletion.
We assess all items classified as unproved property on an annual basis, or if certain circumstances exist, more frequently, for possible impairment or reduction in value. The assessment includes consideration of the following factors, among others: intent to drill, remaining lease term, geological and geophysical evaluations, drilling results and activity, the assignment of proved reserves, and the economic viability of development if proved reserves are assigned. During any period in which these factors indicate an impairment, the cumulative drilling costs incurred to date for such property and all or a portion of the associated leasehold costs are transferred to the full cost pool and are then subject to depletion and amortization.
We historically have acquired our properties by purchasing individual or small groups of leases directly from mineral owners or from landmen or lease brokers, which leases generally have not been subject to specified drilling projects, and by purchasing lease packages in identified project areas controlled by specific operators. We generally participate in drilling activities on a proportionate basis by electing whether to participate in each well on a well-by-well basis at the time wells are proposed for drilling.
We believe that the majority of our unproved costs will become subject to depletion within the next five years by proving up reserves relating to its acreage through exploration and development activities, by impairing the acreage that will expire before we can explore or develop it further or by determining that further exploration and development activity will not occur. The timing by which all other properties will become subject to depletion will be dependent upon the timing of future drilling activities and delineation of our reserves.
Depletion of Oil and Natural Gas Properties
Our depletion expense is driven by many factors including certain exploration costs involved in the development of producing reserves, production levels and estimates of proved reserve quantities and future developmental costs. The following table presents our depletion expenses during 2020, 2019 and 2018.
Research and Development
We do not anticipate performing any significant research and development under our plan of operation.
Delivery Commitments
We do not currently have any delivery commitments for product obtained from our wells.
Item 3.