Item 2. Properties
Leasehold Properties
As of December 31, 2011, our principal assets included approximately 168,843 net acres located in the northern region of the United States. Net acreage represents our percentage ownership of gross acreage. The following table summarizes our estimated gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage by state at December 31, 2011.
Recent Acreage Acquisitions
In 2011, we acquired leasehold interests covering an aggregate of approximately 43,239 net mineral acres in our key prospect areas, for an average cost of $1,832 per net acre. These acquisitions consisted of an average of approximately 244 net mineral acres per transaction.
We generally assess acreage subject to near-term drilling activities on a lease-by-lease basis because we believe each lease’s contribution to a subject spacing unit is best assessed on that basis if development timing is sufficiently clear. Consistent with that approach, the majority of our acreage acquisitions involve properties that are “hand-picked” by us on a lease-by-lease basis for their contribution to a well expected to be spud in the near future, and the subject leases are then aggregated to complete one single closing with the transferor. As such, we generally view each acreage assignment from brokers, landmen and other parties as involving several separate acquisitions combined into one closing with the common transferor for convenience. However, in certain instances an acquisition may involve a larger number of leases presented by the transferors as a single package without negotiation on a lease-by-lease basis. In those instances, we still review each lease on a lease-by-lease basis to ensure that the package as a whole meets our acquisition criteria and drilling expectations.
Divestitures
In November 2009, we agreed to participate in the exploration and development of Slawson Exploration Company, Inc.’s (“Slawson”) Anvil project in Roosevelt and Sheridan Counties, Montana and Williams County, North Dakota. In April 2011, we sold our interest in the Anvil project for $5.0 million. As of the date of sale, our cost basis in the Anvil project was $1.8 million. We sold our interest in the project along with Slawson, who also desired to sell its entire interest in the project. Slawson had drilled and completed one well in the project area prior to the divestiture - the Mayhem #1-19H well - and we retained our interest in that wellbore in connection with the divestiture. The proceeds from the sale were applied to reduce the capitalized costs of oil and gas properties.
Acreage Expirations
As a non-operator, we are subject to lease expirations if an operator does not commence the development of operations within the agreed terms of our leases. All of our leases for undeveloped acreage summarized in the table below will expire at the end of their respective primary terms, unless we renew the existing leases, establish commercial production from the acreage or some other “savings clause” is exercised. In addition, our leases typically provide that the lease does not expire at the end of the primary term if drilling operations have been commenced. While we generally expect to establish production from most of our acreage prior to expiration of the applicable lease terms, there can be no guarantee we can do so. The approximate expiration of our gross and net acres which are subject to expire between 2012 and 2016 and thereafter, are set forth below:
During 2011, we had leases expire in Montana, New York and North Dakota covering approximately 26,428 net acres, of which approximately 15,673 net acres were prospective for the Bakken and Three Forks Formations in Montana and North Dakota. The 2011 lease expirations carried a $9 million cost which was transferred to the costs subject to depletion. We believe that the expired acreage was not material to our capital deployed in these prospects. We do not consider the expiration of acreage during 2011 to be material.
Unproved Properties
All properties that are not classified as proved properties are considered unproved properties and, thus, the costs associated with such properties are not subject to depletion. Once a property is classified as proved, all associated acreage and drilling costs are subject to depletion.
We historically have acquired our properties by purchasing individual or small groups of leases directly from mineral owners or from landmen or lease brokers, which leases generally have not been subject to specified drilling projects, and by purchasing lease packages in identified project areas controlled by specific operators. We generally participate in drilling activities on a proportionate basis by electing whether to participate in each well on a well-by-well basis at the time wells are proposed for drilling, with the exception of three defined drilling projects with Slawson.
As of December 31, 2011, we were participating in three defined drilling projects with Slawson covering an aggregate of approximately 17,400 net acres controlled by us. The Windsor project area includes approximately 2,700 net acres controlled by us, primarily located in Mountrail and surrounding counties of North Dakota. The South West Big Sky project includes approximately 3,900 total net acres controlled by us in Richland County, Montana. The Lambert project includes approximately 10,800 total net acres controlled by us in Richland and Dawson Counties, Montana.
We believe that the majority of our unproved costs will become subject to depletion within the next five years by proving up reserves relating to its acreage through exploration and development activities, by impairing the acreage that will expire before we can explore or develop it further or by determining that further exploration and development activity will not occur. The timing by which all other properties will become subject to depletion will be dependent upon the timing of future drilling activities and delineation of our reserves.
Production History
The following table presents information about our produced crude oil and natural gas volumes during the year ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. As of December 31, 2011, we were selling crude oil and natural gas from a total of 664 gross (57.9 net) wells. As of December 31, 2010, we were selling crude oil and natural gas from a total of 311 gross (26.0 net) wells. As of December 31, 2009, we were selling crude oil and natural gas from a total of 179 gross (9.2 net) wells. All of the forgoing wells were located within the Williston Basin. All data presented below is derived from accrued revenue and production volumes for the relevant period indicated.
Depletion of crude oil and natural gas properties
Our depletion expense is driven by many factors including certain exploration costs involved in the development of producing reserves, production levels and estimates of proved reserve quantities and future developmental costs. The following table presents our depletion expenses during 2011, 2010 and 2009.
Drilling and Development Activity
The following table sets forth the number of gross and net productive and non-productive wells for all of our drilling and development activity in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. No wells have been permitted or drilled on any of our Yates County, New York acreage. The following table does not include wells that were awaiting completion, in the process of completion or awaiting flowback subsequent to fracture stimulation. We have not participated in any wells solely targeting natural gas reserves. We have classified all wells drilled to-date targeting the Bakken and Three Forks formations as development wells. As of December 31, 2011, we have had 100% success rate in our North Dakota and Montana Bakken and Three Forks wells.
The following table summarizes our cumulative gross and net productive crude oil wells by state at each of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.
Research and Development
We do not anticipate performing any significant research and development under our plan of operation.
Proved Reserves
We recently completed our most current reservoir engineering calculation as of December 31, 2011.
Based on the results of our December 31, 2011 reserve analysis, our proved reserves increased approximately 198% during 2011 primarily as a result of increased drilling activity involving our acreage and our acquisition of acreage subject to specific drilling projects or included in permitted or drilling spacing units. We incurred approximately $300 million of capital expenditures for drilling activities and $80 million for acreage acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2011, all of which directly contributed to the increase in our proved developed reserves. No other expenditures materially contributed to the development of proved developed reserves in 2011. Our proved undeveloped reserves increased by approximately 234% during 2011 primarily as a result of drilling activity and our acquisitions of acreage. Based on our independent reservoir engineering firm’s calculation of proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2010, approximately 16% of our proved undeveloped reserves were converted to proved developed reserves during 2011. We expect that our proved undeveloped reserves will continue to be converted to proved developed producing reserves as additional wells are drilled including our acreage. We do not have any material amounts of proved undeveloped reserves that have remained undeveloped for five years or more.
At 2011 year end, approximately 31% of our Bakken and Three Forks prospective acreage was developed. In addition, at 2011 year end, we had approximately 17,290 net acres being drilled and completed and approximately 12,886 net acres held by production, for a total of approximately 82,395 net acres, or approximately 49% of our prospective Bakken and Three Forks position, either developed, under the bit or held by production. All of our proved reserves are located in North Dakota and Montana.
Preparation of our reserve report is outlined in our Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 internal control procedures. Our procedures require that our reserve report be prepared by a third-party registered independent engineering firm at the end of every year based on information we provide to such engineer. We utilize historical production and expense data for our wells, calculate historical differentials, validate working interests and net revenue interests, and obtain updated authorizations for expenditure (“AFEs”) from our operations department. This data is forwarded to our third-party engineering firm for review and calculation. Our Chief Executive Officer provides a final review of our reserve report and the assumptions relied upon in such report.
We have utilized Ryder Scott Company, LP (“Ryder Scott”), an independent reservoir engineering firm, as our third-party engineering firm. The selection of Ryder Scott is approved by our Audit Committee. Ryder Scott is one of the largest reservoir-evaluation consulting firms and evaluates crude oil and natural gas properties and independently certifies petroleum reserves quantities for various clients throughout the United States and internationally. Ryder Scott has substantial experience calculating the reserves of various other companies with operations targeting the Bakken and Three Forks formations and, as such, we believe Ryder Scott has sufficient experience to appropriately determine our reserves. Ryder Scott utilizes proprietary technology, systems and data to calculate our reserves commensurate with this experience.
In December 2011, we hired an internal reserve engineer who is responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserves estimates. Our internal reserve engineer possesses a B.S. in chemical and petroleum engineering from the University of Pittsburgh and has ten years of oil and gas experience on the reservoir side. He has worked for large independents and financial firms on projects and acquisitions, both domestic and international. The proved reserves tables below summarize our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2011, based upon reports prepared by Ryder Scott. The reports of our estimated proved reserves in their entirety are based on the information we provide to them. Ryder Scott is a Texas Registered Engineering Firm (F-1580). Our primary contact at Ryder Scott is James L. Baird, Managing Senior Vice President. Mr. Baird is a State of Colorado Licensed Professional Engineer (License #41521).
In accordance with applicable requirements of the SEC, estimates of our net proved reserves and future net revenues are made using average prices at the beginning of each month in the 12-month period prior to the date of such reserve estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties (except to the extent a contract specifically provides for escalation).
The reserves set forth in the Ryder Scott report for the properties are estimated by performance methods or analogy. In general, reserves attributable to producing wells and/or reservoirs are estimated by performance methods such as decline curve analysis which utilizes extrapolations of historical production data. Reserves attributable to non-producing and undeveloped reserves included in our report are estimated by analogy. The estimates of the reserves, future production, and income attributable to properties are prepared using the economic software package Aries for Windows, a copyrighted program of Halliburton.
To estimate economically recoverable crude oil and natural gas reserves and related future net cash flows, we consider many factors and assumptions including, but not limited to, the use of reservoir parameters derived from geological, geophysical and engineering data which cannot be measured directly, economic criteria based on current costs and SEC pricing requirements, and forecasts of future of production rates. Under the SEC regulations 210.4-10(a)(22)(v) and (26), proved reserves must be demonstrated to be economically producible based on existing economic conditions including the prices and costs at which economic producibility from a reservoir is to be determined as of the effective date of the report. With respect to the property interests we own, production and well tests from examined wells, normal direct costs of operating the wells or leases, other costs such as transportation and/or processing fees, production taxes, recompletion and development costs and product prices are based on the SEC regulations, geological maps, well logs, core analyses, and pressure measurements.
The reserve data set forth in the Ryder Scott report represents only estimates, and should not be construed as being exact quantities. They may or may not be actually recovered, and if recovered, the actual revenues and costs could be more or less than the estimated amounts. Moreover, estimates of reserves may increase or decrease as a result of future operations.
Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values, including many factors beyond our control. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geologic interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by us, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing crude oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and other factors. The revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of crude oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered and are highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. Our estimated net proved reserves, included in our SEC filings, have not been filed with or included in reports to any other federal agency. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors - Estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves that we make may be inaccurate and our actual revenues may be lower than our financial projections.”
Ryder Scott prepared our reserve report valuing our proved reserves at December 31, 2011. The report values only our proved reserves and does not value our probable reserves or our possible reserves. The following table sets forth our estimated proved reserves based on the SEC rules as defined in Rule 4.10(a) of Regulation S-X and Item 1200 of Regulation S-K (“SEC Pricing Proved Reserves”).
SEC Pricing Proved Reserves(1)
_____________________
(1)
The SEC Pricing Proved Reserves table above values crude oil and natural gas reserve quantities and related discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2011 assuming constant realized prices of $90.17 per barrel of crude oil and $6.18 per Mcf of natural gas, using a BTU factor of 1.5 to reflect liquids and condensates (natural gas liquids are included with natural gas). Under SEC guidelines, these prices represent the average prices per barrel of crude oil and per Mcf of natural gas at the beginning of each month in the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, which averages are then adjusted to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials.
(2)
BOE are computed based on a conversion ratio of one BOE for each barrel of crude oil and one BOE for every 6,000 cubic feet (i.e., 6 Mcf) of natural gas.
(3)
Pre-tax PV10% may be considered a non-GAAP financial measure as defined by the SEC and is derived from the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, which is the most directly comparable GAAP measure. Pre-tax PV10% is computed on the same basis as the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows but without deducting future income taxes. We believe Pre-tax PV10% is a useful measure for investors for evaluating the relative monetary significance of our crude oil and natural gas properties. We further believe investors may utilize our Pre-tax PV10% as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our reserves to other companies because many factors that are unique to each individual company impact the amount of future income taxes to be paid. Our management uses this measure when assessing the potential return on investment related to our crude oil and natural gas properties and acquisitions. However, Pre-tax PV10% is not a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows. Our Pre-tax PV10% and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows do not purport to present the fair value of our crude oil and natural gas reserves.
The table above assumes prices and costs discounted using an annual discount rate of 10% without future escalation, without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and depreciation, depletion and amortization, or federal income taxes. The “Pre-tax PV10%” values of our proved reserves presented in the foregoing tables may be considered a non-GAAP financial measure as defined by the SEC.
The following table reconciles the pre-tax PV10% value of our SEC Pricing Proved Reserves to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows.
Uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many risk factors beyond our control. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating subsurface accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. As a result, estimates of proved reserves may vary depending upon the engineer valuing the reserves. Further, our actual realized price for our crude oil and natural gas is not likely to average the pricing parameters used to calculate our proved reserves. As such, the crude oil and natural gas quantities and the value of those commodities ultimately recovered from our properties will vary from reserve estimates.
Additional discussion of our proved reserves is set forth under the heading “Supplemental Oil and Gas Information” to our financial statements included later in this report.
Delivery Commitments
We do not currently have any delivery commitments for product obtained from our wells.
Item 3.