Item 2. Properties
Estimated Net Proved Reserves
The table below summarizes our estimated net proved reserves at December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 based on reports prepared by Ryder Scott Company, LP (“Ryder Scott”), our independent reserve engineers. In preparing its reports, Ryder Scott evaluated properties representing all of our proved reserves at December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) applicable to companies involved in oil and natural gas producing activities. Our estimated net proved reserves in the table below do not include probable or possible reserves and do not in any way include or reflect our commodity derivatives.
___________________
(1)
The table above values oil and natural gas reserve quantities as of December 31, 2016 assuming constant realized prices of $35.24 per barrel of oil and $1.67 per Mcf of natural gas. Under SEC guidelines, these prices represent the average prices per barrel of oil and per Mcf of natural gas at the beginning of each month in the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, after adjustment to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials.
(2)
The table above values oil and natural gas reserve quantities as of December 31, 2015 assuming constant realized prices of $42.03 per barrel of oil and $1.63 per Mcf of natural gas. Under SEC guidelines, these prices represent the average prices per barrel of oil and per Mcf of natural gas at the beginning of each month in the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, after adjustment to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials.
(3)
The table above values oil and natural gas reserve quantities as of December 31, 2014 assuming constant realized prices of $83.11 per barrel of oil and $7.37 per Mcf of natural gas. Under SEC guidelines, these prices represent the average prices per barrel of oil and per Mcf of natural gas at the beginning of each month in the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, after adjustment to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials.
Estimated net proved reserves at December 31, 2016 were 54,081 MBoe, a 17% decrease from estimated net proved reserves of 65,298 MBoe at December 31, 2015. The decrease in 2016 total proved reserves was primarily due to the impact of lower commodity prices in 2016 as compared to 2015, which also reduced both the number of undeveloped drilling locations and the expected productive life of economic locations reflected in our 2016 proved reserve estimates. Lower commodity prices and development activity in 2016 led to a reduction in our capital spending below discretionary cash flow levels. As a result of the lower activity levels, the number of proved undeveloped wells included in the reserves was reduced from 48.8 net wells in 2015 to 32.6 net wells in 2016 due to the 5-year rule requirements in the SEC regulations applicable to booking proved undeveloped reserves.
Estimated net proved reserves at December 31, 2015 were 65,298 MBoe, a 35% decrease from estimated net proved reserves of 100,736 MBoe at December 31, 2014. The decrease in 2015 total proved reserves was primarily due to the impact of lower commodity prices in 2015 as compared to 2014, which reduced both the number of locations from which reserves can be economically produced and the expected productive life of economic locations.
The following table sets forth summary information by reserve category with respect to estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2016:
_____ ___________
(1)
The SEC Pricing Proved Reserves table above values oil and natural gas reserve quantities and related discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2016 based on average prices of $42.75 per barrel of oil and $2.49 per Mcf of natural gas. Under SEC guidelines, these prices represent the average prices per barrel of oil and per Mcf of natural gas at the beginning of each month in the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period. The average resulting price used as of December 31, 2016, after adjustment to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials, was $35.24 per barrel of oil and $1.67 per Mcf of natural gas.
(2)
Boe are computed based on a conversion ratio of one Boe for each barrel of oil and one Boe for every 6,000 cubic feet (i.e., 6 Mcf) of natural gas.
(3)
Pre-tax PV10%, or “PV-10,” may be considered a non-GAAP financial measure as defined by the SEC and is derived from the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, which is the most directly comparable GAAP measure. See “Reconciliation of PV-10 to Standardized Measure” below.
The table above assumes prices and costs discounted using an annual discount rate of 10% without future escalation, without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and depreciation, depletion and amortization, or federal income taxes. The information in the table above does not give any effect to or reflect our commodity derivatives.
Reconciliation of PV-10 to Standardized Measure
PV-10 is derived from the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows, which is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. PV-10 is a computation of the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows on a pre-tax basis. PV-10 is equal to the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows at the applicable date, before deducting future income taxes, discounted at 10 percent. We believe that the presentation of PV-10 is relevant and useful to investors because it presents the discounted future net cash flows attributable to our estimated net proved reserves prior to taking into account future corporate income taxes, and it is a useful measure for evaluating the relative monetary significance of our oil and natural gas properties. Further, investors may utilize the measure as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our reserves to other companies. We use this measure when assessing the potential return on investment related to our oil and natural gas properties. PV-10, however, is not a substitute for the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows. Our PV-10 measure and the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows do not purport to represent the fair value of our oil and natural gas reserves.
The following table reconciles the pre-tax PV10% value of our SEC Pricing Proved Reserves as of December 31, 2016 to the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows.
____________
(1)
The expected tax benefits to be realized from utilization of the net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards are used in the computation of future income tax cash flows. As a result of available net operating loss carryforwards and the remaining tax basis of our assets at December 31, 2016, our future income taxes were significantly reduced.
Uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many risk factors beyond our control. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating subsurface accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. As a result, estimates of proved reserves may vary depending upon the engineer valuing the reserves. Further, our actual realized price for our oil and natural gas is not likely to average the pricing parameters used to calculate our proved reserves. As such, the oil and natural gas quantities and the value of those commodities ultimately recovered from our properties will vary from reserve estimates.
Additional discussion of our proved reserves is set forth under the heading “Supplemental Oil and Gas Information - Unaudited” to our financial statements included later in this report.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
At December 31, 2016, we had approximately 16.4 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves as compared to 23.1 MMBoe at December 31, 2015. A reconciliation of the change in proved undeveloped reserves during 2016 is as follows:
During 2016, commodity prices for crude oil, NGL and natural gas experienced continued declines, which has resulted in lower capital spending during 2016 and is expected to approximate our discretionary cash flow in 2017. As a result, we have significantly reduced the proportion of our reserves that have historically been categorized as PUD. This is driven by the current economic price environment, coupled with the uncertain effect that such environment will have on the industry’s access to the capital markets, which reduces the number of PUD locations that we have reasonable certainty to believe will be developed during the five-year time horizon.
Our future development drilling program includes the drilling of approximately 32.6 proven undeveloped net wells before the end of 2021 at an estimated cost of $188.3 million. Our development plan for drilling proved undeveloped wells calls for the drilling of 13.8 net wells during 2017 (includes 7.3 net wells drilled at December 31, 2016, but classified as proved undeveloped due to Ryder Scott internal guidelines which require greater than 65% of total costs to be incurred to be classified as developed), 6.3 net wells during 2018, 4.2 net wells during 2019, 4.9 net wells during 2020 and 3.4 net wells during 2021 for a total of 32.6 net wells. We expect that our proved undeveloped reserves will continue to be converted to proved developed producing reserves as additional wells are drilled including our acreage. All locations comprising our remaining proved undeveloped reserves are forecast to be drilled within five years from initially being recorded in accordance with our development plan.
At December 31, 2016, the PV-10 value of our proved undeveloped reserves amounted to 10% of the PV-10 value of our total proved reserves. Although our historical producing property additions exceed our existing development plans, there are numerous uncertainties. The development of these reserves is dependent upon a number of factors which include, but are not limited to: financial targets such as drilling within cash flow or reducing debt, drilling of obligatory wells, satisfactory rates of return on proposed drilling projects, and the levels of drilling activities by operators in areas where we hold leasehold interests. During 2016, Northern lowered its capital spending by 34% in response to the low commodity price environment. If the existing commodity price environment persists and prices remain lower-for-longer, we plan to continue development within available cash flows and potentially seek the acquisition of producing properties as sufficient liquidity allows. While lower commodity prices could reduce our future borrowing capacity (we had borrowing availability of $206 million under our revolving credit facility at December 31, 2016), with 85% of the PV-10 value of our total proved reserves supported by producing wells, we believe we will have sufficient cash flows and adequate liquidity to complete our development plan.
At December 31, 2016, we had spent a total of $10.8 million related to the development of proved undeveloped reserves, which resulted in the conversion of 1.1 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2015 to proved developed reserves as of December 31, 2016. Proved developed property additions in 2016 also included 0.8 MMBoe from the conversion of previously undeveloped locations that were not booked in our December 31, 2015 proved undeveloped reserves (the related development costs incurred at December 31, 2016 were $8.2 million). Additionally, our proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2016 included 2.2 MMBoe for net wells that had commenced drilling activities but remained classified as undeveloped reserves due to Ryder Scott’s internal guidelines which require greater than 65% of the total costs to have been incurred in order to be classified as proved developed (the related development costs incurred at December 31, 2016 were $17.2 million). We added 7.1 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves primarily in our North Dakota areas of operations as a result of our 2016 drilling program and leasehold acquisitions. We added 294 gross (10.7 net) wells to production during 2016.
In 2016, we also had a net negative revision of 12.7 MMBoe, or 55% of our December 31, 2015 proved undeveloped reserves balance. The negative revision to proved undeveloped reserves in 2016 was driven by two primary factors: (i) significantly lower commodity pricing assumptions and (ii) changes in planned development due to the low commodity price environment that existed at year-end. The SEC-prescribed commodity prices (after adjustment for transportation, quality and basis differentials) were 16% lower per barrel of oil and 2% higher per Mcf of natural gas at year-end 2016 as compared to year-end 2015. The impact of the lower commodity prices in 2016 as compared to 2015 accounted for 69% of the negative revision, as approximately 8.7 MMBoe of proved undeveloped locations were removed from the 2016 reserve report because they became uneconomic due to lower realized pricing. The removal of undeveloped locations not expected to be developed in the existing commodity price environment at year-end resulted in 3.4 MMBoe of negative revisions and 0.6 MMBoe of negative revisions were a result of a change in previous estimates in 2016.
Proved Reserves Sensitivity by Price Scenario
The SEC disclosure rules allow for optional reserves sensitivity analysis, such as the sensitivity that oil and natural gas reserves have to price fluctuations. We have chosen to compare our proved reserves from the 2016 SEC case to two alternate pricing cases. These sensitivity scenarios were not audited by a third party. In these sensitivity scenarios, all factors other than the commodity price assumption have been held constant with the SEC case, including the number of proved undeveloped locations, drill schedules and operating costs assumptions. These sensitivities are only meant to demonstrate the impact that changing commodity prices may have on estimated proved reserves and PV-10 and there is no assurance these outcomes will be realized. The table below shows our proved reserves utilizing the 2016 SEC case compared with two alternate price scenarios.
_________________
(1)
Represents reserves based on pricing prescribed by the SEC. The unescalated twelve month arithmetic average of the first day of the month posted prices were adjusted for transportation and quality differentials to arrive at prices of $35.24 per Bbl for oil and $1.67 per Mcf for natural gas. Production costs were held constant for the life of the wells.
(2)
Prices based on $55.00 per Bbl for oil and $3.00 per MMbtu for natural gas, which were then adjusted for transportation and quality differentials to arrive at prices of $47.49 per Bbl for oil and $2.01 per Mcf for natural gas. Production costs and the future development drilling program were both held constant with the SEC case.
(3)
Prices based on $60.00 per Bbl for oil and $3.25 per MMbtu for natural gas, which were then adjusted for transportation and quality differentials to arrive at prices of $52.49 per Bbl for oil and $2.18 per Mcf for natural gas. Production costs and the future development drilling program were both held constant with the SEC case.
The following table provides the estimated pre-tax PV10% value as of December 31, 2016, of our proved reserves under the SEC case and the two alternate price cases, and also reconciles these amounts to the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows. Pre-tax PV10% value may be considered a non-GAAP financial measure. See “Reconciliation of PV-10 to Standardized Measure” above.
_____________
(1)
Represents reserves based on pricing prescribed by the SEC. The unescalated twelve month arithmetic average of the first day of the month posted prices were adjusted for transportation and quality differentials to arrive at prices of $35.24 per Bbl for oil and $1.67 per Mcf for natural gas. Production costs were held constant for the life of the wells.
(2)
Prices based on $55.00 per Bbl for oil and $3.00 per MMbtu for natural gas, which were then adjusted for transportation and quality differentials to arrive at prices of $47.49 per Bbl for oil and $2.01 per Mcf for natural gas. Production costs and the future development drilling program were both held constant with the SEC case.
(3)
Prices based on $60.00 per Bbl for oil and $3.25 per MMbtu for natural gas, which were then adjusted for transportation and quality differentials to arrive at prices of $52.49 per Bbl for oil and $2.18 per Mcf for natural gas. Production costs and the future development drilling program were both held constant with the SEC case.
(4)
The expected tax benefits to be realized from utilization of the net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards are used in the computation of future income tax cash flows. As a result of available net operating loss carryforwards and the remaining tax basis of our assets at December 31, 2016, our future income taxes were significantly reduced.
Independent Petroleum Engineers
We have utilized Ryder Scott Company, LP (“Ryder Scott”), an independent reservoir engineering firm, as our third-party engineering firm. The selection of Ryder Scott is approved by our Audit Committee. Ryder Scott is one of the largest reservoir-evaluation consulting firms and evaluates oil and natural gas properties and independently certifies petroleum reserves quantities for various clients throughout the United States and internationally. Ryder Scott has substantial experience calculating the reserves of various other companies with operations targeting the Bakken and Three Forks formations and, as such, we believe Ryder Scott has sufficient experience to appropriately determine our reserves. Ryder Scott utilizes proprietary technology, systems and data to calculate our reserves commensurate with this experience. The reports of our estimated proved reserves in their entirety are based on the information we provide to them. Ryder Scott is a Texas Registered Engineering Firm (F-1580). Our primary contact at Ryder Scott is James L. Baird, Managing Senior Vice President. Mr. Baird is a State of Colorado Licensed Professional Engineer (License #41521).
In accordance with applicable requirements of the SEC, estimates of our net proved reserves and future net revenues are made using average prices at the beginning of each month in the 12-month period prior to the date of such reserve estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties (except to the extent a contract specifically provides for escalation).
The reserves set forth in the Ryder Scott report for the properties are estimated by performance methods or analogy. In general, reserves attributable to producing wells and/or reservoirs are estimated by performance methods such as decline curve analysis which utilizes extrapolations of historical production data. Reserves attributable to non-producing and undeveloped reserves included in our report are estimated by analogy. The estimates of the reserves, future production, and income attributable to properties are prepared using the economic software package Aries for Windows, a copyrighted program of Halliburton.
To estimate economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and related future net cash flows, we consider many factors and assumptions including, but not limited to, the use of reservoir parameters derived from geological, geophysical and engineering data which cannot be measured directly, economic criteria based on current costs and SEC pricing requirements, and forecasts of future of production rates. Under the SEC regulations 210.4-10(a)(22)(v) and (26), proved reserves must be demonstrated to be economically producible based on existing economic conditions including the prices and costs at which economic producibility from a reservoir is to be determined as of the effective date of the report. With respect to the property interests we own, production and well tests from examined wells, normal direct costs of operating the wells or leases, other costs such as transportation and/or processing fees, production taxes, recompletion and development costs and product prices are based on the SEC regulations, geological maps, well logs, core analyses, and pressure measurements.
The reserve data set forth in the Ryder Scott report represents only estimates, and should not be construed as being exact quantities. They may or may not be actually recovered, and if recovered, the actual revenues and costs could be more or less than the estimated amounts. Moreover, estimates of reserves may increase or decrease as a result of future operations.
Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values, including many factors beyond our control. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geologic interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by us, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and other factors. The revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered and are highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. Our estimated net proved reserves, included in our SEC filings, have not been filed with or included in reports to any other federal agency. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors - Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.”
Internal Controls Over Reserves Estimation Process
We utilize Ryder Scott, a third-party reservoir engineering firm, as our independent reserves evaluator for 100% of our reserves base. In addition, we employ one internal reserve engineer who is responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserves estimates. Our internal reserve engineer has a B.S. in petroleum engineering from Montana Tech and has over ten years of oil and gas experience on the reservoir side. Our engineer has experience working for large independent and financial firms on projects and acquisitions, both domestic and international.
Our technical team meets with our independent third-party engineering firm to review properties and discuss evaluation methods and assumptions used in the proved reserves estimates, in accordance with our prescribed internal control procedures. Our internal controls over the reserves estimation process include verification of input data into our reserves evaluation software as well as management review, such as, but not limited to the following:
•
Comparison of historical expenses from the lease operating statements and workover authorizations for expenditure to the operating costs input in our reserves database;
•
Review of working interests and net revenue interests in our reserves database against our well ownership system;
•
Review of historical realized prices and differentials from index prices as compared to the differentials used in our reserves database;
•
Review of updated capital costs prepared by our operations team;
•
Review of internal reserve estimates by well and by area by our internal reservoir engineer;
•
Discussion of material reserve variances among our internal reservoir engineer and our executive management; and
•
Review of a preliminary copy of the reserve report by executive management.
Production, Price and Production Expense History
The price that we receive for the oil and natural gas we produce is largely a function of market supply and demand. Demand is impacted by general economic conditions, weather and other seasonal conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms. Over or under supply of oil or natural gas can result in substantial price volatility. Oil supply in the United States has grown dramatically over the past few years, and the supply of oil could impact oil prices in the United States if the supply outstrips domestic demand. Historically, commodity prices have been volatile, and we expect that volatility to continue in the future. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices, like we have experienced since late 2014, or poor drilling results could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, quantities of oil and natural gas reserves that may be economically produced and our ability to access capital markets.
The following table sets forth information regarding our oil and natural gas production, realized prices and production costs for the periods indicated. For additional information on price calculations, please see information set forth in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
Drilling and Development Activity
The following table sets forth the number of gross and net productive and non-productive wells drilled in the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. The number of wells drilled refers to the number of wells completed at any time during the fiscal year, regardless of when drilling was initiated. We have classified all wells drilled to-date targeting the Bakken and Three Forks formations as development wells.
The following table summarizes our cumulative gross and net productive oil wells by state at each of December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.
Leasehold Properties
As of December 31, 2016, our principal assets included approximately 155,016 net acres located in the northern region of the United States. The following table summarizes our estimated gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage by state at December 31, 2016.
As of December 31, 2016, approximately 79% of our total acreage was developed. All of our proved reserves are located in North Dakota and Montana.
Recent Acquisitions
In 2016 and 2015, we acquired leasehold interests covering an aggregate of approximately 3,399 and 4,355 net acres in our key prospect areas, for an average cost of $1,515 and $1,314 per net acre, respectively.
In 2016, the Company entered into a definitive purchase and sale agreement with a third party, for their interests in 144 gross (3.8 net) producing oil and gas wells and associated acreage.
We generally assess acreage subject to near-term drilling activities on a lease-by-lease basis because we believe each lease’s contribution to a subject spacing unit is best assessed on that basis if development timing is sufficiently clear. Consistent with that approach, the majority of our acreage acquisitions involve properties that are “hand-picked” by us on a lease-by-lease basis for their contribution to a well expected to be spud in the near future, and the subject leases are then aggregated to complete one single closing with the transferor. As such, we generally view each acreage assignment from brokers, landmen and other parties as involving several separate acquisitions combined into one closing with the common transferor for convenience. However, in certain instances an acquisition may involve a larger number of leases presented by the transferors as a single package without negotiation on a lease-by-lease basis. In those instances, we still review each lease on a lease-by-lease basis to ensure that the package as a whole meets our acquisition criteria and drilling expectations.
Acreage Expirations
As a non-operator, we are subject to lease expirations if an operator does not commence the development of operations within the agreed terms of our leases. All of our leases for undeveloped acreage summarized in the table below will expire at the end of their respective primary terms, unless we renew the existing leases, establish commercial production from the acreage or some other “savings clause” is exercised. In addition, our leases typically provide that the lease does not expire at the end of the primary term if drilling operations have been commenced. While we generally expect to establish production from most of our acreage prior to expiration of the applicable lease terms, there can be no guarantee we can do so. The approximate expiration of our net acres which are subject to expire between 2017 and 2021 and thereafter, are set forth below:
During 2016, we had leases expire in Montana (9,265 net acres) and North Dakota (2,915 net acres) covering approximately 12,180 net acres, all of which was prospective for the Bakken and Three Forks Formations. The 2016 lease expirations carried a cost of $13.4 million. We believe that the expired acreage was not material to our capital deployed in these prospects.
Unproved Properties
All properties that are not classified as proved properties are considered unproved properties and, thus, the costs associated with such properties are not subject to depletion. Once a property is classified as proved, all associated acreage and drilling costs are subject to depletion.
We assess all items classified as unproved property on an annual basis, or if certain circumstances exist, more frequently, for possible impairment or reduction in value. The assessment includes consideration of the following factors, among others: intent to drill, remaining lease term, geological and geophysical evaluations, drilling results and activity, the assignment of proved reserves, and the economic viability of development if proved reserves are assigned. During any period in which these factors indicate an impairment, the cumulative drilling costs incurred to date for such property and all or a portion of the associated leasehold costs are transferred to the full cost pool and are then subject to depletion and amortization. For the years ended
December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, we included $7.0 million, $37.6 million and $21.4 million, respectively, related to expiring leases within costs subject to the depletion calculation.
We historically have acquired our properties by purchasing individual or small groups of leases directly from mineral owners or from landmen or lease brokers, which leases generally have not been subject to specified drilling projects, and by purchasing lease packages in identified project areas controlled by specific operators. We generally participate in drilling activities on a proportionate basis by electing whether to participate in each well on a well-by-well basis at the time wells are proposed for drilling.
We believe that the majority of our unproved costs will become subject to depletion within the next five years by proving up reserves relating to its acreage through exploration and development activities, by impairing the acreage that will expire before we can explore or develop it further or by determining that further exploration and development activity will not occur. The timing by which all other properties will become subject to depletion will be dependent upon the timing of future drilling activities and delineation of our reserves.
Impairment and Depletion of Oil and Natural Gas Properties
As a result of currently prevailing low commodity prices and their effect on the proved reserve values of properties in 2016 and 2015, we recorded a non-cash ceiling test impairment of $237.0 million and $1.2 billion in 2016 and 2015, respectively. There was no non-cash ceiling test impairment recorded in 2014. The impairment charge affected our reported net income but did not reduce our cash flow.
Depending on future commodity price levels, the trailing 12-month average price used in the ceiling calculation could decline and may cause additional future write downs of our oil and natural gas properties. Continued write downs of oil and natural gas properties are expected to occur until such time as commodity prices have stabilized or recovered long enough to stabilize or increase the trailing 12-month average price used in the ceiling calculation. In addition to commodity prices, our production rates, levels of proved reserves, future development costs, transfers of unevaluated properties and other factors will determine our actual ceiling test calculation and impairment analyses in future periods. At December 31, 2016, if the trailing 12-month average prices used in the impairment calculation had been 10% and 20% lower, our impairment expense would have increased by $78.4 million and $160.2 million, respectively.
Our depletion expense is driven by many factors including certain exploration costs involved in the development of producing reserves, production levels and estimates of proved reserve quantities and future developmental costs. The following table presents our depletion expenses during 2016, 2015 and 2014.
Research and Development
We do not anticipate performing any significant research and development under our plan of operation.
Delivery Commitments
We do not currently have any delivery commitments for product obtained from our wells.
Item 3.