Item 2. Properties
Estimated Net Proved Reserves
The table below summarizes our estimated net proved reserves at December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 based on reports prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“Cawley”), our independent reserve engineers for the year ending December 31, 2018 and Ryder Scott, LP (“Ryder Scott”), our former independent reserve engineers for the years ending December 31, 2017 and 2016. In preparing its reports, Cawley and Ryder Scott, respectively, evaluated properties representing all of our proved reserves at December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) applicable to companies involved in oil and natural gas producing activities. Our estimated net proved reserves in the table below do not include probable or possible reserves and do not in any way include or reflect our commodity derivatives.
___________________
(1) The table above values oil and natural gas reserve quantities as of December 31, 2018 assuming constant realized prices of $61.23 per barrel of oil and $4.50 per Mcf of natural gas. Under SEC guidelines, these prices represent the average prices per barrel of oil and per Mcf of natural gas at the beginning of each month in the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, after adjustment to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials.
(2) The table above values oil and natural gas reserve quantities as of December 31, 2017 assuming constant realized prices of $45.90 per barrel of oil and $3.34 per Mcf of natural gas. Under SEC guidelines, these prices represent the average prices per barrel of oil and per Mcf of natural gas at the beginning of each month in the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, after adjustment to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials.
(3) The table above values oil and natural gas reserve quantities as of December 31, 2016 assuming constant realized prices of $35.24 per barrel of oil and $1.67 per Mcf of natural gas. Under SEC guidelines, these prices represent the average prices per barrel of oil and per Mcf of natural gas at the beginning of each month in the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, after adjustment to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials.
Estimated net proved reserves at December 31, 2018 were 135,484 MBoe, a 79% increase from estimated net proved reserves of 75,832 MBoe at December 31, 2017. The increase in 2018 total proved reserves was primarily due to the impact of our 2018 acquisitions, as well as higher commodity prices and higher activity levels in 2018 as compared to 2017, which also increased both the number of undeveloped drilling locations and the expected productive life of economic locations reflected in our 2018 proved reserve estimates. Higher commodity prices and increased development activity in 2018 led to an increase in our capital spending. As a result of the higher activity levels and our 2018 acquisitions, the number of proved undeveloped wells included in the reserves was increased from 52.1 net wells in 2017 to 97.9 net wells in 2018.
Estimated net proved reserves at December 31, 2017 were 75,832 MBoe, a 40% increase from estimated net proved reserves of 54,081 MBoe at December 31, 2016. The increase in 2017 total proved reserves was primarily due to the impact of higher commodity prices in 2017 as compared to 2016, which also increased both the number of undeveloped drilling locations and the expected productive life of economic locations reflected in our 2017 proved reserve estimates. Higher commodity prices and development activity in 2017 led to an increase in our capital spending. As a result of the higher activity levels, the number of proved undeveloped wells included in the reserves was increased from 32.6 net wells in 2016 to 52.1 net wells in 2017.
The following table sets forth summary information by reserve category with respect to estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2018:
_____ ___________
(1) The SEC Pricing Proved Reserves table above values oil and natural gas reserve quantities and related discounted future net cash flows as of December 31, 2018 based on average prices of $65.56 per barrel of oil and $3.10 per MMbtu of natural gas. Under SEC guidelines, these prices represent the average prices per barrel of oil and per MMbtu of natural gas at the beginning of each month in the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period. The average resulting price used as of December 31, 2018, after adjustment to reflect applicable transportation and quality differentials, was $61.23 per barrel of oil and $4.50 per Mcf of natural gas.
(2) Boe are computed based on a conversion ratio of one Boe for each barrel of oil and one Boe for every 6,000 cubic feet (i.e., 6 Mcf) of natural gas.
(3) Pre-tax PV10%, or “PV-10,” may be considered a non-GAAP financial measure as defined by the SEC and is derived from the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, which is the most directly comparable GAAP measure. See “Reconciliation of PV-10 to Standardized Measure” below.
The table above assumes prices and costs discounted using an annual discount rate of 10% without future escalation, without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and depreciation, depletion and amortization, or federal income taxes. The information in the table above does not give any effect to or reflect our commodity derivatives.
Reconciliation of PV-10 to Standardized Measure
PV-10 is derived from the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows, which is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure for proved reserves calculated using SEC pricing. PV-10 is a computation of the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows on a pre-tax basis. PV-10 is equal to the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows at the applicable date, before deducting future income taxes, discounted at 10 percent. We believe that the presentation of PV-10 is relevant and useful to investors because it presents the discounted future net cash flows attributable to our estimated net proved reserves prior to taking into account future corporate income taxes, and it is a useful measure for evaluating the relative monetary significance of our oil and natural gas properties. Further, investors may utilize the measure as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our reserves to other companies. Moreover, GAAP does not provide a measure of estimated future net cash flows for reserves other than proved reserves or for reserves calculated using prices other than SEC prices. We use this measure when assessing the potential return on investment related to our oil and natural gas properties. PV-10, however, is not a substitute for the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows. Our PV-10 measure and the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows do not purport to represent the fair value of our oil and natural gas reserves.
The following table reconciles the pre-tax PV10% value of our SEC Pricing Proved Reserves as of December 31, 2018 to the Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows.
____________
(1) The expected tax benefits to be realized from utilization of the net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards are used in the computation of future income tax cash flows. As a result of available net operating loss carryforwards and the remaining tax basis of our assets at December 31, 2018, our future income taxes were significantly reduced.
Uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many risk factors beyond our control. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating subsurface accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. As a result, estimates of proved reserves may vary depending upon the engineer estimating the reserves. Further, our actual realized price for our oil and natural gas is not likely to average the pricing parameters used to calculate our proved reserves. As such, the oil and natural gas quantities and the value of those commodities ultimately recovered from our properties will vary from reserve estimates.
Additional discussion of our proved reserves is set forth under the heading “Supplemental Oil and Gas Information - Unaudited” to our financial statements included later in this report.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
At December 31, 2018, we had approximately 59.3 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves as compared to 29.5 MMBoe at December 31, 2017. A reconciliation of the change in proved undeveloped reserves during 2018 is as follows:
During 2018, we significantly grew our asset base through acquisitions. In addition, commodity prices for crude oil, NGL and natural gas increased from the prior year, which resulted in higher development capital spending during 2018. We expect to maintain similar levels of development capital spending in 2019. As a result, we have increased the proportion of our reserves that have historically been categorized as PUD. This is driven by the current economic price environment, coupled with our improved liquidity, which increases the number of PUD locations that we have reasonable certainty to believe will be developed during the five-year time horizon.
Our future development drilling program includes the drilling of approximately 97.9 proven undeveloped net wells before the end of 2023 at an estimated cost of $736.3 million. Our development plan for drilling proved undeveloped wells calls for the drilling of 30.9 net wells during 2019 (includes 9.1 net wells drilled at December 31, 2018, but classified as proved undeveloped due to Cawley's internal guidelines which require greater than 50% of total costs to be incurred to be classified as developed), 20.3 net wells during 2020, 18.0 net wells during 2021, 15.6 net wells during 2022 and 13.1 net wells during 2023 for a total of 97.9 net wells. We expect that our proved undeveloped reserves will continue to be converted to proved developed producing reserves as additional wells are drilled including our acreage. All locations comprising our remaining proved undeveloped reserves are forecast to be drilled within five years from initially being recorded in accordance with our development plan.
At December 31, 2018, the PV-10 value of our proved undeveloped reserves amounted to 30% of the PV-10 value of our total proved reserves. Although our 2018 producing property additions exceeded our 5-year average development plan, there are numerous uncertainties. The development of these reserves is dependent upon a number of factors which include, but are not limited to: financial targets such as drilling within cash flow or reducing debt, drilling of obligatory wells, satisfactory rates of return on proposed drilling projects, and the levels of drilling activities by operators in areas where we hold leasehold interests. During 2018, we increased our development capital spending by 87% compared to 2017 in response to the improving commodity price environment. If a lower commodity price environment reoccurs, we may seek to reduce our development spending. While lower commodity prices could reduce our future borrowing capacity (we had $2.4 million of cash and committed borrowing availability of $285.0 million under our revolving credit facility at December 31, 2018), with 60% of the PV-10 value of our total proved reserves supported by producing wells, we believe we will have sufficient cash flows and adequate liquidity to complete our development plan.
At December 31, 2018, we had spent a total of $88.3 million related to the development of proved undeveloped reserves, which resulted in the conversion of 8.2 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2017 to proved developed reserves as of December 31, 2018. Proved developed property additions in 2018 also included 6.2 MMBoe from the conversion of previously undeveloped locations that were not booked in our December 31, 2017 proved undeveloped reserves (the related development costs incurred at December 31, 2018 were $84.4 million). Additionally, our proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2018 included 5.7 MMBoe for net wells that had commenced drilling activities but remained classified as undeveloped reserves due to Cawley's internal guidelines which require greater than 50% of the total costs to have been incurred in order to be classified as proved developed (the related development costs incurred at December 31, 2018 were $28.3 million).
In 2018, we also added 26.4 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves primarily in our North Dakota areas of operations as a result of higher commodity prices and increased well performance and development activity in the Williston Basin. The SEC-prescribed commodity prices (after adjustment for transportation, quality and basis differentials) were $15.33 higher per barrel of oil and $1.16 higher per Mcf of natural gas at year-end 2018 as compared to year-end 2017. Additionally, we had positive performance revisions of 3.1 MMBoe due to improved well performance from enhanced completion techniques. Our acquisitions of oil and natural gas properties in 2018 resulted in 10.3 MMBoe of additional proved undeveloped reserves. We also removed 1.8 MMBoe of proved undeveloped reserves due to the SEC-prescribed 5-year rule.
Proved Reserves Sensitivity by Price Scenario
The SEC disclosure rules allow for optional reserves sensitivity analysis, such as the sensitivity that oil and natural gas reserves have to price fluctuations. We have chosen to compare our proved reserves from the 2018 SEC case to one alternate pricing case, which uses a flat pricing deck of $55.00 per Bbl for oil and $2.70 per MMbtu for natural gas (the “$55 Flat Case”). The sensitivity scenario was not audited by a third party. In the sensitivity scenario, all factors other than the commodity price assumptions have been held constant with the SEC case, including the number of proved undeveloped locations, drill schedules and operating costs assumptions. This sensitivity is only meant to demonstrate the impact that changing commodity prices may have on estimated proved reserves and PV-10 and there is no assurance this outcome will be realized. The table below shows our proved reserves utilizing the 2018 SEC case compared with the $55 Flat Case.
_________________
(1) Represents reserves based on pricing prescribed by the SEC. The unescalated twelve month arithmetic average of the first day of the month posted prices were adjusted for transportation and quality differentials to arrive at prices of $61.23 per Bbl for oil and $4.50 per Mcf for natural gas. Production costs were held constant for the life of the wells.
(2) Prices based on $55.00 per Bbl for oil and $2.70 per MMbtu for natural gas, which were then adjusted for transportation and quality differentials to arrive at prices of $50.66 per Bbl for oil and $3.92 per Mcf for natural gas. Production costs and the future development drilling program were both held constant with the SEC case.
(3) Pre-tax PV10%, or PV-10, may be considered a non-GAAP financial measure. See “Reconciliation of PV-10 to Standardized Measure” above for a reconciliation of the PV-10 of our SEC Case proved reserves to the Standardized Measure. GAAP does not prescribe a corresponding measure for PV-10 of proved reserves based on other than SEC prices. As a result, it is not practicable for us to reconcile the PV-10 of our proved reserves based on the $55 Flat Case.
Independent Petroleum Engineers
We have utilized Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“Cawley”), an independent reserve engineering firm, as our third-party engineering firm. The selection of Cawley was approved by our Audit Committee. Cawley is a reservoir-evaluation consulting firm who evaluates oil and natural gas properties and independently certifies petroleum reserves quantities for various clients throughout the United States. Cawley has substantial experience calculating the reserves of various other companies with operations targeting the Bakken and Three Forks formations and, as such, we believe Cawley has sufficient experience to appropriately determine our reserves. Cawley utilizes proprietary technology, systems and data to calculate our reserves commensurate with this experience. The reports of our estimated proved reserves in their entirety are based on the information we provide to them. Cawley is a Texas Registered Engineering Firm (F-693). Our primary contact at Cawley is Todd Brooker, President. Mr. Brooker is a State of Texas Licensed Professional Engineer (License #83462). He is also a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
In accordance with applicable requirements of the SEC, estimates of our net proved reserves and future net revenues are made using average prices at the beginning of each month in the 12-month period prior to the date of such reserve estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties (except to the extent a contract specifically provides for escalation).
The reserves set forth in the Cawley report for the properties are estimated by performance methods or analogy. In general, reserves attributable to producing wells and/or reservoirs are estimated by performance methods such as decline curve analysis which utilizes extrapolations of historical production data. Reserves attributable to non-producing and undeveloped reserves included in our report are estimated by analogy. The estimates of the reserves, future production, and income attributable to properties are prepared using the economic software package Aries for Windows, a copyrighted program of Halliburton.
To estimate economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and related future net cash flows, we consider many factors and assumptions including, but not limited to, the use of reservoir parameters derived from geological, geophysical and engineering data which cannot be measured directly, economic criteria based on current costs and SEC pricing requirements, and forecasts of future production rates. Under the SEC regulations 210.4-10(a)(22)(v) and (26), proved reserves must be demonstrated to be economically producible based on existing economic conditions including the prices and costs at which economic productivity from a reservoir is to be determined as of the effective date of the report. With respect to the property interests we own, production and well tests from examined wells, normal direct costs of operating the wells or leases, other costs such as transportation and/or processing fees, production taxes, recompletion and development costs and product prices are based on the SEC regulations, geological maps, well logs, core analyses, and pressure measurements.
The reserve data set forth in the Cawley report represents only estimates, and should not be construed as being exact quantities. They may or may not be actually recovered, and if recovered, the actual revenues and costs could be more or less than the estimated amounts. Moreover, estimates of reserves may increase or decrease as a result of future operations.
Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values, including many factors beyond our control. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geologic interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by us, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and other factors. The revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered and are highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are
based. Our estimated net proved reserves, included in our SEC filings, have not been filed with or included in reports to any other federal agency. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors - Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.”
Internal Controls Over Reserves Estimation Process
We utilize a third-party reservoir engineering firm, as our independent reserves evaluator for 100% of our reserves base. In addition, we employ an internal reserve engineering department which is led by our Vice President of Engineering, who is responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserves estimates. Our senior internal reserve engineer has a B.S. in petroleum engineering from Montana Tech, has over thirteen years of oil and gas experience on the reservoir side, and has experience working for large independent and financial firms on projects and acquisitions.
Our technical team meets with our independent third-party engineering firm to review properties and discuss evaluation methods and assumptions used in the proved reserves estimates, in accordance with our prescribed internal control procedures. Our internal controls over the reserves estimation process include verification of input data into our reserves evaluation software as well as management review, such as, but not limited to the following:
•Comparison of historical expenses from the lease operating statements and workover authorizations for expenditure to the operating costs input in our reserves database;
•Review of working interests and net revenue interests in our reserves database against our well ownership system;
•Review of historical realized prices and differentials from index prices as compared to the differentials used in our reserves database;
•Review of updated capital costs prepared by our operations team;
•Review of internal reserve estimates by well and by area by our internal reservoir engineer;
•Discussion of material reserve variances among our internal reservoir engineer and our executive management; and
•Review of a preliminary copy of the reserve report by executive management.
Production, Price and Production Expense History
The price that we receive for the oil and natural gas we produce is largely a function of market supply and demand. Demand is impacted by general economic conditions, weather and other seasonal conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms. Over or under supply of oil or natural gas can result in substantial price volatility. Oil supply in the United States has grown dramatically over the past few years, and the supply of oil could impact oil prices in the United States if the supply outstrips domestic demand. Historically, commodity prices have been volatile, and we expect that volatility to continue in the future. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices or poor drilling results could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, quantities of oil and natural gas reserves that may be economically produced and our ability to access capital markets.
The following table sets forth information regarding our oil and natural gas production, realized prices and production costs for the periods indicated. For additional information on price calculations, please see information set forth in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
Drilling and Development Activity
The following table sets forth the number of gross and net productive and non-productive wells drilled in the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. The number of wells drilled refers to the number of wells completed at any time during the fiscal year, regardless of when drilling was initiated. We have classified all wells drilled to-date targeting the Bakken and Three Forks formations as development wells.
______________
(1) 2018 totals do not include an additional 65.8 net wells from acquisitions which were already producing when acquired.
The following table summarizes our cumulative gross and net productive oil wells by state at each of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.
As of December 31, 2018, we had an additional 412 gross (22.8 net) wells in process, meaning wells that have been spud and are in the process of drilling, completing or waiting on completion.
Leasehold Properties
As of December 31, 2018, our principal assets included approximately 157,083 net acres located in the northern region of the United States. The following table summarizes our estimated gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage by state at December 31, 2018.
As of December 31, 2018, approximately 92% of our total acreage was developed. All of our proved reserves are located in North Dakota and Montana.
Recent Acquisitions
See “Item 1. Business - Overview” regarding our W Energy, Pivotal, and Salt Creek Acquisitions completed in 2018. In addition to those acquisitions, during 2018 and 2017, we acquired leasehold interests covering an aggregate of approximately 10,932 and 1,934 net acres, respectively, in our key prospect areas.
We generally assess acreage subject to near-term drilling activities on a lease-by-lease basis because we believe each lease’s contribution to a subject spacing unit is best assessed on that basis if development timing is sufficiently clear. Consistent with that approach, the majority of our acreage acquisitions involve properties that are selected by us on a lease-by-lease basis for their participation in a well expected to be spud in the near future, and the subject leases are then aggregated to complete one single closing with the transferor. As such, we generally view each acreage assignment from brokers, landmen and other parties as involving several separate acquisitions combined into one closing with the common transferor for convenience. However, in certain instances an acquisition may involve a larger number of leases presented by the transferors as a single package without negotiation on a lease-by-lease basis. In those instances, we still review each lease on a lease-by-lease basis to ensure that the package as a whole meets our acquisition criteria and drilling expectations.
Acreage Expirations
As a non-operator, we are subject to lease expirations if an operator does not commence the development of operations within the agreed terms of our leases. All of our leases for undeveloped acreage summarized in the table below will expire at the end of their respective primary terms, unless we renew the existing leases, establish commercial production from the acreage or some other “savings clause” is exercised. In addition, our leases typically provide that the lease does not expire at the end of the primary term if drilling operations have been commenced. While we generally expect to establish production from most of our acreage prior to expiration of the applicable lease terms, there can be no guarantee we can do so. The approximate expiration of our net acres which are subject to expire between 2019 and 2023 and thereafter, are set forth below:
During 2018, we had leases expire in Montana (620 net acres) and North Dakota (8,862 net acres) covering approximately 9,482 net acres, all of which was prospective for the Bakken and Three Forks Formations. The 2018 lease expirations carried a cost of $9.4 million. We believe that the expired acreage was not material to our capital deployed in these prospects.
Unproved Properties
All properties that are not classified as proved properties are considered unproved properties and, thus, the costs associated with such properties are not subject to depletion. Once a property is classified as proved, all associated acreage and drilling costs are subject to depletion.
We assess all items classified as unproved property on an annual basis, or if certain circumstances exist, more frequently, for possible impairment or reduction in value. The assessment includes consideration of the following factors, among others: intent to drill, remaining lease term, geological and geophysical evaluations, drilling results and activity, the assignment of proved reserves, and the economic viability of development if proved reserves are assigned. During any period in which these factors indicate an impairment, the cumulative drilling costs incurred to date for such property and all or a portion of the associated leasehold costs are transferred to the full cost pool and are then subject to depletion and amortization. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, we included $0.3 million, $0.6 million and $7.0 million, respectively, related to expiring leases within costs subject to the depletion calculation. These amounts represent lease expiration costs that were not previously included within costs subject to the depletion calculation during a prior year.
We historically have acquired our properties by purchasing individual or small groups of leases directly from mineral owners or from landmen or lease brokers, which leases generally have not been subject to specified drilling projects, and by purchasing lease packages in identified project areas controlled by specific operators. We generally participate in drilling activities on a proportionate basis by electing whether to participate in each well on a well-by-well basis at the time wells are proposed for drilling.
We believe that the majority of our unproved costs will become subject to depletion within the next five years by proving up reserves relating to its acreage through exploration and development activities, by impairing the acreage that will expire before we can explore or develop it further or by determining that further exploration and development activity will not occur. The timing by which all other properties will become subject to depletion will be dependent upon the timing of future drilling activities and delineation of our reserves.
Impairment and Depletion of Oil and Natural Gas Properties
As a result of low commodity prices and their effect on the proved reserve values of properties 2016, we recorded a non-cash ceiling test impairment of $237.0 million in 2016. Given improving commodity prices, no impairments were recorded during 2018 or 2017. The impairment charges affected our reported net income but did not reduce our cash flow.
Depending on future commodity price levels, the trailing 12-month average price used in the ceiling calculation could decline and may cause additional future write downs of our oil and natural gas properties. In addition to commodity prices, our production rates, levels of proved reserves, future development costs, transfers of unevaluated properties and other factors will determine our actual ceiling test calculation and impairment analyses in future periods.
Our depletion expense is driven by many factors including certain exploration costs involved in the development of producing reserves, production levels and estimates of proved reserve quantities and future developmental costs. The following table presents our depletion expenses during 2018, 2017 and 2016.
Research and Development
We do not anticipate performing any significant research and development under our plan of operation.
Delivery Commitments
We do not currently have any delivery commitments for product obtained from our wells.
Item 3.