ITEM 2. Properties
Office Facilities
Canaan currently leases for its corporate headquarters 24,652 square feet on the 10/th/ floor in One Leadership Square located in the downtown area of Oklahoma City. These facilities are adequate for our current operations.
The Company also leased 1,440 square feet of temporary office space on the third floor in One Leadership Square from October 1, 2001, until February 28, 2002.
Oil and Natural Gas Properties
General
The Company's properties are primarily in the Mid-Continent area, with a preference for natural gas producing properties. Within the Mid-Continent area, the core areas are the Deep Anadarko Basin, the Anadarko Shelf, the Arkoma Basin, and South-Central Oklahoma. Development and exploitation of acreage acquired through a joint venture in the South Texas onshore region, as discussed below, are expected to result in another core area for the Company. The remaining properties are located in various states including Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico, Nebraska, Texas and Wyoming. As of December 31, 2001, the Company owned working interests in 949 gross wells, 190 of which it operates. The Company also owned interests in 59 wells in which the Company has a revenue interest other than as a working interest owner. As of December 31, 2001, the Company owned working interests in 270 gross (69.2 net) producing oil wells and 662 (125.1 net) producing natural gas wells, as well as 8 gross (2.4 net) oil and 9 gross (3.1 net) natural gas wells that were shut-in. A well is categorized under state reporting regulations as an oil well or a natural gas well based upon the ratio of natural gas to oil production when it first commenced production, and such designation may not be indicative of current production.
Net average daily production during 2001 was 495 Bbls of oil and 18 MMcf of natural gas, or 21 MMcfe of equivalent production. Canaan participated in the drilling of 58 gross development oil and natural gas wells, of which 56, or 97%, were successfully completed during 2001. The Company has allocated $10 million for its 2002 drilling program, subject to revision based upon results, oil and natural gas prices and other factors. Approximately $4 million of this total has been allocated to drilling in South Texas, a new core area for the Company, and $6 million has been allocated to the historically successful Mid-Continent area. During 2002, the Company expects to participate in the drilling of about 22 gross wells (7.0 net) wells. The wells in the Mid-Continent area will be a combination of proved undeveloped locations and higher risk wells in existing field areas. The wells outside of the Mid-Continent area will be higher risk wells identified using 3-D seismic data in and around existing field areas.
Information by Area
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the four Mid-Continent core areas and the other states as of December 31, 2001:
- --------
(1) Present value of estimated future net cash flows before income taxes discounted at 10%. The Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows was $49,709,000. (2) Current Daily Net Production is based on average daily production for the month of January 2002.
The Mid-Continent core areas' proved reserves of 92.2 Bcfe represented 97% of the Company's total proved reserves as of December 31, 2001. Production was 94% of the Company's average daily net production for January 2002. All of the proved undeveloped drilling locations are in the Mid-Continent area.
The Deep Anadarko Basin properties had proved reserves of 51.6 Bcfe, representing 54% of the Company's total proved reserves as of December 31, 2001. Production was 42% of the Company's average daily net production for January 2002. The Company's 55 proved undeveloped locations in this area represent 81% of the Company's proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2001. Production in this area is primarily natural gas and condensate from Pennsylvanian age reservoirs that include the Red Fork, Skinner, Atoka and Morrow sandstones at depths of 10,000 to 14,000 feet. This area has had extensive increased density drilling activity and the Company has identified numerous additional increased density drilling locations. The majority of the 2002 planned drilling activity in the Mid-Continent region will be in this area.
The Arkoma Basin properties in eastern Oklahoma and western Arkansas had proved reserves of 16.6 Bcfe, representing 18% of the Company's total proved reserves as of December 31, 2001. Production from this area was 21% of the Company's average daily net production for January 2002. The three proved undeveloped locations in this area represent 11% of the Company's proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2001. Production in this area is natural gas from numerous Pennsylvanian age sandstone reservoirs and the Devonian/ Silurian age Hunton reservoir at depths of 2,000 to 9,000 feet. The two primary fields in this area are the Company operated Massard Field in Arkansas and the non-operated Red Oak-Norris Field in Oklahoma. All currently identified proved undeveloped locations are in the Massard Field. For 2002, the Company plans to drill at least two wells in the Massard Field.
The Anadarko Shelf properties located in north central and northwestern Oklahoma had proved reserves of 11.8 Bcfe as of December 31, 2001. This represented 12% of the Company's total proved reserves as of December 31, 2001. Production from this area was 16% of the Company's average daily net production for January 2002. The properties in this area account for 113 of the 190 Company operated wells. Production in this area is natural gas and oil from a variety of reservoirs ranging from the Permian Chase Group down to the Devonian/Silurian Hunton Formation. Producing depths in the area are generally 3,000 to 9,000 feet.
The South-Central Oklahoma properties proved reserves of 12.2 Bcfe represented 13% of the Company's total proved reserves as of December 31, 2001. Production from this area was 15% of the Company's average daily net production for January 2002. The four proved undeveloped locations in this area represented 4% of the proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2001. Production in this area is natural gas and oil from numerous reservoirs ranging in age from Pennsylvanian to Ordovician. The Company plans to participate in the drilling of several wells in this area in 2002, most of which will be proposed by other operators.
During 2001, Canaan entered into a joint venture with a successful operator in the South Texas onshore region. The opportunities acquired through the joint venture included 90 miles of 3-D seismic data and technology currently being used to identify high impact drilling prospects with the ultimate goal of establishing another core area for the Company. The Company's reserves attributable to the South Texas onshore area, as in the Mid-Continent region, are primarily longer producing, natural gas reserves. The Company expects to begin participating in this new core area in mid-2002.
Acquisition Activity
In December 2001, the Company acquired from Vintage Petroleum, Inc. for $2.1 million, five operated, producing wells in Custer County, Oklahoma. This strategic Mid-Continent acquisition in our Deep Anadarko Basin area also includes the upside potential of two proved undeveloped and two nonproved locations. Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. ("NSAI"), independent reservoir engineers, estimated proved reserves of 3.0 Bcfe as of December 31, 2001 attributable to this acquisition reflecting an attractive acquisition price of $0.70 per Mcfe.
Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
The following table sets forth certain information on the total proved natural gas and oil reserves and the PV-10 of estimated future net revenues of total proved natural gas and oil reserves as of December 31, 2001 based on the report of NSAI. The calculations used by NSAI in preparation of such report were prepared using geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry and in accordance with SEC guidelines.
- --------
(1) Present value of estimated future net cash flows before income taxes discounted at 10%. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows was $49,709,000.
These reserve estimates were calculated by using methods prescribed by the SEC, including year-end prices of $2.58 per Mcf for natural gas and $18.48 per Bbl for oil.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve data included in this document represents
only estimates. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data, the precision of the engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers often vary. The estimates of reserves, future cash flows and present value are based on various assumptions, including those prescribed by the SEC, and are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from our estimates. Also, the use of a 10% discount factor for reporting purposes may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given actual interest rates and risks to which our business or the oil and natural gas industry in general are subject.
Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic conditions, including oil and natural gas prices in existence at the date of assessment. Our reserves and future cash flows may be subject to revisions, based upon changes in economic conditions, including oil and natural gas prices, as well as due to production results, results of future development, operating and development costs and other factors. Downward revisions of our reserves could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.
Canaan has not filed any reports with other federal agencies which contain an estimate of its net proved oil and natural gas reserves.
Cost Incurred and Drilling Results
The following table shows information regarding the costs incurred by Canaan from acquisition and development activities during the periods indicated.
Canaan has acquired or drilled or participated in the drilling of wells as set out in the table below for the periods indicated. Canaan has not participated in any exploratory drilling.
Present Activities
As of December 31, 2001, Canaan was involved in the drilling, testing or completing of four gross (0.6 net) development wells.
Acreage
The following table shows the developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas lease and mineral acreage as of December 31, 2001 owned by Canaan. Excluded is acreage in which an interest is limited to royalty, overriding royalty and other similar interests.
Productive Well Summary
The following table shows the ownership of Canaan in productive wells at December 31, 2001. Gross oil and natural gas wells include 11 wells with multiple completions. Wells with multiple completions are counted only once for purposes of the following table.
Title to Properties
Substantially all of Canaan's property interests are held pursuant to leases from third parties. Title to properties is subject to royalty, overriding royalty, carried, net profits, working and other similar interests and contractual arrangements customary in the oil and natural gas industry, liens incident to operating agreements, liens relating to amounts owed to the operator, liens for current taxes not yet due and other encumbrances. The Company believes that such burdens neither materially detract from the value of such properties nor from the respective interests therein, nor materially interfere with their use in the operation of the business. Substantially all of the Company's oil and natural gas properties are mortgaged to secure borrowings under the Company's bank credit facility. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Capital Expenditures, Capital Resources and Liquidity."
As is customary in the industry in the case of undeveloped properties, little investigation of record title is made at the time of acquisition (other than a preliminary review of local records). Investigations, including a title opinion of local counsel, are generally made prior to the consummation of an acquisition of a producing property and before commencement of drilling operations.
DEFINITIONS
When the following words are used in the text of this document, they have the following meaning:
"Average Sales Price" means total revenues from the sale of oil or natural gas or on a per Mcfe basis for the applicable period divided by the units of production for the applicable period.
"Bbl" means one stock tank barrel, or 42 U.S. gallons liquid volume, used in this document in reference to oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.
"Bcf" means billion cubic feet.
"Bcfe" means billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent, determined using the ratio of one Bbl of oil or condensate to six Mcf of natural gas.
"Btu" means British thermal unit, which is the heat required to raise the temperature of a one-pound mass of water from 58.5 to 59.5 degrees Fahrenheit.
"Bbtu" means billion Btus.
"Capital Expenditures" means costs associated with exploratory and development drilling, including exploratory dry holes; leasehold acquisitions; seismic data acquisitions; geological, geophysical and land-related overhead expenditures; delay rentals; producing property acquisitions; and other miscellaneous capital expenditures.
"Completion Costs" means as to any well, all those costs incurred after the decision to complete the well as a producing well. Generally, these costs include all costs, liabilities and expenses, whether tangible or intangible, necessary to complete a well and bring it into production, including installation of service equipment, tanks and other materials necessary to enable the well to deliver production.
"Developed Acreage" means the number of acres which are allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production.
"Development Location" means a location on which a development well can be drilled.
"Development Well" means a well drilled within the proved area of an oil or natural gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive in an attempt to recover proved undeveloped reserves.
"Drilling Unit" means an area specified by governmental regulations or orders or by voluntary agreement for the drilling of a well to a specified formation or formations which may combine several smaller tracts or subdivides a large tract, and within which there is usually some right to share in production or expense by agreement or by operation of law.
"Dry Hole" means a well found to be incapable of producing either oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or natural gas well.
"EBITDA" is defined as earnings or loss before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization and impairment. EBITDA is a financial measure commonly used in the oil and natural gas industry as an indicator of a Company's ability to service and incur debt. However, EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income, cash flows provided by operating activities or other data prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or as a measure of a company's profitability or liquidity. EBITDA is a component of one of the debt covenants contained in the Company's credit facility agreement. EBITDA measures as presented may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies.
"Estimated Future Net Revenues" means revenues from production of oil and natural gas, net of all production-related taxes, lease operating expenses, capital costs and abandonment costs.
"Exploratory Well" means a well drilled to find and produce oil or natural gas in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or natural gas in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir.
"Future Development Cost" means the amount of estimated future capital expenditures related to the development of proved undeveloped properties.
"Gross Acre" means an acre in which a working interest is owned.
"Gross Well" means a well in which a working interest is owned.
"Infill Drilling" means drilling for the development and production of proved undeveloped reserves that lie within an area bounded by producing wells.
"Lease Operating Expense" means all direct costs associated with and necessary to operate a producing property.
"Lifting Costs" means the expenses of lifting oil and natural gas from a producing formation to the surface, consisting of the costs incurred to operate and maintain wells and related equipment and facilities, including labor costs, repair and maintenance, supplies, insurance, production, severance and windfall profit taxes.
"MBbls" means thousand barrels.
"MBtu" means thousand Btus.
"Mcf" means thousand cubic feet.
"Mcfe" means thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent, determined using the ratio of one Bbl of oil or condensate to six Mcf of natural gas.
"MMBbls" means million barrels.
"MMBtu" means million Btus.
"MMcf" means million cubic feet.
"MMcfe" means million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent, determined using the ratio of one Bbl of oil or condensate to six Mcf of natural gas.
"Natural Gas Liquids" means liquid hydrocarbons that have been extracted from natural gas, e.g., ethane, propane, butane and natural gasoline.
"Net Acres or Net Wells" means the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres or gross wells.
"Oil and Natural Gas Lease" means an agreement whereby the grantee receives for a period of time of the full or partial interest in oil and natural gas properties, oil and natural gas mineral rights, fee rights or other rights of the grantor granting the grantee the right to drill for, produce and sell oil and natural gas upon payment of rentals, bonuses and/or royalties. Oil and Natural gas Leases are generally acquired from private landowners and federal and state governments.
"Overriding Royalty Interest" means an interest in an oil and natural gas property entitling the owner to a share of oil and natural gas production free of well or production costs.
"PV-10", when used with respect to oil and natural gas reserves, means the estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production, future development costs and future abandonment costs, using prices and costs in effect as of the date of the report or estimate, without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as income taxes, general and administrative expenses and
debt service or to depreciation, depletion and amortization, discounted using an annual discount rate of 10%. PV-10 is not the same as the "Standard Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows" as prescribed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 69 promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board because it does not take into consideration future income taxes.
"Productive Well" means a well that is producing oil or natural gas or that is capable of production.
"Proved Developed Reserves" means proved reserves that are expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Additional oil and natural gas expected to be obtained through the application of fluid injection or other improved recovery techniques for supplementing the natural forces and mechanisms of primary recovery are included as proved developed reserves only after testing by pilot project or after the operation of an installed program as confirmed through production response that increased recovery will be achieved.
"Proved Reserves" means the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions; i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions.
"Proved Undeveloped Reserves" means proved reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Reserves on undrilled acreage are limited to those drilling units offsetting productive units that are reasonably certain of production when drilled. Proved reserves for other undrilled units can be claimed only where it can be demonstrated with certainty that there is continuity of production from the existing productive formation. Under no circumstances can estimates for proved undeveloped reserves be attributable to any acreage for which an application of fluid injection or other improved recovery techniques are contemplated, unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual tests in the area and in the same reservoir.
"Recompletion" means the completion for production of an existing well bore in a formation different from that in which the well has previously been completed.
"Royalty Interest" means an interest in an oil and natural gas property entitling the owner to a share of oil and natural gas production or the proceeds of the sale, free of the costs of production.
"3-D Seismic" means the method by which a three dimensional image of the earth's substance is created through the interpretation of aerially collected seismic data. 3-D surveys allow for a more detailed understanding of the subsurface than do conventional surveys and contribute significantly to field appraisal, development and production.
"Undeveloped Acreage" means lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
"Working Interest" means the operating interest that gives the owner the right to drill, produce and conduct operating activities on the property and a share of production.
ITEM 3.