ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
The Company may participate in the drilling of a well or wells if it is able to successfully acquire attractive oil and gas leases with substantially proven undeveloped reserves, a preferred majority or suitable working interest being available, and can obtain or provide financing or market an interest on terms acceptable to the Company.
Oil and Gas Properties, Leases, and Interests
I Acquisition of 50% Oil and Gas Working Interests, Callahan, Stephens, and Shakelford Counties, West Central Texas
On December 22, 2009, the Company through its wholly owned subsidiary Energy Producers, Inc. entered into an Agreement for the Assignment of Interests in Oil and Gas Leases (“Assignment”), with Whitt Oil & Gas, Inc., (“Whitt”) a Texas corporation acquiring 50% working interests and corresponding 32% net revenue interests in oil and gas leases, reserves, and equipment. The leases, equipment, and a turnkey work program relate to three wells located on the leases representing the aggregate total of 240 Acres in Shackelford, Callahan, and Stephens counties, West Central Texas. The program also includes the right but not the obligation to drill four more wells in the future. The acquired leases and the property to which they relate are identified below:
1. That certain Oil, Gas and Mineral Lease dated September 17, 2007, by and between Eugene Bell, Lessor, and E & D Bell, LLC, Lessee and that certain Oil, Gas and Mineral Lease dated September 17, 2007, by and between Harold Elledge, Lessor, and E & D Bell, LLC, Lessee each covering the following two (2) parcels of land in Callahan County, Texas:
Tract I: Being 40 acres as near as is practicable in the form of a square around the LCS Production of McWhorter #1 well, Callahan County, Texas.
Tract II: Being 40 acres as near as is practicable in the form of a square around the Ratex Energy, Inc. No. 3 Young well, Callahan County, Texas.
2. Those two certain Oil and Gas Leases dated December 18, 2009, by and between Juanita B. Boyett Trust, Jearl Silas Boyett, Executor, Lessor, and Whitt Oil &. Gas, Inc., Lessee, to the extent, and to the extent only, that said lease covers all of the Southeast One-fourth (SE/4) of Section 55, B.A.L., A-2746, Stephens and Shackelford Counties, Texas.
The following wells are located on the leases identified, above:
1. McWhorter No. Well, Texas Lease I.D. 27348, Callahan County, Texas.
2. Young No. 3 Well, Texas Lease I.D. 26519, Callahan County, Texas.
3. Boyett Well, Texas, API #42-417-37567, Shackelford County, Texas.
A mineral interest is the ownership of rights to gas, oil, or other minerals as they naturally occur in place, at or below the surface of a tract of land. Ownership of the minerals carries with it the right to make such reasonable use of the surface as may be necessary to explore for and produce the minerals. Only the mineral owner (or fee owner) may execute an oil or gas lease conveying his interest in a tract of land. Severance: The owner of all rights to a tract of land (vertically or horizontally). In horizontal severance, for example, if he chooses to sell all or part of the mineral rights, two distinct estates are created: the surface rights to the tract of land and the mineral rights to the same tract. The two estates may change hands independently of each other. Severed minerals rights may be restricted as to mineral type, or limited by depth, (in which case the landowner retains the rights to minerals other than those severed, and to depth intervals other than those severed.)
The Company attempts to maintain all of its operating wells in good working condition. Whitt Oil and Gas, Inc. (Whitt) a Texas corporation, and licensed operator, is familiar with the oil and gas business in the area. Whitt will operate the Company’s interests in the properties overseeing production and maintenance activities for its oil wells, equipment and other development activities for the leases.
The Material terms of the Operating Agreement with the Company include:
Whitt is an independent contractor and operates the subject properties on a contract basis pursuant to the AAPL form operating agreement according to our share of Working Interests (50%) with a $350 per producing well per month overhead fee and $250.00 pumper fee per well (presently for 3 wells) respectively plus electricity and other intangible repair items. All other charges whether by Whitt, an affiliate of Whitt or third parties will be the responsibility of the working interest owners of the properties. Whitt will furnish the monthly Lease Operation Expense and various activity reports to the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary Energy Producers, Inc. Upon successful commencement of production, run checks (payments) expected from future sales of oil and gas are to be sent to the operator from the purchasers for oil and gas produced. Conoco is initially designated as the gatherer for the oil. Whitt is to administrate monthly activities, and after payment of management, consulting, and lease-operating expenses (LOE’s), it collects and compiles the Joint Interest Billing (JIB) Statements and prepares certain reports and financial statements related to production income and expenses for monthly delivery to Company’s accounting for compilation along with its share of the payment to be received according to its interests.
In 2009 and 2010 rehabilitation and enhancement programs were implemented included well repairs followed by frac treatment for each well, namely the McWhorter No. 1 Well with perforations in the Bend Conglomerate Formation at 4,060 to 4,068 feet, the Young No. 3 Well to produce at 2,530 feet depth in the Palo Pinto Lime, and the Boyett Well, to produce in the Caddo Lime at approximately 3,400 feet. Upon operations concluding the recompletion program it was ultimately determined in the fourth quarter of 2011 that after several attempts of clearing fluid to complete all three wells that the reservoirs were not commercially productive in the zones. The Young #1 remains a good candidate for a salt water disposal well for projects going forward.
For 2012 the Company is now advancing its planning for in-depth technical evaluations to be conducted on the two undeveloped Barnett Shale locations situated on the Boyette lease at the 5,500 ft. depth. Recent successes in the local Barnett wells have encouraged both management and its operator, to advance the timing on the Barnett evaluation. The seismic study will focus on specific Barnett Shale formation characteristics that will assist in the drilling of two Barnett horizontal wells. There have been recent Barnett wells in the area that have been productive in the oil segment / phase of the Barnett Shale that have justified the seismic study. The onsite seismic work is expected to commence within 90 days. Upon successful seismic testing the estimated costs or Authorization for Expenditure (AFE) for Barnet Horizontal Well program will be approximately $750,000 per each horizontal well considered to be drilled.
Listing for the Equipment items related to the wells on the leases are as follows:
*Recoverable Equipment Inventory
Young Lease (Callahan County)
2 x 210 BBL oil tanks w/connections
1 x 4 x 20’ oil and gas separator
1- American 80 pump jack w/20 hp electric motor
4,000’ D&T-7000# 2 3/8 tubing
4,000’ ¾ rods
4,000’ 4 ½” casing
1-200 bbl open top F.g. water tank
2500’ 2” poly flow line
Well head, I.H. pump, associated equipment
McWhorter Lease (Callahan County)
1-210 bbl oil tank
1-Oilwell 57 pump jack w/20 hp electric motor
4000’ D&T-7000# 2 3/8” tubing
4000’ 3/4” rods
4000’ 4 ½” casing
Well head, D.H. pump, associated equipment
Boyett Lease (Shackelford County)
1-Oilwell 57 pump jack w/20 hp electric motor
3500’ D&T 7000# 2 3/8” tubing
3500’ ¾” rods
3500’ 4 ½” casing
1-210 bbl oil & water tank
Well head, D. H. pump and associated equipment
/1 Subject to accumulated depreciation and depletion (see Footnote 7. Fixed Assets -net) in the notes the consolidated financial statements further listed in this document.
II. Acquisition of 75% Oil and Gas Working Interests in the J.B. Tubb Leasehold Estate/Amoco Crawar Field, Ward County, Texas
On March 1, 2011 the Company’s through its wholly owned subsidiary Energy Producers, Inc. (“EPI”) acquired all assets of Ginzoil Inc., (“GZI”) a wholly owned subsidiary of Dutchess Private Equities Fund, Ltd., (Investors”) as described in the preliminary Assignment and Bill of Sale and summarily as follows: Under the terms of the agreement, which shall be effective March 1, 2011, EPI acquired a majority 75% Working Interest and 56.25% corresponding Net Revenue Interest in the North 40 acres of the J.B. Tubb Leasehold Estate/Amoco Crawar field and oil and gas interests, including all related assets, fixtures, equipment, three well heads, three well bores, and pro rata oil & gas revenue and reserves for all depths below the surface to 8500 ft. The field is located in the Permian Basin and the Crawar Field in Ward County, Texas (12 miles west of Monahans & 30 miles west of Odessa in West Texas). Included in the transaction, EPI will also acquire 75% Working Interest and 56.25% corresponding Net Revenue Interest in the Highland Production Company No. 2 well-bore located in the South 40 acres of the J.B. Tubb Leasehold Estate/Amoco Crawar field, oil and gas interests, pro rata oil & gas revenues and reserves with depth of ownership 4700 ft. to 4900 ft. As consideration for the transaction the Company agreed to authorize and issue and sell to Investors 2,500 shares of a new, to be authorized, Series D preferred stock to Investors for one thousand dollars ($1,000) per share, or a total in the aggregate stated value of two million five hundred thousand ($2,500,000) dollars.
Pursuant to the SPA each share of Series D Preferred Stock shall be convertible, at the sole option of the Investor or holder thereof, into share(s) of the Corporation’s Common Stock (“Conversion Shares”). The Conversion Formula at the time of any noticed and converted shall mean that the number of Conversion Shares (common stock) to be received by the holder of Series D Preferred Stock in exchange for each share of Series D Preferred Stock that such holder intends to convert pursuant to this provision, where such number of Conversion Shares shall be equal to the greater of the number calculated by dividing the Purchase Commitment per share ($1000) by i) .003 per share, ii) one hundred and ten percent (110%) of the lowest VWAP for the three (3) days immediately preceding a Conversion Date. The Company has agreed to keep a sufficient number of its common shares on hand for future conversions as listed in Section 1 of the SPA. The preferred stock was valued at fair value based on the use of a multinomial lattice model with computed the following assumptions: annual volatility at 238%, 20% of default at maturity, and the holder would convert at 1.5 times the conversion price decreasing as it approaches maturity. The total fair value of these preferred shares was computed to be $2,167,306.
For additional information please see the Section in “The Business” under the sub heading “2011 Work Program and Finance Costs Associated With Our Acquired Oil and Gas Interests in the Texas, J.B. Tubb Leasehold Estate.”
The acquired leases and the property to which they relate are identified below:
North 40 acres: J.B. TUBB “18-1”, being the W1/2 of the NW1/4 of Section 18, Block B-20, Public School Lands, Ward County, Texas, containing Forty (North 40) acres only (also listed as Exhibit “A” to Exhibit 10.1 in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 7, 2011, incorporated herein by reference.
Well-bore loated on South 40 acres: The Highland Production Company (Crawar) #2 well-bore, API No. 42-475-33611, located on the J.B. Tubb Lease in W ½ of the NW ¼ of Sec. 18, Block B-20, Public School Lands, Ward County, Texas at 1787 FNL and 853 FWL being on the South Forty (40) acres of the J. B. Tubb Lease, Ward County, Texas.
The following wells are located on the leases identified, above:
*Highland Production Company(Crawar) #2 well-bore only, with depth of ownership 4700’ to 4900’ft. in well bore, described as: The Highland Production Company (Crawar) #2 well-bore, located on the J.B. Tubb Lease in W ½ of the NW ¼ of Sec. 18, Block B-20, Public School Lands, Ward County, Texas at 1787 FNL and 853 FWL being on the South Forty (40) acres of the J. B. Tubb Lease, Ward County, Texas.
A mineral interest is the ownership of rights to gas, oil, or other minerals as they naturally occur in place, at or below the surface of a tract of land. Ownership of the minerals carries with it the right to make such reasonable use of the surface as may be necessary to explore for and produce the minerals. Only the mineral owner (or fee owner) may execute an oil or gas lease conveying his interest in a tract of land. Severance: The owner of all rights to a tract of land (vertically or horizontally). In horizontal severance, for example, if he chooses to sell all or part of the mineral rights, two distinct estates are created: the surface rights to the tract of land and the mineral rights to the same tract. The two estates may change hands independently of each other. Severed minerals rights may be restricted as to mineral type, or limited by depth, (in which case the landowner retains the rights to minerals other than those severed, and to depth intervals other than those severed.)
The Company attempts to maintain all of its operating wells in good working condition. Success Oil Co., Inc. (Success) a Texas corporation, and licensed operator, is familiar with the oil and gas business in the area. Success will operate the Company’s interests in the properties overseeing production and maintenance activities for its oil wells, equipment and other development activities for the leases.
The Material terms of the Operating Agreement with the Company include:
Success is an independent contractor and operates the subject properties on a contract basis pursuant to the AAPL form operating agreement according to our share of Working Interests (75%) with a $550 per producing well per month overhead fee and $500.00 pumper fee per well (presently for 3 wells) respectively plus electricity, chemical treatment, and other intangible repair items. All other charges whether by Success, an affiliate of Success or third parties will be the responsibility of the working interest owners of the properties. Success will furnish the monthly Lease Operation Expense and various activity reports to the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary Energy Producers, Inc. Upon production being sold, run checks (payments) expected from future sales of oil and gas are to be sent to the operator from the purchasers for oil and gas produced. Sunoco is initially designated as the gatherer for the oil and Targa Midstream for the natural gas. Success is to administrate monthly activities, and after payment of management, consulting, and lease-operating expenses (LOE’s), it collects and compiles the Joint Interest Billing (JIB) Statements and prepares certain reports and financial statements related to production income and expenses for monthly delivery to Company’s accounting for compilation along with its share of the payment to be received according to its interests.
Listing for the Equipment items related to the wells on the leases on the J.B. Tubb Leasehold Estate (RRC #33611) Amoco/ Crawar field are as follows:
The following is the current & present equipment list that Energy Producers Inc. will acquire 75% ownership rights, on the J.B. Tubb property: 2 (Two) 500 barrels metal tanks, 1(One) 500 barrel cement salt water tank- (open top), 1 (One) heater treater/oil & gas separator, all flow lines, on the north forty acres, well-heads, 2 (two) Christmas tree valve systems on well-heads, 3 (Three) well heads, three wells (well-bores). Model 320D Pumpjack Serial No. E98371M/456604, One (1) Fiberglass lined heater-treater, One (1) Test pot, Tubing string Rods and down hole pump.
Allocation of Purchase Price for J.B. Tubb Leasehold Estate Working and Corresponding Net Revenue Interests, Amoco/Crawar Field, Ward County, Texas.
Reserves- Oil and Gas Properties, Leases, and Interests Located in Ward, Callahan, Stephens, and Shakelford Counties, West Central Texas
Harper & Associates, Inc. completed the subject petroleum reserve report on April 9, 2012, in preparation for the US Form 10-K for Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011, to be filed by EGPI Firecreek, Inc. (“EGPI”). The evaluated properties are located in Shackelford and Ward Counties, Texas. Net oil and gas reserves herein represent a 100 percent portion of EGPI’s total reserves. The reserve estimations comply with the definitions of the U.S. Security Exchange Commission. Reserves are classified proved developed producing (“PDP”), behind-pipe (“PBP”) and undeveloped (“PUD”). Proved reserves are those reported where the level of certainty is at least 90 percent probable that the quantities actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimates. Also considered are probable undeveloped (“PbUD”) reserves. Probable reserves are those reported where the level of certainty is at least 50 percent probable and that the quantities actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimates reserves. Proved and probable quantities were determined using all geologic and engineering methods and procedures as considered necessary under the circumstances to prepare the report.
A summary of our conclusion with respect to EPGI net reserves and cumulative future cash flow (before U.S. federal income tax), undiscounted and discounted at 10% percent per year is as follows:
RESERVE SUMMARY
Reserves and economic results for each reserve class are attached, along with a one-line summary. Individual well reserves are presented herein.
*Revenue is net of severance and ad valorem taxes.
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES
All assumptions, lease descriptions and holdings, ownership, historical prices, operating lease cost, well planned investments and past production were appropriately presented by the Company. Interests were accepted as represented.
Price Parameters. EGPI’s 12-month average oil price is $91.54 and benchmark price is $94.55 per barrel of oil. EGPI’s
12-month average gas price is $5.31 and benchmark price is $4.38 per MCF of gas. Oil and gas revenue for a lease is based on the average of the monthly 2011 prices. Prices are not escalated. BTU content, fuel and shrinkage for gas production and the quality of oil production are considered.
Cost Parameters. Well operating expenses are based on the knowledge and experience of our staff in the oil and gas operations of the subject counties. Expenses are recurring monthly values including G&A. Operating expenses and investments are not escalated. Production severance and ad valorem taxes are deducted from revenue.
Discount Factors. Discount factors are calculated at mid-year, compounded annually, and applied to yearly lump sum revenues, expenses and investments.
RESERVE DISCLOSURES
Reserve Estimation Uncertainties. The determination of the reserves is based on a petroleum engineering evaluation, supported by an independent geologic interpretation that involved direct and indirect characterization and estimates of reservoir properties. These properties are derived from data available at the time of preparation. One should not construe that the reserve quantities are exact. As additional data becomes available or well operating conditions change, the likely oil, condensate or gas recovery of a reservoir may change, and consequently reserve quantities change.
Regulation Effects. Reserves are based on the monthly quantities that can be produced above a lease economic limit, i.e. the “costs” attributed to a lease in the operation of the downhole and surface equipment. Regulations of government agencies that increase those “costs” will cause a reserve reduction. Possible changes to the current government regulations are not considered in the economic limits herein.
Reserve Evaluation Usage. Reserve estimates compile with the definitions of the U. S. Security Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The reserves and dollars reported herein are not determined for the following purposes: 1) litigation, 2) loan basis, and 3) market value estimate.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. The reserves and reservoir predictions are estimates only. There are numerous uncertainties in the estimation of interpretation parameters, including factors such as product prices, product demand, subsurface heterogeneities, and other variables, that are beyond the control of the authors of the report as well as the owners of the subject properties. The estimates in the appraisal are based on various assumptions relating to rates of future production, timing and amount of development expenditures, oil and gas prices, and the results of planned development work. Actual future production rates and volumes, revenues, taxes, operating expenses, development expenditures, and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates. Any significant change in these assumptions, including changes that result from variances between projected and actual results, could materially and adversely affect future reserve estimates. In addition, such reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon production history, results of future development, prevailing oil prices, and other factors.
Reservoir engineering and geological interpretation are a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate, performance prediction, or geological analysis is a function of the quality of the available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. In addition, the impacts of various drilling, completion, and production practices on productivity can be estimated but not fully defined or quantified. As a result, estimates and analyses by different engineers and geoscientists may vary.
Wells And Acreage
In the oil and gas industry and as used herein, the word “gross” well or acre is a well or acre in which a working interest is owned; the number of gross wells is the total number of wells in which a working interest is owned. A “net” well or acre is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership working interests in gross wells or acres equals one. The number of net wells or acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross wells or acres.
Set forth below is information respecting the developed and undeveloped acreage owned by the Company in Ward, Callahan, Stephens and Shackelford Counties, Texas, as of December 31, 2011.
Our Corporate offices are located in Scottsdale, Arizona, and our wholly-owned subsidiary Firecreek Petroleum, maintained an office in Fort Worth, Texas, but moved its operations primarily to Scottsdale, Arizona during second quarter of operations in 2006. Please see also “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” for further discussion.
The Chief Executive Officer of the Company provided corporate office space through May 31, 2009 at no charge. There is a lease agreement in place for lease of the space beginning June 1, 2009 on a one year, renewable annually contract. The lease has been renewed as of June 1, 2011 for an additional year. $1,400 is paid monthly. Please see “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions”.
Exploration and Production
The Company, in addition to its present plans contemplated for the Whitt Oil and Gas, Inc. three well program including first right to drill four wells, are to successfully acquire attractive oil and gas leases with substantially proven undeveloped reserves, a preferred majority, or suitable working interest being available, and can obtain or provide financing or market an interest on terms acceptable to the Company.
Properties and Equipment-M3 Lighting, Inc. (M3), a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company
As of June 1, 2009 the Company’s Southwest Parent headquarters and operations for Energy Producers, Inc. are located at 6564 Smoke Tree Lane, Scottsdale, Arizona 85253. The Secretary, Comptroller, and shareholder of the Company provides approximately 1431 square feet being utilized for the Company charging $1,400 a month on a contracted basis. Prior to June 1, 2009, the Chief Executive Officer and shareholder of the Company provided corporate office space through May 31, 2009 at no charge. In the event that our facilities in Scottsdale should, for any reason, become unavailable, we believe that alternative facilities are available at competitive rates. Please see “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” for further discussion.
As of May 22, 2009 through February 2011 our headquarters for the Company’s Eastern based operations and M3 were located at 3400 Peachtree Road, Suite 111 Atlanta, Georgia 30326,.The space was provided free of charge for all of 2010 and the two months of 2011 and as a result, no fees were paid. Please see “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” for further discussion.
Property and Equipment-South Atlantic Traffic Corporation, (SATCO), a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company
SATCO headquarters were located at 3400 Peachtree Road, Suite 111 Atlanta, Georgia 30326, with additional satellite offices in offices in Cocoa, FL / Englewood, FL / Woodstock, GA / Charlotte, NC and Fayetteville NC. The Georgia and North Carolina offices were closed during the year 2010. A Florida office was closed in January 2011. The Company had non-cancelable operating leases, primarily for remaining office space and certain office equipment. The operating leases generally contain renewal options for periods ranging from three months to two years and require the Company to pay all executory costs such as maintenance and insurance. Rental expense for operating leases was approximately $68,728, $39,755 and $0 the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. The leases have been settled and terminated as of December 31, 2010.
Please see also “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” for further discussion.
ITEM 3.