ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
Glossary of Oil and Gas Terms.
Barrel: Equal to 42 U.S. gallons.
Basin: A depressed sediment-filled area, roughly circular or elliptical in shape, sometimes very elongated. Regarded as a good area to explore for oil and gas.
British thermal unit, (BTU): A measure of the heating value of a fuel.
Completion: The installation of permanent equipment for the production of oil or gas.
Field: A geographic region situated over one or more subsurface oil and gas reservoirs encompassing at least the outermost boundaries of all oil and gas accumulations known to be within those reservoirs vertically projected to the land surface.
Fracturing: The application of hydraulic pressure to the reservoir formation to create fractures through which oil or gas may move to the wellbore.
Improved Oil Recovery (“IOR”): Effort to improve or enhance oil recovery that does not include secondary or tertiary basic recovery methods. In most oil fields, only a fraction of the oil can be produced by natural reservoir pressure and by conventional methods such as pumping. The remaining, or residual, oil can be recovered only by using recovery methods that restore pressure and fluid flow in underground formations through the introduction of water, gas, chemicals, or heat into the reservoir.
License: Formal or legal permission to explore for oil and gas in a specified area.
Log: Io conduct a survey inside a borehole to gather information about the subsurface formations; the results of such a survey. Logs typically consist of several curves on a long grid that describe properties within the wellbore or surrounding formations that can be interpreted to provide information about the location of oil, gas, and water. Also called well logs, borehole logs, wireline logs.
Mcf: Is a thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
Mineral interest: The ownership of rights to gas, oil, or other minerals as they naturally occur in place, at or below the surface of a tract of land. Ownership of the minerals carries with it the right to make such reasonable use of the surface as may be necessary to explore for and produce the minerals. Only the mineral owner (or fee owner) may execute an oil or gas lease conveying his interest in a tract of land.
Oil: Crude oil or condensate.
Operator: An individual, company, trust, or foundation responsible for the exploration, development, and production of an oil or gas well or lease.
Productive: Able to produce oil and/or gas.
Proved reserves: Estimated quantities of crude oil, condensate, natural gas, and natural gas liquids that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be commercially recoverable in the future from known reservoirs under existing conditions using established operating procedures and under current governmental regulations.
Proved undeveloped reserves: Economically recoverable reserves estimated to exist in proved reservoirs, which will be recovered from wells, drilled in the future.
Reserves: The estimated value of oil, gas and/or condensate, which is economically recoverable.
Tons: A ton of oil is equal to 7.29 barrels of oil.
Working interest: The percentage of the operating, drilling, completing and reworking costs that the Company is required to pay. The net revenue interest is the percentage of the revenues that the Company receives from the sale of oil that is produced from the wells.
Working interest on a “Third for Quarter Basis”: The non-operator usually will pay all costs attributable to restoring the well or wells to production and will own 75% of the working interest in the well or wells; The operator receives the remaining 25% working interest as a free carried working interest.
Recompletion: The completion for production of an existing well bore in another formation from that in which the well has been previously completed.
Severance: The owner of all rights to a tract of land (vertically or horizontally). In horizontal severance, for example, if he chooses to sell all or part of the mineral rights, two distinct estates are created: the surface rights to the tract of land and the mineral rights to the same tract. The two estates may change hands independently of each other. Severed mineral rights may be restricted as to mineral type, or limited by depth, in which case the landowner retains the rights to minerals other than those severed, and to depth intervals other than those severed.
Workover: Operations on a producing well to restore or increase production. A workover may be performed to stimulate the well, remove sand or wax from the wellbore, to mechanically repair the well, or for other reasons.
The Company may participate in the drilling of a well or wells if it is able to successfully acquire attractive oil and gas leases with substantially proven undeveloped reserves, a preferred majority or suitable working interest being available, and can obtain or provide financing or market an interest on terms acceptable to the Company.
Oil and Gas Properties, Leases, and Interests
Acquisition of 50% Oil and Gas Working Interests, Callahan, Stephens, and Shakelford Counties, West Central Texas
On December 22, 2009, the Company through its wholly owned subsidiary Energy Producers, Inc. entered into an Agreement for the Assignment of Interests in Oil and Gas Leases (“Assignment”), with Whitt Oil & Gas, Inc., (“Whitt”) a Texas corporation acquiring 50% working interests and corresponding 32% net revenue interests in oil and gas leases, reserves, and equipment. The leases, equipment, and a turnkey work program relate to three wells located on the leases representing the aggregate total of 240 Acres in Shackelford, Callahan, and Stephens counties, West Central Texas. The program also includes the right but not the obligation to drill four more wells in the future. The acquired leases and the property to which they relate are identified below:
1. That certain Oil, Gas and Mineral Lease dated September 17, 2007, by and between Eugene Bell, Lessor, and E & D Bell, LLC, Lessee and that certain Oil, Gas and Mineral Lease dated September 17, 2007, by and between Harold Elledge, Lessor, and E & D Bell, LLC, Lessee each covering the following two (2) parcels of land in Callahan County, Texas:
Tract I: Being 40 acres as near as is practicable in the form of a square around the LCS Production of McWhorter #1 well, Callahan County, Texas.
Tract II: Being 40 acres as near as is practicable in the form of a square around the Ratex Energy, Inc. No. 3 Young well, Callahan County, Texas.
2. Those two certain Oil and Gas Leases dated December 18, 2009, by and between Juanita B. Boyett Trust, Jearl Silas Boyett, Executor, Lessor, and Whitt Oil &. Gas, Inc., Lessee, to the extent, and to the extent only, that said lease covers all of the Southeast One-fourth (SE/4) of Section 55, B.A.L., A-2746, Stephens and Shackelford Counties, Texas.
The following wells are located on the leases identified, above:
1.
McWhorter No. Well, Texas Lease I.D. 27348, Callahan County, Texas.
2.
Young No. 3 Well, Texas Lease I.D. 26519, Callahan County, Texas.
3.
Boyett Well, Texas, API #42-417-37567, Shackelford County, Texas.
A mineral interest is the ownership of rights to gas, oil, or other minerals as they naturally occur in place, at or below the surface of a tract of land. Ownership of the minerals carries with it the right to make such reasonable use of the surface as may be necessary to explore for and produce the minerals. Only the mineral owner (or fee owner) may execute an oil or gas lease conveying his interest in a tract of land. Severance: The owner of all rights to a tract of land (vertically or horizontally). In horizontal severance, for example, if he chooses to sell all or part of the mineral rights, two distinct estates are created: the surface rights to the tract of land and the mineral rights to the same tract. The two estates may change hands independently of each other. Severed minerals rights may be restricted as to mineral type, or limited by depth, (in which case the landowner retains the rights to minerals other than those severed, and to depth intervals other than those severed.)
The Company attempts to maintain all of its operating wells in good working condition. Whitt Oil and Gas, Inc. (Whitt) a Texas corporation, and licensed operator, is familiar with the oil and gas business in the area. Whitt will operate the Company’s interests in the properties overseeing production and maintenance activities for its oil wells, equipment and other development activities for the leases.
The Material terms of the Operating Agreement with the Company include:
Whitt is an independent contractor and operates the subject properties on a contract basis pursuant to the AAPL form operating agreement according to our share of Working Interests (50%) with a $350 per producing well per month overhead fee and $250.00 pumper fee per well (presently for 3 wells) respectively plus electricity and other intangible repair items. All other charges whether by Whitt, an affiliate of Whitt or third parties will be the responsibility of the working interest owners of the properties. Whitt will furnish the monthly Lease Operation Expense and various activity reports to the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary Energy Producers, Inc. Upon successful commencement of production, run checks (payments) expected from future sales of oil and gas are to be sent to the operator from the purchasers for oil and gas produced. Conoco is initially designated as the gatherer for the oil. Whitt is to administrate monthly activities, and after payment of management, consulting, and lease-operating expenses (LOE’s), it collects and compiles the Joint Interest Billing (JIB) Statements and prepares certain reports and financial statements related to production income and expenses for monthly delivery to Company’s accounting for compilation along with its share of the payment to be received according to its interests.
Reserves-Whitt Oil and Gas, Inc. Three Well Program; Oil and Gas Properties, Leases, and Interests
Located in Callahan, Stephens, and Shakelford Counties, West Central Texas
The following table sets forth the estimated total proved developed non-producing, oil reserves, net to the Company’s interest held by its wholly owned subsidiary Energy Producers, Inc. (EPI). The reserve information is based on excerpts of the independent report prepared by Harper & Associates, Inc., and by its President, Mr. Michael Harper, a registered Professional Engineer in Louisiana #13687 and in Texas # 34481. Mr. Harper is a certified earth scientist, SIPES #2881, and has other memberships in professional associations including Society of Petroleum Engineers (#070557). Petroleum reserves for certain properties of Energy Producers, Inc. were determined and economic forecasts prepared for the working interests of EPI to estimate proved developed non-producing reserves and future net revenue from the Whitt three well programs to the subject interests. This evaluation was authorized by EGPI Firecreek, Inc. in behalf of EPI. An independent engineering analysis of data was conducted and reserve estimates and economics determined under constant price and operating cost, re new SEC guidelines. The oil and gas revenue is based on the average of the January through December 2010 prices for each lease. Future prices are held constant with the weighted average for oil ($/Bbl) $77.00 and for gas ($/MCF) $7.63. BTU content, fuel and shrinkage for gas production and the quality of oil production are considered. Well operating expenses were based on the knowledge and experience of the Harper and Associates, Inc. staff in oil operations of the subject counties for expenses and recurring monthly values including G&A. Operating expenses and investments are not escalated. Production and ad valorem taxes are deducted from revenue.
The following table below summarizes net proved reserves and cumulative future cash flows (before U.S. federal income tax) undiscounted and discounted at 10% per year:
*Revenue is net of severance and ad valorem taxes.
It should be emphasized that with the current economic uncertainties, fluctuation in market conditions could significantly change the economics of the property included in this report. EPI provided operating cost data beginning with their purchase of the property in December 2009. Beginning in January 2010, costs were held constant for the remaining life of the property. State production taxes and average county ad valorem taxes have been deducted at the published rates for Texas as appropriate. Based on information supplied by EPI capital costs were not included in the projection of reserves and economics in this evaluation.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. The reserves and reservoir predictions are estimates only. There are numerous uncertainties in the estimation of interpretation parameters, including factors such as product prices, product demand, subsurface heterogeneities, and other variables, that are beyond the control of the authors of the report as well as the owners of the subject properties. The estimates in the appraisal are based on various assumptions relating to rates of future production, timing and amount of development expenditures, oil and gas prices, and the results of planned development work. Actual future production rates and volumes, revenues, taxes, operating expenses, development expenditures, and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates. Any significant change in these assumptions, including changes that result from variances between projected and actual results, could materially and adversely affect future reserve estimates. In addition, such reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon production history, results of future development, prevailing oil prices, and other factors.
Reservoir engineering and geological interpretation are a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate, performance prediction, or geological analysis is a function of the quality of the available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. In addition, the impacts of various drilling, completion, and production practices on productivity can be estimated but not fully defined or quantified. As a result, estimates and analyses by different engineers and geoscientists may vary.
Listing for the Equipment items related to the wells on the leases are as follows:
*Recoverable Equipment Inventory
Young Lease (Callahan County)
2 x 210 BBL oil tanks w/connections
1 x 4 x 20’ oil and gas separator
1- American 80 pump jack w/20 hp electric motor
4,000’ D&T-7000# 2 3/8 tubing
4,000’ ¾ rods
4,000’ 4 ½” casing
1-200 bbl open top F.g. water tank
2500’ 2” poly flow line
Well head, I.H. pump, associated equipment
McWhorter Lease (Callahan County)
1-210 bbl oil tank
1-Oilwell 57 pump jack w/20 hp electric motor
4000’ D&T-7000# 2 3/8” tubing
4000’ 3/4” rods
4000’ 4 ½” casing
Well head, D.H. pump, associated equipment
Boyett Lease (Shackelford County)
1-Oilwell 57 pump jack w/20 hp electric motor
3500’ D&T 7000# 2 3/8” tubing
3500’ ¾” rods
3500’ 4 ½” casing
1-210 bbl oil & water tank
Well head, D. H. pump and associated equipment
*Gober Equipment Company of Elbert Texas visually inspected the equipment on the Boyett, Young and McWhorter leases owned by Whitt Oil and gas, Inc. Based on Mr. Gobers determination of market value at present we determined the following allocations of the $225,000 purchase price paid based on our corresponding 50% working interests held by Energy Producers, Inc., :
/1 Subject to accumulated depreciation and depletion (see Footnote 7. Fixed Assets -net) in the notes the consolidated financial statements further listed in this document.
Oil and Gas Properties, Leases, and Interests through December 2, 2008
Knox County, Texas
Disposition as of December 2, 2008
In connection with the Default notice received October 24, 2008, and actions of Dutchess Private Equities Fund, Ltd., the 100% Working Interests held in the Fant Ranch Unit was disposed of and is no longer owned by the Company.
Ward County, Texas
Disposition as of December 2, 2008
In connection with the Default notice received October 24, 2008, and actions of Dutchess Private Equities Fund, Ltd., the 75% Working Interests held in the J.B. Tubb Leasehold Estate was disposed of and is no longer owned by the Company.
Sweetwater County, Wyoming
Sale of TMD
On October 30, 2008, the Company and NOC entered into an Agreement for Sale of Mineral Rights and an Assignment and Bill of Sale (collectively, the “Agreements”) relating to the Company’s sale, and NOC’s purchase, of the Company’s fifty percent (50%) undivided interest in the mineral rights created by oil and gas leases on the TMD real property, as described in the Agreements (“Mineral Rights”). Moreover, included in the sale was all of the Company’s interest in a lawsuit currently pending in the Third Judicial District Court of Sweetwater County, Wyoming (case Number Civil C-07-821-R, and styled Newport Oil Corp. v. Inter-Mountain Pipe and Threading Co.) (the “Suit”).The purchase price for these Mineral Rights and Suit was $125,000, payable in cash at closing.
A copy of the Agreement for Sale of Mineral Rights and Assignment and Bill of Sale are filed as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 31, 2008, incorporated herein by reference.
Wells And Acreage
In the oil and gas industry and as used herein, the word “gross” well or acre is a well or acre in which a working interest is owned; the number of gross wells is the total number of wells in which a working interest is owned. A “net” well or acre is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership working interests in gross wells or acres equals one. The number of net wells or acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross wells or acres.
Set forth below is information respecting the developed and undeveloped acreage owned by the Company in Callahan, Stephens and Shackelford Counties, Texas, as of December 31, 2010.
Production And Sale Of Oil And Gas
There is no information relating to the Company’s net oil and gas produced from the Company’s properties located in Callahan, Stephens, and Shakelford Counties, West Central Texas after royalties, in Fiscal Years Ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. Oil and Gas was not yet produced and online and such required tables therefore reflect this.
The following table summarizes certain information relating to the Company’s net Natural oil and natural gas produced and from the Company’s property interests held, after royalties, during the periods indicated.
Out Corporate offices are located in Scottsdale, Arizona, and our wholly-owned subsidiary Firecreek Petroleum, maintained an office in Fort Worth, Texas, but moved its operations primarily to Scottsdale, Arizona during second quarter of operations in 2006. Please see also “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” for further discussion.
The Chief Executive Officer of the Company provided corporate office space through May 31, 2009 at no charge. There is a lease agreement in place for lease of the space beginning June 1, 2009 on a one year, renewable annually contract. The lease has been renewed as of June 1, 2010 for an additional year. $1,400 is paid monthly. Please see “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions”.
Exploration and Production
The Company, in addition to its present plans contemplated for the Whitt Oil and Gas, Inc. three well program including first right to drill four wells, are to successfully acquire attractive oil and gas leases with substantially proven undeveloped reserves, a preferred majority, or suitable working interest being available, and can obtain or provide financing or market an interest on terms acceptable to the Company.
Properties and Equipment-M3 Lighting, Inc. (M3), a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company
As of June 1, 2009 the Company’s Southwest Parent headquarters and operations for Energy Producers, Inc. are located at 6564 Smoke Tree Lane, Scottsdale, Arizona 85253. The Secretary, Comptroller, and shareholder of the Company provides approximately 1431 square feet being utilized for the Company charging $1,400 a month on a contracted basis. Prior to June 1, 2009, the Chief Executive Officer and shareholder of the Company provided corporate office space through May 31, 2009 at no charge. In the event that our facilities in Scottsdale should, for any reason, become unavailable, we believe that alternative facilities are available at competitive rates. Please see “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” for further discussion.
As of May 22, 2009 through February 3, 2010 our headquarters for the Company’s Eastern based operations and M3 are located at 3400 Peachtree Road, Suite 111 Atlanta, Georgia 30326,.The space was provided free of charge for all of 2010 and a result, no fees were paid. In the event that our facilities in Atlanta should, for any reason, become unavailable, we believe that alternative facilities are available at reasonable rates. Please see “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” for further discussion.
Acquisition of South Atlantic Traffic Corporation (SATCO)
Effective November 4, 2009, the Company acquired South Atlantic Traffic Corporation (SATCO). The acquisition was effected via a stock purchase agreement between SATCO and the Company. In the course of this acquisition, SATCO stockholders exchanged all outstanding common shares for cash consideration, EGPI common shares and sellers’ notes.
Purchase Price Allocation Report and Analysis for Certain Intangible Assets acquired by the Company on the acquisition of SATCO
The Company commissioned DS Enterprises, Inc. to provide Valuation Analysis and Purchase Price Allocation Report, along with an Impairment Analysis summary so that we could determine the fair valuation of the assets owned by SATCO, now a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
Based on the Report the Analysis of Fair Value of Intangible Assets for SFAS 141 the Purchase Price Allocation has been determined to be $2,058,373 which consists of (i) net current tangible assets and liabilities, (ii) total identified intangible assets, (Trade Name and Customer Relationships) and (iii) Goodwill, now wholly owned by the Company. The Intangible Assets will be amortized over the appropriate lives of the individual assets.
SATCO Impairment Analysis and Report Summary
The Company commissioned DS Enterprises, Inc. to provide an Impairment Analysis and Report Summary on the SATCO long lived Assets including Intangibles -Goodwill and other, including Property, Plant and Equipment.
The Report Summary, issued on March 2, 2010 was performed by Phil Scott, CFA, DS Enterprises, Inc.
Based on the Report the Report Summary concluded that there were no impairment issues found.
Property and Equipment-South Atlantic Traffic Corporation, (SATCO), a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company
SATCO headquarters are located at 3400 Peachtree Road, Suite 111 Atlanta, Georgia 30326, with additional satellite offices in offices in Cocoa, FL / Englewood, FL / Woodstock, GA / Charlotte, NC. and Fayetteville N.C. The Georgia and North Carolina offices were closed during the year 2010. A Florida office was closed in January 2011. The Company has non-cancelable operating leases, primarily for remaining office space and certain office equipment. The operating leases generally contain renewal options for periods ranging from three months to two years and require the Company to pay all executory costs such as maintenance and insurance. Rental expense for operating leases was approximately $65,840, $68,728 and $39,755 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively.
The leases have been settled and terminated as of December 31, 2010.
Please see also “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” for further discussion.
ITEM 3.