ITEM 2. PROPERTIES ELECTRIC
The Company's ownership and capacity in electric generating stations in commercial service as of December 31, 2001, were as follows:
Total Net Generation Capacity Type Name Location (MW) - -------------- ----------------- --------------------------- -------------
Coal........ SJGS (a) Waterflow, New Mexico 765 Coal........ Four Corners (b) Fruitland, New Mexico 192 Gas/Oil..... Reeves Albuquerque, New Mexico 154 Gas/Oil..... Las Vegas Las Vegas, New Mexico 20 Nuclear..... PVNGS (c) Wintersburg, Arizona 390 * ------- 1,521 PPA** 132 ------- 1,653 =======
* For load and resource purposes, the Company has notified the PRC that it recognizes the maximum dependable capacity rating for PVNGS to be 381 MW. ** The Company has a long term PPA for the rights to all output of a gas fired generating plant with maximum dependable capacity of 132 MW.
(a) SJGS Units 1, 2 and 3 are 50% owned by the Company; SJGS Unit 4 is 38.5% owned by the Company. (b) Four Corners Units 4 and 5 are 13% owned by the Company. (c) The Company is entitled to 10.2% of the power and energy generated by PVNGS. The Company has a 10.2% ownership interest in Unit 3 and has leasehold interests in approximately 7.9% of Units 1 and 2 and an ownership interest in approximately 2.3% of Units 1 and 2.
The Company's owned interests in PVNGS are mortgaged to secure its remaining first mortgage bonds.
Fossil-Fueled Plants
SJGS is located in northwestern New Mexico, and consists of four units operated by the Company. Units 1, 2, 3 and 4 at SJGS have net rated capacities of 327 MW, 316 MW, 497 MW and 507 MW, respectively. SJGS Units 1 and 2 are owned on a 50% shared basis with Tucson. Unit 3 is owned 50% by the Company, 41.8% by SCPPA and 8.2% by Tri-State. Unit 4 is owned 38.457% by the Company, 28.8% by M-S-R, 10.04% by Anaheim, 8.475% by Farmington, 7.2% by Los Alamos and 7.028% by UAMPS.
The Company also owns 192 MW of net rated capacity derived from its 13% interest in Units 4 and 5 of Four Corners located in northwestern New Mexico on land leased from the Navajo Nation and adjacent to available coal deposits. Units 4 and 5 at Four Corners are jointly owned with SCE, APS, Salt River Project, Tucson and El Paso and are operated by APS.
Four Corners and a portion of the facilities adjacent to SJGS are located on land held under easements from the United States and also under leases from the Navajo Nation. The enforcement of these leases could require Congressional consent. The Company does not deem the risk with respect to the enforcement of these easements and leases to be material. However, the Company is dependent in some measure upon the willingness and ability of the Navajo Nation to protect these properties.
The Company owns 154 MW of generation capacity at Reeves Station in COA and 20 MW of generation capacity at Las Vegas Station in Las Vegas, New Mexico. In addition, the Company has 132 MW of generation capacity in COA under a PPA. These stations and PPA are used primarily for peaking, transmission support and during times of excess capacity, augmentation of the Company's power trading activities.
Nuclear Plant
The Company's Interest in PVNGS
The Company is participating in the three 1,270 MW units of PVNGS, also known as the Arizona Nuclear Power Project, with APS (the operating agent), Salt River Project, El Paso, SCE, SCPPA and the Department of Water and Power of the City of Los Angeles. The Company has a 10.2% undivided interest in PVNGS, with portions of its interests in Units 1 and 2 held under leases.
Nuclear Safety Performance Rating on PVNGS
In 2000, the NRC began using a new, objective oversight process that is more focused on safety. The new process includes objective performance thresholds based on insights from safety studies and 30 years of plant operating experience in the United States. It is more timely, moving from the 18 to 24 month time lag of the previous oversight process for assessing plant performance to a quarterly review. The NRC also hopes the process will be more accessible to, and readily understood by, the public. PVNGS has all 38 indicators green (the best possible of the four indicator levels).
Steam Generator Tubes
APS, as the operating agent of PVNGS, has encountered tube cracking in the steam generators and has taken, and will continue to take, remedial actions that it believes have slowed the rate of tube degradation. The projected service life of steam generators is reassessed periodically and these analyses indicate that it will be economically desirable to replace the Unit 2 steam generators in 2003. In 1997, the PVNGS participants, including the Company, entered into a contract for the fabrication of two replacement steam generators for delivery in 2002. The cost of the new steam generators was updated in late 1999. The Company's share of the fabrication and installation costs will be approximately $23 million. In December 1999, the PVNGS participants unanimously approved installation of the new steam generators in Unit 2.
APS, the Company and the other PVNGS participants are currently considering issues related to the potential replacement of the steam generators in Units 1 and 3. Although a final determination of whether Units 1 and 3 will require steam generator replacements to operate over their current full licensed lives has not yet been made, the Company and the other participants have approved an expenditure of $25.6 million (of which the Company's share is $2.6 million) in 2002 and 2003 to procure long lead-time materials for fabrication of a spare set of steam generators for either Unit 1 or 3. This action will provide the PVNGS participants an option to replace the steam generators at either Unit 1 or 3 as early as fall 2005 should they ultimately choose to do so. If the participants decide to proceed with steam generator replacement at both Units 1 and 3, the Company has estimated that its portion of the fabrication and installation costs and associated power uprate modifications would be approximately $47 million over the next five years.
Sale and Leaseback Transactions of PVNGS Units 1 and 2
In 1985 and 1986, the Company entered into a total of eleven sale and lease back transactions with an owner trust under which it sold and leased back its entire 10.2% interest in PVNGS Units 1 and 2, together with portions of the Company's undivided interest in certain PVNGS common facilities. The leases under each of the sale and leaseback transactions have initial lease terms expiring January 15, 2015 (with respect to the Unit 1 leases) or January 15, 2016 (with respect to the Unit 2 leases). Each of the leases allows the Company to extend the term of the lease as well as containing a repurchase option. The lease expense for the Company's PVNGS leases is approximately $66.3 million per year. Throughout the terms of the leases, the Company continues to have full and exclusive authority and responsibility to exercise and perform all of the rights and duties of a participant in PVNGS under the Arizona Nuclear Power Project Participation Agreement and retains the exclusive right to sell and dispose of its 10.2% share of the power and energy generated by PVNGS Units 1 and 2. The Company also retains responsibility for payment of its share of all taxes, insurance premiums, operating and maintenance costs, costs related to capital improvements and decommissioning and all other similar costs and expenses associated with the leased facilities. In 1992, the Company purchased
approximately 22% of the beneficial interests in the PVNGS Units 1 and 2 leases through the purchase of an ownership interest in the trust which held the leases. The related ownership interests were subsequently reacquired by the Company when the Company's trust ownership was collapsed and the Company assumed direct ownership. In connection with the $30 million retail rate reduction stipulated with the NMPUC in 1994, the Company wrote down the purchased beneficial interests in PVNGS Units 1 and 2 leases to $46.7 million.
Each lease describes certain events, "Events of Loss" or "Deemed Loss Events", the occurrence of which could require the Company to, among other things, (i) pay the lessor and the equity investor, in return for the investor's interest in PVNGS, cash in the amount provided in the lease and (ii) assume debt obligations relating to the PVNGS lease. The "Events of Loss" generally relate to casualties, accidents and other events at PVNGS, which would severely, adversely affect the ability of the operating agent, APS, to operate, and the ability of the Company to earn a return on its interests in, PVNGS. The "Deemed Loss Events" consist mostly of legal and regulatory changes (such as changes in law making the sale and leaseback transactions illegal, or changes in law making the lessors liable for nuclear decommissioning obligations). The Company believes the probability of such "Events of Loss" or "Deemed Loss Events" occurring is remote for the following reasons: (i) to a large extent, prevention of "Events of Loss" and some "Deemed Loss Events" is within the control of the PVNGS participants, including the Company, and the PVNGS operating agent, through the general PVNGS operational and safety oversight process and (ii) with respect to other "Deemed Loss Events", which would involve a significant change in current law and policy, the Company is unaware of any pending proposals or proposals being considered for introduction in Congress, except as described below under "PVNGS Liability and Insurance Matters", or in any state legislative or regulatory body that, if adopted, would cause any such events.
PVNGS Decommissioning Funding
The Company has a program for funding its share of decommissioning costs for PVNGS. The nuclear decommissioning funding program is invested in equities and fixed income investments in qualified and non-qualified trusts. The results of the 1998 triannual decommissioning cost study indicated that the Company's share of the PVNGS decommissioning costs excluding spent fuel disposal will be approximately $181 million (in 1998 dollars).
The Company funded an additional $6.1 million, $3.9 million and $3.1 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, into the qualified and non-qualified trust funds. The estimated market value of the trusts at the end of 2001 was approximately $57 million.
The NRC amended its rules on financial assurance requirements for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants. The amended rules became effective on November 23, 1998. The NRC has indicated that the amendments respond to the potential rate deregulation in the power generating industry and NRC concerns regarding whether decommissioning funding assurance requirements will need to be modified. The amended rules provide that a licensee may use an external sinking fund as the exclusive financial assurance mechanism if the licensee recovers amounts equal to estimated total decommissioning costs through cost of service rates or through a "non-bypassable charge". Other mechanisms are prescribed, such as prepayment, surety methods, insurance and other guarantees, if the requirements for exclusive reliance on the external sinking fund mechanism are not met. The Company currently relies on the external sinking fund mechanism to
meet the NRC financial assurance requirements for its interests in PVNGS Units 1, 2 and 3. The costs of PVNGS Units 1 and 2 are currently included in PRC jurisdictional rates, but the costs of PVNGS Unit 3 are excluded from PRC jurisdictional rates. The Company has filed a report with the NRC through APS, the operating agent of PVNGS, in March 2001, concerning decommissioning funding assurance, and will continue to use the external sinking fund method as the sole financial assurance method for Unit 3 (see Item 7. "Management's Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results Of Operations - The Restructuring Act and the Formation of a Holding Company - NRC Prefunding").
Nuclear Spent Fuel and Waste Disposal
Pursuant to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended in 1987 (the "Waste Act"), the United States Department of Energy ("DOE"), is obligated to accept and dispose of all spent nuclear fuel and other high-level radioactive wastes generated by domestic power reactors. The NRC, pursuant to the Waste Act, requires operators of nuclear power reactors to enter into spent fuel disposal contracts with the DOE. Under the Waste Act, the DOE was to develop facilities necessary for the storage and disposal of spent nuclear fuel and to have the first facility in operation by 1998. That facility was to be a permanent repository. The DOE has announced that such a repository cannot be completed before 2010. In July 1996, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (D. C. Circuit) ruled that the DOE has an obligation to start disposing of spent nuclear fuel no later than January 31, 1998. By way of letter dated December 17, 1996, the DOE informed the Company and other contract holders that the DOE anticipates that it would be unable to begin acceptance of nuclear spent fuel for disposal in a repository or interim storage facility by January 31, 1998. In November 1997, the D. C. Circuit issued a Writ of Mandamus precluding the DOE from excusing its own delay on the grounds that the DOE has not yet prepared a permanent repository or interim storage facility. On May 5, 1998, the D. C. Circuit issued a ruling refusing to order the DOE to begin moving spent nuclear fuel. (See Note 11 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of interim spent fuel storage costs).
On February 15, 2002, the President of the United States approved a recommendation of the Secretary of Energy that the Yucca Mountain site in Southern Nevada be developed for the storage of nuclear spent fuel. The State of Nevada has opposed this site selection and the Company anticipates that there will be a protracted process to address the Yucca Mountain issues. The Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this process.
APS has storage capacity in existing fuel storage pools at PVNGS which, with certain modifications, could accommodate all fuel expected to be discharged from normal operation of PVNGS through approximately 2002. Construction of a new facility for on-site dry storage of spent fuel is underway. Once this facility is completed and approvals are granted, APS believes that spent fuel storage or disposal methods will be available for use by PVNGS to allow its continued operation beyond 2002.
A new low-level waste facility was built in 1995 on site, which could store an amount of waste equivalent to ten years of normal operation at PVNGS. Although some low-level waste has been stored on site, APS is currently shipping low-level waste to off-site facilities. APS currently believes that interim low-level waste storage methods are or will be available for use by PVNGS to allow its continued operation and to safely store low-level waste until a permanent disposal facility is available.
The Company believes that scientific and financial aspects of the issues of spent fuel and low-level waste storage and disposal can be resolved satisfactorily. However, the Company also acknowledges that their ultimate resolution in a timely fashion will require political resolve and action on national and regional scales which the Company is unable to predict at this time.
PVNGS Liability and Insurance Matters
The PVNGS participants have insurance for public liability resulting from nuclear energy hazards to the full limit of liability under Federal law. This potential liability is covered by primary liability insurance provided by commercial insurance carriers in the amount of $200 million and the balance by an industry-wide retrospective assessment program. If losses at any nuclear power plant covered by the program exceed the primary liability insurance limit, the Company could be assessed retrospective adjustments. The maximum assessment per reactor under the program for each nuclear incident is approximately $88 million, subject to an annual limit of $10 million per reactor per incident. Based upon the Company's 10.2% interest in the three PVNGS units, the Company's maximum potential assessment per incident for all three units is approximately $27 million, with an annual payment limitation of $3 million per incident. The insureds under this liability insurance include the PVNGS participants and "any other person or organization with respect to his legal responsibility for damage caused by the nuclear energy hazard". If the funds provided by this retrospective assessment program prove to be insufficient, Congress could impose revenue raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims.
Aspects of the Federal law referred to above (the "Price-Anderson Act"), which provides for payment of public liability claims in case of a catastrophic accident involving a nuclear power plant, is up for renewal in August 2002. While existing nuclear power plants would continue to be covered in any event, the renewal would extend coverage to future nuclear power plants and could contain amendments that would affect existing plants. A renewal bill was passed by the House with unanimous consent on November 27, 2001. The House proposed a change in the annual retrospective premium limit from $10 million to $15 million per reactor per incident. Additionally, the House proposed to amend the maximum potential assessment from $88.1 million to $98.7 million per reactor per incident, taking into account effects of inflation. On March 7, 2002 the Senate approved a Price-Anderson Act amendment as a part of the overall energy bill. The Senate version is substantially the same as the Price-Anderson Act in its current form. In the event the energy bill does not pass, it is possible that the Price Anderson amendment will be passed as a stand-alone bill. In a report issued in 1998, the NRC had made a number of recommendations regarding the Price-Anderson Act, including a recommendation that Congress investigate whether the $200 million now available from the private insurance market for liability claims per reactor can be increased to keep pace with inflation. The Company cannot predict whether or not Congress will renew the Price-Anderson Act or act on the NRC's recommendations. However, if adopted, certain changes in the law could possibly trigger "Deemed Loss Events" under the Company's PVNGS leases, absent waiver by the lessors. Such an occurrence could require the Company to, among other things, (i) pay the lessor and the equity investor, in return for the investor's interest in PVNGS, cash in the amount as provided in the lease and (ii) assume debt obligations relating to the PVNGS lease (see "Sale and Leaseback Transactions of PVNGS Units 1 and 2" above).
The PVNGS participants maintain "all-risk" (including nuclear hazards) insurance for nuclear property damage to, and decontamination of, property at PVNGS in the aggregate amount of $2.75 billion as of January 1, 2002, a substantial portion of which must be applied to stabilization and decontamination. The Company has also secured insurance against portions of the increased cost of generation or purchased power and business interruption resulting from certain accidental outages of any of the three units if the outages exceed 12 weeks. The insurance coverage discussed in this section is subject to certain policy conditions and exclusions. The Company is a member of an industry mutual insurer. This mutual insurer provides both the "all-risk" and increased cost of generation insurance to the Company. In the event of adverse losses experienced by this insurer, the Company is subject to an assessment. The Company's maximum share of any assessment is approximately $4.8 million per year.
Other Electric Properties
As of December 31, 2000, the Company owned, jointly owned or leased 2,890 circuit miles of electric transmission lines, 4,488 miles of distribution overhead lines, 3,741 cable miles of underground distribution lines (excluding street lighting) and 222 substations.
The Company and Tri-State entered into an asset sale agreement dated September 9, 1999, pursuant to which Tri-State agreed to sell the Company certain assets acquired by Tri-State's merger with Plains Electric Generation and Transmission Cooperative, Inc., consisting primarily of transmission assets, a fifty percent interest in an inactive power plant located near COA, and an office building in Albuquerque. The purchase price was $13.2 million, subject to adjustment at the time of closing with the transaction to close in two phases. The asset sale agreement contains standard covenants and conditions for this type of agreement. On July 1, 2000, the first phase was completed, and the Company acquired the 50 percent ownership in the inactive power plant and the office building. On February 28, 2001, the second phase relating to the transmission assets was completed and the Company acquired ownership of the transmission assets.
NATURAL GAS
The natural gas properties as of December 31, 2001, consisted primarily of natural gas storage, transmission and distribution systems. Provisions for storage made by the Company include ownership and operation of an underground storage facility located near Albuquerque, New Mexico. The transmission systems consisted of approximately 1,465 miles of pipe with appurtenant compression facilities. The distribution systems consisted of approximately 11,121 miles of pipe.
OTHER INFORMATION
The electric and gas transmission and distribution lines are generally located within easements and rights-of-way on public, private and Indian lands. The Company leases interests in PVNGS Units 1 and 2 and related property, EIP and associated equipment, data processing, communication, office and other equipment, office space, utility poles (joint use), vehicles and real estate. The Company also owns and leases service and office facilities in Albuquerque and in other areas throughout its service territory.
ITEM 3.