ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Exploration and Production - QEP Energy
QEP's exploration and production business is conducted through QEP Energy in two core regions - the Northern Region (including the states of Wyoming, North Dakota, Utah and Colorado) and the Southern Region (including the states of Texas and Louisiana).
Northern Region
Pinedale
QEP Energy's largest property, in terms of proved reserves, is Pinedale, where the Company is targeting the Lance Pool, which is a tight gas sand reservoir. The top of the Lance Pool reservoir ranges from 8,500 to 9,500 feet across QEP Energy's acreage. The Company currently estimates that there are up to 400 additional wells required to fully develop its Pinedale acreage on 5 to 10-acre density. On December 31, 2014, QEP Energy had four operated rigs drilling on the Pinedale Anticline. In addition to QEP Energy's 903 gross producing wells, QEP Energy has an overriding royalty interest in an additional 60 wells at Pinedale.
Williston Basin
QEP Energy has approximately 116,000 net acres in the Williston Basin in western North Dakota, where the Company is targeting the Bakken and Three Forks formations. The Company has been successful in lowering development well costs, de-risking unproven reserves, increasing production, increasing the number of future drilling locations and increasing its estimate of recoverable reserves. The top of the Bakken Formation ranges from approximately 9,500 feet to 10,000 feet across QEP Energy's leasehold. The Three Forks Formation lies approximately 60 to 70 feet below the Middle Bakken Formation and is also a target for horizontal drilling. As of December 31, 2014, QEP Energy had six operated rigs drilling in the Williston Basin.
Uinta Basin
The majority of the Uinta Basin proved reserves are found in a series of vertically stacked, laterally discontinuous reservoirs at depths of 4,500 feet to deeper than 18,000 feet. QEP Energy owns working interests in approximately 232,000 net acres in the Uinta Basin. QEP Energy had one operated rig drilling in the Uinta Basin at December 31, 2014, targeting the Lower Mesaverde Formation productive fairway in which QEP Energy holds 32,300 net acres in the Red Wash Unit.
Other Northern
The remainder of QEP Energy's Northern Region leasehold interests and proved reserves are distributed over a number of fields and properties.
Southern Region
Permian Basin
QEP Energy has approximately 26,500 net acres of producing and undeveloped properties that were acquired through the Permian Basin Acquisition in the first quarter of 2014. The Company is targeting oil dominant zones from the Upper Spraberry formation down to the Atoka formation with a combination of horizontal and vertical wells. As of December 31, 2014, QEP Energy had six operated rigs drilling in the Permian Basin.
Haynesville/Cotton Valley
QEP Energy holds approximately 50,500 net acres of producing and undeveloped properties in the Haynesville Shale play in northwestern Louisiana and additional lease rights that cover the Hosston and Cotton Valley formations. The top of the Haynesville Shale ranges from approximately 10,500 feet to 12,500 feet across QEP Energy's leasehold and is deeper than the Hosston and Cotton Valley formations that QEP Energy has been developing in northwest Louisiana since the 1990's. As of December 31, 2014, QEP Energy did not have any operated rigs drilling in the Haynesville/Cotton Valley area, however, there were six gross non-operated wells drilling and 21 gross non-operated wells waiting on completion as of December 31, 2014.
Midcontinent
QEP Energy's Midcontinent operations cover all properties in the Southern Region except the Haynesville/Cotton Valley area of northwestern Louisiana and the Permian Basin properties in west Texas and are widely distributed. QEP sold the majority of its Midcontinent properties in 2014, including its properties in the Woodford "Cana" Shale in western Oklahoma, Granite Wash/Atoka Wash in the Texas panhandle and western Oklahoma and other non-core properties within this area. As of December 31, 2014, QEP Energy did not have any operated rigs drilling in the Midcontinent area.
Reserves - QEP Energy
At December 31, 2014 and 2013, approximately 93% and 89%, respectively, of QEP Energy's estimated proved reserves were Company operated. Proved developed reserves represented 56% and 53% of the Company's total proved reserves at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, while the remaining reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. All reported reserves are located in the United States. QEP Energy does not have any long-term supply contracts with foreign governments, reserves of equity investees or reserves of subsidiaries with a significant minority interest. QEP Energy's estimated proved reserves are summarized in the table below:
____________________________
(1)
Oil and NGL are converted to natural gas equivalents at the ratio of one bbl of crude oil, condensate or NGL to six Mcf of equivalent natural gas.
QEP Energy's reserve, production and production life index for each of the years ended December 31, 2012, through December 31, 2014, are summarized in the table below:
____________________________
(1)
Reserve life index is calculated by dividing year-end proved reserves by production for that year.
Proved Reserves
Reserve and related information is presented consistent with the requirements of the SEC's rules for the Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting. These rules expand the use of reliable technologies to estimate and categorize reserves and require the use of the average of the first-of-the-month commodity prices, adjusted for location and quality differentials, for the prior 12 months (unless contractual arrangements designate the price) to calculate economic producibility of reserves and the discounted cash flows reported as the Standardized Measure of Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Reserves. Refer to Note 16 - Supplemental Oil and Gas Information (Unaudited), in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding estimates of proved reserves and the preparation of such estimates.
QEP Energy's proved reserves in major operating areas are summarized in the table below:
Estimates of the quantity of proved reserves decreased during 2014 primarily due to sales of reserves in place related to the 2014 Midcontinent property sales and decreases in estimated proved reserves in Pinedale due to production decline on older wells and fewer proved undeveloped (PUD) reserves locations. These proved reserve decreases were partially offset by reserve additions associated with the Permian Basin Acquisition that occurred during the first quarter of 2014 and increases in estimated Williston Basin proved reserves, primarily the result of extensions and additions from the recognition of additional PUD locations due to the increased drilling program.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Significant changes to PUD that occurred during 2014 are summarized in the table below:
____________________________
(1)
The increase in extensions and discoveries in 2014 was the result of 123.5 Bcfe in Pinedale and 84.7 Bcfe in the Williston Basin. All of these extensions and discoveries related to new well completions and the associated new PUD locations as part of the Company's development drilling plans and new compression projections in Pinedale.
(2)
Purchase of reserves in place in 2014 related to the Company's Permian Basin Acquisition as discussed in Note 2 - Acquisitions and Divestitures.
(3)
Sale of reserves in place related primarily to property sales in the Midcontinent in the second and fourth quarters of 2014 as discussed in Note 2 - Acquisitions and Divestitures.
(4)
All of QEP Energy's PUD reserves at December 31, 2014, are scheduled to be developed within five years from the date such locations were initially disclosed as PUD reserves; however, long-term development of gas reserves in Pinedale is governed by the BLM's September 2008 ROD on the FSEIS. Under the ROD, QEP Energy is allowed to drill and complete wells year-round in designated concentrated development areas. The ROD contains additional requirements and restrictions on the sequence of development, which requires the Company to develop its leasehold from the south to the north. These restrictions result in protracted, phased development that is beyond the control of the Company. The Company has an ongoing development plan and the financial capability to continue development in the manner estimated. Additionally, QEP Energy plans to develop its PUD reserves prior to lease expiration or extend the term of the lease.
The costs incurred to continue the development of PUD reserves were approximately $796.7 million, $645.9 million, and $513.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The costs incurred in 2014 related to the drilling of PUD locations in QEP's development projects. This investment resulted in the transfer of 368.5 Bcfe of PUD
reserves to proved developed reserves in 2014, representing 19% of the Company's total PUD reserves as of December 31, 2013.
Estimated future development costs relating to the development of PUD reserves are projected to be approximately $925.7 million in 2015, $983.7 million in 2016, and $714.3 million in 2017. Estimated future development costs include capital spending on major development projects, some of which will take several years to complete. PUD reserves related to major development projects will be reclassified to proved developed reserves when production commences.
Internal Controls Over Proved Reserve Estimates, Technical Qualifications and Technologies Used
Estimates of proved oil and gas reserves have been completed in accordance with professional engineering standards and the Company's established internal controls, which includes the compliance oversight of a multi-functional reserves review committee reporting to the Company's Board of Directors. The Company retained Ryder Scott Company (RSC) and DeGolyer and MacNaughton (D&M), independent oil and gas reserve evaluation engineering consultants, to prepare the estimates of 100% of its proved reserves as of December 31, 2014, of which RSC prepared approximately 91% and D&M prepared approximately 9% of the Company's total net proved reserves. The Company utilized RSC to prepare the estimates of 100% of the Company's total net proved reserves as of December 31, 2013 and 2012. The individual at RSC who was responsible for overseeing the preparation of QEP's reserve estimates as of December 31, 2014, for its Haynesville, Pinedale, Williston, Other Northern, Uinta and Midcontinent areas, is a registered Professional Engineer in the State of Colorado and graduated with a Masters of Science degree in Geological Engineering from the University of Missouri at Rolla in 1976. The individual has over 30 years of experience in the petroleum industry, including experience estimating and evaluating petroleum reserves. The individual at D&M who was responsible for overseeing the preparation of QEP’s Permian Division reserves estimates as of December 31, 2014, is a registered Professional Engineer in the State of Texas and graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Texas at Austin in 1984. The individual has over 30 years of experience in the petroleum industry, including experience estimating and evaluating petroleum reserves. A more detailed letter including each individual's professional qualifications has been filed as part of Exhibit 99.1 to this report for RSC and as part of Exhibit 99.2 for D&M.
The individual at QEP responsible for insuring the accuracy of the reserve estimate preparation material provided to RSC and D&M and reviewing the estimates of reserves received from RSC and D&M is QEP's Chief Engineer. This individual is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and graduated with a Bachelors of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from North Dakota State University in 1994. This individual has over 20 years of experience in the petroleum industry, including more than 15 years reservoir engineering experience in most of the active domestic basins in the U.S.
To establish proved reserves, the SEC allows a company to use technologies that have been proved effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that have been field tested and have been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. A variety of methodologies were used to determine QEP's proved reserve estimates. The principal methodologies employed are performance, analogy, volumetric methods or a combination of methods.
All of the proved producing reserves attributable to producing wells and/or reservoirs were estimated by performance methods. Performance methods include, but may not be limited to, decline curve analysis, which utilized extrapolations of historical production data available through December 2014, in those cases where such data were considered to be definitive. For wells currently in production, forecasts of future production rates are based on historical performance data. If no production decline trend has been established, future production rates were held constant, or adjusted for the effects of curtailment where appropriate, until a decline in ability to produce was anticipated. An estimated rate of decline was then applied to depletion of the reserves. If a decline trend has been established, this trend was used as the basis for estimating future production rates.
Approximately 95% of QEP's proved developed non-producing and undeveloped reserves included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K were estimated by analogy. The remaining 5% of such reserves was estimated by the volumetric method. The volumetric analysis utilizes pertinent well data furnished to RSC and D&M by QEP or obtained from available public data sources through December 2014. Test data and other related information were used to estimate the anticipated initial production rates for those wells or locations that are not currently producing. For reserves not yet in production, sales were estimated to commence at an anticipated date furnished by QEP. Wells or locations that are not currently producing may start producing earlier or later than anticipated in these estimates due to unforeseen factors causing a change in the timing to initiate production. Such factors may include delays due to weather, the availability of rigs, the sequence of drilling, completing and/or recompleting wells and/or constraints set by regulatory bodies. The future production rates from wells currently on production or wells or locations that are not currently producing may be more or less than estimated because of changes including, but not
limited to, reservoir performance, operating conditions related to surface facilities, compression and artificial lift, pipeline capacity and/or operating conditions, market demand and/or allowables or other constraints set by regulatory bodies. Some combination of these methods is used to determine reserve estimates in substantially all of QEP's fields.
Refer to Note 16 - Supplemental Oil and Gas Information (Unaudited) of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information pertaining to QEP Energy's proved reserves as of the end of each of the last three years.
In addition to this filing, QEP Energy will file reserve estimates as of December 31, 2014, with the Energy Information Administration of the Department of Energy (EIA) on Form EIA-23. Although QEP uses the same technical and economic assumptions when it prepares the Form EIA-23 as used to estimate reserves for this Annual Report on Form 10-K, it is obligated to report to the EIA reserves for only wells it operates, not for all of the wells in which it has an interest, and to include the reserves attributable to other owners in such wells.
Production, Prices and Production Costs
The following table sets forth the net production volumes and field-level prices of gas, oil and NGL produced, and the related operating expenses, for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012:
____________________________
(1)
The average field-level price does not include the impact of settled commodity price derivatives.
A summary of gas production by major geographical area is shown in the following table:
A summary of oil production by major geographical area is shown in the following table:
A summary of NGL production by major geographical area is shown in the following table:
A summary of natural gas equivalent total production by major geographical area is shown in the following table:
A regional comparison of average field-level prices is shown in the following table:
Northern Region
Pinedale
Production from Pinedale increased 4% to 98.9 Bcfe during 2014 compared to 2013. This increase in production was primarily a result of increased NGL production due to recovering ethane throughout the majority of 2014 compared to rejecting ethane throughout the majority of 2013.
Production from Pinedale decreased 5% to 94.7 Bcfe during 2013 compared to 2012. This decrease in production was primarily a result of lower NGL production due to rejecting ethane throughout the majority of 2013 compared to recovering ethane throughout the majority of 2012. Additionally, QEP had a lower average interest in wells drilled in the 2013 drilling program.
During each of the three years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, Pinedale's production represented 31% of QEP Energy's total production.
Williston Basin
In the Williston Basin, production increased 94% to 91.4 Bcfe during 2014 compared to 2013, primarily due to increased oil and NGL production. The increase in production volumes was primarily attributable to ongoing development of the properties acquired in the Williston Basin Acquisition, which contributed 6,347.5 Mbbls of increased oil and NGL volume. The remaining 377.7 Mbbls increase in 2014 related to increased development drilling on QEP's existing pre-acquisition acreage.
During 2013, production increased 133% to 47.2 Bcfe compared to 2012, due to increased oil and NGL production. The increase in production volumes was primarily attributable to ongoing development of the properties acquired in the Williston Basin Acquisition, which contributed 2,591.6 Mbbls of increased oil and NGL volume. The remaining 1,598.0 Mbbls increase in 2013 is related to increased development drilling on QEP's existing pre-acquisition acreage.
During the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, Williston Basin production represented 28%, 15%, and 6% of QEP Energy's total production, respectively.
Uinta Basin
In the Uinta Basin, production increased 1% to 27.3 Bcfe during 2014, compared to 2013, due primarily to increased NGL production as a result of recovering ethane throughout the majority of 2014 compared to rejecting ethane in the majority of 2013.
During 2013, production increased 13% to 26.9 Bcfe due to increased drilling activity in the Lower Mesaverde formation in the Red Wash Unit. NGL production increased 92.7 Mbbls during 2013 compared to 2012, primarily as a result of QEP Energy executing a fee-based cryogenic processing agreement with QEP Field Services for a portion of the Red Wash Unit's gas production in mid-2012, which was partially offset by decreased overall NGL production due to ethane rejection throughout the majority of 2013.
During the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, Uinta Basin production represented 8%, 9%, and 7%, respectively, of QEP Energy's total production.
Other Northern
QEP Energy's Other Northern production decreased 11% to 10.6 Bcfe during 2014 compared to 2013, due to declining production from older wells and lack of new drilling.
Other Northern production decreased 13% to 11.9 Bcfe during the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to 2012, due to declining production from older wells and the divestiture of certain of QEP's noncore properties in the Northern Region during 2013.
During the year ended December 31, 2014, Other Northern production represented 3% of QEP Energy's total production, compared to 4% for each of the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012.
Southern Region
Haynesville/Cotton Valley
Production from the Haynesville Shale and Cotton Valley decreased 31% to 49.9 Bcfe during 2014 when compared to 2013. Decreased production was due to declining production as QEP's drilling program remained suspended in the area due to depressed gas prices and QEP's focus on developing more liquids rich areas during 2014.
Production from the Haynesville Shale and Cotton Valley decreased 36% to 72.2 Bcfe during 2013 when compared to 2012. Decreased production was due to the suspension of QEP's drilling program in the area due to depressed gas prices and QEP's focus on developing more liquids rich areas during 2013.
During the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, Haynesville/Cotton Valley's production comprised 15%, 23%, and 35% of QEP Energy's total production, respectively.
Permian Basin
In February 2014, QEP Energy acquired approximately 26,500 net acres of producing and undeveloped oil and gas properties in the Permian Basin. Production from the Permian Basin was 15.8 Bcfe during the period from February 25, 2014, through December 31, 2014, which comprised 5% of QEP Energy's total production.
Midcontinent
Production in the Midcontinent decreased 49% to 28.8 Bcfe during 2014 when compared to 2013, due primarily to the sale of QEP's interest in properties in the Midcontinent area at the end of the second quarter of 2014.
Production in the Midcontinent grew 14% to 56.1 Bcfe during 2013 compared to 2012, driven by a 494.1 Mbbl increase in NGL production and a 4.2 Bcfe increase in gas production offset by decreased oil production of 61.0 Mbbl. The increase in gas and NGL production was driven by several high rate and high working interest well completions in 2013.
During the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, Midcontinent's production represented 9%, 18%, and 15% of QEP Energy's total production, respectively.
Productive Wells
The following table summarizes the Company's productive wells as of December 31, 2014, all of which are located in the U.S.:
____________________________
(1)
As of December 31, 2014, QEP owned interests in 90 gross wells containing multiple completions.
The term "gross" refers to all wells or acreage in which QEP has a partial working interest and the term "net" refers to QEP's ownership represented by that working interest. Although many wells produce both oil and gas, and many gas wells also have allocated NGL volumes from processing, a well is categorized as either a gas or an oil well based upon the ratio of gas to oil produced at the wellhead. Each gross well completed in more than one producing zone is counted as a single well.
The Company also holds numerous overriding royalty interests in oil and gas wells, a portion of which is convertible to working interests after recovery of certain costs by third parties. Once the overriding royalty interests are converted to working interests, these wells are included in the Company's gross and net well count.
Leasehold Acreage
The following table summarizes developed and undeveloped leasehold acreage in which the Company owns a working interest or mineral interest as of December 31, 2014. "Undeveloped Acreage" includes leasehold interests that already may have been classified as containing proved undeveloped reserves and unleased mineral interest acreage owned by the Company. Excluded from the table is acreage in which the Company's interest is limited to royalty, overriding royalty and other similar interests. All leasehold acres are located in the U.S.
____________________________
(1)
Developed acreage is leased acreage assigned to productive wells.
(2)
Undeveloped acreage is leased acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
Expiring Leaseholds
A portion of the leases summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless the leases are renewed or drilling or production has occurred on the acreage subject to the lease prior to that date. Leases held by production remain in effect until production ceases. The following table sets forth the gross and net undeveloped acres subject to leases summarized in the preceding table that will expire during the periods indicated:
Drilling Activity
The following table summarizes the number of development and exploratory wells drilled during the years indicated:
The following table presents operated and non-operated well completions for the year ended December 31, 2014:
The following table presents operated and non-operated wells drilling and waiting on completion at December 31, 2014:
____________________________
(1)
QEP suspends Pinedale completion operations during the coldest months of the winter, generally from December to mid-March.
QEP typically utilizes multi-well pad drilling where practical. Wells drilled are not brought into production until all wells on the pad are drilled and completed and the drilling rig is moved from the location. As a result, QEP had 87 gross operated wells waiting on completion as of December 31, 2014.
Delivery Commitments
QEP Energy is a party to various long-term sales commitments for physical delivery of gas with future firm delivery commitments as follows:
These commitments are physical delivery obligations with prices based on prevailing index prices for gas at the time of delivery. None of these commitments requires the Company to deliver gas produced specifically from any of the Company's properties. The Company believes that its production and reserves are adequate to meet these term sales commitments. If for some reason the Company's gas production is not sufficient to satisfy its firm delivery commitments, the Company believes it can purchase sufficient volumes of gas in the market at index-related prices to satisfy its commitments. See also Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Contractual Cash Obligations and
Other Commitments, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of firm transportation and storage commitments related to gas deliveries.
In addition, none of the Company's production from QEP Energy's owned properties is subject to any priorities, proration or third-party imposed curtailments that may affect quantities delivered to its customers, any priority allocations or price limitations imposed by federal or state regulatory agencies, or any other factors beyond the Company's control that may affect its ability to meet its contractual obligations other than those discussed in Part I, Item 1A - Risk Factors, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Energy Marketing - QEP Marketing and Other
QEP Marketing owns and operates an underground gas storage reservoir in southwestern Wyoming. The reservoir has a gas storage capacity of approximately 8 Bcf, comprised of approximately 4 Bcf of QEP Marketing-owned cushion gas and working gas storage capacity of about 4 Bcf.
In addition, QEP Marketing owns and operates the Haynesville Gathering System, located in Louisiana. The Haynesville Gathering System includes 200 miles of gas gathering facilities with approximate throughput capacity of 2,000 MMcf/d and a treating facility with throughput capacity of 600 MMcf/d and primarily provides services to QEP Energy.
Delivery Commitments
QEP Marketing is a party to various long-term sales commitments for physical delivery of gas with future firm delivery commitments as follows:
These commitments are physical delivery obligations with prices based on prevailing index prices for gas at the time of delivery. Historically, QEP Marketing has materially fulfilled its delivery commitments by purchasing and selling QEP Energy's gas production. The Company believes that QEP Energy's gas production and reserves to be sold to QEP Marketing are adequate to meet these long-term sales commitments. If for some reason QEP Energy's gas production sold to QEP Marketing is not sufficient to satisfy its firm delivery commitments, the Company believes it can purchase sufficient volumes of gas in the market at index-related prices to satisfy its commitments. See also Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commitments, for discussion of firm transportation and storage commitments related to gas deliveries.
ITEM 3.