ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Exploration and Production - QEP Energy
QEP's exploration and production business is conducted through QEP Energy in two core regions - the Northern Region (including the states of Wyoming, Utah, Colorado, New Mexico and North Dakota) and the Southern Region (including the states of Oklahoma, Texas and Louisiana).
Northern Region
Pinedale
In 2005, the Wyoming Oil and Gas Conservation Commission (WOGCC) approved 10-acre density drilling for Lance Pool wells on about 12,700 gross acres (8,091 net acres) of QEP Energy's 17,115 gross acres (11,601 net acres) Pinedale leasehold. In January 2008, the WOGCC approved five-acre density drilling for Lance Pool wells on about 4,200 gross acres (2,677 net acres) of QEP Energy's Pinedale leasehold. On March 13, 2012, the WOGCC approved five-acre density drilling for Lance Pool wells on approximately 7,200 additional gross acres (4,317 net acres). The area approved for increased density corresponds to the currently estimated economic productive limits of QEP Energy core acreage in the field. The top of the Lance Pool tight gas sand reservoir interval ranges from 8,500 to 9,500 feet across QEP Energy's acreage. The Company currently estimates that more than 900 additional wells will be required to fully develop its Pinedale acreage on 5 to 10-acre density. At December 31, 2012, QEP Energy had four operated rigs drilling in the Pinedale Anticline. In addition to QEP Energy's 715 gross producing wells, QEP Energy has an overriding royalty interest only in an additional 21 wells at Pinedale.
Williston Basin
QEP has approximately 117,000 net acres of leaseholds in the Williston Basin in western North Dakota, where the Company is targeting the Bakken and Three Forks formations. During the third quarter of 2012, QEP Energy closed the 2012 Acquisition, which added 27,600 net acres of producing leasehold in the Williston Basin. As a result of the 2012 Acquisition and development drilling on existing acreage, Williston Basin reserves represent 16% of the Company's total reserves. Accordingly, Williston Basin reserves and production are shown separately from Legacy's results in the years presented. The top of the Bakken Formation ranges from approximately 9,500 feet to 10,000 feet across QEP Energy's leasehold. The Three Forks Formation lies approximately 60 to 70 feet below the Middle Bakken Formation and is also a target for horizontal drilling. As of December 31, 2012, QEP Energy had five operated rigs drilling in the Williston Basin.
Uinta Basin
The majority of Uinta Basin proved reserves are found in a series of vertically stacked, laterally discontinuous reservoirs at depths of 4,500 feet to deeper than 18,000 feet. QEP Energy owns working interests in approximately 257,000 net leasehold acres in the Uinta Basin. QEP Energy had three operated rigs drilling in the Uinta Basin at December 31, 2012, two of which were targeting the Lower Mesaverde Formation productive fairway in the Red Wash Unit, in which QEP holds 32,300 net acres, and the other drilling various vertical and horizontal oil targets.
Legacy
The remainder of QEP Energy Northern Region leasehold interests, productive wells and proved reserves are distributed over a number of fields and properties managed as Legacy. Exploration and development activity in 2012 included wells in the Powder River and Greater Green River Basins in Wyoming.
Southern Region
Haynesville/Cotton Valley
QEP Energy has approximately 50,700 net acres of Haynesville Shale leaseholds in northwest Louisiana and additional lease rights that cover the Hosston and Cotton Valley formations. The top of the Haynesville Shale ranges from approximately 10,500 feet to 12,500 feet across QEP Energy's leasehold and is below the Hosston and Cotton Valley formations that QEP Energy has been developing in northwest Louisiana since the 1990's. As of December 31, 2012, due to depressed natural gas prices, QEP Energy did not have any operated rigs drilling in the Haynesville/Cotton Valley area.
Midcontinent
QEP Energy's Midcontinent operations cover all properties in the Southern Region except the Haynesville/Cotton Valley area of northwest Louisiana and are distributed over a large area, including the Anadarko Basin of Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle.
QEP Energy has approximately 76,000 net acres of Woodford "Cana" Shale leaseholds in western Oklahoma. The top of the Woodford Shale ranges from approximately 10,500 feet to 14,500 feet across QEP Energy's leasehold. As of December 31, 2012, QEP Energy had two operated rigs drilling in the Woodford/Cana play.
QEP Energy has approximately 35,000 net acres of Granite Wash/Atoka Wash leaseholds in the Texas Panhandle and western Oklahoma and has been drilling vertical Granite Wash/Atoka Wash wells for over a decade. The top of the Granite Wash/Atoka Wash interval ranges from approximately 11,100 feet to 15,900 feet across QEP Energy's leasehold. In the past few years, QEP and other operators have drilled a number of successful horizontal wells in the Granite Wash/Atoka Wash play but have also drilled some uneconomic wells. As of December 31, 2012, QEP Energy had one rig drilling in oil and liquids-rich gas plays in the Texas Panhandle.
Reserves - QEP Energy
At both December 31, 2012 and 2011, approximately 91% of QEP Energy's estimated proved reserves were Company operated. Proved developed reserves represented 54% of the Company's total proved reserves at both December 31, 2012 and 2011, while the remaining 46% of reserves were classified as proved undeveloped at both December 31, 2012 and 2011. All reported reserves are located in the U.S. QEP Energy does not have any long-term supply contracts with foreign governments, reserves of equity investees or reserves of subsidiaries with a significant minority interest. QEP Energy's estimated proved reserves are summarized as follows:
____________________________
(1)
Oil and NGL are converted to natural gas equivalents at the ratio of one bbl of crude oil, condensate or NGL to six Mcf of equivalent natural gas.
QEP Energy's reserve, production and production life index for each of the years ended December 31, 2010, through December 31, 2012, is summarized below:
____________________________
(1)
Reserve life index is calculated by dividing year-end proved reserves by production for that year.
Proved Reserves
Reserve and related information is presented consistent with the requirements of the SEC's rules for the Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting. These rules expand the use of reliable technologies to estimate and categorize reserves and require the use of the average of the first-of-the-month commodity prices, adjusted for location and quality differentials, for the prior 12 months (unless contractual arrangements designate the price) used to calculate economic producibility of reserves and the discounted cash flows reported as the Standardized Measure of Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Reserves. Refer to Note 17 - Supplemental Gas and Oil Information (unaudited), of in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report for additional information regarding estimates of proved reserves and the preparation of such estimates.
QEP Energy's proved reserves in major operating areas are summarized below:
Estimates of the quantity of proved reserves increased during 2012, primarily related to reserve additions in the Williston and Uinta Basins, offset by decreases in estimated Haynesville/Cotton Valley proved reserves. The increase in Williston Basin reserves was primarily the result of the 2012 Acquisition, while increases in the Uinta Basin were attributable to extensions and additions from the recognition of additional proved undeveloped locations due to QEP's increased drilling program. The Haynesville/Cotton Valley decrease was primarily related to downward pricing related revisions, resulting from lower natural gas prices mostly related to proved undeveloped reserves.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Significant changes to proved undeveloped reserves (PUDs) occurring during 2012, are summarized in the table below:
____________________________
(1)
The decrease was primarily related to downward pricing related revisions for Haynesville/Cotton Valley, resulting from lower natural gas prices.
(2)
All of QEP Energy's PUDs at December 31, 2012, are scheduled to be developed within five years from the date such locations were initially disclosed as PUDs, except for 200 Bcfe of reserves located within the northern portion of the Company's Pinedale Anticline leasehold in western Wyoming. Long-term development of natural gas reserves in Pinedale is governed by the BLM's September 2008, ROD on the FSEIS. Under the ROD, QEP Energy is allowed to drill and complete wells year-round in designated concentrated development areas. The ROD contains additional requirements and restrictions on the sequence of development, which require the Company to develop its leasehold from the south to the north. These restrictions result in protracted, phased development that is beyond the control of the Company. The Company has an ongoing development plan and the financial capability to continue development in the manner estimated.
The costs incurred to continue the development of PUDs were approximately $513.0 million, $533.6 million and $434.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The costs incurred in 2012 related to the drilling of PUDs in QEP's development projects. This investment resulted in the transfer in 2012 of 255.6 Bcfe of reserves from proved undeveloped to proved developed, representing 16% of the Company's total proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2011.
Estimated future development costs relating to the development of PUDs are projected to be approximately $1,042.5 million in 2013, $871.1 million in 2014 and $814.5 million in 2015. Estimated future development costs include capital spending on major development projects, some of which will take several years to complete. PUDs related to major development projects will be reclassified to proved developed reserves when production commences.
Internal Controls Over Proved Reserve Estimates, Technical Qualifications and Technologies Used
Estimates of proved gas and oil reserves have been completed in accordance with professional engineering standards and the Company's established internal controls, which includes the compliance oversight of a multi-functional reserves review committee reporting to the Company's Board of Directors. We retained Ryder Scott Company, independent oil and gas reserve evaluation engineering consultants ("Ryder Scott"), to prepare the estimates of 100% of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. The individual at Ryder Scott who was responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserve estimates as of December 31, 2012, is a registered Professional Engineer in the State of Colorado and graduated with a Masters of Science degree in Geological Engineering from the University of Missouri at Rolla in 1976. The individual has over thirty years experience in the Petroleum Industry, including experience estimating and evaluating petroleum reserves. A more detailed letter of the individual's professional qualifications has been filed as part of Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The individual at QEP Resources responsible for insuring the accuracy of the reserve estimate preparation material provided to Ryder Scott and reviewing the estimates of reserves received from Ryder Scott is our Chief Engineer. This individual is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and graduated with a Bachelors of Science degree in Geological Engineering from South Dakota School of Mines and Technology in 1979. He is a registered Professional Petroleum Engineer in the state of Colorado. This individual has over 30 years experience in the Petroleum Industry, including more than 20 years reservoir engineering experience in most of the active domestic basins in the U.S.
To establish reserves, the SEC allows a company to use technologies that have been proved effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that have been field tested and have been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. A variety of methodologies were used to determine our proved reserve estimates. The principal methodologies employed are performance, analogy, volumetric methods or a combination of methods.
All of the proved producing reserves attributable to producing wells and/or reservoirs were estimated by performance methods. Performance methods include, but may not be limited to, decline curve analysis, which utilized extrapolations of historical production data available through December 2012 in those cases where such data were considered to be definitive. For wells currently on production, forecasts of future production rates are based on historical performance data. If no production decline trend has been established, future production rates were held constant, or adjusted for the effects of curtailment where appropriate, until a decline in ability to produce was anticipated. An estimated rate of decline was then applied to depletion of the reserves. If a decline trend has been established, this trend was used as the basis for estimating future production rates.
Approximately 99% of QEP's proved developed non-producing and undeveloped reserves included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K were estimated by analogy. The remaining one percent of such reserves were estimated by the volumetric method. The volumetric analysis utilized pertinent well data furnished to Ryder Scott by QEP or obtained from available public data sources through December 2012. Test data and other related information were used to estimate the anticipated initial production rates for those wells or locations that are not currently producing. For reserves not yet on production, sales were estimated to commence at an anticipated date furnished by QEP. Wells or locations that are not currently producing may start producing earlier or later than anticipated in these estimates due to unforeseen factors causing a change in the timing to initiate production. Such factors may include delays due to weather, the availability of rigs, the sequence of drilling, completing and/or recompleting wells and/or constraints set by regulatory bodies. The future production rates from wells currently on production or wells or locations that are not currently producing may be more or less than estimated because of changes including, but not limited to, reservoir performance, operating conditions related to surface facilities, compression and artificial lift, pipeline capacity and/or operating conditions, producing market demand and/or allowables or other constraints set by regulatory bodies. Some combination of these methods is used to determine reserve estimates in substantially all of QEP's fields.
Refer to Note 17 - Supplemental Gas and Oil Information (Unaudited), of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information pertaining to QEP Energy's proved reserves as of the end of each of the last three years.
In addition to this filing, QEP Energy will file reserves estimates as of December 31, 2012, with the Energy Information Administration of the Department of Energy on Form EIA-23. Although QEP uses the same technical and economic assumptions when it prepares the EIA-23 as used to estimate reserves for this Annual Report on Form 10-K, it is obligated to report reserves for only wells it operates, not for all of the wells in which it has an interest, and to include the reserves attributable to other owners in such wells.
Production, Production Prices and Production Costs
The following table sets forth the net production volumes, the field-level prices per Mcf of natural gas, per bbl of oil and per bbl of NGL produced, and the operating expenses per Mcfe for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010:
____________________________
(1) The average field-level price does not include the impact of settled commodity price derivatives.
A summary of natural gas production by major geographical area is shown in the following table:
A summary of oil production by major geographical area is shown in the following table:
A summary of NGL production by major geographical area is shown in the following table:
A summary of natural gas equivalent total production by major geographical area is shown in the following table:
Northern Region
Pinedale
Net production from the Pinedale Anticline, located in western Wyoming, grew 26% to 99.7 Bcfe during 2012, compared to the year earlier. Net production from Pinedale grew 16% to 79.4 Bcfe during 2011, compared to a year earlier. Pinedale production growth in 2012 and 2011 was driven by increased drilling activity over that period and the fee-based processing agreement at Blacks Fork II entered into in the third quarter of 2011 between QEP Energy and QEP Field Services. As a result of the processing agreement, QEP Energy's NGL production at Pinedale during 2012, was 3,054.3 Mbbl, contrasted with 1,099.6
Mbbl in the comparable 2011 period. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, Pinedale's production represented 31%, 29% and 30% of QEP Energy's total production, respectively.
Williston Basin
In the Williston Basin, production increased 186% to 20.3 Bcfe during 2012, from the year earlier, and increased 145% during 2011, compared to 2010, due to increased oil-directed drilling activity in the basin. In addition, the 2012 Acquisition contributed 5.2 Bcfe of increased production in the fourth quarter 2012. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, Williston Basin production represented 6%, 3% and 1% of QEP Energy's total production, respectively.
Uinta Basin
In the Uinta Basin, which is located in eastern Utah, production increased 15% to 23.9 Bcfe during 2012 due to increased drilling activity in the Lower Mesaverde formation in the Red Wash Unit. NGL production increased 264.7 Mbbl during 2012 compared to 2011, primarily as a result of QEP Energy executing a cryogenic, fee-based processing agreement with QEP Field Services for a portion of the Red Wash Unit's natural gas production in mid-2012. During 2011, production decreased 3% from decreased drilling activity, despite a first quarter 2011 prior-period adjustment of QEP's ownership interest within a federal unit participating area, which resulted in a positive adjustment to reported volumes of 1.6 Bcfe. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, Uinta Basin production represented 7%, 8%, and 9%, respectively, of QEP Energy's total production.
Legacy
QEP Energy's Legacy properties include all Northern Region Rockies properties except those at Pinedale, the Williston Basin and the Uinta Basin. Legacy's net production during 2012, decreased 4% to 13.7 Bcfe and decreased 10% during the year ended December 31, 2011. The decreased production was primarily due to declining production on older wells partially offset by drilling activity in the Powder River Basin. During both the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, Legacy's production represented 4% of QEP Energy's total production and 7% during the year ended December 31, 2010.
Southern Region
Haynesville/Cotton Valley
Net production from the Haynesville Shale and Cotton Valley's tight sand gas plays in northwest Louisiana increased 4% to 112.3 Bcfe during 2012 when compared to 2011. The increase in 2012 was due to the completion of several high-rate wells in early 2012 that were drilled during the latter half of 2011. QEP Energy has discontinued operated development drilling in the Haynesville Shale and Cotton Valley's tight sand gas plays in response to depressed natural gas prices. QEP Energy expects production from the Haynesville/Cotton Valley to continue to decline from its peak in the second quarter of 2012 as the last operated rig was released in July 2012. In addition, the completion of five wells that were drilled and cased in 2012 were completed in January 2013. Net production in the Haynesville/Cotton Valley area grew 35% to 107.5 Bcfe during 2011 compared to 2010, due to the Company's active drilling in the play in 2011. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, Haynesville/Cotton Valley's production comprised 35%, 39% and 35% of QEP Energy's total production, respectively.
Midcontinent
Net production in the Midcontinent grew 7% to 49.3 Bcfe during 2012 compared to 2011, driven by a 65% increase in crude oil production and an 18% increase in NGL production. Net production in the Midcontinent grew 14% to 46.2 Bcfe during 2011 compared to 2010. Midcontinent production growth in 2012 and 2011 was driven by the continued development of the Granite Wash, Marmaton and Tonkawa plays in Texas and western Oklahoma and the Woodford "Cana" Shale liquids-rich gas play in the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, Midcontinent's production represented 15%, 17% and 18% of QEP Energy's total production, respectively.
Productive Wells
The following table summarizes the Company's productive wells as of December 31, 2012, all of which are located in the U.S.:
The term "gross" refers to all wells or acreage in which QEP has at least a partial working interest and the term "net" refers to QEP's ownership represented by that working interest. Although many wells produce both natural gas and oil, and many natural gas wells also have allocated NGL volumes from processing, a well is categorized as either a natural gas or an oil well based upon the ratio of gas to oil produced at the wellhead. Each gross well completed in more than one producing zone is counted as a single well. At December 31, 2012, the Company had 77 gross wells with completions in more than one reservoir.
The Company also holds numerous overriding royalty interests in oil and gas wells, a portion of which are convertible to working interests after recovery of certain costs by third parties. Once the overriding royalty interest are converted to working interests, these wells are included in the Company's gross and net well count.
Leasehold Acreage
The following table summarizes developed and undeveloped leasehold acreage in which the Company owns a working interest or mineral interest as of December 31, 2012. "Undeveloped Acreage" includes leasehold interests that already may have been classified as containing proved undeveloped reserves and unleased mineral interest acreage owned by the Company. Excluded from the table is acreage in which the Company's interest is limited to royalty, overriding royalty and other similar interests. All leasehold acres are located in the U.S.
____________________________
(1)
Developed acreage is leased acreage assigned to productive wells.
(2)
Undeveloped acreage is leased acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of natural gas and oil regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
Expiring Leaseholds
A portion of the leases summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless the leases are renewed or drilling or production has occurred on the acreage subject to the lease prior to that date. Leases held by production remain in effect until production ceases. The following table sets forth the gross and net undeveloped acres subject to leases summarized in the preceding table that will expire during the periods indicated:
Drilling Activity
The following table summarizes the number of development and exploratory wells drilled during the years indicated:
____________________________
(1)
Due to the 2012 Acquisition, the Company began breaking out the results of Williston Basin from Legacy in 2012. The Legacy well totals for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, include the total development and exploratory wells drilled in the Williston Basin.
The following table presents operated and non-operated well completions for the year ended December 31, 2012:
The following table presents operated and non-operated wells drilling and waiting on completion at December 31, 2012:
____________________________
(1)
QEP suspends Pinedale completion operations during the coldest months of the winter, generally from December to mid-March.
Delivery Commitments
The Company sells NGL under a term sales agreement that contains a delivery commitment for 8,500 barrels per day of NGL extracted at several of QEP Field Services' gas processing facilities in the Northern Region. The agreement, which was effective May 1, 2010, extends for a period of seven years and contains terms and conditions customary for an agreement of this type in the oil and gas industry. The Company believes that the reserves dedicated to its gas processing facilities and projected processing volumes are adequate to satisfy its delivery commitments under this agreement.
The Company is a party to various long-term sales commitments for physical delivery of natural gas with future firm delivery commitments as follows:
These commitments are physical delivery obligations with prices related to the prevailing index prices for natural gas at the time of delivery. None of these commitments require the Company to deliver natural gas produced specifically from any of the Company's properties. The Company believes that its production and reserves are adequate to meet these term sales commitments. If for some reason the Company's natural gas production is not sufficient to satisfy its term sales commitments, the Company believes it can purchase sufficient volumes of natural gas in the market at index-related prices to satisfy its
commitments. See also Item 7 "Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commitments" for discussion of firm transportation and storage commitments related to natural gas deliveries.
In addition, none of the Company's production from QEP Energy's owned properties is subject to any priorities, proration or third-party imposed curtailments that may affect quantities delivered to its customers, any priority allocations or price limitations imposed by federal or state regulatory agencies, or any other factors beyond the Company's control that may affect its ability to meet its contractual obligations other than those discussed in Item 1A - Risk Factors, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Midstream Field Services - QEP Field Services
QEP Field Services owns 1,950 miles of gathering lines in Utah, Wyoming, Colorado, Louisiana and North Dakota. At December 31, 2012, QEP Field Services owns six processing plants, which extract NGL from the natural gas stream and have an aggregate capacity of 1.37 Bcf per day of unprocessed natural gas. In addition, QEP Field Services owns treating facilities in northwest Louisiana which remove impurities from the natural gas stream and have an aggregate capacity of 600 MMcf per day of untreated natural gas. QEP Field Services also owns compression facilities and field dehydration and measurement systems. The 21-mile, 20-inch diameter pipeline owned by Rendezvous Pipeline can deliver up to 300 MMcf of natural gas per day to the Kern River Pipeline. QEP Field Services' partnership facilities include the RGS system, consisting of 300 miles of gathering lines and associated field equipment, the UBFS system, which consists of 78 miles of gathering lines and associated field equipment, and the Three Rivers system, which consists of 52 miles of gathering lines and associated field equipment. QEP Field Services Company owns a 60 mile crude oil pipeline regulated by FERC under the ICA.
In February 2013, QEP Field Services put into service the 150 MMcf per day cryogenic Iron Horse II processing plant, an expansion of its Stagecoach and Iron Horse processing complex in the Uinta Basin of eastern Utah. The plant predominantly provides fee-based processing services to third parties and affiliates.
Energy Marketing - QEP Marketing
QEP Marketing owns and operates an underground gas storage reservoir in southwestern Wyoming. The reservoir has a gas storage capacity of approximately 8 Bcf, comprised of an inventory of approximately 4 Bcf of QEP Marketing-owned cushion gas and working gas storage capacity of about 4 Bcf.
ITEM 3.