ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Exploration and Production - QEP Energy
QEP's exploration and production business is conducted through QEP Energy in two regions - the Northern Region (including the states of Wyoming, North Dakota, Utah and Colorado) and the Southern Region (including the states of Texas and Louisiana).
Northern Region
Pinedale
QEP Energy's largest property, in terms of proved reserves, is Pinedale, where the Company is actively developing the Lance Pool, which is a tight gas sand reservoir. The depth to the top of the Lance Pool reservoir ranges from 8,500 to 9,500 feet across QEP Energy's leasehold. The Company currently estimates that there are up to approximately 250 additional wells required to fully develop its Pinedale acreage on 5 to 10-acre density. On December 31, 2015, QEP Energy had three operated rigs drilling on the Pinedale Anticline. The Company has been successful in reducing development well costs and increasing production at Pinedale. Included in QEP Energy's 1,071 gross producing wells at Pinedale are 69 wells in which QEP Energy has a small overriding royalty interest.
Williston Basin
QEP Energy is actively developing the Bakken and Three Forks formations in the Williston Basin. The depth to the top of the Bakken Formation ranges from approximately 9,500 feet to 10,000 feet across QEP Energy's leasehold. Multiple benches of the Three Forks formation are approximately 60 to 70 feet below the Middle Bakken formation and are also targets for horizontal drilling. The Company has been successful in reducing development well costs, de-risking unproven reserves, increasing production, increasing the number of future drilling locations and increasing its estimate of recoverable reserves. As of December 31, 2015, QEP Energy had three operated rigs drilling in the Williston Basin.
Uinta Basin
The majority of the Uinta Basin's proved reserves are found in a series of vertically stacked, laterally discontinuous reservoirs at depths of 4,500 feet to deeper than 17,000 feet. QEP Energy had one operated rig drilling in the Uinta Basin at December 31, 2015, targeting the Lower Mesaverde Formation in which QEP Energy holds acreage in the Red Wash Unit and South Red Wash Unit.
Other Northern
The remainder of QEP Energy's Northern Region leasehold interests and proved reserves are distributed over a number of fields and properties.
Southern Region
Permian Basin
QEP Energy is developing oil producing zones in the Wolfcamp and Spraberry formations to vertical depths of 10,000 to 12,000 feet in the Permian Basin. In 2015, QEP transitioned to exclusively drilling horizontal wells. The Company has been successful in reducing development well costs and increasing production. As of December 31, 2015, QEP Energy had two operated rigs drilling in the Permian Basin.
Haynesville/Cotton Valley
QEP Energy holds producing and undeveloped properties in the Haynesville Shale play in northwestern Louisiana and additional lease rights that cover the Hosston and Cotton Valley formations. The top of the Haynesville Shale ranges from approximately 10,500 feet to 12,500 feet across QEP Energy's leasehold and is deeper than the Hosston and Cotton Valley formations that QEP Energy has been developing in northwest Louisiana since the 1990's. As of December 31, 2015, QEP Energy did not have any operated rigs drilling in the Haynesville/Cotton Valley area, however, there were six gross non-operated wells waiting on completion as of December 31, 2015.
Midcontinent
QEP Energy's Midcontinent operations cover all properties in the Southern Region except the Haynesville/Cotton Valley area of northwestern Louisiana and the Permian Basin properties in west Texas and are widely distributed. QEP sold the majority of its Midcontinent properties in 2014, including its properties in the Woodford "Cana" Shale in western Oklahoma, Granite Wash/Atoka Wash in the Texas panhandle and western Oklahoma and has continued to divest other non-core properties within this area throughout 2015. As of December 31, 2015, QEP Energy did not have any operated rigs drilling in the Midcontinent area.
Reserves - QEP Energy
At December 31, 2015 and 2014, QEP Energy's estimated proved reserves were approximately 3,620.2 Bcfe and 3,931.9 Bcfe, respectively, of which 96% and 93%, respectively, were Company operated. Proved developed reserves represented 58% and 56% of the Company's total proved reserves at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, while the remaining reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. All reported reserves are located in the United States. QEP Energy does not have any long-term supply contracts with foreign governments, reserves of equity investees or reserves of subsidiaries with a significant minority interest. QEP Energy's estimated proved reserves are summarized in the table below:
____________________________
(1)
Oil and NGL are converted to natural gas equivalents at the ratio of one barrel of crude oil, condensate or NGL to six Mcf of equivalent natural gas.
QEP Energy's reserve, production and production life index for each of the years ended December 31, 2013, through December 31, 2015, are summarized in the table below:
____________________________
(1)
Reserve life index is calculated by dividing year-end proved reserves by production for that year.
Proved Reserves
Reserve and related information is presented consistent with the requirements of the SEC's rules for the Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting. These rules expand the use of reliable technologies to estimate and categorize reserves and require the use of the average of the first-of-the-month commodity prices, adjusted for location and quality differentials, for the prior 12 months (unless contractual arrangements designate the price) to calculate economic producibility of reserves and the discounted cash flows reported as the Standardized Measure of Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Reserves. Refer to Note 16 - Supplemental Oil and Gas Information (unaudited), in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding estimates of proved reserves and the preparation of such estimates.
QEP Energy's proved reserves in major operating areas are summarized in the table below:
Estimates of the quantity of proved reserves decreased during 2015 primarily due to lower gas, oil, and NGL prices. Other factors impacting this decrease include operating in ethane rejection in Pinedale and in the Uinta Basin, as well as decreases in estimated proved reserves in Pinedale and Haynesville/Cotton Valley as a result of fewer PUD locations. These proved reserve decreases were partially offset by extensions and additions in the Williston, Uinta, and Permian basins from the recognition of additional PUD locations due to the increased drilling program.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Significant changes to PUD reserves that occurred during 2015 are summarized in the table below:
____________________________
(1)
Revisions of previous estimates in 2015 include: 514.2 Bcfe of negative revisions due to lower pricing and 303.7 Bcfe of negative revisions unrelated to pricing, partially offset by 39.0 Bcfe of positive performance revisions. Negative pricing revisions were driven by lower gas, oil and NGL prices. Negative other revisions were primarily the result of slowing the pace of planned drilling activity and operating in ethane rejection in Pinedale and the Uinta Basin.
(2)
The increase in reserves due to extensions and discoveries in 2015 was comprised of 325.8 Bcfe in the Williston Basin, 300.6 Bcfe in the Uinta Basin, 242.1 Bcfe in the Permian Basin, 45.9 Bcfe in Pinedale, and 31.0 Bcfe in Haynesville/Cotton Valley. Extensions and discoveries relate to new PUD locations driven by drilling activity in 2015, as well as new compression projections in Pinedale.
(3)
Purchase of reserves in place in 2015 related to the acquisition of additional interests in QEP's operated wells in the Williston Basin as discussed in Note 2 - Acquisitions and Divestitures, in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(4)
All of QEP Energy's PUD reserves at December 31, 2015, are scheduled to be developed within five years from the date such locations were initially disclosed as PUD reserves; however, long-term development of gas reserves in Pinedale is governed by the BLM's September 2008 ROD on the FSEIS. Under the ROD, QEP Energy is allowed to drill and complete wells year-round in designated concentrated development areas. The ROD contains additional requirements and restrictions on the sequence of development, which requires the Company to develop its leasehold from the south to the north. These restrictions result in protracted, phased development that is beyond the control of the Company. The Company has an ongoing development plan and the financial capability to continue development in the manner estimated. Additionally, QEP Energy plans to develop its PUD reserves prior to lease expiration or extend the term of the lease.
The costs incurred to continue the development of PUD reserves were approximately $811.3 million, $796.7 million, and $645.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The costs incurred in 2015 related to the drilling of PUD locations in QEP's operating areas. This investment resulted in the transfer of 397.5 Bcfe of PUD reserves to proved developed reserves in 2015, representing 23% of the Company's total PUD reserves as of December 31, 2014.
QEP estimates that its future development costs relating to the development of PUD reserves are approximately $438.9 million in 2016, $472.8 million in 2017, and $306.8 million in 2018. The scheduled PUD development costs are reduced from historical levels in conjunction with our efforts to reduce drilling and completion activities, gain operational efficiencies, slow production growth and preserve liquidity in the current commodity price environment. Estimated future development costs include capital spending on major development projects, some of which will take several years to complete. QEP believes cash flow from operations, cash on hand and availability under its credit facility will be sufficient to cover these estimated future development costs. PUD reserves related to major development projects will be reclassified to proved developed reserves when production commences.
Internal Controls Over Proved Reserve Estimates, Technical Qualifications and Technologies Used
Estimates of proved oil and gas reserves have been completed in accordance with professional engineering standards and the Company's established internal controls, which includes the compliance oversight of a multi-functional reserves review committee reporting to the Company's Board of Directors. The Company retained Ryder Scott Company (RSC) and DeGolyer and MacNaughton (D&M), independent oil and gas reserve evaluation engineering consultants, to prepare the estimates of 100% of its proved reserves as of December 31, 2015 and 2014. RSC prepared approximately 90% and D&M prepared approximately 10% of the Company's total estimated net proved reserves as of December 31, 2015. RSC prepared approximately 91% and D&M prepared approximately 9% of the Company's total net proved reserves as of December 31, 2014. The Company utilized RSC to prepare the estimates of 100% of the Company's total net proved reserves as of December 31, 2013.
The individual at RSC who was responsible for overseeing the preparation of QEP's reserve estimates as of December 31, 2015, for its Haynesville, Pinedale, Williston, Other Northern, Uinta and Midcontinent areas, is a registered Professional Engineer in the State of Colorado and graduated with a Masters of Science degree in Geological Engineering from the University of Missouri at Rolla in 1976. The individual has over 30 years of experience in the petroleum industry, including experience estimating and evaluating petroleum reserves. The individual at D&M who was responsible for overseeing the preparation of QEP’s Permian Division reserves estimates as of December 31, 2015, is a registered Professional Engineer in the State of Texas and graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Texas at Austin in 1984. The individual has over 31 years of experience in the petroleum industry, including experience estimating and evaluating petroleum reserves. A more detailed letter including each individual's professional qualifications has been filed as part of Exhibit 99.1 to this report for RSC and as part of Exhibit 99.2 for D&M.
The individual at QEP responsible for insuring the accuracy of the reserve estimate preparation material provided to RSC and D&M and reviewing the estimates of reserves received from RSC and D&M is QEP's Chief Engineer. This individual is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and graduated with a Bachelors of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from North Dakota State University in 1994. This individual has over 21 years of experience in the petroleum industry, including more than 16 years reservoir engineering experience in most of the active domestic basins in the U.S.
To estimate proved reserves, the SEC allows a company to use technologies that have been proved effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that have been field tested and have been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. A variety of methodologies were used to determine QEP's proved reserve estimates. The principal methodologies employed are performance, analogy, volumetric methods or a combination of methods.
All of the proved producing reserves attributable to producing wells and/or reservoirs were estimated by performance methods. Performance methods include, but may not be limited to, decline curve analysis, which utilized extrapolations of historical production data available through late 2015, in those cases where such data were considered to be definitive. For wells currently in production, forecasts of future production rates are based on historical performance data. If no production decline trend has been established, future production rates were held constant, or adjusted for the effects of curtailment where appropriate, until a decline in ability to produce was anticipated. An estimated rate of decline was then applied to depletion of the reserves. If a decline trend has been established, this trend was used as the basis for estimating future production rates.
Approximately 93% of QEP's proved developed non-producing and undeveloped reserves included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K were estimated by analogy to offset producing wells. The remaining 7% of such reserves was estimated by the volumetric method. The volumetric analysis utilizes pertinent well data furnished to RSC and D&M by QEP or obtained from available public data sources through late 2015. Test data and other related information were used to estimate the anticipated initial production rates for those wells or locations that are not currently producing. For reserves not yet in production, sales were estimated to commence at an anticipated date furnished by QEP. Wells or locations that are not currently producing may start producing earlier or later than anticipated in these estimates due to unforeseen factors causing a change in the timing to initiate production. Such factors may include delays due to weather, the availability of rigs, the sequence of drilling, completing and/or recompleting wells and/or constraints set by regulatory bodies. The future production rates from wells currently on production or wells or locations that are not currently producing may be more or less than estimated because of changes including, but not limited to, reservoir performance, operating conditions related to surface facilities, compression and artificial lift, pipeline capacity and/or operating conditions, market demand and/or allowables or other constraints set by regulatory bodies. Some combination of these methods is used to determine reserve estimates in substantially all of QEP's fields.
Refer to Note 16 - Supplemental Oil and Gas Information (unaudited) of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information pertaining to QEP Energy's proved reserves as of the end of each of the last three years.
In addition to this filing, QEP Energy will file reserve estimates as of December 31, 2015, with the Energy Information Administration of the Department of Energy (EIA) on Form EIA-23. Although QEP uses the same technical and economic assumptions when it prepares the Form EIA-23 as used to estimate reserves for this Annual Report on Form 10-K, it is obligated to report to the EIA reserves for only wells it operates, not for all of the wells in which it has an interest, and to include the reserves attributable to other owners in such wells.
Production, Prices and Production Costs - QEP Energy
The following table sets forth the net production volumes and field-level prices of gas, oil and NGL produced, and the related operating expenses, for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013:
____________________________
(1)
The average field-level price does not include the impact of settled commodity price derivatives.
A summary of gas production by major geographical area is shown in the following table:
A summary of oil production by major geographical area is shown in the following table:
A summary of NGL production by major geographical area is shown in the following table:
A summary of natural gas equivalent total production by major geographical area is shown in the following table:
A regional comparison of average field-level prices and average production costs per Mcfe is shown in the following table:
Northern Region
Pinedale
Production from Pinedale increased 2% to 101.0 Bcfe during 2015 compared to 2014. This increase in production was primarily a result of increased gas production due to continued net well completions in 2014 and 2015 and better performing well completions from the new wells drilled in 2015. This increase was mostly offset by a decrease in NGL production due to operating in ethane rejection throughout the majority of 2015 compared to ethane recovery in 2014.
Production from Pinedale increased 4% to 98.9 Bcfe during 2014 compared to 2013. This increase in production was primarily a result of increased NGL production due to recovering ethane throughout the majority of 2014 compared to rejecting ethane throughout the majority of 2013.
During each of the three years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, Pinedale's production represented 31% of QEP Energy's total production.
Williston Basin
In the Williston Basin, production increased 23% to 112.3 Bcfe during 2015 compared to 2014, due to increased oil, gas and NGL production. The increase in production volumes was primarily attributable to continued development drilling and completion activity.
During 2014, production increased 94% to 91.4 Bcfe, compared to 2013, primarily due to increased oil and NGL production. The increase in production volumes was primarily attributable to ongoing development of the properties acquired in the Williston Basin in 2012, which contributed 6,347.5 Mbbls of increased oil and NGL volume. The remaining 377.7 Mbbls increase in 2014 related to increased development drilling on QEP's existing pre-acquisition acreage.
During the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, Williston Basin production represented 34%, 28%, and 15%, respectively, of QEP Energy's total production.
Uinta Basin
In the Uinta Basin, production increased 8% to 29.5 Bcfe during 2015 compared to 2014, due primarily to increased gas production due to new Lower Mesaverde well completions in 2015, partially offset by a decrease in NGL production due to operating in ethane rejection throughout the majority of 2015 compared to ethane recovery in 2014.
During 2014, production increased 1% to 27.3 Bcfe, compared to 2013, due primarily to increased NGL production as a result of recovering ethane throughout the majority of 2014 compared to rejecting ethane in the majority of 2013.
During the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, Uinta Basin production represented 9%, 8%, and 9%, respectively, of QEP Energy's total production.
Other Northern
QEP Energy's Other Northern production remained flat during 2015 compared to 2014, due to a slight increase in gas production, primarily from 4.0 net well completions, offset by a slight decrease in oil production.
Other Northern production decreased 11% to 10.6 Bcfe during 2014 compared to 2013, due to declining production from older wells and lack of new drilling.
During the years ended December 31, 2015, and 2014, Other Northern production represented 3% of QEP Energy's total production, compared to 4% for the year ended December 31, 2013.
Southern Region
Haynesville/Cotton Valley
Production from the Haynesville Shale and Cotton Valley decreased 13% to 43.6 Bcfe during 2015 when compared to 2014. Decreased production was due to natural decline and the continued suspension of QEP's operated drilling program, partially offset by 3.2 net non-operated well completions in 2015.
Production from the Haynesville Shale and Cotton Valley decreased 31% to 49.9 Bcfe during 2014 when compared to 2013. Decreased production was due to natural decline and the continued suspension of QEP's operated drilling program.
During the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, Haynesville/Cotton Valley's production comprised 13%, 15%, and 23%, respectively, of QEP Energy's total production.
Permian Basin
In February 2014, QEP Energy acquired approximately 26,500 net acres of producing and undeveloped oil and gas properties in the Permian Basin. Production from the Permian Basin increased 65% to 26.0 Bcfe during 2015 when compared to 2014, due to increased horizontal well development combined with a full year of production in 2015 compared to 10 months of production in 2014.
During the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, Permian Basin production represented 9% and 5%, respectively, of QEP Energy's total production.
Midcontinent
Production in the Midcontinent decreased 87% to 3.8 Bcfe during 2015 when compared to 2014, due to divestitures of non-core properties in the second and fourth quarters of 2014.
Production in the Midcontinent decreased 49% to 28.8 Bcfe during 2014 compared to 2013, due to divestitures of non-core properties at the end of the second quarter of 2014.
During the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, Midcontinent production represented 1%, 9%, and 18% of QEP Energy's total production, respectively.
Productive Wells
The following table summarizes the Company's productive wells as of December 31, 2015, all of which are located in the U.S.:
____________________________
(1)
Gross productive wells includes 69 wells in which QEP only owns a small overriding royalty interest.
Although many wells produce both oil and gas, and many gas wells also have allocated NGL volumes from processing, a well is categorized as either a gas or an oil well based upon the ratio of gas to oil produced at the wellhead. Each well completed in more than one producing zone is counted as a single well.
The Company also holds numerous overriding royalty interests in oil and gas wells, a portion of which is convertible to working interests after recovery of certain costs by third parties. Once the overriding royalty interests are converted to working interests, these wells are included in the Company's gross and net well count.
Leasehold Acreage
The following table summarizes developed and undeveloped leasehold acreage in which the Company owns a working interest or mineral interest as of December 31, 2015. "Undeveloped Acreage" includes leasehold interests that already may have been classified as containing proved undeveloped reserves and unleased mineral interest acreage owned by the Company. Excluded from the table is acreage in which the Company's interest is limited to royalty, overriding royalty and other similar interests. All leasehold acres are located in the U.S.
____________________________
(1)
Developed acreage is leased acreage assigned to productive wells.
(2)
Undeveloped acreage is leased acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
Expiring Leaseholds
A portion of the leases summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless the leases are renewed or drilling or production has occurred on the acreage subject to the lease prior to that date. Leases held by production remain in effect until production ceases. The following table sets forth the gross and net undeveloped acres subject to leases summarized in the preceding table that will expire during the periods indicated:
Drilling Activity
The following table summarizes the number of development and exploratory wells drilled (defined to include the number of wells completed at any time during the applicable year, regardless of when the drilling was initiated) during the years indicated:
The following table presents operated and non-operated well completions for the year ended December 31, 2015:
____________________________
(1)
Gross completions includes eight wells for the year ended December 31, 2015, in which QEP only owns a small overriding royalty interest.
(2)
Operated completions include eight gross, 7.4 net, vertical wells for the year ended December 31, 2015.
The following table presents operated and non-operated wells drilling and waiting on completion at December 31, 2015:
QEP typically utilizes multi-well pad drilling where practical. Wells drilled are not brought into production until all wells on the pad are drilled and completed and the drilling rig is moved from the location. In certain properties in the Northern Region, QEP typically suspends completion activities due to adverse weather conditions in the fourth quarter and resumes completion in the first quarter as weather conditions allow. As a result, QEP had 54 gross operated wells waiting on completion as of December 31, 2015.
Energy Marketing - QEP Marketing and Other
QEP Marketing owns and operates an underground gas storage reservoir in southwestern Wyoming (Clear Creek). Clear Creek has capacity of approximately 8 Bcf, comprised of approximately 4 Bcf of QEP Marketing-owned cushion gas and working gas storage capacity of about 4 Bcf.
In addition, QEP Marketing owns a membership interest in a gas gathering system located in Louisiana (Haynesville Gathering). Haynesville Gathering includes 200 miles of gas gathering facilities with approximate throughput capacity of 2,000 MMcf/d and a treating facility with throughput capacity of 600 MMcf/d. The system primarily provides services to QEP Energy.
Delivery Commitments - QEP Resources
QEP is a party to various long-term sales commitments for physical delivery of gas with future firm delivery commitments as follows:
These commitments are physical delivery obligations with prices based on prevailing index prices for gas at the time of delivery. None of these commitments requires the Company to deliver gas produced specifically from any of the Company's properties. The Company believes that its production and reserves should be adequate to meet these term sales commitments. If for some reason the Company's gas production is not sufficient to satisfy its firm delivery commitments, the Company believes it can purchase sufficient volumes of gas in the market at index-related prices to satisfy its commitments. See also Part II, Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commitments, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of firm transportation and storage commitments related to gas deliveries.
In addition, at December 31, 2015, the Company did not have a significant amount of production from QEP Energy's owned properties that was subject to priorities, proration or third-party imposed curtailments that may affect quantities delivered to its customers, priority allocations or price limitations imposed by federal or state regulatory agencies, or any other factors beyond the Company's control that may affect its ability to meet its contractual obligations other than those discussed in Part I, Item 1A - Risk Factors, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
ITEM 3.