ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
QEP’s exploration and production business is conducted through QEP Energy in two core regions - the Northern Region (including the states of Wyoming, Utah, Colorado, New Mexico and North Dakota) and the Southern Region (including the states of Oklahoma, Texas and Louisiana).
Southern Region
Haynesville/Cotton Valley
QEP Energy has approximately 50,800 net acres of Haynesville Shale lease rights in northwest Louisiana and additional lease rights that cover the Hosston and Cotton Valley formations. The depth of the top of the Haynesville Shale ranges from approximately 10,500 feet to 12,500 feet across QEP Energy’s leasehold and is below the Hosston and Cotton Valley formations that QEP Energy has been developing in northwest Louisiana for over a decade. As of December 31, 2011, QEP Energy had three operated rigs drilling in the project area.
Midcontinent
QEP Energy’s Midcontinent properties cover all properties in the Southern Region except the Haynesville/Cotton Valley area of northwest Louisiana and are distributed over a large area, including the Anadarko Basin of Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle.
QEP Energy has approximately 77,000 net acres of Woodford Shale lease rights in western Oklahoma. The true vertical depth to the top of the Woodford Shale ranges from approximately 10,500 feet to 14,500 feet across QEP Energy’s leasehold. As of December 31, 2011, QEP Energy had two operated rigs drilling in the project.
QEP Energy has approximately 38,700 net acres of Granite Wash/Atoka Wash lease rights in the Texas Panhandle and western Oklahoma and has been drilling vertical Granite Wash/Atoka Wash wells for over a decade. The true vertical depth to the top of the Granite Wash/Atoka Wash interval ranges from approximately 11,100 feet to 15,900 feet across QEP Energy’s leasehold. In the past few years, QEP and other operators have drilled a number of successful horizontal wells in the Granite Wash/Atoka Wash play but have also drilled some wells with disappointing results. As of December 31, 2011, QEP Energy did not have any rigs drilling in the Granite Wash/Atoka Wash. In addition to its operated drilling programs, QEP Energy receives and participates in a large number of outside-operated well proposals.
Northern Region
Pinedale Anticline
In 2005, the Wyoming Oil and Gas Conservation Commission (WOGCC) approved 10 acre density drilling for Lance Pool wells on about 12,700 acres of QEP Energy’s 17,872 acre (gross) Pinedale leasehold. The area approved for increased density corresponds to the currently estimated productive limits of QEP Energy core acreage in the field. In January 2008, the WOGCC approved five-acre density drilling for Lance Pool wells on about 4,200 gross acres of QEP Energy’s Pinedale leasehold. The true vertical depth to the top of the Lance Pool tight gas sand reservoir interval ranges from 8,500 to 9,500 feet across QEP Energy’s acreage. The Company currently estimates that up to 1,100 additional wells will be required to fully develop its Pinedale acreage on a combination of 5 and 10-acre density. In addition to QEP Energy’s gross producing wells, QEP Energy had an overriding royalty interest only in an additional 21 wells at Pinedale.
Uinta Basin
The majority of Uinta Basin proved reserves are found in a series of vertically stacked, laterally discontinuous reservoirs at depths of 5,000 feet to deeper than 18,000 feet. QEP Energy owns interests in approximately 255,200 net leasehold acres in the Uinta Basin.
Rockies Legacy
The remainder of QEP Energy Northern Region leasehold interests, productive wells and proved reserves are distributed over a number of fields and properties managed as the Rockies Legacy division. Exploration and development activity in 2011 includes wells in the Powder River and Greater Green River Basins in Wyoming and the Williston Basin in North Dakota.
QEP Energy has approximately 90,000 net acres of lease rights in the Williston Basin in western North Dakota, where the company is targeting the Bakken and Three Forks formations. The true vertical depth to the top of the Bakken Formation ranges from approximately 9,500 feet to 10,000 feet across QEP Energy’s leasehold. The Three Forks Formation lies approximately 60 to 70 feet below the Middle Bakken Formation and is also a target for horizontal drilling. As of December 31, 2011, QEP Energy had one operated rig drilling in the project area.
Reserves - QEP Energy
At December 31, 2011 and 2010, approximately 91% and 88% of QEP Energy’s estimated proved reserves were Company operated. Proved developed reserves represented 54% and 53% of the Company’s total proved reserves at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, while the remaining 46% and 47% of reserves were classified as proved undeveloped at December 31, 2011 and 2010. All reported reserves are located in the United States. QEP Energy does not have any long-term supply contracts with foreign governments, reserves of equity investees or reserves of subsidiaries with a significant minority interest. QEP Energy’s estimated reserves are summarized as follows:
(1)
Oil and NGLs are converted to natural gas equivalents at the ratio of one bbl of oil or NGL to six Mcf of equivalent natural gas.
QEP Energy’s reserve statistics for the years ended December 31, 2009 through 2011, are summarized below:
(1)
Reserve life index is calculated by dividing year-end proved reserves by production for such year.
Proved Reserves
Reserve and related information for 2011 and 2010 is presented consistent with the requirements of the SEC’s rules for the Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting, that we adopted December 31, 2009. These revised rules expand the use of reliable technologies to estimate and categorize reserves and require the use of the average of the first-of-the-month prices for the prior 12 months (unless contractual arrangements designate the price) to be used to calculate economic producibility of reserves and the discounted cash flows reported as the Standardized Measure of Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Reserves. Refer to Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report for additional information regarding estimates of proved reserves and the preparation of such estimates.
QEP Energy’s proved reserves in major operating areas at December 31, 2011 and 2010 are summarized below:
Estimates of the quantity of proved reserves from the Company’s Pinedale Anticline leasehold in western Wyoming have changed substantially over time as a result of numerous factors including, but not limited to, additional development drilling activity, producing well performance and the development and application of reliable technologies. The continued analysis of new data has led to progressive increases in estimates of original gas-in-place at Pinedale and to a better understanding of the appropriate well density to maximize the economic recovery of the in-place volumes. With the application of the amendments of ASC 932 in ASU 2010-03, reserves associated with Pinedale increased density drilling are included in extensions and discoveries for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, because each new well drilled recovers incremental reserves that would otherwise be unrecoverable.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Significant changes to proved undeveloped reserves (PUDs) occurring during 2011 are summarized in the table below:
(1)
All of QEP Energy’s proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2011, are scheduled to be developed within five years from the date such locations were initially disclosed as proved undeveloped reserves, except for 217 Bcfe located within the northern portion of the Company’s Pinedale Anticline leasehold in western Wyoming. Long-term development of natural gas reserves in Pinedale is governed by the BLM’s September 2008, ROD on the FSEIS. Under the ROD, QEP Energy is allowed to drill and complete wells year-round in designated concentrated development areas. The ROD contains additional requirements and restrictions on the sequence of development, which requires the Company to develop its leasehold from the south to the north. These restrictions result in protracted, phased development that is beyond the control of the Company. The Company has an ongoing development plan and the financial capability to continue development in the manner estimated.
The costs incurred to continue the development of proved undeveloped reserves were approximately $533.6 million, $434.2 million and $216.1 million for the years ended December 31 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The costs incurred in 2011 related to the drilling of PUDs in QEP development projects, which are discussed in Item 2 above. This investment resulted in the transfer in 2011 of 314.5 Bcfe of reserves from proved undeveloped to proved developed, representing 22% of the total proved undeveloped reserves that were recorded at December 31, 2010.
Estimated future development costs relating to the development of PUDs are projected to be approximately $614.9 million in 2012, $788.8 million in 2013 and $757.7 million in 2014. Estimated future development costs include capital spending on major development projects, some of which will take several years to complete. Proved undeveloped reserves related to major development projects will be reclassified to proved developed reserves when production commences.
Internal Controls Over Reserve Estimates, Technical Qualifications and Technologies Used
Estimates of proved gas and oil reserves have been completed in accordance with professional engineering standards and the Company’s established internal controls, which includes the compliance oversight of a multi-functional reserves review committee responsible to the Company’s board of directors. We retained Ryder Scott Company, independent oil and gas reserve evaluation engineering consultants (“Ryder Scott”), to prepare the estimates of 100% of our reserves as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. The individual at Ryder Scott who was responsible for overseeing the preparation of our reserve estimates as of December 31, 2011, is a registered Professional Engineer in the State of Colorado and graduated with a Bachelors of Science degree in Geology from the University of Missouri at Rolla in 1976. The individual has over thirty years experience in the Petroleum Industry, including experience estimating and evaluating petroleum reserves. A more detailed letter of the individual’s professional qualifications has been filed as part of Exhibit 23.2 to this report.
The individual at QEP Resources responsible for insuring the accuracy of the reserve estimate preparation material provided to Ryder Scott and reviewing the estimates of reserves received from Ryder Scott was our Chief Reservoir Engineer. Such individual is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and graduated with a Bachelors of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from Mississippi State University in 1993. This individual has 17 years experience in the Petroleum Industry, including 13 years reservoir engineering experience in most of the active domestic basins in the United States. A more detailed letter of the individual’s professional qualifications has been filed as part of Exhibit 23.2 to this report.
The SEC’s new rules expanded the technologies that a company can use to establish reserves. The SEC now allows use of techniques that have been proved effective by actual production from projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology that establishes reasonable certainty. Reliable technology is a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that has been field tested and has been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. A variety of methodologies were used to determine our proved reserve estimates. The principal methodologies employed are performance, analogy or volumetric methods. All of the proved producing reserves attributable to producing wells and reservoirs were estimated by performance methods. Performance methods include, but may not be limited to, decline curve analysis which utilizes extrapolations of historical production and pressure data. Approximately 99 percent of QEP’s proved developed non-producing and undeveloped reserves included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K were estimated by analogy and the remaining approximately one percent of the proved developed non-producing and undeveloped reserves were estimated by the volumetric method. Some combination of these methods is used to determine reserve estimates in substantially all of QEP’s fields.
Refer to Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report for additional information pertaining to QEP Energy’s proved reserves as of the end of each of the last three years. In addition to this filing, QEP Energy will file reserves estimates as of December 31, 2011, with the Energy Information Administration of the Department of Energy on Form EIA-23. Although QEP uses the same technical and economic assumptions when it prepares the EIA-23 as used to estimate reserves for this Annual Report on Form 10-K, it is obligated to report reserves for only wells it operates, not for all of the wells in which it has an interest, and to include the reserves attributable to other owners in such wells.
Production, Production Prices and Production Costs
The following table sets forth the net production volumes, the average net realized prices per Mcf of natural gas, per bbl of oil and per bbl of NGL produced, and the operating expenses per Mcfe for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.
(1)
During the year ended December 31, 2011, QEP revised its reporting of transportation and handling costs. Transportation and handling costs, previously netted against revenues, were recast on the Consolidated Income Statement from revenues to “Natural gas, oil and NGL transportation and other handling costs” for all periods presented. This change had no impact on net income. See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” in Item 8, Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for additional information.
(2)
The average field-level price does not include the impact of settled commodity price derivatives.
A summary of natural gas production by major geographical area is shown in the following table:
A summary of oil production by major geographical area is shown in the following table:
A summary of NGL production by major geographical area is shown in the following table:
A summary of natural gas equivalent total production by major geographical area is shown in the following table:
Productive Wells
The following table summarizes the Company’s productive wells as of December 31, 2011. All of our wells are located in the United States.
The term “gross” refers to all wells or acreage in which QEP has at least a partial working interest and the term “net” refers to QEP’s ownership represented by that working interest. Although many wells produce both natural gas and oil, and many natural gas wells also have allocated NGL volumes from processing, a well is categorized as either a natural gas or an oil well based upon the ratio of gas to oil produced at the wellhead. Each gross well completed in more than one producing zone is counted as a single well. At the end of 2011, the Company had 90 gross wells with completions in more than one reservoir.
The Company also holds numerous overriding royalty interests in gas and oil wells, a portion of which are convertible to working interests after recovery of certain costs by third parties. After converting to working interests, these wells with overriding royalty interests will be included in the gross and net-well count.
Leasehold Acreage
The following table summarizes developed and undeveloped leasehold acreage in which the Company owns a working interest or mineral interest as of December 31, 2011. “Undeveloped Acreage” includes leasehold interests that already may have been classified as containing proved undeveloped reserves and unleased mineral interest acreage owned by the Company. Excluded from the table is acreage in which the Company’s interest is limited to royalty, overriding royalty and other similar interests. All leasehold acres are located in the United States.
(1)
Developed acreage is acreage assigned to productive wells.
(2)
Undeveloped acreage is leased acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of natural gas and oil regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
A portion of the leases summarized in the preceding table will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless the existing leases are renewed or production has been established from the acreage subject to the lease prior to that date. Leases held by production remain in effect until production ceases. The following table sets forth the gross and net acres subject to leases summarized in the preceding table that will expire during the periods indicated:
Leaseholds Expiring
Drilling Activity
The following table summarizes the number of development and exploratory wells drilled on acreage owned by QEP during the years indicated.
The following table presents operated and non-operated well activity at December 31, 2011 as well as completions for the year ended December 31, 2011:
Delivery Commitments
The Company sells NGLs under a term sales agreement that contains a delivery commitment for 8,500 barrels per day of NGL derived from several of QEP Field Services’ gas processing facilities in the Northern Region. The agreement, which was effective May 1, 2010, extends for a period of seven years and contains terms and conditions customary for an agreement of this type in the oil and gas industry. The Company believes that the reserves dedicated to its gas processing facilities and projected processing volumes are adequate to satisfy its delivery commitments under this agreement.
The Company is a party to various long-term sales commitments for physical delivery of natural gas with future firm delivery commitments as follows:
These commitments are physical delivery obligations with prices related to the prevailing index prices for natural gas at the time of delivery. None of these commitments require the Company to deliver natural gas produced specifically from any of the Company’s properties. The Company believes that its production and reserves are adequate to meet these term sales commitments. If for some reason the Company’s natural gas production is not sufficient to satisfy its term sales commitments, the Company believes it can purchase sufficient volumes of natural gas in the market at index-related prices to satisfy its commitments.
In addition, none of the Company’s production from QEP Energy owned properties is subject to any priorities, proration or third-party imposed curtailments that may affect quantities delivered to its customers, any priority allocations or price limitations imposed by federal or state regulatory agencies, or any other factors beyond the Company’s control that may affect its ability to meet its contractual obligations other than those discussed in “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
MIDSTREAM FIELD SERVICES - QEP Field Services
QEP Field Services owns 1,905 miles of gathering lines in Utah, Wyoming, Colorado, Louisiana and North Dakota. At December 31, 2011 QEP Field Services also owns processing plants, which remove NGL from the natural gas stream, that have an aggregate processing capacity, of 1.37 Bcf per day of unprocessed natural gas. In addition, QEP Field Services owns treating facilities in northwest Louisiana, which remove CO2 from the natural gas stream, that have an aggregate treating capacity of 600 MMcf per day of untreated natural gas. QEP Field Services also owns compression facilities and field dehydration and measurement systems. The 21-mile, 20-inch diameter pipeline owned by Rendezvous Pipeline can deliver up to 300 MMcf of natural gas per day to the Kern River Pipeline. QEP Field Services partnership facilities include the RGS system, consisting of 300 miles of gathering lines and associated field equipment, the UBFS system, which consists of 78 miles of gathering lines and associated field equipment and the Three Rivers system, which consists of 52 miles of gathering lines and associated field equipment.
In January 2011, QEP Field Services put into service the 150 MMcf per day cryogenic Iron Horse processing plant, an expansion of its Stagecoach processing complex in the Uinta Basin of eastern Utah. The plant predominantly provides fee-based processing services to third parties. In July 2011, QEP Field Services commissioned the 420 MMcf per day Blacks Fork II cryogenic processing plant, an expansion of its Blacks Fork processing complex located in the Green River Basin of southwestern Wyoming. The Blacks Fork complex is about 100 miles south of QEP’s operations at Pinedale. QEP expects that the Blacks Fork II plant at full capacity will be able to extract an incremental net 16,000 bbls per day of NGL.
ENERGY MARKETING - QEP Marketing
QEP Marketing, through its wholly owned subsidiary Clear Creek Storage Company, LLC, owns and operates an underground gas storage reservoir in southwestern Wyoming. The reservoir has a gas storage capacity of approximately 8 Bcf, comprised of an inventory of approximately 4 Bcf of QEP Marketing-owned cushion gas and working gas storage capacity of about 4 Bcf.
ITEM 3.