ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
CANADA
Through Kodiak’s private subsidiary, Cougar Energy, Inc., the Company’s focus is in the definitive projects of:
1.
Cougar Trout Properties, Alberta (Core Area) - farm-in and acquired lands in the Trout, Kidney and Equisetum fields;
2.
CREEnergy Project, Alberta - exploration and development opportunities within the CREEnergy Agreement;
3.
Lucy, British Columbia - Horn River Basin Muskwa shale gas project; and
4.
Other Alberta properties.
Cougar Trout Properties, Alberta (Core Area)
During the third quarter of 2009, Cougar Energy, Inc., the Company’s majority-controlled Canadian subsidiary, completed the following transactions:
Farm-in (completed June 9, 2009). Completed a farm-in agreement with an unrelated private oil and gas company and acquisitions of producing and non-producing properties from two unrelated private oil and gas companies.
1.
100% working interest in 28 sections of land in the area of the CREEnergy Project, northwest of Red Earth Creek, Alberta - pay 100% to earn 100% with a 3% gross overriding royalty (GOR) upon earning to the vendor.
2.
The mineral rights within the farm-in agreement are currently held under several Alberta Crown 4-year initial term P&NG licenses expiring in September 2010. The rights can be grouped and validated with a drilling program and subsequently continued under a 5 year intermediate term license.
3.
Close to infrastructure consisting of existing pipelines, with capacity, and all weather roads. The target formations should contain sweet natural gas. The existing regional natural gas infrastructure would reduce production and processing charges.
Acquisitions. On September 30, 2009 and October 1, 2009, acquired from an unrelated private company certain wells, facilities and producing operations in and adjacent to the CREEnergy project in Alberta, Canada. The acquisition included 11 producing wells, 21 suspended wells and associated production, water disposal, production facilities and pipelines in the Trout field. Gross production at the time of the acquisition was approximately 170 barrels of oil per day (boe/d). Cougar actively worked during the fourth quarter of 2009 to maximize production and revenue and assessed other opportunities in the area to supplement this initial asset base. The Company negotiated commercial terms for properties that had the greatest upside through normal maintenance and enhanced recovery programs, in addition to the potential for additional drilling. These negotiations culminated at the end of September and beginning of October 2009 with Cougar successfully acquiring the Trout Core Area properties from two private oil and gas companies. These acquisitions represented the Company’s first significant producing resource properties. The Cougar team had high graded many of the properties within these acquisitions and determined potential to increase existing production in the first round of development. Operations commenced on these properties during the winter of 2009/10, consisting of maintenance and work over programs. At the end of 2009, the Company reactivated 4 wells that were previously suspended and completed substantial geological evaluation on the properties. Kodiak negotiated a bridge loan, on behalf of Cougar, for this acquisition. The acquisitions closed September 30, 2009 and October 1, 2009.
1.
Private Company Production and Property Acquisition (completed September 30, 2009)
a)
Approximately 7,100 gross acres of mineral rights with an average 85% working interest (all continued through production and no expiries).
b)
Approximately 125 barrels per day (bbl/d) net production (170 bbl/d gross) and an estimated 85 bbl/d at date of acquisition.
c)
pumping wellbores - 8 at time of acquisition - 3 workovers pending partner approval of AFEs.
d)
observation wellbore and 21 suspended wellbores.
e)
single well batteries, 3 water disposal wellbores with associated facilities, 2 multi well batteries with existing fluid handling capacity in excess of 2,500bbl/day (oil, gas and water handling and treating capability).
f)
Approximately 38.7 km of pipelines (oil and produced water).
g)
Approximately 13 km2 of 3D seismic over the properties and approximately 84 km of 2D seismic over the properties and adjacent lands.
h)
Based on the June 30, 2009 independent look ahead engineering report provided by an independent and private company, the estimated Proved and Probable oil reserves were approximately CAD$7,250,000 (Net Present Value 10% discount).
The agreed purchase price for this acquisition was CAD$6,000,000 with an initial payment of CAD$1,000,000 at closing. The balance of CAD$5,000,000 is payable under a debt instrument consisting of monthly instalments commencing January 1, 2010 and continuing until March 1, 2014. The purchase price was negotiated at $52.50 USD per barrel (/bbl) when oil was selling at plus $75.00/bbl USD. The cash portion of the acquisition cost and subsequent guarantees were provided by Kodiak.
The majority of this acquisition is outside the boundary of the CREEnergy Project lands. At the time of the property acquisition, the surface facilities had a replacement value of CAD$6,500,000 with a depreciated value of CAD$1,000,000. The overall project has an estimated CAD$50,000,000 in sunk costs, including wells, facilities, pipelines, roads and power lines. The substantial infrastructure results in lower overall operating costs, lower development costs and accelerating the operations schedule. Kodiak was able to borrow sufficient funds for the acquisition on behalf of Cougar by way of a bridge loan. Cougar then closed the acquisitions September 30, 2009. This was a critical mass property acquisition as there is substantial infrastructure, resulting in lower overall operating costs, lower development costs and giving our schedule an enormous leap forward to achieve our goals.
Without this kind of infrastructure, the initial production would have lower netbacks due to higher trucking costs and regular non-producing periods due to weather. In lieu of this acquisition, a large amount of capital would have to be spent to bring facilities to this baseline, which we now have. At current costs, the infrastructure replacement value would be substantially in excess of CAD$6,000,000. This capital will now be able to be spent on the drill bit and development work - allowing for a more aggressive growth plan.
2.
Private Company Production and Property Acquisition (completed October 1, 2009)
a)
Approximately 2.560 gross acres of land within and adjacent to the CREEnergy Project area lands.
b)
65% working interest in 6 wells - 2 producing wells and 4 suspended wells located in the Kidney and Equisetum fields and within or adjacent to the CREEnergy Project lands.
c)
Approximately 12 bbl/d net production (20 bbl/d gross) of light oil at time of acquisition.
d)
Based on the April 1, 2009 engineering report provided by an independent and private company, the estimated Proved and Probable oil reserves were approximately CAD$459,000 (Net Present Value - 10%).
The Company, through is private subsidiary Cougar, negotiated a purchase agreement with the private company consisting of cash for the P1 reserves and Cougar shares for the P2 reserves.
Acquired Production and Properties Additional Discussion
The existing infrastructure and initial production on the acquired properties enables the Company to realize higher netbacks and focus on deploying capital to the drill bit and development work. Additional details include:
·
The existing area field personnel agreed to transfer to Cougar with their many years of hands-on field expertise thereby greatly reducing the risk of downtime due to lack of qualified field personnel.
·
The existing pipeline systems provides direct access to sales of oil products, which results in the access to sales being in the Company’s control and not third party pipeline operator dependent.
·
There are 2 batteries for the handling and treating of oil and the disposal of the produced water. The batteries are capable of handling an estimated 2,500 bbl/d with nominal refit costs.
·
Many of the wells are piped into the batteries to reduce the need for trucking, which is important for the higher water cut wells. These pipelines can be expanded to further lower operating costs.
·
There are 37 wells, which 13 were producing as of December 31, 2009. The 20 suspended wells are workover or recompletion candidates.
·
The produced water can be used for future water floods, which regularly have been shown to add substantial incremental production in the area.
·
As of December 31, 2009, the average production is 125 bbl/d net of light sweet crude oil at an average operating cost of CAD$20.00 to CAD$25.00/bbl.
GLJ Petroleum Consultants Ltd., Reserve Evaluations and Operations Update (October 1, 2009 and December 31, 2009)
These independent engineering reports were prepared by GLJ and are based on the acquisitions of September 30, 2009 and October1, 2009. The reports update the look forward reports that were prepared as part of the negotiations for property acquisitions. Due to the 3rd quarter financial statement cut off at September 30, 2009, only parts of the October 1, 2009 report were included in the 3rd quarter financial statements due to U.S. GAAP rules.
The October 1, 2009 report provided the initial analysis of the consolidated properties in the Trout Field and other Alberta properties acquired at Alexander and Crossfield. The December 31, 2009 report gave the analysis with the initial work programs implemented and plans for the balance of the winter work season.
Thus, we continue to demonstrate our ability to increase reserve value with limited capital infusion and our expectations of the opportunities these properties presented were supported by the reports and the results of the field work.
CREEnergy Project, Alberta
History
Kodiak has a well developed relationship and track record with Aboriginal communities in northern Canada. This comes from a strong commitment by Kodiak management and personnel for open and honest communications and negotiations with the Aboriginal community leaders - a demonstrated respect for their culture, land and residents. Kodiak's reputation has also been recognized through negotiations with regulatory agencies, resulting in several of those agreements being used as templates with other companies and projects. Our reputation has become known outside the far north of Canada.
CREEnergy Oil and Gas Inc. (CREEnergy) is the authorized agent for multiple First Nations communities. Some of these new First Nations communities are in various stages of ratification from the Federal Government of Canada to satisfy outstanding Treaty Land Entitlement (TLE) claims. Within these new First Nations are approximately 15 townships or 540 sections of mineral rights for development in Alberta.
In order to advance economic sustainability for First Nations communities that CREEnergy represents, CREEnergy searched for an oil and gas partner to develop certain oil and gas projects. Kodiak was one of the industry companies shortlisted in the search. Through discussions, meetings and negotiations since May 2008, CREEnergy selected Kodiak as their joint venture partner to develop those resource projects. The joint venture agreement between CREEnergy and Kodiak is the result of the negotiations.
To develop and strengthen the relationship with CREEnergy, Kodiak formed a subsidiary company, Cougar Energy, Inc., to focus on this relationship. As a result, Cougar became the operating entity for Kodiak in Western Canada.
Joint Venture Information and Summary
In December 2008, a strategic alliance and joint venture agreement was established between CREEnergy Oil and Gas Inc. (CREEnergy) and Kodiak Energy, Inc. (Kodiak). The Agreement was built on the foundation of respect for the First Nations communities, their Heritage, their Lands and the Environment. CREEnergy has agreed to work with Kodiak to develop oil and gas reserves within their lands for the benefit of both CREEnergy and Kodiak.
Joint Venture Agreement
Key priorities were established from the discussions between CREEnergy and Kodiak:
·
Use the royalties from the oil and gas production and work programs to develop a revenue stream. The long term purpose of the revenue is to support education, employment and development opportunities for the First Nations communities that Cougar is working with.
·
Open communication at all stages of the oil and gas developments.
·
Staged and managed growth, with regard to the interests of the communities during each step.
·
Identify and source other development opportunities, using a similar model, either as a value add or on a joint venture basis.
Lucy, Northern British Columbia
Cougar Energy, Inc is the operator and 80% working interest owner of a 1,920 acre lease located in Northeastern British Columbia. The Company believes the lease is situated on the southeast edge of the Horn River Basin and the Muskwa Shale gas prospect. Industry continues to show increased interest in this shale gas play with several comparisons of the Muskwa Shale gas potential as an analogue of the Barnett Shale gas potential.
The Company has been involved in two previous drilling operations on the lease. In the fourth quarter of 2006, Kodiak farmed in as a non-operated partner, paying 10% to earn 7.5%, on a drilling operation in the Lucy (Gunnell) area. This first drilling operation, designed to target a Middle Devonian reef prospect, had several operational problems and was unsuccessful.
After performing an internal review of seismic and drilling data, it was determined that there was a seismic anomaly on the southern half of the lease. This anomaly was identified on several different seismic lines and a decision was made to drill a well on that part of the lease to evaluate both the anomaly as the primary target and the Muskwa Shale, seen in the first well but not evaluated by the operator at that time.
In the third quarter of 2007, the Company served its partners with an independent operations notice which resulted in the Company increasing its working interest in the lease to 80%.
In the first quarter of 2008, a second drilling operation was completed and a vertical well was cased. It was determined that the Middle Devonian seismic anomaly was not a reef buildup and the wellbore was cased due to encountering significant gas shows in the previously identified Muskwa Shale with a formation thickness of approximately sixty meters.
The Company submitted an application to the British Columbia Oil & Gas Commission (“OGC”) for an experimental scheme to test the Muskwa Shale gas potential. On August 12, 2008, Kodiak received the final approval of the Lucy experimental scheme application. The Company has prepared a multi-phase work program designed to test the deliverability of the Muskwa Shale gas formation using vertical and horizontal drilling and completion techniques. Kodiak’s proposed work program would allow for early production into a pipeline in order to monitor long-term deliverability rates and pressures of horizontal and vertical test wells on the periphery of the Horn River Basin.
These results would be some of the first commercial production results for a Horn River Basin shale gas project and would provide information that would help define the effective exploration area of the Basin and assist in the validation of adjoining properties in a divestiture process, should that occur.
Kodiak engaged an industry-recognized shale gas assessment laboratory to prepare and analyze the drill cuttings from the 2008 well in order to evaluate the Muskwa Shale interval for gas potential. The shale gas assessment is conducted by performing various tests on the rock cuttings that were obtained while drilling the well in order to determine the type, quality and amount of both adsorbed and free gas.
The most important conclusion from the drill cutting analysis is that the information received continues to support the evaluation of Kodiak’s Muskwa (Evie) Shale gas prospect. The laboratory data is consistent with other public industry and government data on the Muskwa Shale. It should also be noted that the numbers obtained on the laboratory analysis of drill cuttings may be conservative due to the nature of sampling drill cuttings on a drilling rig. Another significant point is that all three wells on the Kodiak lease, drilled deep enough to penetrate the Muskwa Shale, had elevated gas detector readings while penetrating the shales.
The prospect is still in the early stages of delineation and no assurance can be given that its exploitation will be successful. Further appraisal work is required before these estimates can be finalized and commerciality assessed.
The severe turn down in gas prices over the past year has made natural gas projects difficult to show returns on investment - especially high capital cost projects such as those in the Horn River Basin - despite the very large reserves and recovery rates attributed to the Muskwa shales. The current $3 to $5 gas prices limit the return for this project in the short term and the availability to obtain development financing.
The current intention is to perform the following work commitments for the license (as new information and financing becomes available, the plans may be revised). In lieu of obtaining our own financing, we are actively enlisting JV partners to move the project forward by way of divesting part of our interest.
·
Perforate the Muskwa intervals, perform a vertical shale gas fracture treatment, test and evaluate pressures and production and, if economic, equip and tie in well to an existing pipeline approximately 1 Km from the wellhead; and
·
Drill and case a 1,000 meter horizontal leg from an existing cased vertical well on the lease, perform a horizontal staged fracture treatment, test and evaluate pressures and production and, if economic, equip and tie in well to pipeline.
In April 2009, Kodiak, through its subsidiary, Cougar, entered into a standard farm-out and participation agreement with one of its partners. The partner would provide 90% of the funding for the first phase of the “Lucy” Horn River work program. Upon completion of the funding, the partner will have earned an additional 30% working interest in the wells and property. Cougar will maintain operator status and majority ownership of the project with the management of Kodiak/Cougar overseeing the execution of the work program. Upon fulfillment of the funding provisions of the farm-out and participation agreement, Cougar’s working interest in the “Lucy” Horn River Basin project would be 50%.
Our partner did not complete its financing commitment and this farm-out and participation agreement expired on August 15, 2009. After due diligence was completed in October, 2009, the partner transferred its interest in its Alexander and Crossfield, Alberta wells to the Company as a penalty for non-completion (see below).
Cougar Central Alberta Producing Properties, Alberta
Private Company Production and Property Acquisition (completed October 1, 2009)
1.
producing oil properties in the Crossfield and Alexander fields in Central Alberta.
2.
100% working interest in the Crossfield property - 1 producing well with single well battery with approximately 5 barrels per day (bbl/d) net production - production continues to be stable with no capital commitment required.
3.
55% working interest in the Alexander property - 1 shut in oil well with a single well battery, 1 suspended well. Expected production of approximately 10 bbl/d net production upon restarting shut in oil well after spring break up.
In August, 2009, it was determined that Cougar’s working interest partner in the Lucy, B.C. project was unable to complete the financing as required in the farm-out agreement and as a result, in October after due diligence and environmental reviews, Cougar has accepted the transfer of the partner’s Alexander and Crossfield, Alberta properties as a penalty payment. The properties received are valued at approximately $500,000 CAD (NPV 10% escalated pricing). Cougar has assumed asset retirement obligations in connection with the properties estimated at $50,000 CAD. The properties have an estimated potential average production of 15 boe/d.
Production from the Company’s new proved reserves commenced on October 1, 2009 and recognition of the associated revenue and cash flow began on that date.
Little Chicago, Northwest Territories
The Company is the operator and largest working interest owner of the 201,160 acre Exploration Licence 413 (“EL 413”) in the Mackenzie River Valley centered along the planned Mackenzie Valley Pipeline.
In 2006, the Company signed an exploration farm-in agreement with the two 50% working interest owners of EL 413. The Company reprocessed 50 km of existing seismic data in Q4 of 2006 and during the 2006-07 winter work season, the Company shot and acquired 84 km of high resolution proprietary 2D seismic and gravity survey data on the farm-out lands, thus earning a 12.5% working interest in the property. In September, 2007, the Company acquired Thunder River Energy, Inc.’s (“Thunder”) remaining 43.75% in the property giving the Company a 56.25% interest in EL 413. A letter of intent signed earlier in 2008 with the Company’s remaining partner in the project, which would have allowed Kodiak to acquire the balance of the working interest in EL 413 and become a 100% working interest owner, recently expired.
A 2007/08 43 km 2D high resolution proprietary seismic program and gravity survey was completed on the property and the results were processed and interpreted and used to support the Company’s planned drilling program. This project was completed on budget and schedule. The seismic and gravity data from the two projects show substantial structural closure and formation character and support the planning for a future multiple well drilling program. That data was included in an updated Chapman Prospective Resource report published in May, 2008.
The decision to acquire additional seismic and gravity data in the winter of 2007/08 was made to improve the potential to drill both the Devonian Bear Rock and the Basal Cambrian Sand targets from a common drilling site. This would substantially lower drilling costs on a per well basis and reduce the overall project risk.
Kodiak has analyzed the 2007/08 seismic data and the various reservoir indicators/lands and identified 11 drill locations. These drill locations have been selected to evaluate three primary target formations on EL 413 including the Devonian Bear Rock Oil Prospect, the Basal Cambrian Sand /Top Precambrian Oil and Gas Prospect and the Canol Oil Prospect. These locations have been further high graded into a two phase drilling program consisting of two wells with a planned total depth of 2400 meters each targeting both the Basal Cambrian/Precambrian and the Bear Rock prospects and a multi-well shallow drilling program with a planned total depth of 400m each targeting the Canol prospect. A scouting trip was completed in the third quarter of 2008 that allowed the Company to review potential access routes, well sites and camp locations.
The Devonian Bear Rock Prospect (“Bear Rock”) is the first described target and is located at a shallow depth of approximately 700 meters (2,300 ft.). This reservoir was previously identified and preliminarily evaluated in the initial Chapman Report prepared in 2005. The expected product from the reservoir is light and medium oil, with no consideration to solution gas.
The combined seismic obtained during 2007 and 2008 acknowledged a series of pools distributed throughout the project. The Chapman Report identified fifteen Bear Rock leads located along the seismic lines with five of them being selected as well defined high grade Bear Rock leads. This is an increase of 5 additional leads from the initial 2007 work program. Indicators of these potentially prolific reservoirs are present along several seismic lines that may imply these Bear Rock occurrences to be present throughout EL 413.
The additional 2008 seismic further defined a hydrocarbon trap in the Basal Cambrian Sand sitting on the top of the Precambrian. This interval, found at a depth of approximately 2,300 meters (7,545 feet), has never been regionally penetrated and tested; however, it has been proven as a productive reservoir in the Colville Hills area approximately 125 kilometers (77 miles) east of EL 413. With this additional data, the Chapman Report identified five drilling locations that will allow the Basal Cambrian Sand and the top of the Precambrian to be drilled and tested.
Physical evidence of hydrocarbons is present with a natural surface oil seep on the northern edge of the license area on the banks of the Mackenzie River. This natural occurrence is suggestive of a shallow oil pool, possibly in the Canol formation, and warrants further investigation. While reviewing core samples and well logs from previous regional drilling activity, Kodiak was able to map out the Canol/Imperial formation and determine that it is the likely source of the natural surface seeps. This prospect will be found on the Northwest quarter of EL 413 and is at a very shallow depth of approximately 350 meters (1,148 feet). The Company has identified 5 drilling locations which will be evaluated during a planned future project drilling program.
Kodiak is preparing for the previously mentioned drilling program and has commenced work on the necessary permits and applications. The Company is working with the Sahtu and the Gwich’in, which are the beneficiaries of the land claims containing the EL 413 licence. The Company does not believe there will be any difficulty finishing the Access and Benefits Agreement prior to submitting the final applications to the regulators for approval. The Company is currently in discussions with other industry partners to share in the costs of the drilling programs, thus reducing risk and capital commitments. Financing plans will be finalized when overall partnerships are established. Kodiak intends on retaining operatorship.
In addition, Kodiak had made application with regulators to extend the EL 413 license and has received written notification from Indian and Northern Affairs Canada that a one year extension is available. The one year license extension, which is subject to certain terms and conditions, was provided just prior to expiry and provides for one additional year.
Upon review of the overall status of all projects in the area, current commodity prices being much below levels required to justify development on this and other projects, continued delay of the Mackenzie Valley Pipeline Project, the risk that any discovered gas reserves would be indefinitely stranded without such development, the Company continues to seek partnership in the development; however, the deteriorating economic factors make this difficult. We will still retain the confidential proprietary seismic data for future assessment of the "Little Chicago Prospect" and the Company will determine the best way to monetize that asset through either divestiture and/or possibly renominating the prospect when conditions are more appropriate.
Province/Granlea, Southeast Alberta
The Company purchased a 50% working interest in two sections (1280 acres gross - 640 net) of P&NG rights at a provincial land sale on September 22, 2005. In 2005, a 2D seismic program was completed on the property and in 2006, a well was drilled and completed; surface facilities were installed and a pipeline tie-in was completed. Production commenced in September, 2006. The well produced for a short period until excess water rates occurred and in October, 2006 the well was shut in. After the well bore was evaluated as having n o current economic production potential, the well was abandoned. An internal geological review of the prospect will be done to determine if any further drilling is warranted.
UNITED STATES
New Mexico
Through its acquisition of Thunder, the Company acquired a 100% interest in 55,000 acres of property located in northeast New Mexico. Additional land acquisitions have increased the Company’s land position to approximately 79 ,000 acres. These lands have potential for natural gas and CO2 and oil and helium resources at shallow depths. In 2008, the Company purchased 19,000 stations of gravity data and 37 miles of trade seismic data, completed a 35 mile 2D high resolution proprietary seismic program and a three well drilling program.
The three wells were drilled with air to reduce formation damage and they were cased to the base of the Yeso formation. Based on gas detector results, drill cutting samples and open hole logs, all wells showed three potential shallow porous sandstone formations capable of CO2 production with up to 200 feet of identified net pay thickness. The Yeso, Glorieta and Santa Rosa formations were perforated and flow tested to determine deliverability and pressure. There were multiple gas samples analyzed at specialized independent laboratories from two separate extended flow tests that identified CO2 concentration quality from 98.4% to 99.5%. Two of the wells were stimulated with a nitrified acid squeeze and were able to sustain an extended flow rate of approximately 375mcf/d. The shallow sands have been mapped using offset well control and the newly acquired seismic data and the Company has determined there is a very high likelihood of encountering the target formations throughout the leased project area; provided, however, that no assurance can be given that this will be the case.
The 35 mile 2D high resolution seismic program was completed on schedule and on budget and after reviewing the seismic data, the Company was able to effectively map out a probable long term development area which would result in CO2 production from the previously identified formations. The seismic is currently being evaluated to identify possible conventional oil and gas prospects on the leased project area.
A preliminary project feasibility study was commissioned to identify capital development costs and timelines as well as projected operating costs in order to provide information to support a large scale long-term plan of development. This information will enable the definitions for pipeline access planning and negotiation, transportation agreements, sales contracts for the CO2, additional land acquisition terms and conditions, facility engineering and construction and ultimately the parameters for financing the project development.
Several companies have expressed interest in participating in the New Mexico properties at several levels of involvement. Discussions are still ongoing with several firms regarding potential opportunities for the project, including integration of the CO2 production into Permian Basin enhanced oil recovery projects and the Company has also entered into farm-out negotiations with several companies interested in exploring deeper oil and natural gas prospects on the properties.
Due to lower commodity prices for Permian Basin oil (the primary market for CO2) and CO2 contract prices (deliverable into the Denver City Hub), aggressive development is not financeable at this time. Aside from ongoing maintenance of leases and wells, the Company is focusing its efforts on updating engineering models, and business opportunities so that when prices recover and investment markets improve, we will have the opportunity to move this project forward. The leases are 10 year leases and no expiries are imminent.
Montana
During 2006, the Company, under a joint venture farm-out agreement, participated in a seismic acquisition program, and a two well drilling program to earn a 50% non-operating working interest in the wells and well spacing. This joint venture project provides the Company with the right to participate on a 50% basis going forward on this prospect in the Hill County area of Montana. The operator of the project had 60,000 contiguous undeveloped acres of P&NG rights in the area, as well as some excess capacity in facilities and pipelines. Two wells were drilled in the third quarter of 2006; one is cased for subsequent evaluation of the multiple zones found and one was abandoned. In order to facilitate the efficient exploration of this prospect area, the Company acquired from the original operator a 100% working interest of 12,000 acres of P&NG rights while retaining the right to participate and initiate operations on the remaining approximate 48,000 acres of prospect leases. After an internal geological review of this prospect, and in light of current commodity prices, the Company, in the fourth quarter of 2008, wrote off its costs relative to this project and subsequently, in 2009, the Company has allowed the acreage to expire.
OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES
The Company currently has one core producing property in Canada of developed acreage and four properties in Canada and two in the United States comprising of undeveloped land holdings on which it is carrying out exploration activities.
Land Acreage
Following is a summary of the Company’s land holdings in gross and net hectares:
A developed property is considered to mean those acres/hectares spaced or assignable to productive wells, a gross acre/hectare is an acre/hectare in which a working interest is owned, and a net acre/hectare is the result that is obtained when fractional ownership working interest is multiplied by gross acres/hectare. The number of net acres/hectares is the sum of the factional working interests owned in gross acres/hectares expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
An undeveloped property is considered to be those lease acres/hectares on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil or natural gas and does not include undrilled acreage held by production under the terms of a lease. As is customary in the oil and gas industry, we can generally retain our interest in undeveloped acreage by drilling activity that establishes commercial production sufficient to maintain the leases or by paying delay rentals during the remaining primary term of such a lease. The oil and natural gas leases in which we have an interest are for varying primary terms, and if production continues from our developed lease acreage beyond the primary term, we are entitled to hold the lease for as long as oil or natural gas is produced.
OFFICE PROPERTY
During December, 2009, Kodiak Energy, Inc. relocated its offices to 833 4th Avenue S.W., Suite 1122, Calgary, AB, T2P 3T5. We lease offices on a 3 year term, expiring in February of 2013. The current lease is approximately $14,000 CAD per month.
ITEM 3.