ITEM 2.
DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
Deer Trail Lease
On March 30, 1992, Deer Trail Mining Company, LLC entered into a Mining Lease and Option to Purchase agreement with Deer Trail Development Corporation, with headquarters in Dallas, Texas. Deer Trail Development Corporation is now known as Crown Mines, L.L.C. The lease was to run for a period of 10 years, and cover 28 patented claims, 5 patented mill sites and 171 unpatented claims located approximately 5 miles South of Marysvale, Utah. It included mine workings known as the Deer Trail Mine, the PTH Tunnel and the Carisa and Lucky Boy mines. The lease was extended several times prior to the Company’s purchase of the claims in July 2007.
In July 2007, Deer Trail Mining Company completed the purchase of the claims covered by the Deer Trail Lease. A total of $4,000,000 was paid to purchase the property over a period of approximately three years. The purchase of the claims also included the purchase of a fifty percent (50%) interest in Water Right No. 63-37, said fifty percent (50%) portion including a maximum flow of 0.125 cubic feet of water per second and a maximum annual diversion of 90.5 acre feet of water from Three Mile Spring for year-round mining purposes. The purchase of the claims also included a fifty percent (50%) interest in a contractual right to use water diverted under Water Right No. 63-3043 as evidenced and described in the Agreement between Cottonwood Irrigation Company and Deer Trail Development Corporation dated July 28, 1977. The fifty percent (50%) interest in the contractual water right allows Deer Trail Mining Company to truck not more than 2,500 gallons of water per week from the Cottonwood Creek to the Deer Trail Mine for mining activities during the irrigation season (April 15 to October 15), and possibly more during the remaining portion of each year.
Deer Trail Mining Company also obtained a lease from Crown Mines, L.L.C. of the remaining fifty percent (50%) interest in Water Right No. 63-37 and the remaining 50% interest in the contractual water right (Water Right 63-3043. The lease is for an initial term of 5 years for no rent. The lease may be terminated by Crown Mines, L.L.C. upon 12 months’ written notice if Crown Mines determines that the water rights covered by the lease are necessary for the operation and development of any of Crown Mines’ mining claims or for other permitted uses. The lease may be extended if Crown Mines determines that the water rights covered by the lease are not required for the operation and development of any of Crown Mines’ mining claims or for other permitted uses during the extension period, provided that the parties can agree on other terms including a price or rent for the extended term.
Crown Mines, L.L.C. retained a perpetual royalty interest on minerals taken from the claims purchased by Deer Trail Mining Company. The perpetual royalty is three percent (3.0%) of net smelter returns on minerals other than gold. The royalty rate for gold is three percent (3.0%) when the price of gold is less than or equal to $500 per troy ounce, four percent (4.0%) when the price of gold is more than $500 and less than or equal to $600 per troy ounce, and five percent (5.0%) when the price of gold is greater than $600 per troy ounce. Crown Mines, L.L.C. also retained an undivided three percent (3.0%) interest in any oil and gas and associated hydrocarbons produced from the claims.
Crown Mines, L.L.C. also retained an access easement and a water line pipeline easement across the claims sold to Deer Trail Mining Company.
Deer Trail Mining Company has agreed to provide Crown Mines, L.L.C. with information obtained as a result of Deer Trail Mining Company’s exploration activities on the claims, and Deer Trail Mining Company granted to Crown Mines, L.L.C. a right of first refusal to repurchase the claims or any portion thereof.
In August 2006, Deer Trail Mining Company entered into a Mining Lease with Joel Johnson covering the Clyde, Clyde Intermediate and Crown Point claims. These claims are located near the Deer Trail Mine. Deer Trail Mining Company has leased the claims for the purpose of conducting mine exploration, evaluation, and possible mining activities on the claims. The Mining Lease is for two years, with options to extend the lease for 50 additional one year periods. Under the terms of the Mining Lease, Deer Trail Mining Company paid initial down payments totaling $31,000 with $4,000 due in the second year of the lease. If Deer Trail Mining Company elects to extend the lease, it must pay $3,000 for the first extension year, and the annual lease extension payment increases ten percent (10%) per year thereafter. Additionally, Deer Trail Mining Company will pay three percent (3%) of the gross sale proceeds from the sale of any ore concentrates, or other mineral resources extracted from the claims.
In September 2006, Deer Trail Mining Company entered into a Non-Patented Mining Claims Lease covering approximately 70 additional claims covering approximately 1,500 acres in Piute County Utah for the purpose of exploration, evaluation and mining activities. In consideration for the rights under the agreement, the Deer Trail Mining Company agreed to pay the lease holders $7,000 per year for each of the first three years. Deer Trail Mining Company has the right to extend the lease for 50 additional one year periods. If extended by Deer Trail Mining Company, the annual lease payment is $10,000 in each of years four and five, and thereafter the annual lease payment increases by ten percent (10%) per year. In addition to the annual lease payments, Deer Trail Mining Company has also agreed to pay an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the gross sales proceeds from all ore, concentrates, and all other productions of mineral resources extracted from the claims. The agreement contains an option to purchase the claims exercisable at $350,000 during the five first years of the lease. The exercise price increases $50,000 per year thereafter. It may only be exercised while the lease is effective.
The Deer Trail claims are located in the Tushar Mountains of East Central, Utah in the Mount Baldy and Ohio Mining districts. They are located on Deer Trail Mountain, approximately 5 miles South of Marysvale, Utah and are accessible by a gravel county road which is in good condition. There are no known, proven or probable reserves on the property.
The Deer Trail ore body was first discovered by deer hunters in 1878. The ore body originally cropped out at the surface. It is estimated that between 1878 and 1917, about 10,000 tons of ore were mined. A small mill was installed in 1918, and between 1918 and 1923 the mine produced about 138,000 tons of predominately oxidized ore averaging 1.38 opt gold, 11.49 opt silver and 3.26% lead. Zinc and copper were not recovered. In 1923, mining was suspended when the workings encountered a fault that cut off the ore,
and for more than 20 years production was limited to drawing stopes and removing pillars. In 1945, the PTH tunnel was started to explore for the faulted extension of the Deer Trail ore body. The 3,400 ore body was encountered unexpectedly by this tunnel and a total of 5,000 tons of ore averaging 2.84% lead, 0.76% copper, 6.26% zinc, 15.17 opt silver and 0.19 opt gold were shipped. By 1964, the PTH tunnel had intersected the offset part of the Deer Trail ore body. From 1964 until 1981 this segment of the ore body produced over 100,000 tons of unoxidized sulfide ore averaging 5% lead, 0.6% copper, 12% zinc, 15 opt silver, and 0.10 opt gold. The present working face is still in ore.
The PTH Tunnel penetrates more than 10,000 feet with a developed network of tunnels, shafts and raises at the 3,400 foot area and at the 8,000 foot area and was mined extensively for gold and silver for about 20 years. The timbered and ventilated tunnel includes more than two miles of track for ore cars accessed through a covered entrance structure.
The mine facilities also include ore cars, battery operated engines, an engine storage and charging house, an electric power substation, a miner's locker room, a compressor building, a 1,000 gallon underground gasoline storage tank with gas pump, two front end loaders, three dump trucks and a general office, two fully operational labs and a core sampling facility. Deer Trail Mining Company believes water is accessible to the site.
The Deer Trail mining property was developed by the Deer Trail Development Corporation, now known as Crown Mines, LLC, located in Dallas, Texas. The property has been leased out several times since production ceased in 1981 and is presently owned by Deer Trail Mining Company, LLC. There has been little production since then. Several major mining companies have explored the property. These include Noranda, Phelps Dodge and Goldfields. One smaller company drilled and analyzed the mill tailings from the upper Deer Trail Mine area in 1990. The results of the drilling and other tests were not conclusive, and at present there are no known proven or probable reserves on the claims.
Unico leased the property effective June 1, 1992. Unico has produced a few small lots of ore from the stopes in the 8600 area of the PTH tunnel for testing and evaluation purposes, and has developed several excellent targets within those workings. In April 2001, Unico began limited mining operations which were concentrated in the 3400 area of the mine until underground mining operations temporarily stopped in October 2003. Unico transferred all rights and obligations to the Deer Trail Mining Company in June 2004. Deer Trail Mining Company purchased the claims in July 2007, and is the current owner and operator of the Deer Trail Mine. Deer Trail Mining Company resumed underground mining operations at the Deer Trail Mine in late 2004. Underground mine operations have focused on infrastructure improvements during this past fiscal year along with continuing the exploration, testing and development of mineable reserves.
Deer Trail Mine Geological Information
The Deer Trail mine workings expose westerly dipping sedimentary rocks of three units: the Toroweap and Queantoweap Formations and the Callville Limestone. The Deer Trail ore body is in the lower part of the Toroweap Formation and consists of a nearly continuous group of semiconcordant replacement bodies flanking a central vein. About half of this ore body is exposed in the Old Deer Trail mine workings and is oxidized; the other half is located in the 8600 area workings and consists of unoxidized sulphide ore. The Queantoweap Formation, which underlies the Toroweap, is a quartzite and hosts no known mantos. The underlying Callville Limestone contained the 3400 ore body.
The Toroweap Formation exposed in the 8600 area consists of a wide range of interbedded lithologies, including quartzite, limestone, dolomite, shale, and chert, which form 50 or more recognizable units ranging in thickness from a inch to several feet. In contrast, the underlying Queantoweap Sandstone consists of a fairly uniform medium-grained, well-sorted massive quartzite.
The Calville Limestone in the Deer Trail mine lacks marker beds, and lithologic facies change rapidly. The rocks are cut by several faults of unknown displacement. The marked lateral variations in lithology have made it possible to identify only seven correatable stratigraphic assemblages. The upper 240 feet of the Callville Limestone in the 3400 area consists dominantly of mudstones containing quartz silt, evaporite nodules, and sponge spicules. Below 240 feet, dolomite containing microfossils and peloids is abundant and evaporites are absent. In the 8600 area, the Callville has been observed in drill core and there it contains thick beds of course-grained anhydrite.
The Toroweap Formation in the mine area strikes generally north-south and dips 201 W. The Deer Trail ore body rakes across this inclination with a bearing of N 701 W, so the average plunge of the ore zone into Deer Trail Mountain is about 181.
The mantos in the Old Deer Trail mine workings closely followed the axis of the Deer Trail anticline, a relationship that was used to guide development. In the 8600 area, however, the mantos and the anticline axis diverge and the deepest workings are about 1500 feet apart.
The Deer Trail ore body consists of a semicontinuous group of narrow, elongate strata-bound replacement bodies developed adjacent to a central vein. The ore body has a sinuous ribbon like shape in plain view and has been mined for a length of approximately 5,525 feet over a width averaging 32 to 38 feet and a height averaging about 15 to 30 feet.
A set of cross faults that trends east-northeast and dip steeply to the north are exposed in the mine workings in the 8600 area. These have an aggregate stratigraphic throw of about 150 feet, down to the north. One of these faults is the 18 Drift fault or 18 North fault. These faults are now occupied by quartz veins as much as 15 feet thick that contain substantial quantities of lead, zinc, arsenic, silver, gold, copper and molybdennum. The 18 north fault consists of quartz with good values in gold, silver and copper with very little other metals which could possibly be marketed to smelters as a flux.
Deer Trail Mine Workings
The mine workings at the Deer Trail consist of the upper Old Deer Trail mine workings and the PTH tunnel mine workings. The Old Deer Trail mine consists of three levels, approximately 100 vertical feet apart. The first level was first accessed from the surface through the discovery shaft of 1878, with several adits interconnecting from the surface. The second level or the No. 2 Tunnel level is accessed through one known tunnel and consists of several large stopes interconnected with a series of drifts, winzes, and raises. The third level or the No. 3 Tunnel level was used as a haulage tunnel and was the main level of the Old Deer Trail mine. It consists of drifts and raises all accessed by 18" narrow gauge track. The present workings are only partially accessible. Many drifts have caved. All three levels are interconnected allowing for good ventilation.
The PTH Tunnel workings underlie the Old Deer Trail workings by approximately 450 feet and accessed 4,000 feet to the south. The PTH Tunnel was started in 1945 to intersect the faulted Deer Trail ore body. It is a 5'x7' tunnel that extends over 10,000 feet into Deer Trail Mountain. Almost all areas of these workings are accessed by 18" narrow gauge track. The tunnel trends to the north-northwest paralleling the base of Deer Trail Mountain. At approximately 3,400 feet the tunnel intersected unexpectedly mineralization in the Callville Limestone. This mineralization was developed on the PTH Tunnel level as well as two levels below 100 vertical feet apart. Bedded mineralization associated with the Wet Fault was produced via a series of drifts, winzes, stopes and raises. A ventilation/escape shaft was driven to the surface in this area. The tunnel next encountered mineralization at approximately 8,600 feet, where the tunnel encountered the continuation of the Deer Trail ore body. Several thousand feet of drifts was driven to explore and exploit the deposit. An internal shaft was driven 250 feet to gain access to the shallowing dipping ore where three more levels were established. Again several hundred feet of drifts, stopes, raises and winzes were driven to mine the ore body.
Water was encountered in the 280 winze and pumps were installed in order to continue mining. Mining was stopped in 1981 due to lack of processing and smelting facilities. The present face in the 280 area is still in ore. The width of the face was increasing as well as the value of the ore. A raise to connect the PTH workings with the Old Deer Trail Mine was started located approximately where the PTH Tunnel crossed the 18 North fault. It is presently up 140 feet.
Deer Trail Mine Mineral Resources
The resources have been outlined above. However, further efforts to increase the mineable resources of the mine are being explored. Deer Trail Mining Company completed phase one which included a reverse circulation exploratory drill program in the upper Deer Trail Mine area. Deer Trail Mining Company also completed a second phase of underground diamond core drilling conducted in the PTH Tunnel of the Deer Trail Mine, which began in first quarter of 2005 to attempt to prove up reserves. Deer Trail Mining Company is also evaluating ways to mine more efficiently in order to mine lower grade ores economically. Deer Trail Mining Company is evaluating whether cyanide may be used in processing its ore. Deer Trail Mining Company acquired two heavy media separators. The heavy media separator is a method whereby low grade material can be upgraded underground. Areas left undeveloped in the mine due to the amount of waste rock between narrow mineralized beddings might effectively be produced by using heavy media separator technology.
The Deer Trail deposit is similar to many deposits in Utah, such as Tintic and Park City, where mine reserves were drilled approximately two years ahead of production due to the nature of the deposits and the costs involved in drilling out entire reserves before mining began. It is planned that reserves in the Deer Trail will be established two to three years ahead of production. Exploration drilling will be conducted in conjunction with mine production. Several prospective targets will be drilled from underground as the workings advance.
To date only two known mineralized horizons have been exploited. Deer Trail Mining Company believes the underlying formations contain very favorable horizons for mineralization, but they have yet to be tested. Deer Trail Mining Company believes the potential is excellent that more mineralization will be discovered.
Deer Trail Mining Company's Purchase of 680 Acres Near the Deer Trail Mine
On August 28, 2000, Unico purchased approximately 680 acres of raw ground located in Piute County, State of Utah for $200,000. This land is adjacent to the existing Deer Trail Mine property owned by Unico which is currently operated by the Deer Trail Mining Company. The property was purchased from Tech-Sym Corporation of Houston, Texas.
Deer Trail Mining Company purchased the property for the purpose of establishing a mill site on the property and to use as a place to store waste rock from mining operations, and for other general mining and business purposes.
In June 2002, this property was encumbered by a trust deed securing a loan in the amount of $200,000 which was used to finance general operations of Deer Trail Mining Company. On June 25, 2004, the balance and accrued interest related to this debt was repaid through the issuance of common stock.
Silver Bell Mine
On December 6, 2000, Unico acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of stock of Silver Bell Mining Company, Incorporated, a Utah corporation, in consideration for the issuance of 3,000,000 restricted shares of Unico common stock. In June 2002, all of the Silver Bell Mining claims were encumbered by a trust deed securing a loan in the amount of $350,000 which was used to finance general operations of Silver Bell Mining Company, Incorporated. On June 25, 2004, the balance and accrued interest related to this debt was repaid through the issuance of common stock.
Silver Bell Mining Company, Incorporated was incorporated in the State of Utah on April 26, 1993. It has acquired 26 patented mining claims located in American Fork Canyon, Utah County, Utah, which is organized into three separate parcels. The claims contain mining properties which have not been mined for production since 1983. The properties were mined primarily for silver, lead and zinc. There are no known, proven or probable reserves on the property.
The Silver Bell deposit was first discovered in 1871 by soldiers stationed at Fort Douglas in Salt Lake City. Mining was confined to select high grade ores averaging 100 ounces per ton in silver. The workings consisted of an adit and a winze and ore was lowered down the mountain by means of a cable and rail system. The mine was enlarged to accommodate larger equipment in 1980 and some ore was produced which averaged 22 ounces in silver per ton of ore. The deposit consists of a single fissure or vein known as the Silver Bell fissure which averages six feet in width and dips to the NW at 62 degrees. It has been exposed for over 300 feet in depth and over 1,200 feet of strike length. Associated with the fissure several mineralized horizons (mantos) have been encountered. Recent independent sampling done by Watts, Grifiths, and McQuat and others demonstrate that the mantos are far richer than the vein mineralization with values as high as 120 ounces per ton silver. The deposit contains both oxide and sulphide ore rich in silver, lead, zinc and copper. The sulphide mineralization contains more values than the oxides. The mineralized system is located within the Maxfield cambrian limestone unit and extends down through the Ophir units into the Tintic Quartzite. There is presently an estimated resources of over 100,000 tons.
Silver Bell Mining Company conducted some exploration work on the Silver Bell Mine in Summer, 2003 through 2004. Silver Bell Mining Company plans to commence an exploration and resource definition program at the Silver Bell Mine during Summer, 2006. Silver Bell Mining Company may also seek a joint venture mining partner to jointly develop the Silver Bell Mine. Silver Bell Mining Company anticipates that any ore mined from the Silver Bell Mine will be transported to the Deer Trail Mine site where it will be crushed and milled.
In August 2006, Silver Bell Mining Company reached a preliminary agreement for a joint venture with the Polymet Company, LLC for mining at the Silver Bell Mine and executed a letter of intent. A subsequent definitive agreement to finalize the details of the joint venture was expected to be signed by August 31, 2006. However, the parties failed to reach a definitive agreement, and the parties are no longer involved in negotiations.
Bromide Basin Mines
On July 20, 2001, Bromide Basin Mining Company, LLC entered into a Mining Lease and Option to Purchase with Kaibab Industries, Inc., an Arizona corporation, covering certain mining claims at the Bromide Basin Mines. The lease was renewed several times until it expired on October 31, 2007. The Company has decided not to renew the lease or exercise its purchase option.
The primary purpose of the agreement was to allow Bromide Basin Mining Company access to the claims to conduct an extensive preproduction feasibility study prior to any additional mining production and to analyze the potential of the claims before exercising its purchase option from Kaibab Industries. It has been determined that the mine is not suitable for a large scale mining operation by the Company, and the Company will not renew the lease or exercise its purchase option.
Purchase of Mining Equipment
In April 2003, Unico purchased certain mining equipment from Kaibab Industries, Inc. for $165,000. To pay for the equipment, Unico executed a promissory note which Unico and Bromide Mining Company, LLC have collectively assumed liability to make payments of $2,000 per month, this promissory note was extended until July 1, 2005. The promissory note was paid in full in April 2006 when Unico paid approximately $125,785 to Kaibab Industries, Inc. All of this mining equipment was moved to the Deer Trail mine where it is being used.
Principal Offices
Our principal offices are located at 8880 Rio San Diego Drive, 8th Floor, San Diego, California 92108. We lease on a month-to-month basis at a rate of US $4,602 per month. We believe our office space is suitable for our needs for the foreseeable future.
ITEM 3.