ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
We classify our mineral property as an "Exploration Property". We do not suggest that we have proven or probable reserves at our property as defined by the SEC. Under U.S. standards, as set forth in SEC Industry Guide 7, mineralization may not be classified as a “reserve” unless a determination has been made that the mineralization could be economically and legally produced or extracted at the time the reserve determination is made. The SJG Property as described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is without known reserves. Mineral resources which are not classified as mineral reserves do not have “demonstrated economic viability.” The quantity of resources and the quality (grade) of resources reported as “Indicated” and “Inferred” mineral resources in the mineral resource estimate compiled for DynaMéxico, under and filed by the Company on SEDAR, are not disclosed in this Form 10-K. There has been insufficient exploration to define any mineral reserves on the SJG Property, and it is not certain if further exploration will result in the definition of mineral reserves.
San Jose de Gracia Mineral Property
San Jose de Gracia Property (“SJG”) is a high-grade mineralized system which reports historical production of 1,000,000 Oz. gold (“Au”), from a series of underground workings and is located in the state of Sinaloa, México. The Company is focused on the exploration and future exploitation of this vein-hosted, near surface, and over 400 meters down dip gold potential, that occurs within fault breccia veins; and has been traced on surface and underground over a 15 Sq. kilometer area.
DynaMéxico owns 100% of the mineral concessions at the SJG Property, and all mineral concessions are contiguous. The SJG Property is currently the only property in which DynaMéxico retains an interest. The Company owns 80% of the outstanding capital shares of DynaMéxico. DynaMéxico holds title to 33 concessions covering approximately 69,121 hectares (170,802 acres).
Property Location
The property is located in and around San Jose de Gracia, Sinaloa State, México which is approximately 100 km northeast of Guamuchil, near the west coast of México. It is located on the west side of the Sierra Madre mountain range in the Sierra Madre Gold-Silver Belt. The topography is generally rugged with elevations varying from 400 meters in the valley bottoms to over 1,600 meters in the higher Sierra. Several roads on the property are accessible throughout the year, with the possible exception of July through September when the rainy season sometimes causes flooding and runoff to make the roads difficult to navigate.
Access
The San José de Gracia Project can be accessed by road, via a sealed highway from Culiacan, the capital city of the State of Sinaloa (located to the south of the San José de Gracia Project) or the city of Guamuchil (located to the southwest of SJG), to the small town of Sinaloa de Leyva, then by gravel mountainous road to the village of San José de Gracia.
The San José de Gracia Project can also be accessed by air. A gravel airstrip is located adjacent to the village of San José de Gracia which is located at the southwestern portion of the property at the SJG Project, and the airstrip is suitable for light aircraft.
Climate and Operating Season
The climate is semi-tropical with a rainy season dominating from late June through September. Operations at the San José de Gracia Project are, in part, dependent on the weather and some activities may be suspended during the rainy season.
Infrastructure and Local Resources
Power
A power line to the San José de Gracia Project has been installed by the Comisión Federal de Electricidad, the only authorized power producer in México. The power line was installed in March 2012 from the municipality of Sinaloa de Leyva (La Estancia area), a distance of approximately 75 kilometers.
The power line is currently 220 volts maximum capacity, which supports domestic use only, including the office and camp facilities at SJG, such as water pump, air conditioning, refrigeration, lights, internet, and fans, as well as local residential use. Currently, the SJG Project produces its own diesel-generated power for industrial use.
Water
The water source for the SJG camp is from a well located close to the river which runs just west of the village of San José de Gracia. DynaMéxico has obtained the water concession rights for this water source, which provide for usage of 1,000,000 cubic meters per year. DynaMéxico estimates its current consumption of water to be approximately 10,000 liters per week.
Accommodations
The mine site area camp maintains facilities which can accommodate 50 persons. The village of San José de Gracia maintains few stores, which offer only minimal goods.
Offices - Camp Facilities
DynaMéxico maintains an administrative and logistics office in Guamuchil, located 100 kilometers southwest of the SJG property. The SJG Project sources many of its supplies from Guamuchil, and from Los Mochis and Culiacan. A satellite dish installed at the SJG Property provides communications from the SJG Property to Guamuchil.
Lab
A field laboratory is maintained within the camp facility. The Company utilized the lab for assaying services during its production activities in 2003-2006. In the second half of 2016, the laboratory has been refurbished by DynaMineras and is currently utilized by on site personnel to provide assays for mined material, feed material, gravity and flotation concentrates, and tailings. DynaMineras anticipates utilizing the lab facility in the future for providing internal assays to support the exploration, test mining, and pilot milling activities.
Regional Geology & Mineral Deposits
San José de Gracia lies within the Sierra Madre Occidental (“SMO”) Gold-Silver Belt, in a second-order graben directly east of the regional-scale Grete Graben. The SMO is recognized as a highly prospective mineral belt for gold, silver and poly-metallic deposits. The basement to the Sierra Madre Occidental consists of deformed Paleozoic sedimentary strata, which are non-conformably overlain by Tertiary mafic to felsic volcanic and volcanoclastic strata known as the Lower Volcanic Series (“LVS”). Strata of the LVS are recognized as being spatially related to gold and silver mineralization in the region. Volcanic and sedimentary strata are capped by a thick sequence of non-deformed Late Tertiary ignimbrites, known as the Upper Volcanic Series (“UVS”).
Property Geology
The oldest rocks exposed at San José de Gracia are deformed Paleozoic shale, sandstone, conglomerate and minor limestone, which are non-conformably overlain by andesite and rhyodacite flows and tuffs of the LVS. Volcanic and sedimentary strata are cut by quartz-feldspar porphyry, porphyritic diorite bodies and fine-grained mafic dykes, which may be co-temporal with the LVS. Ignimbrites of the UVS are exposed at higher elevations on the property and are thought to act as a post mineralization cap rock, thereby indicating an Early to Mid-Tertiary (Paleocene to Eocene) age for gold mineralization at San José de Gracia.
Geologic Structure
Detailed mapping within the project area has defined several stages of deformation, beginning with compression during the Laramide Orogeny which affected the Paleozoic basement and formed flat-lying reverse faults, which have been reactivated as conduits for gold-bearing fluids in the La Prieta trend. Extension in Tertiary time led to the development of second order structures, trending south, southwest and southeast; which formed the major structural orientations for mineralization at San José de Gracia. The latest phase of deformation is characterized by late-stage extension and southwest tilting.
Property Mineralization
High grade gold mineralization at San José de Gracia is found in vein structures hosted within andesite and rhyodacite of the Lower Volcanic Series (“LVS”) and underlying Paleozoic sediments as fault breccia veins and crackle breccias that exhibit multiple stages of reactivation and fluid flow, as evidenced by crustiform/colloform textures and cross cutting veins. Locally, veins exhibit sharp, clay gouge hanging wall and footwall contacts with slickensides, indicating reactivation of structurally-hosted veins subsequent to mineralization. Gold grades can also be carried within the mineralized halo adjacent to the principal veins as quartz-chlorite stockwork. In addition to vein-hosted mineralization, broad zones of un-mineralized clay alteration, developed southwest of the main mineralized trends, may overlie lower-grade, disseminated gold mineralization at depth.
Alteration at San José de Gracia is laterally and vertically zoned from discrete zones of silicification to broad zones of illite to clay alteration with increasing elevation and/or distance from the main feeder structures. Faulting and tilting of the mineralization system has affected the surface distribution of alteration and in general has exposed deeper portions of the system in the northeast and exposed shallower, more distal portions of the hydrothermal system in the southwest part of the property.
The characterization of the mineralization at San Jose de Gracia can be described as low sulphidation polymetallic epithermal gold type. Six principal mineralized trends have been identified at San José de Gracia, from south to north. These consist of the:
1.
La Purisima Ridge trend;
2.
Palos Chinos trend;
3.
La Parilla to Veta Tierra trend (Including San Pablo East);
4.
San Pablo trend;
5.
La Prieta trend, and
6.
Los Hilos to Tres Amigos trend.
Licenses and Concessions
The SJG District is comprised of 33 mining concessions covering 69,121 hectares (170,802 acres) and is located within the Sierra Madre gold-silver belt, where the majority of hydrothermal deposits in México are located. The Company’s mining concessions, all of which are formally held by DynaMéxico, are granted by the Mexican government, or acquired from previous owners. The Company’s concessions are comprised of a combination of exploration concessions and development concessions, are filed in the Public Registry of Mining, and are scheduled to expire from 2028 through 2058. The concessions can be renewed prior to the expiry dates. The table below contains a listing of the mineral concessions currently held by DynaMéxico.
Under amendments to the Mining Act of México that came into effect on December 2006, the classifications of Mining Exploration Concessions and Mining Exploitation Concessions were replaced by a single classification of Mining Concessions valid for a renewable term of 50 years, commencing from the initial issuance date. To be converted into Mining Concessions at the time these amendments came into force, former exploration and exploitation concessions had to be in good standing at the time of conversion. All of the SJG concessions were converted to 50-year Mining Concessions at the time the amendments to the Mining Act came into effect. To renew the 50-year term, Mining Concessions must be in good standing at the time application is filed. An application for renewal must be filed within 5 years prior to expiration of the term.
To maintain Mining Concessions in good standing, the registered owner must (a) pay bi-annual mining duties (“assessment taxes”) in advance, by January 31 and July 31 each year, (b) file assessment work reports by May 30 each year, for the preceding year (some exception rules apply), and (c) file by January 31 each year, statistical reports on exploration / exploitation work conducted for the preceding year.
The Notice of Commencement of Production Activities and Annual Production Reports must be filed annually by January 31 each year for those concessions where mineral ore extraction is taking place. As a general provision, registered owners of Mining Concessions must follow environmental and labor laws and regulations in order to maintain their Mining Concessions in good standing.
As of the date of this Form 10-K, the 33 mining concessions comprising the SJG Property are in good standing with respect to the payment of taxes and the filing of assessment work obligations imposed by the Mining Act of México and its Regulations. Included among the 33 mining concessions are 32 currently registered in the sole name of DynaMéxico. DynaMéxico holds one mining concession (San Miguel t.183504) that in order to produce legal effects requires the consent or relinquishment of first rights of refusal from registered owners to the 50% undivided title. See the note following the table of mining concessions below, describing the steps needed to be taken by DynaMéxico to obtain title to the San Miguel mining concession.
Current Mining Concessions - San José de Gracia
(1) According to the records of the Mines Registry Office, the registered owners to 100% undivided title to the San Miguel (t.183504) mining concession are: Mar’a Trinidad Acosta Salazar (25%), Miguel López Medina (25%), Josefa González Castro (25%) and Otilia Tracy Vizcarra (25%). On October 17, 2000 and March 8, 2001, DynaMéxico signed with each of Miguel Lopez Medina and Josefa Gonzalez Castro, respectively, agreements for the transfer to DynaMéxico of 50% undivided title to the San Miguel (t.183504) mining concession (the “San Miguel Transfer Agreements”).
In respect to the San Miguel Transfer Agreements, DynaMéxico has been advised that in order for the San Miguel Transfer Agreements to produce legal effects and be eligible for registration before the Mines Registry Office, DynaMéxico is required to first obtain the legal consent to such transfers, or the written relinquishment of first rights of refusal, from Mar’a Trinidad Acosta Salazar and Otilia Tracy Vizcarra (or court-appointed estate executor). In addition to the San Miguel Transfer Agreements, DynaMéxico has entered into the following Promise to Sell and Purchase Agreements (the “San Miguel Promise to Sell and Purchase Agreements”):
(a) Promise to Sell and Purchase Agreement signed on March 8, 2001 among DynaMéxico and Maria Trinidad Acosta Salazar, the registered owner to 25% undivided title to the San Miguel (t.183504) mining concession, and
(b) Promise to Sell and Purchase Agreement signed on December 15, 2000 among DynaMéxico and Margarita Tracy Vizcarra, the sister of the deceased Otilia Tracy Vizcarra.
In respect to the San Miguel Promise to Sell and Purchase Agreements, DynaMéxico has been advised that:
(a) with respect to the Promise to Sell and Purchase Agreement signed on March 8, 2001 among DynaMéxico and Maria Trinidad Acosta Salazar, to contact Ms. Mar’a Trinidad Acosta Salazar to demand compliance with such agreement by executing the definitive transfer to DynaMéxico of the 25% undivided title to the San Miguel (t.183504) mining concession registered in her name, and
(b) with respect to the Promise to Sell and Purchase Agreement signed on December 15, 2000 among DynaMéxico and Margarita Tracy Vizcarra, the sister of the deceased Otilia Tracy Vizcarra, the estate of Otilia Tracy Vizcarra requires the appointment of a court-appointed executor that would be capable under Mexican law to formally grant the estate´s consent for the execution of the San Miguel Transfer Agreements, to relinquish the estate´s first rights of refusal or to request court approval for the transfer to DynaMéxico of the 25% undivided interest in the San Miguel (t.183504) mining concession registered in the name of the deceased Otilia Tracy Vizcarra.
Surface Lease Rights
In addition to the surface rights held by DynaMéxico pursuant to the Mining Act of México and its Regulations (Ley Minera y su Reglamento), DynaMineras maintains access and surface rights to the SJG Project pursuant to the 20-year Land Lease Agreement (above). The 20 Year Land Lease Agreement with the Santa Maria Ejido Community surrounding San Jose de Gracia is dated January 6, 2014 and continues through 2033. It covers an area of 4,399 hectares surrounding the main mineral resource areas of SJG and provides for annual lease payments by DynaMineras of $1,359,443 Pesos (approx. $74,000 USD as of April 10, 2018), commencing in 2014. Additionally, under the description of the 20 Year Land Lease, DynaMineras constructed a Medical Facility at SJG in year 2017.
The Land Lease Agreement provides DynaMineras with surface access to the core resource areas of SJG (4,399 hectares), and allows for all permitted mining, pilot production and exploration activities from the owners of the surface rights (Santa Maria Ejido community).
The Company expects DynaMineras will be successful in expanding the size and scope of the resources at SJG through continued drilling and development programs at San Pablo, Tres Amigos, La Ceceña, Palos Chinos, La Union, La Purisima, and La Prieta. The Company expects extensions to mineralization in all directions and down dip from the main target areas.
Mineral Reserves / No Known Reserves
Under U.S. standards, as set forth in SEC Industry Guide 7, mineralization may not be classified as a “reserve” unless a determination has been made that the mineralization could be economically and legally produced or extracted at the time the reserve determination is made. The SJG property is without known reserves. Mineral resources which are not classified as mineral reserves do not have “demonstrated economic viability.” The quantity of resources and the quality (grade) of resources reported as “Indicated” and “Inferred” mineral resources in the mineral resource estimate compiled for DynaMéxico is not disclosed in this Form 10-K. There has been insufficient exploration to define any mineral reserves on the property, and it is not certain if further exploration will result in the definition of mineral reserves.
Sierra Madre Gold-Silver Belt in México
San Jose de Gracia - History
Historical production records from San Jose de Gracia (“SJG”) reported 1,000,000 Oz gold production from a series of underground workings. The major areas report 471,000 Oz. produced at the La Purisima area of SJG, at an average grade of 66.7 g/t.; and 215,000 Oz. produced from the La Prieta area, at an average grade of 27.6 g/t. Mineralization at SJG has been traced on surface and underground over 15 sq. km.
DynaMéxico was formed in March 2000, for the purpose of acquiring the concessions comprising the SJG District, and to consolidate all ownership of SJG under DynaMéxico.
Lack of Historical Surface Disturbance or Contamination
Historical production at San Jose de Gracia occurred prior to the Mexican Revolution (pre-1910). The Company is not aware of any surface disturbance or contamination issues found on the surface or in the groundwater due to historical mining activities.
Since acquisition and consolidation of the project under DynaResource de Mexico SA de CV. (“DynaMéxico”), all activities conducted at San Jose de Gracia have been permitted in accordance with Mexico regulations, the specifics of which are described below:
On June 17, 2013, DynaResource de Mexico received from the Secretaria de Medio Ambiente Y Recursos Naturales (“Semarnat”), the federal environmental authority in Mexico, the approval and permission which allows for the rehabilitation and operation of the pilot mill facility at San Jose de Gracia (the “Semarnat Permit”). Under the terms of the Semarnat Permit, DynaMéxico is responsible for maintaining the San Jose de Gracia pilot mill facility, as well as the adjacent tailings pond area, in compliance with Semarnat regulations.
On September 30, 2013 DynaResource de Mexico also received from Semarnat, the approval and permission which allows for the exploitation and mining activities at the San Pablo Area of San Jose de Gracia (the “Semarnat Exploitation Permit”). Under the terms of the Semarnat Exploitation Permit, DynaMéxico’s exploitation and mining activities are restricted to the San Pablo Area of San Jose de Gracia.
Drilling - Exploration Programs (1997 - 2000)
A drill program was conducted at SJG in 1997 to 1998 by a prior majority owner. Approximately 6,172 meters drilling was completed in 63 core drill holes. Significant intercepts, including bonanza grades, outlined the down dip potential of the Northeast section (150 Meter NE to SW extent of the Drilling) of the Los Hilos to Tres Amigos Trend of SJG. Surface and underground sampling in 1999 to 2000 confirmed high grades in historic workings and surface exposures throughout the project area. These high grades outline the presence of mineralization shoots developed within the veins. The mineralized shoots appear to be controlled by dilational jogs and/or vein intersections. A total of 544 samples were collected in 1999 to 2000 and assayed an average 6.51 g/t gold.
Pilot Production Activities (2003 - 2006)
DynaMéxico, conducting activities through its operating sister companies DynaMineras and DynaOperaciones, mined high-grade veins at the San Pablo area of SJG from mid-2003 to June 2006. 18,250 Oz. gold was produced and sold from mill feed tonnage of 42,000 tonnes, at an average grade of approximately 15-20 g/t. Production costs were reported at approximately $175/Oz. gold in this small scale, pilot production operation. The small-scale mining and production activities at SJG consisted of improvements to an existing mill, including the installation of a gravity / flotation processing circuit, and initial test runs with tailings were completed in 2002. Actual mining at the high-grade San Pablo area of the property commenced in March 2003.
Suspension of Pilot Operations (2006)
The Company initiated the test mining and pilot mill operations in 2003 and, at that time, gold prices were depressed. Exploration funding opportunities, while available, were deemed to be too dilutive by Company management. Subsequently, in 2006, commodities prices were rising and the Company was able to negotiate acceptable financing in order to fund exploration activities. Therefore, the Company suspended its test mining and pilot mill operations in 2006 in order to focus on the exploration of the vast SJG District. While the test mining and pilot milling operations were considered successful (see results in the table above), small scale operations were not expected to provide the necessary capital in order to fund exploration of a project the size of SJG.
The earlier, limited-scope pilot operations provided significant benefits in terms of confirming production test mining and milling grades, metallurgy and process, efficiency of recoveries, and operational costs - all of which is valuable for larger scale production plans.
Earn In / Option Agreement - Financing of Drilling - Exploration Programs (2006 - 2011)
The Company entered into an Earn In / Option Agreement with Goldgroup Resources Inc., a subsidiary of Goldgroup Mining Inc., Vancouver, BC. (“Goldgroup”), dated September 1, 2006 (the “Goldgroup Earn In”). The terms of the Goldgroup Earn In provided for Goldgroup to contribute $18,000,000 financing to DynaMéxico, in stages over the 5-year period, for exploration expenditures at SJG, in exchange for 50% of the outstanding share capital of DynaMéxico. The Goldgroup Earn In was completed March 15, 2011, and Goldgroup held 50% of outstanding capital of DynaMéxico at that date.
On June 21, 2013, DynaResource acquired a Certificate for 300 Series “B” Variable Capital Shares of DynaMéxico, in exchange for the settlement of accounts receivable from DynaMéxico in the amount of $31,090,710 Mexican Pesos (approximately $2.4 M USD). After the issuance and receipt of the 300 Series B Shares, DynaUSA holds 80% of the total outstanding share capital of DynaMéxico.
Drilling programs (2007 - 2011)
Drilling programs completed by the Company’s subsidiaries produced a total of 298 drill holes covering 68,741 meters of drilling from 2007 through March 2011. Results of the drilling activity, including the results of previous drilling in 1997-1998, appear in an “SJG Drill Intercepts Summary File through 11-298”, as Exhibit 99.1 to our Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2011 filed with the SEC on August 22, 2011, and available on EDGAR at:
http://sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1111741/000112178111000241/ex99one.htm.
Additionally, the updated Drill Summary File is posted on the Company’s web site at www.dynaresource.com.
Magnetic and IP Surveys (2009)
Magnetic and IP (“Induced Polarization”) surveys were conducted throughout the SJG district in 2009, covering an area of approximately 15 Sq. kilometers. IP is the primary geophysical target at SJG, and is expected to identify pyrite-based mineralization hosting gold. Initial Survey Grid lines were located approximately perpendicular to inferred geologic strike. The data response from these grid lines indicate one or more IP sources that dip northwest. Additional grid lines were crossed with the initial lines, and appear to identify two separate IP sources. Grid lines to the South appear to indicate an IP source at > 250 Meters.
Correlation between ground magnetic and IP--In general the correlation between the Magnetic and IP response and data was excellent.
Correlation with recent Drilling Programs and known Mineralization--The data response of the surveys correlated to the recent drilling programs and to the areas of known mineralization at SJG was excellent. Considering this excellent correlation to known mineralization, additional areas of SJG showing similar data response could be indicative of additional target areas.
Identification of Additional Resource Target Areas--Significant survey responses were reported for the following areas and are projected for follow up drilling:
San Pablo-Up Dip; San Pablo-Displacement Zone;
Tres Amigos-Down Dip and Northwest; Tres Amigos-Extension Northeast;
Orange Tree-Down Dip; La Prieta
La Ceceña, Los Hilos, and Tepehauje;
Palos Chinos;
La Purisima; Down dip at Southeast end;
Argillic Zone; + 250 M. down dip;
Technical Report According to Canadian National Instrument 43-101 (2012)
In 2012, DynaMéxico commissioned Servicios y Proyectos Mineros (“SPM”) for the production of Technical Report 43-101 (“43-101”) at San Jose de Gracia. Additionally, DynaMéxico commissioned Mr. Robert Sandefur, a senior reserve analyst for Chlumsky, Armbrust & Meyer LLC, Lakewood, CO (“CAM”) to produce a mineral resource estimate for the 4 main vein systems at the property.
Parameters Used to Estimate the Mineral Resource Estimate--The data base for the San Jose de Gracia Project consists of 372 drill holes of which 361 are diamond drill holes (“DDH”) and the remaining 11 were reverse circulation holes “(RC”), with a total drilling of 75,878 meters. The NI 43-101 Mineral Resource Estimate, prepared in 2012, concentrates on four main mineralized vein systems at SJG: Tres Amigos, San Pablo, La Union, and La Purisima. Of the 372 drill holes, 368 were drilled to test these four main vein systems and the remaining four holes tested the Argillic Zone. Technical personnel of Minop S.A. de C.V. (“Minop”), a subsidiary (or affiliate) of Goldgroup Mining Inc., built three dimensional solids to constrain estimation to the interpreted veins in each swarm. The 172 holes most recently drilled (2009-2011), were allocated as follows: Tres Amigos (64 holes), San Pablo (49 holes), La Union (24 holes), La Purisima (32 holes) and Argillic Zone (3 holes). The data base also includes rock and chip sampling, regional stream sediment sampling, and IP Surveys.
Density--A total of 5,540 pieces of core were measured for specific gravity using the weight in air vs. weight in water method. This represents an additional 3,897 measurements taken in the 2009-11 drill seasons with density measurements taken from all mineral zones. Dried samples were coated with paraffin wax before being measured. The results tabulated have been sorted by lithology and mineralized veins. The average specific gravity of 5,051 wall rock samples was 2.59 while the average specific gravity for 489 samples of vein material is 2.68. CAM and Servicios y Proyectos Mineros have reviewed the procedures and results, and opine that the results are suitable for use in mineral resource estimation.
Mineral Resource Estimate - Construction of Wireframes--Mineral Resources were estimated by Mr. Sandefur within wireframes constructed by technical personnel of Minop. Minop was contracted by Mineras de DynaResource S.A. de C.V. (“DynaMineras”).
Mineral Resource Estimate - Explanation of Resource Estimation--Resource estimation was done in MineSight and MicroModel computer systems with only those composites that were inside the wireframe used in the estimate. Estimation was done using kriging with the omni-directional variogram derived from all the data in each area for gold using the relative variogram derived from the log variogram. High grades were restricted by capping the assays at a breakpoint based on the cumulative frequency curves. Estimation was done using search radii of 100 x 100 x 50 m “blocks” oriented subparallel to the general strike and dip of the vein system in each area. A sector search, corresponding to the faces of the search box with a maximum of two points per sector was used in estimation. A density of 2.68 based on within ‘vein density’ samples was used in the resource estimate. Within each of the four areas there are approximately 20 to 40 veins in the vein swarm. Resources were estimated by kriging using data from all veins in the swarm. In general, gold accounts for at least 80% of the value of contained metal at the project, so the variograms for gold were used in estimation of the four other metals.
The veins at San Jose de Gracia have been historically mined for many years and historic mined volumes are not available. The one exception is the approximate 42,000 tonnes of ore processed by DynaMéxico during its pilot production activities in 2003-2006. The resource table is not adjusted for any historic mining. To validate that historic mining had not significantly reduced the resource, CAM reviewed the database for all assays greater than 1 gram per ton gold that were next to missing values at the bottom of drill holes. Only four assays satisfying this criterion were found, and on the basis of this review, Mr. Sandefur does not believe that significant mining has occurred within the volumes defined by the wireframes.
Servicios y Proyectos Mineros performed a database review and considers that a reasonable level of verification has been completed, and that no material issues have been left unidentified from the drilling programs undertaken.
Mineral Resource Estimate and 43-101 Technical Report - Data Verification--Mr. Ramon Luna Espinoza (“Mr. Luna”) initially visited the San Jose de Gracia Project in November 2010 and conducted site inspections at SJG in November 2011 and January 2012. Mr. Sandefur conducted a site inspection of the SJG Project in January 2012. While at the Property in November 2011, Mr. Luna inspected the areas of Tres Amigos, La Prieta, Gossan Cap, San Pablo, La Union, and La Purisima, and historic mining sites. In January 2012, Mr. Sandefur and Mr. Luna inspected the areas of Tres Amigos, San Pablo, La Union, and La Purisima. Pictures of the areas were taken. Many of the drill pads for the drilling programs of 2007 to 2011 were clearly located and identified. Mr. Luna also inspected San José de Gracia’s core logging and storage facilities, the geology offices, the meteorological station, the plant nursery, and the mill. Mr. Sandefur also inspected San José de Gracia’s core logging and storage facilities.
The Company received from DynaMéxico on February 14, 2012, a National Instrument 43-101 Mineral Resource Estimate for San Jose de Gracia. The NI 43-101 Resource Estimate was prepared by Mr. Robert Sandefur, BS, MSc, P.E., a Qualified Person as defined under NI 43-101, and a senior reserve analyst for Chlumsky, Armbrust & Meyer LLC, Lakewood, CO (“CAM”). The Resource Estimate concentrates on four separate main vein systems at SJG: Tres Amigos, San Pablo, La Union, and La Purisima.
The mineral resource estimates prepared by Mr. Robert Sandefur for this Technical Report included Indicated Resources at Tres Amigos and San Pablo. Table summaries of Indicated and Inferred Resources are contained in the 2012 DynaMéxico-CAM Mineral Resource Estimate. The Resource Estimate has been filed, along with the Technical Report on SEDAR; but is not disclosed in this Form 10-K.
Selected Drill Hole Intercepts by Target Area (Excerpt from The Updated 2012 DynaMéxico Luna-CAM SJG Technical Report)
Tres Amigos
San Pablo
San Pablo East
La Purisima
Block Model Calculation in Surpac Software--The Company has compiled its manual calculation and internal interpretation of the mineralization at SJG defined by drilling and production to date. The Company has also built the block model of mineralization at SJG using Surpac (Gemcom) software. The current block model at SJG confirms mineralization at San Pablo, Tres Amigos, La Union, Palos Chinos, and La Purisima, with portions of the mineralization in a high-grade category, and including mineralization at San Pablo and Tres Amigos, and is consistent with the CAM SJG Mineral Resource Estimate described above. The Company will continue this Surpac modeling work as additional drill programs are planned and completed.
Exploration and Mining Permit Requirements (México)
In respect of permit requirements for mineral exploration and mining in México, the most relevant applicable laws, regulations and official technical norms are the following: The Federal Mining Act, and its Regulations, the Federal Environmental Protection and Ecological Equilibrium Act, and its Regulations, the Federal Sustainable Forestry Development Act and its Regulations, the Federal Explosives and Firearms Act, the National Waters Act and the Mexican Official Norm 120.
To carry out mineral exploration activities, holders of mining concessions in México are required to file at the offices of the Secretaria de Medio Ambiente Y Recursos Naturales, the Federal Environmental Authority in México (“SEMARNAT”) a “Notice of Commencement of Exploration Activities” under the guidelines of the Mexican Official Norm 120 (“Norm 120”). SEMARNAT is the office of the Federal Government of México responsible for the review and issuance of a Change of Soil Use Permit (“CSUP”), the review of a Technical Justification Study (referenced below) and the filing of Norm 120. Norm 120 is a notice to SEMARNAT only and has no processing time.
If contemplated mineral exploration activities fall outside of the parameters defined under Norm 120, a CSUP Application is required to be filed at the SEMARNAT under the guidelines of the Federal Sustainable Forestry Development Act and its Regulations. To meet the requirements for issuance of a CSUP, the applicant must also file a Technical Study (“Technical Justification Study”) to justify the change of soil use from forestry to mining, to demonstrate that biodiversity will not be compromised, and to demonstrate that there will be no soil erosion or water quality deterioration on completion of the mineral exploration activities.
As a pre-requisite for issuance of a CSUP, Article 118 of the Federal Sustainable Forestry Development Act provides for the posting of a bond to the Mexican Forestry Fund for remediation, restoration and reforestation of the areas impacted by the mineral exploration activities.
To carry out mining activities in México, holders of mining concessions are also required to file an “Environmental Impact Assessment Study” (“Environmental Impact Study”) under the guidelines of the Federal Environmental Protection and Ecological Equilibrium Act and its Regulations, in order to evaluate the environmental impact of the contemplated mining activities.
As a pre-requisite for approval of an Environmental Impact Study, the Federal Environmental Protection and Ecological Equilibrium Act and its Regulations require the posting of a bond to guarantee remediation and rehabilitation of the areas impacted by the mining activities.
If the use of explosives materials is required for execution of mineral exploration or mining activities, an Application for General Permit for Use, Consumption and Storage of Explosive (“Explosives Permit”) is required to be filed at the offices of the Secretariat of National Defense (“SEDENA”) under the guidelines of the Federal Explosives and Firearms Act.
Under the Federal Mining Act, holders of mining concessions in México have the right to the use of the water coming from the mining works. However, certification of water rights and/or issuance of water rights concessions are required from the National Water Commission (“CONAGUA”) under the guidelines of the National Waters Act.
DynaMéxico Permit Filings / Permits History (2003 - 2017)
●
On February 10, 2003, SEDENA granted DynaMéxico an Explosives Permit for use and storage of explosives materials in SJG.
●
In June 2006, DynaMéxico ceased use of explosives materials in its mining activities at SJG, and requested suspension of the Explosives Permit. The Explosives Permit has been temporarily suspended by SEDENA and DynaMéxico will be required to file a re-activation application to re-activate the Explosives Permit.
●
On June 28, 2010, DynaMéxico filed a Preventive Exploration Notice at the office of SEMARNAT in connection with contemplated mineral exploration activities at the La Prieta, San Pablo, La Pur’sima, La Unión, Tres Amigos and La Ceceña areas of the San José de Gracia Project.
●
On July 21, 2010, SEMARNAT authorized DynaMéxico to conduct the mineral exploration activities referenced in the Preventive Exploration Notice, for a term of 36 months, as SEMARNAT determined that such activities fall within the framework of Norm 120. SEMARNAT’s approval was subject to the following conditions: (a) DynaMéxico’s filing of a CSUP Application (referenced below) and approval thereof by SEMARNAT, and (b) posting of a bond in the amount of $134,487 Mexican Pesos to guarantee remediation and rehabilitation measures following the conclusion of the mineral exploration activities referenced in the Preventive Exploration Notice. The bond was timely posted by DynaMéxico.
●
On August 9, 2010, DynaMéxico filed a CSUP Application and a Technical Justification Study at the offices of SEMARNAT to carry out certain mineral exploration activities at the La Prieta, San Pablo, La Pur’sima, La Unión, Tres Amigos and La Ceceña areas of the San José de Gracia Project.
●
On December 20, 2010, SEMARNAT approved the CSUP Application and Technical Justification Study filed by DynaMéxico with respect to the San José de Gracia Project and authorized DynaMéxico to conduct mineral exploration activities on 5.463 hectares of the San José de Gracia Project for a term of 36 months.
●
On March 8, 2012, the Director of Water Administration of CONAGUA certified in writing the rights of DynaMéxico to use exploit and extract 1,000,000 cubic meters of water per year from the extraction infrastructure located in San José de Gracia. CONAGUA determined that DynaMéxico’s water rights are not subject to any water rights concession or any other water extraction restriction. Water extracted by DynaMéxico will be subject to applicable levies imposed by the Mexican tax authorities under applicable tax laws.
●
On June 17, 2013, DynaMéxico received from SEMARNAT, the approval and permission which allows for the rehabilitation and operation of the pilot mill facility at SJG ("the SEMARNAT-SJG Mill Permit," and, the "SEMARNAT Permit"). Under the terms of the SEMARNAT-SJG Mill Permit, DynaMéxico will be responsible to maintain the SJG pilot mill facility, and including the adjacent tailings pond area, in compliance with the regulations described in la Norma Oficial Mexicana ("NOM-141-SEMARNAT-2003).
●
On July 31, 2013, SEMARNAT authorized DynaMéxico to conduct the mineral exploration activities referenced in the Preventive Exploration Notice, for a term of an additional 18 months, extending the initial term of 36 months as SEMARNAT had determined on July 10, 2010. SEMARNAT determined that such activities fall within the framework of Norm 120.
●
On December 31, 2013, DynaMéxico received from SEMARNAT the approval and permission which allows for mining activities and the exploitation of the San Pablo area of San Jose de Gracia.
●
On January 6, 2014, DynaMineras entered into a 20 Year Land Lease Agreement with the Santa Maria Ejido Community surrounding San Jose de Gracia. The 20 Year Land Lease Agreement is dated January 6, 2014 and continues through 2033. It covers an area of 4,399 hectares surrounding the main mineral resource areas of SJG and provides for annual lease payments by DynaMineras of $1,359,443 Pesos (approx. $74,000 USD as of April 10, 2018), commencing in 2014. Additionally, under the description of the Land Lease Agreement, DynaMineras constructed a Medical Facility at SJG during 2017. The land lease agreement provides DynaMineras with surface access to the core resource areas of SJG (4,399 hectares), and allows for all permitted test mining, pilot production and exploration activities from the owners of the surface rights (Santa Maria Ejido community).
DynaMéxico Bonding Requirements (2010)
●
Under the Exploration Permit issued to DynaMéxico on July 21, 2010, SEMARNAT imposed upon DynaMéxico a bonding obligation in the amount of $134,487 Mexican Pesos to guarantee remediation and rehabilitation measures following the conclusion of the mineral exploration activities referenced in the Preventive Exploration Notice. The bond was timely posted by DynaMéxico.
●
Under the CSUP issued to DynaMéxico on December 20, 2010, SEMARNAT imposed upon DynaMéxico a bonding obligation of $116,911 Mexican Pesos for reforestation and remediation measures with respect to the San José de Gracia Project. The bond was timely posted by DynaMéxico.
Water Concession
The Company has secured the Water Rights Concession for the area surrounding SJG. The Director of Water Administration of the National Water Commission of México (CONAGUA) formally certified in writing the rights of DynaResource de México, S.A. de C.V. to legally “use”, exploit and extract 1,000,000 cubic meters of water per year from the DynaMéxico extraction infrastructure located within the perimeter of the mining concessions comprising the San Jose de Gracia Mining Property in Sinaloa State, México. CONAGUA determined that the DynaMéxico water rights are not subject to any water rights concession or any other water extraction restriction. Water extracted by DynaMéxico will be subject to applicable levies imposed by the Mexican tax authorities in accordance with current Mexican tax laws.
Test Underground Mining and Pilot Mill Operations (2015)
In July 2015, the Company commenced a capital investment program designed to increase tonnage and output from the test mining operations, and to increase volume and output through the pilot mill facility. Through DynaMineras, the Company was engaged in the implementation of this capital investment program from July through December 2015.
Capital Investment (2015)
The capital investment program consisted of a net total of $3,565,000 USD and is generally described below:
●
Contract Mining ($713,000); including $250,000 Deposit (advance for services), and $513,000 in direct mining costs, explosives, and payments to contractor;
●
Mine related costs ($290,000); including mine plan development, permits, assays, consulting, mine supplies, and equipment items expensed;
●
Mill and Camp ($613,000); Improvements to the Mill and Camp, including pre-operation expenses;
●
Personnel Costs ($673,000); including payroll and consulting expenses;
●
Equipment ($636,000); long term equipment purchases including transportation, mine loading and hauling, generators, compressors and pumps;
●
Overhead ($285,000); including legal expenses, consulting, and administration;
●
IVA ($272,000); Value added taxes paid, and refundable;
●
Land Use and Rental ($83,000);
Year 2017 Improvements and Expansion
During 2017 the Company initiated and completed the following capital projects at SJG to improve and expand test mining and pilot milling operations:
● Medical facility (SJG Clinic):
$107,500;
● Expanding camp, office, and infrastructures:
$145,500;
● Expanding tailings pond, installing liners:
$265,000;
● Improving, setting new foundation, and re-installing the Denver Mill: $257,500;
● Installing Mill #3:
$258,000;
● Machinery & Equipment: $200,000;
● Transportation:
$40,000;
Total:
$1,273,500;
Summary of Test Mining and Pilot Mill Operations for 2015, 2016, and 2017:
DynaMineras expects to continue to increase its test underground mining activity and pilot milling operations in 2018; and projects the increased output to 250 tons/day from the mine and mill during 2018.
Additional Test Mining and Mill Operations Disclosure
The flow sheet for obtaining and processing mineralized material is described below:
Contract Mining: Mineralize material is mined from San Pablo mine by the contract miner, and according to the formal mine plan developed by the Company.
Mining Patio: Freshly mined mineralized material is transported by the contract miner outside the San Pablo Mine to the mine patio;
Pilot Mill Facility - General Description and Flow Sheet;
Mill Patio: Mineralized material is transported by Company dump trucks and articulated dump truck to the mill patio.
Crushing Circuit: Freshly mined mineralized material is loaded from the mill patio into the crushing circuit, comprised of a jaw crusher and cone crusher; and 1/2” crushed material is fed by conveyor belt to the fine mineralized material bin. The mineralized material is then sent by conveyor belt to the primary ball mill, which is a Hardinge conical mill.
Hardinge Mill: The mineralized material is then ground to -100 mesh particle size; and then fed to a holding tank;
Holding Tank: The mineralized material is pumped from the holding tank to the cyclone;
Cyclone: The course material plus (-100 Mesh) is fed to the Ball Mill #2, the Denver Mill; and fine material less (-100 Mesh) is fed to another holding tank.
Fine Screening System (Sweco Screen): The fine mineralized material is fed from the holding tank to the Sweco Screen; the fine mineralized material less (-200 Mesh) is fed to the spirals; the oversized material is fed to Ball Mill# 2.
Denver Mill: All mineralized material reground in the Denver Mill, is then fed to the holding tank prior to the Cyclone.
Spiral Gravity Concentration: Approximately 25% of the mineralized material is fed from the spirals to the Wifley table. Approximately 75% of the mineralized material is fed from the spiral concentration to the flotation conditioning tank.
Wifley Shaking Table: The concentrate from the spirals feed the Wifley shaking table, producing a high-grade gravity concentrate. The high-grade gravity concentrate is bagged and shipped for sale. (There are no chemicals present in the gravity concentrate.) It is estimated that the gravity concentrate produced is approx. 40% of the total recovered gold; and estimated that a 300-400 g/t Au would be the final gravity concentrate grade.
Flotation Conditioning Tank: The tailings from spirals and from the Wifley table are fed to the flotation conditioning tank. A low calculation of chemicals is added, with metered feeder, directly to the flotation feed tank. Sodium sulfide, a granular solid, is added also to the agitated flotation feed tank.
Flotation Chemicals: The following chemicals are added to the flotation feed tank: Na2S (Sodium Sulfide), 400 g/mt (solid); Aero 343 Xanthate Collector 40-80 g/mt (liquid); Cytec 7249 conditioner 50 g/mt (liquid); Cytec 4037 Conditioner 20-40 g/mt (liquid); and Aerofroth 70 or 73 Frother 30 g/mt (liquid).
Rougher Flotation: The Rougher flotation consists of a bank of 8 flotation cells (or Hybrid float cell), which is fed by the conditioning tank. The rougher concentrate recovered from the rougher float cells or the first hybrid cell is bagged for shipment and sale. A very low percentage of chemicals remains in the rougher concentrate.
Scavenger and Cleaner Concentrate: The tailings of the rougher concentrate could be fed to the scavenger and cleaner float cells (or, a second hybrid cell). The cleaner concentrate would then be bagged and shipped for sale. A very low percentage of chemicals remains in the cleaner concentrate.
Circuit Tailings: The tailings from the flotation area are fed to the tailings impoundment area. Less than 10% of chemicals added at the conditioning tank remain in the tailings slurry. Chemicals do not appear in the water of the tailings; as confirmed by analysis.
Power: A 45 KW efficient diesel generator will supply power to the camp, mill lights and to the laboratory. Two 50 KW back-up diesel generators (Selmec, Kamag) are also available for camp use.
The mill primary generator is a 310 KW Cat Diesel and there is a 455 KW Cat Diesel mill back-up generator.
Diesel fuel is stored in a 10,000-liter storage tank that feeds the two large generators by gravity flow to a common 500-liter head tank. The fuel storage tank is contained within a secondary cement impoundment with controlled and oil-trapped drainage.
Electrical: The Company is in process of connecting electrical power sufficient to supply electrical power for the camp and mill.
ITEM 3.