ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
We rent approximately 1,606 square feet of office space located at Suite 408, 1199 West Pender Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada from ESO Uranium Corp. at a cost of approximately $1,500 per month. This rental is on a month-to-month basis with no formal agreements.
We do not own any real property. We currently hold 100% title in a major claim block totalling 1,293 unpatented mineral claims, covering approximately 25,860 acres located in Mineral County, Nevada (the “New York Canyon Claims”). We also hold 21 patented mineral claims covering an area of approximately 420 acres, located within the vicinity of the New York Canyon Claims area. We collectively refer to the New York Canyon Claims and the patented mineral claims as the “New York Canyon Project.”
NEW YORK CANYON PROJECT
Description of Property
New York Canyon Claims
The 1,293 unpatented lode mining claims were physically staked on the ground. Unpatented claims require annual maintenance fees of $140 per claim payable to the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”) by August 31 of each year. Additionally, the county requires recording fees of approximately $15 per claim each year. The claims are current and in good standing through August 31, 2012.
The acquisition of title to the claims was completed pursuant to the terms of the Property Option Agreement dated March 18, 2004 (the “Property Option Agreement”) among the Company and Nevada Sunrise LLC (“Nevada Sunrise”), Robert Weicker, Sharon Weicker, Kurt Schendel, and Tami Schendel (collectively, the “Optionors”).
Under the terms of the Property Option Agreement, we exercised our option to acquire the New York Canyon Claims by: (i) paying $460,000 to the Optionors; (ii) issuing 526,667 shares of our common stock to the Optionors; and (iii) incurring exploration expenditures of a minimum of $2,250,000 on the New York Canyon Claims. The Optionors also retained a 2% net smelter returns royalty (the “Royalty”) over any future production. We have the option to reduce the Royalty to 1% by making a lump sum payment of $1,000,000 to the Optionors.
In accordance with the terms of the Property Option Agreement and upon our acquisition of the New York Canyon Claims, Nevada Sunrise assigned to us its interest under two lease agreements. On October 9, 2004, Nevada Sunrise entered into a lease agreement with Tammy Gentry and Pat Hannigan pursuant to which it obtained a nine year lease over the Copper Queen #2 patented mineral claim. As a result of the assignment of this lease, we are required to pay $1,500 per quarter commencing on October 1, 2004. We have the option to acquire Copper Queen #2 by paying $50,000, of which the quarterly payments may be applied, to the lessors. As of the date of this Annual Report, we have paid $40,500 in lease payments which will be credited towards the total purchase price of $50,000.
In addition, on January 1, 2005, Nevada Sunrise entered into a lease agreement with Clifford DeGraw and Richard Markiewicz pursuant to which it obtained a seven year lease over the Mildred and Copper Queen #1 patented mineral claim. As a result of the assignment of these leases, we have acquired the Mildred and Copper Queen #1 patented claims by paying an aggregate $130,000 as follows: (i) $2,500 per quarter commencing on April 1, 2005 (which payments have been made); (ii) $3,500 per quarter commencing on April 1, 2006; (iii) $4,000 per quarter commencing on April 1, 2007; (iv) $5,000 per quarter commencing on April 1, 2008; and (v) $7,500 per quarter commencing on April 1, 2009. On April 1, 2011, we exercised our option to acquire the Mildred and Copper Queen #1 patented claims by virtue of making the final lease payment to the lessors.
Lease Agreement with Jaycor Mining Inc.
On July 21, 2004, we entered into a lease agreement (the “Jaycor Lease Agreement”) with Jaycor Mining, Inc. (“Jaycor”). Under the terms of the Lease Agreement, we were granted rights to explore and, if proved feasible, develop 18 patented mineral claims held by Jaycor (the “Jaycor Claims”). These rights were granted as a lease for an initial term of 15 years, and are renewable for a further 15 years.
As consideration for the lease of the Jaycor Claims, we were required to pay Jaycor the following amounts prior to the commencement of any future production activities: (i) $25,000 on execution of the Jaycor Lease Agreement; (ii) $1,000 monthly commencing on the first anniversary; (iii) $2,000 monthly commencing on the second anniversary; and (iv) $3,000 monthly commencing on the third anniversary and continuing for as long as the Jaycor Lease Agreement is in effect (collectively, the “Jaycor Minimum Payments”)
In addition to the Minimum Payments, we have issued an aggregate of 6,583 shares to Jaycor in accordance with the Jaycor Lease Agreement. As of the date of this Annual Report, we have made all required Minimum Payments and is in good standing under the Jaycor Lease Agreement.
The Jaycor Claims under the Lease Agreement are subject to an overriding royalty deed granted to Kookaburra Resources Ltd. (“Kookaburra”) by Jaycor. Upon commencement of production, we are required to pay Kookaburra a net smelter returns royalty of 1.75%, up to a maximum of $2,000,000. In addition, we have also agreed to pay Jaycor a net smelter return royalty of 0.5% until such time as Kookaburra has been paid $2,000,000, at which time the royalty payable to Jaycor will then increase to 1.5% . The 1.5% rate payable is subject to a maximum of $2,000,000, at which time the ongoing royalty payment to Jaycor will be reduced to 0.5% for as long as the Lease Agreement is in effect.
The Jaycor Claims are located in Sections 32, 33 and 34 T8N; R35E MDBM in Mineral County, Nevada and are recorded as follows:
The holders of patented minerals claims generally retain all mineral and property rights, and the permitting procedures for both exploration and development can be streamlined and fast tracked.
Figure 1 - New York Canyon Property
Location and Access, Climate, Local Resources, and Physiography
The New York Canyon Project is approximately five miles east of Luning and 30 miles east of Hawthorne, the seat of Mineral County, in the sparsely populated west central part of Nevada. The largest full-service city with daily commercial air flights to most major American cities is Reno, located 169 miles north-northwest of the New York Canyon Project via paved highway US95. Access to the New York Canyon Project from Hawthorne is via paved highway US95 for 25 miles to Luning and then by 5 miles of all-weather gravel road.
The New York Canyon Project is at the south end of the Gabbs Valley Range with part of the New York Canyon Project extending westward into Soda Spring Valley. The terrain is part of the “Basin and Range” physiographic province consisting of steep rugged hills at elevations from 5,500 to 7,000 feet separated by broad basins ranging from 4,600 to 5,500 feet elevation.
The climate is semi-arid with two seasons: a wet cold winter and a dry hot summer. The main period of snow occurs between November and March. Annual rainfall for the last several years has ranged from 2 to 6 inches per year with temperatures ranging from 25°F to 95°F. The prevailing vegetation consists of grasses, low shrubs (most commonly sagebrush) and occasional patches of pinion pine and juniper trees at higher elevations. The local economy is based largely on ranching and mining with many people employed by the Hawthorne Naval Ammunition Depot.
During the past twenty years, a number of mines have operated in this part of Nevada, mostly gold and silver mines with some by-product base metals. As a result, the community contains a small pool of experienced labor sufficient for the needs of many short-term mining operations.
History
The New York Canyon Project has a long history of exploration, development and production beginning with discovery of the copper oxide deposits in 1875. The district’s first recorded production occurred from 1906 to 1929 when the Wall Street Copper Company consolidated various holdings in the district and commenced copper production at the Anderson, Champion, Mayflower, New York, Turk, Vacation and Wall Street Mines. An estimated 8.9 million pounds of copper was recovered from approximately 110,000 tons of ore at an average grade of 5.5% copper during this period.
1965 to 1979 - A total of 107 exploration drill holes (98,433 feet) were drilled during 1965 to 1979 in the New York Canyon Project area, initially by Amax but primarily by Conoco Oil Company, who subsequently operated the Project from 1977 to 1981. Exploration was focused mainly on porphyry copper-molybdenum sulfide targets at the Copper Queen and Champion prospects. This historic drilling by Conoco, from 1977 to 1981, indicated 13.2 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.55% copper for the Longshot Ridge area and 142 million tons grading 0.35% and 0.015% molybdenum for the Copper Queen deposit.
In 1979, Conoco contracted Hazen Research, Inc. to conduct a preliminary testing program for copper recovery using sulfuric acid bottle roll leaching tests and flotation tests on drill core sample composites. Hazen prepared composites based on five rock types crushed to minus 0.5 inch size. Drill core from the Copper Queen deposit yielded recoveries ranging from 65% to 75% copper over the six-day leach period with acid consumptions of 160 pounds per ton for porphyry copper mineralized rock to 509 pounds of sulfuric acid (H2SO4) per ton of carbonate-rich host rock. Copper oxide material provided recoveries ranging from 75.0% to 84.45% from the six-day bottle roll test with corresponding acid consumption of 232 to 349 pounds H2SO4 per ton of ore.
1992 to 1997 - Kookaburra Resources Ltd. (“Kookaburra”) and its various joint venture partners - including Coca Mines and Phelps Dodge - conducted the next stage of exploration from 1992 to 1997, drilling 54 holes totaling 13,018 feet to test the Longshot Ridge and Copper Queen skarns. In 1993, Peter Cowdery, PhD., P.Eng. of CORE Engineering and Associates conducted an estimate of the mineralized material at the Longshot Ridge copper oxide deposit for Kookaburra Resources Ltd. The CORE technical report indicated 17.7 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.55% copper using a 0.23% copper cutoff.
Prior to our acquisition of the New York Canyon Project, Kookaburra commissioned Mountain States R & D International, Inc. to conduct a simulated vat leach test to determine copper recovery in relation to acid consumption on minus three-quarter inch copper mineralized material from Longshot Ridge. A 13.67 kilogram composite of typical copper oxide material was placed into a 5½ foot high column and leached with 25 gram per liter sulfuric acid for 19 days. Results of the test indicated a 39.41% copper recovery with total acid consumption of 174.7 pounds per ton of mineralized material.
General Geology
The New York Canyon Project lies within the central portion of the Walker Lane structural belt, a broad zone of northwest-southeast striking parallel to sub-parallel, right lateral strike-slip faults extending for more than 400 miles through western Nevada and into northern California. The structural belt was initiated during the Jurassic period, at which time a number of important porphyry copper deposits and related skarn deposits, such as Yerington, were formed. Volcanism and related hydrothermal mineralization, often of Tertiary age, are recognized along the length of this structural trend. Significant mining districts associated with the Walker Lane Belt, in addition to Yerington, include Comstock, Goldfield, Rawhide, Tonopah-Hall, Dome Hill and numerous other copper and/or gold-silver occurrences.
The New York Canyon area stratigraphy is comprised mostly of conformable marine sedimentary units of Triassic and Jurassic ages which are intruded by granitic rocks of Cretaceous age. Tertiary-age non-mineralized volcanic flows locally cover these older rocks on the hills and Quaternary-age alluvium and colluvium cover them in the valleys. At New York Canyon, the rocks are disrupted by structures mostly related to the Walker Lane structural belt. These structures provide conduits for mineralizing fluids and often subsequently disrupt mineralized zones.
The oldest rocks belong to the middle to late Triassic age Luning Formation, consisting predominately of dolomite, dolomitic limestone and limestone with minor shale, argillite and conglomerate. Project mapping and logging of drill holes indicate this sequence is approximately 2000 thinner in the Project area than its regionally mapped thickness of more than 10,000 feet. The Luning limestones are thin to medium bedded and intercalated with siltstones in the bottom 1000 feet of the sequence, and massive to thick bedded in the top 4000 feet of the sequence.
The late Triassic age Gabbs Formation conformably overlies the Luning Formation. The Gabbs Formation consists of three members: a thin bedded fossiliferous limestone, argillaceous limestone, and calcareous tuffaceous siltstone. The type locality of the Gabbs Formation is in New York Canyon, where its thickness is measured as 400 feet, but drill logs indicate it is up to 650 feet thick.
The Jurassic age Sunrise Formation conformably overlies the Gabbs Formation. The Sunrise Formation consists of five members with quartz latite porphyry flows near the base overlain by thin bedded limestones, siltstones, silty limestone, tuffaceous siltstone, shale and claystone totaling about 800 feet in thickness in the New York Canyon area.
The Jurassic age Dunlap Formation conformably overlies the Sunrise Formation. The Dunlap Formation is a 3000-foot thick sequence of basal conglomerate, limestones, clastic sediments, and volcanic flows of andesitic and rhyolitic composition.
The strata of New York Canyon are intruded by Jurassic to Cretaceous age multiphase domes, plugs, dikes and sills consisting primarily of diorite and granodiorite with areas of quartz monzonite, granite and other associated felsic rock types.
Numerous Tertiary age units (mostly Oligocene and Miocene age) consisting of mafic to felsic volcanics, volcanoclastics, flows, tuffs, tuffaceous sediments, and continental sediments locally overlie the older rocks. These lithologies are of varying thicknesses ranging from 100s of feet to more than 1000 feet.
Quaternary age deposits consisting of various alluvial and lacustrine sediments comprise the youngest units in the area and fill the valley bottoms and form pediments along the range fronts. These young units may be 200 feet or more thick.
Property Geology at New York Canyon
The upper New York Canyon area consists primarily of the Luning Formation which is overlain by the Gabbs and Sunrise Formations in the Longshot Ridge area. The Luning Formation exposed beneath the Longshot Ridge area consists of gray to tan colored, thickbedded limestone and dolomite. Felsic sills and dikes intrude all units in the area.
The Gabbs Formation at Longshot Ridge is extremely calc-silicate altered. It was originally a very thin bedded to laminated limestone and silty limestone intercalated with siltstone and shale. The Gabbs Formation is comprised of three members: (#1) the lowest member, which is 250 feet thick, consisting of thick black bioclastic limestone intercalated with siltstone, (#2) the middle member, 200 feet thick, consisting of predominately argillaceous limestone intercalated with calcareous and tuffaceous siltstone, and (#3) the upper member, from 0 to 200 feet thick, consisting of argillaceous limestone intercalated with siltstone. The black bioclastic carbonaceous limestone at the base of the Gabbs Formation is a distinct unit which provides a clear marker for the contact with the underlying Luning Formation.
The two lowest members of the Sunrise Formation at Longshot Ridge are also calcsilicate altered. The Sunrise consists of five members: (#1) the lowest member, 100 feet thick, consisting of argillaceous limestone intercalated with siltstone and some quartz latite porphyry flows near the base, overlain by (#2), 50 feet thick, consisting of thick-bedded fossiliferous limestone intercalated with siltstone and silty limestone, overlain by (#3), 250 feet thick, consisting of shale and siltstone, overlain by (#4), 200 feet thick, consisting of silty limestone and limestone, and capped by (#5), 200 feet thick, consisting of claystone and limestone.
The Dunlap formation, mentioned in the previous description of regional geology, is not present in the Longshot Ridge area. Similarly, only one of the Tertiary-age volcanic sequences exists along the flank of Longshot Ridge.
The intrusive rocks (Fi) on Longshot Ridge are primarily sills with some local dikes. Rock types mapped at the surface and encountered in drill holes consist of granodiorite porphyry, porphyritic quartz monzonite, quartz monzonite porphyry and quartz-feldspar porphyry. These sills and dikes are typically only 5 to 20 feet thick but are relatively common throughout the area.
Rock strata on Longshot Ridge average N75°E in strike dip about 35°. The rocks are severely faulted and folded. Drag and overturned features are common. The major faults are curvilinear with fairly high dip angles that commonly change along the strike of the structure. The faults generally trend either northeast or northwest, but there are some local faults that strike north and dip steeply east. For the most part, the faults appear to have normal displacements ranging from 50 to 200 feet.
Deposit Types at New York Canyon Project
Mineralization in the New York Canyon Project occurs principally as contact metasomatic copper skarn deposits and as possible copper porphyry deposits within intrusive bodies at depth beneath the skarns.
Contact metasomatic deposits include a variety of types such as those that are copper-rich, ironrich, tungsten-rich, etc. The deposits are commonly referred to as skarns when rich in copper and tactites when rich in tungsten. Minerals associated with the copper-rich skarn deposits typically include chalcopyrite, bornite, magnetite, specularite, pyrite, pyrrhotite, sphalerite, and molybdenite. Alteration associated with the skarn deposits converts limestone and limy sediments to higher temperature calc-silicate minerals consisting of garnet, epidote, diopside, tremolite and calcite.
Skarn deposits are always adjacent to small to moderate sized intrusive bodies of intermediate composition such as monzonite and granodiorite. These intrusive bodies - occurring mainly as sills, dikes, plugs or stocks - are the sources for the mineralizing and altering hydrothermal fluids and for the heat that drives the fluids. Skarn mineralization develops along specific altered beds of carbonate rock in zones of strong deformation or faulting adjacent to the intrusive bodies.
The New York Canyon copper skarns closely fit these descriptions. The skarns either consist mostly of oxidized minerals, as at Longshot Ridge, or they consist of both oxidized and sulfide minerals as at the Champion prospect west of Longshot Ridge.
Skarn type copper deposits are occasionally associated with larger intrusive bodies that are hosts for porphyry type copper-molybdenum deposits, such as the major Carr Fork copper skarns associated with the world-class Bingham Canyon porphyry copper deposit in Utah. Sizes can range from 10 million to 100 million tons or more with grades of 1% to 2% Cu. Associated metallic minerals include chalcopyrite, bornite, magnetite, specularite, pyrite, pyrrhotite, sphalerite, and molybdenite. Other examples of significant skarn deposits associated with large porphyry-copper deposits include Santa Rita-Pinos Altos in New Mexico, Mason Valley-Copper Canyon in Nevada, and Mission-Pima in Arizona.
Porphyry-type copper-molybdenum deposits are closely associated with and related to moderate sized intrusive rock bodies of intermediate to felsic composition. Porphyry-type mineralization consists of disseminated sulfides and crosscutting stockwork quartz-sulfide veins or veinlets occurring within the intrusive body and extending outward into the surrounding rocks. The intrusive bodies are commonly 0.3 to 1 mile or more across and their emplacement produces large volumes of altered and intensely fractured ground.
At Copper Queen, the westernmost New York Canyon target, known mineralization, incompletely explored to date, consists of both non-oxidized copper sulfide skarns and potential porphyry-type copper-molybdenum sulfides in the underlying intrusive body. The porphyry mineralization remains an exploration target of possible large size based on (1) the widespread occurrences of oxide copper showings on the surface, (2) limited geophysical surveys, (3) apparent doming of the overlying sediments, and (4) the district’s location within the Walker Lane structural belt which hosts several large porphyry systems such as Yerington to the northwest and Hall Mountain to the southeast. Exploration targets for the project might range from 150 million to 400 million tons as grades of 0.4% to 0.5% copper with possible credits in molybdenum.
Mineralization at New York Canyon Project
Mineralization in the New York Canyon Project consists of three principal copper target areas: Longshot Ridge on the east, Champion in the center, and Copper Queen on the west. These target areas are aligned along a west-northwest trend that probably reflects deeper basement structures.
The Longshot Ridge and Champion prospects both contain numerous widespread showings of copper skarn mineralization exposed in surface outcrops and in old mine workings. In contrast, the Copper Queen prospect has no exposed mineralization at the surface but contains copper sulfide skarn at depth and an incompletely tested copper-molybdenum sulfide porphyry system at greater depth. Recent exploration in the New York Canyon Project has focused mainly on the extensive oxide copper skarn mineralization at Longshot Ridge. This mineralization is the subject of this report.
Hydrothermal alteration and mineralization at Longshot Ridge has formed copper-rich skarn in porous and permeable zones within sedimentary rock strata of the Luning, Gabbs and Sunrise Formations. Additionally copper-rich stockwork veinlets in permeable fractures occur in some of the felsic porphyry intrusive dikes and sills that intrude the rock strata. The alteration associated with the intrusive bodies consists of argillization, phyllic, and silicification which are typical for rocks of this type.
The oxide copper minerals abundantly present at Longshot Ridge are apparently products of the supergene weathering and oxidation of primary copper sulfide minerals which were present in the original skarn. The copper mineralization consists almost entirely of secondary copper minerals, principally malachite, azurite, chrysocolla and copper wad. Additionally, some copper-rich limonite (goethite) is reported. A fairly common greenish clay alteration mineral is thought to be a zinc-bearing clay. Because limestones tend to buffer the solutions that carry copper in a supergene environment, the copper weathered from sulfides in the skarn migrates to the non-skarn limestone units where it may be enriched by as much as 300 to 400 percent.
About 90 percent of the Longshot Ridge mineralization is within the two upper units of the Gabbs Formation. Drilling results indicate that the strongest, thickest and most continuous mineralization occurs in a northeast-trending zone, 200 feet wide by 1300 feet long, which is crossed by two northwest-trending structurally-controlled high grade zones, each about 100 feet wide and from 400 to 700 feet long. Mineralization in these trends is from 100 feet to 200 feet thick and covers an area of 500,000 square feet down to a depth of 350 feet, using a 0.30% Cu/ft cutoff. Within this area are many smaller higher-grade zones. A comparison of adjacent holes and twins of previously drilled holes indicates this copper mineralization has good continuity.
The copper skarns and supergene enriched zones are relatively flat lying to only gently dipping (less than 30º dip to the south). For this reason, the thicknesses of mineralization intersected by the vertical holes drilled to test this system represent the approximate true thicknesses of the mineralization.
Luning Formation - these carbonates consist primarily of dolomite and limestone. Alteration associated with these rocks includes a skarn mineral suite consisting primarily of serpentine, talc, garnet, magnetite, and locally diopside. The serpentine and talc minerals in skarn form sinuous veins along the structures within the dolomite and are very diagnostic of skarn formation in dolomite. Due to the massive nature of the Luning Formation, the altering and mineralizing solutions closely followed high-angle cross-cutting structures and formed limited skarn halos with only small areas of moderately high grade copper mineralization.
The Luning also has some small local zones of hematite and dolomite containing jasperoid veins a few feet thick. These consist of fine-grained silica, hematite, goethite, limonite and copper oxides. Historically, all the higher-grade copper shipped from this district during World War I was from the copper skarns in the Luning, not from the copper skarns in the Gabbs.
Gabbs Formation - The principal host for the Longshot Ridge copper skarn deposits are impure thin-bedded sandy limestone and siltstone in the upper two units of the Gabbs Formation. The alteration associated with these rocks is either a skarn mineral suite consisting of garnet, diopside and magnetite in the limestone, or is hornfels developed in the siltstone. The copper mineralization is much more widespread, but lower grade for the reasons stated in the previous Luning skarn description. The diopside-rich Gabbs skarns are more abundantly fractured and mineralized due to the brittle nature of diopside, and for this reason these skarns are slightly higher grade than the garnet-rich skarn. Commonly the Gabbs skarns are only a few feet thick (5 to 15 feet), but there are many of them.
The lowest Gabbs unit, a carbonaceous bioclastic limestone, is the location of the “marble line,” which is the alteration boundary between marbleized and calc-silicate altered limestone. This unit rarely forms skarns. The upper two units are hosts for the plentiful skarns and hornfels formed when the hydrothermal solutions traveled up structures and outward along permeable units. These same structures and permeable beds were later intruded by granodiorite porphyry dikes and sills. The intrusive bodies proximal to the skarns are most commonly sills but dikes are locally present.
Sunrise Formation - The two lowest sedimentary units of the Sunrise Formation are impure thin-bedded sandy limestone and siltstone which are altered and mineralized. The alteration occurs as either a skarn mineral suite consisting of garnet, diopside and magnetite in the limestone, or as hornfels developed in the siltstone. The copper mineralization is much more widespread, but lower grade for the reasons stated above in the previous Luning skarn description. The diopside-rich skarns are more abundantly fractured and mineralized due to the brittle nature of diopside and for this reason these skarns are slightly higher grade than the garnet-rich skarns. The skarns in the Sunrise Formation are commonly very thick (50 feet). The largest of these is the Mayflower Mine, which was mined on a fairly large scale. This thick skarn is capped by a thick hornfels.
Current Exploration Program
Further exploration is recommended for the New York Canyon Project. A two-phase exploration program is recommended to effectively test the property. Phase One of this program will consist of re-analysis of 2006 drilling, additional metallurgical testwork, and environmental base line studies. If results of this work are favorable, then the Phase Two program of definition drilling, permitting and scoping studies will follow.
The estimated costs of the Phase One program are detailed in following table and include:
re-analysis of 2006 Longshot Ridge drill pulps, duplicate samples, blank samples and standards by an independent laboratory to determine the correct copper values;
acquiring representative mineralized material at Longshot Ridge for metallurgical testwork samples to determine the optimal copper beneficiation process;
initiate environmental base line studies for permitting advanced exploration.
A budget of $0.6 million will be necessary to support the Phase One exploration program recommended above. The estimated costs of the Phase One program are detailed in following table.
We commenced the Phase One exploration program in July 2011 and anticipate that it will be completed in December, 2011.
The estimated costs of the Phase Two program are detailed in following table and include:
definition drilling, permitting and scoping studies designed to advance the Longshot Ridge project to a pre- feasibility stage;
drill-testing geophysical targets generated from the IP survey and other geological targets in the Copper Queen and Champion areas;
continuation of metallurgical testwork to refine the optimal copper beneficiation process for completion of a pre- feasibility study.
A budget of $3.6 million will be necessary to support the Phase One and Phase Two exploration programs recommended above. Our ability to commence and complete Phase Two of our exploration program is subject to our obtaining substantial financing, of which there is no assurance.
ITEM 3.