ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
We rent approximately 1,606 square feet of office space located at Suite 408 - 1199 West Pender Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada from ESO Uranium Corp. at a cost of approximately $1,500 per month. This rental is on a month-to-month basis with no formal agreements.
We currently do not own any real property. We currently hold 100% title in two major claim blocks comprising a total of 1,332 mineral claims, covering approximately 27,440 acres in Mineral County, Nevada (the “New York Canyon Claims”). We also hold 21 patented mineral claims covering an area of approximately 420 acres, located within the vicinity of the New York Canyon Claims area. We collectively refer to the New York Canyon Claims and the patented mineral claims as the “New York Canyon Project.”
NEW YORK CANYON PROJECT
We hold 100% title to our New York Canyon Claims, subject to certain royalties, and pursuant to various lease agreements, we were granted a seven year lease to explore and develop the Copper Queen #2 patented mineral claim, a nine year lease to explore and develop the Mildred and Copper Queen #1 patented mineral claims and a 15 year lease to explore and develop the Jaycor Claims.
Our New York Canyon Claims consist of two major claim blocks covering a total of 1,332 mineral claims, covering approximately 27,440 acres located in Mineral County, Nevada. We refer to the first block of claims as the "Copper Queen Claims,” and the second contiguous block of claims as the "Longshot Ridge Claims.” Further, we hold 21 patented mineral claims covering an area of approximately 420 acres, located within the vicinity of the New York Canyon Claims.
Figure 1 - New York Canyon Property
Location and Access, Climate, Local Resources, and Physiography
The New York Canyon Project is approximately five miles east of Luning (population 87) and 30 miles east of Hawthorne (population 3,875), the Mineral County seat, in the sparsely populated westcentral part of Nevada. The largest full-service city with daily commercial air flights to most major American cities is Reno (population 183,000), located 160 miles north-northwest of the New York Canyon Project via paved highway US95. Access to the Project from Hawthorne is via paved highway US95 for 25 miles to Luning and then by 5 miles of all-weather gravel road.
The New York Canyon Project is at the south end of the Gabbs Valley Range with part of the Project extending westward into Soda Spring Valley. The terrain is part of the “Basin and Range” physiographic province consisting of steep rugged hills at elevations from 5,500 to 7,000 feet separated by broad basins ranging from 4,600 to 5,500 feet elevation.
The climate is semi-arid with two seasons: a wet cold winter and a dry hot summer. The main period of snow occurs between November and March. Annual rainfall for the last several years has ranged from 2 to 6 inches per year with temperatures ranging from 25°F to 95°F. The prevailing vegetation consists of grasses, low shrubs (most commonly sagebrush) and occasional patches of pinion pine and juniper trees at higher elevations. The local economy is based largely on ranching and mining with many people employed by the Hawthorne Naval Ammunition Depot.
A number of mines have operated in this part of Nevada during the past twenty years, mostly gold and silver mines with some by-product base metals. As a result, the community contains a small pool of experienced labor sufficient for the needs of many short-term mining operations.
History
The New York Canyon Project has a long history of exploration, development and production beginning with discovery of the copper oxide deposits in 1875. The district’s first recorded production occurred from 1906 to 1929 when the Wall Street Copper Company consolidated various holdings in the district and commenced copper production at the Anderson, Champion, Mayflower, New York, Turk, Vacation and Wall Street Mines. An estimated 8.9 million pounds of copper was recovered from approximately 110,000 tons of ore at an average grade of 5.5% copper during this period.
1965 to 1979 - A total of 107 exploration drill holes (98,433 feet) were drilled during 1965 to 1979 in the New York Canyon Project area, initially by Amax but primarily by Conoco Oil Company, who subsequently operated the Project from 1977 to 1981. Exploration was focused mainly on porphyry copper-molybdenum sulfide targets at the Copper Queen and Champion prospects. This historic drilling by Conoco, from 1977 to 1981, indicated 13.2 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.55% copper for the Longshot Ridge area and 142 million tons grading 0.35% and 0.015% molybdenum for the Copper Queen deposit.
In 1979, Conoco contracted Hazen Research, Inc. to conduct a preliminary testing program for copper recovery using sulfuric acid bottle roll leaching tests and flotation tests on drill core sample composites. Hazen prepared composites based on five rock types crushed to minus 0.5 inch size. Drill core from the Copper Queen deposit yielded recoveries ranging from 65% to 75% copper over the six-day leach period with acid consumptions of 160 pounds per ton for porphyry copper mineralized rock to 509 pounds of sulfuric acid (H2SO4) per ton of carbonate-rich host rock. Copper oxide material provided recoveries ranging from 75.0% to 84.45% from the six-day bottle roll test with corresponding acid consumption of 232 to 349 pounds H2SO4 per ton of ore.
1992 to 1997 - Kookaburra Resources Ltd. (“Kookaburra”) and its various joint venture partners - including Coca Mines and Phelps Dodge - conducted the next stage of exploration from 1992 to 1997, drilling 54 holes totaling 13,018 feet to test the Longshot Ridge and Copper Queen skarns. In 1993, Peter Cowdery, PhD., P.Eng. of CORE Engineering and Associates conducted an estimate of the mineralized material at the Longshot Ridge copper oxide deposit for Kookaburra Resources Ltd. The CORE technical report indicated 17.7 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.55% copper using a 0.23% copper cutoff.
Prior to our acquisition of the New York Canyon Project, Kookaburra commissioned Mountain States R & D International, Inc. to conduct a simulated vat leach test to determine copper recovery in relation to acid consumption on minus three-quarter inch copper mineralized material from Longshot Ridge. A 13.67 kilogram composite of typical copper oxide material was placed into a 5½ foot high column and leached with 25 gram per liter sulfuric acid for 19 days. Results of the test indicated a 39.41% copper recovery with total acid consumption of 174.7 pounds per ton of mineralized material.
General Geology
The New York Canyon Project lies within the central portion of the Walker Lane structural belt, a broad zone of northwest-southeast striking parallel to sub-parallel, right lateral strike-slip faults extending for more than 400 miles through western Nevada and into northern California. The structural belt was initiated during the Jurassic period, at which time a number of important porphyry copper deposits and related skarn deposits, such as Yerington, were formed. Volcanism and related hydrothermal mineralization, often of Tertiary age, are recognized along the length of this structural trend. Significant mining districts associated with the Walker Lane Belt, in addition to Yerington, include Comstock, Goldfield, Rawhide, Tonopah-Hall, Dome Hill and numerous other copper and/or gold-silver occurrences.
The New York Canyon area stratigraphy is comprised mostly of conformable marine sedimentary units of Triassic and Jurassic ages which are intruded by granitic rocks of Cretaceous age. Tertiary-age non-mineralized volcanic flows locally cover these older rocks on the hills and Quaternary-age alluvium and colluvium cover them in the valleys. At New York Canyon, the rocks are disrupted by structures mostly related to the Walker Lane structural belt. These structures provide conduits for mineralizing fluids and often subsequently disrupt mineralized zones.
The oldest rocks belong to the middle to late Triassic age Luning Formation, consisting predominately of dolomite, dolomitic limestone and limestone with minor shale, argillite and conglomerate. Project mapping and logging of drill holes indicate this sequence is approximately 2000 thinner in the Project area than its regionally mapped thickness of more than 10,000 feet. The Luning limestones are thin to medium bedded and intercalated with siltstones in the bottom 1000 feet of the sequence, and massive to thick bedded in the top 4000 feet of the sequence.
The late Triassic age Gabbs Formation conformably overlies the Luning Formation. The Gabbs Formation consists of three members: a thin bedded fossiliferous limestone, argillaceous limestone, and calcareous tuffaceous siltstone. The type locality of the Gabbs Formation is in New York Canyon, where its thickness is measured as 400 feet, but drill logs indicate it is up to 650 feet thick.
The Jurassic age Sunrise Formation conformably overlies the Gabbs Formation. The Sunrise Formation consists of five members with quartz latite porphyry flows near the base overlain by thin bedded limestones, siltstones, silty limestone, tuffaceous siltstone, shale and claystone totaling about 800 feet in thickness in the New York Canyon area.
The Jurassic age Dunlap Formation conformably overlies the Sunrise Formation. The Dunlap Formation is a 3000-foot thick sequence of basal conglomerate, limestones, clastic sediments, and volcanic flows of andesitic and rhyolitic composition.
The strata of New York Canyon are intruded by Jurassic to Cretaceous age multiphase domes, plugs, dikes and sills consisting primarily of diorite and granodiorite with areas of quartz monzonite, granite and other associated felsic rock types.
Numerous Tertiary age units (mostly Oligocene and Miocene age) consisting of mafic to felsic volcanics, volcanoclastics, flows, tuffs, tuffaceous sediments, and continental sediments locally overlie the older rocks. These lithologies are of varying thicknesses ranging from 100s of feet to more than 1000 feet.
Quaternary age deposits consisting of various alluvial and lacustrine sediments comprise the youngest units in the area and fill the valley bottoms and form pediments along the range fronts. These young units may be 200 feet or more thick.
Property Geology at New York Canyon
The upper New York Canyon area consists primarily of the Luning Formation which is overlain by the Gabbs and Sunrise Formations in the Longshot Ridge area. The Luning Formation exposed beneath the Longshot Ridge area consists of gray to tan colored, thickbedded limestone and dolomite. Felsic sills and dikes intrude all units in the area.
The Gabbs Formation at Longshot Ridge is extremely calc-silicate altered. It was originally a very thin bedded to laminated limestone and silty limestone intercalated with siltstone and shale. The Gabbs Formation is comprised of three members: (#1) the lowest member, which is 250 feet thick, consisting of thick black bioclastic limestone intercalated with siltstone, (#2) the middle member, 200 feet thick, consisting of predominately argillaceous limestone intercalated with calcareous and tuffaceous siltstone, and (#3) the upper member, from 0 to 200 feet thick, consisting of argillaceous limestone intercalated with siltstone. The black bioclastic carbonaceous limestone at the base of the Gabbs Formation is a distinct unit which provides a clear marker for the contact with the underlying Luning Formation.
The two lowest members of the Sunrise Formation at Longshot Ridge are also calcsilicate altered. The Sunrise consists of five members: (#1) the lowest member, 100 feet thick, consisting of argillaceous limestone intercalated with siltstone and some quartz latite porphyry flows near the base, overlain by (#2), 50 feet thick, consisting of thick-bedded fossiliferous limestone intercalated with siltstone and silty limestone, overlain by (#3), 250 feet thick, consisting of shale and siltstone, overlain by (#4), 200 feet thick, consisting of silty limestone and limestone, and capped by (#5), 200 feet thick, consisting of claystone and limestone.
The Dunlap formation, mentioned in the previous description of regional geology, is not present in the Longshot Ridge area. Similarly, only one of the Tertiary-age volcanic sequences exists along the flank of Longshot Ridge.
The intrusive rocks (Fi) on Longshot Ridge are primarily sills with some local dikes. Rock types mapped at the surface and encountered in drill holes consist of granodiorite porphyry, porphyritic quartz monzonite, quartz monzonite porphyry and quartz-feldspar porphyry. These sills and dikes are typically only 5 to 20 feet thick but are relatively common throughout the area.
Rock strata on Longshot Ridge average N75°E in strike dip about 35°. The rocks are severely faulted and folded. Drag and overturned features are common. The major faults are curvilinear with fairly high dip angles that commonly change along the strike of the structure. The faults generally trend either northeast or northwest, but there are some local faults that strike north and dip steeply east. For the most part, the faults appear to have normal displacements ranging from 50 to 200 feet.
Deposit Types at New York Canyon Project
Mineralization in the New York Canyon Project occurs principally as contact metasomatic copper skarn deposits and as possible copper porphyry deposits within intrusive bodies at depth beneath the skarns.
Contact metasomatic deposits include a variety of types such as those that are copper-rich, ironrich, tungsten-rich, etc. The deposits are commonly referred to as skarns when rich in copper and tactites when rich in tungsten. Minerals associated with the copper-rich skarn deposits typically include chalcopyrite, bornite, magnetite, specularite, pyrite, pyrrhotite, sphalerite, and molybdenite. Alteration associated with the skarn deposits converts limestone and limy sediments to higher temperature calc-silicate minerals consisting of garnet, epidote, diopside, tremolite and calcite.
Skarn deposits are always adjacent to small to moderate sized intrusive bodies of intermediate composition such as monzonite and granodiorite. These intrusive bodies - occurring mainly as sills, dikes, plugs or stocks - are the sources for the mineralizing and altering hydrothermal fluids and for the heat that drives the fluids. Skarn mineralization develops along specific altered beds of carbonate rock in zones of strong deformation or faulting adjacent to the intrusive bodies.
The New York Canyon copper skarns closely fit these descriptions. The skarns either consist mostly of oxidized minerals, as at Longshot Ridge, or they consist of both oxidized and sulfide minerals as at the Champion prospect west of Longshot Ridge.
Skarn type copper deposits are occasionally associated with larger intrusive bodies that are hosts for porphyry type copper-molybdenum deposits, such as the major Carr Fork copper skarns associated with the world-class Bingham Canyon porphyry copper deposit in Utah. Sizes can range from 10 million to 100 million tons or more with grades of 1% to 2% Cu. Associated metallic minerals include chalcopyrite, bornite, magnetite, specularite, pyrite, pyrrhotite, sphalerite, and molybdenite. Other examples of significant skarn deposits associated with large porphyry-copper deposits include Santa Rita-Pinos Altos in New Mexico, Mason Valley-Copper Canyon in Nevada, and Mission-Pima in Arizona.
Porphyry-type copper-molybdenum deposits are closely associated with and related to moderate sized intrusive rock bodies of intermediate to felsic composition. Porphyry-type mineralization consists of disseminated sulfides and crosscutting stockwork quartz-sulfide veins or veinlets occurring within the intrusive body and extending outward into the surrounding rocks. The intrusive bodies are commonly 0.3 to 1 mile or more across and their emplacement produces large volumes of altered and intensely fractured ground.
At Copper Queen, the westernmost New York Canyon target, known mineralization, incompletely explored to date, consists of both non-oxidized copper sulfide skarns and potential porphyry-type copper-molybdenum sulfides in the underlying intrusive body. The porphyry mineralization remains an exploration target of possible large size based on (1) the widespread occurrences of oxide copper showings on the surface, (2) limited geophysical surveys, (3) apparent doming of the overlying sediments, and (4) the district’s location within the Walker Lane structural belt which hosts several large porphyry systems such as Yerington to the northwest and Hall Mountain to the southeast. Exploration targets for the project might range from 150 million to 400 million tons as grades of 0.4% to 0.5% copper with possible credits in molybdenum.
Mineralization at New York Canyon Project
Mineralization in the New York Canyon Project consists of three principal copper target areas: Longshot Ridge on the east, Champion in the center, and Copper Queen on the west. These target areas are aligned along a west-northwest trend that probably reflects deeper basement structures.
The Longshot Ridge and Champion prospects both contain numerous widespread showings of copper skarn mineralization exposed in surface outcrops and in old mine workings. In contrast, the Copper Queen prospect has no exposed mineralization at the surface but contains copper sulfide skarn at depth and an incompletely tested copper-molybdenum sulfide porphyry system at greater depth. Recent exploration in the New York Canyon Project has focused mainly on the extensive oxide copper skarn mineralization at Longshot Ridge. This mineralization is the subject of this report.
Hydrothermal alteration and mineralization at Longshot Ridge has formed copper-rich skarn in porous and permeable zones within sedimentary rock strata of the Luning, Gabbs and Sunrise Formations. Additionally copper-rich stockwork veinlets in permeable fractures occur in some of the felsic porphyry intrusive dikes and sills that intrude the rock strata. The alteration associated with the intrusive bodies consists of argillization, phyllic, and silicification which are typical for rocks of this type.
The oxide copper minerals abundantly present at Longshot Ridge are apparently products of the supergene weathering and oxidation of primary copper sulfide minerals which were present in the original skarn. The copper mineralization consists almost entirely of secondary copper minerals, principally malachite, azurite, chrysocolla and copper wad. Additionally, some copper-rich limonite (goethite) is reported. A fairly common greenish clay alteration mineral is thought to be a zinc-bearing clay. Because limestones tend to buffer the solutions that carry copper in a supergene environment, the copper weathered from sulfides in the skarn migrates to the non-skarn limestone units where it may be enriched by as much as 300 to 400 percent.
About 90 percent of the Longshot Ridge mineralization is within the two upper units of the Gabbs Formation. Drilling results indicate that the strongest, thickest and most continuous mineralization occurs in a northeast-trending zone, 200 feet wide by 1300 feet long, which is crossed by two northwest-trending structurally-controlled high grade zones, each about 100 feet wide and from 400 to 700 feet long. Mineralization in these
trends is from 100 feet to 200 feet thick and covers an area of 500,000 square feet down to a depth of 350 feet, using a 0.30% Cu/ft cutoff. Within this area are many smaller higher-grade zones. A comparison of adjacent holes and twins of previously drilled holes indicates this copper mineralization has good continuity.
The copper skarns and supergene enriched zones are relatively flat lying to only gently dipping (less than 30º dip to the south). For this reason, the thicknesses of mineralization intersected by the vertical holes drilled to test this system represent the approximate true thicknesses of the mineralization.
Lunig Formation - these carbonates consist primarily of dolomite and limestone. Alteration associated with these rocks includes a skarn mineral suite consisting primarily of serpentine, talc, garnet, magnetite, and locally diopside. The serpentine and talc minerals in skarn form sinuous veins along the structures within the dolomite and are very diagnostic of skarn formation in dolomite. Due to the massive nature of the Luning Formation, the altering and mineralizing solutions closely followed high-angle cross-cutting structures and formed limited skarn halos with only small areas of moderately high grade copper ineralization.
The Luning also has some small local zones of hematite and dolomite containing jasperoid veins a few feet thick. These consist of fine-grained silica, hematite, goethite, limonite and copper oxides. Historically, all the higher-grade copper shipped from this district during World War I was from the copper skarns in the Luning, not from the copper skarns in the Gabbs.
Gabbs Formation - The principal host for the Longshot Ridge copper skarn deposits are impure thin-bedded sandy limestone and siltstone in the upper two units of the Gabbs Formation. The alteration associated with these rocks is either a skarn mineral suite consisting of garnet, diopside and magnetite in the limestone, or is hornfels developed in the siltstone. The copper mineralization is much more widespread, but lower grade for the reasons stated in the previous Luning skarn description. The diopside-rich Gabbs skarns are more abundantly fractured and mineralized due to the brittle nature of diopside, and for this reason these skarns are slightly higher grade than the garnet-rich skarn. Commonly the Gabbs skarns are only a few feet thick (5 to 15 feet), but there are many of them.
The lowest Gabbs unit, a carbonaceous bioclastic limestone, is the location of the “marble line,” which is the alteration boundary between marbleized and calc-silicate altered limestone. This unit rarely forms skarns. The upper two units are hosts for the plentiful skarns and hornfels formed when the hydrothermal solutions traveled up structures and outward along permeable units. These same structures and permeable beds were later intruded by granodiorite porphyry dikes and sills. The intrusive bodies proximal to the skarns are most commonly sills but dikes are locally present.
Sunrise Formation - The two lowest sedimentary units of the Sunrise Formation are impure thin-bedded sandy limestone and siltstone which are altered and mineralized. The alteration occurs as either a skarn mineral suite consisting of garnet, diopside and magnetite in the limestone, or as hornfels developed in the siltstone. The copper mineralization is much more widespread, but lower grade for the reasons stated above in the previous Luning skarn description. The diopside-rich skarns are more abundantly fractured and mineralized due to the brittle nature of diopside and for this reason these skarns are slightly higher grade than the garnet-rich skarns. The skarns in the Sunrise Formation are commonly very thick (50 feet). The largest of these is the Mayflower Mine, which was mined on a fairly large scale. This thick skarn is capped by a thick hornfels.
Current State of Exploration
Our current exploration program involves the re-analysis of the 2006 Longshot Ridge drill pulps and initiating environmental base line studies for permitting advanced exploration. Over the next twelve months, we anticipate that in order to implement our exploration program and to continue our operations we will require $1,050,000.
Due to insufficient financing, we did not carry out our exploration program during the year ended June 30, 2009. We last completed exploration work on our New York Canyon Project in 2006. In March 2006,we mobilized a reverse circulation drill rig on the property. A core rig was brought in May 8, 2006. The magnetic survey was completed in March and the IP survey began on May 10, 2006 was completed June 29. 2006. During June, 2006 a total of four RC holes for 1,660 feet (150’ per day average) and four core holes totaling 1,402 feet (74’ per day average) were completed. The total amount of reverse circulation drilling to date is
8,803 feet in 25 holes. Core drilling amounts to 2,802 feet in eight holes, for a total overall footage drilled to date of 11,605 feet in 33 holes.
In October, 2006, we identified nine new targets from the geophysical surveys completed on the New York Canyon Project. The 2006 geophysical survey program completed on the New York Canyon Project consisted of a ground magnetic survey, an induced polarization ("IP") survey, compilation and review of historic geophysical surveys and interpretation that identified additional target areas for further drilling. A 134 line kilometre ground magnetics survey was completed by Magee Geophysical Services LLC in March, 2006. Lines were oriented N15E, spaced 100 metres apart and extend from the western side of the Copper Queen zone six kilometres to the east to cover the Champion and Longshot Ridge zones. A 50.4 line kilometre dipole-dipole IP survey was completed on 17 grid lines by Zonge Geosciences Inc. Readings were taken at N=1 to 7 separations allowing an effective depth penetration of approximately 400 metres. The lines were generally spaced at 100 metres except over areas of low magnetic response where the spacing was increased to 200 or 400 metres. This IP survey provides expansive coverage over the key mineralized areas and was of sufficient density to permit 3D inversion imagery. Jim Wright of J.L. Wright Geophysics Inc. conducted the data processing, inversion and interpretation of the geophysical data.
In his report, Mr. Wright notes that the historic gravity data is important for constraining the western limits for exploration. Structures interpreted from the gravity indicate multiple stepped faults that down drop mineralized zones to the west. The magnetic survey outlines a number of possible intrusive centers, including those that are associated with the Champion, Copper Queen and Longshot Ridge mineralized zones. A substantial area measuring 1.9 km by 1.3 km correlates well with the mapped skarn and intrusive rocks at Longshot Ridge. Drilling to date on this zone has covered an approximate 450 metre by 600 metre area.
Mr. Wright notes that the mineralized zones and associated magnetic high areas are relative chargeability lows surrounded by very large chargeability high areas. Low resistivity has a direct correlation with all mineralized zones and active magnetic areas. Through his compilation and interpretation of the geophysical survey data, Mr. Wright developed target criteria based upon geophysical characteristics. Based on these selection criteria, nine target zones are identified that require follow up drill testing. The targets show consistent line to line correlation with structures or magnetic trends and are in areas that have not been previously drilled. Mr. Wright has recommended 14 drill holes totaling 5,320 metres to test these target zones. Our drilling has indicated that the mineralized systems have not as yet been thoroughly evaluated and substantial drilling is required to outline the extent of mineralization at Copper Queen, Champion and Longshot Ridge. The geophysical surveys provide further evidence that these three key mineralized zones may form part of the same system offset by basin and range structures and that there are additional targets that require further evaluation.
We contracted Leroy Kay Drilling of Yerington, Nevada to provide core drilling services at the New York Canyon Project in 2006. Mr. Kay has provided drilling services to us for the past two years and began core drilling operations at the New York Canyon Project in early May, 2006. Drill core is expected to allow thorough geological modeling of both the Longshot Ridge Claims copper oxide skarn system and the Copper Queen Claims copper-molybdenum porphyry mineralized area. Core samples will be used for metallurgical testing in order to identify a beneficial copper extraction technique in the oxide mineralized zones. Equipment and crew were mobilized to the project site at the end of March, with drilling commencing April 3, 2006. Drilling, grid work, geophysical surveys and permitting were ongoing during April and continued to June, 2006.
In fiscal 2007, the following results were received by Canyon Copper from re-analyses conducted on all pulps generated from the 2006 drill program:
Notes
* Reverse Circulation holes are designated “R” and diamond drill core holes are designated “C”.
The analyses of total copper content reported were completed by ALS Chemex using their AA62 atomic absorption procedure. A thorough quality assurance/quality control protocol of certified standard reference materials, duplicates and blanks was conducted during the analytical process.
Core hole 06-23C returned an average of 0.78% copper over a 230 foot interval starting from 80 feet. Included in this interval is a 60 foot section that averaged 1.72% copper from 210 to 270 feet. An upper interval from surface to 45 feet intersected 0.35% copper. RC drill 06-11R was drilled vertically to a depth of 265 feet. As shown in the table above, three mineralized horizons were encountered starting from surface to a depth of 215 feet within skarn altered siltstone varying from 0.26% copper over 40 feet to 1.03% copper over 10 feet. Drill holes 06-13R and 06-14R were both drilled vertically to depths of 365 feet and 350 feet respectively. These holes are located in the south-western area of Longshot Ridge within variably skarn altered siltstone. These holes, spaced approximately 120 feet apart, did not return any significant copper mineralization and may define the near surface limit of mineralization in this direction.
Hole 06-15R, located in the south central area of Longshot Ridge, returned an average of 0.39% copper over a 35 foot interval from 95 to 130 feet. Hole 06-20R was drilled in the south central portion of Longshot Ridge. This vertical hole returned an average of 0.80% copper over a 10 foot interval from 85 to 95 feet from within
skarn altered marble and a 15 foot interval from 125 feet that averaged 0.43% copper in altered siltstone. Core hole 06-21C is located in the northwest area of Longshot Ridge. This vertical drill hole returned 0.54% copper over a 115 foot interval starting at 10 feet, including 1.03% copper over 20 feet from 105 to 125 feet. Hole 06-22R is located in the central portion of Longshot Ridge and intersected three mineralized horizons as shown in the table above, including 0.90% copper over 15 feet starting at 295 feet. Hole 06-24R is located in the south central portion of the Longshot Ridge deposit and returned an average of 0.29% copper over 40 feet starting at 30 feet depth and a 70 foot interval averaging 0.41% copper starting at 95 feet.
Hole 06-25R was drilled from the same setup as 06-24R and oriented towards the northwest at a 60 degree angle to a depth of 600 feet. The hole returned 0.47% copper over a 110 foot interval starting at 70 feet, including a 30 foot interval from 120 feet that averaged 0.96% copper. A further 35 foot interval from 450 feet returned an average of 0.34% copper. Drill hole 06-26C is located in the north east portion of Longshot Ridge and was drilled vertically to a depth of 534 feet. Drilling intersected weak skarn alteration in siltstone and limestone of the Gabbs Formation overlying Luning Formation limestone. The hole intersected weak to moderate copper mineralization from the start of sampling at 20 feet to 115 feet and averaged 0.29% Cu over this 95 foot distance. Copper mineralization in nearby outcrop indicates that the mineralization extends from surface.
06-27R is located in the central west edge of the tested limit of Longshot Ridge and was drilled vertically to a depth of 335 feet. Mineralization is hosted within variable skarn alteration in siltstone and limestone. Sampling returned a 15 foot interval from 55 to 70 feet that averaged 0.37% Cu and a 40 foot interval further down the hole from 290 to 330 feet that averaged 0.23% Cu. 06-28R is located 300 feet northwest of 06-27R within a zone of strong skarn alteration of siltstone and limestone within the Gabbs Fm. The hole was drilled vertically to a depth of 345 feet and is the most westerly located hole drilled to date on Longshot Ridge. Surface workings indicate that mineralization extends at least 300 feet further west. Hole 06-28R returned a broad zone of copper mineralization extending from surface to 185 feet that averaged 0.53% Cu and included a strong zone of mineralization extending from 35 feet to 85 feet that averaged 1.08% Cu.
06-29C is located in the northern end of Longshot Ridge and was drilled vertically to a depth of 500 feet. The hole intersected the Luning Formation limestone unit that was non to weakly altered. An interval from the start of sampling at 10 feet to 45 feet averaged 0.28% Cu. 06-30R is located 260 feet southwest of 06-29C and was drilled vertically to a depth of 225 feet. Copper mineralization is hosted within calc-silicate and skarn altered limestone adjacent to quartz monzonite sills. An interval from surface to 50 feet averaged 0.23% Cu and a second interval from 120 to 225 feet averaged 0.28% Cu. The mineralization remains open to the north, west and at depth.
06-31R is located in the west central area of Longshot Ridge. The hole was angled to the northwest at a dip of 600 to a depth of 545 feet. The hole intersected moderate skarn alteration within siltstone and limestone of the Gabbs Fm. Mineralization extends from surface to 380 feet with an upper 130 foot zone averaging 0.32% Cu and a lower 190 foot zone starting at 190 feet that averages 0.87% Cu. Included within this interval is a 90 foot zone extending from 285 feet that averages 1.06% Cu. 06-32C is located at the northern portion of Longshot Ridge. The hole was drilled northwest across stratigraphy at an angle of 700 to a depth of 284 feet. An 83 foot interval starting at 65 feet returned an average of 0.66% Cu.
06-33C is located in north central Longshot Ridge, approximately 350 feet south of 06-32C. The hole was drilled towards the northwest at an angle of 70° to a depth of 345 feet. A 190 foot zone from the start of sampling at 10 feet to 200 feet averaged 0.52% Cu, with a 20 foot zone from 175 to 195 feet averaging 1.50% Cu.
Drilling to date at the Longshot Ridge copper deposit has confirmed and expanded on the known extent of the copper oxide mineralization, which is exposed at surface and has been tested to depths up to 400 feet. With the exception of holes 06-13R and 06-14R, all drill holes completed in 2006 have indicated the consistent and wide spread nature of the copper mineralization at Longshot Ridge. The recent data is being incorporated into the overall New York Canyon project database in order to develop a resource estimate of the copper content at Longshot Ridge.
ITEM 3.