ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
We currently do not own any real property.
We rent approximately 1,606 square feet of office space located at Suite 408 - 1199 West Pender Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada from ESO Uranium Corp. at a cost of approximately $1,500 per month. This rental is on a month-to-month basis with no formal agreements.
NEW YORK CANYON PROJECT
We hold 100% title to our New York Canyon Claims, subject to certain royalties, and pursuant to various lease agreements, we were granted a seven year lease to explore and develop the Copper Queen #2 patented mineral claim, a nine year lease to explore and develop the Mildred and Copper Queen #1 patented mineral claims and a 15 year lease to explore and develop the Jaycor Claims.
Our New York Canyon Claims consist of two major claim blocks covering a total of 1,332 mineral claims, covering approximately 27,440 acres located in Mineral County, Nevada. We refer to the first block of claims as the "Copper Queen Claims,” and the second contiguous block of claims as the "Longshot Ridge Claims.” Further, we hold 21 patented mineral claims covering an area of approximately 420 acres, located within the vicinity of the New York Canyon Claims.
Figure 1 - New York Canyon Property
Location and Access, Climate, Local Resources, and Physiography
The New York Canyon Project is situated in southern Mineral County, Nevada. It is located 30 miles east of the county seat at Hawthorne and five miles east of the community of Luning, Nevada. Paved state highway US95 provides road access to Reno, Nevada 160 miles to the north and Las Vegas, NV 290 miles to the southeast.
Access to the property from Luning is by county maintained gravel surfaced roads and a network of unimproved gravel roads that extend throughout the property. The claims cover a portion of the western slope of the Gabbs Valley Range and extend westward into Soda Spring Valley. Elevations range from 4,600 feet in the valley bottom to over 7,000 feet at the crest of the Gabbs Valley Range. Relief is gentle to steep over the property and is moderate in the vicinity of the known mineralized zones.
The New York Canyon region is arid to semi-arid desert with temperatures to 95F in the summer and average temperatures of 25F in winter. Precipitation varies between two and 6 inches per year. Physical work could be conducted on the New York Canyon property year round.
Vegetation of the New York Canyon area is typical of central Nevada and consists of sagebrush and other desert plants on the lower slopes and valleys. Shadscale, white sage and greasewood occur with sagebrush on the drier slopes and hills. Sparse cover of pinion pine and juniper trees occurs at higher elevations on the property.
Depending on the ultimate extent of mineralization identified on the New York Canyon Project, the current claim base may be insufficient to support mining operations, tailings and waste storage and processing plants. Additional surface lands may be required for such operations. The existing infrastructure within the project area and the proximity to major centers such as Hawthorne and Reno are key factors in supporting mining operations.
Figure 2 - New York Canyon Property
History
The Santa Fe Silver Mine established this mining district in 1879 with silver production from silver deposits in the district. The discovery of significant copper deposits in 1893 superseded the silver mining operations in the area. The New York Canyon Project property has a long history of exploration, development and production dating back to 1875 when the copper oxide deposits were first discovered. Between 1906 and 1929, an estimated 8.9 million pounds of copper were recovered from 110,000 tons of ore at an average grade of 5.5% . Copper production exceeded 4,454 tons between 1906 and 1935. There was also significant silver production during this period when copper production reached its zenith.
Modern exploration began in 1964 when Banner Mining Company (“Banner”) drilled the Copper Queen and Champion mineral occurrences. During the mid-1960’s through to the late-1970’s, several mining companies explored the New York Canyon Project, primarily for the porphyry copper sulphide potential completing 124 holes totaling 106,000 feet. In the 1970's, Amax Inc., and later Conoco Inc. (“Conoco”), conducted significant exploration programs, completing 24 holes totaling 20,226 feet. A total of 15 holes were drilled to test the Long Shot Ridge occurrence. This historic drilling by Conoco, from 1977 to 1981, indicated 13.2 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.55% copper for the Longshot Ridge area and 142 million tons grading 0.35% and 0.015% molybdenum for the Copper Queen deposit. In 1979, Conoco conducted a preliminary metallurgical testing program for copper recovery using drill core. The Copper Queen deposit yielded average recoveries of 70% copper over the six day leach period. Acid consumptions varied with rock type: porphyry copper mineralized rock consumed 160 pounds sulphuric acid per ton while carbonate rich mineralized rock consumed 509 pounds of sulphuric acid (H2SO4) per ton. Copper oxide mineralized material provided recoveries ranging from 75.0% to 84.45% with acid consumption of 232 to 349 pounds H2SO4 per ton of ore.
Further exploration of the property was conducted between 1992 and 1997. Over this time, various joint venture partners primarily tested the Longshot Ridge and Copper Queen deposit areas with an additional 46 drill holes totaling 13,018 feet. In 1993, Peter Cowdery, PhD., P.Eng. of CORE Engineering and Associates conducted an estimate of the mineralized material at the Longshot Ridge copper oxide deposit for Kookaburra Resources Ltd. The CORE technical report indicated 17.7 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.55% copper using a 0.23% copper cutoff.
Prior to the acquisition of our interest in the New York Canyon Project, 129 drill holes totaling 93,858 feet of drilling had been completed on the property. Mountain States R & D International, Inc.’s simulated vat leach test on minus three-quarter inch copper mineralized material from Longshot Ridge indicated a 39.41% copper recovery with total acid consumption of 174.7 pounds per ton of mineralized material. The 1993 report states that at an average copper content of 0.57 percent, a ton of Long Shot Ridge mineralized material contains 11.4 pounds of copper.
General Geology
The New York Canyon Project lies within the central portion of the Walker Lane Structural Belt, a zone of northwest striking parallel and sub-parallel, right lateral strike slip faults in the western part of the Great Basin region. The Walker Lane structural belt developed in an intra-arc setting during the Cenozoic and extends for more than 400 miles through western Nevada and into northern California. Tertiary volcanism and related hydrothermal mineralization have been recognized throughout the length of this structural break. Significant mining districts are associated with the Walker Lane Belt and include Comstock, Goldfield, Rawhide, Tonopah-Hall, and Yerington.
The New York Canyon area consists mostly of a conformable sequence of marine sedimentary rocks of Triassic and Jurassic ages. These rocks are intruded by granitic rocks of Cretaceous age and locally covered by non-mineralized volcanic flows of Tertiary age and by Quaternary alluvium and colluvium in the valley bottoms. Structural displacement of mineralized host rocks at New York Canyon is generally associated with Walker Lane style structures that disrupt bedding and provide conduits for mineralized source fluids.
The oldest rocks are middle to late Triassic age Luning Formation, predominately dolomite, dolomitic limestone and limestone with subordinate shale, argillite and conglomerate. Regionally, the Luning Formation is thought to be more than 10,000 feet thick with thin to medium bedded carbonate rocks intercalated with siltstone in the lower 1,000-foot portion of the sequence, and massive to thick bedded carbonate rocks in the upper 4,000-foot portion of the sequence.
The late Triassic age Gabbs Formation conformably overlies the Luning Formation. The Gabbs Formation is comprised of three members and consists of a sequence of thin bedded fossiliferous limestone, argillaceous limestone and calcareous tuffaceous siltstone totaling 400 feet thick at the type locality in New York Canyon.
The Sunrise Formation of Jurassic age conformably overlies the Gabbs Formation. The Sunrise is comprised of five members and consists of a sequence of quartz latite porphyry flows near the base, thin bedded limestones, siltstones, silty limestone, tuffaceous siltstone, shale and claystone totaling about 600 to 800 feet thick at New York Canyon and as much as 1,200 feet thick in the Pilot Mountains to the southeast. The Sunrise Formation is distinguished from the Gabbs Formation primarily by fossil type.
Conformably overlying the Sunrise Formation is the Jurassic age Dunlap Formation, a 3,000 foot thick sequence of basal conglomerate, limestone, clastic sediment, and andesite and rhyolite flows. Intruding these formations are Jurassic to Cretaceous age multiphase domes, plugs, dikes and sills consisting primarily of diorite and granodiorite with areas of quartz monzonite, granite and other associated felsic rock types.
Tertiary age (mostly Oligocene and Miocene age) mafic to felsic volcanics, volcanoclastics, flows, tuffs, tuffaceous sediments, and continental sediments form capping units throughout the region in varying thickness to 8,000 feet. Quaternary rocks consist of various alluvial and lacustrine deposits forming basin fill deposits, with fanglomerates extending out as debris from the ranges. These units can be 200 feet or more thick.
Property Geology at New York Canyon
The upper New York Canyon area consists primarily of Luning Formation limestone with the small area of Longshot Ridge overlain by rocks of the Gabbs and Sunrise Formations. These sedimentary units are in turn intruded by felsic sills and dikes. In the Longshot Ridge area the Luning Formation (Lfm) consists of thick-bedded limestone and dolomite, typically gray to tan colored units, which are exposed in the hillsides below the main ridge.
The Gabbs Formation at Longshot Ridge originally consisted of very thin bedded to laminated limestone and silty limestone intercalated with siltstone and shale, all of which have been moderately to highly calc-silicate altered. Remnant bedding textures are locally evident. The three members of the formation consist of: G1, the lowest unit, a black, bioclastic limestone intercalated with siltstone, approximately 250 feet thick; G2, the middle unit, predominantly argillaceous limestone intercalated with calcareous and tuffaceous siltstone, approximately 200 feet thick consisting; and G3, the upper unit, predominantly argillaceous limestone intercalated with siltstone, 0 to 200 feet thick. The Luning-Gabbs contact at the base of the Gabbs Formation is clearly marked by a carbonaceous (black bioclastic) limestone.
The two lowest members of the Sunrise Formation (Sfm) at Longshot Ridge are also moderately skarn and calc-silicate altered. The five Sunrise members are: S1, the lowest unit, argillaceous limestone intercalated with siltstone and some quartz latite porphyry flows near the base, approximately 100 feet thick; S2, fossiliferous bedded limestone intercalated with siltstone and silty limestone, 50 feet thick; S3, shale and siltstone, 250 feet thick; S4, consists of 200 feet of silty limestone and limestone, 200 feet thick; and S5, the uppermost unit, claystone and limestone, 200 feet thick.
The Dunlap formation, mentioned in the regional description, is not present in the Longshot Ridge area. Further, only one of the various regional Tertiary age volcanic sequences is present along the northern flank of Longshot Ridge. The felsic intrusive rocks (Fi) of Longshot Ridge are primarily sills with some local dikes. These sills and dikes are typically only 5 to 20 feet thick but quite abundant. Rock types include granodiorite porphyry, porphyritic quartz monzonite, quartz monzonite porphyry and quartz-feldspar porphyry. The average bedding at Longshot ridge strikes N75°E and dips 35° south. The rocks have been severely faulted and folded with drag and overturned features common. The major faults are curvilinear with general trends toward the northeast and northwest. Although many of these faults are fairly high angle, they commonly change dip direction due to the change of strike of the structure. There are generally two sets of faults, one trending NE and the other trending NW, with some local faults that strike N and dip steeply E. For the most part, these appear to be normal faults with displacements ranging from 50 to 200 feet.
Deposit Types at New York Canyon Project
Mineralization within the New York Canyon Project consists principally of contact metasomatic copper skarn deposits, porphyry-type copper-molybdenum mineralization, and a combination or transition of these two types of mineralization. The property’s copper skarns may be almost entirely oxidized, as at Longshot Ridge, or consist of both oxide and sulphide skarns as at the Champion prospect, located midway between the Longshot Ridge and Copper Queen prospects. At Copper Queen, the mineralization consists of copper sulphide skarn and porphyry copper-molybdenum sulphide.
Contact metasomatic skarn (also known as tactite) typically occurs in carbonate sedimentary rocks adjacent to small to moderate sized intrusive rock bodies of intermediate composition, such as monzonite and granodiorite. Heat and fluids from the intrusion recrystallize and alter the carbonate rocks, converting limestone and limy sediments to higher temperature calc-silicate minerals such as garnet, epidote, diopside, tremolite and calcite. A variety of metalliferous deposits can be formed, including those that are copper-rich, iron-rich or tungsten-rich.
Copper skarns often occur transitional to porphyry-type copper deposits and are one of the world’s most abundant types of skarn deposits. Sizes range from small up to 100 million tons or more with grades averaging 1 to 2% Cu. Associated metallic minerals include chalcopyrite, bornite, magnetite, specularite, pyrite, pyrrhotite, sphalerite, and molybdenite. Examples of copper skarn deposits in the southwest US include Carr Fork (Utah), Santa Rita-Pinos Altos (New Mexico), Mason Valley-Copper Canyon (Nevada) and Mission-Pima (Arizona).
Porphyry-type copper-molybdenum deposits are closely associated with and related to moderate sized intrusive rock bodies of intermediate to felsic composition. Mineralization occurs as disseminated sulphides and as crosscutting stockwork quartz-sulphide veins within the intrusive and extending outward into the surrounding rocks. The intrusive bodies are commonly 0.5 to 2 kilometers or more across and their emplacement produces large volumes of altered and intensely fractured ground.
Porphyry-type deposits are classic large tonnage systems with large metal contents amenable to low cost bulk mining methods, and these deposits account for a major portion of the world’s copper and molybdenum production. Sizes range from 20 million to several billion tons with grades ranging from about 0.5% to 1.5% Cu. In the southwest US, one of the world’s best-endowed copper provinces, a typical porphyry copper deposit contains 447 million tons of 0.67% Cu. Examples from this region include Silver Bell, Yerington, Piedras Verdes and Sanchez.
Mineralization at New York Canyon Project
Mineralization at the New York Canyon Project consists of three principal copper prospects along a west-northwest structural trend: Copper Queen on the west, Champion in the center and Longshot Ridge on the east. The Copper Queen prospect has no exposed mineralization at the surface but contains copper sulfide skarn at depth and an incompletely confirmed copper-molybdenum sulphide porphyry system at greater depth. The Champion and Longshot Ridge prospects, however, have numerous widespread exposures of copper skarn mineralization, both in surface outcrop and abundant old mine workings. The majority of recent exploration efforts on the New York Canyon Project have focused on the extensive oxide copper skarn mineralization at Longshot Ridge. This mineralization is the subject of the current report.
The copper mineralization and associated alteration at Longshot Ridge are products of an extensive copper-rich skarn system formed in carbonaceous sediments of the Luning, Gabbs and Sunrise Formations. Small amounts of copper occur also in stockwork veinlets in felsic porphyry intrusive sills and dikes. The copper mineralization consists almost entirely of secondary copper minerals, principally malachite, azurite, chrysocolla and copper wad, in order of abundance. Additionally, some copper-rich limonite (goethite) has been reported. The oxide copper minerals apparently are the products of supergene weathering and oxidation of primary copper sulphide minerals present in the original skarn. Because limestones tend to buffer any solution carrying copper in the supergene environment, copper can be enriched as much as 300 to 400 percent by this supergene weathering process. Oxide copper deposits formed in a similar manner in many copper districts throughout the southwest US, have contributed substantially to the copper produced from the associated primary copper deposits in these districts.
About 90 percent of the Longshot Ridge mineralization is within the two upper units of the Gabbs Formation. Drilling reveals that the strongest, thickest and most continuous mineralization occurs in a NE-trending zone, 200 feet wide by 1300 feet long, which is crossed by two NW-trending structurally-controlled high grade zones, each about 100 feet wide and from 400 to 700 feet long.
Luning Formation - Dolomite and limestone units of the Luning Formation are altered with the skarn minerals serpentine, talc, garnet, magnetite and locally diopside. Serpentine and talc form sinuous veins along structures in the dolomite, a diagnostic feature of dolomite skarns. Due to the massive nature of the Luning, the skarn suite is confined mostly to small halos along high-angle structures; for this reason, the copper mineralization is limited in area but of moderately high grade. Additionally, the Luning contains small local zones of hematite and dolomite with jasperoid veins a few feet thick; these zones have fine-grained silica, hematite, goethite, limonite and copper oxides. Historically, all the higher-grade copper shipped from the New York Canyon area during World War I was from copper skarns in the Luning, not from the Gabbs.
Gabbs Formation - Copper mineralization in the Gabbs is much more widespread but lower grade than in the Luning. The vast majority of the copper mineralization at Longshot Ridge is in the two upper units of the Gabbs Formation, principally impure thin-bedded sandy limestone and siltstone. The limestone is extensively altered to a skarn mineral suite of garnet, diopside and magnetite; the siltstone is altered to hornfels. Due to the brittle nature of diopside, the diopside-rich skarns are more abundantly fractured and slightly rich in copper than the garnet-rich skarns. Typical Gabbs skarns are only 5 to 15 feet thick, but there are many of them.
The lowest Gabbs unit, a carbonaceous bioclastic limestone contains the boundary between marbleized limestone and calc-silica altered limestone (the so-called “marble line”) but it rarely contains skarn mineralization. It is cut by high-angle structures that were used as feeders for the plentiful skarns and hornfels which formed in the more reactive or permeable rocks of the two overlying Gabbs units. Granodiorite porphyry intrusions were later emplaced as dikes along the same structures and as sills in the permeable beds. The skarns are more commonly proximal to the sills.
Sunrise Formation - The two lowest sedimentary units of the Sunrise Formation, impure thin-bedded sandy limestone and siltstone, are altered to a skarn suite of garnet, diopside and magnetite in the limestone and to hornfels in the siltstone. As in the Gabbs, copper mineralization is widespread but relatively low grade. However the Sunrise skarns are relatively thick, on the order of 50 feet. The largest skarn bed is the Mayflower Mine, which was mined on a fairly large scale. It is capped by hornfels-altered sedimentary rocks
Current State of Exploration
We are continuing to pursue our exploration program on the New York Canyon Project. Due to insufficient financing, we did not carry out our exploration program during the year ended June 30, 2008. The current work program for New York Canyon Project comprises of drilling an initial 56 holes at Longshot Ridge to outline the mineralized zone followed by 14 drill holes at Copper Queen to test the mineralization at depth there. Geophysical surveys are intended to cover the main areas of interest to develop further drill targets. Drilling to date at the Longshot Ridge copper deposit has confirmed and expanded on the known extent of the copper oxide mineralization, which is exposed at surface and has been tested to depths up to 400 feet. With the exception of holes 06-13R and 06-14R, all drill holes completed in 2006 have indicated the consistent and wide spread nature of the copper mineralization at Longshot Ridge. The recent data is being incorporated into the overall New York Canyon Project database in order to develop a resource estimate of the copper content at Longshot Ridge.
Previous Exploration Work Completed on the New York Canyon Project
On October 18, 2006, we announced that nine new targets have been identified from the geophysical surveys completed on the New York Canyon Project. The 2006 geophysical survey program completed on the New York Canyon Project consisted of a ground magnetic survey, an induced polarization ("IP") survey, compilation and review of historic geophysical surveys and interpretation that identified additional target areas for further drilling. A 134 line kilometre ground magnetics survey was completed by Magee Geophysical Services LLC in March, 2006. Lines were oriented N15E, spaced 100 metres apart and extend from the western side of the Copper Queen zone six kilometres to the east to cover the Champion and Longshot Ridge zones. A 50.4 line kilometre dipole-dipole IP survey was completed on 17 grid lines by Zonge Geosciences Inc. Readings were taken at N=1 to 7 separations allowing an effective depth penetration of approximately 400 metres. The lines were generally spaced at 100 metres except over areas of low magnetic response where the spacing was increased to 200 or 400 metres. This IP survey provides expansive coverage over the key mineralized areas and was of sufficient density to permit 3D inversion imagery. Jim Wright of J.L. Wright Geophysics Inc. conducted the data processing, inversion and interpretation of the geophysical data.
In his report, Mr. Wright notes that the historic gravity data is important for constraining the western limits for exploration. Structures interpreted from the gravity indicate multiple stepped faults that down drop mineralized zones to the west. The magnetic survey outlines a number of possible intrusive centers, including those that are associated with the Champion, Copper Queen and Longshot Ridge mineralized zones. A substantial area measuring 1.9 km by 1.3 km correlates well with the mapped skarn and intrusive rocks at Longshot Ridge. Drilling to date on this zone has covered an approximate 450 metre by 600 metre area.
Mr. Wright notes that the mineralized zones and associated magnetic high areas are relative chargeability lows surrounded by very large chargeability high areas. Low resistivity has a direct correlation with all mineralized zones and active magnetic areas. Through his compilation and interpretation of the geophysical survey data, Mr. Wright developed target criteria based upon geophysical characteristics. Based on these selection criteria, nine target zones are identified that require follow up drill testing. The targets show consistent line to line correlation with structures or magnetic trends and are in areas that have not been previously drilled. Mr. Wright has recommended 14 drill holes totaling 5,320 metres to test these target zones. Our drilling has indicated that the mineralized systems have not as yet been thoroughly evaluated and substantial drilling is required to outline the extent of mineralization at Copper Queen, Champion and Longshot Ridge. The geophysical surveys provide further evidence that these three key mineralized zones may form part of the same system offset by basin and range structures and that there are additional targets that require further evaluation.
We contracted Leroy Kay Drilling of Yerington, Nevada to provide core drilling services at the New York Canyon Project in 2006. Mr. Kay has provided drilling services to us for the past two years and began core drilling operations at the New York Canyon Project in early May, 2006. Drill core is expected to allow thorough
geological modeling of both the Longshot Ridge Claims copper oxide skarn system and the Copper Queen Claims copper-molybdenum porphyry mineralized area. Core samples will be used for metallurgical testing in order to identify a beneficial copper extraction technique in the oxide mineralized zones. Equipment and crew were mobilized to the project site at the end of March, with drilling commencing April 3, 2006. Drilling, grid work, geophysical surveys and permitting were ongoing during April and continued to June, 2006.
In fiscal 2007, the following results were received by Canyon Copper from re-analyses conducted on all pulps generated from the 2006 drill program:
Notes
* Reverse Circulation holes are designated “R” and diamond drill core holes are designated “C”.
The analyses of total copper content reported were completed by ALS Chemex using their AA62 atomic absorption procedure. A thorough quality assurance/quality control protocol of certified standard reference materials, duplicates and blanks was conducted during the analytical process.
Core hole 06-23C returned an average of 0.78% copper over a 230 foot interval starting from 80 feet. Included in this interval is a 60 foot section that averaged 1.72% copper from 210 to 270 feet. An upper interval from surface to 45 feet intersected 0.35% copper. RC drill 06-11R was drilled vertically to a depth of 265 feet. As shown in the table above, three mineralized horizons were encountered starting from surface to a depth of 215 feet within skarn altered siltstone varying from 0.26% copper over 40 feet to 1.03% copper over 10 feet. Drill holes 06-13R and 06-14R were both drilled vertically to depths of 365 feet and 350 feet respectively. These holes are located in the south-western area of Longshot Ridge within variably skarn altered siltstone. These holes, spaced approximately 120 feet apart, did not return any significant copper mineralization and may define the near surface limit of mineralization in this direction.
Hole 06-15R, located in the south central area of Longshot Ridge, returned an average of 0.39% copper over a 35 foot interval from 95 to 130 feet. Hole 06-20R was drilled in the south central portion of Longshot Ridge. This vertical hole returned an average of 0.80% copper over a 10 foot interval from 85 to 95 feet from within skarn altered marble and a 15 foot interval from 125 feet that averaged 0.43% copper in altered siltstone. Core hole 06-21C is located in the northwest area of Longshot Ridge. This vertical drill hole returned 0.54% copper over a 115 foot interval starting at 10 feet, including 1.03% copper over 20 feet from 105 to 125 feet. Hole 06-22R is located in the central portion of Longshot Ridge and intersected three mineralized horizons as shown in the table above, including 0.90% copper over 15 feet starting at 295 feet. Hole 06-24R is located in the south central portion of the Longshot Ridge deposit and returned an average of 0.29% copper over 40 feet starting at 30 feet depth and a 70 foot interval averaging 0.41% copper starting at 95 feet.
Hole 06-25R was drilled from the same setup as 06-24R and oriented towards the northwest at a 60 degree angle to a depth of 600 feet. The hole returned 0.47% copper over a 110 foot interval starting at 70 feet, including a 30 foot interval from 120 feet that averaged 0.96% copper. A further 35 foot interval from 450 feet returned an average of 0.34% copper. Drill hole 06-26C is located in the north east portion of Longshot Ridge and was drilled vertically to a depth of 534 feet. Drilling intersected weak skarn alteration in siltstone and limestone of the Gabbs Formation overlying Luning Formation limestone. The hole intersected weak to moderate copper mineralization from the start of sampling at 20 feet to 115 feet and averaged 0.29% Cu over this 95 foot distance. Copper mineralization in nearby outcrop indicates that the mineralization extends from surface.
06-27R is located in the central west edge of the tested limit of Longshot Ridge and was drilled vertically to a depth of 335 feet. Mineralization is hosted within variable skarn alteration in siltstone and limestone. Sampling returned a 15 foot interval from 55 to 70 feet that averaged 0.37% Cu and a 40 foot interval further down the hole from 290 to 330 feet that averaged 0.23% Cu. 06-28R is located 300 feet northwest of 06-27R within a zone of strong skarn alteration of siltstone and limestone within the Gabbs Fm. The hole was drilled vertically to a depth of 345 feet and is the most westerly located hole drilled to date on Longshot Ridge. Surface workings indicate that mineralization extends at least 300 feet further west. Hole 06-28R returned a broad zone of copper mineralization extending from surface to 185 feet that averaged 0.53% Cu and included a strong zone of mineralization extending from 35 feet to 85 feet that averaged 1.08% Cu.
06-29C is located in the northern end of Longshot Ridge and was drilled vertically to a depth of 500 feet. The hole intersected the Luning Formation limestone unit that was non to weakly altered. An interval from the start of sampling at 10 feet to 45 feet averaged 0.28% Cu. 06-30R is located 260 feet southwest of 06-29C and was drilled vertically to a depth of 225 feet. Copper mineralization is hosted within calc-silicate and skarn altered limestone adjacent to quartz monzonite sills. An interval from surface to 50 feet averaged 0.23% Cu and a second interval from 120 to 225 feet averaged 0.28% Cu. The mineralization remains open to the north, west and at depth.
06-31R is located in the west central area of Longshot Ridge. The hole was angled to the northwest at a dip of 600 to a depth of 545 feet. The hole intersected moderate skarn alteration within siltstone and limestone of the Gabbs Fm. Mineralization extends from surface to 380 feet with an upper 130 foot zone averaging 0.32% Cu and a lower 190 foot zone starting at 190 feet that averages 0.87% Cu. Included within this interval is a 90 foot zone extending from 285 feet that averages 1.06% Cu. 06-32C is located at the northern portion of
Longshot Ridge. The hole was drilled northwest across stratigraphy at an angle of 700 to a depth of 284 feet. An 83 foot interval starting at 65 feet returned an average of 0.66% Cu.
06-33C is located in north central Longshot Ridge, approximately 350 feet south of 06-32C. The hole was drilled towards the northwest at an angle of 70° to a depth of 345 feet. A 190 foot zone from the start of sampling at 10 feet to 200 feet averaged 0.52% Cu, with a 20 foot zone from 175 to 195 feet averaging 1.50% Cu.
Drilling to date at the Longshot Ridge copper deposit has confirmed and expanded on the known extent of the copper oxide mineralization, which is exposed at surface and has been tested to depths up to 400 feet. With the exception of holes 06-13R and 06-14R, all drill holes completed in 2006 have indicated the consistent and wide spread nature of the copper mineralization at Longshot Ridge. The recent data is being incorporated into the overall New York Canyon project database in order to develop a resource estimate of the copper content at Longshot Ridge.
ITEM 3.