ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
We rent approximately 1,606 square feet of office space located at Suite 408, 1199 West Pender Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada from ESO Uranium Corp. at a cost of approximately CDN $3,500 per month. This rental is on a month-to-month basis with no formal agreements.
We do not own any real property. We currently hold 100% title in a major claim block totalling 661 unpatented mineral claims, covering approximately 13,220 acres located in Mineral County, Nevada (the “New York Canyon Claims”). We also hold 21 patented mineral claims covering an area of approximately 420 acres, located within the vicinity of the New York Canyon Claims area. We collectively refer to the New York Canyon Claims and the patented mineral claims as the “New York Canyon Project.” We also hold an option to acquire a 100% interest in a copper porphyry project comprised of 307 unpatented mineral claims having an area of approximately 6,300 acres located on the northern end of the Walker Lane Belt in Plumas County, California (the “Moonlight Property”).
NEW YORK CANYON PROJECT
Description of Property
New York Canyon Claims
The 661 unpatented lode mining claims were physically staked on the ground. Unpatented claims require annual maintenance fees of $140 per claim payable to the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”) by August 31 of each year. Additionally, the county requires recording fees of approximately $15 per claim each year. The claims are current and in good standing through August 31, 2013.
The acquisition of title to the claims was completed pursuant to the terms of the Property Option Agreement dated March 18, 2004 (the “Property Option Agreement”) among the Company and Nevada Sunrise LLC (“Nevada Sunrise”), Robert Weicker, Sharon Weicker, Kurt Schendel, and Tami Schendel (collectively, the “Optionors”).
Under the terms of the Property Option Agreement, we exercised our option to acquire the New York Canyon Claims by: (i) paying $460,000 to the Optionors; (ii) issuing 526,667 shares of our common stock to the Optionors; and (iii) incurring exploration expenditures of a minimum of $2,250,000 on the New York Canyon Claims. The Optionors also retained a 2% net smelter returns royalty (the “Royalty”) over any future production. We have the option to reduce the Royalty to 1% by making a lump sum payment of $1,000,000 to the Optionors.
In accordance with the terms of the Property Option Agreement and upon our acquisition of the New York Canyon Claims, Nevada Sunrise assigned to us its interest under two lease agreements. On October 9, 2004, Nevada Sunrise entered into a lease agreement with Tammy Gentry and Pat Hannigan pursuant to which it obtained a nine year lease over the Copper Queen #2 patented mineral claim. As a result of the assignment of this lease, we acquired the Copper Queen #2 patented mineral claim by paying the lessors $50,000.
In addition, on January 1, 2005, Nevada Sunrise entered into a lease agreement with Clifford DeGraw and Richard Markiewicz pursuant to which it obtained a seven year lease over the Mildred and Copper Queen #1 patented mineral claim. As a result of the assignment of these leases, we acquired the Mildred and Copper Queen #1 patented claims by paying an aggregate $130,000.
Lease Agreement with Jaycor Mining Inc.
On July 21, 2004, we entered into a lease agreement (the “Jaycor Lease Agreement”) with Jaycor Mining, Inc. (“Jaycor”). Under the terms of the Lease Agreement, we were granted rights to explore and, if proved feasible, develop 18 patented mineral claims held by Jaycor (the “Jaycor Claims”). These rights were granted as a lease for an initial term of 15 years, and are renewable for a further 15 years.
As consideration for the lease of the Jaycor Claims, we were required to pay Jaycor the following amounts prior to the commencement of any future production activities: (i) $25,000 on execution of the Jaycor Lease Agreement; (ii) $1,000 monthly commencing on the first anniversary; (iii) $2,000 monthly commencing on the second anniversary; and (iv) $3,000 monthly commencing on the third anniversary and continuing for as long as the Jaycor Lease Agreement is in effect (collectively, the “Jaycor Minimum Payments”)
In addition to the Minimum Payments, we have issued an aggregate of 6,583 shares to Jaycor in accordance with the Jaycor Lease Agreement. As of the date of this Annual Report, we have made all required Minimum Payments and is in good standing under the Jaycor Lease Agreement.
The Jaycor Claims under the Lease Agreement are subject to an overriding royalty deed granted to Kookaburra Resources Ltd. (“Kookaburra”) by Jaycor. Upon commencement of production, we are required to pay Kookaburra a net smelter returns royalty of 1.75%, up to a maximum of $2,000,000. In addition, we have also agreed to pay Jaycor a net smelter return royalty of 0.5% until such time as Kookaburra has been paid $2,000,000, at which time the royalty payable to Jaycor will then increase to 1.5% . The 1.5% rate payable is subject to a maximum of $2,000,000, at which time the ongoing royalty payment to Jaycor will be reduced to 0.5% for as long as the Lease Agreement is in effect.
The Jaycor Claims are located in Sections 32, 33 and 34 T8N; R35E MDBM in Mineral County, Nevada and are recorded as follows:
The holders of patented minerals claims generally retain all mineral and property rights, and the permitting procedures for both exploration and development can be streamlined and fast tracked.
BLM Annual Maintenance Fees
In order to maintain our New York Canyon Project claims each year we must pay a maintenance fee of $140 per claim to the Nevada State Office of the Bureau of Land Management and on November 1 of each year we must file an affidavit and Notice of Intent to Hold the claims in Mineral County. We have paid the required maintenance fees and filed the affidavits required in order to extend the claims to August 31, 2013.
Figure 1 - New York Canyon Property
Location and Access, Climate, Local Resources, and Physiography
The New York Canyon Project is approximately five miles east of Luning and 30 miles east of Hawthorne, the seat of Mineral County, in the sparsely populated west central part of Nevada. The largest full-service city with daily commercial air flights to most major American cities is Reno, located 169 miles north-northwest of the New York Canyon Project via paved highway US95. Access to the New York Canyon Project from Hawthorne is via paved highway US95 for 25 miles to Luning and then by 5 miles of all-weather gravel road.
The New York Canyon Project is at the south end of the Gabbs Valley Range with part of the New York Canyon Project extending westward into Soda Spring Valley. The terrain is part of the “Basin and Range” physiographic province consisting of steep rugged hills at elevations from 5,500 to 7,000 feet separated by broad basins ranging from 4,600 to 5,500 feet elevation.
The climate is semi-arid with two seasons: a wet cold winter and a dry hot summer. The main period of snow occurs between November and March. Annual rainfall for the last several years has ranged from 2 to 6 inches per year with temperatures ranging from 25°F to 95°F. The prevailing vegetation consists of grasses, low shrubs (most commonly sagebrush) and occasional patches of pinion pine and juniper trees at higher elevations. The local economy is based largely on ranching and mining with many people employed by the Hawthorne Naval Ammunition Depot.
During the past twenty years, a number of mines have operated in this part of Nevada, mostly gold and silver mines with some by-product base metals. As a result, the community contains a small pool of experienced labor sufficient for the needs of many short-term mining operations.
History
The New York Canyon Project has a long history of exploration, development and production beginning with discovery of the copper oxide deposits in 1875. The district’s first recorded production occurred from 1906 to 1929 when the Wall Street Copper Company consolidated various holdings in the district and commenced copper production at the Anderson, Champion, Mayflower, New York, Turk, Vacation and Wall Street Mines. An estimated 8.9 million pounds of copper was recovered from approximately 110,000 tons of ore at an average grade of 5.5% copper during this period.
1965 to 1979 - A total of 107 exploration drill holes (98,433 feet) were drilled during 1965 to 1979 in the New York Canyon Project area, initially by Amax but primarily by Conoco Oil Company, who subsequently operated the Project from 1977 to 1981. Exploration was focused mainly on porphyry copper-molybdenum sulfide targets at the Copper Queen and Champion prospects. This historic drilling by Conoco, from 1977 to 1981, indicated 13.2 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.55% copper for the Longshot Ridge area and 142 million tons grading 0.35% and 0.015% molybdenum for the Copper Queen deposit.
In 1979, Conoco contracted Hazen Research, Inc. to conduct a preliminary testing program for copper recovery using sulfuric acid bottle roll leaching tests and flotation tests on drill core sample composites. Hazen prepared composites based on five rock types crushed to minus 0.5 inch size. Drill core from the Copper Queen deposit yielded recoveries ranging from 65% to 75% copper over the six-day leach period with acid consumptions of 160 pounds per ton for porphyry copper mineralized rock to 509 pounds of sulfuric acid (H2SO4) per ton of carbonate-rich host rock. Copper oxide material provided recoveries ranging from 75.0% to 84.45% from the six-day bottle roll test with corresponding acid consumption of 232 to 349 pounds H2SO4 per ton of ore.
1992 to 1997 - Kookaburra Resources Ltd. (“Kookaburra”) and its various joint venture partners - including Coca Mines and Phelps Dodge - conducted the next stage of exploration from 1992 to 1997, drilling 54 holes totaling 13,018 feet to test the Longshot Ridge and Copper Queen skarns. In 1993, Peter Cowdery, PhD., P.Eng. of CORE Engineering and Associates conducted an estimate of the mineralized material at the Longshot Ridge copper oxide deposit for Kookaburra Resources Ltd. The CORE technical report indicated 17.7 million tons of mineralized material with an average grade of 0.55% copper using a 0.23% copper cutoff.
Prior to our acquisition of the New York Canyon Project, Kookaburra commissioned Mountain States R & D International, Inc. to conduct a simulated vat leach test to determine copper recovery in relation to acid consumption on minus three-quarter inch copper mineralized material from Longshot Ridge. A 13.67 kilogram composite of typical copper oxide material was placed into a 5½ foot high column and leached with 25 gram per liter sulfuric acid for 19 days. Results of the test indicated a 39.41% copper recovery with total acid consumption of 174.7 pounds per ton of mineralized material.
General Geology
The New York Canyon Project lies within the central portion of the Walker Lane structural belt, a broad zone of northwest-southeast striking parallel to sub-parallel, right lateral strike-slip faults extending for more than 400 miles through western Nevada and into northern California. The structural belt was initiated during the Jurassic period, at which time a number of important porphyry copper deposits and related skarn deposits, such as Yerington, were formed. Volcanism and related hydrothermal mineralization, often of Tertiary age, are recognized along the length of this structural trend. Significant mining districts associated with the Walker Lane Belt, in addition to Yerington, include Comstock, Goldfield, Rawhide, Tonopah-Hall, Dome Hill and numerous other copper and/or gold-silver occurrences.
The New York Canyon area stratigraphy is comprised mostly of conformable marine sedimentary units of Triassic and Jurassic ages which are intruded by granitic rocks of Cretaceous age. Tertiary-age non-mineralized volcanic flows locally cover these older rocks on the hills and Quaternary-age alluvium and colluvium cover them in the valleys. At New York Canyon, the rocks are disrupted by structures mostly related to the Walker Lane structural belt. These structures provide conduits for mineralizing fluids and often subsequently disrupt mineralized zones.
The oldest rocks belong to the middle to late Triassic age Luning Formation, consisting predominately of dolomite, dolomitic limestone and limestone with minor shale, argillite and conglomerate. Project mapping and logging of drill holes indicate this sequence is approximately 2000 thinner in the Project area than its regionally mapped thickness of more than 10,000 feet. The Luning limestones are thin to medium bedded and intercalated with siltstones in the bottom 1000 feet of the sequence, and massive to thick bedded in the top 4000 feet of the sequence.
The late Triassic age Gabbs Formation conformably overlies the Luning Formation. The Gabbs Formation consists of three members: a thin bedded fossiliferous limestone, argillaceous limestone, and calcareous tuffaceous siltstone. The type locality of the Gabbs Formation is in New York Canyon, where its thickness is measured as 400 feet, but drill logs indicate it is up to 650 feet thick.
The Jurassic age Sunrise Formation conformably overlies the Gabbs Formation. The Sunrise Formation consists of five members with quartz latite porphyry flows near the base overlain by thin bedded limestones, siltstones, silty limestone, tuffaceous siltstone, shale and claystone totaling about 800 feet in thickness in the New York Canyon area.
The Jurassic age Dunlap Formation conformably overlies the Sunrise Formation. The Dunlap Formation is a 3000-foot thick sequence of basal conglomerate, limestones, clastic sediments, and volcanic flows of andesitic and rhyolitic composition.
The strata of New York Canyon are intruded by Jurassic to Cretaceous age multiphase domes, plugs, dikes and sills consisting primarily of diorite and granodiorite with areas of quartz monzonite, granite and other associated felsic rock types.
Numerous Tertiary age units (mostly Oligocene and Miocene age) consisting of mafic to felsic volcanics, volcanoclastics, flows, tuffs, tuffaceous sediments, and continental sediments locally overlie the older rocks. These lithologies are of varying thicknesses ranging from 100s of feet to more than 1000 feet.
Quaternary age deposits consisting of various alluvial and lacustrine sediments comprise the youngest units in the area and fill the valley bottoms and form pediments along the range fronts. These young units may be 200 feet or more thick.
Property Geology at New York Canyon
The upper New York Canyon area consists primarily of the Luning Formation which is overlain by the Gabbs and Sunrise Formations in the Longshot Ridge area. The Luning Formation exposed beneath the Longshot Ridge area consists of gray to tan colored, thickbedded limestone and dolomite. Felsic sills and dikes intrude all units in the area.
The Gabbs Formation at Longshot Ridge is extremely calc-silicate altered. It was originally a very thin bedded to laminated limestone and silty limestone intercalated with siltstone and shale. The Gabbs Formation is comprised of three members: (#1) the lowest member, which is 250 feet thick, consisting of thick black bioclastic limestone intercalated with siltstone, (#2) the middle member, 200 feet thick, consisting of predominately argillaceous limestone intercalated with calcareous and tuffaceous siltstone, and (#3) the upper member, from 0 to 200 feet thick, consisting of argillaceous limestone intercalated with siltstone. The black bioclastic carbonaceous limestone at the base of the Gabbs Formation is a distinct unit which provides a clear marker for the contact with the underlying Luning Formation.
The two lowest members of the Sunrise Formation at Longshot Ridge are also calcsilicate altered. The Sunrise consists of five members: (#1) the lowest member, 100 feet thick, consisting of argillaceous limestone intercalated with siltstone and some quartz latite porphyry flows near the base, overlain by (#2), 50 feet thick, consisting of thick-bedded fossiliferous limestone intercalated with siltstone and silty limestone, overlain by (#3), 250 feet thick, consisting of shale and siltstone, overlain by (#4), 200 feet thick, consisting of silty limestone and limestone, and capped by (#5), 200 feet thick, consisting of claystone and limestone.
The Dunlap formation, mentioned in the previous description of regional geology, is not present in the Longshot Ridge area. Similarly, only one of the Tertiary-age volcanic sequences exists along the flank of Longshot Ridge.
The intrusive rocks (Fi) on Longshot Ridge are primarily sills with some local dikes. Rock types mapped at the surface and encountered in drill holes consist of granodiorite porphyry, porphyritic quartz monzonite, quartz monzonite porphyry and quartz-feldspar porphyry. These sills and dikes are typically only 5 to 20 feet thick but are relatively common throughout the area.
Rock strata on Longshot Ridge average N75°E in strike dip about 35°. The rocks are severely faulted and folded. Drag and overturned features are common. The major faults are curvilinear with fairly high dip angles that commonly change along the strike of the structure. The faults generally trend either northeast or northwest, but there are some local faults that strike north and dip steeply east. For the most part, the faults appear to have normal displacements ranging from 50 to 200 feet.
Deposit Types at New York Canyon Project
Mineralization in the New York Canyon Project occurs principally as contact metasomatic copper skarn deposits and as possible copper porphyry deposits within intrusive bodies at depth beneath the skarns.
Contact metasomatic deposits include a variety of types such as those that are copper-rich, ironrich, tungsten-rich, etc. The deposits are commonly referred to as skarns when rich in copper and tactites when rich in tungsten. Minerals associated with the copper-rich skarn deposits typically include chalcopyrite, bornite, magnetite, specularite, pyrite, pyrrhotite, sphalerite, and molybdenite. Alteration associated with the skarn deposits converts limestone and limy sediments to higher temperature calc-silicate minerals consisting of garnet, epidote, diopside, tremolite and calcite.
Skarn deposits are always adjacent to small to moderate sized intrusive bodies of intermediate composition such as monzonite and granodiorite. These intrusive bodies - occurring mainly as sills, dikes, plugs or stocks - are the sources for the mineralizing and altering hydrothermal fluids and for the heat that drives the fluids. Skarn mineralization develops along specific altered beds of carbonate rock in zones of strong deformation or faulting adjacent to the intrusive bodies.
The New York Canyon copper skarns closely fit these descriptions. The skarns either consist mostly of oxidized minerals, as at Longshot Ridge, or they consist of both oxidized and sulfide minerals as at the Champion prospect west of Longshot Ridge.
Skarn type copper deposits are occasionally associated with larger intrusive bodies that are hosts for porphyry type copper-molybdenum deposits, such as the major Carr Fork copper skarns associated with the world-class Bingham Canyon porphyry copper deposit in Utah. Sizes can range from 10 million to 100 million tons or more with grades of 1% to 2% Cu. Associated metallic minerals include chalcopyrite, bornite, magnetite, specularite, pyrite, pyrrhotite, sphalerite, and molybdenite. Other examples of significant skarn deposits associated with large porphyry-copper deposits include Santa Rita-Pinos Altos in New Mexico, Mason Valley-Copper Canyon in Nevada, and Mission-Pima in Arizona.
Porphyry-type copper-molybdenum deposits are closely associated with and related to moderate sized intrusive rock bodies of intermediate to felsic composition. Porphyry-type mineralization consists of disseminated sulfides and crosscutting stockwork quartz-sulfide veins or veinlets occurring within the intrusive body and extending outward into the surrounding rocks. The intrusive bodies are commonly 0.3 to 1 mile or more across and their emplacement produces large volumes of altered and intensely fractured ground.
At Copper Queen, the westernmost New York Canyon target, known mineralization, incompletely explored to date, consists of both non-oxidized copper sulfide skarns and potential porphyry-type copper-molybdenum sulfides in the underlying intrusive body. The porphyry mineralization remains an exploration target of possible large size based on (1) the widespread occurrences of oxide copper showings on the surface, (2) limited geophysical surveys, (3) apparent doming of the overlying sediments, and (4) the district’s location within the Walker Lane structural belt which hosts several large porphyry systems such as Yerington to the northwest and Hall Mountain to the southeast. Exploration targets for the project might range from 150 million to 400 million tons as grades of 0.4% to 0.5% copper with possible credits in molybdenum.
Mineralization at New York Canyon Project
Mineralization in the New York Canyon Project consists of three principal copper target areas: Longshot Ridge on the east, Champion in the center, and Copper Queen on the west. These target areas are aligned along a west-northwest trend that probably reflects deeper basement structures.
The Longshot Ridge and Champion prospects both contain numerous widespread showings of copper skarn mineralization exposed in surface outcrops and in old mine workings. In contrast, the Copper Queen prospect has no exposed mineralization at the surface but contains copper sulfide skarn at depth and an incompletely tested copper-molybdenum sulfide porphyry system at greater depth. Recent exploration in the New York Canyon Project has focused mainly on the extensive oxide copper skarn mineralization at Longshot Ridge. This mineralization is the subject of this report.
Hydrothermal alteration and mineralization at Longshot Ridge has formed copper-rich skarn in porous and permeable zones within sedimentary rock strata of the Luning, Gabbs and Sunrise Formations. Additionally copper-rich stockwork veinlets in permeable fractures occur in some of the felsic porphyry intrusive dikes and sills that intrude the rock strata. The alteration associated with the intrusive bodies consists of argillization, phyllic, and silicification which are typical for rocks of this type.
The oxide copper minerals abundantly present at Longshot Ridge are apparently products of the supergene weathering and oxidation of primary copper sulfide minerals which were present in the original skarn. The copper mineralization consists almost entirely of secondary copper minerals, principally malachite, azurite, chrysocolla and copper wad. Additionally, some copper-rich limonite (goethite) is reported. A fairly common greenish clay alteration mineral is thought to be a zinc-bearing clay. Because limestones tend to buffer the solutions that carry copper in a supergene environment, the copper weathered from sulfides in the skarn migrates to the non-skarn limestone units where it may be enriched by as much as 300 to 400 percent.
About 90 percent of the Longshot Ridge mineralization is within the two upper units of the Gabbs Formation. Drilling results indicate that the strongest, thickest and most continuous mineralization occurs in a northeast-trending zone, 200 feet wide by 1300 feet long, which is crossed by two northwest-trending structurally-controlled high grade zones, each about 100 feet wide and from 400 to 700 feet long. Mineralization in these trends is from 100 feet to 200 feet thick and covers an area of 500,000 square feet down to a depth of 350 feet, using a 0.30% Cu/ft cutoff. Within this area are many smaller higher-grade zones. A comparison of adjacent holes and twins of previously drilled holes indicates this copper mineralization has good continuity.
The copper skarns and supergene enriched zones are relatively flat lying to only gently dipping (less than 30º dip to the south). For this reason, the thicknesses of mineralization intersected by the vertical holes drilled to test this system represent the approximate true thicknesses of the mineralization.
Luning Formation - these carbonates consist primarily of dolomite and limestone. Alteration associated with these rocks includes a skarn mineral suite consisting primarily of serpentine, talc, garnet, magnetite, and locally diopside. The serpentine and talc minerals in skarn form sinuous veins along the structures within the dolomite and are very diagnostic of skarn formation in dolomite. Due to the massive nature of the Luning Formation, the altering and mineralizing solutions closely followed high-angle cross-cutting structures and formed limited skarn halos with only small areas of moderately high grade copper mineralization.
The Luning also has some small local zones of hematite and dolomite containing jasperoid veins a few feet thick. These consist of fine-grained silica, hematite, goethite, limonite and copper oxides. Historically, all the higher-grade copper shipped from this district during World War I was from the copper skarns in the Luning, not from the copper skarns in the Gabbs.
Gabbs Formation - The principal host for the Longshot Ridge copper skarn deposits are impure thin-bedded sandy limestone and siltstone in the upper two units of the Gabbs Formation. The alteration associated with these rocks is either a skarn mineral suite consisting of garnet, diopside and magnetite in the limestone, or is hornfels developed in the siltstone. The copper mineralization is much more widespread, but lower grade for the reasons stated in the previous Luning skarn description. The diopside-rich Gabbs skarns are more abundantly fractured and mineralized due to the brittle nature of diopside, and for this reason these skarns are slightly higher grade than the garnet-rich skarn. Commonly the Gabbs skarns are only a few feet thick (5 to 15 feet), but there are many of them.
The lowest Gabbs unit, a carbonaceous bioclastic limestone, is the location of the “marble line,” which is the alteration boundary between marbleized and calc-silicate altered limestone. This unit rarely forms skarns. The upper two units are hosts for the plentiful skarns and hornfels formed when the hydrothermal solutions traveled up structures and outward along permeable units. These same structures and permeable beds were later intruded by granodiorite porphyry dikes and sills. The intrusive bodies proximal to the skarns are most commonly sills but dikes are locally present.
Sunrise Formation - The two lowest sedimentary units of the Sunrise Formation are impure thin-bedded sandy limestone and siltstone which are altered and mineralized. The alteration occurs as either a skarn mineral suite consisting of garnet, diopside and magnetite in the limestone, or as hornfels developed in the siltstone. The copper mineralization is much more widespread, but lower grade for the reasons stated above in the previous Luning skarn description. The diopside-rich skarns are more abundantly fractured and mineralized due to the brittle nature of diopside and for this reason these skarns are slightly higher grade than the garnet-rich skarns. The skarns in the Sunrise Formation are commonly very thick (50 feet). The largest of these is the Mayflower Mine, which was mined on a fairly large scale. This thick skarn is capped by a thick hornfels.
Current Exploration Program
We are in the process of completing a two-phase exploration program to effectively test the New York Canyon Project.
Phase One
Phase One of our exploration program involving the following activities:
•
re-analysis of 2006 Longshot Ridge drill pulps, duplicate samples, blank samples and standards by an independent laboratory to determine the correct copper values;
•
acquiring representative mineralized material at Longshot Ridge for metallurgical testwork samples to determine the optimal copper beneficiation process;
•
initiate environmental base line studies for permitting advanced exploration.
Re-Analysis of 2006 Longshot Ridge
In March 2012, we completed the re-analysis of 33 drill holes from the 2006 Longshot Ridge program. The 33 drill holes in 2006, comprised of 26 reverse circulation holes totaling 8,818 ft (2,688 meters) and 7 HQ core holes totaling 2,805 feet (855 meters), were not included in the 2010 resource estimate due to extremely high variability in the duplicate, blank and standard check samples.
Note 7 holes did not have any assay due to small pulp size.
Geochemical Sampling Program
In summer 2012, we commenced a geochemical program to cover the considerable area of the New York Canyon Project with a survey of arroyo/stream sediments. The purpose of the survey is to assess the potential for areas of mineralization that may be associated with the several areas of old prospects and workings within the claims. We anticipate that this exploration will take approximately six months to complete for a total cost of $125,000.
Environmental Base Line Studies
In the event that we proceed with Phase Two of our drilling program, we will need to complete our proposed environmental base line study. We anticipate that the environmental base line study will cost approximately $55,000.
Phase Two
The estimated costs of the Phase Two program are detailed in following table and include:
•
definition drilling, permitting and scoping studies designed to advance the Longshot Ridge project to a pre- feasibility stage;
•
drill-testing geophysical targets generated from the IP survey and other geological targets in the Copper Queen and Champion areas;
•
continuation of metallurgical testwork to refine the optimal copper beneficiation process for completion of a pre- feasibility study.
Our ability to commence and complete Phase Two of our exploration program is subject to our obtaining substantial financing, of which there is no assurance.
MOONLIGHT PROPERTY
Description of Property
We hold an option to acquire a 100% interest in 307 unpatented mineral claims having an area of approximately 6,300 acres located on the northern end of the Walker Lane Belt in Plumas County, California (the “Moonlight Property”). We acquired our interest in the Moonlight Property pursuant to the Assignment Agreement among Metamin Enterprises Inc. (the “Assignor”), a company controlled by Benjamin Ainsworth, our President, Secretary and director, Metamin Enterprises USA Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Assignor, and the Company. In consideration of the assignment, we agreed to:
We also reimbursed the Assignor approximately $90,000 for annual maintenance and exploration expenses previously incurred on the Moonlight Property by the Assignor. The Assignor will retain a 1% net smelter return on metals extracted from the Moonlight Property, which can be repurchased by us for $1,000,000, and a gross overriding royalty of 2.5% on receipts from the sale of industrial minerals.
As we acquired the Assignor’s right and interest in the Option Agreement, we will also be required to do the following in order to maintain and exercise the Option:
Under the Option Agreement, we are also required to incur $100,000 in exploration expenditures on the Moonlight Property by February 18, 2013. The Optionor will retain a 1% net smelter return on metals extracted from the Moonlight Property, which can be repurchased by us for $1,000,000, and a gross overriding royalty of 2.5% on receipts from the sale of industrial minerals.
In order to maintain Moonlight Property claims each year we must pay a maintenance fee of $140 per claim to the California State Office of the Bureau of Land Management. We have paid the required maintenance fees and filed the affidavits required in order to extend the claims to August 31, 2013.
Location and Access, Climate, Locale Resources and Physiography
The Moonlight Property is located about 10 miles northeast of Greenville, California and about 100 miles northwest of Reno, Nevada. The property is accessed from the Reno Nevada International airport by taking US Interstate 395 northwest for approximately 85 miles to the town of Susanville California. At the town, turn south onto State Highway 36 towards the town of Westwood for approximately 18.6 miles to a secondary road heading south (approximately 2.2 miles east of Westwood). The western most edge of the Moonlight Property is approximately 12.6 miles from the turnoff of Highway 36 via a series of gravel roads, many of which are actively used by logging companies operating east of the company’s claim block. The access is good all across the current project ground utilizing active forestry roads and many old drill access roads completed by Placer in the 1960-70’s.
The Moonlight Property is situated in the Sierra Nevada province of California, characterized by north-northwest trending mountain ranges separated by alluvial filled valleys. The claims vary in elevation from a low of approximately 5,520feet (1,682 meters) in the Moonlight Valley at the western edge of the property, to a high of approximately 6,420 feet (1,957 meters) on the peak in the southeast corner of the property. Outside the claims to the northwest of the claim block, elevation rises steeply to Moonlight Peak where elevations reach approximately 6,830 feet (2,082 meters). There are a few bedrock exposures on the property and only a thin soil development on the upland portion of the blocks. The Moonlight Valley floor has virtually no bedrock exposure.
The climate is defined by hot summers to a maximum of 100 F and cold, windy winters with lows to -10 F. Precipitation is moderately light with an average rainfall of 30” and an average snowfall of approximately 140”. Spring and autumn months are moderate in temperature. The vegetation varies depending on elevation and moisture. Cedar, lodgepole pine, mountain mahogany, and juniper grow on the slopes of the project ground. Some studies have been done on lichen that may indicate copper mineralization at depth but no final conclusions have been completed on the lichen distribution. The Moonlight Property area is fairly dry with numerous small dry drainages scattered throughout the claim block, water will need to be trucked during drilling phases. The Mountain Meadows Reservoir is located approximately six miles to the west-northwest of the property which could supply water for all advanced exploration activities on the property.
The area is serviced by Pacific Gas & Electric Company and significant high tension power lines lie close to the project ground and parallel Highway 36. The nearest rail line is the Western Pacific that runs through the town of Westwood, approximately 15 road miles to the west of the property. International air services are located in Reno, approximately 85 miles southeast of Susanville. The closest deep water port is Sacramento which is located approximately 150 miles to the southwest.
There is a highly trained mining-industrial workforce available in Carlin-Elko area of northern Nevada which is located approximately 250 road miles from the Moonlight Property area. Most all supplies are available at Carlin, Elko or Reno, where all the needed equipment, supplies and services for mining companies to conduct full exploration and mining development projects are available
Exploration and mining can be conducted year-round, due to the established road and its proximity to infrastructure. The property is large enough to support all future exploration or mining operations including facilities and potential waste disposal areas. Potential processing plant sites may have to be located closer to water. Controlling the mineral rights under valid lode claims will not fully entitle the company to develop a mine. Permitting will need to be carefully planned and executed to be sustainable in the community and this area of California.
History
Plumas County was actively explored between 1863 and the 1930’s. In 1885, Henry Engels first discovered in the Lights Creek area which eventually became the Engels Mine. The Engels Mine is located approximately 2.6 miles east of the Moonlight Property. The mine shut down in the 1930’s and since that time there have been sporadic periods of exploration activity. The Engels Mining Company also operated the Superior Mine, which is southeast to the Moonlight Property between 1922 and 1930.
In 1953 and 1954 Newmont Mining Co. completed a preliminary aerial geologic map of the Lights Creek area of the Moonlight Property.
In 1961, American Exploration and Mining (“Amex”), a subsidiary of Placer Dome, began an initial investigation, being reconnaissance and magnetometer surveys, of the Lights Creek area. In October 1962, Amex completed preliminary geological investigations of the various known mineral occurrences in the area. That was followed in by geochemical stream-sediment and soil sampling of the area that outlined six large anomalous zones within an area of about six square miles. One of the copper soil anomalies coincides with the present Moonlight deposit. This resulted in the first claims staked in the Moonlight Valley in late 1964. Preliminary drilling was completed on the Sulfide Ridge geochemical anomaly located outside the present day Moonlight Property. In mid-1966, Induced Polarization surveys were conducted over many of the known mineral occurrences in the Lights Creek district. This survey produced anomalies in the area of the present day Moonlight deposit.
In August 1966, the first drill hole in the Moonlight deposit was completed. This hole, ML-1, showed encouraging results, being disseminated bornite in top 220 feet of hole. Encouraged by the results, Amex staked additional claims and continued drilling through to December 1966. This work indicated that a significant low-grade disseminated copper mineralized zone was present on the Moonlight Property.
During the last half of 1967, Amex completed additional drilling and initiated detailed petrological studies. At this point, diamond drilling in the area totaled 142,093 feet and included drilling on all mineral showings such as Moonlight, Superior, Engels and other satellite showings. At this junction in the program, Amex determined that there was a problem with all the previous analyses that had been completed at their own Golden Sunlight Mine assay facilities in Montana. Therefore, they decided that all drill samples must be re-assayed by an independent firm, Union Assay.
In early 1968, Amex began an investigation of the metallurgy of the deposit with the shipment of two large composited samples to the Placer Dome laboratory in Salmo, B.C. By spring 1968, the re-assaying program had been completed; Amex resumed drilling and carried on through to January 1969. In addition, Amex completed further claim staking. Drilling resumed in August 1969 and continued sporadically until November 1970. In 1969-1970, Amex commissioned a number of independent geophysical studies that were completed on the property including an airborne gamma ray spectrometer survey, IP surveys, and detailed ground magnetometer survey. The IP survey successful identified the north-eastern extension to the Moonlight mineralized body which was subsequently confirmed by drilling. During the same period, Amex completed a number of computer modeling studies in an attempt to look for trends in grade and for possible correlation between degree of fracturing and grade. Several in-house and independent resource estimations were completed by December 1970. In addition, Amex completed a three-dimensional model and a computer designed open pit was complete, using a three-D optimization program and manual smoothing techniques.
The project was put on hold from 1971-1994, with respect to any new field exploration, due to the declining copper prices in the early 1970’s and the change in focus within Amex. In 1994, Amex dropped all interest in the project, allowed the claims to lapse.
In 2007, Sheffield Resources Ltd. (“Sheffield”) acquired an option to purchase the Moonlight Property. Between 2005 to 2007, Sheffield completed a detailed surface sampling program on the Moonlight Property. This sampling program consisted of 304 surface and underground samples. In 2006, Sheffield completed a 14 hole diamond drill program totaling 11,135 feet.
Geology at Moonlight Property
The Moonlight Property is hosted in the Lights Creek intrusive stock which lies near the triple point junction of the Cascade, Sierra Nevada, and Basin and Range provinces. The Moonlight, Engels and Superior deposits are located in the Lights Creek district at the north end of the 25 mile long 5 mile wide Plumas Copper Belt.
The Plumas Copper Belt is situated along the northwest extension of the Walker Lane Mineral Belt. The Walker Lane has hosted some of the biggest precious and base metal mines in the western US and major discoveries continue to be made along this prolific trend.
Triassic-Jurassic weakly metamorphosed basalts and andesites are intruded by late Jurassic-Cretaceous plutonic rocks of varying composition in the Lights Creek district. The roof pendant metavolcanics have been largely eroded in the Lights Creek district exposing a 7 square mile area of the Lights Creek Stock. Earlier work suggests there are five distinct batholithic differentiates in the Lights Creek area.
The Lights Creek Stock refers to quartz monzonite, which is the ore host at the Moonlight and Superior deposits. Both Sheffield and Placer have noted that the quartz monzonite tends to be finer grained with a more porphyritic texture near the contact with metavolcanics and less potassium feldspar-rich and more equigranular with depth and towards the center of the quartz monzonite stock.
Deposit Types at Moonlight Property
The Moonlight copper deposit is classified as a porphyry copper deposit with associated gold, silver and molybdenum credits.
Typical porphyry copper deposits are cylindrical, stock-like composite bodies having elongate outcrops 1.5 x 2 km in diameter and containing an outer shell of medium to coarse-grained equigranular rock with a porphyritic core of similar composition. The most common ore hosts are quartz monzonite to granodiorite felsic plutonic rocks. In addition, a second population of deposits occurs in more mafic intrusive rocks of syenitic to dioritic composition.
Typically, four alteration halos are often present roughly centered on the porphyry stock:
•
Potassic Zone - this zone was always present and characterized by secondary potassium feldspar (K- spar), biotite and/or chlorite replacing primary K-spar, plagioclase and mafics. Minor sericite may be present.
•
Phyllic Zone - not always present a characterized by vein quartz, sericite and pyrite with minor chlorite, illite and rutile replacing the K-spar and biotite.
•
Argillic Zone - was not always present. It is identified by the clay minerals kaolinite and montmorillonite with minor disseminated pyrite. Plagioclase is strongly altered, K-spar unaffected and biotite chloritized.
•
Propylitic Zone -always present and contains chlorite, calcite and minor epidote. The mafic minerals are highly altered while the plagioclase is less altered.
At depth all zones are thought to coalesce into a single, large K-spar-quartz- chlorite-sericite unit.
The closest known porphyry copper deposit in this area of NW United States is the Yerington copper deposits located 60 miles south east of Reno (approximately 145 miles southeast of the Moonlight deposit). The Yerington porphyry copper deposit lies in the central portion of the mid-Jurassic Yerington batholith, a three phase intrusive body composed of an older granodiorite, a quartz monzonite and a younger quartz monzonite porphyry dyke swarm. The mine operated by Anaconda Copper from 1952-1978 and produced approximately 162 million tons of oxide and sulphide copper ore averaging 0.55% Cu. From 1990-1999, Arimetco Inc. produced approximately 31,500 tons of copper from oxide ore using SXEW technology.
Placer recognized that the deposits of the Lights Creek district had many characteristics which were not typical of porphyry copper deposits and lacked many of the typical features.
Many copper deposits which had previously been classified as porphyry copper-type have now been recharacterized as belonging to the iron oxide copper-type. There is considerable evidence that the Lights Creek deposits should be included in this group. Deposits with a fairly wide variety of characteristics have been classified as belonging to the iron oxide copper group. However the characteristics listed below are consistently used to classify these types of deposits.
•
Abundant magnetite and/or hematite which is often specular. If both are present, hematite is more common higher in the system.
•
Low pyrite content with increased pyrite often located beneath and adjacent to the ore zone.
•
Typically tabular shaped orebody rather than cylindrical or deep sided cupola-shaped like porphyry copper deposits.
•
Abundant bornite and/or hypogene chalcocite often as a late fracture filling phase of mineralization.
• Anomalous Au, Ag, U, and rare earth elements.
The Lights Creek deposits show all of these characteristics.
Mineralized diabase dikes have been observed at both Moonlight and Superior raising the question of how long after the crystallization of the quartz monzonite did some of the mineralization take place. More study is needed before a more complete genetic model can be developed for the Lights Creek district.
Mineralization at Moonlight Property
Regional Mineralization
The Lights Creek stock appears to be unique to Northern California as it hosts porphyry copper-type mineralization. At least three zones of copper mineralization have been delimited by past workers.
Property Mineralization-Engels
The steeply northward plunging, tabular Engels copper ore body is contained in a vertical shear zone that ranges from 25 to 125 feet in width. The ore principally consisted of bornite and chalcopyrite hosted in a hornblende gabbro body. Younger quartz diorite and quartz monzonite bodies are associated with the gabbro and likely played an important role in the placement of the copper mineralization.
Property Mineralization-Superior
The Superior mine is thought to have formed at a higher temperature than the Moonlight deposit. The previously mined deposit consists of a stockwork of seven parallel, northeasterly striking, and easterly dipping (550-800) vein zones. The veins principally consist of chalcopyrite and some bornite, along with associated magnetite and pyrite and are 8-20 ft thick. Magnetite is more prevalent at the Superior Mine than at the Moonlight deposit while specularite, common at Moonlight is non-existent at Superior. The Superior mine exhibits some porphyry like attributes and similarities to Moonlight in that they are both found within an intrusive body in close proximity to an older metavolcanic sequence. Its copper mineralization is contained in stockwork vein system hosted in a similar quartz monzonite body to the host of the Moonlight deposit. Mineralization historically was mined from steeply dipping, thick chalcopyrite rich veins, steeply dipping controls to the mineralization at Moonlight are only now being considered important. A large body of disseminated copper mineralization has been identified at Superior as the result of work completed by Placer/Amex. They drilled approximately 96 drill holes or approximately 50,200 feet of diamond drilling (including 3,550 feet of rotary drilling) from 1964-1968.
Property Mineralization-Moonlight
Two different styles of mineralization were revealed by Sheffield’s drilling. An earlier stage of disseminated very fine grained copper minerals is commonly located interstitial to silicates and especially to disseminated rosettes of tourmaline. Most of the copper encountered in drilling the southern part of the Moonlight deposit was contained in this disseminated style of mineralization. Copper mineralization is also contained in later stage veinlets and crackle breccias associated with tourmaline, quartz, hematite and magnetite. Pyrite is virtually absent in both styles of mineralization at the depths drilled at Moonlight. However, some pyrite was encountered at the deeper levels of drilling and may be more abundant at greater depths.
Oriented core and inspection of the bedrock in drilling sumps and shallow prospect workings showed that copper mineralization was contained on fractures with a wide variety of orientations. Strong copper mineralization was commonly observed on veinlets trending N20-35W and dipping 15-35 SW. In addition to the mineralization in shallow dipping fractures, copper is contained on NS steep to moderately E dipping, N60-75E steeply N dipping, N70-85W steeply south dipping veinlets. A more complete description of the geologic characteristics of the deposit is presented in the geology section below.
Both Sheffield and Placer have recognized that there at least two styles or stages of mineralization at the Moonlight deposit. The paragenetically earlier style is characterized by disseminated copper minerals located interstitial to quartz, feldspar, chlorite and especially disseminated rosettes of tourmaline. This mineralization usually consists of fine grained chalcopyrite but zones of disseminated bornite are also common. High in the system disseminated hypogene chalcocite has also been occasionally observed. Bornite has been observed to rim chalcopyrite grains in some places. Placer characterized this mineralization as late stage magmatic or pneumatolytic. A metasomatic origin should not be precluded. This style of mineralization shows some association with potassium feldspar and a very strong association with tourmaline and sometimes chlorite abundance.
Unless overprinted by second stage fracture or breccia hosted mineralization, this style of mineralization has typically been observed to assay 0.1 - 0.8 %Cu. Visual estimates from core logging suggest that this style of mineralization accounts for less than 25 % of the copper value in the north part of the deposit around Sheffield holes 06MN-9,10,11,12. It is estimated to account for about 50% of the copper in the central part of the deposit around holes 05MN-1,2 and 06MN-8,13,14 and approximately 75% of the copper value in the southern part of the deposit around holes 06MN-3,4,5,6.
The second transgressive stage of mineralization is characterized by veinlets or stockwork breccias which often have a gangue of tourmaline and lesser quartz with strong hematite. Strong copper mineralization was commonly observed on veinlets trending N20-35W and dipping 15 -35 SW. The overall orientation of the Moonlight deposit appears to be parallel to these gently southwest dipping fractures and indicates a good exploration target underneath the metavolcanics to the southwest. In addition to the mineralization in shallow dipping fractures, copper is contained on N-S steep to moderately E dipping, N60-75E steeply N dipping, N70-85W steeply south dipping veinlets. Although fracture hosted mineralization is widespread and often high grade at Moonlight, drilling to date has not revealed extensive vein-like structures similar to those mined at the Superior and Engels mines.
The copper sulfides show a very strong vertical zonation, with chalcocite or digenite predominating in the upper levels of the deposit. With increasing depth, bornite predominates and chalcopyrite appears. Bornite is often observed to rim or cut chalcopyrite. Bornite and chalcopyrite are also observed to be cut by chalcocite veinlets. At the deeper levels chalcopyrite typically predominates in fracture hosted mineralization, but bornite is often still abundant. Magnetite can sometimes appear with hematite decreasing in abundance with depth. In rare cases pyrite will appear in veinlets at depth. Iron or magnesium-rich carbonates are also common in fracture hosted mineralization. Late stage copper-poor calcite and quartz veinlets that cut both preceding types of mineralization are also common.
Sericitic, chloritic and albitic alteration has been observed to form halos around veinlets and breccia zones. Epidote becomes more abundant in and around veinlets with depth. Potassium feldspar is abundant but it is unclear how much is primary and how much is hydrothermal. In addition to the quartz, feldspar and 1-5% disseminated tourmaline that typically makes up the Lights Creek Quartz Monzonite, there is 2-8% finely disseminated hematite and magnetite. The hematite is typically specular and thin section work indicates that it is usually replacing magnetite. This replacement by hematite decreases with depth and the quartz monzonite is typically more magnetic with depth
This veinlet or breccia hosted mineralization is much more common in the northern part of the deposit and chalcocite-rich mineralization here commonly runs more than 1%. In holes 06MN-9,10,11,2 chalcocite-rich mineralization grades quickly into chalcopyrite with depth and bornite is not very abundant. In the southern and central parts of the deposit the chalcocite-bornitechalcopyrite zonation is well developed. Fracture hosted mineralization sometimes runs more than 1% copper in the central and southern portions of the deposit as well.
Current Exploration Program
We have commenced permitting for a shallow reverse circulation drill program at the Moonlight copper oxide deposit in order to establish a resource estimate of the oxide mineralization. The drill program is planned for late 2012 and will be greatly facilitated by the network of new logging roads in the area. In support of this work, the old drill core, in storage in nearby Crescent Mills, will be re-logged to confirm the limits of the oxide mineralization and the bornite chalcocite sulphide mineralization. We anticipate the cost of this drill program will be $250,000.
ITEM 3.