Item 2. Properties
Our principal executive office consists of 2,956 square feet and is located at One Maritime Plaza, Suite 700, San Francisco, CA 94111.
Description of the Properties
Our current oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and development drilling activities are focused in four distinct project areas as follows:
· United States-Texas (onshore South and East Texas regions), Alaska (onshore Cook Inlet area) and California (onshore San Joaquin basin);
· Canada-Alberta (central Alberta basin);
· Indonesia-onshore East Kalimantan Province; and
· Australia-onshore in two permit areas located in the South Perth basin.
We do not fully insure against all business risks either because such insurance is not available or because premium costs are prohibitive. This is a common practice in the oil and gas industry. We believe our property is adequately insured in view of the nature of our operations and industry practices in this regard.
Texas
Madisonville Project, Madison County, East Texas
We own and operate the interest in the Madisonville Project in Madison County, Texas. We own working interests in approximately 4,716 gross and net acres of leases in the Rodessa Formation interval, as well as approximately 4,348 gross and net acres of leases as to depths below the Rodessa Formation interval. We also own a license as to 12.5 square miles of 3-D seismic data over the Madisonville Field.
The Madisonville Field, located approximately 100 miles north of Houston, has produced oil and natural gas from four different horizons above the Rodessa Formation for over 50 years. The field was discovered in 1945 with the Boring No. 1 well, which was drilled to the Rodessa Formation. The well blew out at an uncontrolled rate for three days during a test; however, due to hydrogen sulphide, carbon dioxide and nitrogen in the Rodessa Formation natural gas, the gas reserves were never developed. Over 125 wells were drilled in the Madisonville Field to shallower intervals above the Rodessa Formation. In 1994, nearly 50 years after the initial discovery, United Meridian Corporation (“UMC”) drilled the Magness Well as the first follow-up well into the Rodessa Formation to the Boring No. 1 well. The Magness Well had 139 feet of net pay but the natural gas was found to contain 28% impurities.
UMC previously production tested the Magness Well in 1994 through perforations in the lower most ten feet of the indicated Rodessa Formation pay interval. The well tested at a rate of 12 MMcf/d from this limited interval on a 22/64ths inch choke with flowing wellhead pressures increasing from 3,915 to 3,919 pounds per square inch. In 2001, we re-entered and recompleted the Magness Well. A total of 139 feet of interval has been perforated in the Rodessa Formation at approximately 12,000 feet of depth for this well. The well was production tested over a 12-day period in 2001 on various choke sizes with flowing rates ranging up to approximately 20.8 MMcf/d. We own a 100% working interest (75.1333% net revenue interest) in the Magness Well located in the surrounding production unit consisting of 684 gross and 629 net acres. The Magness Well commenced production in May of 2003.
The first development well, the Fannin Well, was drilled and completed in 2004. We own a 100% working interest (69.9162% net revenue interest) in the Fannin Well located in the surrounding production unit consisting of 704 gross and net acres. A total of 146 feet of indicated pay was perforated in the well and a flow test of the well was completed in December 2004 from the Rodessa Formation at rates of up to 25.7 MMcf/d. We commenced production from the Fannin Well in early 2006.
The Madisonville Field is a geologic feature encompassing approximately 5,800 acres at the Rodessa limestone at about 11,800 feet of depth. A 3-D seismic program shot in early 1998 confirmed the size of the structure and slightly increased its size over earlier interpretations.
Our working interest covers the Rodessa Formation at approximately 12,000 feet of depth. The Rodessa reserves are being developed through the recompletion of the Magness Well and the drilling of additional proved and probable undeveloped locations. Production began in May 2003 and stabilized at a rate of 18 MMcf/d of raw gas from the Magness Well. In 2006, we drilled the Wilson and Mitchell wells. We own a 100% working interest (70% net revenue interest) in the Wilson and Mitchell wells. The Magness, Fannin and Mitchell wells are currently producing at a combined restricted rate of approximately 7 MMcf/d while the Wilson well is shut-in. Current net sales production is approximately 4 MMcf/d. In addition, we own a working interest in certain leases and farmout rights which cover depths below the Rodessa Formation.
The hydrogen sulphide, carbon dioxide and nitrogen combined comprise about 28% of the gas content. The untreated natural gas is delivered to the Madisonville Midstream Gas Treatment Plant where all the natural gas impurities are removed before delivery to the sales pipeline. As a result of the costs to treat the natural gas, we receive a net price that is substantially lower than we would otherwise receive if the gas did not contain the 28% of impurities. In addition, the high concentrations of hydrogen sulphide and carbon dioxide result in higher capital and operating costs for our wells. For example, the hydrogen sulphide and carbon dioxide are corrosive to the wellbores. This means we have to utilize higher grade specification well tubing and casing which is more expensive than what we would utilize absent the impurities. In addition, we continuously treat the wellbores with chemicals designed to inhibit the corrosive effects of the impurities. We also maintain field personnel at or near the wellsites who monitor the wells on a twenty four hour basis and equip the wellsites with extensive safety equipment systems due to the toxic properties of the hydrogen sulphide and carbon dioxide. These factors and others result in higher capital and operating costs for our wells in the Madisonville Project.
The Madisonville Midstream Gas Treatment Plant and Gathering Facilities
In order to produce the proved gas reserves from the Rodessa Formation, we developed an onsite plan to treat and remove impurities from the Madisonville Project natural gas in order to meet pipeline-quality specifications. On June 15, 2001, we, through our subsidiary Redwood LP, entered into an agreement, which agreement was subsequently amended and restated, together with certain related agreements (collectively, the “Hanover Agreement”), with Hanover Compression Limited Partnership pursuant to which Hanover committed to fund, construct and operate a dedicated natural gas treatment plant to process our Rodessa Formation natural gas. The Hanover Agreement also provided for the installation by Gateway of field gathering pipelines and an approximately nine-mile sales pipeline with an estimated capacity of approximately 70 MMcf/d to transport the Madisonville Field natural gas to a major pipeline. By April of 2003, the construction and installation of Hanover’s natural gas treatment plant and Gateway’s associated pipeline and gathering facilities were completed. Gas production from the Magness Well commenced in May 2003. We received the first revenues from the sale of natural gas from the Madisonville Project in July 2003.
On July 25, 2005, MGP purchased the natural gas treatment plant from Hanover and purchased the gathering pipelines upstream of the gas treatment plant from Gateway. Concurrent with MGP’s purchase of the gas treatment plant and gathering pipelines, we, through our subsidiary Redwood LP, Gateway and MGP terminated the Hanover Agreement and entered into a new agreement, (the “MGP Agreement”), to treat and transport our gas production from the Madisonville Project. As a result of the MGP Agreement, MGP committed to install and make operational additional treating facilities capable of treating 50 MMcf/d, which combined with the capacity of the current in-service treating facilities would represent a total treating capacity of 68 MMcf/d for the Madisonville treatment plant. The MGP Agreement provided that the newly installed gas treatment facilities would be electrically driven. Currently, the existing in-service treatment plant utilizes some of the natural gas produced and delivered from our well(s). The conversion to electricity on the expanded portion of the treatment plant is expected to reduce shrinkage of our natural gas that occurs in the treating process.
Originally, the MGP Agreement required MGP to complete the additional treating facilities by March 1, 2006. However, due to events of force majeure, construction of the additional treating facilities was delayed. In early November 2007, MGP began testing the additional treatment facilities by accepting 20 MMcf/d at the inlet. Subsequently in December 2007, MGP temporarily suspended the operations of the additional treatment facilities in order to make modifications to more effectively deal with the presence of diamondoids in the gas stream produced from the Rodessa Formation. A diamondoid is a rare, naturally occurring compound that can segregate out of the gas stream upon a decrease in temperature and pressure and as such, could cause operational problems for the nitrogen rejection portion of the additional treating facilities. MGP obtained a detailed laboratory composition analysis of the diamondoids which indicated that removal of the diamondoids will require flowing the natural gas stream through a diesel contactor after the gas stream has had the hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide removed. Through this contactor process, the diesel will absorb the diamondoids from the gas stream prior to entry into the nitrogen removal tower.
During 2008, MGP analyzed various options for removing the diamondoids; however, they did not complete the necessary plant system modifications. On December 31, 2008, we purchased the gas treatment plant and related gathering pipelines from MGP in exchange for the assumption of secured bank debt, payment of certain outstanding payables of MGP and shares of GeoPetro’s common stock. The secured bank debt we incurred as part of the Plant acquisition totaled $6.7 million and is in the form of a 3 year loan with the lender, Bank of Oklahoma, National Association (“BOK”). The loan agreement provides for minimum quarterly principal payments of $150,000 and supplemental principal amounts payable upon GeoPetro achieving certain cash flow thresholds. The Company has pledged its Madisonville natural gas reserves as well as the Plant assets as collateral for the loan. There is a loan fee of $60,000 payable annually for any yearly period during which any principal remains outstanding under the loan. There is no prepayment penalty. GeoPetro and its wholly owned subsidiary Redwood Energy Production, LP (“Redwood”) are guarantors of the loan.
The effective date of the acquisition was December 31, 2008 and the new owner of the Plant is GeoPetro’s wholly-owned, indirect subsidiary, Madisonville Midstream LLC (“MM”). We expect to complete installation of the system modifications required in the new plant in 2009. In the meantime, the existing, in service portion of the plant continues to operate with a capacity of approximately 18 million cubic feet per day of inlet gas.
Our natural gas deliveries to our gas treatment plant may be affected by third party demands for access to the plant. On August 9, 2006, the Texas Railroad Commission issued an order requiring the Plant to ratably process, take, transport or purchase natural gas produced by Crimson Exploration, Inc. (“Crimson”) into the Madisonville gas treatment plant. There is no guarantee that we will be able to maintain full access to treatment capacity of up to 68 MMcf/d at the Madisonville Plant at all times because, for example, Crimson now has the right to have its natural gas treated at the plant, which may reduce the plant’s ability to treat all of our natural gas, unless the plant’s capacity is further expanded.
To date, Crimson has permitted four wells to be drilled to the Rodessa Formation. The drilling of two of these wells has been completed to a depth of approximately 12,635 feet. Crimson has also drilled an injection well for disposal of waste products resulting from the treatment of their natural gas. Crimson is presently delivering approximately 0.3 MMcf/d of natural gas to the treatment plant.
Other Interests in the Madisonville Project
Our working interest in the Madisonville Project is subject to a net profits interest in favor of the third party that sold us our working interests in the Madisonville Project. The net profits interest is 12.5% (proportionately reduced to our interest) of the net operating profits until payout is achieved. After payout, the net profits interest increases to 30% (proportionately reduced to our interest). “Payout”, for purposes of the net profits interest, is defined and achieved at such time as we have recouped from net operating cash flows our total net investment in the Madisonville Project plus a 33% cash on cash return.
South Dry Hollow Project, Lavaca County, South Texas
We own a 15% non-operated working interest in approximately 1,605 gross and 241 net acres of leases in Lavaca County, South Texas. A test well, the Willstar Eichhorn No. 1 well (the “Willstar well”), has been drilled to a total depth of 16,650 feet and is currently being evaluated. The primary objective of this well was to test the Rochelle sands in the Lower Wilcox formation. Secondary objectives include the “10,500”, Peck, Dagg, Lampley and Massive sandstone formations in the Wilcox formation. The Willstar well is a vertical well located approximately 800 feet south of the Eichhorn Gas Unit No. 1 well drilled by Newfield Exploration Company (the “Newfield well”) in 2002. The Newfield well was completed in 2002 in the Lampley member of the Wilcox formation at an initial rate of 3.8 MMcf/d and has produced approximately 0.9 Bcf of natural gas. The Newfield well also encountered natural gas shows in the Rochelle, “10,500”, Peck, Dagg, and Massive members of the Wilcox formation which were not tested. The Newfield Eichhorn well has subsequently been re-entered and completed in the “10,500” zone. This well may need to be fraced to increase production.
Alaska
The Cook Inlet Alaska Project
We entered into an agreement with Pioneer Oil Company, Inc. (“Pioneer”) dated April 20, 2005, wherein we secured the Cook Inlet Option to acquire a 100% working interest, 81% net revenue interest, in approximately 116,806 acres onshore in Cook Inlet, Alaska. We have since acquired 5,368 additional acres. We believe this acreage to be prospective for both conventional gas production and coal bed methane production.
The 122,174 acre lease position consists of two separate target areas that have been selected for exploration. These areas are called the Point MacKenzie and Trading Bay Prospects, respectively.
The Point MacKenzie Prospect is located twelve miles northwest of Anchorage. The Trading Bay Prospect is located 50 miles west of Anchorage across the Cook Inlet. The Cook Inlet basin contains a thick section of terrestrial Tertiary rocks which includes shales, sandstones, and coals. The coals occur in seams which are commonly 20 feet thick and can be as thick as 70 feet. Accessible onshore areas have 200 to 300 feet of coal shallower than 5,000 feet. Gas content for these coals ranges from 80 to 250 standard cubic feet per ton, but testing is restricted to a very small number of bore holes and is almost completely unknown for most of the inlet.
Markets for natural gas in the Cook Inlet area include power generation, heating, fertilizer production and liquefied natural gas exports. An extensive pipeline system supplies these facilities and crosses the Point MacKenzie Prospect and Trading Bay Prospect lease blocks. These pipelines are only partially filled with gas and could accommodate additional production.
In addition to coal bed methane reserve potential, preliminary log analysis indicates the Point MacKenzie Prospect and Trading Bay Prospect lease blocks may also contain conventional accumulations of natural gas reserves in Tertiary sandstones.
The terms of the Cook Inlet Option provide for us to pay total consideration of $20 per acre, or approximately $2.3 million, for the leases. The Cook Inlet Option provides that we will pay the total lease consideration in two installments. We paid the first installment totaling $1,168,063 on August 17, 2005 and we have received assignment of the 100% working interest in the leases. Within three years from the date of receipt of assignment of the 100% working interest in the leases, we have the option to conduct a $2.5 million work program on the leases over a three-year period, and, after completion of the work program and an evaluation of the results, to remit the final additional acreage consideration of $10 per acre for the leases. The Cook Inlet Option provides that if we fail to pay the lease consideration when due, fail to perform the work program or otherwise default under the Cook Inlet Option, we shall forfeit our interest and reassign the leases to Pioneer, and we will have no further liability to Pioneer.
On July 31, 2008, we entered into a third amendment with Pioneer. Per the terms of the amendment, the Company paid Pioneer the sum of $1,168,093 on August 7, 2008, which represents the second and final payment for leases comprising 116,806 acres onshore in Cook Inlet, Alaska. The amendment further provided that the work program requiring $2.5 million in expenditures by GeoPetro has been eliminated.
Approximately one to two miles of pipeline will be required to tie in any wells drilled at a currently preferred location at the Point MacKenzie Prospect, and approximately four to five miles of the pipeline will be required to tie in any wells drilled at a currently preferred location at the Trading Bay Prospect. We have not yet prepared an estimate of the cost to tie these wells in.
We are aware of two major pipelines which transverse the acreage blocks, the Enstar 20” line and the UnoCal-Marathon 16” line. We estimate the UnoCal-Marathon 16” line presently has available unused capacity of approximately 40 MMcf/d. In addition, we estimate the Enstar 20” line has available unused capacity of approximately 100 MMcf/d.
Significant operational progress has been made in our Cook Inlet Project within the past year and continues in preparation for drilling the Frontier Spirit #1 well. After reprocessing 50 miles 2-D seismic data which the Company acquired from AMOCO on our Point MacKenzie block, GeoPetro has identified a sizeable initial reserve target. The prospect covers eighteen sections (11,500 acres) under closure and will target conventional gas reserves in the Middle and Lower Tyonek Formations reaching to a depth of approximately 8,000 feet. The Hemlock Formation, a known oil and gas producer in the Cook Inlet, will be the secondary objective for the Frontier Spirit #1 well. GeoPetro has constructed a drill pad and access road at the Frontier Spirit #1 location. This work, as well as the installation of the water supply well which will support exploration drilling operations in May 2009, was completed in October 2008. Coordination of the drilling rig and necessary drilling equipment is also underway. The GeoPetro Frontier Spirit #1 well will be located less than two miles from the Enstar 20” natural gas pipeline which has abundant spare capacity. This well is expected to be drilled in 2010.
California
Lokern Project
We have 100% working interests in 1,280 lease acreage in the Lokern Project, located in the southern San Joaquin basin, near Bakersfield, California. The primary exploration objective is the Miocene Stevens formation. The secondary objectives include the Miocene Reef Ridge and Pliocene Etchegoin sands. The Stevens formation is Upper Miocene age.
The Lokern Project is being developed in part as a result of positive results from the Machii-Ross Ackerman show well drilled in 1979 on acreage currently controlled by us. Based on log analysis, we believe this well had approximately 240 feet of potential net oil pay and an additional 150 feet of potential pay in the Stevens zone. The Machii-Ross Ackerman well was drilled to a depth of 15,078 feet by Machii-Ross Petroleum Company and was plugged and abandoned as a dry hole. We believe, based on our log analysis, that the well may have been a bypassed producer.
We expect that a well will be drilled, either by us or through a farmout arrangement with a third party, to a depth of 15,000 feet in 2010.
Based on our review of title information from public authorities and other publicly available sources, we believe that we have a 100% working interest in the Lokern Project. As is customary in the U.S. oil and gas industry, we will not conduct a thorough title review with respect to our interest in the Lokern Project until we have made a definitive decision to drill in a particular lease area.
Alberta
Swan Hills Project
The Swan Hills Project is located in the Central Alberta Basin, Alberta, Canada. The primary exploration objective is the Swan Hills Formation at approximately 9,000 feet. Secondary objectives will include the shallower Gilwood, Nordegg and Falher formations.
We, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, GeoPetro Canada, have reviewed 3-D seismic data over the prospect and plan to participate in the drilling of a test well. We have a 33% non-working interest in approximately 4,480 gross leased acres (1,493 net acres).
Indonesia
C-G Bengara owns 100% of the underlying rights to explore for and produce oil and natural gas within the contract area designated as the Bengara II Block, which rights have been granted under a production sharing contract dated December 4, 1997 (the “Bengara II PSC”) with Pertamina. Previously we owned 40% of CG Bengara and Continental Energy Corporation (“Continental”) owned the remaining 60% and, through it, the rights to the Bengara II PSC. On September 29, 2006, we executed a definitive agreement to sell 70% of our interest in C-G Bengara to CNPCHK (Indonesia) Limited (“CNPC”). We have retained a 12% stake in C-G Bengara and the Bengara II PSC. Continental has likewise sold its interest and retained an 18% interest in C-G Bengara and the Bengara II PSC.
The Bengara Block is located in the Tarakan Basin, mostly onshore but partially offshore astride the Bulungan River Delta in the Indonesian province of East Kalimantan. It originally covered a single contiguous area of approximately 1.2 million gross acres, of which 300,000 gross acres were relinquished in 2001 and an additional 300,000 gross acres were relinquished in 2007 by C-G Bengara in accordance with the terms of the Bengara II PSC. C-G Bengara has tendered an additional relinquishment such that the remaining acreage within the Bengara II PSC total approximately 240,000 acres, or 970 square kilometers as discussed below.
The Makapan Gas Field
Since 1938, only two wells have been drilled in the Bengara Block prior to 2008, one of which resulted in the discovery of the Makapan Gas Field. The Muara Makapan No. 1 well was drilled in 1988 by P.T. Deminex Indonesia from a swamp barge positioned on one of the Bulungan River Delta mouth channel distributaries. The well was drilled to a total depth of 10,800 feet and tested 19.5 MMcf/d together with 600 bbls of 54 degree API condensate per day from a 33 feet thick sandstone section near 6,000 feet. The well was plugged and abandoned as a natural gas discovery. Several other gas zones indicated on logs were not tested. The well was not produced nor were any confirmation wells drilled due to the lack of a local natural gas market at the time the well was drilled. The Makapan Gas Field gas is a “Wet’ gas with a high LPG fraction which may be commercial to extract at the wellhead for a third revenue source in addition to the gas and condensate. The Makapan Gas Field lies mostly offshore in very shallow water, less than 10 feet, amidst numerous islands of the Bulungan River Delta.
Exploration in the Bengara Block
We believe that the key to successful prospecting in the Bengara Block will be the identification of traps and understanding sand distribution.
Nearly 2,200 line kilometers of 2-D seismic data available within the Bengara Block appear to be adequate for both detailed and reconnaissance interpretation purposes. Some localized areas may benefit from reprocessing. New seismic data is required in places where insufficient data exists and for prospect confirmation in other locations.
Several separate and unique geologic plays within the Bengara Block, as well as a number of prospects and leads, have been identified. Some well-defined prospects present immediate drilling targets. Exploration within the Bengara Block is in its formative stages and it is premature to make meaningful resource or reserve estimates. However, the existing exploration work to date indicates that there may be potential petroleum accumulations in the Bengara Block. Analysis of source rocks indicates a propensity for both oil and natural gas.
Terms of Participation in the Bengara Block
The Bengara II PSC is a “standard terms” PSC employed by BP Migas for all oil and natural gas concessions in Indonesia. Generally, the joint venture participants are entitled to receive, from production proceeds, 100% of expenditures in the block as “cost recovery”. Once these costs are recovered, C-G Bengara is entitled to a production share of approximately 26.7% of oil produced and 62.5% of all natural gas produced. We will be entitled to 12% of C-G Bengara’s share of any such production. Sharing terms for certain categories of oil vary slightly as defined in the Bengara II PSC. The term of the contract is thirty years from December 1997 or a shorter period if C-G Bengara elects to terminate its obligations under the contract or if no commercial hydrocarbons are discovered within the contract area. At the end of six years, unless mutually extended by C-G Bengara and BP Migas, the contract expires if no commercially producible hydrocarbons have been discovered in the contract area. C-G Bengara and BP Migas have mutually extended the early termination provisions until December 3, 2009. C-G Bengara may terminate the contract at any time by relinquishing all of its rights and obligations under the contract area. C-G Bengara is required to relinquish 25% of the contract area within the first three years of the contract, a further 25% of the contract area within six years from the commencement of the contract and an additional area within the first ten years so that the area retained thereafter shall not be in excess of 970 square kilometers, or 20% of the original total contract area, whichever is less. C-G Bengara may designate which areas are to be relinquished subject to approval by BP Migas. C-G Bengara’s obligation to relinquish parts of the original contract area under these provisions does not apply to the surface area of any field in which petroleum has been discovered. To date, 600,000 gross acres have been relinquished by C-G Bengara in accordance with the terms of the Bengara II PSC. In 2007, C-G Bengara tendered an additional relinquishment such that the remaining acreage within the Bengara II PSC shall total approximately 240,000 acres, or 970 square kilometers. The remaining 240,000 acres is considered by C-G Bengara to be the most prospective portion of the original 1.2 million acre block.
C-G Bengara is required to pay to BP Migas specified amounts based on achieving certain cumulative production quantities of crude oil from the contract area when and if commercial production is established. These production bonuses are as follows:
In order to maintain the Bengara II PSC in effect, C-G Bengara was required to complete the following work programs and expenditures during the first ten years of the contract, unless the requirement is extended or waived by BP Migas. C-G Bengara has fulfilled the minimum work and cash expenditure requirements described below.
Upon establishing commercial production, if ever, C-G Bengara and BP Migas shall share ratably in the first 20% of oil and natural gas produced in the contract area within a given year according to the percentages specified below. After the first 20% of production, C-G Bengara is entitled to receive 100% of production until cost recovery has been achieved. Cost recovery generally includes 100% of the operating and drilling costs and depreciation of fixed assets applicable to oil and natural gas operations within the contract area. After C-G Bengara has received oil and natural gas production with a value sufficient to achieve cost recovery in a given year, C-G Bengara and BP Migas shall then share ratably in the production according to the percentages specified below:
Upon the completion of five years after commercial production commences, C-G Bengara is further subject to a domestic market obligation. This obligation requires C-G Bengara to sell and deliver to BP Migas, to meet Indonesia’s domestic crude oil needs, a specified quantity of crude oil at a price which is only 15% of the market price of the oil. However, for new fields, for a period of five years starting on the month of the first delivery of crude oil produced from a new field, the fee per barrel for such crude oil supplied to the Indonesian domestic market shall be the market price, with the condition that the excess over the 15% of market price shall preferably be used to assist financing of continued exploration efforts in the contract area.
Upon the first commercial discovery of oil or natural gas in the contract area, BP Migas has the right to demand that 10% of C-G Bengara’s undivided interest in the total rights and obligations under the Bengara II PSC be offered to itself or an entity owned by Indonesian nationals. The 10% interest shall be offered at a dollar amount equal to 10% of C-G Bengara’s cumulative costs incurred in the contract area.
Current and Planned Activities in the Bengara Block
In accordance with the terms of our agreement dated September 29, 2006 which sold 70% of our interest in C-G Bengara to CNPC, CNPC:
1. Purchased 14,000 and 21,000 shares of C-G Bengara from us and Continental, respectively, at a cost of $1 per share. As a result of the transaction, we and Continental own 6,000 and 9,000 C-G Bengara shares, respectively, retaining a 12% and 18% interest in C-G Bengara, respectively.
2. Paid the sum of $18.7 million (the “Earning Obligation”) into a special joint venture account at a Hong Kong international bank. The funds are under joint signature control of CNPC, ourselves and Continental, and are being expended exclusively to pay for 2006 and 2008 exploration and/or appraisal drilling in the Bengara II PSC area.
3. Agreed to provide development loans to pay 100%, and thereby “carry” our share and Continental’s share of all C-G Bengara’s exploitation, drilling, and development expenditures attributable to the Bengara II PSC, after the Earning Obligation funds are expended and a Plan of Development has been approved by BP Migas, until an additional amount of U.S. $41.3 million over and above the Earning Obligation funds has been expended.
4. Agreed to pay a cash bonus totaling $5,000,000, in the proportions of $2,000,000 to us and $3,000,000 to Continental, respectively, contingent upon and within fourteen business days of the receipt by C-G Bengara of the written approval from governmental authorities approving the development of the first commercial oil or gas discovery within the Bengara II PSC contract area.
During 2007, C-G Bengara drilled a total of four wells on the Bengara II PSC: the Seberaba-1, the Seberaba-3, the Seberaba-4, and the Punga-1. The technical information provided by drilling and testing results to date confirm the presence of an oil accumulation. However the data is not yet adequate to conclusively demonstrate the extent of the oil accumulation or that it has sufficient size of oil reserves to economically justify a full commercial development. Further technical information is required prior to commencing development. C-G Bengara has prepared a preliminary plan of development for the Seberaba discovery based upon drilling and testing results from the Seberaba-1 and 3 wells. In addition to these well test results, C-G Bengara feels additional technical information is needed prior to finalizing the formal plan of development and submitting it for approval to Indonesian oil and gas authorities. Approval of the formal plan of development will automatically invoke the final 20-year production period of the Bengara-II PSC through December 4, 2027.
In December of 2008, C-G Bengara received approval of the Indonesian government for an extension of time under the Bengara-II PSC to appraise, assess, and justify the economic feasibility of commercial development of the apparent oil discovery made on the Seberaba prospects during exploratory drilling in 2007 as noted above. The approval is granted for an additional year to the Bengara-II PSC contract anniversary on 4th December 2009 and may be extended for subsequent years subject to further approval based on an annual review of progress and results of appraisal work.
CG Xploration
In November 2005, we and Continental formed CG Xploration to pursue new venture oil and gas exploration and production projects and obtain new exploration concessions in Indonesia. CG Xploration Inc. is incorporated in Delaware and is owned 50% by us and 50% by Continental. CG Xploration Inc. will actively pursue and may acquire new venture opportunities on behalf of ourselves and Continental. To date, CG Xploration has made no acquisitions.
Australia
On June 20, 2007, the Company agreed to sell and transfer all of its remaining property interests in Australia to an unrelated party for cash consideration and a Petroleum Sales Royalty Payment equal to 25% of the future annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization from the property interests. Specifically, the agreement provides that the Company will be paid consideration for the sale and transfer of its property interests as follows:
1. Initial cash consideration of $175,000 was received on November 19, 2007;
2. a second cash payment of $175,000 upon a successful flow test of petroleum from a well located on the property interests. A successful flow test is defined for purposes of this agreement to be a test of at least 7 million standard cubic feet of natural gas for a continuous and uninterrupted 24 hour period (or an equivalent oil/condensate rate based on a conversion ratio of 6000 cubic feet of gas to a barrel of oil or condensate); and,
3. a Petroleum Sales Royalty Payment equal to 25% of the future annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization from the property interests up to a total amount of $2,200,000.
Natural Gas Reserves
Our estimated total net proved reserves of natural gas and oil as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, and the present values of estimated future net revenues attributable to those reserves as of those dates, are presented in the following tables.
“Proved developed oil and gas reserves” means reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Additional oil and gas expected to be obtained through the application of fluid injection or other improved recovery techniques for supplementing the natural forces and mechanisms of primary recovery should be included as “proved developed reserves” only after testing by a pilot project or after the operation of an installed program has confirmed through production response that increased recovery will be achieved.
“Proved developed nonproducing reserves” means reserves expected to be recovered from zones behind casing in existing wells.
“Proved oil and gas reserves” means estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions.
(i) Reservoirs are considered proved if economic producibility is supported by either actual production or conclusive formation test. The area of a reservoir considered proved includes (A) that portion delineated by drilling and defined by gas-oil and/or oil-water contacts, if any; and (B) the immediately adjoining portions not
yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as economically productive on the basis of available geological and engineering data. In the absence of information on fluid contacts, the lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir.
(ii) Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid injection) are included in the “proved” classification when successful testing by a pilot project, or the operation of an installed program in the reservoir, provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based.
(iii) Estimates of proved reserves do not include the following:
(A) oil that may become available from known reservoirs but is classified separately as “indicated additional reserves”;
(B) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, the recovery of which is subject to reasonable doubt because of uncertainty as to geology, reservoir characteristics, or economic factors;
(C) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, that may occur in undrilled prospects; and
(D) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite and other such sources.
“Proved undeveloped reserves” means reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Reserves on undrilled acreage shall be limited to those drilling units offsetting productive units that are reasonably certain of production when drilled. Proved reserves for other undrilled units can be claimed only where it can be demonstrated with certainty that there is continuity of production from the existing productive formation. Under no circumstances should estimate for proved undeveloped reserves be attributable to any acreage for which an application of fluid injection or other improved recovery technique is contemplated, unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual tests in the area and in the same reservoir.
The 2008, 2007 and 2006 estimates were prepared by MHA Petroleum Consultants, independent reservoir engineers, and are part of their reserve reports on our natural gas and oil properties. MHA Petroleum Consultants’ estimates were based on a review of geologic, economic, ownership and engineering data that we provided. In estimating the reserve quantities that are economically recoverable, MHA Petroleum Consultants used end-of-period natural gas and oil prices. In accordance with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regulations, no price or cost escalation or reduction was considered. All of our proved reserves are attributable to our Madisonville Project in Madison County, Texas.
In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission regulations, estimates of our proved reserves and future net revenues are made using sales prices estimated to be in effect as of the date of such reserve estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties, except to the extent a contract specifically provides for escalation. Estimated quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues are affected by natural gas and oil prices, which have fluctuated significantly in recent years. We filed reports with the Alberta Securities Commission in March 2008 that included total proved reserves inclusive of royalties and net profits interests as of December 31, 2007 totaling 43,517 MMcf. The total net proved reserves, excluding royalties and net profits interests, as of December 31, 2007 was 23,139 MMcf. The difference between the two numbers represents proved reserves attributable to royalties and net profits interests.
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows
For purposes of the following disclosures, estimates were made of quantities of proved reserves and the periods during which they are expected to be produced. Future cash flows were computed by applying year-end prices to estimated annual future production from proved gas reserves. The average year-end prices for gas were as indicated below. Future development drilling and production costs were computed by applying year-end costs to be incurred in producing and further developing the proved reserves. Future income tax expenses were computed by applying, generally, year-end statutory tax rates (adjusted for permanent differences, tax credits and allowances) to the estimated net future pre-tax cash flows. The discount was computed by application of a 10% discount factor. The calculations assume the continuation of existing economic, operating and contractual conditions. However, such arbitrary assumptions have not proven to be the case in the past. Other assumptions of equal validity could give rise to substantially different results.
Pricing Assumptions
SEC regulations require that the gas and oil prices used in the MHA Petroleum Consultants reserve reports included herewith are the period-end prices for natural gas at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These prices are projected without inflation for the life of the wells included in the reserve reports. The pricing assumptions are listed below and represent the weighted average price for natural gas at December 31st delivered at the Houston Ship Channel before any reductions for transportation and processing fees.
Drilling Activities
The following indicates the number of natural gas and oil wells drilled during the periods indicated.
Acreage and Productive Wells
The following table sets forth our ownership interest in undeveloped acreage, developed acreage and productive wells in the areas indicated where we own a working interest as of December 31, 2008. Gross represents the total number of acres or wells in which we own a working interest. Net represents our proportionate working interest resulting from our ownership in gross acres or wells. Productive wells are wells in which we have a working interest and that are capable of producing natural gas or oil. Wells that are completed in more than one producing horizon are counted as one well.
The following table sets forth as of December 31, 2008, the expiration periods of the gross and net undeveloped acreage:
Volumes, Prices and Production Costs
Substantially all of our production is derived from our Madisonville Project in Madison County, Texas. The following table sets forth information with respect to our production volumes, average prices received and average production costs for the periods indicated:
(1) Represents sales price realized net of treatment, gathering and transportation costs.
Business Risks and Other Special Considerations
Refer to “Risk Factors” in this report for a discussion of business risks and other special considerations.
Item 3.