Item 2. Properties
Our principal executive office consists of 2,956 square feet and is located at One Maritime Plaza, Suite 700, San Francisco, CA 94111.
Description of the Properties
Our current oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and development drilling activities are focused in three distinct project areas as follows:
· United States-Texas (onshore South and East Texas regions), Alaska (onshore Cook Inlet area) and California (onshore San Joaquin basin);
· Canada-Alberta (central Alberta basin); and
· Indonesia-onshore East Kalimantan Province;
We do not fully insure against all business risks either because such insurance is not available or because premium costs are prohibitive. This is a common practice in the oil and gas industry. We believe our property is adequately insured in view of the nature of our operations and industry practices in this regard.
Texas
Madisonville Project, Madison County, East Texas
We own and operate the interest in the Madisonville Project in Madison County, Texas. We own working interests in approximately 4,941 gross and net acres of leases in the Rodessa Formation interval, as well as approximately 4,348 gross and net acres of leases as to depths below the Rodessa Formation interval. We also own a license as to 12.5 square miles of 3-D seismic data over the Madisonville Field.
The Madisonville Field, located approximately 100 miles north of Houston, has produced oil and natural gas from four different horizons above the Rodessa Formation for over 50 years. The field was discovered in 1945 with the Boring No. 1 well, which was drilled to the Rodessa Formation. The well blew out at an uncontrolled rate for three days during a test; however, due to hydrogen sulphide, carbon dioxide and nitrogen in the Rodessa Formation natural gas, the gas reserves were never developed. Over 125 wells were drilled in the Madisonville Field to shallower intervals above the Rodessa Formation. In 1994, nearly 50 years after the initial discovery, United Meridian Corporation (“UMC”) drilled the Magness Well as the first follow-up well into the Rodessa Formation to the Boring No. 1 well. The Magness Well had 139 feet of net pay but the natural gas was found to contain 28% impurities.
UMC previously production tested the Magness Well in 1994 through perforations in the lower most ten feet of the indicated Rodessa Formation pay interval. The well tested at a rate of 12 MMcf/d from this limited interval on a 22/64ths inch choke with flowing wellhead pressures increasing from 3,915 to 3,919 pounds per square inch. In 2001, we re-entered and recompleted the Magness Well. A total of 139 feet of interval has been perforated in the Rodessa Formation at approximately 12,000 feet of depth for this well. The well was production tested over a 12-day period in 2001 on various choke sizes with flowing rates ranging up to approximately 20.8 MMcf/d. We own a 100% working interest (75.1333% net revenue interest) in the Magness Well located in the surrounding production unit consisting of 629 gross and net acres. The Magness Well commenced production in May of 2003.
The first development well, the Fannin Well, was drilled and completed in 2004. We own a 100% working interest (69.2483% net revenue interest) in the Fannin Well located in the surrounding production unit consisting of 704 gross (704 net) acres. A total of 146 feet of indicated pay was perforated in the well and a flow test of the well was completed in December 2004 from the Rodessa Formation at rates of up to 25.7 MMcf/d. We commenced production from the Fannin Well in early 2006.
In 2006, we drilled the Wilson and Mitchell wells. We own a 100% working interest (70% net revenue interest) in the Wilson and Mitchell wells. Presently, the Fannin and Magness wells are producing at a combined restricted rate of approximately 13.5 MMcf/d while the Wilson and Mitchell wells are shut-in. The production rate is presently restricted while awaiting a planned expansion of the Madisonville Field gas treatment plant to 68 MMcf/d treating capacity.
The Madisonville Field is a geologic feature encompassing approximately 5,800 acres at the Rodessa limestone at about 11,800 feet of depth. A 3-D seismic program shot in early 1998 confirmed the size of the structure and slightly increased its size over earlier interpretations.
Our working interest covers the Rodessa Formation at approximately 12,000 feet of depth. The Rodessa reserves are being developed through the recompletion of the Magness Well and the drilling of additional proved and probable undeveloped locations. Production began in May 2003 and stabilized at a rate of 18 MMcf/d of raw gas from the Magness Well. The Magness and Fannin wells are currently producing at a combined restricted rate of approximately 13.5 MMcf/d. Current net sales production is approximately 8 MMcf/d. In addition, we own a working interest in certain leases and farmout rights which cover depths below the Rodessa Formation.
The hydrogen sulphide, carbon dioxide and nitrogen combined comprise about 28% of the gas content. As described below, an unaffiliated third party purchases the untreated natural gas from us at the well site point of delivery for a net price equal to the weighted average price per MMBTU that the third party receives for the natural gas delivered to the sales pipeline less certain gathering, treatment and transportation charges. As a result of the charges, we receive a net price that is substantially lower than we would otherwise receive if the gas did not contain the 28% of impurities. In addition, the high concentrations of hydrogen sulphide and carbon dioxide result in higher capital and operating costs for our wells. For example, the hydrogen sulphide and carbon dioxide are corrosive to the wellbores. This means we have to utilize higher grade specification well tubing and casing which is more expensive than what we would utilize absent the impurities. In addition, we continuously treat the wellbores with chemicals designed to inhibit the corrosive effects of the impurities. We also maintain field personnel at or near the wellsites who monitor the wells on a twenty four hour basis and equip the wellsites with extensive safety equipment systems due to the toxic properties of the hydrogen sulphide and carbon dioxide. These factors and others result in higher capital and operating costs for our wells in the Madisonville Project.
The Madisonville Gas Treatment Plant and Gathering Facilities
In order to produce the proven gas reserves from the Rodessa Formation, we developed an onsite plan to treat and remove impurities from the Madisonville Project natural gas in order to meet pipeline-quality specifications. On June 15, 2001, we, through our subsidiary Redwood LP, entered into an agreement, which agreement was subsequently amended and restated, together with certain related agreements (collectively, the “Hanover Agreement”), with Hanover Compression Limited Partnership pursuant to which Hanover committed to fund, construct and operate a dedicated natural gas treatment plant to process our Rodessa Formation natural gas. The Hanover Agreement also provided for the installation by Gateway of field gathering pipelines and an approximately nine-mile sales pipeline with an estimated capacity of approximately 70 MMcf/d to transport the Madisonville Field natural gas to a major pipeline. By April of 2003, the construction and installation of Hanover’s natural gas treatment plant and Gateway’s associated pipeline and gathering facilities were completed. Gas production from the Magness Well commenced in May 2003. We received the first revenues from the sale of natural gas from the Madisonville Project in July 2003. The natural gas plant is currently capable of treating approximately up to 15 MMcf/d of inlet natural gas.
On July 25, 2005, MGP purchased the natural gas treatment plant from Hanover and purchased the gathering pipelines upstream of the gas treatment plant from Gateway. Concurrent with MGP’s purchase of the gas treatment plant and gathering pipelines, we, through our subsidiary Redwood LP, Gateway and MGP terminated the Hanover Agreement and entered into a new agreement, (the “MGP Agreement”), to treat and transport our gas production from the Madisonville Project. As a result of the MGP Agreement, MGP committed to install and make operational additional treating facilities capable of treating 50 MMcf/d, which combined with the capacity of the current in-service treating facilities will represent a total treating capacity of 68 MMcf/d for the Madisonville treatment plant. The MGP Agreement provides that the newly installed gas treatment facilities will be electrically driven. Currently, the existing in-service treatment plant utilizes some of the natural gas produced and delivered from our well(s). The conversion to electricity on the expanded portion of the treatment plant is expected to reduce shrinkage of our natural gas that occurs in the treating process.
Originally, the MGP Agreement required MGP to complete the additional treating facilities by March 1, 2006. However, due to events of force majeure, construction of the additional treating facilities were just completed in October 2007 and early phase operations at the additional treating facilities were recently suspended. In early November 2007, MGP began accepting 20 million cubic feet of gas per day MMcfd at the inlet of the additional treating facilities. Subsequently in December 2007, MGP temporarily suspended the operations of the additional treating facilities in order to make modifications to more effectively deal with the presence of diamondoids in the gas stream produced from the Rodessa Formation. A diamondoid is a rare, naturally occurring compound that can segregate out of the gas stream upon a decrease in temperature and pressure
and as such, could cause operational problems for the nitrogen rejection portion of the additional treating facilities. MGP has obtained a detailed laboratory composition analysis of the diamondoids and is currently finalizing plans for modifications to the operating system. MGP indicates that removal of the diamondoids will require flowing the natural gas stream through a diesel contactor after the gas stream has had the hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide removed. Through this contactor process, the diesel will absorb the diamondoids from the gas stream prior to entry into the nitrogen removal tower. MGP expects to complete installation of the system modifications required in the new plant by the second quarter of 2008. In the meantime, the existing, in service portion of the plant continues to treat approximately 15 million cubic feet per day of inlet gas.
We have proceeded to drill and complete our new development wells notwithstanding MGP’s delay in completing the expansion of the treatment plant and subsequent suspension of operations in December 2007. To the extent that production begins at the new wells before operations resume, as is the case with the Fannin Well which was placed on production in March 2006, production of the wells will be restricted as necessary. The term of the MGP Agreement commenced August 1, 2005 and continues so long as we own any oil and gas leases in the Madisonville Field, provided that it shall terminate on July 31, 2035 unless extended. Under the terms of the MGP Agreement, we have committed all natural gas production from our interest in the Madisonville Project to MGP. MGP purchases the untreated natural gas from us at the well site point of delivery for a net price equal to the weighted average price per MMBTU that MGP receives for the natural gas delivered to the sales pipeline less certain gathering, treatment and transportation charges. The gathering, treatment and transportation price adjustments are described below. All proceeds from MGP’s sale of Rodessa Formation gas are deposited in an escrow account and then disbursed in accordance with the joint direction of MGP and ourselves.
The MGP Agreement provides that certain gathering, treating and transportation fees shall be paid to MGP from the escrow account. The MGP Agreement provides that MGP will receive a gathering and marketing fee of $0.07 and $0.01 per Mcf, respectively, of gas measured and delivered to the natural gas treatment plant. In addition, for the first 18,000 Mcf/d of gas measured and delivered to the inlet flange of the gas treatment plant, MGP will receive a treating fee of $1.50 per Mcf. This treating fee will remain in effect until September 30, 2010. For any gas volumes in excess of 18,000 Mcf/d of gas delivered to the inlet flange of the gas treatment plant, MGP will receive a treating fee of $1.10 per Mcf. Beginning October 1, 2010, this fee of $1.10 per Mcf shall be charged for all gas measured and delivered to the plant. One-quarter (1/4) of the foregoing treating fees are adjusted using the Producer Price Index for Industrial Commodities (“PPI”) and one-quarter (1/4) using the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”). One-half (1/2) of the foregoing gathering and marketing fees are adjusted using the CPI. We have the right, upon giving 60 days notice, to terminate the marketing fee whereupon we shall assume the sole responsibility of marketing the natural gas sold. The PPI and the CPI are price indices published by the U.S. Department of Labor.
For the first 18,000 Mcf/d of gas measured and delivered to the inlet flange of the gas treatment plant, Gateway will receive a transportation fee of $0.10 per Mcf. This fee will remain in effect through July 31, 2008. Beginning August 1, 2008 and terminating on July 31, 2010, the fee shall be reduced to $0.08 per Mcf for the first 18,000 Mcf/d of gas measured and delivered to the inlet flange of the gas treatment plant. For any gas volumes in excess of 18,000 Mcf/d of gas measured and delivered to the inlet flange of the gas treatment plant, Gateway will receive a transportation fee of $0.12 per Mcf measured and delivered from the outlet flange of the plant. This fee will remain in effect through July 31, 2008 and shall be reduced to $0.10 per Mcf thereafter. After July 31, 2010, this transportation fee shall be $0.10 per Mcf for all volumes delivered from the outlet flange of the plant.
The foregoing gathering, treatment and transportation price adjustments are inclusive of all costs and expenses to gather, separate, treat, dehydrate and transport natural gas produced and delivered from our well(s).
Our natural gas deliveries to the Madisonville gas treatment plant may be affected by third party demands for access to the plant. On July 20, 2005 Crimson Exploration Inc. (“Crimson”) filed a complaint with the Texas Railroad Commission (“TRC”) against Gateway and Hanover. The complaint alleged discrimination by Hanover and Gateway, and requested that the TRC issue an order requiring Hanover and Gateway to ratably process, take, transport, or purchase natural gas produced by Crimson into the Madisonville Field gas treatment plant. The complaint did not allege any wrongdoing by Redwood or Redwood LP; however, the complaint referred to the contractual relationship between each of Redwood LP, Hanover, and Gateway which was terminated July 25, 2005 as the basis for its discrimination complaint. Redwood received a subsequent notice dated January 13, 2006 from the TRC informing Redwood that (i) Crimson had filed a request to docket its complaint against MGP for failure to ratably take gas pursuant to Texas regulations and (ii) a pre-hearing conference was held on January 25, 2006 relating to the complaint. Redwood withdrew from the proceeding.
On January 23, 2006, our counsel received a letter from counsel for MGP reaffirming that regardless of the outcome of the proceedings before the TRC, MGP nonetheless recognizes that it has a contractual obligation to treat 68 MMcf/d of natural gas produced by Redwood LP and delivered to the treatment plant. After consultation with legal counsel, we believe that our contract with MGP is fully enforceable.
On August 9, 2006, the Texas Railroad Commission issued an order requiring MGP to ratably process, take, transport or purchase natural gas produced by Crimson into the Madisonville gas treatment plant. The gas treatment plant is currently operating at capacity. There is no guarantee that we will be able to maintain full access to treatment capacity of up to 68 MMcf/d at the Madisonville Plant at all times because, for example, Crimson now has the right to have its natural gas treated at the plant, which may reduce the plant’s ability to treat all of our natural gas, unless the plant’s capacity is further expanded.
To date, Crimson has permitted four wells to be drilled to the Rodessa Formation. The drilling of two of these wells has been completed to a depth of approximately 12,635 feet. Crimson has also drilled an injection well for disposal of waste products resulting from the treatment of their natural gas. Crimson is presently delivering gas to the treatment plant.
We have committed to a three-well drilling program to facilitate the expansion of the gas treatment plant. We have drilled two of the three required wells to the Rodessa formation. The commitment requires us to drill the third well sufficient to test the Smackover Formation (estimated to be encountered at approximately 18,000 feet) on or before September 30, 2008. We estimate the 18,000 foot well will cost $12 million to drill and complete. We have granted MGP a security interest in the Madisonville Field properties to secure the three well commitment. The security interest shall be subordinated to any third party lender in the event we secure future debt against the property. MGP granted us a similar security interest in the gas treatment plant to secure its obligation to expand the treatment plant on a timely basis.
Other Interests in the Madisonville Project
Our working interest in the Madisonville Project is subject to a net profits interest in favor of the third party that sold us our working interests in the Madisonville Project. The net profits interest is 12.5% (proportionately reduced to our interest) of the net operating profits until payout is achieved. After payout, the net profits interest increases to 30% (proportionately reduced to our interest). “Payout”, for purposes of the net profits interest, is defined and achieved at such time as we have recouped from net operating cash flows our total net investment in the Madisonville Project plus a 33% cash on cash return.
South Dry Hollow Project, Lavaca County, South Texas
We own a 15% non-operated working interest in approximately 2,000 gross and 300 net acres of leases in Lavaca County, South Texas. A test well, the Willstar Eichhorn No. 1 well (the “Willstar well”), has commenced drilling and is expected to be drilled to a total depth of 17,000 feet. The primary objective of this well is to test the Rochelle sands in the Lower Wilcox formation. Secondary objectives include the “10,500”, Peck, Dagg, Lampley and Massive sandstone formations in the Wilcox formation. The Willstar well is a vertical well located approximately 800 feet south of the Eichhorn Gas Unit No. 1 well drilled by Newfield Exploration Company (the “Newfield well”) in 2002. The Newfield well was completed in 2002 in the Lampley member of the Wilcox formation at an initial rate of 3.8 MMcfd and has produced approximately 0.9 Bcf of natural gas. The Newstar well also encountered natural gas shows in the Rochelle, “10,500”, Peck, Dagg, and Massive members of the Wilcox formation which were not tested.
Alaska
The Cook Inlet Alaska CBM Project
We entered into an agreement with Pioneer Oil Company, Inc. (“Pioneer”) dated April 20, 2005, wherein we secured the Cook Inlet Option to acquire a 100% working interest, 81% net revenue interest, in approximately 116,806 acres onshore
in Cook Inlet, Alaska. We have since acquired 5,368 additional acres. We believe this acreage to be prospective for both coal bed methane and conventional gas production.
The 122,174 acre lease position consists of two separate target areas that have been selected for exploration. These areas are called the Point MacKenzie and Trading Bay Prospects, respectively.
The Point MacKenzie Prospect is located twelve miles northwest of Anchorage. The Trading Bay Prospect is located 50 miles west of Anchorage across the Cook Inlet. The Cook Inlet basin contains a thick section of terrestrial Tertiary rocks which includes shales, sandstones, and coals. The coals occur in seams which are commonly 20 feet thick and can be as thick as 70 feet. Accessible onshore areas have 200 to 300 feet of coal shallower than 5,000 feet. Gas content for these coals ranges from 80 to 250 standard cubic feet per ton, but testing is restricted to a very small number of bore holes and is almost completely unknown for most of the inlet.
Markets for natural gas in the Cook Inlet area include power generation, heating, fertilizer production and liquefied natural gas exports. An extensive pipeline system supplies these facilities and crosses the Point MacKenzie Prospect and Trading Bay Prospect lease blocks. These pipelines are only partially filled with gas and could accommodate additional production.
In addition to coal bed methane reserve potential, preliminary log analysis indicates the Point MacKenzie Prospect and Trading Bay Prospect lease blocks may also contain conventional accumulations of natural gas reserves in Tertiary sandstones.
The terms of the Cook Inlet Option provide for us to pay total consideration of $20 per acre, or approximately $2.3 million, for the leases. The Cook Inlet Option provides that we will pay the total lease consideration in two installments. We paid the first installment totaling $1,068,063 on August 17, 2005 and we have received assignment of the 100% working interest in the leases. Within three years from the date of receipt of assignment of the 100% working interest in the leases, we have the option to conduct a $2.5 million work program on the leases over a three-year period, and, after completion of the work program and an evaluation of the results, to remit the final additional acreage consideration of $10 per acre for the leases. The Cook Inlet Option provides that if we fail to pay the lease consideration when due, fail to perform the work program or otherwise default under the Cook Inlet Option, we shall forfeit our interest and reassign the leases to Pioneer, and we will have no further liability to Pioneer.
Approximately one to two miles of pipeline will be required to tie in any wells drilled at a currently preferred location at the Point MacKenzie Prospect, and approximately four to five miles of the pipeline will be required to tie in any wells drilled at a currently preferred location at the Trading Bay Prospect. We have not yet prepared an estimate of the cost to tie these wells in.
We are aware of two major pipelines which transverse the acreage blocks, the Enstar 20” line and the UnoCal-Marathon 16” line. We estimate the UnoCal-Marathon 16” line presently has available unused capacity of approximately 40 MMcf/d. In addition, we estimate the Enstar 20” line has available unused capacity of approximately 100 MMcf/d.
California
Lokern Project
We have a working interest in the Lokern Project, located in the southern San Joaquin basin, near Bakersfield, California. The primary exploration objective is the Miocene Stevens formation. The secondary objectives include the Miocene Reef Ridge and Pliocene Etchegoin sands. The Stevens formation is Upper Miocene age.
The Lokern Project is being developed in part as a result of positive results from the Machii-Ross Ackerman show well drilled in 1979 on acreage currently controlled by us. Based on log analysis, we believe that well had approximately 240 feet of potential net oil pay and an additional 150 feet of potential pay in the Stevens zone. The Machii-Ross Ackerman well was drilled to a depth of 15,078 feet by Machii-Ross Petroleum Company and was plugged and abandoned as a dry hole. We believe, based on our log analysis, that the well may have been a bypassed producer.
We expect that a well will be drilled, either by us or through a farmout arrangement with a third party, to a depth of 15,000 feet in 2009.
Based on our review of title information from public authorities and other publicly available sources, we believe that we have a 100% working interest in the Lokern Project. As is customary in the U.S. oil and gas industry, we will not conduct a thorough title review with respect to our interest in the Lokern Project until we have made a definitive decision to drill in a particular lease area.
Alberta
Swan Hills Project
The Swan Hills Project is located in the Central Alberta Basin, Alberta, Canada. The primary exploration objective is the Swan Hills Formation at approximately 9,000 feet. Secondary objectives will include the shallower Gilwood, Nordegg and Falher formations.
We, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, GeoPetro Canada, have reviewed 3-D seismic data over the prospect and plan to participate in the drilling of a test well. We have a 33% working interest in approximately 4,480 leased acres.
Indonesia
C-G Bengara owns 100% of the underlying rights to explore for and produce oil and natural gas within the contract area designated as the Bengara II Block, which rights have been granted under a production sharing contract dated December 4, 1997 (the “Bengara II PSC”) with Pertamina. Previously we owned 40% of CG Bengara and Continental Energy Corporation (“Continental”) owned the remaining 60% and, through it, the rights to the Bengara II PSC. On September 29, 2006, we executed a definitive agreement to sell 70% of our interest in C-G Bengara to CNPCHK (Indonesia) Limited (“CNPC”). We have retained a 12% stake in C-G Bengara and the Bengara II PSC. Continental has likewise sold its interest and retained an 18% interest in C-G Bengara and the Bengara II PSC.
The Bengara Block is located in the Tarakan Basin, mostly onshore but partially offshore astride the Bulungan River Delta in the Indonesian province of East Kalimantan. It originally covered a single contiguous area of approximately 1.2 million gross acres, of which 300,000 gross acres were relinquished in 2001 and an additional 300,000 gross acres were relinquished in 2007 by C-G Bengara in accordance with the terms of the Bengara II PSC. C-G Bengara has tendered an additional relinquishment such that the remaining acreage within the Bengara II PSC total approximately 240,000 acres, or 970 square kilometers. The remaining 240,000 acres is considered by C-G Bengara to be the most prospective portion of the original 1.2 million acre block and is pending approval from BP Migas.
The Makapan Gas Field
Since 1938, only two wells have been drilled in the Bengara Block prior to 2007, one of which resulted in the discovery of the Makapan Gas Field. The Muara Makapan No. 1 well was drilled in 1988 by P.T. Deminex Indonesia from a swamp barge positioned on one of the Bulungan River Delta mouth channel distributaries. The well was drilled to a total depth of 10,800 feet and tested 19.5 million cubic feet of gas per day together with 600 bbls of 54 degree API condensate per day from a 33 feet thick sandstone section near 6,000 feet. The well was plugged and abandoned as a natural gas discovery. Several other gas zones indicated on logs were not tested. The well was not produced nor were any confirmation wells drilled due to the lack of a local natural gas market at the time the well was drilled. The Makapan Gas Field gas is a “Wet’ gas with a high LPG fraction which may be commercial to extract at the wellhead for a third revenue source in addition to the gas and condensate. The Makapan Gas Field lies mostly offshore in very shallow water, less than 10 feet, amidst numerous islands of the Bulungan River Delta.
Exploration in the Bengara Block
We believe that the key to successful prospecting in the Bengara Block will be the identification of traps and understanding sand distribution.
Nearly 2,200 line kilometers of 2-D seismic data available within the Bengara Block appear to be adequate for both detailed and reconnaissance interpretation purposes. Some localized areas may benefit from reprocessing. New seismic data is required in places where insufficient data exists and for prospect confirmation in other locations.
Several separate and unique geologic plays within the Bengara Block as well as a number of prospects and leads have been identified. Some well-defined prospects present immediate drilling targets. Exploration within the Bengara Block is in its formative stages and it is premature to make meaningful resource or reserve estimates. However, the existing exploration work to date indicates that there may be potential petroleum accumulations in the Bengara Block. Analysis of source rocks indicates a propensity for both oil and natural gas.
Terms of Participation in the Bengara Block
The Bengara II PSC is a “standard terms” PSC employed by BP Migas for all oil and natural gas concessions in Indonesia. Generally, the joint venture participants are entitled to receive, from production proceeds, 100% of expenditures in the block as “cost recovery”. Once these costs are recovered, C-G Bengara is entitled to a production share of approximately 26.7% of oil produced and 62.5% of all natural gas produced. We will be entitled to 12% of C-G Bengara’s share of any such production. Sharing terms for certain categories of oil vary slightly as defined in the Bengara II PSC. The term of the contract is thirty years from December 1997 or a shorter period if C-G Bengara elects to terminate its obligations under the contract or if no commercial hydrocarbons are discovered within the contract area. At the end of six years, unless mutually extended by C-G Bengara and BP Migas, the contract expires if no commercially producible hydrocarbons have been discovered in the contract area. C-G Bengara and BP Migas have mutually extended the early termination provisions until December 3, 2008. C-G Bengara may terminate the contract at any time by relinquishing all of its rights and obligations under the contract area. C-G Bengara is required to relinquish 25% of the contract area within the first three years of the contract, a further 25% of the contract area within six years from the commencement of the contract and an additional area within the first ten years so that the area retained thereafter shall not be in excess of 970 square kilometers, or 20% of the original total contract area, whichever is less. C-G Bengara may designate which areas are to be relinquished subject to approval by BP Migas. C-G Bengara’s obligation to relinquish parts of the original contract area under these provisions does not apply to the surface area of any field in which petroleum has been discovered. To date, 600,000 gross acres have been relinquished by C-G Bengara in accordance with the terms of the Bengara II PSC. In 2007, C-G Bengara tendered an additional relinquishment such that the remaining acreage within the Bengara II PSC shall total approximately 240,000 acres, or 970 square kilometers. The remaining 240,000 acres is considered by C-G Bengara to be the most prospective portion of the original 1.2 million acre block and is pending approval from BP Migas.
C-G Bengara is required to pay to BP Migas specified amounts based on achieving certain cumulative production quantities of crude oil from the contract area when and if commercial production is established. These production bonuses are as follows:
In order to maintain the Bengara II PSC in effect, C-G Bengara is required to complete the following work programs and expenditures during the first ten years of the contract, unless the requirement is extended or waived by BP Migas:
C-G Bengara has fulfilled the minimum work and cash expenditure requirements described above. Upon establishing commercial production, if ever, C-G Bengara and BP Migas shall share ratably in the first 20% of oil and natural gas produced in the contract area within a given year according to the percentages specified below. After the first 20% of production, C-G Bengara is entitled to receive 100% of production until cost recovery has been achieved. Cost recovery generally includes 100% of the operating and drilling costs and depreciation of fixed assets applicable to oil and natural gas operations within the contract area. After C-G Bengara has received oil and natural gas production with a value sufficient to achieve cost recovery in a given year, C-G Bengara and BP Migas shall then share ratably in the production according to the percentages specified below:
Upon the completion of five years after commercial production commences, C-G Bengara is further subject to a domestic market obligation. This obligation requires C-G Bengara to sell and deliver to BP Migas, to meet Indonesia’s domestic crude oil needs, a specified quantity of crude oil at a price which is only 15% of the market price of the oil. However, for new fields, for a period of five years starting on the month of the first delivery of crude oil produced from a new field, the fee per barrel for such crude oil supplied to the Indonesian domestic market shall be the market price, with the condition that the excess over the 15% of market price shall preferably be used to assist financing of continued exploration efforts in the contract area.
Upon the first commercial discovery of oil or natural gas in the contract area, BP Migas has the right to demand that 10% of C-G Bengara’s undivided interest in the total rights and obligations under the Bengara II PSC be offered to itself or an entity owned by Indonesian nationals. The 10% interest shall be offered at a dollar amount equal to 10% of C-G Bengara’s cumulative costs incurred in the contract area.
Current and Planned Activities in the Bengara Block
In accordance with the terms of our agreement dated September 29, 2006 which sold 70% of our interest in C-G Bengara to CNPC, CNPC:
1. Purchased 14,000 and 21,000 shares of C-G Bengara from us and Continental, respectively, at a cost of $1 per share. As a result of the transaction, we and Continental own 6,000 and 9,000 C-G Bengara shares, respectively, retaining a 12% and 18% interest in C-G Bengara, respectively.
2. Paid the sum of $18.7 million (the “Earning Obligation”) into a special joint venture account at a Hong Kong international bank. The funds are under joint signature control of CNPC, ourselves and Continental, and are being expended exclusively to pay for 2006 and 2007 exploration and/or appraisal drilling in the Bengara II PSC area.
3. Agreed to provide development loans to pay 100%, and thereby “carry” our share and Continental’s share of all C-G Bengara’s exploitation, drilling, and development expenditures attributable to the Bengara II PSC, after the Earning Obligation funds are expended and a Plan of Development has been approved by BP Migas, until an additional amount of U.S. $41.3 million over and above the Earning Obligation funds has been expended.
4. Agreed to pay a cash bonus totaling $5,000,000, in the proportions of $2,000,000 to us and $3,000,000 to Continental, respectively, contingent upon and within fourteen business days of the receipt by C-G Bengara of the written approval from governmental authorities approving the development of the first commercial oil or gas discovery within the Bengara II PSC contract area.
During 2007, C-G Bengara drilled a total of four wells on the Bengara II PSC. The results are as follows:
A. The Seberaba-1 was originally planned to reach a total depth of 4,000 meters (13,120 feet). Drilling of the Seberaba-1 terminated at a depth of 2,914 meters (9,558 feet) in the third of three sidetracks made from the original wellbore. Testing activity of the Seberaba-1 has been suspended. Approximately 150 barrels of crude oil has been recovered by swabbing. Flow test and pressure build up tests to date have proved inconclusive due to apparent formation damage. Any future re-entry is expected to be conducted with a different drilling mud and testing fluid program to avoid damage to the target reservoir intervals.
B. Drilling of the Seberaba-3 has been completed to a total depth of 2,594 meters (8,508 feet). An open hole drill stem test successfully flowed oil and minor gas at surface from one zone. The open hole test confirms lateral continuity of the Seberaba reservoir with at least one of the three zones from which oil was recovered during testing of the Seberaba-1 discovery well. The Seberaba-3 has been logged and casing has been set.
C. Drilling activity on the Seberaba-4 has been terminated. Seberaba-4 failed to encounter an expected reservoir sand anticipated at 2,450 meters (8,036 feet) probably because the wellbore penetrated a normal fault and the expected reservoir interval was faulted out. The Seberaba-4 wellbore has been suspended and preserved for possible re-entry.
D. Drilling of the Punga-1 has been completed at a total depth of 2,500 meters (8,200 feet). The well has been logged and casing has been set. A testing program may be conducted in the future by CG-B2 to evaluate zones with oil and gas shows.
The technical information provided by drilling and testing results to date confirm the presence of an oil accumulation. However the data is not yet adequate to conclusively demonstrate the extent of the oil accumulation or that it has sufficient size of oil reserves to economically justify a full commercial development. Further technical information is required prior to commencing development. C-G Bengara has prepared a preliminary plan of development for the Seberaba discovery based upon drilling and testing results from the Seberaba-1 and 3 wells. Further testing of the Punga-1 well and Seberaba-3 well is expected to be conducted in 2008. In addition to these well test results, C-G Bengara feels additional technical information is needed prior to finalizing the formal plan of development and submitting it for approval to Indonesian oil and gas authorities. Approval of the formal plan of development will automatically invoke the final 20-year production period of the Bengara-II PSC through December 3, 2027. C-G Bengara has submitted the preliminary plan to the Indonesian authorities together with a request for additional time of three years to implement the plan and thereby obtain the additional data needed to further appraise and prove up the Seberaba discovery prior to completing and submitting the formal plan of development. Approval is expected but not assured.
CG Xploration
In November 2005, we and Continental formed CG Xploration to pursue new venture oil and gas exploration and production projects and obtain new exploration concessions in Indonesia. CG Xploration Inc. is incorporated in Delaware and is owned 50% by us and 50% by Continental. CG Xploration Inc. will actively pursue and may acquire new venture opportunities on behalf of ourselves and Continental. To date, CG Xploration has made no acquisitions.
Natural Gas Reserves
Our estimated total net proved reserves of natural gas and oil as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, and the present values of estimated future net revenues attributable to those reserves as of those dates, are presented in the following tables.
“Proved developed oil and gas reserves” means reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Additional oil and gas expected to be obtained through the application of fluid injection or other improved recovery techniques for supplementing the natural forces and mechanisms of primary recovery should be included as “proved developed reserves” only after testing by a pilot project or after the operation of an installed program has confirmed through production response that increased recovery will be achieved.
“Proved developed nonproducing reserves” means reserves expected to be recovered from zones behind casing in existing wells.
“Proved oil and gas reserves” means estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions.
(i) Reservoirs are considered proved if economic producibility is supported by either actual production or conclusive formation test. The area of a reservoir considered proved includes (A) that portion delineated by drilling and defined by gas-oil and/or oil-water contacts, if any; and (B) the immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as economically productive on the basis of available geological and engineering data. In the absence of information on fluid contacts, the lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir.
(ii) Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid injection) are included in the “proved” classification when successful testing by a pilot project, or the operation of an installed program in the reservoir, provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based.
(iii) Estimates of proved reserves do not include the following:
(A) oil that may become available from known reservoirs but is classified separately as “indicated additional reserves”;
(B) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, the recovery of which is subject to reasonable doubt because of uncertainty as to geology, reservoir characteristics, or economic factors;
(C) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, that may occur in undrilled prospects; and
(D) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite and other such sources.
“Proved undeveloped reserves” means reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Reserves on undrilled acreage shall be limited to those drilling units offsetting productive units that are reasonably certain of production when drilled. Proved reserves for other undrilled units can be claimed only where it can be demonstrated with certainty that there is continuity of production from the existing productive formation. Under no circumstances should estimate for proved undeveloped reserves be attributable to any acreage for which an application of fluid injection or other improved recovery technique is contemplated, unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual tests in the area and in the same reservoir.
The 2007 and 2006 estimates were prepared by MHA Petroleum Consultants, independent reservoir engineers, and are part of their reserve reports on our natural gas and oil properties. The 2005 estimates were prepared by Sproule Associates Inc., independent reservoir engineers, and are part of their reserve reports on our natural gas and oil properties. MHA Petroleum Consultants’ and Sproule Associates Inc.’s estimates were based on a review of geologic, economic, ownership and engineering data that we provided. In estimating the reserve quantities that are economically recoverable, MHA Petroleum Consultants and Sproule Associates Inc. used end-of-period natural gas and oil prices. In accordance with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regulations, no price or cost escalation or reduction was considered. All of our proved reserves are attributable to our Madisonville Project in Madison County, Texas.
In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission regulations, estimates of our proved reserves and future net revenues are made using sales prices estimated to be in effect as of the date of such reserve estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties, except to the extent a contract specifically provides for escalation. Estimated quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues therefrom are affected by natural gas and oil prices, which have fluctuated significantly in recent years. We filed reports with the U.S. Department of Energy in June 2007 and the Alberta Securities Commission in March 2007 that included total proved reserves inclusive of royalties and net profits interests as of December 31, 2006 totaling 43,517 MMcf. The total net proved reserves, excluding royalties and net profits interests, as of December 31, 2006 was 24,600 MMcf. The difference between the two numbers represents proved reserves attributable to royalties and net profits interests.
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows
For purposes of the following disclosures, estimates were made of quantities of proved reserves and the periods during which they are expected to be produced. Future cash flows were computed by applying year-end prices to estimated annual future production from proved gas reserves. The average year-end prices for gas were as indicated below. Future development drilling and production costs were computed by applying year-end costs to be incurred in producing and further developing the proved reserves. Future income tax expenses were computed by applying, generally, year-end statutory tax rates (adjusted for permanent differences, tax credits and allowances) to the estimated net future pre-tax cash flows. The discount was computed by application of a 10% discount factor. The calculations assume the continuation of existing economic, operating and contractual conditions. However, such arbitrary assumptions have not proven to be the case in the past. Other assumptions of equal validity could give rise to substantially different results.
Pricing Assumptions
SEC regulations require that the gas and oil prices used in the MHA Petroleum Consultants and Sproule Associates Inc. reserve reports included herewith are the period-end prices for natural gas at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These prices are projected without inflation for the life of the wells included in the reserve reports. The pricing assumptions are listed below:
Drilling Activities
The following indicates the number of natural gas and oil wells drilled during the periods indicated.
Acreage and Productive Wells
The following table sets forth our ownership interest in undeveloped acreage, developed acreage and productive wells in the areas indicated where we own a working interest as of December 31, 2007. Gross represents the total number of acres or wells in which we own a working interest. Net represents our proportionate working interest resulting from our ownership in gross acres or wells. Productive wells are wells in which we have a working interest and that are capable of producing natural gas or oil. Wells that are completed in more than one producing horizon are counted as one well.
The following table sets forth as of December 31, 2007, the expiration periods of the gross and net undeveloped acreage:
Volumes, Prices and Production Costs
Substantially all of our production is derived from our Madisonville Project in Madison County, Texas. The following table sets forth information with respect to our production volumes, average prices received and average production costs for the periods indicated:
(1) Represents sales price realized net of treatment costs.
Business Risks and Other Special Considerations
Refer to “Risk Factors” in this report for a discussion of business risks and other special considerations.
Item 3.