Item 2. Properties
Our principal executive office consists of 2,956 square feet and is located at One Maritime Plaza, Suite 700, San Francisco, CA 94111 until April 30, 2010. The new principal executive office contains 4,201 square feet and is located at 150 California Street, Suite 600, San Francisco, CA 94111 effective May 1, 2010 thru April 30, 2017.
Description of the Properties
Our current oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and development drilling activities are focused in four distinct project areas as follows:
· United States-Texas (East Texas and onshore South Texas regions), Alaska (onshore Cook Inlet area) and California (onshore San Joaquin basin);
· Canada-Alberta (central Alberta basin);
· Indonesia-onshore and offshore East Kalimantan Province; and
· Australia-onshore in two permit areas located in the South Perth basin.
We do not fully insure against all business risks either because such insurance is not available or because premium costs are prohibitive. This is a common practice in the oil and gas industry. We believe our property is adequately insured in view of the nature of our operations and industry practices in this regard.
Texas
Madisonville Project, Madison County, East Texas
We own and operate the interest in the Madisonville Project in Madison County, Texas. We own working interests in approximately 4,557 gross and net acres of leases in the Rodessa Formation interval, as well as approximately 4,447 gross and net acres of leases as to depths below the Rodessa Formation interval. We also own a license as to 12.5 square miles of 3-D seismic data over the Madisonville Field.
The Madisonville Field, located approximately 100 miles north of Houston, has produced oil and natural gas from four different horizons above the Rodessa Formation for over 50 years. The field was discovered in 1945 with the Boring No. 1 well, which was drilled to the Rodessa Formation. The well blew out at an uncontrolled rate for three days during a test; however, due to hydrogen sulphide, carbon dioxide and nitrogen in the Rodessa Formation natural gas, the gas reserves were never developed. Over 125 wells were drilled in the Madisonville Field to shallower intervals above the Rodessa Formation. In 1994, nearly 50 years after the initial discovery, United Meridian Corporation (“UMC”) drilled the Magness Well as the first follow-up well into the Rodessa Formation to the Boring No. 1 well. The Magness Well had 139 feet of net pay but the natural gas was found to contain 28% impurities.
UMC previously production tested the Magness Well in 1994 through perforations in the lower most ten feet of the indicated Rodessa Formation pay interval. The well tested at a rate of 12 MMcf/d from this limited interval on a 22/64ths inch choke with flowing wellhead pressures increasing from 3,915 to 3,919 pounds per square inch. In 2001, we re-entered and recompleted the Magness Well. A total of 139 feet of interval has been perforated in the Rodessa Formation at approximately 12,000 feet of depth for this well. The well was production tested over a 12-day period in 2001 on various choke sizes with flowing rates ranging up to approximately 20.8 MMcf/d. We own a 100% working interest (75.1333% net revenue interest) in the Magness Well located in the surrounding production unit consisting of 684 gross and 629 net acres. The Magness Well commenced production in May of 2003.
The first development well, the Fannin Well, was drilled and completed in 2004. We own a 100% working interest (69.9162% net revenue interest) in the Fannin Well located in the surrounding production unit consisting of 704 gross and net acres. A total of 146 feet of indicated pay was perforated in the well and a flow test of the well was completed in December 2004 from the Rodessa Formation at rates of up to 25.7 MMcf/d. We commenced production from the Fannin Well in early 2006.
The Madisonville Field is a geologic feature encompassing approximately 5,800 acres at the Rodessa limestone at about 11,800 feet of depth. A 3-D seismic program shot in early 1998 confirmed the size of the structure and slightly increased its size over earlier interpretations.
Our working interest covers the Rodessa Formation at approximately 12,000 feet of depth. The Rodessa reserves are being developed through the recompletion of the Magness Well and the drilling of additional proved undeveloped locations. Production began in May 2003 and stabilized at a rate of 18 MMcf/d of raw gas from the Magness Well. In 2006, we drilled the Wilson and Mitchell wells. We own a 100% working interest (70% net revenue interest) in the Wilson and Mitchell wells. The Magness, Fannin and Mitchell wells are currently producing at a combined restricted rate of approximately 6.5 MMcf/d while the Wilson well is shut-in. Current net sales production is approximately 3.0 MMcf/d. In addition, we own a working interest in certain leases and farmout rights which cover depths below the Rodessa Formation.
The hydrogen sulphide, carbon dioxide and nitrogen combined comprise about 28% of the gas content. The untreated natural gas is delivered to the Madisonville Midstream Gas Treatment Plant where all the natural gas impurities are removed before delivery to the sales pipeline. As a result of the costs to treat the natural gas, we receive a net price that is substantially lower than we would otherwise receive if the gas did not contain the 28% of impurities. In addition, the high concentrations of hydrogen sulphide and carbon dioxide result in higher capital and operating costs for our wells. For example, the hydrogen sulphide and carbon dioxide are corrosive to the wellbores. This means we have to utilize higher grade specification well tubing and casing which is more expensive than what we would utilize absent the impurities. In addition, we continuously treat the wellbores with chemicals designed to inhibit the corrosive effects of the impurities. We also maintain field personnel at or near the wellsites who monitor the wells on a twenty four hour basis and equip the wellsites with extensive safety equipment systems due to the toxic properties of the hydrogen sulphide and carbon dioxide. These factors and others result in higher capital and operating costs for our wells in the Madisonville Project.
The Madisonville Midstream Gas Treatment Plant and Gathering Facilities
In order to produce the proved gas reserves from the Rodessa Formation, we developed an onsite plan to treat and remove impurities from the Madisonville Project natural gas in order to meet pipeline-quality specifications. On June 15, 2001, we, through our subsidiary Redwood LP, entered into an agreement, which agreement was subsequently amended and restated, together with certain related agreements (collectively, the “Hanover Agreement”), with Hanover Compression Limited Partnership pursuant to which Hanover committed to fund, construct and operate a dedicated natural gas treatment plant to process our Rodessa Formation natural gas. The Hanover Agreement also provided for the installation by Gateway of field gathering pipelines and an approximately nine-mile sales pipeline with an estimated capacity of approximately 70 MMcf/d to transport the Madisonville Field natural gas to a major pipeline. By April of 2003, the construction and installation of Hanover’s natural gas treatment plant and Gateway’s associated pipeline and gathering facilities were completed. Gas production from the Magness Well commenced in May 2003. We received the first revenues from the sale of natural gas from the Madisonville Project in July 2003.
On July 25, 2005, MGP purchased the natural gas treatment plant from Hanover and purchased the gathering pipelines upstream of the gas treatment plant from Gateway. Concurrent with MGP’s purchase of the gas treatment plant and gathering pipelines, we, through our subsidiary Redwood LP, Gateway and MGP terminated the Hanover Agreement and entered into a new agreement, (the “MGP Agreement”), to treat and transport our gas production from the Madisonville Project. As a result of the MGP Agreement, MGP committed to install and make operational additional treating facilities capable of treating 50 MMcf/d, which combined with the capacity of the current in-service treating facilities would represent a total treating capacity of 68 MMcf/d for the Madisonville treatment plant. The MGP Agreement provided that the newly installed gas treatment facilities would be electrically driven. Currently, the existing in-service treatment plant utilizes some of the natural gas produced and delivered from our well(s). The conversion to electricity on the expanded portion of the treatment plant is expected to reduce shrinkage of our natural gas that occurs in the treating process.
Originally, the MGP Agreement required MGP to complete the additional treating facilities by March 1, 2006. However, due to events of force majeure, construction of the additional treating facilities was delayed. In early November 2007, MGP began testing the additional treatment facilities by accepting 20 MMcf/d at the inlet. Subsequently in December 2007, MGP suspended the operations of the additional treatment facilities in order to make modifications to more effectively deal with the presence of diamondoids in the gas stream produced from the Rodessa Formation. A diamondoid is a rare, naturally occurring compound that can segregate out of the gas stream upon a decrease in temperature and pressure and as such, could cause operational problems for the nitrogen rejection portion of the additional treating facilities. MGP obtained a detailed laboratory composition analysis of the diamondoids which indicated that removal of the diamondoids will require flowing the natural gas stream through a diesel contactor after the gas stream has had the hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide removed. MGP also conducted a field pilot test which successfully confirmed the laboratory results. Through this contactor process, the diesel will absorb the diamondoids from the gas stream prior to entry into the nitrogen removal tower.
During 2008, MGP analyzed various options for removing the diamondoids; however, they did not complete the necessary plant system modifications. On December 31, 2008, we purchased the gas treatment plant and related gathering pipelines from MGP in exchange for the assumption of secured bank debt, payment of certain outstanding payables of MGP and shares of GeoPetro’s common stock. The secured bank debt we incurred as part of the Plant acquisition totaled $6.7 million and is in the form of a 3 year loan with the lender, Bank of Oklahoma, National Association (“BOK”). The loan agreement provides for minimum quarterly principal payments of $150,000 and supplemental principal amounts payable upon GeoPetro achieving certain cash flow thresholds. The Company has pledged its Madisonville natural gas reserves as well as the Plant assets as collateral for the loan. There is a loan fee of $60,000 payable annually for any yearly period during which any principal remains
outstanding under the loan. There is no prepayment penalty. GeoPetro and its wholly owned subsidiary Redwood Energy Production, LP (“Redwood”) are guarantors of the loan.
The effective date of the acquisition was December 31, 2008 and the current owner of the Plant is GeoPetro’s wholly-owned, indirect subsidiary, Madisonville Midstream LLC (“MM”). We expect to complete installation of the system modifications required in the new plant in 2010. In the meantime, the existing, in service portion of the plant continues to operate with a capacity of approximately 18 million cubic feet per day of inlet gas.
Our natural gas deliveries to our gas treatment plant may be affected by third party demands for access to the plant. On August 9, 2006, the Texas Railroad Commission issued an order requiring the Plant to ratably process, take, transport or purchase natural gas produced by Crimson into the Madisonville gas treatment plant. There is no guarantee that we will be able to maintain full access to treatment capacity of up to 68 MMcf/d at the Madisonville Plant at all times because, for example, Crimson now has the right to have its natural gas treated at the plant, which may reduce the plant’s ability to treat all of our natural gas, unless the plant’s capacity is further expanded.
To date, Crimson has drilled and completed two wells to a depth of approximately 12,635 feet. Crimson has also drilled an injection well for disposal of waste products resulting from the treatment of their natural gas. Crimson has not delivered any natural gas to the treatment plant since August 2009.
Other Interests in the Madisonville Project
Our working interest in the Madisonville Project is subject to a net profits interest in favor of the third party that sold us our working interests in the Madisonville Project. The net profits interest is 12.5% (proportionately reduced to our interest) of the net operating profits until payout is achieved. After payout, the net profits interest increases to 30% (proportionately reduced to our interest). “Payout”, for purposes of the net profits interest, is defined and achieved at such time as we have recouped from net operating cash flows our total net investment in the Madisonville Project plus a 33% cash on cash return.
Alaska
The Cook Inlet Alaska Project
Over the past five years, we acquired a 100% working interest in approximately 123,000 acres onshore in the Cook Inlet region of Alaska (the “Alaskan Leases”). The leasehold position consists of two separate target areas, the Point MacKenzie Prospect and the Trading Bay Prospect, which have been selected for oil and gas exploration. The Point MacKenzie Prospect is located twelve miles northwest of Anchorage. The Trading Bay Prospect is located fifty miles west of Anchorage across the Cook Inlet. GeoPetro believes that the acreage may contain significant accumulations of conventional oil and gas and coal bed methane.
On February 26, 2010, we sold our entire working interest in the Alaskan Leases to Linc Energy (Alaska) Inc. (“Linc”). Linc is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Linc Energy Ltd., an Australian-based company publicly traded on the Australian Stock Exchange.
Linc will acquire all of the Alaskan Leases for the following consideration:
a. A cash payment of $1.0 million will be deposited by Linc in an escrow account, to be released to us upon approval of the assignments of the Alaskan Leases to Linc.
b. In addition, we will receive a $4.0 million payment from the first 75% of 8/8ths of the proceeds from any oil and gas production from the Alaskan Leases.
c. After we have received the $4.0 million payment specified in paragraph (b) above, we will thereafter receive an overriding royalty interest of 10% of 8/8ths in and to the Alaskan Leases issued by the State of Alaska and the Alaska Mental Health Trust (which comprise over 99% of the Alaskan Leases), and an overriding royalty interest of 7% of 8/8ths in and to the Alaskan Leases issued by Cook Inlet Region, Inc. on conventional oil and gas production and coal bed methane production.
d. Linc has agreed to pay all of the costs of maintaining the Alaskan Leases at least through the end of the primary terms thereof.
e. Following the lessors’ approval of the assignments of the Alaskan Leases into Linc, Linc will diligently commence and prosecute the drilling of the Frontier Spirit #1 exploration well to evaluate a conventional oil and gas prospect identified and developed by us.
The initial reserve target in the Cook Inlet Project was identified by us after we reprocessed certain 2-D seismic data acquired from AMOCO on the Point MacKenzie Block. The prospect is estimated to cover approximately eighteen sections (11,500 acres) under structural closure, and will target conventional gas reserves in the Middle and Lower Tyonek Formations reaching to a depth of approximately 8,000 feet. We have constructed a drill pad and access road at the Frontier Spirit #1 location which will be located less than two miles from the Enstar 20” natural gas pipeline. The Frontier Spirit #1 well is expected to be drilled by Linc in 2010.
Preliminary log analysis and seismic data indicate the Point MacKenzie and Trading Bay Blocks may contain conventional accumulations of natural gas reserves in Tertiary sandstones in addition to the prospect identified at the Frontier Spirit #1 location. Structural anticlines and/or domes occur on the lease blocks and may contain large undrilled gas reservoirs. Sandstone units also pinch-out toward the margins of the basin and may have formed stratigraphic traps on the lease blocks. In the past, oil and gas exploration has focused on oil production and anticlinal gas traps, but stratigraphic accumulations have been largely unexplored in the Cook Inlet.
Additional potential on the Alaskan Leases may be realized from the development of coal bed methane reserves. The coals occur in seams which are commonly 20 feet thick and can be as thick as 70 feet. Accessible onshore areas have 200 to 300 feet of aggregate coal thickness shallower than 5,000 feet. Estimated gas content for these coals ranges from 80 to 250 standard cubic feet per ton. Testing for coal bed methane has been restricted to a very small number of bore holes and is almost completely unknown for most of the inlet.
California
Lokern Project
We have 100% working interests in 1,280 lease acreage in the Lokern Project, located in the southern San Joaquin basin, near Bakersfield, California. The primary exploration objective is the Miocene Stevens formation. The secondary objectives include the Miocene Reef Ridge and Pliocene Etchegoin sands. The Stevens formation is Upper Miocene age.
The Lokern Project is being developed in part as a result of positive results from the Machii-Ross Ackerman show well drilled in 1979 on acreage currently controlled by us. Based on log analysis, we believe this well had approximately 240 feet of potential net oil pay and an additional 150 feet of potential pay in the Stevens zone. The Machii-Ross Ackerman well was drilled to a depth of 15,078 feet by Machii-Ross Petroleum Company and was plugged and abandoned as a dry hole. We believe, based on our log analysis, that the well may have been a bypassed producer.
We expect that a well will be drilled, either by us or through a farmout arrangement with a third party, to a depth of 18,000 feet in 2011.
Based on our review of title information from public authorities and other publicly available sources, we believe that we have a 100% working interest in the Lokern Project. As is customary in the U.S. oil and gas industry, we will not conduct a thorough title review with respect to our interest in the Lokern Project until we have made a definitive decision to drill in a particular lease area.
Alberta
Swan Hills Project
The Swan Hills Project is located in the Central Alberta Basin, Alberta, Canada. The primary exploration objective is the Swan Hills Formation at approximately 9,000 feet. Secondary objectives will include the shallower Gilwood, Nordegg and Falher formations.
We, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, GeoPetro Canada, have reviewed 3-D seismic data over the prospect and plan to participate in the drilling of a test well. We have a 33% non-working interest in approximately 4,480 gross leased acres (1,493 net acres).
Indonesia
C-G Bengara owns 100% of the underlying rights to explore for and produce oil and natural gas within the contract area designated as the Bengara II Block, which rights have been granted under a production sharing contract dated December 4, 1997 (the “Bengara II PSC”) with Pertamina. Previously we owned 40% of CG Bengara and Continental Energy Corporation (“Continental”) owned the remaining 60% and, through it, the rights to the Bengara II PSC. On September 29, 2006, we executed a definitive agreement to sell 70% of our interest in C-G Bengara to CNPCHK (Indonesia) Limited (“CNPC”). We have retained a 12% stake in C-G Bengara and the Bengara II PSC. Continental has likewise sold its interest and retained an 18% interest in C-G Bengara and the Bengara II PSC.
The Bengara Block is located in the Tarakan Basin, mostly onshore but partially offshore astride the Bulungan River Delta in the Indonesian province of East Kalimantan. It originally covered a single contiguous area of approximately 1.2 million gross acres, of which 300,000 gross acres were relinquished in 2001 and an additional 300,000 gross acres were relinquished in 2007 by C-G Bengara in accordance with the terms of the Bengara II PSC. C-G Bengara has tendered an additional relinquishment such that the remaining acreage within the Bengara II PSC total approximately 240,000 acres, or 970 square kilometers as discussed below.
The Makapan Gas Field
Since 1938, only two wells have been drilled in the Bengara Block prior to 2007, one of which resulted in the discovery of the Makapan Gas Field. The Muara Makapan No. 1 well was drilled in 1988 by P.T. Deminex Indonesia from a swamp barge positioned on one of the Bulungan River Delta mouth channel distributaries. The well was drilled to a total depth of 10,800 feet and tested 19.5 MMcf/d together with 600 bbls of 54 degree API condensate per day from a 33 feet thick sandstone section near 6,000 feet. The well was plugged and abandoned as a natural gas discovery. Several other gas zones indicated on logs were not tested. The well was not produced nor were any confirmation wells drilled due to the lack of a local natural gas market at the time the well was drilled. The Makapan Gas Field gas is a “Wet’ gas with a high LPG fraction which may be commercial to extract at the wellhead for a third revenue source in addition to the gas and condensate. The Makapan Gas Field lies mostly offshore in very shallow water, less than 10 feet, amidst numerous islands of the Bulungan River Delta.
Exploration in the Bengara Block
We believe that the key to successful prospecting in the Bengara Block will be the identification of traps and understanding sand distribution.
Nearly 2,200 line kilometers of 2-D seismic data available within the Bengara Block appear to be adequate for both detailed and reconnaissance interpretation purposes. Some localized areas may benefit from reprocessing. New seismic data is required in places where insufficient data exists and for prospect confirmation in other locations.
Several separate and unique geologic plays within the Bengara Block, as well as a number of prospects and leads, have been identified. Some well-defined prospects present immediate drilling targets. Exploration within the Bengara Block is in its formative stages and it is premature to make meaningful resource or reserve estimates. However, the existing exploration work to date indicates that there may be potential petroleum accumulations in the Bengara Block. Analysis of source rocks indicates a propensity for both oil and natural gas.
Terms of Participation in the Bengara Block
The Bengara II PSC is a “standard terms” PSC employed by BP Migas for all oil and natural gas concessions in Indonesia. Generally, the joint venture participants are entitled to receive, from production proceeds, 100% of expenditures in the block as “cost recovery”. Once these costs are recovered, C-G Bengara is entitled to a production share of approximately 26.7% of oil produced and 62.5% of all natural gas produced. We will be entitled to 12% of C-G Bengara’s share of any such production. Sharing terms for certain categories of oil vary slightly as defined in the Bengara II PSC. The term of the contract is thirty years from December 1997 or a shorter period if C-G Bengara elects to terminate its obligations under the contract or if no commercial hydrocarbons are discovered within the contract area. At the end of six years, unless mutually extended by C-G Bengara and BP Migas, the contract expires if no commercially producible hydrocarbons have been discovered in the contract area. C-G Bengara and BP Migas have mutually extended the early termination provisions until December 3, 2011. C-G Bengara may terminate the contract at any time by relinquishing all of its rights and obligations under the contract area. C-G Bengara is required to relinquish 25% of the contract area within the first three years of the contract, a further 25% of the contract area within six years from the commencement of the contract and an additional area within the first ten years so that the area retained thereafter shall not be in excess of 970 square kilometers, or 20% of the original total contract area, whichever is less. C-G
Bengara may designate which areas are to be relinquished subject to approval by BP Migas. C-G Bengara’s obligation to relinquish parts of the original contract area under these provisions does not apply to the surface area of any field in which petroleum has been discovered. To date, acreage has been relinquished by C-G Bengara in accordance with the terms of the Bengara II PSC such that the remaining acreage within the Bengara II PSC totals approximately 240,000 acres, or 970 square kilometers. The remaining 240,000 acres is considered by C-G Bengara to be the most prospective portion of the original 1.2 million acre block.
C-G Bengara is required to pay to BP Migas specified amounts based on achieving certain cumulative production quantities of crude oil from the contract area when and if commercial production is established. These production bonuses are as follows:
In order to maintain the Bengara II PSC in effect, C-G Bengara was required to complete the work programs and expenditures totaling $25 million during the first ten years of the contract. C-G Bengara has fulfilled such minimum work and cash expenditure requirements.
Upon establishing commercial production, if ever, C-G Bengara and BP Migas shall share ratably in the first 20% of oil and natural gas produced in the contract area within a given year according to the percentages specified below. After the first 20% of production, C-G Bengara is entitled to receive 100% of production until cost recovery has been achieved. Cost recovery generally includes 100% of the operating and drilling costs and depreciation of fixed assets applicable to oil and natural gas operations within the contract area. After C-G Bengara has received oil and natural gas production with a value sufficient to achieve cost recovery in a given year, C-G Bengara and BP Migas shall then share ratably in the production according to the percentages specified below:
Upon the completion of five years after commercial production commences, C-G Bengara is further subject to a domestic market obligation. This obligation requires C-G Bengara to sell and deliver to BP Migas, to meet Indonesia’s domestic crude oil needs, a specified quantity of crude oil at a price which is only 15% of the market price of the oil. However, for new fields, for a period of five years starting on the month of the first delivery of crude oil produced from a new field, the fee per barrel for such crude oil supplied to the Indonesian domestic market shall be the market price, with the condition that the excess over the 15% of market price shall preferably be used to assist financing of continued exploration efforts in the contract area.
Upon the first commercial discovery of oil or natural gas in the contract area, BP Migas has the right to demand that 10% of C-G Bengara’s undivided interest in the total rights and obligations under the Bengara II PSC be offered to itself or an entity owned by Indonesian nationals. The 10% interest shall be offered at a dollar amount equal to 10% of C-G Bengara’s cumulative costs incurred in the contract area.
Current and Planned Activities in the Bengara Block
In accordance with the terms of our agreement dated September 29, 2006 pursuant to which we sold 70% of our interest in C-G Bengara to CNPC, CNPC:
1. Purchased 14,000 and 21,000 shares of C-G Bengara from us and Continental, respectively, at a cost of $1 per share. As a result of the transaction, we and Continental own 6,000 and 9,000 C-G Bengara shares, respectively, retaining a 12% and 18% interest in C-G Bengara, respectively.
2. Paid the sum of $18.7 million (the “Earning Obligation”) into a special joint venture account at a Hong Kong international bank. The funds were expended exclusively to pay for exploration and/or appraisal drilling in the Bengara II PSC area.
3. Agreed to provide development loans to pay 100%, and thereby “carry” our share and Continental’s share of all C-G Bengara’s exploitation, drilling, and development expenditures attributable to the Bengara II PSC, after the Earning Obligation funds are expended and a Plan of Development has been approved by BP Migas, until an additional amount of U.S. $41.3 million over and above the Earning Obligation funds has been expended.
4. Agreed to pay a cash bonus totaling $5,000,000, in the proportions of $2,000,000 to us and $3,000,000 to Continental, respectively, contingent upon and within fourteen business days of the receipt by C-G Bengara of the written approval from governmental authorities approving the development of the first commercial oil or gas discovery within the Bengara II PSC contract area.
During 2007, C-G Bengara drilled a total of four wells on the Bengara II PSC: the Seberaba-1, the Seberaba-3, the Seberaba-4, and the Punga-1. The technical information provided by drilling and testing results to date confirm the presence of an oil accumulation. However the data is not yet adequate to conclusively demonstrate the extent of the oil accumulation or that it has sufficient size of oil reserves to economically justify a full commercial development. Further technical information is required prior to commencing development. C-G Bengara has prepared a preliminary plan of development for the Seberaba discovery based upon drilling and testing results from the Seberaba-1 and 3 wells. In addition to these well test results, C-G Bengara believes additional technical information is needed prior to finalizing the formal plan of development and submitting it for approval to Indonesian oil and gas authorities. Approval of the formal plan of development will automatically invoke the final 20-year production period of the Bengara-II PSC through December 4, 2027.
During 2009 C-G Bengara awarded a contract to a seismic acquisition contractor to conduct a seismic acquisition program in the Bengara-II Block. Work is presently underway to acquire a total of 120 square kilometers of 3D seismic and 844 line kilometers of 2D seismic at an estimated acquisition cost of $ 28.5 million. The primary objective of the 3D seismic program is to further define and delineate the Seberaba oil discovery and the Makapan gas/condensate discovery. CGB2 is eyeing a joint development of Makapan gas with Seberaba oil to achieve economies of scale and provide a gas source for fuel, pressure maintenance, and artificial lift of oil.
A large part of the 2D seismic program is also intended to provide additional definition of other exploration prospects in the Bengara-II Block to firm up new exploration drilling targets for a proposed 2010/2011 drilling program. A large portion of the seismic acquisition program shall be conducted in the logistically difficult and higher cost “transition zone” between a shallow marine offshore and onshore setting. The eastern portion of the Block is located mostly onshore but partially offshore in the shallow waters of the Sulawesi Sea and the Bulungan River delta.
C-G Bengara has received approval of the Indonesian government for an extension of time under the Bengara-II PSC to appraise, assess, and justify the economic feasibility of commercial development of the apparent oil discovery made on the Seberaba prospects during exploratory drilling in 2007 as noted above. The extension is valid until December 3, 2011 and may be extended for subsequent years subject to further approval based on an annual review of progress and results of appraisal work.
CG Xploration
In November 2005, we and Continental formed CG Xploration to pursue new venture oil and gas exploration and production projects and obtain new exploration concessions in Indonesia. CG Xploration Inc. is incorporated in Delaware and is owned 50% by us and 50% by Continental. CG Xploration Inc. may acquire new venture opportunities on behalf of ourselves and Continental. To date, CG Xploration has not completed any acquisitions.
Australia
On June 20, 2007, the Company agreed to sell and transfer all of its remaining property interests in Australia to an unrelated party for cash consideration and a Petroleum Sales Royalty Payment equal to 25% of the future annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization from the property interests. Specifically, the agreement provides that the Company will be paid consideration for the sale and transfer of its property interests as follows:
1. Initial cash consideration of $175,000 was received on November 19, 2007;
2. a second cash payment of $175,000 upon a successful flow test of petroleum from a well located on the property interests. A successful flow test is defined for purposes of this agreement to be a test of at least 7 million standard cubic feet of natural gas for a continuous and uninterrupted 24 hour period (or an equivalent oil/condensate rate based on a conversion ratio of 6000 cubic feet of gas to a barrel of oil or condensate); and,
3. a Petroleum Sales Royalty Payment equal to 25% of the future annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization from the property interests up to a total amount of $2,200,000.
Proved Reserves Disclosures
Recent SEC Rule-Making Activity In December 2008, the SEC announced that it had approved revisions designed to modernize the oil and gas company reserves reporting requirements. The most significant amendments to the requirements that impact us included the following:
· Commodity Prices - Economic producible reserves and discounted cash flows are now based on a 12-month average net natural gas price unless contractual arrangements designate the price to be used.
· Disclosure of Unproved Reserves - Probable and possible reserves may be disclosed separately on a voluntary basis. We are not presently disclosing probable and possible reserves, but may do so in the future.
· Proved Undeveloped Reserves Guidelines - Reserves may be classified as proved undeveloped if there is a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered and they are scheduled to be drilled within the next five years, unless the specific circumstances justify a longer time.
· Reserves Estimation Using New Technologies - Reserves may be estimated through the use of reliable technology in addition to flow tests and production history.
· Reserves Personnel and Estimation Process - Additional disclosure is required regarding the qualifications of the chief technical person(s) who oversee the reserves estimation process. We are also required to provide a general discussion of our internal controls used to assure the objectivity of the reserves estimate.
· Disclosure by Geographic Area - Reserves in foreign countries or continents must be presented separately if they represent more than 15% of our total oil and gas proved reserves. We presently do not report reserves in foreign countries or continents, but may do so in the future as a result of our exploration activities.
· Non-Traditional Resources - The definition of oil and gas producing activities has expanded and focuses on the marketable product rather than the method of extraction.
We adopted the rules effective December 31, 2009.
Effect of Adoption - Application of the new reserve rules resulted in the use of a lower natural gas price at December 31, 2009 than would have resulted under the previous rules. The new pricing methodology rules resulted in a lower net present value (PV-10) of economically producible reserves. The prices under the new rules were $3.11 per Mcf for natural gas adjusted for energy content, quality and basis differentials. Under the new rules, this resulted in a year-end ceiling test write-down of $19.8 million associated with the US full cost pool. Had we used the price prevailing on December 31, 2009 of $5.45 per Mcf for natural gas, there would have been no year-end ceiling test write-down. Under full cost accounting, a ceiling test is performed to ensure that unamortized capitalized costs in each cost center (country) do not exceed their fair value. Impairment is recognized when the carrying value is greater than the discounted future cash flows. In the event of impairment, the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value of the long-lived asset is charged to earnings. The present value of estimated future net revenues is computed by applying current oil and gas prices to estimated future production of proved oil and gas
reserves, less estimated future expenditures to be incurred in developing and producing the proved reserves assuming the continuation of existing economic conditions.
Use of new 12-month average pricing rules at December 31, 2009 also resulted in a decrease in economically producible proved reserves of approximately 1.03 Bcf. Use of the old year-end prices rules would have resulted in a decrease in proved reserves of approximately 0.53 Bcf at December 31, 2009. Therefore, the total impact of the new price methodology rules resulted in negative reserves revisions of 0.5 Bcf.
The use of the new pricing methodology had an insignificant impact on our depletion expense in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Internal Controls Over Reserves Estimates Our policies regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves estimates requires reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance and prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering principles.
The Company engaged the independent petroleum engineering firm, MHA Petroleum Consultants, LLC (“MHA”) to prepare the Company’s reserve estimates at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. MHA is a Denver based group of approximately 30 professional engineers and geologists providing a wide range of technical services to the petroleum industry. Within MHA, the technical persons primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the MHA reserves report incorporated herein are Mr. John Arsenault and Mr. Dennis Holler. Mr. Arsenault has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at MHA since 2006, and has over 23 years of practical experience in petroleum engineering, with over 10 years experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. Mr. Holler has been practicing consulting petroleum geology at MHA since 2001. Mr. Holler has over 35 years of practical experience in petroleum geology, with over 25 years experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. Both technical principals meet or exceed the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; both are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geosciences evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines. MHA evaluated properties representing 100% of our reserves, valued at the total estimated future net cash flows before income taxes, discounted at 10% (“PV-10”), for all periods presented below. Senior members of our management review the final reserve report to ensure the accuracy and completeness of all inputs into the report. MHA’s report to management, which summarizes the scope of work performed and its conclusions, has been included in this report as Exhibit 99.1
Proved Undeveloped Reserves (PUDs) - As of December 31, 2009, our PUDs totaled 8.4 Bcf of natural gas.
· PUD Locations - 100% of our PUDs at year-end 2009 were associated with a location in the Madisonville Field.
· Changes in PUDS - Changes in PUDs that occurred during the year were due to two reasons. The first reason is that one Probable location from the year end 2008 report was moved to a PUD in the year end 2009 report. This change was based on the overall Proved volumetrics for the field (which did not change year over year), and a decline in the volumes assigned for existing Proved Developed locations because of reservoir geometry. The second reason is that the hydraulic fracture treatment for the existing Wilson well in conjunction with the necessary plant upgrade to handle the increased volume of gas have been moved into the PUD category because of the relatively large expense required to achieve the predicted rates.
· Development Costs - No costs were incurred relating to the development of PUDs in 2009 and 2008.
· Estimated future development costs relating to the development of PUDs are projected to be approximately $6.6 million in 2010 and 2011.
· Drilling Plans - Our PUD development is scheduled in 2010 and 2011. Initial production from the PUD reserves is expected to begin in 2010.
For more information see the following:
· Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Comparison of Results of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 for a discussion of the financial impact of the SEC revisions;
· Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Reserves for further discussion of our reserves estimation process;
· Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Supplementary Oil and Gas Information (Unaudited) for additional information regarding estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves, including estimates of proved, proved developed, and proved undeveloped reserves, the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, and the changes in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows.
Other Reserves Information Since January 1, 2009, no crude oil or natural gas reserves information has been filed with, or included in any report to, any federal authority or agency other than the SEC and the Alberta Securities Commission. We filed reports with the Alberta Securities Commission in March 2009 that included total proved reserves using forecasted (escalated) natural gas prices inclusive of royalties and net profits interests as of December 31, 2008 totaling 46,168 MMcf. The total net proved reserves using period-end (un-escalated) natural gas prices, excluding royalties and net profits interests, as of December 31, 2008 was 20,470 MMcf. The difference between the two numbers represents proved reserves attributable to royalties and net profits interests as well as the different natural gas price scenarios.
Our estimated total net proved reserves of natural gas and oil as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the present values of estimated future net revenues attributable to those reserves as of those dates, are presented in the following tables.
“Proved developed oil and gas reserves” means reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Additional oil and gas expected to be obtained through the application of fluid injection or other improved recovery techniques for supplementing the natural forces and mechanisms of primary recovery should be included as “proved developed reserves” only after testing by a pilot project or after the operation of an installed program has confirmed through production response that increased recovery will be achieved.
“Proved developed nonproducing reserves” means reserves expected to be recovered from zones behind casing in existing wells.
“Proved oil and gas reserves” - Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible-from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations-prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time.
(a) The area of the reservoir considered as proved includes:
i. The area identified by drilling and limited by fluid contacts, if any; and
ii. Adjacent undrilled portions of the reservoir that can, with reasonable certainty, be judged to be continuous with it and to contain economically producible oil or gas on the basis of available geoscience and engineering data.
(b) In the absence of data on fluid contacts, proved quantities in a reservoir are limited by the lowest known hydrocarbons (LKH) as seen in a well penetration unless geoscience, engineering, or performance data and reliable technology establishes a lower contact with reasonable certainty.
(c) Where direct observation from well penetrations has defined a highest known oil (HKO) elevation and the potential exists for an associated gas cap, proved oil reserves may be assigned in the structurally higher portions of the reservoir only if geoscience, engineering, or performance data and reliable technology establish the higher contact with reasonable certainty.
(d) Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (including, but not limited to, fluid injection) are included in the proved classification when:
i. Successful testing by a pilot project in an area of the reservoir with properties no more favorable than in the reservoir as a whole, the operation of an installed program in the reservoir or an analogous reservoir, or other evidence using reliable technology establishes the reasonable certainty of the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based; and
ii. The project has been approved for development by all necessary parties and entities, including governmental entities.
(e) Existing economic conditions include prices and costs at which economic producibility from a reservoir is to be determined. The price shall be the average price during the 12-month period prior to the ending date of the period covered by the report, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions.
The 2009 and 2008 estimates were prepared by MHA Petroleum Consultants, independent reservoir engineers, and are part of their reserve reports on our natural gas and oil properties. MHA Petroleum Consultants’ estimates were based on a review of geologic, economic, ownership and engineering data that we provided. In estimating the reserve quantities that are economically recoverable, MHA Petroleum Consultants used end-of-period natural gas prices for the 2008 estimates. Prices used for the year ended December 31, 2009 estimates were the simple arithmetic average of the natural gas price in effect on the first day of each month in 2009. In accordance with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regulations, no price or cost escalation or reduction was considered. All of our proved reserves are attributable to our Madisonville Project in Madison County, Texas.
In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission regulations, estimates of our proved reserves and future net revenues are made using sales prices which are held constant throughout the life of the properties, except to the extent a contract specifically provides for escalation. Estimated quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues are affected by natural gas and oil prices, which have fluctuated significantly in recent years.
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows
For purposes of the following disclosures, estimates were made of quantities of proved reserves and the periods during which they are expected to be produced. Future cash flows for the 2008 estimates were computed by applying year-end prices to estimated annual future production from proved gas reserves. Future cash flows for the 2009 estimates were computed by applying the simple arithmetic average of the natural gas price in effect on the first day of each month in 2009 to estimated annual future production from proved gas reserves. The price assumptions used for natural gas are indicated below. Future development drilling and production costs were computed by applying year-end costs to be incurred in producing and further developing the proved reserves. Future income tax expenses were computed by applying, generally, year-end statutory tax rates (adjusted for permanent differences, tax credits and allowances) to the estimated net future pre-tax cash flows. The discount was computed by application of a 10% discount factor. The calculations assume the continuation of existing economic, operating and contractual conditions. However, such arbitrary assumptions have not proven to be the case in the past. Other assumptions of equal validity could give rise to substantially different results.
The standardized measure values shown in the aforementioned table are not intended to represent the current market value of the estimated proved oil and gas reserves owned by us.
Pricing Assumptions
SEC regulations require that the gas prices used in the MHA Petroleum Consultants reserve reports included herewith are the period-end prices for natural gas at December 31, 2008. SEC regulations require that the gas price used for the December 31, 2009 MHA Petroleum Consultants reserve report is the simple arithmetic average of the natural gas price in effect on the first day of each month in 2009. These prices are projected without inflation for the life of the wells included in the reserve reports. The pricing assumptions are listed below and represent the weighted average price for natural gas at December 31st delivered at the Houston Ship Channel before any reductions for transportation and processing fees.
Drilling Activities
The following indicates the number of natural gas wells drilled during the periods indicated.
Acreage and Productive Wells
The following table sets forth our ownership interest in undeveloped acreage, developed acreage and productive wells in the areas indicated where we own a working interest as of December 31, 2009. Gross represents the total number of acres or wells in which we own a working interest. Net represents our proportionate working interest resulting from our ownership in gross acres or wells. Productive wells are wells in which we have a working interest and that are capable of producing natural gas or oil. Wells that are completed in more than one producing horizon are counted as one well.
The following table sets forth as of December 31, 2009, the expiration periods of the gross and net undeveloped acreage:
Volumes, Prices and Production Costs
Substantially all of our production is derived from our Madisonville Project in Madison County, Texas. The following table sets forth information with respect to our production volumes, average prices received and average production costs for the periods indicated:
(1) Production volumes for 2009 represent actual plant throughput. Sales volumes net to our interests in the Madisonville gas wells for the year ended December 31, 2009 amounted to 807 MMcf, or 2.2MMcf/d.
(2) Represents sales price realized net of treatment, gathering and transportation costs in 2008 since we sold the gas at the wellhead to an unaffiliated purchaser. Commencing January 1, 2009, we moved the point of sale of the gas to the outlet of the gas treatment plant since we purchased the gas treatment plant and related gathering systems effective December 31, 2008. Accordingly, the sales price reflected for the year ended December 31, 2009 represents the sales price realized before deducting treatment, gathering and transportation costs, and is based up on plant throughput.
(3) Lease operating expense per Mcf is based on lease operating expense and sales volumes net to our interests in the Madisonville gas wells.
(4) Plant operating expense per Mcf is based on total plant operating expense and actual plant throughput.
Business Risks and Other Special Considerations
Refer to “Risk Factors” in this report for a discussion of business risks and other special considerations.
Item 3.