Item 2. Properties
Our principal executive office, consisting of 4,201 square feet, is located at 150 California Street, Suite 600, San Francisco, CA 94111.
Description of the Properties
Our current oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and development drilling activities are focused in four distinct project areas as follows:
· United States-Texas (East Texas), Alaska (onshore Cook Inlet basin) and California (onshore San Joaquin basin); and
· Canada-Alberta (central Alberta basin);
· Indonesia-onshore and offshore East Kalimantan Province; and
· Australia-onshore in two permit areas located in the South Perth basin.
Texas
Madisonville Project, Madison County, East Texas
We own and operate the interest in the Madisonville Project in Madison County, Texas. We own working interests in approximately 3,590 gross and net acres of leases in the Rodessa Formation interval. We also own a license as to 12.5 square miles of 3-D seismic data over the Madisonville Field.
The Madisonville Field, located approximately 100 miles north of Houston, has produced oil and natural gas from four different horizons above the Rodessa Formation for over 50 years. The field was discovered in 1945 with the Boring No. 1 well, which was drilled to the Rodessa Formation. The well blew out at an uncontrolled rate for three days during a test; however, due to hydrogen sulphide, carbon dioxide and nitrogen in the Rodessa Formation natural gas, the gas reserves were never developed. Over 125 wells were drilled in the Madisonville Field to shallower intervals above the Rodessa Formation. In 1994, nearly 50 years after the initial discovery, United Meridian Corporation (“UMC”) drilled the Magness Well as the first follow-up well into the Rodessa Formation to the Boring No. 1 well. The Magness Well had 139 feet of net pay but the natural gas was found to contain 28% impurities.
UMC previously production tested the Magness Well in 1994 through perforations in the lower most ten feet of the indicated Rodessa Formation pay interval. The well tested at a rate of 12 MMcf/d from this limited interval on a 22/64ths inch choke with flowing wellhead pressures increasing from 3,915 to 3,919 pounds per square inch. In 2001, we re-entered and recompleted the Magness Well. A total of 139 feet of interval has been perforated in the Rodessa Formation at approximately 12,000 feet of depth for this well. The well was production tested over a 12-day period in 2001 on various choke sizes with flowing rates ranging up to approximately 20.8 MMcf/d. We own a 100% working interest (75.1333% net revenue interest) in the Magness Well located in the surrounding production unit consisting of 684 gross and 629 net acres. The Magness Well commenced production in May of 2003 and stabilized at a rate of 18 MMcf/d of raw gas.
The first development well, the Fannin Well, was drilled and completed in 2004. We own a 100% working interest (69.8978% net revenue interest) in the Fannin Well located in the surrounding production unit consisting of 704 gross and net acres. A total of 146 feet of indicated pay was perforated in the well and a flow test of the well was completed in December 2004 from the Rodessa Formation at rates of up to 25.7 MMcf/d. We commenced production from the Fannin Well in early 2006. Also in 2006, we drilled the Mitchell and Wilson wells. We own a 100% working interest (70% net revenue interest) in the Mitchell and Wilson wells.
The Madisonville Field is a geologic feature encompassing approximately 5,800 acres at the Rodessa limestone at about 11,800 feet of depth. A 3-D seismic program shot in early 1998 confirmed the size of the structure and slightly increased its size over earlier interpretations. Our working interest covers the Rodessa Formation at approximately 12,000 feet of depth. In addition, we own a working interest in certain leases which cover depths below the Rodessa Formation. Current production is approximately 5.0 MMcf/d.
Hydrogen sulfide, carbon dioxide and nitrogen combined comprise about 28% of the gas content. The untreated natural gas is delivered to the Madisonville Gas Treatment Plant where all the natural gas impurities are removed prior to delivery to the sales pipeline. The high concentrations of hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide result in higher capital and operating costs for our wells. For example, the hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide are corrosive to the wellbores. This means we have to utilize higher grade specification well tubing and casing which is more expensive than what we would utilize absent the impurities. In addition, we continuously treat the wellbores with chemicals designed to inhibit the corrosive effects of the impurities. We also maintain field personnel at or near the wellsites who monitor the wells on a twenty four hour basis and equip the wellsites with extensive safety equipment systems due to the toxic properties of the hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide.
The Madisonville Gas Treatment Plant and Gathering Facilities
In order to produce the proved gas reserves from the Rodessa Formation, we developed an onsite plan to treat and remove impurities from the Madisonville Project natural gas in order to meet pipeline-quality specifications. In June 2001, Redwood LP contracted with Hanover Compression Limited Partnership (“Hanover”) to fund, construct and operate a dedicated natural gas treatment plant with an initial designed capacity of 18 MMcf/d. In conjunction with the plant construction, Gateway installed field gathering lines and an approximately nine mile sales pipeline, with an estimated capacity of 70 MMcf/d, to transport the Madisonville gas to a major pipeline. These facilities were completed in April 2003 and production from the Magness Well commenced in May 2003.
In July 2005, Madisonville Gas Processing LP (“MGP”) purchased the natural gas treatment plant from Hanover and purchased the gathering pipelines upstream of the gas treatment plant from Gateway. On December 31, 2008, we purchased the gas treatment plant and related gathering pipelines from MGP in exchange for the assumption of secured bank debt, payment of certain outstanding payables of MGP and shares of GeoPetro’s common stock. The effective date of the acquisition was December 31, 2008 and the current owner of the Plant is GeoPetro’s wholly-owned, indirect subsidiary, Madisonville Midstream. The secured bank debt we incurred as part of the Plant acquisition totaled $6.7 million and was in the form of a 3 year loan with the lender, Bank of Oklahoma (“BOK”). The loan agreement provided for minimum quarterly principal payments of $150,000 and supplemental principal amounts payable upon GeoPetro achieving certain cash flow thresholds. The Company pledged its Madisonville natural gas reserves as well as the Plant assets as collateral for the loan. GeoPetro and its wholly owned subsidiary Redwood LP were guarantors of the loan. This loan was paid in full on September 13, 2011.
The existing Plant continues to operate with a processing capacity of approximately 18 MMcf/d of inlet gas. Plans are currently under development to expand the Plant’s processing capacity to 30 MMcf/d.
Our natural gas deliveries to our gas treatment plant may be affected by third party demands for access to the plant. On August 9, 2006, the Railroad Commission of Texas issued an order requiring the Plant to ratably process, take, transport or purchase natural gas produced by Crimson into the Madisonville gas treatment plant. There is no guarantee that we will be able to maintain full access to the treatment capacity of the Madisonville Plant at all times because, for example, Crimson now has the right to have its natural gas treated at the plant, which may reduce the plant’s ability to treat all of our natural gas, unless the plant’s capacity is further expanded.
To date, Crimson has drilled and completed two wells to a depth of approximately 12,635 feet. Crimson has also drilled an injection well for disposal of waste products resulting from the treatment of their natural gas. Crimson has not delivered any natural gas to the treatment plant since August 2009.
Other Interests in the Madisonville Project
Our working interest in the Madisonville Project is subject to a net profits interest in favor of the third party that sold us our working interests in the Madisonville Project. The net profits interest is 12.5% (proportionately reduced to our interest) of the net operating profits until payout is achieved. After payout, the net profits interest increases to 30% (proportionately reduced to our interest). “Payout”, for purposes of the net profits interest, is defined and achieved at such time as we have recouped from net operating cash flows our total net investment in the Madisonville Project plus a 33% cash on cash return.
Alaska
The Cook Inlet Alaska Project
On February 26, 2010, we sold our entire 100% working interest in approximately 122,000 acres onshore in the Cook Inlet region of Alaska (“Alaskan Leases”). The position consisted of two separate target areas, the Point MacKenzie Prospect and the Trading Bay Prospect. The Point MacKenzie Prospect is located twelve miles northwest of Anchorage. The Trading Bay Prospect is located fifty miles west of Anchorage, across the Cook Inlet. The interests were purchased by Linc Energy (Alaska) Inc. (“Linc”). Linc is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Linc Energy Ltd., an Australian-based company publicly traded on the Australian Stock Exchange.
In exchange for our 100% working interest in our Alaskan Leases we received the following consideration:
· a cash payment of $1.0 million;
· a $4.0 million payment from the first 75% of the 8/8ths proceeds from any oil and gas production from the underlying leases;
· subsequent to our receipt of the $4.0 million payment specified above, we will thereafter receive an over-riding royalty interest of 10% of 8/8ths in and to the leases issued by the State of Alaska and the Alaska Mental Health Trust on conventional oil and gas production and coal bed methane production; and
· Linc has agreed to pay all of the costs of maintaining the Alaskan Leases through the end of the primary lease terms.
On May 2, 2011 Linc, the operator of the Alaskan Leases in the Cook Inlet region reported that drilling and testing on the LEA #1 well located in the Point MacKenzie Block of the Cook Inlet basin had been completed. Three sandstone targets were tested separately. Despite the fact that gas shows were encountered while drilling, the sandstone targets were too tight to produce commercial quantities of gas. Although the LEA#1 has not proved to be commercial, the operator intends to use information acquired while drilling the well to continue exploration in the Cook Inlet basin.
Preliminary log analysis and seismic data indicate the Point MacKenzie and Trading Bay Blocks may contain conventional accumulations of natural gas reserves in Tertiary sandstones. Structural anticlines and/or domes occur on the lease blocks and may contain large undrilled gas reservoirs. Sandstone units also pinch-out toward the margins of the basin and may have formed stratigraphic traps on the lease blocks. In the past, oil and gas exploration has focused on oil production and anticlinal gas traps, but stratigraphic accumulations have been largely unexplored in the Cook Inlet.
Additional potential on the Alaskan Leases may be realized from the development of coal bed methane reserves. The coals occur in seams which are commonly 20 feet thick and can be as thick as 70 feet. Accessible onshore areas have 200 to 300 feet of aggregate coal thickness shallower than 5,000 feet. Estimated gas content for these coals ranges from 80 to 250 standard cubic feet per ton. Testing for coal bed methane has been restricted to a very small number of bore holes and is almost completely unknown for most of the inlet.
California
Lokern Project
We have 100% working interests in 1,280 leased acres in the Lokern Project, located in the southern San Joaquin basin, near Bakersfield, California. The primary exploration objectives are the Monterey Shale, the Miocene Stevens formation and the Carneros member of the Temblor formation. The secondary objectives include the Miocene Reef Ridge and Pliocene Etchegoin sands. The Stevens formation is Upper Miocene age.
The Lokern Project is being developed in part as a result of positive results from the Machii-Ross Ackerman show well drilled in 1979 on acreage currently controlled by us. Based on log analysis, we believe this well had approximately 240 feet of potential net oil pay and an additional 150 feet of potential pay in the Stevens zone. The Machii-Ross Ackerman well was drilled to a depth of 15,078 feet by Machii-Ross Petroleum Company and was plugged and abandoned as a dry hole. We believe, based on our log analysis, that the well may have been a bypassed producer.
Subject to drilling permits, we expect that a well will be drilled, either by us or through a farm-out arrangement with a third party, to a depth of 15,000 to 18,000 feet in 2013.
Based on our review of title information from public authorities and other publicly available sources, we believe that we have a 100% working interest in the Lokern Project. As is customary in the U.S. oil and gas industry, we will not conduct a thorough title review with respect to our interest in the Lokern Project until we have made a definitive decision to drill in a particular lease area.
Alberta
Swan Hills Project
The Swan Hills Project is located in the Central Alberta basin, Alberta, Canada. The primary exploration objective is the Swan Hills Formation at approximately 9,000 feet.
We, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, GeoPetro Canada, have reviewed 3-D seismic data over the prospect and plan to participate in the drilling of a test well. We have a 33% non-operated working interest in approximately 4,480 gross leased acres (1,493 net acres).
Indonesia
C-G Bengara owns 100% of the underlying rights to explore for and produce oil and natural gas within the contract area designated as the Bengara II Block, which rights have been granted under a production sharing contract dated December 4, 1997 (“Bengara II PSC”) with Pertamina. Previously we owned 40% of C-G Bengara and Continental Energy Corporation (“Continental”) owned the remaining 60% and, through it, the rights to the Bengara II PSC. On September 29, 2006, we executed a definitive agreement to sell 70% of our interest in C-G Bengara to Kunlun Energy (formerly CNPCHK (Indonesia) Limited) (“CNPC”). We have retained a 12% stake in C-G Bengara and the Bengara II PSC. Continental has likewise sold its interest and retained an 18% interest in C-G Bengara and the Bengara II PSC.
The Makapan Gas Field
Since 1938, only two wells have been drilled in the Bengara Block prior to 2007, one of which resulted in the discovery of the Makapan Gas Field. The Muara Makapan No. 1 well was drilled in 1988 by P.T. Deminex Indonesia from a swamp barge positioned on one of the Bulungan River Delta mouth channel distributaries. The well was drilled to a total depth of 10,800 feet and tested 19.5 MMcf/d together with 600 bbls of 54 degree API condensate per day from a 33 feet thick sandstone section near 6,000 feet. The well was plugged and abandoned as a natural gas discovery. Several other gas zones indicated on logs were not tested. The well was not produced nor were any confirmation wells drilled due to the lack of a local natural gas market at the time the well was drilled. The Makapan Gas Field gas is a “wet’ gas with a high LPG fraction which may be commercial to extract at the wellhead for a third revenue source in addition to the gas and condensate. The Makapan Gas Field lies mostly offshore in very shallow water, less than 10 feet, amidst numerous islands of the Bulungan River Delta.
Exploration in the Bengara Block
The Bengara Block is located in the Tarakan Basin, mostly onshore but partially offshore astride the Bulungan River Delta in the Indonesian province of East Kalimantan.
We believe that the key to successful prospecting in the Bengara Block will be the identification of traps and understanding sand distribution. Nearly 2,200 line kilometers of 2-D seismic data available within the Bengara Block appear to be adequate for both detailed and reconnaissance interpretation purposes. Some localized areas may benefit from reprocessing. New seismic data is required in places where insufficient data exists and for prospect confirmation in other locations. Several separate and unique geologic plays within the Bengara Block, as well as a number of prospects and leads, have been identified. Some well-defined prospects present immediate drilling targets. Exploration within the Bengara Block is in its formative stages and it is premature to make meaningful resource or reserve estimates. However, the existing exploration work to date indicates that there may be potential petroleum accumulations in the Bengara Block. Analysis of source rocks indicates a propensity for both oil and natural gas.
Terms of Participation in the Bengara Block
The Bengara II PSC is a “standard terms” PSC employed by BP Migas for all oil and natural gas concessions in Indonesia. Generally, the joint venture participants are entitled to receive, from production proceeds, 100% of expenditures in the block as “cost recovery”. Once these costs are recovered, C-G Bengara is entitled to a production share of approximately 26.7% of oil produced and 62.5% of all natural gas produced. We will be entitled to 12% of C-G Bengara’s share of any such production. Sharing terms for certain categories of oil vary slightly as defined in the Bengara II PSC. The term of the contract is thirty years from December 1997 or a shorter period if C-G Bengara elects to terminate its obligations under the contract or if no commercial hydrocarbons are discovered within the contract area. At the end of six years, unless mutually extended by C-G Bengara and BP Migas, the contract expires if no commercially producible hydrocarbons have been discovered in the contract area. C-G Bengara and BP Migas have previously extended the early termination provisions, and C-G Bengara has applied for a two year extension for lost time compensation due to delays associated with a dispute with prawn farm operators in the area of the seismic data acquisition program and the application is currently awaiting approval. BP Migas has approved a 2012 budget of $39.6 million. C-G Bengara is required to relinquish 25% of the contract area within the first three years of the contract, a further 25% of the contract area within six years from the commencement of the contract and an additional area within the first ten years so that the area retained thereafter shall not be in excess of 970 square kilometers, or 20% of the original total contract area, whichever is less. C-G Bengara may designate which areas are to be relinquished subject to approval by BP Migas. C-G Bengara’s obligation to relinquish parts of the original contract area under these provisions does not apply to the surface area of any field in which petroleum has been discovered. To date, acreage has been relinquished by C-G Bengara in accordance with the terms of the Bengara II PSC such that the remaining acreage within the Bengara II PSC totals approximately 240,000 acres, or 970 square kilometers. The remaining 240,000 acres is considered by C-G Bengara to be the most prospective portion of the original 1.2 million acre block.
C-G Bengara is required to pay to BP Migas specified amounts based on achieving certain cumulative production quantities of crude oil from the contract area when and if commercial production is established. These production bonuses are as follows:
In order to maintain the Bengara II PSC in effect, C-G Bengara was required to complete the work programs and expenditures totaling $25 million during the first ten years of the contract. C-G Bengara has fulfilled such minimum work and cash expenditure requirements.
Upon establishing commercial production, if ever, C-G Bengara and BP Migas shall share ratably in the first 20% of oil and natural gas produced in the contract area within a given year according to the percentages specified below. After the first 20% of production, C-G Bengara is entitled to receive 100% of production until cost recovery has been achieved. Cost recovery generally includes 100% of the operating and drilling costs and depreciation of fixed assets applicable to oil and natural gas operations within the contract area. After C-G Bengara has received oil and natural gas production with a value sufficient to achieve cost recovery in a given year, C-G Bengara and BP Migas shall then share ratably in the production according to the percentages specified below:
Upon the completion of five years after commercial production commences, C-G Bengara is further subject to a domestic market obligation. This obligation requires C-G Bengara to sell and deliver to BP Migas, to meet Indonesia’s domestic crude oil needs, a specified quantity of crude oil at a price which is only 15% of the market price of the oil. However, for new fields, for a period of five years starting on the month of the first delivery of crude oil produced from a new field, the fee per barrel for such crude oil supplied to the Indonesian domestic market shall be the market price, with the condition that the excess over the 15% of market price shall preferably be used to assist financing of continued exploration efforts in the contract area.
Upon the first commercial discovery of oil or natural gas in the contract area, BP Migas has the right to demand that 10% of C-G Bengara’s undivided interest in the total rights and obligations under the Bengara II PSC be offered to itself or an entity owned by Indonesian nationals. The 10% interest shall be offered at a dollar amount equal to 10% of C-G Bengara’s cumulative costs incurred in the contract area.
Current and Planned Activities in the Bengara Block
In accordance with the terms of our agreement dated September 29, 2006 pursuant to which we sold 70% of our interest in C-G Bengara to CNPC, CNPC:
· purchased 14,000 and 21,000 shares of C-G Bengara from us and Continental, respectively, at a cost of $1 per share. As a result of the transaction, we and Continental own 6,000 and 9,000 C-G Bengara shares, respectively, retaining a 12% and 18% interest in C-G Bengara, respectively;
· paid the sum of $18.7 million (“Earning Obligation”) into a special joint venture account at a Hong Kong international bank. The funds were expended exclusively to pay for exploration and/or appraisal drilling in the Bengara II PSC area;
· agreed to provide development loans to pay 100%, and thereby “carry” our share and Continental’s share of all C-G Bengara’s exploitation, drilling, and development expenditures attributable to the Bengara II PSC, after the Earning Obligation funds are expended and a Plan of Development has been approved by BP Migas, until an additional amount of U.S. $41.3 million over and above the Earning Obligation funds has been expended; and
· agreed to pay a cash bonus totaling $5,000,000, in the proportions of $2,000,000 to us and $3,000,000 to Continental, respectively, contingent upon and within fourteen business days of the receipt by C-G Bengara of the written approval from governmental authorities approving the development of the first commercial oil or gas discovery within the Bengara II PSC contract area.
During 2007, C-G Bengara drilled a total of four wells on the Bengara II PSC: the Seberaba-1, the Seberaba-3, the Seberaba-4, and the Punga-1. The technical information provided by drilling and testing results to date confirm the presence of an oil accumulation. However the data is not yet adequate to conclusively demonstrate the extent of the oil accumulation or that it has sufficient size of oil reserves to economically justify a full commercial development. Further technical information is required prior to commencing development. C-G Bengara has prepared a preliminary plan of development for the Seberaba discovery based upon drilling and testing results from the Seberaba-1 and 3 wells. In addition to these well test results, C-G Bengara believes additional technical information is needed prior to finalizing the formal plan of development and submitting it for approval to Indonesian oil and gas authorities. Approval of the formal plan of development will automatically invoke the final 20-year production period of the Bengara-II PSC through December 4, 2027.
During 2009 C-G Bengara awarded a contract to a seismic acquisition contractor to conduct a seismic acquisition program in the Bengara-II Block. Field shooting and recording operations on the 3-D portion of the seismic acquisition program are now completed. The full original 3-D program of 178 square kilometers (120 km2 full fold) has been recorded. Computer processing of the entire 3-D program is also now completed. Interpretation of the 3-D dataset has commenced.
Original 2009 plans also called for a total of 920 line kilometers of new 2-D seismic data to be shot and recorded. Repositioning of some lines and abandonment of others due to the prawn farm issues has resulted in a reduction of the planned 2-D program. C-G Bengara now expects to complete a total of 685 line kilometers of new 2-D seismic recording. Field shooting and recording operations on the revised 2-D portion of the seismic acquisition program are now over 70% completed. Field operations are expected to be completed shortly. Computer processing of the 2-D program is expected to be completed in 2012.The total estimated completion cost for the entire seismic program is $35 million.
A large part of the 2-D seismic program is also intended to provide additional definition of other exploration prospects in the Bengara-II Block to firm up new exploration drilling targets for a proposed 2012/2013 drilling program. A large portion of the seismic acquisition program was conducted in the logistically difficult and higher cost “transition zone” between a shallow marine offshore and onshore setting. The eastern portion of the Block is located mostly onshore but partially offshore in the shallow waters of the Sulawesi Sea and the Bulungan River delta.
C-G Bengara has received approval of the Indonesian government for an extension of time under the Bengara-II PSC to appraise, assess, and justify the economic feasibility of commercial development of the apparent oil discovery made on the Seberaba prospects during exploratory drilling in 2007 as noted above. C-G Bengara has applied for a two year extension for lost time compensation due to delays associated with a dispute with prawn farm operators in the area of the seismic data acquisition program and the application is currently awaiting approval. BP Migas has approved a 2012 budget of $39.6 million.
CG Xploration
In November 2005, we and Continental formed CG Xploration to pursue new venture oil and gas exploration and production projects and obtain new exploration concessions in Indonesia. CG Xploration was incorporated in Delaware and was owned 50% by us and 50% by Continental. CG Xploration did not complete any acquisitions. It ceased operations and subsequently was dissolved in 2011.
Australia
On June 20, 2007, the Company agreed to sell and transfer all of its remaining property interests in Australia to an unrelated party for cash consideration and a Petroleum Sales Royalty Payment equal to 25% of the future annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization from the property interests. Specifically, the agreement provides that the Company will be paid consideration for the sale and transfer of its property interests as follows:
· initial cash consideration of $175,000 was received on November 19, 2007;
· a second cash payment of $175,000 upon a successful flow test of petroleum from a well located on the property interests. A successful flow test is defined for purposes of this agreement to be a test of at least 7 million standard cubic feet of natural gas for a continuous and uninterrupted 24 hour period (or an equivalent oil/condensate rate based on a conversion ratio of 6000 cubic feet of gas to a barrel of oil or condensate); and
· a Petroleum Sales Royalty Payment equal to 25% of the future annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization from the property interests up to a total amount of $2,200,000.
Proved Reserves Disclosures
Internal Controls Over Reserves Estimates
Our policies regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves estimates requires reserves to be in compliance with the SEC definitions and guidance and prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering principles.
The Company engaged the independent petroleum engineering firm, MHA Petroleum Consultants, LLC (“MHA”) to prepare the Company’s reserve estimates at December 31, 2011 and 2010. MHA is a Denver based group of multiple professional engineers and geologists providing a wide range of technical services to the petroleum industry. Within MHA, the technical persons primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the MHA reserves report incorporated herein are Mr. John Arsenault and Mr. Dennis Holler. Mr. Arsenault has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at MHA since 2006, and has over 24 years of practical experience in petroleum engineering, with over 16 years experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. Mr. Holler has been practicing consulting petroleum geology at MHA since 2001. Mr. Holler has over 36 years of practical experience in petroleum geology, with over 26 years experience in the estimation and evaluation of reserves. Both technical principals meet or exceed the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; both are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geosciences evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines. MHA evaluated properties representing 100% of our reserves, valued at the total estimated future net cash flows before income taxes, discounted at 10% (“PV-10”), for all periods presented below. Senior members of our management review the final reserve report to ensure the accuracy and completeness of all inputs into the report. MHA’s report to management, which summarizes the scope of work performed and its conclusions, has been included in this report as Exhibit 99.1.
Proved Undeveloped (PUD) Reserves
As of December 31, 2011, our PUDs totaled 9.1 Bcf of natural gas.
· PUD Locations - 100% of our PUDs at year-end 2011 were associated with the Madisonville Field.
· Development Costs- Estimated future development costs relating to the development of PUDs are projected to be approximately $5.4 million and $4.2 million in 2012 and 2013 respectively.
· Drilling Plans - Our PUD development is scheduled in 2012 and 2013. Initial production from the PUD reserves is expected to begin in 2012.
Proved Oil and Gas Reserves
The 2011 and 2010 reserve estimates were prepared by MHA and are part of their reserve reports on our oil and natural gas properties. MHA’s estimates were based on a review of geologic, economic, ownership and engineering data that we provided. In estimating the reserve quantities that are economically recoverable, MHA used simple arithmetic average of the natural gas price in effect on the first day of each month in 2011 and 2010. All of our proved reserves are attributable to our Madisonville Project in Madison County, Texas.
Our estimated total net proved reserves of oil and natural gas as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the present values of estimated future net revenues attributable to those reserves as of those dates, are presented in the following tables.
In accordance with SEC regulations, estimates of our proved reserves and future net revenues are made using sales prices which are held constant throughout the life of the properties, except to the extent a contract specifically provides for escalation. Estimated quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues are affected by oil and natural gas prices, which have fluctuated significantly in recent years.
See “Glossary of Oil and Natural Gas Terms”
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows
For purposes of the following disclosures, estimates were made of quantities of proved reserves and the periods during which they are expected to be produced. Future cash flows for the 2011 & 2010 estimates were computed by applying the simple arithmetic average of the natural gas price in effect on the first day of each month in the respective years to estimated annual future net production from proved gas reserves. The price assumptions used for natural gas are indicated below. Future development drilling and production costs were computed by applying year-end costs to be incurred in producing and further developing the proved reserves. Future income tax expenses were computed by applying, generally, year-end statutory tax rates (adjusted for permanent differences, tax credits and allowances) to the estimated net future pre-tax cash flows. The discount was computed by application of a 10% discount factor. The calculations assume the continuation of existing economic, operating and contractual conditions. However, such arbitrary assumptions have not proven to be the case in the past. Other assumptions of equal validity could give rise to substantially different results:
The standardized measure values shown in the aforementioned table are not intended to represent the current market value of the estimated proved oil and gas reserves owned by us.
Pricing Assumptions
SEC regulations require that the gas price used for the December 31, 2011 and 2010 MHA reserve reports is the simple arithmetic average of the natural gas price in effect on the first day of each month in 2011 and 2010 respectively. These prices are projected without inflation for the life of the wells included in the reserve reports. The pricing assumptions are listed below and represent the un-weighted average price for natural gas delivered based upon the Houston Ship Channel price, as adjusted, before any reductions for transportation and processing fees:
Acreage and Productive Wells
The following table sets forth our ownership interest in undeveloped acreage, developed acreage and productive wells in the areas indicated where we own a working interest as of December 31, 2011. Gross represents the total number of acres or wells in which we own a working interest. Net represents our proportionate working interest resulting from our ownership in gross acres or wells. Productive wells are wells in which we have a working interest and that are capable of producing natural gas or oil. Wells that are completed in more than one producing horizon are counted as one well.
The following table sets forth as of December 31, 2011, the expiration periods of the gross and net undeveloped acreage:
Volumes, Prices and Production Costs
Substantially all of our production is derived from our Madisonville Project in Madison County, Texas. The following table sets forth information with respect to our production volumes, average prices received and average production costs for the periods indicated:
(1) Production volumes for 2011 and 2010 represent actual plant throughput.
(2) The sales price reflected for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 represents the sales price realized before deducting treatment, gathering and transportation costs, and is based up on plant throughput.
(3) Lease operating expense per Mcf is based on lease operating expense and sales volumes net to our interests in the Madisonville gas wells.
Business Risks and Other Special Considerations
Refer to “Risk Factors” in this report for a discussion of business risks and other special considerations.
Item 3.