Item 2. Properties
The Comstock District
Location, Access, and Title to the Property
The Company and its subsidiaries own or control property located in Storey and Lyon Counties, Nevada. The property is located predominantly in the Comstock and Silver City districts, just south of Virginia City, Nevada. Paved state routes from Reno, Carson City, and Virginia City provide access to the property. The Comstock District has been the focus of our efforts since 2003.
Our mineral estate in the Comstock District and surrounding area consists of patented mining claims, unpatented mining claims administered by the BLM, five mineral leases, one joint venture (providing exclusive rights to exploration, development, mining and production), and fee ownership of real property. This includes 110 patented and 382 unpatented mineral lode claims, as well as 39 unpatented placer claims. The Company holdings consist of approximately 9,358 acres of mining claims and parcels. The acreage is includes approximately 2,396 acres of patented claims (private lands) and surface parcels (private lands), and approximately 6,962 acres of unpatented mining claims that the BLM administers.
Figure 2 - Comstock Mining's Property and Mineral Leases in the Comstock District
The Company holds the following mineral leases, as shown in Figure 2:
Fred Garrett - Lease
On April 1, 2008, we entered into a mineral exploration and mining lease agreement with Fred Garrett et al, covering one patented claim located in Storey County, Nevada. The lease remains in effect as long as exploration, development, mining, or processing operations are being conducted on a continuous basis, without a lapse of activity for more than 180 days. We pay a royalty to the lessor of $250 per month or a 3% net smelter royalty (“NSR”), whichever is greater. We are responsible for the payment and filing of annual maintenance fees, if any, and taxes for these claims.
James Obester Lease
On August 1, 2008, we entered into a mineral exploration and mining lease agreement with James Obester, covering ten unpatented claims located in Storey County. The lease remains in effect as long as exploration, development, mining, or processing operations are conducted on a continuous basis, without a lapse of activity of more than 180 days. We pay a royalty to the lessor amounting to $200 per month for the first two years and later increasing to $300 per month for the following three years, and then increasing to $500 per month thereafter. In addition, a NSR royalty percentage is applicable. The royalty percentage is a 2% NSR when the market price of gold is $900 or less per ounce and 3% NSR when gold is greater than $900 per ounce. We are also responsible for payment and filing of annual maintenance fees, if any, and taxes for these claims.
Railroad & Gold - Lease
On October 1, 2009, we entered into a mineral exploration and mining lease agreement with Railroad and Gold, LLC covering nine patented mining claims and sixteen unpatented mining claims in Storey County. The lease also includes rights for nine town lots and a rural parcel in American Flats. The lease is for an initial term of 15 years, but remains in effect for as long as exploration, development, mining, or processing operations are conducted on a continuous basis. We made an initial payment of $25,000 for the lease. The Company makes annual advance minimum royalty payments, which started with $30,000 on the first anniversary, and increasing by $5,000 each year. We are also required to pay a 4% NSR, which will be reduced by the sum of previously paid advance minimum royalties. We are also responsible for payment and filing of annual maintenance fees, if any, and taxes for these claims. Effective January 1, 2016, the royalty was reduced to 1% NSR in exchange for 24 monthly payments of $2,083. Additionally, starting January 1, 2016, the annual payment on the lease was reduced for 2016 to $18,000 per year and $20,400 per year in 2017 and 2018.
New Daney - Lease
On June 2, 2010, we entered into a mineral exploration and mining lease agreement with New Daney Company, Inc. covering seven unpatented lode claims. These claims are located in Lyon County and are contiguous with the Company’s Spring Valley mineral holdings. All production from the property is subject to a 3% NSR. Once permits have been obtained to put the property into production, lease payments will be treated as advance royalties, which will be credited against the NSR. The Company makes advance minimum royalty payments of $200 per month. The lease is for an initial term of five years. We have the option, if we believe the property warrants further development, to extend an additional five years and then continuously thereafter as long as exploration, development, mining, or processing operations are conducted on a continuous basis. The lease was amended December 18, 2015 to extend the lease through 2020, and to include an option to purchase the claims, including the NSR, for $100,000.
Renegade Mineral Holdings - Lease
On October 14, 2010, we acquired twenty-six unpatented lode-mining claims along the southern extension of the Occidental Lode structure in Storey County, Nevada. The historic Occidental Lode, also referred to as the Brunswick Lode, is located 1.5 miles due east of and sub-parallel to the veins of the main Comstock Lode. These claims adjoined and extended the Company’s previous holdings of six patented and six unpatented claims, significantly expanding the Company’s position on the Occidental Lode. The Lease has an initial term of three years and, in the event we determine that exploration results warrant further development, then the term can be extended initially for two additional six-year terms and then continuously thereafter as long as the Company is producing on property adjacent to or in the vicinity of these claims. The agreement includes a 3% NSR from production with the gold price capped at $2,000 per ounce. We are also responsible for payment and filing of annual maintenance fees, if any, and taxes for these claims. The lease was amended in October 2013 to formally extend the lease for the first additional six-year term. The lease still provides for a second additional six-year term, and then continuously thereafter.
Northern Comstock LLC- Joint Venture
On October 20, 2010, the Company entered into an operating agreement (the “Operating Agreement”) to form Northern Comstock LLC (“Northern Comstock”) with Mr. Winfield, our largest shareholder, and an entity controlled by Mr. Winfield, DWC Resources, Inc. (“DWC”). As part of the Operating Agreement, the Company obtained rights relating to certain property formerly owned by DWC in Storey County, Nevada (the “DWC Property”) and two groups of properties leased by Mr. Winfield in Storey County, Nevada from the Sutro Tunnel Company (the “Sutro Property”) and Virginia City Ventures (the “VCV Property”).
Pursuant to the terms of the Operating Agreement for Northern Comstock, DWC contributed the DWC Property to Northern Comstock and John Winfield contributed his rights under the Sutro and the VCV leases to Northern Comstock. The Company contributed 862.5 shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock in each annual period from 2010 to 2013, and contributes its services in the area of mine exploration, development and production to Northern Comstock. The terms of the Operating Agreement provided that on each anniversary of the Operating Agreement, up to and including the thirty-ninth (39th) anniversary, the Company would make additional capital contributions in the amount of $862,500, in the form of Series A-1 Preferred Stock or cash (upon request of Northern Comstock, which request for cash can be denied by the Company in certain circumstances). As a result of the Company’s 2015 charter amendments, all of the Company’s outstanding shares of preferred were automatically converted into shares of Common Stock.
On August 27, 2015, the Company signed an Amendment to the Operating Agreement with Northern Comstock LLC. The Amendment resulted in reduced capital contribution obligations of the Company from $31.05 million down to $9.75 million. The Operating Agreement requires that the Company make monthly cash capital contributions of $30,000 to Northern Comstock LLC and annual capital contributions in the amount of $482,500 payable in stock or cash, at the Company's option, unless the Company has cash and cash equivalents in excess of $10,500,000 on the date of such payments, wherein the Company would then be required to pay in cash. The number of shares to be delivered is calculated by dividing the amount of the capital contribution by the volume-weighted average closing price of the Company’s common stock on its primary trading market for the previous 20 consecutive trading days prior to such capital contribution. The Operating Agreement also provides for a one-time acceleration of $812,500 of the capital contributions payable when the Company receives net cash proceeds from sources other than operations that exceed $6,250,000. The agreement also includes an ongoing acceleration of the Company’s capital contribution obligations equal to 3% of the net smelter returns generated by the properties subject to the Northern Comstock joint venture. The Operating Agreement also provides that if the Company defaults in its obligation to make the scheduled capital contributions, then the remaining capital contribution obligations may be converted into the principal amount of a 6% per annum promissory note payable by the Company on the same schedule as the capital contributions, secured by a mortgage on the properties subject to the Northern Comstock joint venture. The Operating Agreement requires that these capital contributions commence in October 2015, and end in September 2027, unless prepaid by the Company.
The Operating Agreement provides the Company with the exclusive rights of development, production, mining and exploration on the respective properties and requires the Company to make certain expenditures toward that end. Under the terms of the Operating Agreement, all cash flows from the bullion or other minerals recovered from the ore mined out of the ground but untreated and minerals produced from the milling or reduction of ore to a higher grade produced from the DWC Property, Sutro Property or VCV Property, as applicable, or finished products produced from any such property, will be distributed to the Company after the payment of royalties associated with such properties.
Mineral production from the DWC Property is subject to a 1% NSR royalty payable to Mr. Art Wilson. Mineral production on the Sutro Property is subject to a royalty of 5% NSR. Mineral production from the VCV Property is subject to a 5% NSR royalty. The Company makes advance minimum royalty payments of $1,000 per month on the Sutro Property and $6,000 per year on the VCV Property leases. Each lease is for an initial term of five years. We have the option, if we believe the property warrants further development, to extend an additional five years and then continuously thereafter as long as exploration, development, mining, or processing operations are conducted on a continuous basis.
Facilities Area
The heap leach facility and former Company headquarters originally occupied a 40-acre site in Storey County, Nevada, at 1200 American Flat Road, approximately three miles south of Virginia City and 30 miles southeast of Reno, Nevada. The property was included in the acquisition of Plum Mining by the Company in November 2003. The site has expanded, through land acquisitions, to 400 acres. The Company’s headquarters is at our Corporate Campus at 117, 119 and 123 American Flat Road in Gold Hill, Nevada, covering a 5-acre parcel. Our mining and reclamation operations have taken place over a nearly 100-acre area.
The Como Project
The Como Project is located in Lyon County, Nevada, approximately 15 miles east of Carson City. The Company performed geological reconnaissance on this property, but has not drilled or collected any samples. We own a 100% interest in eight unpatented lode-mining claims, covering an area of approximately 168 acres in Lyon County, Nevada, that comprise the Como Project.
Present Condition of Property and Work Performed
We have completed extensive geological mapping, sampling, and drilling on a limited portion of the Comstock District mineral property, particularly the Lucerne and Dayton resource areas, in order to characterize the mineralized material. We have performed metallurgical testing, mine planning, and economic analysis, and have produced internal reports of our mineralized material inventory. We conducted test mining operations from 2004 through 2006 and from 2012 through 2016. However, we have not established reserves that meet the requirements of SEC Industry Guide 7. Therefore, any activities that we perform on our lands and claims are considered exploratory in nature, including test mining.
Geology, Structure and Mineralization
Gold and silver mineralization in the Lucerne resource area is highly dependent on geologic attributes including but not limited to: multiple episodes of mineralization; numerous fault structures of varying orientations that acted as fluid conduits for precious metal transport; and amenable host rocks for deposition of economic concentrations of precious metals. The primary host rocks for the current Comstock resource areas are early Miocene age volcanic rocks, primarily andesitic to rhyolite volcanic flows, domes and intrusive rocks.
From 2007 through 2016, the Company drilled 997 RC and core holes in the Lucerne resource area, totaling 370,522 feet. The Lucerne geologic database now contains 1,850 holes totaling 473,224 feet, including 2004-2005, drilling by the Company and previous drilling by other mining companies.
Mineralization in the Lucerne resource area is located in the historic mine sites of the Lucerne open-cut, Justice, Keystone, Silver Hill, Hartford, Billie the Kid, and Woodville. The mentioned historic mines extracted precious metals from mining vein material from the northwest striking Silver City fault zone. Detailed studies by our geologic staff have identified within the Silver City fault zone four definitive sub-parallel northwest striking mineralized structures. The spacing between each of these structures is approximately 100 to 150 feet. Currently, definition and infill drilling on 50 to 100 foot centers has confirmed gold and silver mineralization over a strike distance of approximately one mile along the Silver City fault zone. Mineralization is open-ended to the north and south along strike and down-dip to the east, including the Chute Zone in the eastern portion of the Lucerne resource area.
Our geologists have also identified structurally complex zones developed within the Silver City fault zone that have enhanced precious metals grade of contiguous mineralization averaging 0.10 gold ounces per ton extending approximately 200 feet. The structural complexity is explained by a series of northeasterly striking structures that represent a separate, later mineralizing event intersecting with the northwesterly striking assembly of Silver City fault zone structures.
During 2014, 2015 and 2016, the mineralized material extracted from the Lucerne resource area and historical dumps progressively increased in silver content. In early 2014, the silver to gold ratio was approximately 10:1. As the open cut developed the northern Justice portion of the Lucerne and deepened down-dip along the Silver City fault zone, the silver to gold ratio increased. The 2014 weighted average of silver to gold ratio was 17.5:1. During 2015 the weighted average silver to gold ratio was 18.5:1. This compares to historic ratios of silver to gold of as high as 100:1 located in the northern Comstock District.
Future Exploration Potential
The Comstock Mining district is a well-known, historic mining district, with over 150 years of production-based history. From our first acquisition in the Comstock District, we have accumulated a vast collection of historic reports and maps on properties in the district. The data collection has been transformed into digital files with two-dimensional and three-dimensional presentation capabilities. Our exploration efforts in the past have been focused primarily upon the Lucerne and Dayton resource areas. We have conducted detailed geologic exploration and resource modeling on less than 10% of our approximate 9,358-acre land position. Going forward the Company will continue ongoing exploration and development programs in the Lucerne and Dayton resource areas and expand the exploration to underground mineral targets. This will
include but not be limited to further compilation and review of historic surface and sub-surface geology, geochemical and geophysical investigations and drilling.
Dayton Resource Area
The Company plans to advance the Dayton resource area to full feasibility, with a production ready mine plan within the next two years. The volcanic host rocks and structural controls of the mineralization defined to date for the Dayton resource area are projected south into Spring Valley. Economic gold mineralization has been intercepted in several wide spaced drill holes conducted during prior Spring Valley drilling programs. The technical staff has identified multiple drill targets within several specific locations that encompass the Dayton resource area and Spring Valley. The new targets are based on the Company's latest review of previous geophysical studies and current interpretation of the geology. The Company's long-term plan is to further develop the Lucerne resource area and the Dayton Spring Valley complex, while advancing plans for exploring the remaining historic mining areas, which include the Occidental group and Gold Hill group of exploration targets.
The geologic and engineering team completed underground mapping, sampling, and surveying in a number of historic mine tunnels on and near the Dayton resource area. Several historic mines operated in the Dayton area, leaving access to multiple structures from underground. Some historical adits have remained open or have been uncovered by the Company. Where accessible, the workings were inspected; geology mapped and mineralized material sampled. Once sampling was completed, the workings were surveyed to document the size of the mine workings, the location of the openings and location of the samples. The samples were then assayed at the Company’s in house metallurgical laboratory for gold and silver.
This underground sampling program has provided a wealth of assay information and provided critical information for furthering the geologic understanding of the Dayton. In some cases structures identified on the surface were traced underground and in other cases new structures were identified underground were surface expressions were absent or obscured. To facilitate one of the long lead items required to bring a project into production is baseline hydrologic data.
Spring Valley
Spring Valley is located south of the Dayton resource area and south and east of State Route 341. Ground magnetic geophysical surveys identified a linear anomalous corridor, defined by a series of relative magnetic lows. Limited drilling in Spring Valley has intercepted altered volcanic host rocks and identified several mineralized zones. Selected drill hole intercepts are highlighted (see Figure 4 in the Exploration section of the Management Discussion and Analysis). The expanded exploration program for Spring Valley will include phased drilling programs that will continue southerly from SR341 to the historic Daney mine site (see Figure 5 in the Exploration section of the Management Discussion and Analysis). The targeted area has a total strike length of approximately 8,000 feet.
Occidental
The Occidental vein is a sub parallel vein system to the Comstock Lode and is considered by the Company to be an underexplored, potentially significant exploration target. The Occidental has also been historically referred to as the Brunswick Lode, with historic production records reporting 25,000 tons mined and processed from 1868 to 1894, at an average grade of approximately 0.75 opt gold equivalent. The underground workings were relatively shallow (350 ft) compared to some of the Comstock Lode mines that were developed to depths in excess of 3,000 feet. The Occidental vein system, spanning patented and unpatented claims, has a measured strike length of over 7,600 feet, on land controlled by the Company. Detailed geologic assessment combined with new technological advances in 3-D geophysical surveys will be reviewed to best define future drilling and development plans for this exploration target.
Gold Hill
The northern Comstock underground targets of the Gold Hill Group will be prioritized and exploration proposals will follow. Several locations in the Gold Hill Group have been selected for a focused underground development evaluation. The historic mining record of the area has multiple accounts of mining activity and production prematurely halted. The reasons for halting the historic mining activity have been documented by reports describing litigation, unfavorable rock conditions and economic mineralization crossing claim boundaries owned by other mining companies of the time. The Company now controls the contiguous lands of the Gold Hill group and has an opportunity to explore the mineral potential of this area more cost effectively by utilizing knowledge gained from the review of the historical records.
Item 3.