Item 2. Description of Exhibits
Signatures
PART I
ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
General
The Registrant, Friendly Energy Corporation, is a Nevada corporation which was incorporated on January 7, 1993 as Eco-Systems Marketing Corporation. It was originally formed for the purpose of marketing ecologically sound products.
On January 2, 1996, Granite Development Company (named BioTherapeutics Corporation at the time), a public Company, purchased all of the shares of the Registrant. On July 17, 1996, Douglas Trust purchased 95% of the shares of the Registrant from Granite Development Corporation.
On April 21, 1997, the Registrant changed its name to Rama Financial Corporation and changed its purpose to the development of certain mineral deposits. Subsequently, on June 24, 1997, Granite Development Corporation distributed all of its remaining shares of the Registrant to its shareholders in a spin out distribution.
On April 12, 1999, the Registrant changed its name to Friendly Energy Corporation. It changed its primary purpose to selling electric power and related services to businesses and industry in the newly deregulated electrical energy markets, starting with California. The Registrant is a development stage company as defined in Statement 7 of the Financial Accounting Standards Board.
The Registrant qualified as an electric service provider with San Diego Gas & Electric on January 10, 2000, Southern California Edison on May 15, 2000 and Pacific Gas & Electric on May 18, 2000.
In marketing power to business and industry owners, the Registrant plans to offer a package of services to earn additional revenue, including meter services, demand management services and audit services.
The primary sources of the Registrant's revenues are anticipated to be from the resale of energy purchased on a wholesale basis and from the sale of other services.
On December 27, 1999, the Registrant filed an Information and Disclosure Statement with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. ("NASD") pursuant to Rule 15c2-11 to become a publicly traded nonreporting Company on the OTC Bulletin Board. On June 26, 2000, the Registrant was notified by the NASD that its shares were qualified for trading on a nonquoted basis on the "electronic pink sheets," where the Registrant's common stock is currently trading under the symbol "FDEG". Since the Registrant’s securities have not been previously quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, the Registrant's securities will not be eligible for trading on the OTC Bulletin Board until its Form 10SB Registration Statement clears comments with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Registrant remains current in its reporting requirements.
Principal Services
To date the Registrant has devoted substantially all of its efforts and resources to its development as an energy service provider. The Registrant plans to sell electric power and ancillary services to targeted segments of the economy, e.g., businesses that can efficiently manage their energy demands and businesses that use significant off-peak power. The Registrant plans to attract customers by reducing electricity consumption costs. Under current regulation, most customer rates are based on average embedded costs. Customers generally receive a single, high level of service reliability and are charged the same rate for service throughout each billing period regardless of the actual cost to the utility. As a result, consumers cannot control their electricity costs by varying the times during which they use electricity and the reliability of service they desire. The Registrant plans to offer customers an alternative pricing structure that will save them money on their electric bills. The Registrant also plans to save customers money by offering ancillary services, including meter services, demand management services and audit services. The Registrant also plans to sell “green power” to environmentally concerned consumers.
For certain customers, the Registrant plans to act as an energy aggregator to provide businesses with the opportunity to pool together into a common buying group to make larger, more economical purchases of energy. The Registrant intends to market to various types of organizations, including apartment complexes, business associations, and trade groups. The Registrant also intends to market to commercial customers in close proximity to each other, including shopping centers, recreational areas, water and school districts, industrial parks, strip malls, and other business centers.
A market-based pricing model has been adopted in California and it is anticipated that it will be adopted in other states. This places a premium on the ability to control or displace energy consumption during certain peak periods and, therefore, significantly improves the economics of various devices and energy management systems. Significant savings are possible by controlling usage during times when the cost of power is several times more expensive than the annual average price. .
The Registrant also plans to offer communication and information management systems to provide customers with continuously updated details of monthly energy use by certain major appliances or by certain pricing categories. This information will enable energy customers to estimate energy cost impacts and potential efficiency improvements.
Distribution Methods of the Services
The Registrant has begun its direct marketing of energy services to businesses. The Registrant is building up its sales force of independent contractors working under the guidance of the Director of Marketing and regional managers. The regional managers will be responsible for goals established in regard to the performance of their “team” as well as meeting individual sales goals. Most of the compensation will be performance based, with a small salary, commissions on individual sales and overrides on the performance of representatives under their control.
The sales force is expected to market the Registrant’s products and services through key contacts with "decision makers" in businesses and organizations. The Registrant plans to advertise its services in various media. The Registrant also plans to advertise through direct
mail, telemarketing, web marketing, and teleconferencing symposiums. The Registrant intends to maintain a strong Internet presence; the Registrant’s current web site will be enhanced not only to feature information on Friendly Energy, but also to provide industry articles of interest and other items that may be of interest to a web site visitor. An interactive web site is planned for the future, which will allow potential customers to enroll with the Company on-line and will allow existing customers to access data on their individual accounts. The Company will also develop links to other sites of interest to electricity consumers. .
The Registrant plans to replicate its operating model in other states as they deregulate. After California, the marketing focus will be Nevada, Arizona and Colorado. There are more than 40 states at various stages of electricity deregulation.
Competition
Approximately thirty (30) Electric Service Providers (ESPs) in addition to the Registrant are currently qualified to sell electricity in California. The market can be divided into three major segments: (1) large industrial customers, (2) small to medium-sized commercial customers, and (3) residential customers. The Registrant does not intend to market to residential customers. The most competitive market is the large industrial segment. Many of the large ESPs have targeted industrials as their sole marketing focus. While the Registrant also intends to penetrate this market, its emphasis is on the small to medium-sized commercial customers. In this market segment approximately five firms offer direct competition to the Registrant. Most of the Registrant's competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger installed customer bases, and greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than the Registrant. There is no assurance that the Registrant will be able to compete successfully in the energy business.
Principal Suppliers
The principal supplier of electricity in California is the California Power Exchange which was set up in 1998 as a central exchange where buyers-the state's three investor-owned utilities-and sellers-energy service providers and generating companies-would match their bids and offers.. In addition the Registrant’s suppliers are wholesalers including electrical power suppliers in the Western United States. The Registrant is currently in negotiations to secure bulk supplies both through power marketing firms specializing in this area and direct solicitation of power sources. Additionally, other power generation sources are being negotiated with to establish more exclusive business relationships between the generation and wholesale markets to service the Registrant’s retail operations. Power supply contracts are obtained from these low-cost sources as customer loads grow to the levels that permit economic purchases. We have not as yet entered into any power supply contracts.
Dependence on One or a Few Customers
The Registrant will not depend on one or a few customers. The Registrant's products and services require a large customer base.
Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses
The Registrant has not applied for any patents and does not intend to do so in the foreseeable future. The Registrant has not been issued any registered trademarks for its "Friendly Energy" trade name. The Registrant recently filed a trademark application with the United States Office of Patents and Trademarks for its trade name. No assurance can be given that the Registrant will be successful in obtaining any trademarks, or that the trademarks, if obtained, will afford the Registrant any protection or competitive advantages.
The Registrant qualified as an electric service provider with San Diego Gas & Electric on January 10, 2000, Southern California Edison on May 15, 2000 and Pacific Gas & Electric on May 18, 2000. The Agreements govern the business relationship between the parties by which the ESP shall offer electrical energy services, including account maintenance, billing services, electrical meter installation, and meter reading services.
Government Approvals
The Registrant does not require specific governmental approvals at the federal level to transact business as an Electric Service Provider. The Registrant does not require governmental approvals from the State of California to transact business as an Electric Service Provider since it does not intend to sell to residential customers. An application has been prepared by the Registrant to become a registered alternative service provider in Nevada. The Registrant will apply for any necessary governmental approvals in other states as requirements are established.
Government Regulations
There is extensive government regulation of the electric power industry. At the federal level, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") regulates the purchase and sale of energy and power. The individual state’s Public Utilities Commissions regulate utilities and other purchasers and sellers of power at the state level.
The trend over the last ten years has been to deregulate more and more of the industry. The 1992 National Energy Policy Act allowed more types of unregulated companies to generate and sell electricity. In September 1996, the California legislature passed landmark legislation, which fundamentally changed California's electric services industry by introducing competition and consumer choice. Other states are following suit. The effect of changing government regulations is expected to be very positive for electric service providers.
Research and Development
The Registrant has spent approximately $1,500,000 over the past one and one-half years in developing relationships and opportunities and obtaining approvals as an electric service provider. These development costs will not be borne directly by customers.
Compliance with Environmental Laws
As an Electric Service Provider, the Registrant does not assume any of the responsibilities associated with environmental compliance laws or regulations. The Registrant may, indirectly, be impacted by the cost of environmental compliance by some of the power
plants from which it purchases power, but the Registrant will seek other power sources if any are found to have substantial environmental problems.
Employees
The Registrant currently has nine full time employees. Consultants and specialized professional support in the legal, financial, and computer operations are retained on a part-time, as needed, basis.
Litigation
The Registrant is not currently a party to or the subject of any pending legal proceeding.
Reports to security Holders
The Registrant has voluntarily filed the Form 10-SB in order to become a fully reporting company. This filing was undertaken in order to be eligible for an initial listing on the NASD OTC Bulletin and a listing when qualified on the NASDAQ Small Cap Market. By virtue of being so listed as a publicly traded company, the Registrant will have access to the public markets for fund raising to assist it with its in Research and Development efforts and for the marketing of its products and services.
This Registration Statement will become automatically effective as of 60 days from the date of filing and consequently, the Registrant will be required to file annual reports in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20549. The Public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is (www.sec.gov). The Registrant’s Internet address is www.friendlyenergy.com.
ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OR PLAN OF OPERATIONS
The primary activities of the Registrant to date have been to form the Company, assemble a management and consultant team, identify markets, develop products, and obtain initial capitalization. In addition, the Registrant has commenced marketing energy and related services to small and large businesses in California, Nevada and Arizona. The Registrant has also begun development of its Electronic Data Interface (EDI) system to interface with suppliers and utilities. The Registrant has not had revenues from operations to date.
Since the inception of January 7, 1993 through December 31, 1999, the Registrant has had no revenue and has had costs and expenses of $653,794, including $332,587 in consulting fees. At December 31, 1999, the Registrant had working capital of $12,841, which included $8,687 in cash.
The Registrant’s auditors have noted the following: “The Company has minimal capital resources presently available to meet obligations which normally can be expected to be incurred by similar companies, and with which to carry out its planned activities. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.” Management estimates that the Company will need approximately $4 million between now and October 2001, mainly for deposits with energy wholesalers, in order to remove the going concern opinion.
Plan of Operation
Over the next twelve months, the Registrant plans to continue marketing energy and related services to small and large businesses in California and Nevada.
Also during the next twelve months, the Registrant plans to begin servicing customers, first in California and then in Nevada, as soon a deregulation goes into effect. Services will include auditing services, metering services, monitoring services and billing services. The Registrant will assist customers in reducing demand, especially peak period demand through consulting services and “demand side management”. The Registrant will also enhance its web site to handle routine customer inquiries. In addition, the Registrant will complete its Electronic Data Interface (EDI) system.
The implementation and expansion of the Registrant’s business will require a commitment of substantial funds. The Company’s current cash on hand will satisfy cash requirements for less than one month. Operating expenses for 2001 are estimated at $1,341,000 including $607,000 for salaries, $66,000 for professional services, $140,000 for rent and $48,000 for travel. Additional funding will be required in the future to satisfy capital requirements for the Registrant. Issuing additional equity will result in dilution to the existing shareholders. If adequate funds are not available, the Registrant’s business could be adversely affected since internally generated funds are not expected to be sufficient to fund the Registrant’s expansion needs in the in the next twelve months. At present, there are no funds committed to the Registrant, and no offer for equity or debt financing is imminent.
The Registrant plans to raise approximately $10,000,000 over the next twelve months to expand its marketing activities, implement an Electronic Data Interface (EDI) system, and fund operational activities. The Registrant plans to raise these funds through the sale of preferred shares and through a registered public offering beginning in the fourth quarter of 2000.
The market for electric energy and related services is characterized by rapidly changing relationships among the generators, the utilities which provide transmission and distribution, and the electric service provider resellers (such as the Registrant) due to ongoing deregulation of the electric energy markets. In addition, the market for electric energy is characterized by seasonality. Therefore, the Registrant’s success is dependent upon its ability to develop favorable relationships with generators and utilities and to identify, anticipate and adapt to changes in the industry.
There can be no assurance that competitors will not market electric energy services and related products that have certain competitive advantages over those of the Registrant. Furthermore, the markets for the Registrant’s products may be particularly volatile due to the changing industry brought about by deregulation. The Registrant will rely on the experience of its management team to make strategic decisions with respect to its operations. In addition, the
Registrant will rely on experienced consultants, which it has engaged in the areas of electric deregulation and EDI systems.
There are no known trends, events, or uncertainties, other than those discussed above, that have had or are reasonable expected to have a material impact on the net sales or other revenues from continuing operations of the Registrant.
Other than those discussed above, the Registrant is unaware of any material events and uncertainties that would cause its reported financial information not to be indicative of future operating results or of its future financial condition.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this report regarding matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. Because such forward-looking statements include risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, competition, the demand for the Registrant’s products, and other factors identified from time to time in the Registrant’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Registrant undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. However, the Registrant may revise forward-looking statements in accordance with reporting obligations.
R&D
The Registrant plans to continue developing relationships and opportunities and obtaining approvals as an Electric Service Provider. In addition, it will continue development of its EDI systems.
Plant and Equipment
The Registrant does not plan to purchase or sell a plant or significant equipment during the next twelve months. The Registrant plans to develop and install computer based customer relationship management software as well as an Electronic Data Interface (EDI) system that will allow communication directly to the utilities for information interchange. In California, an EDI system is a requirement placed on individual electric service providers by the utilities as soon as the number of customers served is greater than twenty-five.
Employees
The Registrant plans to expand the number of employees from nine (9) to twenty (20) over the next twelve months.
ITEM 3.