Item 2: Properties
General Background
From our inception in August 2000 through 2004, we built our asset base and achieved growth primarily through property acquisitions. Beginning in 2005, while we have continued to grow through acquisition, we have shifted our focus to growth through development of our existing properties.
As of December 31, 2009, our estimated proved reserves had a pre-tax PV10 value of approximately $1.12 billion and a Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Cash Flows of approximately $754.2 million, approximately 80% of which relate to our properties in Texas, approximately 15% of which relate to our properties located in New Mexico, approximately 4% relate to our properties in Oklahoma and less than 1% relate to our properties in Kansas. We spent approximately $485.6 million on acquisitions and capital projects during 2007, 2008 and 2009. We expect to further develop these properties through additional drilling. We will closely manage our capital expenditures to our cash flow. As commodity prices change we will consider the resulting impact on our cash flow and adjust our capital expenditures up or down accordingly. We have maintained a strong current cash position with no long-term debt; we will continue to seek acquisition opportunities that complement our core assets.
The following table summarizes our total net proved reserves, pre-tax PV10 value and Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows as of December 31, 2009.
Proved Reserves
Our 69,251,294 Boe of proved reserves, which consist of approximately 86% oil and 14% natural gas, are summarized below as of December 31, 2009, on a net pre-tax PV10 value and Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows basis. Our reserve estimates have not been filed with any Federal authority or agency (other than the SEC).
As of December 31, 2009, our Texas proved reserves had a net pre-tax PV10 value of $877.9 million and Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows of $592.2 million, our proved reserves in New Mexico had a net pre-tax PV10 value of $185.6 million and Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows of $123.9 million, our proved reserves in Oklahoma had a net pre-tax PV10 value of $57.0 million and a Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows of $37.1 million and our proved reserves in Kansas had a net pre-tax PV10 value of $0.8 million and a Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows of $1.0 million.
As of December 31, 2009, approximately 33% of the proved reserves have been classified as proved developed producing, or “PDP”. Proved developed behind pipe, or “PDBP” reserves constitute approximately 5% and proved undeveloped, or “PUD”, reserves constitute approximately 62%, of the proved reserves as of December 31, 2009.
Total proved reserves had a net pre-tax PV10 value as of December 31, 2009 of approximately $1.12 billion and a Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows of approximately $754.2 million, 35.1% or $394.0 million and $265.7 million, respectively, of which is associated with the PDP reserves. An additional $69.5 million and $46.6 million, respectively, is associated with the PDBP reserves, or 6.2% of total proved reserves’ pre-tax PV10 value. The remaining $657.9 million and $441.9 million, respectively, is associated with PUD reserves.
Proved Reserves Disclosures
Recent SEC Rule-Making Activity. In December 2008, the SEC announced that it had approved revisions to modernize the oil and gas reserve reporting disclosures. The new disclosure requirements include provisions that:
·
Introduce a new definition of oil and gas producing activities. This new definition allows companies to include in their reserve base volumes from unconventional resources. Such unconventional resources include bitumen extracted from oil sands and oil and gas extracted from coal beds and shale formations.
·
Report oil and gas reserves using an unweighted average price using the prior 12-month period, based on the closing prices on the first day of each month, rather than year-end prices.
·
Permit companies to disclose their probable and possible reserves on a voluntary basis. In the past, proved reserves were the only reserves allowed in the disclosures. We have chosen not to make disclosure under these categories.
·
Requires companies to provide additional disclosure regarding the aging of proved undeveloped reserves.
·
Permit the use of reliable technologies to determine proved reserves if those technologies have been demonstrated empirically to lead to reliable conclusions about reserves volumes.
·
Replace the existing “certainty” test for areas beyond one offsetting drilling unit from a productive well with a “reasonable certainty” test.
·
Require additional disclosures regarding the qualifications of the chief technical person who oversees the company’s overall reserve estimation process. Additionally, disclosures regarding internal controls over reserve estimation, as well as a report addressing the independence and qualifications of its reserves preparer or auditor will be mandatory.
We adopted the rules effective December 31, 2009.
The new rule does not allow for prior-year reserve information to be restated, so all information related to periods prior to 2009 is presented consistent with prior SEC rules for the estimation of proved reserves.
Internal Controls Over Reserves Estimates. Our reserves estimates are prepared internally by our Reservoir/Acquisitions Manager and our Reservoir Studies Manager in compliance with SEC definitions and guidance and in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering principles. Our Reservoir/Acquisitions Manager holds a Bachelor of Science in Petroleum Engineering and has over thirty (30) years of industry experience in property evaluations and reserves estimates preparation. Our Reservoir Studies Manager holds a Bachelor of Science and Master of Science in Petroleum Engineering and has over 37 years of industry experience in reservoir engineering, property evaluations, and reserves estimates preparation. Our reserves estimates are prepared by examination and evaluation of production data, production decline curves, reservoir pressure data, logs, geological data, and offset analogies. Our reserves estimates are reviewed and approved by our Operations Vice President and our President/Chief Executive Officer. Our Chief Financial Officer reviews the reserves estimates to assure compliance with SEC reporting requirements.
We engage third-party petroleum consulting firms to audit all of our reserves. See the Third-Party Reserves Audit report in exhibits.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves - Our reserve estimates as of December 31, 2009 include 43.4 million BOE as proved undeveloped reserves. As of December 31, 2008, our reserve estimates included 40.6 BOE as proved undeveloped reserves. Following is a description of the changes in our PUD reserves from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009.
Conversion of approximately 5.2 million BOE of reserve from PUD to PDP or PDBP through capital expenditures of approximately $58.4 million.
Downward revision of approximately 8.6 million BOE as a result of commodity price changes and revisions of estimates due to performance.
Recording of approximately 16.6 million BOE in new PUD reserves as a result of acquisitions and our continuing development of additional acreage.
Our proved reserves as of December 31, 2009 are summarized in the table below.
Estimated Costs Related to Conversion of Proved Undeveloped Reserves to Proved Developed Reserves
The following table indicates projected reserves that we currently estimate will be converted from proved undeveloped or proved developed non-producing to proved developed, as well as the estimated costs per year involved in such development.
Production
Our estimated average daily production for the month of December, 2009, is summarized below. These tables indicate the percentage of our estimated December 2009 average daily production of 7,254 Boe/d attributable to each state and to oil versus natural gas production.
Summary of Oil and Natural Gas Properties and Projects
Significant New Mexico Operations
East Hobbs San Andres Unit - Lea County, New Mexico. In May, 2004 we acquired an 82.24% working interest and a 67.60% net revenue interest in this lease. The property has been in continuous production since that time. “Net revenue interest” is the owner’s percentage share of the monthly income realized from the sale of a well’s produced oil and gas. The net revenue interest is a lesser number as compared to the working interest, due to the mineral owner royalty and other overriding royalties on the well. The lease contains approximately 920 acres, all held by production, on which there are 31 producing wells. We believe the property has additional potential through waterflooding. A waterflood operation is a method of secondary recovery in which water is injected into the reservoir formation to displace residual oil. The water from injection wells physically sweeps the displaced oil to adjacent production wells. These estimates are included in our estimates of PUD potential.
Humphrey Queen Unit - Lea County, New Mexico. We acquired a 100% working interest and a 75.08% net revenue interest in this mature waterflood in December, 2007. The property contains 16 producing wells and approximately 760 acres, all held by production. We believe the property can support activities to drill 12 additional PUD wells, which are included in our reserve estimates.
Langlie Mattix Queen Unit - Lea County, New Mexico. We acquired a 100% working interest and a 75.09% net revenue interest in this mature waterflood property in December, 2007. The property has 16 producing wells on approximately 1,040 acres, all held by production. We believe the property can support activity to drill 14 additional PUD wells, which are included in our reserve estimates.
South Leonard Queen Unit - Lea County, New Mexico. We acquired a 100% working interest and a 75.09% net revenue interest in this mature waterflood in December, 2007. The property contains seven producing wells on approximately 680 acres with all of the acreage being held by production. We believe the property can support activity to drill four additional PUD wells, which are included in our reserve estimates.
North Benson Queen Unit - Eddy County, New Mexico. We acquired a 100% working interest and a 69.44% net revenue interest in this mature waterflood property in October, 2003. The property has 27 producing wells and contains approximately 1,800 acres, all held by production. We have reactivated the waterflood by constructing a new water supply system, building new injection facilities, and returning previously idle water injection wells to service. We think the property can support workovers in existing wells to open additional zones and drilling 28 additional wells which are included as PUD in our reserve estimate.
Red Lake Unit - Eddy County, New Mexico. In October, 2007 we acquired a 100% working interest and an 80.56% net revenue interest in this property. The lease has 16 producing wells on approximately 1,090 acres, all held by production. We believe the property can support activity to drill three additional PUD wells, which are included in our reserve estimates.
Phillips Lea, Hale State, State 36 and Corbin 35 leases - Lea County, New Mexico. In June, 2008 we acquired a 100% working interest with net revenue interests ranging from 80.31% to 82.81% in these leases. The leases have 16 producing wells on approximately 800 acres, all held by production. We think the property can support workovers in existing wells to open new zones in existing wells and drilling 10 additional wells which are included as PUD in our reserve estimate.
Significant Texas Operations
Fuhrman Mascho leases - Andrews County, Texas. In December 2004 we acquired a 100% working interest and a 75% net revenue interest in these leases. Throughout 2005 through 2009 we acquired working and net revenue interests in additional producing leases and acquired additional undeveloped acreage in and around our Fuhrman Mascho leases. The working interests range from 20-100% and the net revenue interests range from 16-80%. In total, we now own 46,888 acres, with 35,246 acres developed and held by production and the remaining 11,642 acres being undeveloped. We believe the Fuhrman Mascho leases contain considerable remaining potential drilling. Our reserve estimate includes 941 PUD wells. Our reserve estimates include potential development expenditures.
Y6 lease - Fisher County, Texas. We acquired a 100% working interest and an 80% net revenue interest in this partially developed waterflood property in June, 2001. There are 15 producing wells on approximately 1,697 acres, which is held by production. We believe the property can support activity to drill four additional PUD wells, which are included in our reserve estimates.
Significant Oklahoma Operations
Ona Morrow Sand Unit - Cimarron and Texas Counties, Oklahoma. We acquired a 100% working interest and an 81.32% net revenue interest in this waterflood property in June, 2001. There are 13 producing wells on approximately 2,120 acres, which is held by production. We believe the property can support three additional PUD wells, which are included in our estimate of PUD.
Midwell, Appleby, Smaltz, and Hanes Leases - Cimarron County, Oklahoma. We acquired a 100% working interest and an 80% net revenue interest in these leases in September, 2002. The leases contain 11 wells on approximately 2,280 acres, which is held by production. We believe the leases contain PUD potential from waterflood operations and six PUD wells, which are included in our estimate of PUD. We began implementing the waterflood operations and will continue those efforts.
Acreage
The following table summarizes gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage at December 31, 2009 by region (net acreage is our percentage ownership of gross acreage). Acreage in which our interest is limited to royalty and overriding royalty interests is excluded.
Production History
The following table presents the historical information about our produced natural gas and oil volumes.
The average oil sales price amounts above are calculated by dividing revenue from oil sales by the volume of oil sold, in Bbl. The average gas sales price amounts above are calculated by dividing revenue from gas sales by the volume of gas sold, in Mcf. The total average sales price amounts are calculated by dividing total revenues by total volume sold, in Boe. The average production costs above are calculated by dividing production costs by total production in Boe.
Productive Wells
The following table presents our ownership at December 31, 2009, in productive oil and natural gas wells by region (a net well is our percentage ownership of a gross well).
Drilling Activity
The following table represents our drilling activity for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009:
As of December 31, 2009, we were in the process of drilling five wells with an additional fourteen wells in various stages of completion, all in Texas. While we have small working interest partners in three of these wells, we own the majority of the working interest; therefore this information is correct for both gross and net wells.
Cost Information
We conduct our oil and natural gas activities entirely in the United States. As noted previously in the table appearing under “Production History”, our average production costs, per Boe, were $7.34 in 2007, $7.63 in 2008 and $6.57 in 2009 and our average production taxes, per BOE, were $3.61 in 2007, $4.50 in 2008 and $2.73 in 2009. These amounts are calculated by dividing our total production costs or total production taxes by our total volume sold, in Boe.
Costs incurred for property acquisition, exploration and development activities during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009 are shown below.
(1) The amount shown for 2007 for acquisition of proved properties is net of proceeds received from the sale of our interest in the West San Andres property.
Reserve Quantity Information
Our estimates of proved reserves and related valuations were based on internal reports and audited by Williamson Petroleum Consultants, Inc. independent petroleum engineers. The estimates of proved reserves are inherently imprecise and are continually subject to revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors.
Our oil and natural gas reserves are attributable solely to properties within the United States. A summary of the changes in quantities of proved (developed and undeveloped) oil and natural gas reserves is shown below.
Our proved oil and natural gas reserves are shown below.
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows
Our standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and natural gas reserves and changes in the standardized measure as described below were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Future income tax expenses are calculated by applying appropriate year-end tax rates to future pre-tax net cash flows relating to proved oil and natural gas reserves, less the tax basis of properties involved. Future income tax expenses give effect to permanent differences, tax credits and loss carryforwards relating to the proved oil and natural gas reserves. Future net cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% annually to derive the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows. This calculation procedure does not necessarily result in an estimate of the fair market value or the present value of our oil and natural gas properties.
The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to the proved oil and natural gas reserves are shown below.
The changes in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to the proved oil and natural gas reserves are shown below.
Management’s Business Strategy Related to Properties
Our goal is to increase stockholder value by investing in oil and gas projects with attractive rates of return on capital employed. We plan to achieve this goal by exploiting and developing our existing oil and natural gas properties and pursuing acquisitions of additional properties. Specifically, we have focused, and plan to continue to focus, on the following:
Developing and Exploiting Existing Properties. We believe that there is significant value to be created by drilling the identified undeveloped opportunities on our properties. We own interests in a total of 58,092 gross (43,607 net) developed acres and operate essentially all of the net pre-tax PV10 value of our proved undeveloped reserves. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, we owned interests in approximately 13,172 gross undeveloped acres (9,879 net). We believe that our current and future cash flow will enable us to undertake the exploitation of our properties through additional drilling activities. We will closely manage our capital expenditures to our cash flow. As commodity prices change we will consider the resulting impact on our cash flow and adjust our capital expenditures accordingly, be it up or down.
Pursuing Profitable Acquisitions. We have historically pursued acquisitions of properties that we believe to have exploitation and development potential comparable to our existing inventory of drilling locations. We have developed and refined an acquisition program designed to increase reserves and complement our existing core properties. We have an experienced team of management and engineering professionals who identify and evaluate acquisition opportunities, negotiate and close purchases and manage acquired properties. While our emphasis in 2010 and beyond is anticipated to focus on the further development of our existing properties, we will continue to look for acquisition opportunities with existing cash flow from production and future development potential.
Controlling Costs through Efficient Operation of Existing Properties. We operate essentially 100% of the pre-tax PV10 value of our total proved reserves, which we believe enables us to better manage expenses, capital allocation and the decision-making processes related to our exploitation and exploration activities. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our oil and gas production costs per Boe averaged $6.57, our oil and gas production taxes per Boe averaged $2.73 and general and administrative costs averaged $5.68 per Boe produced.
Other Properties and Commitments
Our principal executive offices are in a company owned building in Tulsa, Oklahoma. This office building has approximately 16,000 square feet. Additionally, we own the building in Hobbs, New Mexico which serves as our primary field office. This office building has approximately 7,500 square feet. We also own an office building in Andrews, Texas for the operation of our wholly-owned subsidiary Arena Drilling Company and for use by additional Arena Resources field personnel. This office building has approximately 6,000 square feet. At December 31, 2009, we were expanding the office in Andrews by an additional 5,000 up to 11,000 square feet. Subsequent to year end the expansion was completed and the additional space will be used by Arena Resources field personnel. Lastly, we are currently leasing approximately 1,869 square feet of space in Midland, Texas. Our Midland office is maintained for the purchase of developed and undeveloped leaseholds and for land department support. We believe the office space will be adequate for our current operations as well as allowing for continued growth.
Item 3: