ITEM 2. RISK FACTORS
The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones our Company faces. Additional risks not presently known or currently considered insignificant may also impair our business operations in the future. Our business, financial condition and plan of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks. Furthermore, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to any of these risks.
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS:
There exists doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern
Our financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2008 disclose that there exists substantial doubt that the company will be able to continue as a going concern. The inclusion of this note in the financial statements underscores the fact that the company needs to either raise additional financing or become profitable in the short-term in order to continue operations. As further discussed below, if the company is not able to achieve its objectives or raise additional capital, it may be forced to suspend or cease operations.
We have experienced a history of losses
Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development activities related to our efforts to develop our technologies, and from associated marketing and administrative costs. On June 30, 2008 we had a working capital surplus of $700,504 and an accumulated deficit of $32,406,073.
Included in current liabilities is an amount of $40,000 due to a related party that carries no interest or fixed terms of repayment. Funds on hand, together with an operating loss, will not sustain operations for the next year. As a result, we will need to raise additional capital to sustain our operations. In order to become profitable, we will need to generate significant additional revenues to offset our cost of revenues, sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. We may not achieve or sustain our revenue or profit objectives and our losses may continue or increase in the future in which case you might lose your investment. If we are not able to fund our operations through product sales and investments by third parties, we will have to cease operations.
We may not be able to obtain additional financing when needed or on acceptable terms.
We may need to raise additional capital to sustain our operations or to pursue our acquisition strategy. We cannot assure you that any required additional financing will be available or, if it is, whether it will be on acceptable terms. Our inability to obtain any needed financing, or the terms on which it may be available, could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a result, we could have to suspend or cease our operations and you could lose your entire investment.
We have incurred substantial debt which could affect our ability to obtain additional funds and may increase our vulnerability to economic and/or business downturns.
On February 16, 2005, we entered into a Purchase Agreement with eighteen institutional and accredited investors under the terms of which we agreed to issue units consisting of an aggregate of $4,675,000 of our Company's 9.0% Senior Secured Convertible Notes, Series A (the "Series A Notes"), which are convertible into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $0.35 per share. Under the terms of the 9.0% Senior Secured Convertible Note, Series A, the Principal on the Note was to be paid to the Holder in twenty (20) equal monthly installments, with each payment equal to 5% of the principal amount, commencing on June 16, 2005 and continuing on the same day of each month thereafter on the tenth date immediately preceding the principal payment date. All payments of principal were to be made at our option in cash or, with ten (10) business day prior notice, in our common stock valued at 85% of the average closing bid price of our stock in the most recent five trading days prior to a valuation date. As of January 2007, the outstanding debt on the principal payment of the 9.0% Senior Secured Convertible Note, Series A was fully repaid.
On August 11, 2006, we entered into a Note and Warrant Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) providing for the sale by the Company of Series B Subordinated Secured Convertible Notes (the "Series B Notes") in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $3.6 million and Original Issue Discount Subordinated Secured Convertible Notes equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the aggregate principal amount of Series B Notes (the "OID Notes") (collectively, the "Notes") to certain institutional and accredited investors (the "Investors"). Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the Company also issued four year warrants to purchase shares of the Company's common stock in an amount equal to 37.5% of the number of common shares underlying the Series B Notes at $0.45 per share (the "Series Z Warrants") and 2.5% of the number of common shares underlying the Series B Notes at $0.65 per share (the "Series Y Warrants") (collectively, the "Warrants").
During the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company redeemed the Notes, originally due on February 11, 2009. Under an arrangement with a majority of the holders of the Notes, the Company also redeemed half of the associated Series Y and Series Z Warrants (collectively the “Warrants”) previously issued in August 2006 and November 2006 relating to the redeemed Notes. The total purchase price for the redemption of the Notes and half of the Warrants was $3.4 million. The remaining half of the Warrants that remain with the holders of the Notes will have its exercise prices reduced to and fixed at $0.11 per share, with no further ratchet or anti-dilution provisions. In connection with the redemption of the Notes, the Company received a $3.4 million secured loan facility from Imperium Master Fund, LTD (the “Investor”). The terms of the loan facility state that interest will be paid by the Company on the unpaid principal amount at an annual rate equal to 8.5%. It was the intention of the Company and the Investor to replace the secured loan facility with a comprehensive refinancing to facilitate a capital restructuring that will provide the Company with additional working capital and credit facilities. On September 24, 2007, the Company entered into a Securities Purchase and Loan Agreement (“SPL Agreement”) with the Investor for the sale of a 6% Original Issue Discount Senior Secured Convertible Note (the “Convertible Note”) in the amount of $4,708,900. The principal value and the gross proceeds of the Convertible Note is $4,000,000. The gross proceeds will be used to repay the secured loan facility, with the balance of funds to be used for working capital purposes. The Convertible Note matures on September 24, 2012 and the original principal amount is convertible into common shares of the Company at a conversion price of $0.11. The principal value will accrete to the value of the Convertible Note over a two year period and will subsequently accrue interest at 6%. Monthly installments of principal and interest will be payable commencing after the second year up to the maturity date. The SPL Agreement also provides the holder of the Convertible Note with a Warrant to purchase up to 20,276,190 shares of the Company’s outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis. On August 22, 2007, the Company issued to the holder of the Convertible Note a warrant to purchase up to five percent (5%) of the Company’s outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis. In addition, the SPL Agreement provides the Company with a $2,500,000 Working Capital Facility
As a result, we are subject to the risks associated with substantial indebtedness, including:
-
we are required to dedicate a portion of our cash flows from operations to pay debt service costs;
-
it may be more difficult and expensive to obtain additional funds through financing, if available at all;
-
we are more vulnerable to economic downturns and fluctuations in interest rates, less able to withstand competitive pressures and less flexible in reacting to changes in our industry and general economic conditions; and
-
if we default under any of our existing indebtedness or if our creditors demand payment of a portion or all of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient funds to make such payments.
If we default under our financing agreements, we may have to forfeit our rights to our assets.
We have pledged all of our assets, including the assets of our subsidiaries, as security to holders of our convertible debentures. A default under the financing agreement concluded with holders of our convertible debentures, if not waived or cured, would permit the holders of the convertible debentures to foreclose on the collateral and we could lose all our rights in the collateral, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business. As a result, we could have to suspend or cease our operations and you could lose your entire investment.
We may seek to make acquisitions that prove unsuccessful or strain or divert our resources.
We may seek to grow our business through acquisitions of similar businesses. Such acquisitions present risks that could materially adversely affect our business and financial performance, including:
-
the diversion of our management's attention from our everyday business activities;
-
the assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired business;
-
the contingent and latent risks associated with the past operations of, and other unanticipated problem arising in, the acquired business; and
-
the need to expand management, administration, and operational systems.
If we make such acquisitions we cannot predict whether:
-
we will be able to successfully integrate the operations of any new businesses into our business;
-
we will realize any anticipated benefits of completed acquisitions; or
-
there will be substantial unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions.
In addition, future acquisitions by us may result in:
-
potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities;
-
the incurrence of additional debt; and
-
the recognition of significant charges for depreciation and amortization related to goodwill and other intangible assets.
Although we have no present plans or intentions, we continuously evaluate potential acquisitions of similar businesses. However, we have not reached any agreement or arrangement with respect to any particular acquisition and we may not be able to complete any acquisitions on favorable terms or at all.
There may be undisclosed liabilities associated with our acquisitions.
In connection with any acquisition made by us, there may be liabilities that we fail to discover or are unable to discover including liabilities arising from non-compliance with laws and regulations by prior owners and for which we, as successor owners, may be responsible. Similarly, we may incur expenses to investigate the merits of future acquisitions that may never materialize, resulting in a potential charge.
We may not be able to develop or manage our internal growth.
Our growing existing businesses may strain our management, human resources and information systems. To manage our growth successfully, we will have to add managers and employees and update our operating, financial and other systems, procedures and controls. In addition, issues relating to new acquisitions may divert current management's attention from existing operations.
We are highly dependent on our executive management and other key employees.
We rely heavily on our executive management and key employees for providing services and for continued business development. We have employment agreements which contain non-competition and non-solicitation provisions with most of our executive managers and other key employees. Our business could be materially adversely affected if a number of our executive managers and other key employees were to leave us and if we were unable to enforce the non-competition and non-solicitation agreements or to attract and retain qualified replacements.
Some of our products and services are in the development stage, and may not be effective at a level sufficient to support a profitable business venture.
If our products or services are not effective at a level sufficient to support a profitable venture, we will be unable to create other marketable products and services, and we will have to cease some of our operations. About 60% of Avensys Inc.’s revenues depend on volume production of products sold by the Avensys Technologies division to a few large customers. These products are subject to competitive pressures and continuous improvement challenges. Variations in demand volume and specifications may lead to losses in economies of scale and/or decreased yields. ITF Labs revenues, which account for less than $2 million, are directly associated with prototypes and R&D products and are therefore subject to low yields and risky, potentially low market demand.
We can offer you no assurance that all of our products and services will be effective at a level sufficient to support a profitable business venture. If they are not, we will be unable to create marketable products, we will not generate sufficient revenues from our key operations, and we will have to reduce, suspend or cease key operations and you could lose your entire investment.
If we cannot deliver the features and functionality our customers demand, we will be unable to attract customers, and that will result in a loss of income and eventually a termination of our operations.
As a provider of fiber components and modules, our future success depends largely upon our ability to determine the features, and functionality our customers demand and to design and implement products that meet their needs in a cost efficient manner. Although we have often been a leader in introducing new products and technologies, maintaining that leadership while responding to downward pressures on price is an ongoing challenge. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully determine customer requirements or that our current or future products and services will adequately satisfy customer demands. If we cannot meet our customers' demands, we will not generate revenues from this business and we may have to cease or suspend key operations.
Our business depends on the protection of its intellectual property and proprietary information.
We rely on a combination of trade secret and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and patent and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights in our products and technology. These measures may not be adequate to protect our trade secrets and proprietary technology. As a result, unauthorized third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. To enforce and defend our intellectual property rights and our proprietary rights, we may have to engage in litigation, either domestically or in other countries, and we could face substantial costs and diversion of resources, including management’s attention, regardless of the outcome of that litigation. Our attempts to enforce our intellectual property rights may not be successful, may result in royalties that are less than the cost of such enforcement efforts or may result in the loss of the intellectual property altogether. Furthermore, we may not have adequate funds available to prosecute actions to protect or defend our proprietary rights, in which case those using our proprietary rights may continue to do so in the future. Even if we succeeded in protecting our intellectual property, others may independently develop similar technologies or products that do not infringe on our intellectual property.
Our registered trademarks may not provide us with adequate protection.
Third parties may appropriate our trademarks, and that may reduce our competitive edge and cause our revenues to decrease. Even though we have trademarks, there is no assurance that third parties may not infringe on our trademarks. In order to protect our trademark rights, we may have to file lawsuits and obtain injunctions, which would likely be expensive and divert our resources. If we do that, we will have to spend large sums of money for legal fees in order to obtain the injunctions. Even if we obtain the injunctions, there is no assurance that those infringing on our trademarks will comply with the injunctions. Furthermore, we may not have adequate funds available to prosecute actions to protect or to defend our trademarks, in which case those infringing on our trademarks could continue to do so in the future.
Third parties may claim that our current or future products or services infringe their proprietary rights or assert other claims against us.
Any claims filed against us alleging that we infringe third-party proprietary rights could result in significant expenses or restrictions on our ability to provide our products and services. As the number of entrants into our market increases, the possibility of an intellectual property or other claim against us grows. Any intellectual property or other claim, with or without merit, would be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management’s attention from focusing on our core business. As a result of such a dispute, we may have to pay damages, incur substantial legal fees, develop costly non-infringing technology, if possible, or enter into license agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. As a result, our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. No such claims have been filed against us at this time.
Competitive conditions could materially adversely affect our businesses.
The markets in which we do, and intend to do business are highly competitive. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends, in part, upon our ability to develop and commercialize efficient and effective products based on our technologies. We compete against established companies as well as numerous independently owned small businesses. Many of our competitors are capable of developing products based on similar technology, have developed and are capable of continuing to develop products based on other technologies, which are or may be competitive with our products and technologies. In all market segments in which we operate, there are many competitors, some of which are significantly larger, and some of which have access to much more important resources or capital than us, or have better reputations among potential customers in the delivery of particular services or products. Our competitors may succeed in developing competing products and technologies that are more effective than our products and technologies, which may render our existing and new products or technology uncompetitive, uneconomical or obsolete.
We may be exposed to liability claims if products based on our technologies are marketed and sold.
We have general liability insurance coverage for CAD$5,000,000. However, if a judgment is rendered against us in excess of the amount of our coverage, we may have to cease operations. If we are sued for any reason, we will have to rely on our liability insurance to pay any judgment rendered against us. Although we maintain a general liability insurance of CAD$5,000,000, we cannot provide any assurance that:
- our insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities if a product or a service that we provide causes harm or fails to perform as promised;
- adequate liability insurance will continue to be available in the future; or
- our insurance can be maintained on acceptable terms.
The obligation to pay any liability claim in excess of whatever insurance we are able to obtain would increase our expenses and could greatly reduce our assets or cause us to cease operations. If a judgment is rendered against us for any amount over our coverage of CAD$5,000,000, we may have to cease operations.
Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could result in increased product costs and operating expenses.
We have suppliers that are located outside Canada and the U.S. The functional currency of our operating subsidiary is the Canadian dollar and we report our results in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the value of Canadian and U.S. dollars are difficult to predict and can cause us to incur currency exchange costs. Although, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our future operating results any material changes could cause our operating results to be materially adversely affected.
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR COMMON STOCK:
The market of our common stock is limited.
The market for our common stock being limited, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock. There is currently only a limited trading market for our common stock. Our common stock trades on the Bulletin Board operated by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. under the symbol "AVNY." Trading volume of OTC Bulletin Board stocks has been historically lower and more volatile than stocks traded on an exchange. As a result, you may not be able to resell your securities in open market transactions.
Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock could cause our stock price to fall.
As of October 17, 2008, 99,086,152 shares of our common stock were outstanding, 91,864,886 of which were freely tradable and 7,221,266 of which were restricted as a result of securities laws. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause the price of our securities to fall and could impair our ability to raise capital by selling additional securities. The terms on which we could obtain additional capital during the life of the options and warrants may be adversely affected, and it should be expected that the holders of the options and warrants would exercise or convert them at a time when we would be able to obtain equity capital on terms more favorable than those provided for by such convertible securities. As a result, any issuance of additional shares of common stock may cause our current shareholders to suffer significant dilution which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.
Our common stock being subject to penny stock rules, the liquidity of your investment may be restricted.
Our common stock is now and may continue to be in the future subject to the penny stock rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These rules regulate broker/dealer practices for transactions in "penny stocks." Penny stocks are generally equity securities with a price of less than $5.00. The penny stock rules require broker/dealers to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker/dealer must also provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker/dealer and its salesperson and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations and the broker/dealer and salesperson compensation information must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to completing the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer's confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction, the broker and/or dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These additional penny stock disclosure requirements are burdensome and may reduce the trading activity in the market for our common stock. As long as the common stock is subject to the penny stock rules, holders of our common stock may find it more difficult to sell their securities.
There are a large number of outstanding warrants issued that if exercised may be available for future sale and the sale of these shares may depress the market price of our common stock.
As of October 17, 2008 we had 99,086,152 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. There exist warrants to purchase 44,125,399 shares of common stock at an exercise price ranging between $0.00001 and $0.70. The sale of these shares may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.
Our operating results in future periods may vary from quarter to quarter, and as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of our investors and analysts, which may cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline.
As a manufacturer of fiber-optic components and modules, our contract flow is sometimes unpredictable, and to the extent that we do not generate new business upon completion of existing contracts, our revenue will decline. Also, our facilities may become under utilized, thus increasing our overhead cost burden. Due to these factors, our revenue and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Due to these risks, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance.
Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting.
Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. We are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires increased control over financial reporting requirements, including annual management assessments of the effectiveness of such internal controls and we will be required to provide a report by our independent certified public accounting firm addressing these assessments. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment, regardless of whether we are required to maintain such controls, could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.
ITEM 3.