ITEM 2.	DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
Our properties consist of petroleum rights, seismic data and computer analyses acquired as follows:
Effective May 1, 2000 the Israeli government awarded us the three-year 28,800-acre "Ma'anit License" (#298) to conduct petroleum exploration activities (the dark shaded area in the center of the map shown below).
In the area covered by the license there were located two abandoned exploratory wells, Ma'anit #1 in the west and Har Amir #1 in the east, each drilled into Middle Jurassic Age formations (approximately 160 million years old) to depths of approximately 2,300 meters (7,550 feet). From May 2000 until May 2001, we conducted extensive geophysical and geological operations, including interpreting and mapping approximately 250 kilometers of previously shot seismic lines, reprocessing 70 kilometers of existing seismic, and shooting 11 kilometers of new seismic. As a result, we began to intensely focus on an exploration target that looked very promising in the Upper Triassic Age formations (approximately 200 million years old) under the Ma'anit License and the adjacent area. In interpreting the seismic, we identified a structural feature associated with a basement to Paleozoic Age structural high existing roughly parallel to the current coast of Israel. The concept is that this geological feature became the underlying platform for what appeared to be reefal buildups during the Triassic Age. These apparent reefal structures comprised the exploratory trend and could provide suitable reservoirs for the accumulation and storage of hydrocarbons (either gas or oil) in commercial quantities.
Based on our preliminary work, we applied for and received effective May 1, 2001 an eighteen-month, 137,250-acre Preliminary Permit with Priority Rights. The permit (#176) named "Joseph" bounded the Ma'anit License on three sides and provided us the opportunity to determine the direction of our exploration.
In 2001, we retained independent consulting geologists and geophysicists who reviewed the seismic data on the Ma'anit License area and helped us interpret the data as representative of a barrier reef system bounding a subsiding back reef basin (a sill basin). This geologic interpretation was first postulated by Superior Oil Company in a study prepared for the Israeli National Oil Company in 1980 that was made available to Zion in early 2002. It was further substantiated in early 2002 by our review of documents in the files of the Geophysical Institute of Israel (and a related 2002 academic paper) pertaining to the Asher-Atlit # 1 well (drilled in 1983 and located 13 miles northwest of the Ma'anit #1) where rock samples from the Upper Triassic were described as reefal formation of the same type found in the Dolomite Alps of Southern Europe (Austria and Northern Italy).
With the assistance and support of the Geophysical Institute of Israel, we intensified our exploration efforts in 2001 and 2002, incorporating an additional 250 kilometers of seismic data into the interpretation and reprocessing another 60 kilometers of existing seismic data. For most of 2002, we maintained a temporary exploration office at the Institute and used its Landmark/Paradigm software at a workstation there to analyze seismic lines and draw a complete series of geologic maps of the different formations.
In 2002, we also conducted a new seismic survey on the Joseph Permit area, acquiring an additional 21 kilometers of seismic data for the expressed purpose of correlating nine of the existing lines and enhancing our ability to interpret those lines. Based upon our interpretation of that line and resulting enhanced interpretation of the existing lines, we revised our maps and selected drilling sites for the first exploratory wells on each of two prospects - the Ma'anit Prospect on the Ma'anit License area and the Joseph Prospect on the Joseph Permit area. In October 2002, we submitted a detailed prospect description to the Israeli Oil Commissioner. Our report summarized our exploration and computer analysis studies and findings, and presented two fully developed drilling prospects. With the report, we submitted a request to exercise our
priority rights under the Joseph Permit by incorporating the southern portion of the Joseph Permit area into the Ma'anit License (to be renamed the Ma'anit - Joseph License) and extending the term of the Ma'anit License through April 30, 2005. During November and December 2002, we updated and revised our report as additional analysis was completed at the workstation. This updated report, dated January 2003, was submitted to the Oil Commissioner and is currently on file with the Israel Geological Institute. Although the report focused primarily on Triassic Age sediments, it also described lower Paleozoic prospect opportunities that we planned to explore in the future.
Following approval by the Petroleum Commission of the State of Israel, the Minister of National Infrastructures (the "Minister"), in February 2003, granted, as of January 1, 2003, Zion's application to consolidate its existing petroleum rights into the Ma'anit-Joseph License, covering a combined area of approximately 95,800 acres, and to extend the term of the license through April 30, 2005. Approximately 70,000 acres in the Joseph Permit and Ma'anit License areas were voluntarily released back to the State of Israel. This allowed us to request consolidation of our remaining rights into a single license area not exceeding the statutory maximum of 100,000 acres. The license maintained its original issue date of May 1, 2000 (for grandfather rights purposes in case of any fiscal regime changes).
With the commencement on April 10, 2005 of our reentry and deepening of the Ma'anit #1 well, the Petroleum Commissioner extended the term of our Ma'anit-Joseph license through April 30, 2007. Maintenance of the license requires payment of an annual license fee of approximately $80,000, which has been paid through April 30, 2007.
Based on our ongoing geological work on our license and particularly on the areas in the southern portion of the license on and adjacent to our Joseph Prospect in contemplation of developing the prospect for drilling, in May 2005, we submitted an application to the Petroleum Commissioner to increase the acreage subject to our license by the addition of approximately 12,300 dunam (approx. 3,039 acres) at the south-east corner of the license, an area believed to contain an extension of the Joseph Prospect. On August 1, 2005, our application was approved and the lands subject of the Ma'anit-Joseph License were expanded by the addition of 9,300 dunam (approx. 2,300 acres) at the south-east corner of the license.
During the period April-November 2005, in accordance with the Ma'anit-Joseph License's work program, we deepened the Ma'anit #1 well to a depth of 4,740 meters (15,482 feet) in the Lower Triassic and performed required tests. We have since prepared and submitted a completion report of operations on and results of the well to the Petroleum Commissioner in accordance with the requirements of the Petroleum Law. Concurrently, as required by the work program, we have submitted to the Petroleum Commissioner a proposed work program for the remaining term of the license which was approved on March 15, 2006. This program provides that no later than March 1, 2007, we re-enter the Ma'anit #1 or commence the drilling of a new well to a depth of at least 4,400 meters (14,371 feet).
In addition to the completion report and work program proposal, we prepared and submitted in December 2005 to the Petroleum Commissioner a revised prospect description (the "2005 Prospect Description") presenting our findings and analysis of the results of the Ma'anit #1 and additional exploratory work and analysis performed since the submission of the original Prospect Description in October 2002, as updated in January 2003. While concentrating on the results of the Ma'anit #1 well and Ma'anit structure discovered by the Ma'anit #1 and plans to further explore, appraise and develop the Ma'anit structure, the 2005 Prospect Description also discusses other Triassic Age opportunities, including a possible Triassic reefal opportunities in the southern portion of the license area, the Joseph and Joseph East prospects, and prospect opportunities in the lower Permian (Paleozoic age) structures that we are also planning to explore.
In May 2005, we applied for a preliminary permit with priority rights to conduct exploration activities on areas covering approximately 500,000 dunam (approx. 124,000 acres) abutting our Ma'anit-Joseph License and lying to its north and west in order to continue our exploration of the exploratory trend we have developed under the Ma'anit License and Joseph Permit areas. In applying for the new permit, we proposed a two-staged program of geological and geophysical work extending over an 18 month period at a total budget (for both stages) of approximately $325,000 aimed at developing a drillable prospect in the permit area.
On August 1, 2005, we were granted Preliminary Permit No. 186/Asher with Priority Rights for an area covering 490,000 dunam (approx. 121,100 acres) abutting on and lying to the north and west of the Ma'anit-Joseph License. The permit covers lands on the Israeli coastal plain and the Mt. Carmel range stretching north to the outskirts of Haifa. The permit is for a period of 18 months terminating on January 31, 2007 and is subject to a work program, with an estimated cost of $325,000, which requires us to perform geological and geophysical work, including the reprocessing and analysis of existing seismic and geologic data, the acquisition and interpretation of new seismic data, preparation of summary reports and maps and submission of a drilling prospect.
Since September 2005, and in connection with the work program requirements for the Asher Permit and continuing exploration of our license area, we reprocessed approximately 200 kilometers of seismic lines and have used the data to begin detailed mapping of a number of prospect leads. The graphic above shows the permit and license areas, seismic lines in the areas and the general location of the prospect leads.
In accordance with the Asher Permit work program, on May 2, 2006 we submitted a summary geological report and prospect presentation (the "Asher Report") reflecting the exploration work under the Asher Permit during the first 9 months of the Permit, and including the preliminary presentation of a drilling prospect. Following review of the Asher Report with the Commissioner, on May 9, we requested an amendment of the work program for the second 9 months of the Asher Permit taking into account the results as presented in the Asher Report and the current operational circumstances in Israel, which revised work program was estimated at a total cost of $265,000, approximately $60,000 less than the estimated cost of the original work program.
On May 16, 2006, the Commissioner approved our request and amended the Permit's work program accordingly, which program was further amended at our request on August 13, 2006.
Declaration of a commercial discovery on the Ma'anit-Joseph License prior to the end of the license term, as may in certain circumstances be extended, will entitle us to receive a 30-year lease (extendable on certain conditions for an additional 20 years) subject to compliance with a field development work program and production. If at the license's currently set termination date, April 30, 2007, we are in the process of drilling, testing or completing a well under an approved work program, it is the policy of the Petroleum Commissioner to grant a de facto extension of the license through the completion of operations and for a sufficient period thereafter to permit analysis of the results of the well.
As concerns the Asher Permit, upon the satisfactory performance of the work program, as may be amended, and the submission to the Petroleum Commissioner of an acceptable drilling prospect, we will have a priority right for the grant of an exploration license for a period of up to seven years on a portion of the Asher Permit area not to exceed 400,000 dunam (approximately 98,800 acres), subject to our meeting the requirements of the Petroleum Law.
If we do not comply with the license's or the permit's work program, the Commissioner may issue a notice to us requiring that we cure the default within 60 days of the giving of the notice, together with a warning that failure to comply within the 60-day cure period may entail cancellation of the Ma'anit-Joseph License or the Asher Permit, as relevant. If the license or permit is cancelled following such notice, we may, within 30 days of the date we received notice of the Commissioner's decision, appeal such cancellation to the Minister of National Infrastructures. Neither the license nor the permit shall be cancelled until the Minister has ruled on the appeal.
The surface rights to the drill site from which we drilled the Ma'anit #1 are held under long-term lease by Kibbutz Ma'anit. The rights are owned by the State of Israel and administered by the Israel Lands Authority. To enter and use the drillsite, in February 2005, we entered into an agreement with Kibbutz Ma'anit to use the necessary lands through August 31, 2005 (the period estimated as required for drilling and testing of the Ma'anit #1 well). This agreement was extended through September 30, 2005. We reached an agreement with the Kibbutz extending our right to enter and use the drill site through the termination of the Ma'anit-Joseph License, currently April 30, 2007, for a monthly fee of $1,500. Agreement of the Israel Lands Authority for the use of the surface rights is also required, which under the Petroleum Law the Authority is required to provide. It is expected that this agreement will be received prior to the recommencement of operations on the Ma'anit #1 well.
We lease approximately 3,600 square feet of office space in Dallas under a lease which expires October 31, 2008, but which may be terminated effective October 31, 2006 with an early termination payment. The monthly rental cost is $4,104, $4,262 and $4,262 for each of the twelve-month periods ending October 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008 respectively.
We lease approximately 4,000 square feet of office space in Caesarea Industrial Park, Israel through January 31, 2007, subject to our right to extend the lease on the same terms for two additional six month periods through January 31, 2008. The monthly rental cost is $2,800.
Drilling Operations
On December 29, 2004, Zion signed a drilling contract with Lapidoth Israel Oil Prospectors Corp., Inc. (the "contractor") for the reentry and drilling of the Ma'anit #1 well on Zion's Ma'anit-Joseph License to a depth of between 4,000 and 5,000 meters. The contract, based in large part on the International Association of Drilling Contractor 1998 - Form Daywork Drilling Contract - U.S., provided for the well to be drilled on a daywork basis with payment to the contractor at the rate of $14,000 per drilling day, and other scheduled rates for non-operating days. Following the preparation of the drillsite, Lapidoth commenced mobilization of the rig to the site in mid-March 2005. On April 10, 2005, following inspection of the rig by us, the Ma'anit #1 well was reentered and operations to deepen the well to the Mohilla formation as required under the License were commenced. On July 14, we reached our total depth of 15,482 feet and then commenced an attempt to complete the well. After significant expenditure of time and money, we temporarily abandoned the completion attempt on November 4, 2005 and released the rig.
To assist us in drilling, analyzing, testing and assessing the Ma'anit #1 well, in February 2005, we retained the services of a consulting geologist, Stephen E. Pierce, and a drilling superintendent, Stacy Allen Cude, each of whom has substantial experience with major oil and gas exploration companies in projects similar to the company's Joseph Project and wells similar to the Ma'anit #1 well. Mr. Pierce currently serves as our exploration manager on a full time basis and Mr. Cude continues to assist us as a consultant in planning the drilling of our next well. Their resumes follow:
Stephen E. Pierce
was retained as our consulting geologist for the drilling of the Ma'anit #1 and subsequent exploration and development in February 2005, and joined us on a full-time basis in September 2005. From 1995-2005, Mr. Pierce served as project geologist for Murfin Drilling Co. in the Caribbean, primarily in the Dominican Republic. For the period of 1992-1995, Mr. Pierce was consulting geologist for several small independent companies, including Petrolera Once of Dominican Republic, Century Guyana, Ltd. Of Guyana, and Hydrocarbons International of Colombia. He also worked as consulting geologist for Dames and Moore in Texas, Wyoming, Costa Rica and Mexico during this time, as well as doing independent consulting work in Panola and Shelby Counties in East Texas. From 1985-1992, he acted as senior geological advisor for Mobil Oil Corporation, and from 1980-1985, he worked as senior geologist for Superior Oil Co. He served as senior geologist in Pakistan for AMOCO from 1979-1980 and as geologist for UNOCAL from 1974-1979. Mr. Pierce received his M.S. in geology from San Diego State University in 1974 and his B.S. in geology from California State University in 1971. Prior to this, he was an aerographer for the United States Navy from 1961-1965. Mr. Pierce holds the title of Professional Geologist with the State of Wyoming and holds memberships with the American Association of Petroleum Geologists and the American Institute of Professional Geologists.
Stacy Allen Cude
was retained as our drilling manager for the drilling of the Ma'anit #1 well and the planning of our next well. Mr. Cude is an independent drilling consultant and owner of Cude Petroleum, a company he started in 1997. Prior to establishing Cude Petroleum, he was owner of Computer Creations in College Station, TX for two years. From 1980 to 1994, he held the position of drilling supervisor with Exxon Company, USA in Houston, TX. He attended numerous drilling-related schools and instructional programs from 1980-1994. He also attended Texas A&M University from 1974-1977 and majored in economics. Mr. Cude has been a member of several professional societies, including Delta Sigma Pi Fraternity from 1974-1977, the National Association of Corrosion Engineers from 1986-1994, and the National Christian Counselors Association from 1989 to the present.
General Operating Conditions
Land in Israel may be privately owned or owned by the State of Israel. The rights to enter upon and use the surface of the land (the "surface rights") originate from the owner, but may be leased out long term for many different purposes including residential, industrial, commercial, agricultural, pastoral, recreational, etc. All minerals lying under the land are owned by the State of Israel and administered by the government through the Ministry of National Infrastructures.
The holder of the surface rights can charge a fee or rental to enter upon the land in order to conduct exploratory drilling and production activities. The basis for negotiation of the fee is typically the market value of the rights to enter and use the lands for the required period of use. If the holder of surface rights refuses to lease the rights to us on reasonable terms, so that we are prohibited from conducting exploration and production activities in an economically feasible manner, we have the right to demand that the Israeli government exercise eminent domain to acquire the required surface rights and lease them to us. If the government is required to exercise its right of eminent domain, all costs incurred by the government in acquiring the rights will be borne by us. Surface rights necessary to conduct drilling operations in connection with the reentry and deepening of the Ma'anit #1 well were acquired from Kibbutz Ma'anit for the period through September 30, 2005. An agreement has been reached with the Kibbutz for continued use of the surface rights through the termination of the license, currently April 30, 2007. Agreement of the Israel Lands Authority is also required, which, under the terms of the Petroleum Law, it is required to give. We expect to receive this agreement before commencement of any further operations on the Ma'anit #1 well.
ITEM 3.