Item 2.
Properties
Petroleum Industry in Kazakhstan
Kazakhstan was one of 15 independent republics that comprised the former Soviet Union. After gaining independence in 1991, it joined with Russia and several other former Soviet republics in the Confederation of Independent States, a union of economic and political cooperation. Kazakhstan is an area of significant investment activity for the international oil and gas industry. Based upon publicly available information, Kazakhstan’s proved reserves rank it among the top 15 countries in the world, with over 250 producing oil fields and 20 billion barrels of proved reserves. Its current production is approximately 1.3 million barrels of oil per day, of which approximately 85% is exported.
Regulation of the oil and gas industry in Kazakhstan has been codified in the Law of Petroleum, which sets out the conduct of the oil and gas industry and the roles of participants, both private and governmental. The industry is regulated in Kazakhstan by the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources (“MEMR”), which administers all contracts, licenses and investment programs.
The national oil company, Kazmunaigas, has been through several stages of consolidation. The Kazakhstan government has been in the process of merging the various regional governmental companies, which previously handled the extraction and transportation sectors of the industry, into one consolidated entity to eliminate redundant bureaucracy and provide for a more efficient management of the country’s natural resources. This consolidated entity maintains a direct ownership interest on behalf of the Kazakhstan government in most of the large oil field development projects in Kazakhstan as well as sole ownership and operation of many of the interconnecting oil and gas pipeline systems. However, governmental ownership or participation in exploration and development projects is not required, and the Kazakhstan government has no ownership interest in the South Alibek Field.
Acquisition of the South Alibek Field
In May 1999, we engaged Kornerstone Investment Group, Ltd. (“Kornerstone”) to identify and assist in the acquisition of oil and gas properties in Kazakhstan and elsewhere in the Caspian Sea region. Since we had not received any significant funding at that time, the consulting agreement with Kornerstone provided that Kornerstone’s compensation would be in the form of a 10% carried working interest (which we reacquired from Kornerstone in January 2006) in all properties shown to us and in which we acquired an interest. The controlling shareholder of Kornerstone is a citizen of Kazakhstan who is involved in oil and gas production and other business endeavors. This individual is also currently employed on a part-time basis as a consultant and manager of Caspi Neft.
In early 2000, Kornerstone identified an opportunity in Kazakhstan known as the South Alibek License 1557, which covered what is now known as the South Alibek Field. The adjacent Alibekmola Field had been discovered in 1980 by a regional exploration unit of the Soviet Ministry of Geology. A total of 31 wells had been drilled in the Alibekmola Field to delineate the oil bearing reservoirs and structure of the field. This delineation work continued following the breakup of the Soviet Union.
The South Alibek Field was first identified by an Alibekmola Field delineation well, known as Alibekmola 29, drilled by a geological association of the Kazakhstan government. It was determined to be in a separate fault block adjacent to the Alibekmola Field, and in 1996 produced flowing oil from several intervals in the Middle-Lower Carboniferous (KT2) reservoirs during well testing. Due to lack of funds for further drilling, the area was offered for public tender and was awarded in the tender to a subsidiary of AIL Alpha Corporation, Ltd. License 1557 was granted to the subsidiary in April 1999. In March 2000, we acquired this subsidiary. Subsequent work by us has resulted in this license area being designated as the South Alibek Field.
License and Exploration Contract
We signed an exploration contract with the Kazakhstan government in March 2000. The contract, whose original term extended to April 2005 with two two-year extensions, required us to make total capital expenditures of approximately $18.0 million. In April 2004, we were granted the first of these two-year extensions, through April 2007. In connection with this extension, we agreed to an additional work program commitment of $30.5 million. As of December 31, 2005, we had satisfied these capital expenditure commitments. Pursuant to the exploration contract, we can produce wells under a test program, provided we make 2% royalty payments (based on production) to the Kazakhstan government. We intend to apply for the next two-year extension to continue the exploration of the license area and expand the South Alibek Field before the existing exploration contract term expires.
Production Contract
Under our exploration contract and the Law of Petroleum, we hold the exclusive right to negotiate and execute a production contract with the MEMR in the event of a commercial discovery in the license area, and the government is required to conduct these negotiations. In December 2004, the State Committee on Reserves (“SCR”) approved commercial reserves for development and exploitation in the South Alibek Field. On this basis, the MEMR granted us the exclusive right to execute a long-term production contract in June 2005. We concluded negotiations of the final commercial and legal terms of the contract in September 2005, when the working group of the MEMR formally approved the draft production contract. The final draft was then circulated to the relevant governmental ministries and committees for their formal acceptance prior to contract execution. In the course of this process, several of these governmental bodies requested additional changes to the contract, most of which we successfully negotiated and included in the written contract.
As of March 10, 2006, approval of one remaining government ministry was still pending. Once this final approval is obtained, the production contract will be signed by the prime minister, at which time it will enter into
effect. We believe that this approval will be obtained and the production contract signed during the first half of 2006. The terms of the production contract establish the royalty and other payments due to the government in connection with our production of oil and gas. A bonus payment of $0.6 million will be required upon execution, based on the SCR reserves audit approving the commercial discovery, which defined the initial production area of 3,500 acres, or about 25% of the total area under license. If additional area is added on the basis of successful exploratory drilling, additional bonus payments would be assessed at a rate of 0.1% of the recoverable reserves added. The contract will also allow the government to recover approximately $4.7 million of historical exploration costs incurred before privatization out of future revenues beginning in January 2007 at a rate of approximately $50,000 per quarter.
The production contract is tax and royalty based. Under this financial arrangement, we will pay 100% of the development and operating costs and will be entitled to receive 100% of the revenues from the Field, subject to a royalty based on production from the Field and corporate income taxes. The royalty is a sliding scale based on annual production, ranging from 2% to 2.5% for production up to approximately 60,000 barrels per day. Corporate income taxes in Kazakhstan vary from 30% to 40%. Additionally, there is an excess profit tax on oil and gas production which can vary from 15% to 60% based on the ratio of net income to deductions. These taxes can significantly affect the economics of the project. The government may also require that we make available, if requested, up to 20% of our production to local refineries at domestic market prices. We would expect these prices to be lower than prices we would receive in the export market. However, our transportation costs would likely be lower as well. Most of the smaller producers in the region are not currently being required to sell into the domestic market and we do not expect this to change.
Overview of Regional Geology
The South Alibek Field is located in a fairway of large fields in northwestern Kazakhstan within the prolific Pre-Caspian Basin. Within 20 miles of the South Alibek Field are three giant producing fields with resources estimated between 500 million to 1 billion barrels each: the Kenkiyak and Zhanazhol Fields and the immediately adjacent Alibekmola Field. Production from the area’s carbonate reservoirs was first established in the 1950s, before the area was limited to military use and closed to oil and gas activity for 20 years. The Zhanazhol Field was the first to be discovered following the release of some of the area to exploration in the 1970s, and is now producing from the Upper-Middle Carboniferous (KT1) and Middle-Lower Carboniferous (KT2) reservoirs. The Alibekmola Field was discovered in the 1980s as additional areas were released, with production tests and reserves in both the KT1 and KT2 reservoirs. South Alibek was identified by the last well drilled during the delineation of Alibekmola following the breakup of the Soviet Union and independence of Kazakhstan. Development of these fields began after 2000.
The KT1 and KT2 reservoirs were deposited throughout the Middle and Late Carboniferous periods and into the Early Permian as a basin-wide and massive carbonate platform in the shallow waters of the ancient Uralian paleo-ocean on the southeastern boundary of the East European Plate. Regional closing of the ocean during the Permian period created a restricted sea that makes up the Pre-Caspian Basin. Prolific oil field trends are established in the southern half and northern margins of this Basin, with the South Alibek Field located on the southeastern margin of the Basin on the Zharamys Uplift. The carbonate fields lying within the Pre-Caspian Basin, including the Devonian carbonates which were deposited earlier, account for approximately 75% of Kazakhstan’s oil reserves and production. These fields are projected to ultimately contain over 40.0 billion barrels of recoverable reserves, and include two super-giant fields: Tengiz, which is estimated to have 9.0 billion barrels of recoverable reserves; and Kashagan, which is estimated to have 13.0 billion barrels of recoverable reserves.
The tectonic history specific to the Zhanazhol, Alibekmola and South Alibek Fields area was extensively studied by Soviet scientists during the last four decades of the Soviet era. The carbonates were deposited on a stable block removed from the influence of the Ural Mountain building processes to the northeast. Soviet geologists speculated the block was significantly closer to Tengiz at that time than it is today. The movement of
the block to the northeast, of up to 450 miles, and the later folding and thrust faulting, began in the Middle Permian through the Late Triassic period. This faulting created the northeast-southwest trending enechalon structures that characterize these fields and provides the trap for oil and gas. The main defining thrust faults are generally oriented in a north-south direction, with a pattern of small stress transfer crossfaulting and fracturing that can enhance the fracture characteristics of the carbonate reservoirs. At present day, the platform trends southwest to northeast over an area approximately 125 miles long and 50 miles wide. It is bounded to the north by a major fault which separates this area from the Urals western fold and thrust belt.
Zhanazhol, Alibekmola and South Alibek Fields are ideally situated for favorable migration of hydrocarbons. The source for the oil and gas was provided by three source rocks, Devonian through Carboniferous in age, with the filling of the structures beginning at the end of the Permian with peaks of generation at the end of the Triassic and end of the Jurassic and with one source rock believed to be generating today.
Field Geology
The South Alibek Field is immediately adjacent to the producing Alibekmola Field. Structurally it has three-way dip closure and is bounded and separated from Alibekmola on the east by a major north-south thrust fault. The Field is up to 1,000 feet lower than the Alibekmola Field and has a lower oil-water contact established from testing of the Alibekmola 29 well. The Zhanazhol Field lies 10 miles along the regional structural trend to the south. The East Zhagabulak Field is on the northwest corner of the South Alibek license area.
The KT1 and KT2 are the primary oil bearing reservoirs in all four fields, all of which have established production in the KT2. The KT1 is produced in the Zhanazhol Field. It has been found productive by testing in the Alibekmola and East Zhagabulak Fields, but has not been developed in those fields or in South Alibek. Evaluation of field data indicates reservoir properties of the KT1 and KT2 are very similar in the Alibekmola and South Alibek Fields. Production from the Zhanazhol Field is estimated to be in excess of 100,000 barrels of oil per day, and from the Alibekmola Field, which is still in the early phases of development, over 30,000 barrels of oil per day.
Within the South Alibek Field, the KT1 and KT2 reservoirs are porous and fractured carbonates of shallow marine-terriginous origin. The porosity is both primary and secondary, by diagenesis to dolomite and by fracturing. Porosity averages between 9-10% for both the KT1 and KT2, and is estimated as high as 15% in the KT2 and 20% in the KT1 from core analysis of open porosity. Permeability estimates range between 5mD to 300mD. The identified net thickness of the oil bearing reservoir averages approximately 200 feet for both the KT1 and KT2. The KT2 reservoir is a series of massive stacked platform carbonates, subdivided into five stratigraphically defined zones, totalling more than 3,000 feet thick, with the top at approximately 10,500 feet in depth. The shallower KT1 is subdivided into three zones: the lowest zone is a series of massive stacked platform carbonates and the shallower zones are more characteristic of the back-stepping progradational nature of the carbonate platform The top of the KT1 reservoir is at a depth of approximately 7,000 feet, and is about 2,300 feet thick.
We have conducted an extensive evaluation of the information available for the South Alibek Field and adjacent fields, including vintage and recent logging, core, pressure and testing data, and 2D and 3D seismic data to which we have rights. Based on our evaluation, we believe that the oil-bearing reservoirs within the KT1 and KT2 may be present over a substantial part of the area covered by License 1557. We continue to update the technical appraisal of our field and collect and evaluate reservoir and fluid data from our wells. Based on available regional data, the possibility exists that the prospective Devonian carbonates may underlie the KT2 at significantly greater depths, but this possibility remains undefined due to insufficient data at the present time.
Proved Reserves
Our estimated proved oil and gas reserve quantities were prepared by Ryder Scott Company, independent petroleum engineers. There are numerous uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves and projecting future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. These uncertainties are greater for properties which are undeveloped or have a limited production history, such as the South Alibek Field. Our actual reserves, future rates of production and timing of development expenditures may vary substantially from these estimates. All of our proved reserves are in the South Alibek Field. Our net quantities of proved developed and undeveloped reserves of crude oil and standardized measure of future net cash flows are reflected in the table below. See further information about the basis of presentation of these amounts in note 12 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements.
As of December 31, 2005, we own a 100% working interest in the South Alibek Field, subject to Kazakhstan government royalties and a 3.5% net revenue interest in favor of a third party. The effect of these interest deductions is reflected in the calculation of our net proved reserves. Our proved reserves have been prepared under the assumption that we obtain a commercial production contract which will allow production for the expected 25-year term of the contract, as more fully discussed above under “Production Contract.” Based on forecast production volumes, the average royalty over the term of the production contract is expected to be 2.2% or less.
Net Proved Crude Oil Reserves and Future Net Cash Flows
As of December 31, 2005
(Quantities in Barrels)
The following table shows the number of developed and undeveloped acres in the South Alibek Field as of the dates indicated:
For information regarding our production from the South Alibek Field, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below.
Transportation and Marketing
Oil producers in the area of the South Alibek Field utilize both the KazTrans Oil and Russian Transneft pipeline systems to export crude oil to regional hub locations such as Samara, Ukraine, the Port of Odessa on the Black Sea and European locations such as Poland, Hungry, Lithuania, Germany and Finland. Pipeline capacity in the area has significantly increased with the opening of the Caspian Pipeline Consortium (“CPC”) pipeline, which ultimately will boost regional export capacity from 250,000 barrels of oil per day to an expected 800,000
barrels of oil per day. Two Soviet-era oil pipelines in the local area of the Field, with combined capacity of 143,000 barrels of oil per day, continue to service nearby producing fields. These pipelines transport oil to the Bestamak rail terminal and the oil refinery in Orsk via Kenkiyak Field, and can be used as a transfer point for oil exchanges to Western markets. Several rail loading oil terminals are also in the area and can be used for export sales. The nearest is approximately 30 miles from the South Alibek Field at Zhem.
Two important connecting pipelines in the vicinity of the South Alibek Field became operational in 2003. The Kenkiyak-Atyrau pipeline, with an initial capacity of 120,000 barrels of oil per day, originates at the Kenkiyak Field and provides a link to the CPC pipeline for nearby producing fields, including the Zhanazhol Field. The Alibekmola-Kenkiyak pipeline provides direct pipeline access from the Alibekmola Field to the Kenkiyak-Atyrau pipeline for export to western markets via the CPC pipeline. The pump station at the Alibekmola Field is one mile from the site of our central production facilities.
We currently export the majority of our oil production to international markets by rail from the Zhem terminal. The terminal is accessed by truck from our field facilities. A portion of the oil continues to be sold in the local markets to alleviate storage constraints of the existing field facilities. Our future plans include the shipment of all our production by pipeline, which is the preferred and most cost effective method to sell oil into the export markets. Based upon our discussions with the operator of the Alibekmola-Kenkiyak pipeline, we believe we will be able to begin exporting our oil via this pipeline during 2006, subject to possible capacity limitations. To obtain access, we will be required to make certain processing and delivery investments or arrangements with nearby producers. In addition, CNPC is finalizing the extension of the rail line from Zhem to Zhanazhol Field, placing rail access within approximately four miles of the South Alibek Field. Construction of a rail spur from our field to the Zhanazhol Field is under consideration, which would eliminate the need to truck the oil to Zhem. See “Item 1. Business-Customers.”
Drilling Rig
In December 2001, we purchased a drilling rig for our operations in the South Alibek Field for total consideration of $5.3 million, including a note payable for $3.3 million and the issuance of $2.0 million in redeemable common stock. The rig is a National 1320UE, with a 2,000 horsepower rating, a depth rating of approximately 20,000 feet and a 320-ton rating on the drawworks. At the time of purchase, the rig was in storage in South America. During 2002, we moved the rig to Kazakhstan and refurbished and modified the rig to make it suitable for use in our operations. We contracted the operation and manning of the rig to a third party. The rig has been idle since December 2004. In the first quarter of 2006, we reached an agreement to dispose of the rig. See note 3 of the Notes to Our Consolidated Financial Statements. As more fully discussed in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” below, we settled litigation relating to the drilling rig in December 2005.
Item 3.