ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
OIL AND GAS ASSETS
Our oil and gas activities have focused on the acquisition of unevaluated oil and gas properties and the drilling of exploratory wells in the Piceance Basin of Colorado and the Powder River Basin of Wyoming and Montana. In addition, exploration projects are underway in Germany, Romania and Texas.
PICEANCE BASIN - COLORADO On March 2, 2005, we entered into a Lease Acquisition and Development Agreement (the "Agreement") with Apollo Energy LLC and ATEC Energy Ventures, LLC (the "Sellers") to acquire an initial 58-1/3% working interest in unevaluated oil and gas properties in the Piceance Basin in Colorado, by depositing $7,000,000 in escrow. Subsequently, including interest earned on the escrow account and a small additional deposit we made into the account, we paid from escrow a total $7,022,088 to acquire undeveloped leases in the area. Because the Sellers were not willing to enter into the Agreement with us without having some agreement regarding the remaining 41-2/3% working interest in the subject properties, we entered into a Participation Agreement with Marc A. Bruner, a related party (see Item 13), to acquire all or a portion of the remaining 41-2/3% working interest in the subject properties. Mr. Bruner subsequently assigned his rights under the Agreement to an unrelated third party, Exxel Energy Corp. Mr. Bruner is now a significant shareholder of Exxel Energy Corp. In October 2005, the Company and Exxel amended the Participation Agreement so that Exxel was responsible for funding 100% of the next $14 million of lease acquisition, drilling, completion and facilities costs to be incurred. Following that, we began to participate for our 25% working interest in the project.
We commenced drilling operations on our first operated well on December 5, 2005. We own a 25% working interest in that well which has been completed and is shut in pending availability of a gas sales pipeline. The three additional wells drilled together with our partner, Exxel a related party, include one which has production casing set and has been partially completed, one in which production casing has been set and completion work has not been commenced, and one which was abandoned due to mechanical problems after reaching planned total depth. Four additional new wells have been commenced on one pad with conductor casing set in each.
Jointly, we and Exxel had an obligation under the agreement with the Sellers to commence drilling one well by December 31, 2005, which obligation was met, and we were required to commence nine additional wells by August 22, 2006. As of this date, all of these requirements have been satisfactorily met.
Sellers have reserved in the assignments of the leases either a reserved production payment or a reserved overriding royalty interest, each equal to the difference between 20% and existing burdens, but never less than 2%. At project payout, Sellers were to be vested with an undivided 12 1/2% of our interest in the leases. Exxel and Galaxy have agreed to purchase a portion of this back-in working interest from Sellers so that it will be reduced from 12 1/2% to 10%. Our share of the purchase price will be $325,000, which will be paid, in four monthly installments of $81,250 on the first business day of each month commencing April 2, 2007.
POWDER RIVER BASIN - WYOMING (GLASGOW AND WEST RECLUSE). This project consists of approximately 4,250 net acres of oil and gas leases in Campbell and Converse counties on the eastern side of the Powder River
Basin. As of March 1, 2007, a total of 43 wells have been drilled on the acreage, 37 of which have been completed. Of these wells, 22 are producing gas at various levels of production along with some produced water at West Recluse. The 15 completed wells at Glasgow are currently shut in due to low gas sales prices and resulting uneconomical producing operations. As of March 1, 2007, gas production from the West Recluse area wells was approximately seven hundred thousand cubic feet per day.
POWDER RIVER BASIN - WYOMING (BUFFALO RUN, PIPELINE RIDGE, HORSE HILL AND DUTCH CREEK). This property is located approximately 12 miles southeast of Sheridan, Wyoming, and is divided into four CBM exploration projects: Buffalo Run, Pipeline Ridge, Horse Hill, and Dutch Creek. The project area contains up to eight separate coals, ranging in depth from 150 feet to 1,800 feet. Coal thickness ranges from 20 feet to 70 feet, generally thinning with depth. We estimate that full development of this project area would include the drilling of up to 250 wells, with up to four coal zone completions per well.
The four projects are in the early implementation stages with 104 wells drilled to various depths as of March 1, 2007. Of these 67 have been completed and approximately three-fourths of those have gas pressures at the wellhead while the remaining wells all had significant gas shows during drilling and completion operations. While these outcomes indicate that these wells may become productive, only a portion of these wells has been stimulated and placed on production. Contracts for electrical power supply were executed and construction is complete in the Pipeline Ridge area. As of March 1, 2007, 32 production wells and 6 water disposal wells have been drilled and completed in the Pipeline Ridge area. Five additional wells have been started with only surface casing in place. Installation of a compressor station to handle gas sales into the adjacent Bighorn pipeline has been completed. The production wells are continuing to dewater. At the current stage of dewatering, minor amounts of gas are being produced by every well; but the gas production is insufficient for sales into the pipeline. Additional water handling facilities are being developed to handle the water that is currently being produced in this field. Managed irrigation on 40 acres was implemented on September 12, 2006. In addition, the cost of dewatering the production wells is approximately $87,000 per month. An unrelated oil and gas company has drilled and completed over 200 wells in the vicinity of Pipeline Ridge and is finalizing a water management program to enable full-scale production. Once it begins pumping from its wells, our effective dewatering program will be greatly enhanced, which we believe will accelerate the time to gas sales.
POWDER RIVER BASIN - WYOMING (LEITER AND UCROSS FIELDS). Effective September 30, 2002, we entered into a lease acquisition and drilling agreement with Pioneer Oil, a Montana limited liability company ("Pioneer"), which entitled us to earn a 100% working interest and an 80% net revenue interest in leases covering 15,657 acres in the Powder River Basin, near Leiter, Wyoming. Under these agreements, as amended, we acquired 5 existing natural gas wells. In addition, we were obligated to drill, or acquire, a total of 125 wells on the leased acreage by December 31, 2005. We did not meet this drilling commitment as of December 31, 2005. Thus we have retained our interest in only the 3,920 acres surrounding the 49 wells drilled, or acquired, as of December 31, 2005. The remaining acreage has been forfeited. The project area is approximately 20 to 30 miles west of the main north-south CBM fairway in Campbell county, Wyoming, and is approximately nine miles west of the nearest established CBM production. Most of our acreage is positioned along roads and pipelines. There is 20-inch gas transmission line crossing the Leiter property, and U.S. Highway 14 runs through both project areas and provides year-round access.
Ten coal seams have been identified throughout the lease area, which range from 10 feet to 35 feet in thickness and with depths of 600 to 2,500 feet below the surface. The primary targets are coal beds in the Fort Union Formation. Drilling depths range from 1,200 to 2,600 feet. The Fort Union Formation is expected to have about 130 feet of aggregate coal separated into 8 to 10 widely spaced beds. The coals are widespread and have a nearly continuous distribution. The successful implementation of multi-seam well completion technology and cost effective produced water management in accordance with existing established practices and requirements will greatly enhance results.
As of March 1, 2007, these two areas contained 42 completed wells, 5 wells that are partly completed and 2 water disposal wells. Construction of gathering systems for both areas, together with field facilities for the Leiter wells, were completed during 2005 and dewatering of a number of the Leiter wells was begun. However, the amount of water produced from the wells was sufficient to overwhelm the installed water handling capabilities, and the wells were taken off production until additional water handling facilities that are being developed allow dewatering to recommence. We estimate that the cost to add the new water handling facilities at the Leiter Field
will be approximately $1,320,000 and that the cost for the Ucross Field will be approximately $1,775,000 based on utilizing a combination of additional reservoirs, evaporators, drip & managed irrigation, injection wells, and treatment & discharge.
LEITER FIELD. Mud logs from the five original Pioneer wells on this property indicate the presence of gas in these coal seams. The mud log gas shows are consistent with other Fort Union coals in the western portion of the Powder River Basin. Based on historical production from other similar areas within this basin, which are producing gas from the same Fort Union Formation coals in approximately 11,000 active wells, we are optimistic that economically recoverable amounts of gas will be present here. However, we recognize that analogies drawn from available data from other wells or producing fields may not be applicable to our drilling prospects.
Based on the Pioneer mudlogs, we have determined that the initial target seams will be the Cook, Wall, and Pawnee seams at depths of 1,700 to 1,800 feet. These zones have exhibited the highest consistent gas shows in the area and comprise 35 to 40 feet of total coal across an interval of approximately 100 feet. Depending on pricing and water disposal capacity, an additional 70 to 80 feet of shallower prospective coal could be accessed through future perforations or by drilling additional wells to accelerate gas production. We have drilled an additional 15 wells and converted two of the Pioneer wells into water disposal wells. The 18 resulting production wells were completed in the Pawnee coal. One sample of Pawnee coal was analyzed for adsorption isotherm potential. Results indicate the coal has the potential to hold 78 standard cubic feet per ton if fully saturated with gas. Initial production testing showed higher than expected permeability in the Pawnee seam, with one well flowing 10-20 Mcf per day immediately upon coming online. The presence of immediately producible gas confirms that these coals are fully gas saturated, and have approximately 400 Mmcf of gas in place per 35-40 feet of coal. Because of the higher permeability, the Leiter wells produce much more water than our original model suggested, necessitating expansion of water disposal facilities.
UCROSS FIELD. No existing wells were present on this property. As such, we ran mudlogs on several initial wells in this field, and confirmed that the Cook, Wall, and Pawnee coals had the highest gas contents. Based on these initial wells, we drilled a total of 29 wells through the Pawnee coal at Ucross and completed eight wells as perforated completions in the Cook coal and eight wells as co-mingled perforated completions in the Cook and Wall coals, and eight wells as perforated completions in the Wall coal. Five wells remain to be perforated, and these operations are underway with completion schedule before April 1, 2007.
Twenty-four offsetting wells operated by an unrelated oil and gas company have begun producing small amounts of gas and will aid the dewatering effort on our leases.
Water management at Ucross has delayed the start of production. The Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality put a hold on issuing any discharge permits pending completion of a hydrologic basin watershed study. The study has been completed, but no ruling has been issued, and we have drafted a comprehensive water management plan that includes surface and subsurface storage, evaporation, managed irrigation, and treatment/discharge.
POWDER RIVER BASIN - WYOMING (BEAVER CREEK). This project consists of various non-operated working interests in approximately 24,400 net acres adjacent to, and in the vicinity of, the Leiter Buffalo Run, Pipeline Ridge, Horse Hill, and Dutch Creek acreage. This project is also in the early implementation stage with 22 wells in which we have participation drilled to various depths as of March 1, 2007. Of these, seven have been completed, but are not yet connected to a gathering system. The operator is developing plans to include these 22 wells in expanded production pilot projects, which are then expected to be followed by full development of the related areas. We do not currently have the financial resources to develop this property.
POWDER RIVER BASIN - MONTANA This project consists of 12.5% and 25% non-operated working interests in certain oil and gas leases covering approximately 173,600 gross acres in the Powder River Basin area of Montana
The primary geologic target associated in the acreage is natural gas from shallow coal beds located at depths of 200 feet to 2,500 feet. Multiple coal seams are present in this prospect area, with a total coal thickness of approximately 100 feet. There are several surface structures and faults in the prospect area that were mapped by the U.S. Geological Survey and the Montana Bureau of Mines. We expect these structural features to enhance the CBM
gas production. Data used in defining the prospect area was taken from these agencies, as well as information from abandoned deeper oil and gas wells drilled in the area. CBM gas production has been established approximately six miles south of the area where cumulative production to date is about 20 billion cubic feet of natural gas.
This acreage is divided into two projects: the Kirby prospect and the Castle Rock prospect. We are currently participating in the first phase of a planned development for the Kirby Area. Operations are underway for dewatering an initial 16-well pilot, and field facilities for these operations are in place and working. We also have interests in two test wells in the Castle Rock area. A decision concerning the further development of this area is being analyzed by the partners involved in the project. However, based upon the somewhat discouraging results of the initial test wells, a recent decision by two of the other non-operators to not pay delay rentals, and our lack of commitment to further development of this area without an improvement in its outlook, we have decided to impair the entire $2,070,547 carrying value of the Castle Rock prospect in the attached financial statements.
EAST TEXAS. We have paid-up leases covering approximately 1,560 undeveloped net acres in the vicinity of the Trawick Field, located in Rusk and Nacogdoches counties, Texas. Leases covering this acreage expire from June 2007 through December 2007. Discussions have been underway to farm out or sell these leases.
JIU VALLEY. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Pannonian International, has a concession agreement covering 21,538 gross acres for a term of 30 years in the Jiu Valley Coal Basin, Romania. Of this area, only 13,715 acres that are underlain by total coal bed thicknesses greater than 5 meters are considered to be prospective for coal bed methane production at this time. This acreage contains up to 18 coal seams with a cumulative thickness up to 170 feet at depths of 985 to 3,280 feet. The main target seam averages 22 meters in thickness in the concession area. The concession from the Romanian government was issued October 22, 2002.
On June 1, 2005 Pannonian, entered into a farmout agreement with Falcon Oil & Gas Ltd., a related party because its President, Marc A. Bruner is a related party (see Item 13), to evaluate the concession held by Pannonian in the Jiu Valley Coal Basin. The farmout agreement called for the assignment of the concession and a 75% working interest in the concession area to Falcon; and for the drilling of one test well and an additional, optional, test well, the cost of which will be paid 100% by Falcon. In addition Falcon paid Pannonian $100,000 upon approval by the Romanian government of the assignment of the concession to Falcon, and will pay the first $250,000 of Pannonian's proportionate share of drilling and operating costs subsequent to the drilling of the first two wells. The assignment of the Concession from Pannonian to Falcon was subject to Romanian government approval, as well as other regulatory approvals, all of which have been obtained. Pannonian initially acted as Falcon's contract operator during drilling on the first Jiu Valley well.
Drilling of the first test well on the property was completed in September 2005. The core analyses and preliminary desorption measurements in the field indicated the potential presence of coal bed methane in multiple horizons but gave no indication at the time of the potential gas production rates or recoverable reserves to be expected. Based on gas shows during the drilling of the well and the core information, the partners in the project determined to commence completion and testing operations. A fracture stimulation treatment has been completed in the lower zones penetrated, and testing for potential gas production is underway.
Pannonian has applied for a concession on an additional 120,000 acres in Romania known as the Anina Block. Such application is still pending at this date. If the concession is granted, Pannonian will have a 25% interest and Falcon will have a 75% interest. All of the costs related to the concession application are being borne by Falcon.
NEUES BERGLAND - GERMANY. In December 2003, the 149,435-acre Neues Bergland Exploration Permit was granted for a three-year term to Pannonian International (50%) and two co-permittees (each with 25%). Both of the co-permittees are privately-held oil and gas companies that are not affiliated with us. In December 2006, we were granted a three-year extension on the Permit due to satisfactory completion of the 2005-2006 work program and based on future work commitments for subsequent years.
On March 15, 2005, Pannonian, together with its partners in the Glantal project in Germany, executed a farmout agreement covering the Neues Bergland Exploration Permit area with Empyrean Energy PLC, a publicly-traded, unaffiliated oil and gas company. Terms of the agreement called for Empyrean to initially earn a 40%
working interest in the permit, which could rise to 52% depending upon results of the project. Empyrean earned the 40% interest after paying $750,000 to Pannonian and the two co-permittees and providing evidence of deposits totaling 1.3 million euros which were set aside for drilling obligations on the project. As a result, our interest in the project has been reduced to 30%. Our interest in the project may drop to 24%, depending upon the outcome of the future drilling program.
Drilling on the first test well on the property reached total depth in late January 2006. Based upon the initial review of open hole logs from the well, several zones of interest existed and were subsequently tested through casing. Due to results obtained, the joint venture group decided to abandon this first well and undertake a seismic program to help identify priority areas on the Permit for further drilling.
PRODUCTION AND PRICES
The following table sets forth information regarding net production of oil and natural gas, and certain price and cost information for fiscal years ended November 30, 2006 and 2005. We did not have any production during the fiscal year ended November 30, 2004.
PRODUCTIVE GAS WELLS
The following summarizes our productive and shut-in gas wells as of November 30, 2006. Producing wells are wells producing natural gas or water, a pre-cursor to natural gas production. Shut-in wells are completed wells that are capable of production but are currently not producing. Gross wells are the total number of wells in which we have a working interest. Net wells are the sum of our fractional working interests owned in the gross wells.
PRODUCING GAS WELLS GROSS NET Producing gas wells 71 53.58 Shut-in gas wells 99 91.18 Wells in various stages of com- pletion and water disposal wells 75 64.05 --- ------ Total 245 208.81 === ======
ESTIMATED PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES
We recognized our first proved reserves during the year ended November 30, 2005. The proved reserves are located in two prospects on the eastern side of the Powder River Basin and in one well in the Piceance Basin in northwestern Colorado. Gustavson Associates, LLC, an independent petroleum engineering firm, estimated proved reserves as summarized in the table below, in accordance with definitions and pricing requirements as prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Estimated values of proved reserves were computed using prices in effect at November 30, 2006 of $6.86/Mcf and $59.36/bbl. Due to the Company's current liquidity issues, proved undeveloped reserves identified in the Gustavson Associates report have been excluded from the disclosures below.
Estimated proved reserves as on November 30, 2006:
OIL AND GAS ACREAGE
The following table sets forth the undeveloped and developed leasehold acreage, by area, held by us as of November 30, 2006. Undeveloped acres are acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves. Developed acres are acres, which are spaced or assignable to productive wells. Gross acres are the total number of acres in which we have a working interest. Net acreage is obtained by multiplying gross acreage by our working interest percentage in the properties. The table does not include acreage in which we have a contractual right to acquire or to earn through drilling projects, or any other acreage for which we have not yet received leasehold assignments.
DRILLING ACTIVITY
The following table sets forth our drilling activity during the years ended November 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2006 2005 2004 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- GROSS NET GROSS NET GROSS NET ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Exploratory wells: ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Productive 5 0.8 23 6.2 135 119.4 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Dry 1 0.2 -0- -0- -0- -0- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Development wells: ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Productive 3 3 -0- -0- -0- -0- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Dry 0 0 -0- -0- -0- -0- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Total wells 9 4 23 6.2 135 119.4 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
OFFICE SPACE
Our principal executive offices are located at 1331 - 17th Street, Suite 1050, Denver, Colorado, where we lease approximately 5,270 square feet of office space under a lease expiring April 30, 2010.
ITEM 3.