ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
LIVENGOOD GOLD PROJECT, Alaska
The Company currently holds, or has rights to acquire, ownership or leasehold interests in a group of adjacent mineral properties in Alaska which are collectively referred to as the “Livengood Gold Project.” The Livengood Gold Project is located approximately 113 km (70 miles) by road northwest of Fairbanks, Alaska and approximately 65 km (40 miles) north of the boundary of the Fairbanks North Star Borough as shown in Figure 1 below. The project lies within the Tolovana Mining District in the northern part of the Tintina Gold Belt. The Company’s primary focus is to continue to advance the Livengood Gold Project with the objective of assessing its viability for commercial gold mining.
The Company is in the process of optimizing the Livengood Gold Project and does not mine, produce or sell any mineral products at this time. The Company controls 100% of the Livengood Gold Project, which has a current (as at August 26, 2016) mineral resource of 497 million measured tonnes at an average grade of 0.68 g/tonne (10.84 million ounces), 28 million indicated tonnes at an average grade of 0.69 g/tonne (0.62 million ounces) and 53 million inferred tonnes at an average grade of 0.66 g/tonne (1.1 million ounces). In 2016 the Company issued the results of a pre-feasibility study that was summarized in the October 2016 Study which converted a portion of the mineral resources at the Project into proven reserves of 378 million tonnes at an average grade of 0.71 g/tonne (8.62 million ounces) and probable reserves of 14 million tonnes at an average grade of 0.72 g/tonne (353,000 ounces) based on a gold price of $1,250 per ounce. All work presently planned by the Company is directed at maintaining necessary environmental baseline activities at the Livengood Gold Project and focusing efforts on Project optimization opportunities, including those identified in the October 2016 Study.
The Company relies upon consultants and contractors to carry on many of its activities and, in particular, to carry out drilling programs at the Livengood Gold Project and in connection with metallurgical test work, engineering and the preparation of technical reports on the Project. However, as ITH expands its activities, it may choose to hire additional employees rather than relying on consultants.
Figure 1: Location of the Livengood Gold Project
Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiography
The Livengood Gold Project is located approximately 113 km (70 miles) by road northwest of Fairbanks, Alaska in the Tolovana Mining District within the Tintina Gold Belt. The Project area is centered on Money Knob, a local topographic high point. This feature and the adjoining ridgelines are the probable lode gold source for the Livengood placer deposits which lie in the adjacent valleys which have been actively mined since 1914 and have produced more than 500,000 ounces of gold.
The Livengood Gold Project straddles and is accessed via the Elliot Highway, a paved, all weather road linking the north slope oil fields at Prudhoe Bay to central and southern Alaska through Fairbanks. At present there are no full time residents in the former mining town of Livengood. A number of unpaved roads have been developed in the area providing excellent access. A 427m (1400-foot) runway is located 6 km (3.7 miles) to the southwest near the former Alyeska Pipeline Company Livengood Camp and is suitable for light aircraft. The Livengood Gold Project is also adjacent to the Alyeska Pipeline corridor, which transports crude oil from Prudhoe Bay south. This corridor contains a fiber optic communications cable utilized at the Livengood Gold Project.
Topography at the site is eroded hills and valleys with a general elevation difference of 200m (656 feet). The valleys generally contain active streams draining into the Tolovana River system to the west.
The site is approximately 65 km (40 miles) south of the Arctic Circle, and has a subarctic climate with long, cold winters and short, warm summers. Annual precipitation is approximately 40 cm (16 inches). Average low temperatures in winter are -21° to -28° Celsius (-6° to -18° Fahrenheit), with records reaching as low as -55° Celsius (-67° Fahrenheit). Exploration work on the Livengood Gold Project can be limited due to excessive snow cover and cold temperatures. In general, surface sampling work is limited to May through September and surface drilling from March through November. Road-accessible wetland areas may only be explored while frozen in the winter. Work to date on the site has been limited to exploration and geotechnical drilling and environmental baseline activities. The Company does not have any plant or equipment at the site, relying on contractors to perform the work.
The nearest community to Livengood Gold Project is the village of Minto, a town with a population of approximately 258 located approximately 65 km (40 miles) southwest by road. The Fairbanks metropolitan area has a population of approximately 100,000 people, and comprises the regional center with hospitals, government offices, businesses and the University of Alaska, Fairbanks. The city is linked to southern Alaska along a north-south transportation and utility corridor that includes two paved highways, a railroad to tide water, an interlinked electrical grid, and communications infrastructure. Fairbanks has an international airport serviced daily by up to three major airlines.
In preliminary, nonbinding discussions, the local utility in Fairbanks (Golden Valley Electrical Association) has indicated that 80-100 Megawatts of power could be available to the Livengood Gold Project. Livengood would be connected to the local grid by building a 82 km (50 miles) 230-kVA line along the pipeline corridor. Environmental baseline studies required for the electrical line construction started in 2011.
The October 2016 Study developed site layout plans for the infrastructure required at the Livengood Gold Project. This included evaluating mine shops; process, water and tailing management facilities; power; access roads; administration offices; and camp facilities.
Livengood Gold Project Lands
The Livengood Gold Project covers approximately 19,546 hectares (48,300 acres), all of which is controlled by the Company through TH Alaska. The Livengood Gold Project is comprised of multiple land parcels: 100% owned patented mining claims, 100% owned State of Alaska mining claims, 100% owned federal unpatented placer claims; land leased from the Alaska Mental Health Trust (“AMHT”); land leased from holders of state and federal patented and unpatented mining and placer claims, and undivided interests in patented mining claims. The property and claims controlled through ownership, leases or agreements are summarized below.
100% owned patented mining claims
·U.S. Mineral Survey 2447, located on lower Livengood Creek, subject to the December 2011 land purchase agreement described below and further subject to an agreement to allow Larry Nelson, as agent for Nelson Mining Company, to operate a placer mine on MS 2447 through May 11, 2018.
·U.S. Mineral Survey 1956, located on lower Gertrude Creek, subject to a reserved royalty of 5% of gross value held by Key Trust Company on behalf of the Luther Hess Trust, and further subject to an agreement to allow Samuel Eaves and Patricia Eaves to operate a placer mine on MS 1956 through June 1, 2017.
·With respect to portions of U.S. Mineral Survey 1626, located on lower Amy Creek:
100% of No. 2 Above Discovery Any Creek,
100% of No. 3 Above Discovery Amy Creek, and
100% of Up Grade Association Bench
100% owned State of Alaska mining claims
·169 state claims acquired by purchase.
·153 state claims acquired by location.
100% owned federal unpatented placer claims
·29 federal unpatented placer claims, subject to the December 2011 land purchase agreement described below.
100% owned Livengood Placers, Inc., a private Nevada corporation that is 100% owned by TH Alaska. Livengood Placers, Inc. is the record owner of the following:
·29 patented claims, subject to the December 2011 land purchase agreement described below.
·108 federal unpatented placer claims, subject to the December 2011 land purchase agreement described below.
·24 State of Alaska mining claims, subject to the December 2011 land purchase agreement described below.
Leased property
·Alaska Mental Health Trust Lease. A lease of the AMHT mineral rights having a term commencing July l, 2004 and extending 19 years until June 30, 2023, subject to further extensions beyond June 30, 2023 by either commercial production or payment of an advance minimum royalty equal to 125% of the amount paid in year 19 and diligent pursuit of development. The lease requires minimum work expenditures and advance minimum royalties which escalate annually with inflation. A net smelter return (“NSR”) production royalty of between 2.5% and 5.0% (depending upon the price of gold) is payable to the lessor with respect to the lands subject to this lease. In addition, an NSR production royalty of l% is payable to the lessor with respect to the unpatented federal mining claims subject to the lease described in the Hudson/Geraghty Lease below and an NSR production royalty of between 0.5% and 1.0% (depending upon the price of gold) is payable to the lessor with respect to the lands acquired by the Company as a result of the purchase of Livengood Placers, Inc. in December 2011. As of December 31, 2016, there were 9,970 acres included in the AMHT lease.
·Hudson/Geraghty Lease. A lease of 20 federal unpatented lode mining claims having an initial term of ten years commencing on April 21, 2003 and continuing for so long thereafter as advance minimum royalties are paid and mining related activities, including exploration, continue on the property or on adjacent properties controlled by the Company. The lease requires an advance minimum royalty of $50,000 on or before each anniversary date (all of which minimum royalties are recoverable from production royalties). An NSR production royalty of between 2% and 3% (depending on the price of gold) is payable to the lessors. The Company may purchase 1% of the royalty for $1,000,000.
·Griffin Lease. A lease of three patented lode claims having an initial term of ten years commencing January 18, 2007, and continuing for so long thereafter as advance minimum royalties are paid. The lease requires an advance minimum royalty of $20,000 on or before each anniversary date through January 18, 2017 and $25,000 on or before each subsequent anniversary (all of which minimum royalties are recoverable from production royalties). An NSR production royalty of 3% is payable to the lessors. The Company may purchase all interests of the lessors in the leased property (including the production royalty) for $1,000,000 (less all minimum and production royalties paid to the date of purchase), of which $500,000 is payable in cash over four years following the closing of the purchase and the balance of $500,000 is payable by way of the 3% NSR production royalty.
·Tucker Lease. A lease of two unpatented federal lode mining claims and four federal unpatented placer claims having an initial term of ten years commencing on March 28, 2007, and continuing for so long thereafter as advance minimum royalties are paid and mining related activities, including exploration, continue on the property or on adjacent properties controlled by the Company. The lease requires an advance minimum royalty of $15,000 on or before each anniversary date (all of which minimum royalties are recoverable from production royalties). The Company is required to pay the lessor the sum of $250,000 upon making a positive production decision, payable $125,000 within 120 days of the decision and $125,000 within a year of the decision (all of which are recoverable from production royalties). An NSR production royalty of 2% is payable to the lessor. The Company may purchase all of the interest of the lessor in the leased property (including the production royalty) for $1,000,000.
Patented claims (undivided interests less than 100%)
·An undivided 5/6th interest in that certain patented placer mining claim known as the “Kinney Bench” claim, included within U.S. Mineral Survey No. 1626 on lower Amy Creek.
·An undivided 5/9th interest in that certain patented placer mining claim known as the “Union Bench Association” claim, included within U.S. Mineral Survey No. 1626 on lower Amy Creek.
·An undivided 1/6th interest in that certain patented placer mining claim known as the “Bessie Bench” claim, included within U.S. Mineral Survey No. 1626 on lower Amy Creek.
·An undivided 1/3rd interest in those certain patented placer mining claims known as the “War Association” claim; the “Mutual Association” claim; and the “O.K. Fraction” claim, all included within U.S. Mineral Survey No. 2033 on lower Amy Creek.
On State of Alaska lands, the state holds both the surface and the subsurface rights. State of Alaska 40-acre mining claims require an annual rental payment of $35/claim to be paid to the state (by November 30th of each year), for the first five years, $70 per year for the second five years, and $170 per year thereafter. These rental rates are multiplied by 4 for each 160 acre claim. As a consequence of the annual rentals due, all Alaska State Mining Claims have an expiry date of November 30th each year. In addition, there is a minimum annual work expenditure requirement of $100 per 40-acre claim (due on or before noon on September 1 in each year) or cash-in-lieu thereof, and an affidavit evidencing that such work has been performed is required to be filed on or before November 30th in each year. Excess work can be carried forward for up to four years. If the rental is paid and the work requirements are met, the claims can be held indefinitely. The work completed by the Company during the 2016 field season was filed as assessment work, and the value of that work is sufficient to meet the assessment work requirements through September 1, 2020 on all State of Alaska mining claims.
Holders of State of Alaska mining claims are also required to pay a production royalty on all revenue received from minerals produced on state land during each calendar year. The production royalty rate is 3% of net income.
Holders of federal unpatented mining claims are required to pay an annual rental of $140 per 20 acres.
All of the foregoing agreements are in good standing and are transferable. The Company has taken reasonable steps to verify title to mineral properties in which it has an interest. Except for the patented claims, none of the properties have been surveyed.
Holders of Federal and Alaska State unpatented mining claims have the right to use the land or water included within mining claims only when necessary for mineral prospecting, development, extraction, or basic processing, or for storage of mining equipment. However, the exercise of such rights is subject to the appropriate permits being obtained.
December 2011 Land Purchase Agreement
In December 2011, the Company completed a transaction to acquire certain mining claims and related rights in the vicinity of the Livengood Gold Project. This acquisition included both mining claims and all of the shares of Livengood Placers, Inc. These assets were purchased on December 13, 2011 for aggregate consideration of $36,600,000 allocated between cash consideration of $13,500,000 and a derivative liability of $23,100,000. The derivative liability was a contingent payment based on the five-year average daily gold price (“Average Gold Price”) from the date of the acquisition. The derivative liability equals $23,148 for every dollar that the Average Gold Price exceeds $720 per troy ounce. The obligation to make the contingent payment was secured by a Deed of Trust over the rights of the Company in the purchased claims in favor of the vendors. On January 12, 2017, the Company paid $14,694,169 for the timely and full satisfaction of the final derivative payment, and on January 17, 2017, the Full Deed of Reconveyance releasing the Deed of Trust on the acquired property was recorded. As a consequence, the Company now fully owns the subject properties and the shares of Livengood Placer, Inc. and has no further liability to the vendors with respect to this acquisition.
The subject ground was previously vacant or was used for placer gold mining. No placer mineral reserves or mineral resources have been established on the ground subject to this agreement. However, records exist for 2,370 placer drill holes that have been completed on the subject ground between 1933 and 2011. Of these, the 945 holes completed between 1933 and 1984 were primarily 6” churn drill holes. The 1,425 drill holes completed between 1984 and 2000 were 8” RC rotary drill holes utilizing a center return tri-cone bit. All lands controlled by the Company, including the lands acquired pursuant to this agreement, were evaluated as appropriate for integration into the October 2016 Study for the Livengood Gold Project.
Geology and Mineralization
The rocks at the Livengood Gold Project are part of the Livengood Terrane, an east-west belt, approximately 240 km (149 miles) long, consisting of tectonically interleaved assemblages of various ages. These assemblages include the Amy Creek Assemblage, a sequence of latest Proterozoic and/or early Paleozoic basalt, mudstone, chert, dolomite, and limestone. An early Cambrian ophiolite sequence of mafic and ultramafic sea floor rocks was thrust over the Amy Creek Assemblage and was, in turn, overthrust by a sequence of Devonian shale, siltstone, conglomerate, volcanic, and volcaniclastic rocks, which are the dominant host to the mineralization currently under exploration at the Livengood Gold Project. The Devonian assemblage was overthrust by a second klippe of Cambrian ophiolite rocks. All of these rocks are intruded by Cretaceous multiphase monzonitic and syenitic dikes and sills. Gold mineralization is spatially and temporally associated with these intrusive rocks.
Gold mineralization occurs in association with disseminated arsenopyrite and pyrite in volcanic, sedimentary, and intrusive rocks, and in quartz veins cutting the more competent lithologies, primarily volcanic rocks, sandstones, and, to a lesser degree, ultramafic rocks. Three principal stages of alteration are currently recognized, an early biotite stage, followed by albite-quartz, and a late sericite-quartz assemblage. Carbonate appears to have been introduced with and subsequent to these stages. Arsenopyrite and pyrite were introduced primarily during the albite-quartz and sericite-quartz stages. Gold correlates strongly with arsenic and occurs primarily within and on the margins of arsenopyrite and pyrite.
Mineralization is interpreted as intrusion-related, consistent with other gold deposits of the Tintina Gold Belt, and has a similar As-Sb geochemical association. Mineralization is controlled partly by lithologic units, but thrust-fold architecture was key to providing pathways for intrusive and associated hydrothermal fluids.
Local fault and contact limits to mineralization have been identified, but overall the deposit has not been closed off in any direction. The current resource and area drilled covers the most significant portion of the area with anomalous gold in surface soil samples, but still represents only about 25% of the total gold-anomalous area.
Among deposits of the Tintina Gold Belt, mineralization at the Livengood Gold Project is most similar to the dike and sill-hosted mineralization at the Donlin Creek deposit, where gold occurs in narrow quartz veins associated with dikes and sills of similar composition. The age of the intrusions and the genetic link between the mineralization and intrusive rocks are typical of those of other nearby gold deposits of the Tintina Gold Belt, which have been characterized as intrusion-related gold systems and for these reasons the Livengood Gold Project is best classified with them.
History and Exploration
Gold was first discovered in the gravels of Livengood Creek in 1914. Subsequently, over 500,000 ounces of placer gold were produced and the small town of Livengood was established. From 1914 through the 1970’s, the primary focus of prospecting activity was placer deposits. Historically, prospectors considered Money Knob and the associated ridgeline the source of the placer gold. Prospecting, in the form of dozer trenches, was carried out for lode type mineralization in the vicinity of Money Knob primarily in the 1950’s. However, to date no significant production has been derived from lode gold sources.
The geology and mineral potential of the Livengood District have been investigated by state and federal agencies and explored by several companies over the past 40-plus years. Modern mapping and sampling investigations were initially carried out by the U.S. Geological Survey in 1967 as part of a heavy metal assessment program. Mapping completed in the course of this program recognized the essential rock relations, thrust faulting, and mineralization associated with Devonian clastic rocks, the thrust system and intrusive rocks. Since then, the Livengood placer deposits and the surrounding geology have featured in numerous investigations and mapping programs at various scales by the U.S. Geological Survey and the Alaska State Division of Geological and Geophysical Surveys.
In addition to individuals prospecting the area, since the 1970’s several mining companies, including Homestake, AMAX, Placer Dome, Cambior and AngloGold, have investigated the potential for lode gold mineralization beneath the Livengood placers and on the adjacent hillsides, including at Money Knob. Placer Dome’s work appears to have been the most extensive, but it was focused largely on the northern flank of Money Knob and the valley of Livengood Creek.
The most recent round of exploration of the Money Knob area began when AngloGold acquired the property in 2003 and undertook an 8-hole reverse circulation (RC) program on the Hudson-Geraghty lease. The results from this program were encouraging and were followed up with an expanded soil geochemical survey which identified gold-anomalous zones over Money Knob and to the east. Based on the results of this and prior (Cambior) soil surveys, 4 diamond core holes were drilled in late 2004. Results from these two AngloGold drill programs were deemed favorable but no further work was executed due to financial constraints and a shift in corporate strategy.
The Company acquired the Livengood Gold Project in 2006 from AngloGold and has advanced the soil sampling coverage, undertook to drill surface geochemical anomalies and conducted drilling campaigns on the Livengood Gold Project since that time.
In 2006, the Company conducted a 1,227m, seven-hole program and continued to demonstrate the presence of mineralization over a broader area. The 2007 campaign consisted of 15 diamond drill holes for a total of 4,411m. These holes focused on extending and defining the volcanic-hosted mineralization first recognized by AngloGold in 2003. However, as drilling progressed, it became clear that although mineralization is strongest in the volcanic rocks, it occurs in all rock types at Money Knob.
Based on favorable results in 2007, the 2008 program consisted of 29,150m of RC and 2,187m core drilling in 109 and 9 holes, respectively. The drill program was designed to improve definition and expand the resource calculated early in 2008 based on 2007 drill data. The 2008 drill program did not identify limits to mineralization in any direction. Instead, a thicker mineralized zone (up to 200m) was identified. In addition, this campaign highlighted the fact that mineralization occurs in all rock types, not just in Devonian volcanic rocks, indicating potential more widespread mineralization than envisioned prior to the 2008 drill program.
In 2009, the Company completed 12 diamond drill holes totaling 4,572m and 195 RC holes totaling 59,757m. Six of the diamond drill holes were drilled across the NNW-trending Core Zone in order to better understand the structural controls and to test the depth continuity of the mineralization. This drilling confirmed that the Core Zone is the locus of a swarm of 0.2 - 1.0m thick southerly dipping dikes. In addition, a number of larger (+10m thick) steeply dipping NNW-trending dikes were observed, suggesting that ENE extension may have occurred at about the time of dike magmatism. The RC holes were primarily targeted at grid infill drilling to improve resource estimation of the Core Zone and a step-out program that led to discovery and delineation of the Sunshine and Tower Zones.
In 2010, the Company completed 40 diamond drill holes totaling 13,631m and 198 RC holes totaling 56,550m. These holes, filled in between the Core and Sunshine Zones, expanded the SW Zone and infilled to 50m spacing in the Core and Sunshine Zones.
Nearly all drill holes at Money Knob have been drilled in a northerly direction at an inclination of -50 degrees (RC) and -60 degrees (core) in order to best intercept the south dipping structures and mineralized zones as close to perpendicular as possible. A few holes have been drilled in other directions to test other features and aspects of mineralization. Most exploration holes have been spaced at 75m apart along lines 75m apart, subsequent infill drilling in the center of 75m squares brings the nominal drill spacing to 50m for a significant portion of the deposit. Core is recovered using triple tube techniques to ensure good recovery (>95%) and confidence in core orientation. RC holes are bored and cased for the upper 0-30m to prevent down hole contamination and to help keep the hole open for ease of drilling at greater depths.
In 2011, the Company continued with resource definition drilling, completing 26,163m of RC drilling and 11,468m of diamond drilling. Two areas of the deposit, the Core and Sunshine crosses, were selected for 15m-spaced RC in-fill drilling on crosses with north-south and east-west legs 150m in length. A third area, Area 50 in the Sunshine Zone, measuring 195m by 240m, was drilled on a 37.5m grid with alternating core and RC drilling. Two resources were generated for each volume using ordinary kriging on samples composited to 10m lengths: the first including those portions of the 50m grid drilling within the volume; and a second using both the grid and close-spaced drilling within the same volume. On average, the effect of the increased drilling density on tonnage, grade, and contained ounces of gold was less than 1% and confirmed the integrity of the previously reported resource estimate. In 2011, the Company broadened the scope of the field program to include 2,240m of exploration drilling outside the resource area, as well as 8,932m of geotechnical drilling and 1,192m of large diameter groundwater test wells.
In May 2012, the Company commenced an 18-hole program of condemnation drilling to either sterilize or establish the presence of significant mineralization in the area surrounding the Money Knob deposit. The purpose of the condemnation drilling program was to determine appropriate areas for infrastructure development. Additionally, four of these holes are also being used for hydrological studies. The program was completed in July with 3,065m in 19 holes.
Also in May 2012, the Company commenced multi-faceted drill programs consisting of hydraulic gradient, infrastructure, borrow source identification, and large-diameter wells for pump tests. The hydraulic gradient and infrastructure drilling consisted of 5,826m in 49 holes utilizing core drilling. The geotechnical and borrow source information was obtained from 2,695m drilled in 73 holes, utilizing core, sonic, and auger drilling methods. Seven large diameter wells have been drilled for a total of 1,031m.
The drill program from February through October 2012 totaled 15,731m in 199 holes.
No drill programs were completed during 2013.
The Company did not complete any material exploration at the Project in 2014, 2015 and 2016.
Sample Preparation, Analyses and Security
The Company samples all holes from surface to total depth, using defined procedures. For RC samples, pulverized material is passed through a cyclone to separate solids from drilling fluids, then over a spinning conical splitter. The splitter is set to collect two identical splits of sample weighing 2-5 kg (4.4-11.0 pounds) each. Representative coarse material is collected and saved in chip trays for geological description. Samples are put in pre-numbered, bar-coded bags by the drill site crew. One sample is submitted for analysis, and one sample is kept for reference. Samples are secured on site and transported to a sample preparation facility operated by ALS Chemex in Fairbanks.
Core materials are collected at the drill site and placed in core boxes. Run blocks, orientation blocks and depths are placed in the boxes at site. The core is transported to a sample management facility at the Project, where it is described, then sawn in half. Half of the core is collected for assaying and half remains for reference. Core samples are weighed before shipping.
The Company’s geologic work program at Livengood was designed and is supervised by Chris Puchner, Chief Geologist of the Company, who is a qualified person as defined by NI 43-101. Mr. Puchner is responsible for all aspects of the work, including the quality control/quality assurance program. The quality assurance/quality control program implemented by the Company meets or exceeds industry standards. A quality assurance/quality control program includes insertion of blanks and standards (1/10 samples) and duplicates (1/20 samples). Blanks help assess the presence of any contamination introduced during sample preparation and help calibrate the low end of the assay detection limits. Commercial standards are used to assess the accuracy of the analyses. Duplicates help assess the homogeneity of the sample material and the overall sample variance. The Company has undertaken rigorous protocols to assure accurate and precise results. Among other methods, weights are tracked throughout the various steps performed in the laboratory to minimize and track errors. A group of 2,096 metallic screen fire assays performed in 2011 did not indicate any bias in the matching fire assays.
On-site Project personnel photograph the core from each individual borehole prior to preparing the split core. Duplicate RC drill samples are collected with one split sent for analysis. Representative chips are retained for geological logging. On-site personnel at the Project log and track all samples prior to sealing and shipping. All sample shipments are sealed and shipped to ALS Chemex in Fairbanks, Alaska, for preparation and then on to ALS Chemex in Reno, Nevada, or Vancouver, B.C., for assay. ALS Chemex’s quality system complies with the requirements for the International Standards ISO 9001:2000 and ISO 17025:1999. Analytical accuracy and precision are monitored by the analysis of reagent blanks, reference material and replicate samples. Quality control is further assured by the use of international and in-house standards. Finally, representative blind duplicate samples are forwarded to ALS Chemex and an ISO compliant third party laboratory for additional quality control.
Data entry and database validation procedures have been checked and found to conform to industry practices. Procedures are in place to minimize data entry errors. These include pre-numbered, pre-tagged, bar-coded bags, and bar-coded data entry methods which relate all information to sample and drill interval information. Likewise, data validation checks are run on all information used in the geologic modeling and resource estimation process. Database entries for a random sample (10%) of drill holes used for the resource estimate were checked against the original assay certificates by one of the independent authors of the October 2016 Study and the error rate was found to be within acceptable limits.
Analysis of assay data from core and RC sampling has been performed to check for downhole contamination of RC and to compare the data distributions produced by the two methods. Analysis of RC data has not indicated cyclic down hole contamination. Decay analysis conducted on both core drilling and RC drilling indicates similar patterns of monotonic grade increase or decrease. Comparison of the grade distributions between core and RC data were conducted using Quantile-Quantile plots, and simulation of population means for different numbers of samples. The comparison indicated that the mean of all core data was 4% lower than RC data. Comparison of core and RC data below the water table showed similar population means, suggesting that down hole contamination was not occurring.
Core and RC check samples have been collected during each drilling campaign by independent third parties. Results from these samples, as well as blanks and standards included, are consistent with the Company’s initial results. This includes a similar increase in variance for samples at higher grades, a pattern consistent with nugget effect. No systematic high or low bias has been observed.
October 2016 Study
In October, 2016, the Company filed the October 2016 Study with respect to the Livengood Gold Project, which indicates that the Project generates a minimal positive return at a gold price of $1,250 per ounce. At the current gold price, the Project as contemplated in the October 2016 Study is not commercially viable. Readers are encouraged to review the entire October 2016 Study on SEDAR, with particular emphasis on the sensitivity analyses contained therein. Readers are cautioned that a NI 43-101 report filed on SEDAR by the Company in September of 2013 is no longer considered current and should therefore no longer be relied upon by investors.
Environmental Studies, Permitting and Social and Community Impacts
The Livengood Gold Project is currently operating within compliance of all environmental regulations that apply during the exploration stage of major mineral projects. The Company has received all necessary exploration permits for activities such as trenching, drill road building and drilling. These permits are also reviewed by related state and federal agencies that can comment and require specific changes to the proposed work plans to minimize impacts on the environment. The permitting process for major exploration projects generally requires 30-60 days for processing. The Company currently has all necessary permits with respect to its exploration activities in Alaska. Although the Company has never had an issue with the timely processing of exploration permits there can be no assurances that delays in permit approval will not occur. Reclamation of surface disturbance associated with exploration activities is conducted concurrently where required.
The Company has been conducting extensive, multi-disciplinary environmental baseline studies in and around the Project area since 2008 in order to understand the current environmental conditions and to allow Project design to be optimized to minimize potential environmental effects. The environmental baseline programs conducted or currently underway at the Project include:
·surface water and hydrology;
·groundwater hydrogeology;
·geohydrology;
·wetlands and vegetation;
·meteorology and air quality;
·aquatic life and resources;
·wildlife and habitat;
·cultural resources;
·rock characterization; and
·geochemical characteristics.
Based on review of the studies completed to date, The Company believes that there are no known environmental issues that are anticipated to materially impact the Company’s ability to conduct mining operations at the Project.
Looking forward to potential project development, a site-specific monitoring plan and water management plan for both operations and post mine closure will be developed in conjunction with detailed engineering and project permit planning. Development of the Livengood Gold Project will require a number of state and federal permits. Federal permits will be issued pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and Council of Environmental Quality (CEQ). In fulfillment of the NEPA requirements, the Livengood Gold Project will be required to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement. Although at this time it is unknown which department will become the lead federal agency, the State of Alaska is expected to take a cooperating role to coordinate the NEPA review with the State permit process. Actual permitting timelines are controlled by the NEPA review and U.S. Federal and State agency decisions. There are no municipal or community agreements required for the Livengood Gold Project.
ITEM 3.