ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
El Capitan Property
Our primary asset is the 100% equity interest in El Capitan, Ltd., an Arizona corporation (“ECL”), which holds a 100% interest in the El Capitan property located near Capitan, New Mexico (the “El Capitan Property”).
Below is a map setting forth the location of the El Capitan Property.
Location and Access to Deposits
The El Capitan Property is situated in the Capitan Mountains, near the city of Capitan, in southwest New Mexico. The main site can be reached by going north from Capitan on State Road 246 for 5.5 miles, turning right onto an improved private road and proceeding for about 0.75 mile.
Description of Interests
The El Capitan Property originally consisted of four (4) patented and nine (9) BLM lode claims; and mineral deposits are covered by these claims. The lode claims, known as Mineral Survey Numbers 1440, 1441, 1442 and 1443, were each located in 1902 and patented in 1911. On January 1, 2006, ECL finalized the purchase of the four (4) patented mining claims on the property, which constitute approximately 77.5 acres in the aggregate. These claims are bounded by the Lincoln National Forest in Lincoln County, New Mexico.
Based upon recommendations from our consulting geologist, we have staked and claimed property surrounding the El Capitan Property site located in Lincoln County, New Mexico, increasing the acreage of our total BLM claimed area. We continue to maintain BLM load claims covering the approximately 240 acres and increased our BLM claimed area in 2016 to 2,240 acres that support the Company’s mineral exploration operating plans.
The Company has four grants from President Woodrow Wilson which Grants Rights and easements to the property.
The Company has power supplied to a mobile home on the patented land by Otero County Electric Co-op, Inc.
Currently the Company transports water to the El Capitan Property in a Company-owned water truck. The Company plans to have a water well permitted and drilled on a turn-key basis and has received initial bids on this project. The well will be situated on our patented property.
Mineral Title
As of September 30, 2016, the Company’s holdings at the El Capitan Property consist of four (4) patented mining claims, covering approximately 77.5 acres (the “Patented Claims”), and twelve (112) lode claims with the BLM, covering approximately 2,240 acres (the “BLM Claims”). The Patented Claims and BLM Claims are held in the name of ECL and ECPN. The BLM Claims are Federal unpatented mining claims for locatable minerals and are located on public land and held pursuant to the General Mining Law of 1872, as amended. The Company fully owns the mining rights and believes the claims are in good standing in accordance with the mining laws of the United States.
To maintain our claims in good standing, for its Patented Claims the Company must pay annual property taxes to Lincoln County, and for its BLM Claims, the Company must pay annual assessment fees to the BLM and record the payment of rental fees with Lincoln County. The current year annual assessment and recording costs for our BLM Claims total approximately $25,560. The Company has paid the required assessment fees for 2016 assessment year (September 1, 2016 through August 31, 2017).
The Company has no underlying agreements or royalty agreements on any of its claims.
The map set forth below shows the location of our claims on the El Capitan Property as of September 30, 2016:
Permits
Pursuant to the New Mexico Mining Act, the MMD issued Permit No. L1005ME to ECL. The permit is a “minimal impact existing mining operation.” In 2015, the Company was issued a modified permit that increased the portion of the El Capitan Property on which we could conduct exploration activities from five acres to 40 acres The modified permit approval process required we increase the amount of our reclamation bond to $74,495.
The New Mexico Environmental Department issued our Air Quality Permit, NSR permit No. 5951 in November 2014.
Previous Operations
To our knowledge, prior to its acquisition by ECL, the property was last active in 1988. The property was previously drilled with a total of approximately 160 short core holes by the U,S, Bureau of Mines in 1944 and 1948. The results of this drilling showed that our patented claims contain a combined indicated and inferred resource of approximately 2.5 million short tons of potential iron ore containing an average 53.38% magnetite. This equates to a resource of approximately 1.34 million short tons of contained magnetite in the deposit. Reported analytical results on drill core show that magnetite in the deposit has an average of 66.82% TFe (percent total iron). From 1961 to 1988, to our knowledge, an estimated 250,000 tons of iron were produced on the property. Prior to December 2004, there had not been any significant exploration completed on the property. There had only been shallow drilling of the upper magnetite horizon, which was completed by the U.S. Bureau of Mines in 1944 and 1948, and additionally performed by ECL in 2005 and 2006. Additionally, there was geologic mapping of the property at a scale of 1:3,600 by Kelley in 1952.
There were no significant surface disturbances or contamination issues found on the surface or underground water due to the historical mining activities referred to above and no remediation has been required to be performed by the Company. However, the Company was required to provide, and has provided, a $15,000 financial assurance in connection with the issuance of our Permit No. L1005ME by the MMD.
Geology
The main El Capitan Property deposit is exposed in an open-pit and outcrops within a nearly circular 1,300 foot diameter area, with smaller bodies stretching eastward for a distance of up to 7,000 feet. The El Capitan Property includes two magnetite-dominant bodies. The upper magnetite zone lies below a limestone cap that is a few tens of feet thick, and that is bleached and fractured with hematite-calcite fracture filling. Hematite is an iron oxide mineral, and calcite is a calcium carbonate mineral. Below the limestone cap, there is a mineral deposit which consists mainly of calc-silicate minerals, or minerals which have various ratios of calcium, silicon and oxygen. Beneath the calc-silicate deposit is granite rock. The El Capitan Property has an abundance of hematite, which occurs with calcite in later stage fracture fillings, breccias (rock composed of sharp-angled fragments), and stockworks (multi-directional fractured rock containing veinlets of hydrothermally introduced materials).
Potential mineralization has been defined as two separate types: (i) magnetite iron, and (ii) hematite-calcite mineralized skarn and limestone, which may contain precious metals. By using core holes located at strategic points throughout the property, we have been able to develop subsurface information and define the mineralization. To date, there have been no proven commercial precious metals reserves on the El Capitan Property site. To establish “reserves” (as defined under Industry Guide 7 issued by the SEC), we will be required to establish that the property is commercially viable. As of September 30, 2015, we have not completed a feasibility study on the property, and thus cannot identify the economic significance of the property, if any, at this time.
Exploration
Historical
After a preliminary sampling and assay program in early 2005, the Company implemented three stages of diamond drilling and rotary drilling, totaling 45 holes between April 2005 and September 2006.
Stage 1 of the drilling program was completed between April and May 2005, and consisted of 1,391 feet drilled in 12 vertical core holes, with depths ranging from 38 to 142 feet. Between June and August 2005, we completed Stage 2 drilling, which consisted of both drilling in areas adjacent to some of the Stage 1 drilling holes and drilling in new target areas to the southwest of the main deposit site. Stage 2 drilling consisted of 1,204 feet of combined core and rotary footage in 10 vertical holes, ranging from 24.5 to 344.5 feet in depth. The Stage 3 drilling program began in February 2006 and was completed in May 2006. The program consisted of 23 vertical reverse drill holes totaling 9,685 feet and varying depths from 270 to 710 feet. Drill cuttings were sent to AuRIC and fusion assays of these holes were completed. The samples were collected and controlled under “Chain-of-Custody” by our outside quality control person.
Because caustic fusion is not a precious metal industry accepted assay technique, we retained M.H.S. Research of Lakewood, Colorado (“M.H.S.”) in August 2006 to research and develop a modified fire assay technique that we believe is more appropriate for the material from the El Capitan Property. Preliminary results to date by M.H.S. indicated values that meet or exceed the values obtained by AuRic. The principal of M.H.S. is Michael Thomas who had over thirty years of experience in geology and mining related area including extensive laboratory work in fire assaying, mineral processing and precious metals recovery. He also was an adjunct professor in the Mining Engineering Department at the Colorado School of Mines providing part-time instruction in mineral processing and fire assays.
We also retained the services of Dr. Clyde Smith to manage the exploration of the property. Dr. Smith is a Consulting Geologist who has over 30 years of experience in the mining industry. Dr. Smith holds a B.A. from Carleton College, a M.Sc. from the University of British Columbia, and a Ph.D. from the University of Idaho. Dr. Smith also served as a member of the Industrial Associates of the School of Earth Sciences at Stanford University for several years.
After several months of investigation into the composite sample from the El Capitan Property, M.H.S. results have shown the ability to readily produce ‘metal-in-hand’ using a minor modification of standard fire assay procedures. Mr. Thomas began testing various fire assay fluxes to improve the effectiveness and repeatability of the fire assay procedure on the specific rock matrix of this material. M.H.S. worked in these areas and performed multiple replicate tests on chain of custody composite material in order to establish a benchmark head grade for the composite sample. There can be no assurance that any mineral grade or recovery determined in a small scale laboratory test can or will be duplicated in larger tests under on-site conditions or during mineral exploration.
The Company has entered into agreements with various contractors (as referenced above) for exploration of the El Capitan Property. Each of the respective contractors utilizes its own equipment to complete such exploration and testing.
The Company has worked with third parties to analyze samples from the El Capitan Property to create an economically feasible recovery model for the El Capitan Property mineralized material. We have successfully utilized a repeatable concentration and recovery procedure, which is a modified fire assay technique, to allow evaluation of the mineralized material. Results using this procedure have been positive and show potential economically feasible mineralized material. The Company has not filed any geological reports on SEDAR for review by Canadian authorities and does not intend to do so.
The Company and Gold and Minerals Company, Inc. (“G&M”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, have incurred a total of $10,907,023 in exploration and mine development costs associated with the El Capitan Property. G&M incurred $5,275,916 in exploration costs from January 1, 1994 through January 19, 2011, at which time it was merged into the Company, and the Company has incurred $5,631,107 in exploration costs from its inception on July 26, 2002 through September 30, 2016. The foregoing exploration and mine development costs include costs associated with drilling, assaying, filing fees, extraction process development, consultant, geological, metallurgical, chemist, environmental and legal fees, and other miscellaneous property exploration costs have been expensed as required under the SEC Industry Guide 7.
Current
In 2014, we utilized and verified the three recovery processes on the El Capitan Property mineralized material: cyanide leaching utilizing various pre-step ore processing, silver - lead inquarting, and the fine grind and magnetic separation method. The final verification process is to ensure that value of the El Capitan Property mineralized materials is sufficient so that the costs of the recovery process are not prohibitive in comparison to the price of the precious metals recoverable at the El Capitan Property.
Based upon the test results that utilized the fine-grinding and separation method, we moved forward with our strategic plan for a limited-scale continued mineral exploration at the El Capitan Property site in New Mexico in support of the sale of that property. The chain-of-custody samples were finely milled and magnetically separated using specific gravity concentrating methodology from extraction testing represents the complete methodology - from samples to final mineralized materials without the use of cyanide.
In March 2014, we announced that the Company reached an agreement with Logistica US Terminals LLC (“Logistica”), a Texas-based limited liability company and member of LIT Group network. The contract, which is the first of several contracts with high-profile mining industry companies, supports the Company’s mineral exploration plans and represents a tactical initiative to support the marketing and potential sale of the El Capitan Property. Under the terms of a Master Service Agreement, Logistica has agreed to finance and operate the extraction of iron from mineralized materials at the El Capitan Property mine and provide the Company with a turnkey solution that also includes shipment of the iron to ports where buyers will take delivery. The contracts with Logistica were superseded by a new agreement entered into on January 5, 2016 to encompass our concentrated mineralized material.
In March 2014, we also announced that we reached an agreement with GlencoreXstrata for the purchase of iron from the El Capitan Property mine. Under the terms of the agreement, GlencoreXstrata committed to ongoing purchases of iron from the El Capitan Property. GlencoreXstrata will issue a Letter of Credit to guarantee payment on iron sales. Because of current market iron ore prices, the contract has not implemented
In late April 2014, we announced the purchase of a heavy metals separation system from AuraSource, Inc. that uses state-of-the-art technology to separate hematite and magnetite from other elements in the El Capitan Property mineralized deposits. The AuraSource system leaves a rich concentrate of mineralized material that we will use to extract precious metals. We have successfully completed the assembly and testing of the AuraSource heavy metals separation system at the El Capitan Property.
In May 2014, we announced recovery results of .40 of gold equivalent per ton of El Capitan Property samples. The precious metals processing was completed in China as part of testing related to the calibration and tuning of the heavy metals separation device that will be used on site at the El Capitan Property in New Mexico. After the separation of the hematite and magnetite from the El Capitan Property mineralized materials, an independent lab processed the precious metals that yielded the .40 of gold equivalent per ton of samples. Parameters used to calculate the economic value were 0.20, 3.2 and 0.25 ounces of gold, silver and palladium per ton, respectively, of mineralized material at the current market price.
The Company currently has methods for both the separation of the iron and the separation and recovery of mineralized material that have repeatedly yielded consistent and commercially viable economic value results. Yet another significant aspect of these breakthrough technologies for separation and recovery is that they are environmentally friendly and do not rely on the use of caustic chemicals.
We have a 5-acre minimal impact mining permit that can be used on our patented land and has been modified to encompass allowing exploration on 40 acres at a time on our patented land. The modified permit was issued on March 25, 2015. The Company’s Clean Air Permit was also issued in late November 2014.
In September 2014, we announced that we had reached an agreement for the sale of mineralized tailings from the El Capitan Property to a Hong Kong-based trading company. This agreement was not finalized due to a disagreement regarding which party would serve the importer of the mineralized materials. Other contributing factors to the delay on finalizing this contract were disputes involving unionized dock workers that hindered trade at international seaports on the West coast of the United States during the first and second quarters of 2015, and the subsequent downturn of the China economy later in 2015.
At September 30, 2015, the El Capitan Property has been prepared for mineral exploration with issuance of the modified minimal impact mining permit and other required permits on our patented land. Leased fencing encompasses the mineral exploration area and other criteria that the MMD has required and inspected. Mineral exploration will be conducted on open pit basis and no tunneling will be involved.
We engage third party consultants and companies to provide mineral exploration and analysis of samples. As part of its selection process, we take into account the quality assurance practices of such consultants and companies prior to engagement. Consequently, the Company has not created an independent quality assurance program.
Description of Equipment
We have purchased a heavy metals separation system from AuraSource, Inc that uses state-of-the-art technology to separate hematite and magnetite from other elements in the mineralized materials collected at the El Capitan Property. The AuraSource process separates the head ore into three products: iron ore, precious metals and middlings, which is mostly a waste product. The system does not use any water or toxic chemicals and utilizes complete green industrial extraction of precious metals. At full capacity, the machine can process up to 400 tons of mineralized material per hour. The Company built various protective coverings for the AuraSource machine and for storage of small tools and other related enhancements relative to our project.
The Company has purchased a water truck to transport water to the El Capitan Property pending the drilling on-site. We also have a mobile home situated on our patented land. The Company currently has no other material equipment or buildings on site.
From time to time, we have entered into agreements with various personnel and companies to conduct exploration projects on the El Capitan Property. Each of the respective companies utilizes its own equipment to perform contracted work at the El Capitan Property. Currently our contract miner has used various types of equipment on the El Capitan Property site, which has been rented to perform the required mining activities.
Other Properties
As previously reported, the Company has a 20% joint venture interest in the COD Property, an underground property located in the Cerbat mountains in Mohave County, Arizona, approximately 11 miles north, northwest of Kingman, Arizona. The Company entered into a joint venture agreement related to this property in May 2004. Based upon the events and financial condition of the 80% joint venture partner, we have determined that this joint venture is not viable and, as a result, the Company does not consider the COD Property to be a material property of the Company at this time.
Executive Offices and Administrative Offices
The executive and administrative office is at 5871 Honeysuckle Road, Prescott. Arizona 86305. The office premises are contributed free of charge by Mr. Stephen J. Antol, Chief Financial Officer for the Company. We believe that the offices are adequate to meet our current operational requirements. Other than our property as described above, we do not own any real property.
ITEM 3.