ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
Oil and Gas Properties
We have built our asset base through leasehold interest acquisitions that are geographically focused in Canada (Peace River, Berwyn and Medicine River, Alberta and Inga, British Columbia) and in the United States (Piqua, Kansas ).
Canadian Oil and Gas Properties
On October 20, 2011, Legend Canada completed the acquisition of the majority of the petroleum and natural gas leases, lands and facilities held by Wi2Wi, Inc., formerly known as, International Sovereign Energy Corp. The acquisition of the Wi2Wi Assets is discussed in more detail in Item 1 of this Report entitled “BUSINESS - Purchase of Canadian Assets.” The purchase price was CA$8,905,031 in cash and 3,552,516 Common Shares. The Wi2Wi Assets included producing oil and gas leasehold properties in Western Canada that have been maintained through the drilling of internally generated low to medium risk exploration and development sites. The principal natural gas leasehold properties are located in Medicine River and Berwyn in Alberta, and Clarke Lake in British Columbia. The Wi2Wi Assets also included an interest in various light oil properties consisting of Red Earth and Swan Hills in Alberta, both of which were sold in 2012, and Inga in British Columbia. Schedule 1 of the Asset Purchase Agreement contains a detailed description of the Wi2Wi Assets sold to Legend Canada.
We are evaluating the producing and non-producing acreage, for further drilling potential of these Canadian properties.
A summary discussion of the oil and gas leasehold properties held by Legend Canada follows.
Medicine River, Alberta
The Medicine River property contains a number of working interests in west central Alberta. Mineral rights vary on the acreage and production is taken from several productive zones within the acreage. Most of the gas production is taken from the shallow Edmonton sands, with oil produced from the Viking sandstone and Pekisko carbonate sections. The Medicine River area is emerging as a resource play area in the Viking sandstone with a number of wells drilled by other companies in close proximity to Legend Canada properties. We are monitoring the activity on these lands in order to determine the timing and strategy relating to horizontal resource drilling potential on Legend Canada properties in the area.
Berwyn, Alberta
The Berwyn property is located in northwestern Alberta. It is comprised of 2,560 acres of land with mineral royalty subject only to Crown, upon which three gas wells have been drilled to test the localized structural features defined by seismic. The stacked nature of the productive gas sands and the significant rates of gas production are expected to facilitate development of additional gas reserves in the area.
Joarcam, Alberta
Legend Canada recently acquired an interest in over 5,760 gross mineral acres in the Joarcam area of central Alberta as part of a joint venture with a third party, and has jointly drilled two test wells into the Viking sandstone formation. Legend Canada has a 40% working interest in the land and wells subject to Alberta Crown royalty. As of the date of this Report, currently one well is producing light oil at a rate of 5 BOPD with 2 BOPD net to Legend Canada. Additional mineral lands were acquired in a land sale during July 2011 which increased Legend Canada’s interest in the properties to seven sections. Additional vertical wells are being contemplated to more fully develop the acreage, while a horizontal drilling program is being considered in the lowermost Viking “C” sandstone formation, which has been successfully developed by other companies to the northwest at Redwater, Alberta.
Clarke Lake, British Columbia
Clarke Lake is a non-operated gas property in northeastern British Columbia. As of the date of this Report, the property currently produces almost 350 MCF/d, approximately 58 Boepd, net to Legend Canada’s interest. There is little additional development potential expected on the Clarke Lake property.
Other Properties in Alberta and British Columbia
Legend Canada owns a number of minor working interest properties in both Alberta and British Columbia. In total these properties produce a little over 20 Boepd, mostly in oil. Minor development potential is anticipated on these properties. Inga, British Columbia is the major producing property in this group with net production of 9.0 BOPD.
Undeveloped Properties
In addition to the producing properties mentioned above, Legend Canada also owns leases of undeveloped acreage with varying lease terms remaining. The total number of undeveloped acres is currently 29,296 gross acres (22,265 net).
U.S. Oil and Gas Properties
Our oil and gas property interests in the United States are located in the Piqua region of the State of Kansas. A summary discussion of these U.S. properties follows:
Piqua, Kansas
On October 29, 2010, we completed our first acquisition of an oil and gas property with the purchase of the entire working interest, representing 87.5% of the revenue interest, of certain oil and gas leases held by Piqua Petro Inc., a Kansas corporation, located in Piqua, Kansas (“Piqua”). The acquired leases contain 1,040 net acres with 33 active oil and water injection wells in Woodson County, Kansas. The property is located in the Humboldt-Chanute field producing in the Bartlesville-Squirrel formation at a depth of 740 to 850 feet. The purchase price was approximately $625,000.
Some of the development options for the Piqua properties include infill drilling, water flooding, well bore cleanout, and other drilling on lightly developed producing leases. No significant development had taken place on the leased sites since 2006, so our initial activities focused on maintaining the existing wells and the tie-in of shut in locations.
The main production fairway is contained within the Ellis, Bennett and Orth-Gillespie leases, where additional development locations can be drilled in an effort to more fully develop the Squirrel sand reservoir. Neither the Ellis nor the Orth-Gillespie leases have adequate water injection to provide the necessary pressure support. We intend to either convert existing wells or drill new locations in an effort to improve the pressure support provided by these injectors.
Beginning in June 2011, we drilled three additional wells on the Orth-Gillespie leased property with the objective of increasing the number of development wells and related production from the Squirrel sand reservoir. In addition, the wells were drilled in order to more fully delineate the producing pool and to increase our understanding of the distribution of the Squirrel reservoir. The results of two of the wells suggested similar thickness in reservoir on the eastern side of the Piqua property with measurable oil shows in both wells. The third well, which was drilled on the west side of the property, presented a thicker overall squirrel zone with additional oil. In addition to the drilling of these wells, we also re-completed a standing well located on an adjacent lease in the Squirrel reservoir zone. All four wells are currently producing oil.
Three additional wells commenced drilling during December 2011 and were put online during January 2012.
Four wells were drilled in Piqua in 2012. Two were drilled on the Gillespie South lease and two on the Cress lease to the east. Each of these resulted in successful oil wells and were put on line in September 2012. The Cress locations further delineated the eastern extent of the Squirrel sand and helped to identify the potential for 8 new well locations on the lease.
Assuming financing to fund development, we plan to resume the twenty well program which was begun in 2012. Drilling, completion and equipment costs for wells at the Piqua properties are expected to be approximately $30,000 per well.
On November 12, 2013, the Company entered into an Agreement for Purchase and Sale with Black Oak Oil and Gas, LLC, to purchase certain oil and gas producing assets held by Black Oak and located in McCune, Kansas. These assists consist of (i) Black Oil's petroleum and natural gas rights, (ii) land and land leases totaling approximately 1,097 acres, and (iii) various vehicles and equipment used on the land.
Divide County, North Dakota
On February 25, 2011, after evaluating and studying various opportunities, we completed the acquisition of seven leaseholds on land in Divide County, North Dakota totaling 3,840 gross acres (net 167.11 acres) with all mineral rights including the Bakken and Three Forks formations. During 2012, we disposed of our working interest in this property for net proceeds of $397,000 and retained a 1% royalty interest over all of the Bakken lands for the duration of the lease term.
Disclosure of Reserves
Our proved crude oil and natural gas reserves are located in Canada and the United States.
InSite Petroleum Consultants Ltd. evaluated the reserve estimates prepared by us for the Canadian properties as of December 31, 2013 and prepared a report with its conclusions. A copy of the InSite reserve report attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. InSite is an independent expert engineering, geological, technical and advisory company providing services to the oil and gas industry throughout the world. Each of InSite’s professionals has over 25 years of experience in the oil and gas industry. InSite’s report is intended to be compliant with SEC Regulations S-X and S-K, for the purpose of disclosure requirements. InSite utilizes the latest available technology and engineering software that incorporates all current regulatory details.
The estimated reserves for our U.S. oil and gas properties as of December 31, 2013, are based upon a reserves report prepared by the independent licensed petroleum engineering firm of KLH Consulting, located in Wichita, Kansas. The KLH reserve report is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. KLH is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and the Kansas Independent Oil and Gas Association, and its professionals have over 35 years of experience in the oil and gas industry. KLH has served companies with oil and gas properties located in several states throughout the south and midwest regions of the United States, including the Piqua, Kansas formations, and, as such, we believe KLH has sufficient experience to appropriately assess our reserves.
The reserve data set forth in the reports and in this Report represents only estimates, and should not be construed as being exact quantities. They may or may not be actually recovered, and if recovered, the actual revenues and costs could be more or less than the estimated amounts. Moreover, estimates of reserves may increase or decrease as a result of future operations.
KLH and InSite used all assumptions, data, methods and procedures they considered necessary and appropriate under the circumstances to prepare their estimates. The reserves set forth in their reports for the properties are estimated by performance methods or analogy. In general, reserves attributable to producing wells and reservoirs are estimated by performance methods such as decline curve analysis which utilizes extrapolations of historical production data. Reserves attributable to non-producing and undeveloped reserves included in the reports are estimated by analogy. The estimates of the reserves, future production, and income attributable to properties are prepared based on the reserve definitions set out in Rule 4-10(a) in SEC Regulation S-X and, in the case of KLH, using the economic software package Aries for Windows, a copyrighted program of Halliburton, and in the case of InSite, Mosaic software consistent with the COGE (Canadian Oil and Gas Evaluation) handbook.
The KLH and InSite reports summarize conclusions made by them with respect to the reserves estimates. To estimate economically recoverable crude oil and natural gas reserves, many factors and assumptions were considered, including the use of reservoir parameters derived from geological, geophysical and engineering data which cannot be measured directly, economic criteria based on current costs and SEC pricing requirements, and forecasts of future of production rates. Under applicable SEC regulations, proved reserves must be demonstrated to be economically producible based on existing economic conditions including the prices and costs at which economic production from a reservoir is to be determined as of the effective date of the report. With respect to the property interests we own, production and well tests from examined wells, normal direct costs of operating the wells or leases, other costs such as transportation and processing fees, production taxes, recompletion and development costs and product prices are based on SEC regulations, geological maps, well logs, core analyses, and pressure measurements.
Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values, including many factors beyond our control. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geologic interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by us, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing crude oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and other factors. The revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of crude oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered and are highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based. Our estimated net proved reserves, included in our SEC filings, have not been filed with or included in reports to any other federal agency. See Item 1A of this Report above entitled “RISK FACTORS - estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves may be inaccurate and our actual revenues may be lower than our financial projections.”
Federal, state and provincial regulations governing protection of the environment may prevent the Company from recovering the estimated reserves disclosed in this section of the Report. For a discussion of the main federal laws and regulations in the United States and Canada in place to protect the environment, see the subsection of this Annual Report above entitled “DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS - Governmental Regulation,” which disclosure is incorporated herein by reference.
Summary of Oil and Gas Reserves as of December 31, 2013
The following table sets forth certain information relating to our U.S. and Canadian estimated net reserves as of December 31, 2013. The information with respect to our U.S. properties is based on the KLH reserve report as of December 31, 2013, and the information with respect to our Canadian properties is based on the InSite reserve report as of December 31, 2013.
Probable Reserves
Estimates of probable reserves are inherently imprecise. When producing an estimate of the amount of oil and gas that is recoverable from a particular reservoir, an estimated quantity of probable reserves is an estimate of those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered. Estimates of probable reserves are also continually subject to revisions based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes and other factors.
When deterministic methods are used, it is as likely as not that actual remaining quantities recovered will exceed the sum of estimated proved plus probable reserves. When probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 50% probability that the actual quantities recovered will equal or exceed the proved plus probable reserves estimates. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas of a reservoir adjacent to proved reserves where data control or interpretations of available data are less certain, even if the interpreted reservoir continuity of structure or productivity does not meet the reasonable certainty criterion. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir. Probable reserves estimates also include potential incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than assumed for proved reserves.
Controls Over Reserve Estimates
Compliance as it relates to reporting both our Canadian reserves and our U.S. reserves is the responsibility of Mr. Diamond-Goldberg, our President and principal technical representative, who has over 30 years of industry experience. In addition to his years of experience, Mr. Diamond-Goldberg holds a degree in petroleum geology with a strong background in asset evaluation and management.
With respect to our U.S. properties, our control over reserves estimates included retaining KLH as our independent petroleum and geological firm. The engineer responsible for overseeing the reserve study at KLH is a licensed petroleum engineer in both Kansas and Missouri. Further professional qualifications include a degree in petroleum engineering and being a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and Kansas Independent Oil and Gas Association. We provided KLH with information about our oil and gas properties, including production profiles, prices and costs, and KLH prepared its own estimates of the reserves attributable to the Piqua properties. All of the information regarding reserves on our Piqua properties in this Report is derived from KLH’s report.
With respect to our Canadian properties, our control over reserves estimates included retaining InSite as our independent petroleum and geological auditing firm. We provided InSite with information about our oil and gas properties, including production profiles, prices and costs, and InSite reviewed our estimates of the reserves attributable to the oil and gas properties. InSite is an independent expert engineering, geological, technical and advisory company providing services to the oil and gas industry throughout the world. Each of InSite’s professionals has over 25 years of experience in the oil and gas industry. Prior to our acquisition of the Canadian properties in October 2011, InSite served as the management independent petroleum and geological firm for Wi2Wi and had prepared a prior report on the properties for the prior year ended December 31, 2010. We retained InSite for reporting on our Canadian reserves at December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, because of their familiarity with the properties and their expertise in our industry. All of the information on Canadian oil and gas reserves in this Report is derived from InSite’s report.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
U.S. Properties
At December 31, 2013, we estimated that we had proved undeveloped reserves (PUDs) of 45.1 MBOE for our U.S. properties, which accounted for 42% of our total estimated U.S. proved oil and gas reserves. The following table discloses our PUDs during 2013.
Beginning late in June 2011, we drilled three wells consecutively on the Orth-Gillespie leased property with the objective of increasing the number of development wells drilled into the Squirrel sand reservoir. In addition, we wanted to see if the pool could be more fully delineated and increase our understanding of the thickest part of the Squirrel reservoir. The results of the drilling the wells suggested similar thickness in reservoir on the eastern side of the leased property with measurable oil shows in both wells. The third well, which was drilled on the west side of the leased property, presented a thicker overall Squirrel zone with additional oil. As this well is further south than the previously drilled wells, production information from the well will determine the development potential to the south, where only a few wells had been drilled prior to our acquisition of the leaseholds. All three wells were hydraulically fractured at the beginning of August 2011, and were placed on production in mid-August. In addition to the drilling of these wells, we also re-completed a standing well located on an adjacent lease in the Squirrel reservoir zone. All four wells are currently producing oil.
Three additional wells commenced drilling during December 2011 and were put online during January 2012.
Four wells were drilled in Piqua in 2012, each of which were successful and were put on line in September 2012.
Four wells were drilled and placed into production during August and September 2013 on the Pat Collins lease at our Piqua property. The four wells were successfully drilled and added to the knowledge base on the lightly drilled lease. New PUD locations were identified by this drilling.
Funding for the drilling of the Pat Collins wells was provided through the debenture financing with Hillair Capital Corp. in July 2013. This financing was earmarked for the resumption of the Company’s 20 well drilling program on the Piqua property begun in 2012. Drilling, completion and equipment costs for wells at the Piqua properties are expected to be approximately $30,000 per well.
Canadian Properties
At December 31, 2013, we estimated that we had proved undeveloped reserves (PUDs) of 0.0 MBoe for our Canadian properties, which was due to the divestitures of the properties previously containing the PUDs. The following table discloses our progress toward the conversion of PUDs during 2013.
Production Volumes
The following tables set forth certain information regarding the production volumes of oil and natural gas for the periods indicated for the Canadian properties.
(1)
For the period from October 20, 2011 through December 31, 2011
The following table sets forth certain information regarding our United States production volumes of oil and natural gas for the periods indicated.
(1)
For the period from January 1, 2011 through October 20, 2011
The following table sets forth certain information regarding our United States production volumes of oil and natural gas for the periods indicated.
Drilling and Development Activity
The following table sets forth wells drilled and completed during the periods indicated on our U.S. oil and gas properties.
Productive Wells and Acreage
The following tables summarize our total oil wells by type and gross and net productive hydrocarbon wells by country as of December 31, 2013. A net well represents our percentage ownership of a gross well. The following table does not include wells which were awaiting completion, in the process of completion or awaiting flowback subsequent to fracture stimulation.
The following table sets forth our undeveloped and developed gross and net leasehold acreage at December 31, 2013. Undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves.
Title to Properties
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our U.S. and Canadian properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. Our properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens, which we believe do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties. Prior to acquiring undeveloped properties, we perform a title investigation that is thorough but less vigorous than that conducted prior to drilling, which is consistent with standard practice in the oil and gas industry. Before we commence drilling operations, we conduct a thorough title examination and perform curative work with respect to significant defects before proceeding with operations. We have performed a thorough title examination with respect to substantially all of our active properties.
In connection Legend Canada’s acquisition of the Wi2Wi Assets, we performed thorough due diligence with respect to the properties. In particular, we engaged a third-party firm to perform title review of the properties. We also reviewed all lease documents, including lease operating statements identifying production, royalties, operating expense and net revenues. We further performed site inspections as we determined necessary.
Delivery Commitments
We currently have no delivery commitments for product obtained from our wells in Canada or the U.S.
Dry Holes
We have not experienced any dry holes.
ITEM 3.