ITEM 2. Properties
Our principal executive offices are located in approximately 4,700 square feet of leased office space in Nashville, Tennessee. We also lease approximately 32,000 square feet in Westlake Village, California, approximately 6,300 square feet in Santa Barbara, California, approximately 9,600 square feet in Minden, Nevada, approximately 16,000 square feet in Phoenix, Arizona, approximately 2,300 square feet in Novi, Michigan, and approximately 13,500 square feet in Akron, Ohio. We believe that these facilities are adequate for our current operations and, if necessary, can be replaced with little disruption to our business.
Litigation
Robert Aguilard, et al., on behalf of themselves and all persons similarly situated v. E-Commerce Exchange, Inc., A-1 Leasing LLC, and Duvera Billing Services, Civil Action No. 05CC02794 - State of California, Superior Court of Orange County.
This matter, was initially reported in our Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2004, previously filed on Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 24, 2005 and was last updated in our Quarterly Report for the second quarter ended June 30, 2009, filed on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 14, 2009. As we previously reported, on June 4, 2009, the Court issued a Final Order Approving Settlement and Final Judgment of Dismissal (“Final Judgment”) of this matter. The Final Judgment became final on August 4, 2009, and all claims against us in the subject litigation have been fully settled, released and all claims have been dismissed. The terms of the settlement did not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. All matters related to the Litigation were concluded in December 2009.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Plaintiff, v. iPayment, Inc. ,and NPMG Acquisition Sub, LLC, a Delaware corporation, United States District Court for the District of Arizona, Case No.: CV 08-1790-PHX-SRB
This matter was previously reported in our Quarterly Report for the second quarter ended June 30, 2009, filed on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 14, 2009 and was last updated in our Quarterly Report for the third quarter ended September 30, 2009, filed on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 13, 2009. As we last reported on this matter, the parties agreed to terms of a Consent Decree for the settlement of the claims asserted against us and our subsidiary, NPMG Acquisition Sub, LLC, in the subject litigation and the litigation was concluded in September 2009. The total amount payable pursuant to the Consent Decree did not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Bruns v. E-Commerce Exchange Inc., et al, Orange County Superior Court, State of California, Case No. 00CC02450 (coordinated under the caption “TCPA Cases,” Los Angeles County Superior Court, State of California, Case No. JCCO 43500)
The Bruns lawsuit was previously reported in our Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2007, previously filed on Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 14, 2008, and was last updated in our Quarterly Report for the third quarter ended September 30, 2009, filed on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 13, 2009. As previously reported, this matter arises from a lawsuit filed in February 2000 by plaintiff Dana Bruns on her own behalf and on behalf of a purported class of persons in California who, during the five years prior to filing the lawsuit, allegedly received fax transmissions from third-party defendant Fax.Com and its advertisers, including our subsidiary, E-Commerce Exchange, Inc. (“ECX”). The complaint, as amended, alleges that the defendants sent “fax blast” transmissions to telephone facsimile machines in violation of the provisions of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (“TCPA”) and seeks relief under the TCPA and/or under California’s Unfair Competition Act, Business & Professions Code and for negligence, including for injunctive relief, damages and monetary relief, attorney’s fees and costs of suit and other relief deemed proper. In December 2006, ECX and other defendants filed a Motion for Mandatory Dismissal of this lawsuit which the Court granted and subsequently issued an Order of Final Judgment dismissing the litigation with prejudice, which the plaintiff subsequently appealed. In March 2009, the Appellate Court reversed the Order of Final Judgment issued by the Trial Court and we and other defendants filed a petition for review with the California Supreme Court, seeking a review of the Appellate Court decision. Since we last reported on this matter, briefing on the merits review with the California Supreme Court was completed on January 21, 2010. The California Supreme Court has not set a date for oral argument, but our current understanding is that oral argument will likely be scheduled for either sometime later this year or for sometime in the first half of 2011.
We continue to believe that the claims asserted against us in the Bruns lawsuit are without merit and that the Trial Court properly granted our Motion for Mandatory Dismissal and that dismissal of the case was mandated. At this time, we cannot predict with any certainty how the California Supreme Court might rule, nor can we predict, in the event appellate relief is ordered, the likely outcome it may have on the lawsuit and the claims asserted against us. In the event the Appellate Court is affirmed, we currently intend to continue to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful or prevail in
our defense, or in the event we are not successful and judgment is awarded against us, that the Bruns lawsuit claims will be covered by insurance or that any amounts that may be due from insurance coverage will be available for payment of claims, or sufficient to fully satisfy a judgment awarded against us (ECX), and, therefore, there can be no assurance that a failure to prevail will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Since we last reported on the Bruns lawsuit, on or about January 29, 2010, a related declaratory judgment action was filed by Truck Insurance Exchange against ECX and Dana Bruns (individually and as alleged class representative of all others similarly situated) (the “TIC Declaratory Action”). As we earlier reported in the underlying Bruns lawsuit, ECX tendered the Bruns lawsuit claim in early 2000 to Truck Insurance Exchange, a member of Farmers Insurance Group of Companies (“TIC”) under a policy then in effect that provides up to $2,000,000 for “covered” claims and claim defense, and in April 2000, TIC agreed, subject to a reservation of rights, to assume the defense of ECX in the litigation and has paid all costs of defense since April 2000. In the TIC Declaratory Action, TIC asserts that the insurance policies issued to ECX did not cover the claims alleged in the underlying Bruns lawsuit, and it therefore seeks judicial determinations that (a) it does not have a duty to defend ECX in the underlying Bruns lawsuit; (b) that it may withdraw from the defense of ECX in the underlying Bruns Lawsuit; and (c) that it owes no duty to indemnify ECX for any settlement reached or judgment entered in the underlying Bruns Lawsuit. TIC also seeks to recover against ECX a monetary judgment in an amount to be determined at trial that is equal to the costs and expenses incurred by TIC in defending ECX in the Bruns lawsuit.
We only recently engaged legal counsel to represent ECX in the TIC Declaratory Action and we have not had the opportunity to fully consult with our attorneys on this matter. Our response to the complaint is currently required to be filed on or before March 19, 2010. Based on our current understanding of the matter, we expect to timely respond to the complaint filed by TIC and to vigorously defend ourselves. At this time the ultimate outcome of this TIC Declaratory Action and our potential liability associated with such, or the likely effect it may have on our defense of the underlying Bruns lawsuit and the claims asserted against us cannot be predicted with certainty, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful or prevail in our defenses, or in the event that we are not successful, that a failure to prevail will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Sharyn’s Jewelers, LLC v. iPayment, Inc., iPayment of Valencia, Vericomm and JP Morgan Chase Bank, General Court of Justice, Superior Court Division, County of Carteret, State of North Carolina, File No.: 05-CVS-92 / and related case Judgment Recovery Group, LLC, as assignee of Sharyn’s Jewelers, LLC, v. iPayment, Inc., iPayment of Valencia, Vericomm, and JP Morgan Chase Bank, Superior Court of the State of California, County of Los Angeles, Case No.: PS 009919
These related matters were initially reported in our Quarterly Report for the third quarter ended September 30, 2007, filed on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 13, 2007 and was last updated in our Quarterly Report for the third quarter ended September 30, 2009, filed on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 13, 2009. As previously reported, these matters relate to a lawsuit filed in January 2005 in North Carolina by plaintiff Sharyn’s Jewelers, LLC, a merchant, naming as defendants, iPayment, Inc. and iPayment of Valencia (the “iPayment Defendants”) and third parties Vericomm, an independent outside sales organization, and JPMorgan Chase Bank (“Chase”). In April 2006, plaintiff obtained a “default judgment” against us (and Vericomm) awarding compensatory damages of $74,600 , attorneys fees of $35,100, and punitive damages of $250,000, imposing joint and several liability, for a total judgment amount of $359,700 (the “North Carolina Judgment”). Plaintiff then assigned its judgment to Judgment Recovery Group, LLC (“JRG”) and, on or about August 9, 2007, JRG commenced an action in California state court (the “California Action”) for entry of sister state judgment (the “Sister State Judgment”) in the amount of $404,200. We timely filed a motion to vacate the California-issued Sister State Judgment and filed an application to “stay” enforcement of the judgment, pending a December 18, 2007 hearing on our motion to vacate. The court granted our application and “stayed” enforcement of the judgment, pending the hearing set for December 18, 2007. Prior to the December hearing date, the parties entered into a stipulation, to “stay” the California proceedings pending the final outcome of all challenges filed in North Carolina on the underlying North Carolina Judgment. Vericomm filed an appeal in North Carolina of the North Carolina Judgment and in April 2009, the North Carolina Court of Appeals vacated the default judgment imposing liability on Vericomm for punitive damages, unfair and deceptive trade practices, attorneys’ fees and injunctive relief and affirmed the judgment’s award of compensatory damages against Vericomm. On June 12, 2009, JRG filed in the California Action a proposed Amended Judgment against Vericomm in the amount of $93,500 and against the iPayment Defendants, jointly and severally, in the amount of $452,800, which the Court signed and entered on June 12, 2009 (the “California Amended Judgment”). We and Vericomm each filed a Motion to Vacate the California Amended Judgment.
Since we last reported on these related matters, on or about December 14, 2009, the North Carolina trial court entered the Amended Judgment. On January 19, 2010, the California court set March 15, 2010 as the hearing date for any motions to vacate. On February 19, 2010, we and Vericomm each timely filed a motion to vacate the California-issued Sister State Judgment, as amended. At the March 15, 2010 hearing on the motions to vacate the California-issued Sister State Judgment, as amended the Court ruled that JRG needs to domesticate the latest amended judgment issued by the trial court in North Carolina before the California court can do anything, and therefore JRG must file a new application for entry of sister state judgment and, if that is completed, we will have 30 days to file our motion to vacate. We currently intend to continue to vigorously defend ourselves in the California court matter. If JRG files for entry of sister state judgment based on the latest amended judgment issued by the trial court in North Carolina, we currently intend to file a motion to vacate and we continue to believe that we have grounds to have any California-issued Sister State Judgment vacated or modified or to obtain substantial relief from enforcement in California of any such Sister State Judgment entered against us on the amended North Carolina Judgment. There can be no assurance that we will be successful or prevail in our defense, or that a failure to prevail will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Employment Development Department of the State of California, Notice of Assessment No. 00008
This matter was initially reported in our Quarterly Report for the third quarter ended September 30, 2007, filed on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 13, 2007, and was last updated in our Quarterly Report for the third quarter ended September 30, 2009, filed on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 13, 2009. As previously reported, this matter relates to a Notice of Assessment No. 00008 (dated July 10, 2007) sent to our wholly-owned subsidiary, iPayment of California, LLC (“iPOC”) by the Employment Development Department of the State of California (“EDD”) for amounts claimed to be due arising during the period starting April 1, 2004 and ending March 31, 2007. The Notice of Assessment stated that we had been assessed approximately $1.4 million, plus an additional $0.1 million for accrued interest billed to the date assessed (the “Assessment”) due to a determination by the EDD, following an audit, that during the covered period we improperly classified and treated certain individuals as independent contractors rather than as employees, and therefore, failed to properly report amounts paid as “wages,” failed to withhold (and deposit) amounts for certain employee contributions on said wages, including withholdings for California personal income tax, and failed to remit amounts for employer contributions otherwise due on these “unreported wages.”
As we have previously reported, we have been working with the EDD auditor that issued the Assessment to resolve the Assessment. In August 2009, the EDD auditor that issued the Assessment conducted a voluntary tax audit review conference with our representative and based on the records and information examined during the conference, the Auditor requested that we submit certain additional records and information relating to 2007 that would further support our position for the abatement of the Assessment. Since we last reported on this matter, we submitted the additional requested records and information to the EDD auditor and have continued to communicate with the EDD auditor as well as with the EDD employee assigned to our account by the EDD Sacramento collections division.
Based upon our February 2010 communications and correspondence with the EDD Auditor, we currently expect to have another voluntary tax audit review conference with the EDD Auditor during the month of April 2010. Although we are still currently subject to the Assessment, based upon our most recent communication and correspondence with the EDD, we currently believe that the EDD has, for the present time, deferred taking any further “collection” action, in order to provide us and the EDD auditor additional time to resolve the Assessment. Although the results cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe, based on information currently available, that the ultimate outcome of this matter and our liability associated therewith should not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. However, the results cannot be predicted with certainty and in the event of unexpected future developments or additional information, it is possible that this matter could be unfavorable to us, and there can be no assurance that a failure to prevail will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Other- Merrick Bank
This matter was initially reported in our Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2006, filed on Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 8, 2007, and was last updated in our Quarterly Report for the third quarter ended September 30, 2009, filed on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 13, 2009. As previously reported, Merrick Bank, one of our sponsor banks, incurred certain Visa/MasterCard fines related to a third party processor in 2005. Merrick withheld certain funds from us related to the Visa/MasterCard fines, and we have been in a dispute with Merrick since 2005 regarding our liability to them for such fines.
In a separate and unrelated claim, Merrick advised us of a certain loss liability totaling less than $0.5 million. Merrick deducted the amount of such loss from the withheld funds, and we submitted a claim to our insurance carrier seeking coverage under our then current policy. As of September 30, 2007, we had reserved half of the $0.5 million in our Consolidated Income Statements. Since we last reported on this matter, the settlement agreement with our insurance carrier was finalized and we received payment of the settlement funds.
We intend to continue to investigate our responsibility to Merrick with regards to the Visa/MasterCard fines. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in defending our claim that we are not responsible for such fines. As of December 31, 2008, we had reserved $0.3 million, or 50% of the net amount of our funds held by Merrick Bank, in our Consolidated Income Statements. As of December 31, 2009 we have reserved the remaining $0.3 million. There are no other updates at this time on the status of this matter. Although the ultimate outcome of this disputed matter and our liability associated with such cannot be predicted with certainty, based on information currently available, in our opinion, the outcome is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Other - Contract Related
During the past several months we have received a series of settlement communications from counsel for one of our Independent Sales Groups (“ISG’s”). This ISG claims that since October 2006, we have not correctly calculated, reported and paid certain residual compensation in accordance with the terms of our contract, and that, we, directly or indirectly, engaged in certain activities, such as purportedly terminating merchants, in a manner that the ISG believes wrongfully interfered with some merchant relationships which deprived it from being paid residual compensation for such merchants in violation of the terms of our contract. We have also advised this ISG that we are currently investigating whether the ISG is in breach of its contractual obligations to us. The ISG asserting these disputed claims has been an ISG of ours for over eight years, and continues to use our services and continues to submit new merchant applications to us for processing.
Although we have not completed our investigation of the facts or our review of all relevant information, records and documents
that may be associated with these disputed matters, based on our present understanding of the factual and legal matters related to these disputed claims, we currently believe that the claim that we violated the ISG’s contractual rights by purportedly terminating various merchants in a manner that interfered with these merchant relationships lacks merit and we currently believe that, with respect to the claim that we have not correctly calculated, reported and paid residual compensation, any such errors that may be conclusively established will be limited in nature, and any potential underpayment is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
These disputed claims and matters are currently not in litigation; however, the communications made to us have included threats of litigation. This ISG has proposed terms for an amicable resolution of these disputed claims which include terms that would require us to purchase the future residual income rights that may become due to the ISG under the contract. Although we disagree with the assertions and claims made against us, we currently intend to continue our efforts to reach an amicable resolution to these matters. Our contract with this ISG requires that disputes be submitted first to non-binding mediation and, if not resolved, then to binding arbitration with the American Arbitration Association. If an amicable resolution is not successful and litigation is commenced, we currently intend to vigorously defend ourselves and we currently believe that we will have meritorious defenses to these disputed claims. Based on information currently available, in our opinion, the ultimate outcome of these disputed matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, the results cannot be predicted with certainty and in the event of unexpected future developments, including if these claims are asserted in litigation, it is possible that this matter could be adjudicated against us and there can be no assurance that failure to prevail would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
We are also subject to certain other legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of our business and have not been fully adjudicated. Although the ultimate outcome of these other legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, based on information currently available, advice of counsel, and available insurance coverage, in our opinion, the outcome of such legal proceedings is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, the results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and in the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of one or more of these matters could be unfavorable. Should we fail to prevail in any of these legal matters or should several of these legal matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, our consolidated financial position or operating results could be materially adversely affected. Regardless of the outcome, any litigation may require us to incur significant litigation expenses and may result in significant diversion of management’s attention. All litigation settlements are recorded within other expense on our Consolidated Income Statements.
ITEM 4.