Item 2 Properties
Title to Properties
The following map shows the general locations of our coal reserves and related infrastructure investments and our natural gas gathering and processing systems as of December 31, 2007:
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our properties and the associated coal reserves in accordance with standards generally accepted in the coal and natural resource management and natural gas midstream industries.
Facilities
Our general partner provides all of our office space, except for a field office that we own near Charleston, West Virginia.
Coal Reserves and Production
As of December 31, 2007, we owned or controlled approximately 818 million tons of proven and probable coal reserves located on approximately 397,000 acres (including fee and leased acreage) in Illinois, Kentucky, New Mexico, Virginia and West Virginia. Our coal reserves are in various surface and underground mine seams located on the following properties:
•
Central Appalachia Basin: properties located in eastern Kentucky, southwestern Virginia and southern West Virginia;
•
Northern Appalachia Basin: properties located in northern West Virginia;
•
Illinois Basin: properties located in southern Illinois and western Kentucky; and
•
San Juan Basin: properties located in the four corners area of New Mexico.
Coal reserves are coal tons that can be economically extracted or produced at the time of determination considering legal, economic and technical limitations. All of the estimates of our coal reserves are classified as proven and probable reserves. Proven and probable reserves are defined as follows:
Proven Reserves. Proven reserves are reserves for which: (i) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (ii) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (iii) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely, and the geologic character is so well defined, that the size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well-established.
Probable Reserves. Probable reserves are reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are more widely spaced or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
In areas where geologic conditions indicate potential inconsistencies related to coal reserves, we perform additional exploration to ensure the continuity and mineability of the coal reserves. Consequently, sampling in those areas involves drill holes or channel samples that are spaced closer together than those distances cited above.
Coal reserve estimates are adjusted annually for production, unmineable areas, acquisitions and sales of coal in place. The majority of our coal reserves are high in energy content, low in sulfur and suitable for either the steam or metallurgical market.
The amount of coal that a lessee can profitably mine at any given time is subject to several factors and may be substantially different from “proven and probable reserves.” Included among the factors that influence profitability are the existing market price, coal quality and operating costs.
Our lessees mine coal using both underground and surface methods. As of December 31, 2007, our lessees operated 27 surface mines and 33 underground mines. Approximately 53% of the coal produced from our properties in 2007 came from underground mines and 47% came from surface mines. Most of our lessees use the continuous mining method in all of their underground mines located on our properties. In continuous mining, main airways and transportation entries are developed and remote-controlled continuous miners extract coal from “rooms,” leaving “pillars” to support the roof. Shuttle cars transport coal to a conveyor belt for transportation to the surface. In several underground mines, our lessees use two continuous miners running at the same time, also known as a supersection, to improve productivity and reduce unit costs.
Two of our lessees use the longwall mining method to mine underground reserves. Longwall mining uses hydraulic jacks or shields, varying from four feet to twelve feet in height, to support the roof of the mine while a mobile cutting shearer advances through the coal. Chain conveyors then move the coal to a standard deep mine conveyor belt system for delivery to the surface. Continuous mining is used to develop access to long rectangular panels of coal that are mined with longwall equipment, allowing controlled caving behind the advancing machinery. Longwall mining is typically highly productive when used for large blocks of medium to thick coal seams.
Surface mining methods used by our lessees include auger and highwall mining to enhance production, improve reserve recovery and reduce unit costs. On our San Juan Basin property, a combination of the dragline and truck-and-shovel surface mining methods is used to mine the coal. Dragline and truck-and-shovel mining uses large capacity machines to remove overburden to expose the coal seams. Wheel loaders then load the coal in haul trucks for transportation to a loading facility.
Our lessees’ customers are primarily electric utilities, also referred to as “steam” markets. Coal produced from our properties is transported by rail, barge and truck, or a combination of these means of transportation. Coal from the Virginia portion of the Wise property and the Buchanan property is primarily shipped to electric utilities in the Southeast by the Norfolk Southern railroad. Coal from the Kentucky portion of the Wise property is primarily shipped to electric utilities in the Southeast by the CSX railroad. Coal from the Coal River and Spruce Laurel properties is shipped to steam and metallurgical customers by the CSX railroad, by barge along the Kanawha River and by truck or by a combination thereof. Coal from the Northern Appalachia properties is shipped by barge on the Monongahela River, by truck and by the CSX and Norfolk Southern railroads. Coal from the Illinois Basin properties is shipped by barge on the Green River and by truck. Coal from the San Juan Basin property is shipped to steam markets in New Mexico and Arizona by the Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad. All of our properties contain and have access to numerous roads and state or interstate highways.
The following table shows our most important coal producing seams by property:
The following tables set forth production data and reserve information with respect to each of our properties:
Of the approximately 818 million tons of proven and probable coal reserves to which we had rights as of December 31, 2007, we owned the mineral interests and the related surface rights to 448 million tons, or 55%, and we owned only the mineral interests to 196 million tons, or 24%. We leased the mineral rights to the remaining 174 million tons, or 21%, from unaffiliated third parties and, in turn, subleased these reserves to our lessees. For the reserves we lease from third parties, we pay royalties to the owner based on the amount of coal produced from the leased reserves. Additionally, in some instances, we purchase surface rights or otherwise compensate surface right owners for mining activities on their properties. In 2007, our aggregate expenses to third-party surface and mineral owners were $5.5 million.
The following table sets forth the coal reserves we own and lease with respect to each of our coal properties as of December 31, 2007:
The following table sets forth our coal reserve activity for each of our coal properties for the years ended December 2007, 2006 and 2005:
Our coal reserve estimates are prepared from geological data assembled and analyzed by our general partner’s or its affiliates’ geologists and engineers. These estimates are compiled using geological data taken from thousands of drill holes, geophysical logs, adjacent mine workings, outcrop prospect openings and other sources. These estimates also take into account legal, qualitative, technical and economic limitations that may keep coal from being mined. Coal reserve estimates will change from time to time due to mining activities, analysis of new engineering and geological data, acquisition or divestment of reserve holdings, modification of mining plans or mining methods and other factors.
We classify low sulfur coal as coal with a sulfur content of less than 1.0%, medium sulfur coal as coal with a sulfur content between 1.0% and 1.5% and high sulfur coal as coal with a sulfur content of greater than 1.5%. Compliance coal is that portion of low sulfur coal that meets compliance standards for the CAA. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 26% of our reserves met compliance standards for the CAA and 39% were low sulfur. The following table sets forth our estimate of the sulfur content and the typical clean coal quality of our recoverable coal reserves at December 31, 2007:
(1) Compliance coal is low sulfur coal which, when burned, emits less than 1.2 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU. Compliance coal meets the sulfur dioxide emission standards imposed by Phase II of the CAA without blending in other
coals or using sulfur dioxide reduction technologies. Compliance coal is a subset of low sulfur coal and is, therefore, also reported within the amounts for low sulfur coal.
(2) Includes compliance coal.
(3) As-received BTU per pound includes the weight of moisture in the coal on an as sold basis.
The following table shows the proven and probable coal reserves we lease to mine operators by property:
Other Natural Resource Management Assets
Coal Preparation and Loading Facilities
We generate coal services revenues from fees we charge to our lessees for the use of our coal preparation and loading facilities, which are located in Virginia, West Virginia and Kentucky. The facilities provide efficient methods to enhance lessee production levels and exploit our reserves.
Timber and Oil and Gas Royalty Interests
We own approximately 220,000 acres of forestland in Kentucky, Virginia and West Virginia. Approximately 28% of our forestland is located on the 62,000 acres in West Virginia that we acquired in September 2007. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Acquisitions and Investments,” for a discussion of our forestland acquisition. The balance of our forestland is located on properties that also contain our coal reserves.
We own royalty interests in approximately 11.2 Bcfe of proved oil and gas reserves located on approximately 165,000 acres in Kentucky, Virginia and West Virginia. Approximately 40% of our oil and gas royalty interests are associated with the leases of property in eastern Kentucky and southwestern Virginia that we acquired in October 2007. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Acquisitions and Investments,” for a discussion of our oil and gas royalty interest acquisition.
Natural Gas Midstream Systems
Our natural gas midstream operations currently include three natural gas gathering and processing systems and a stand-alone natural gas gathering system, including: (i) the Beaver/Perryton gathering and processing facilities in the Texas/Oklahoma panhandle area, (ii) the Crescent gathering and processing facilities in central Oklahoma, (iii) the Hamlin gathering and processing facilities in west-central Texas and (iv) the Arkoma gathering system in eastern Oklahoma. These systems include approximately 3,682 miles of natural gas gathering pipelines and three natural gas processing facilities, which have 160 MMcfd of total capacity. Our natural gas midstream business derives revenues primarily from gas processing contracts with natural gas producers and from fees charged for gathering natural gas volumes and providing other related services. We own, lease or have rights-of-way to the properties where the majority of our natural gas midstream facilities are located.
The following table sets forth information regarding our natural gas midstream assets:
(1) Includes gas processed at other systems connected to the Beaver/Perryton System via the pipeline acquired in June 2006.
(2) Gathering-only volumes.
Beaver/Perryton System
General. The Beaver/Perryton System is a natural gas gathering system stretching over ten counties in the Anadarko Basin of the panhandle of Texas and Oklahoma. The system consists of approximately 1,421 miles of natural gas gathering pipelines, ranging in size from two to 16 inches in diameter, and the Beaver natural gas processing plant. Included in the system is an 11-mile, 10-inch diameter, FERC-jurisdictional residue line.
The Beaver/Perryton System is comprised of a number of major gathering systems and sixteen related compressor stations that gather natural gas, directly or indirectly, to the Beaver plant in Beaver County, Oklahoma. These include the Beaver, Perryton, Spearman, Wolf Creek/Kiowa Creek and Ellis systems. These gathering systems are located in Beaver, Ellis and Harper Counties in Oklahoma and Hansford, Hutchinson, Lipscomb, Ochiltree and Roberts Counties in Texas.
The Beaver natural gas processing plant has 100 MMcfd of inlet gas capacity. The plant is capable of operating in high ethane recovery mode or in ethane rejection mode and has instrumentation allowing for unattended operation 16 hours per day.
We expect to place a new Spearman natural gas processing plant in service by April 2008. The Spearman natural gas processing plant will process gas gathered on the Spearman system. The new Spearman plant will create space in the Beaver natural gas processing plant for the gas that is currently bypassing the Beaver plant. We plan to expand the Spearman gathering system to connect it to the Perryton and Wolf Creek/Kiowa Creek gathering systems. This expansion will provide flexibility and allow for maximum utilization of both the Beaver and Spearman natural gas processing plants.
The Spearman natural gas processing plant will have 60 MMcfd of inlet capacity. The plant will be capable of operating in high ethane recovery mode or in ethane rejection mode and will have instrumentation allowing for unattended operation 16 hours per day. In conjunction with the construction of the Spearman plant, three new gas compressor stations have been constructed on the Spearman gathering system. These compressor stations will allow for more efficient operation of the Spearman system and provide lower wellhead pressures.
Natural Gas Supply. The supply in the Beaver/Perryton System comes from approximately 171 producers pursuant to 333 contracts. The average gas quality on the Beaver/Perryton System for 2007 was 3.6 gallons of NGLs per delivered Mcf.
Markets for Sale of Natural Gas and NGLs. The residue gas from the Beaver plant can be delivered into the Northern Natural Gas, Southern Star Central Gas or ANR Pipeline Company pipelines for sale or transportation to market. The NGLs produced at the Beaver plant are delivered into ONEOK Hydrocarbon’s pipeline system for transportation to and fractionation at ONEOK’s Conway fractionator.
The residue gas from the Spearman plant will be delivered into Northern Natural Gas pipelines for sale or transportation to market. The NGLs produced at the Spearman plant will be delivered into MAPCO’s (Mid-America Pipeline Company) pipeline system. MAPCO’s pipeline system has the flexibility of delivering the NGLs to either Mont Belvieu or Conway for fractionation.
Crescent System
General. The Crescent System is a natural gas gathering system stretching over seven counties within central Oklahoma’s Sooner Trend. The system consists of approximately 1,680 miles of natural gas gathering pipelines, ranging in size from two to 10 inches in diameter, and the Crescent gas processing plant located in Logan County, Oklahoma. Fourteen compressor stations are operating across the Crescent System.
The Crescent plant is a NGL recovery plant with current capacity of approximately 40 MMcfd. The Crescent facility also includes a gas engine-driven generator which is routinely operated, making the plant self-sufficient with respect to electric power. The cost of fuel (residue gas) for the generator is borne by the producers under the terms of their respective gas contracts.
Natural Gas Supply. The gas supply on the Crescent System is primarily gas associated with the production of oil or “casinghead gas” from the mature Sooner Trend. Wells in this region producing casinghead gas are generally characterized as low volume, long-lived producers of gas with large quantities of NGLs. The supply in the Crescent System comes from approximately 259 producers pursuant to 409 contracts. The average gas quality on the Crescent System for 2007 was 5.5 gallons of NGLs per delivered Mcf.
Markets for Sale of Natural Gas and NGLs. The Crescent plant’s connection to the Enogex and ONEOK Gas Transportation pipelines for residue gas and the ONEOK Hydrocarbon pipeline for NGLs give the Crescent System access to a variety of market outlets.
Hamlin System
General. The Hamlin System is a natural gas gathering system stretching over eight counties in West Central Texas. The system consists of approximately 503 miles of natural gas gathering pipelines, ranging in size from two to 12 inches in diameter and with current capacity of approximately 20 MMcfd, and the Hamlin natural gas processing plant located in Fisher County, Texas. Eight compressor stations are operating across the system.
Natural Gas Supply. The gas on the Hamlin System is primarily gas associated with the production of oil or “casinghead gas.” The supply on the Hamlin System comes from approximately 109 producers pursuant to 138 contracts. The average gas quality on the Hamlin System for 2007 was 8.9 gallons of NGLs per delivered Mcf.
Markets for Sale of Natural Gas and NGLs. The Hamlin System delivers the residue gas from the Hamlin plant into the Enbridge or Atmos pipelines. The NGLs produced at the Hamlin plant are delivered into TEPPCO’s pipeline system.
Arkoma System
General. The Arkoma System is a stand-alone gathering operation in southeastern Oklahoma’s Arkoma Basin and is comprised of three separate gathering systems, two of which are 100% owned with the third system being 49% owned. We operate and maintain all three systems. The Arkoma System consists of a total of approximately 78 miles of natural gas gathering pipelines, ranging in size from three to 12 inches in diameter. Three compressor stations are operating across the Arkoma System.
Natural Gas Supply. The supply on the Arkoma System comes from approximately 18 producers pursuant to 32 contracts.
Markets for Sale of Natural Gas and NGLs. The Arkoma System lines deliver gas into the Ozark, Noram and NGPL pipelines.
Crossroads System
General. We are currently constructing a new natural gas gathering system located in the southeast portion of Harrison County, Texas (the Crossroads System). The Crossroads System will consist of approximately eight miles of natural gas gathering pipelines, ranging in size from eight to twelve inches in diameter, and the Crossroads natural gas processing plant. The Crossroads System will also include approximately 19 miles of six-inch NGL pipeline to transport the NGLs produced at the Crossroads plant to Panola Pipeline. The Crossroads System is expected to begin operations by April 2008.
The Crossroads natural gas processing plant will have 80 MMcfd of inlet capacity. The plant will be capable of operating in high ethane recovery mode or in ethane rejection mode and will have instrumentation allowing for unattended operation 16 hours per day.
Natural Gas Supply. The gas on the Crossroads System will originate from the Bethany Field from two producers pursuant to two contracts. The average gas quality on the Crossroads System is expected to be 3.1 gallons of NGLs per delivered Mcf.
Markets for Sale of Natural Gas and NGLs. The Crossroads System will deliver the residue gas from the Crossroads plant into the CenterPoint Energy pipeline for sale or transportation to market. The NGLs produced at the Crossroads plant will be delivered into Panola Pipeline for transportation to Mont Belvieu for fractionation.
Item 3