Item 2 Properties
Title to Properties
The following map shows the general locations of our natural gas gathering and processing systems and our coal reserves and related infrastructure investments as of December 31, 2012:
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our properties and the associated coal reserves in accordance with standards generally accepted in the coal and natural resource management and natural gas midstream industries.
Facilities
We currently lease our office space in Radnor and Williamsport, Pennsylvania, Irving, Texas, and Kingsport, Tennessee. We own the field office in Charleston, West Virginia. We believe that our properties are adequate for our current needs.
Eastern Midstream and Midcontinent Midstream Segments
Our Eastern Midstream and Midcontinent Midstream natural gas businesses derive revenues primarily from gas processing contracts with natural gas producers and from fees charged for gathering natural gas volumes and providing other related services. We own, lease or have rights-of-way to the properties where the majority of our natural gas midstream facilities are located. We also own a natural gas marketing business, which aggregates third-party volumes and sells those volumes into intrastate pipeline systems and at market hubs accessed by various interstate pipelines.
Our Eastern Midstream and Midcontinent Midstream natural gas operations include natural gas gathering and processing systems. The Eastern Midstream segment includes several natural gas gathering systems located in the Marcellus Shale area in Pennsylvania and West Virginia. We also own a 51% membership interest in Aqua-PVR Water Services LLC, a joint venture that transports and supplies fresh water to natural gas producers drilling in the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania. The Midcontinent Midstream segment includes gathering and processing facilities in the Texas/Oklahoma panhandle area. We owned six natural gas processing facilities having 460 MMcfd of total capacity as of December 31, 2012. In addition, we own a 25% membership interest in Thunder Creek, a joint venture that gathers and transports coalbed methane in Wyoming’s Powder River Basin.
As of December 31, 2012, we owned approximately 134 miles of natural gas gathering pipelines, 83 miles of natural gas trunkline pipelines, and 42 miles of fresh water pipelines in the Eastern Midstream segment. In the Midcontinent Midstream segment we owned approximately 4,541 miles of natural gas gathering pipelines. A discussion of our more prominent and evolving systems for each segment follows.
Eastern Midstream Systems
General. During 2010, we began construction of gathering systems in Wyoming and Lycoming Counties in Pennsylvania. We have completed initial construction of 12-inch gas gathering pipelines in Wyoming County and began gathering natural gas on the system in June 2010. In February 2011, we commenced operations on the first phase of the Lycoming System. In April 2011, we also began construction on the second phase of the Lycoming System, a portion of which became operational in the fourth quarter of 2011. In April of 2012, we began construction on the third phase of the Lycoming System, which became operational by the end of the year. The Lycoming System consists of 53 miles of 30- inch trunkline. Construction and development to provide gathering, compression and related services in Lycoming and Wyoming Counties are ongoing. Below is a listing of the multiple gathering systems that make up the Eastern Midstream Segment.
Chief Gathering Acquisition. In May of 2012, we completed the acquisition of Chief Gathering LLC. This acquisition added 120 miles of gathering pipelines, 350 MMcfd of capacity, and over 300,000 dedicated acres in the Marcellus Shale to the Eastern Midstream System.
Lycoming System
General. The Lycoming System includes a 30” trunkline and associated gathering and compression for Range, Anadarko, Southwest Energy, and Shell. In total, there are 73 miles of pipeline, three market outlets to Transco, and a current capacity of 510 MMcfd. The System gathers gas in Lycoming and Tioga counties in Pennsylvania with eight active compressor and dehydration facilities.
Wyoming System
General. The Wyoming System includes a newly constructed 24” trunkline and associated gathering and compression facilities. In total, there are over 72 miles of pipeline, two active compressor stations, three market outlets to the Tennessee Gas Pipeline, and one market outlet to the Transco pipeline. Gas is being gathered for Citrus, Chief E&P, and Chesapeake with an overall capacity of 665 MMcfd. There are well connect projects and compressor station construction projects in progress.
East Lycoming System
General. The East Lycoming System gathers gas in Lycoming and portions of western Sullivan counties in Pennsylvania. The system is comprised of 41 miles of pipeline; one active compressor station and 120 MMcfd capacity tap into the Transco system. Additional well connect projects and compression are under construction to provide market access for EXCO and XTO.
Bradford System
General. The Bradford System is located in Bradford County, Pennsylvania. The System currently has over 20 miles of gathering pipeline, one active compressor/dehydration facility and 55 MMcfd of capacity into the Tennessee Gas Pipeline. Well connect projects and a capacity expansion of the compressor station is underway to provide market access for Chief E&P and Chesapeake.
Greene County System
General. The Greene County System is a small gathering system in Greene County, Pennsylvania. It includes 1/2 mile of pipeline and a tap into the Columbia Gas system for Chevron. A 15 MMcfd compressor station is under construction and is expected to be in service by the second quarter of 2013.
Preston County System
General. The Preston County System is located in Preston County, West Virginia. There is active construction underway to accommodate a well connect for Enerplus with a tap on the Dominion pipeline.
Eastern Midstream Natural Gas Supply. The gathering infrastructure captures current and expected volumes in the Marcellus Shale area. The Eastern Midstream Systems deliver the natural gas to local customers and provides avenues for local producers to major pipeline systems such as Transco and Tennessee.
Aqua-PVR Joint Venture
Water Supply. We are a partner in a joint venture that transports and supplies fresh water to natural gas producers drilling in the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania. Phases I and II of the water pipeline were placed into service in early 2012. Phase III is nearing completion and will be in service the first quarter of 2013. A new three MMgpd pump station was commissioned in December 2012. The new pump station included a high capacity water intake on the West Branch of the Susquehanna River.
Midcontinent Midstream Systems
Panhandle System
General. The Panhandle System is a natural gas gathering system stretching over eleven counties in the Anadarko Basin of the panhandle region of Texas and Oklahoma. The System consists of approximately 2,088 miles of natural gas gathering pipelines, ranging in size from two to 16 inches in diameter, and four natural gas processing plants. Included in the system is an 11-mile, 10-inch diameter, FERC-jurisdictional residue line.
During 2012, we completed construction of and placed into service one of the four processing facilities. Phase I expansion of the facility was completed in March bringing inlet capacity to 80 MMcfd. Phase II expansion of the same facility was completed in June bringing the total inlet capacity of the plant to 140 MMcfd. This addition to the Panhandle System enables us to meet our current and expected future processing requirements in this area. We are also improving the connectivity between plants to enable us to better utilize our Panhandle processing capabilities and better serve the growing needs of the area producers, including those in the Granite Wash.
All four plants are capable of operating in high ethane recovery mode or in ethane rejection mode and have instrumentation allowing for unattended operation of up to 16 hours per day.
The Panhandle System is comprised of a number of pipeline gathering systems and 43 field compressor stations that gather natural gas, directly or indirectly, to the plants. These gathering systems are located in Beaver, Ellis, Harper, and Roger Mills Counties in Oklahoma and Hansford, Hemphill, Hutchinson, Lipscomb, Ochiltree, Roberts and Wheeler Counties in Texas.
Natural Gas Supply and Markets for Sale of Natural Gas and NGLs. The residue gas from the Antelope Hills plant is delivered into Southern Star Central Gas or Northern Natural Gas pipelines for sale or transportation to market. The NGLs produced at the Antelope Hills plant are delivered into ONEOK Hydrocarbon’s pipeline system for transportation to and fractionation at ONEOK’s Conway fractionator.
The residue gas from the Beaver plant is delivered into Northern Natural Gas, Southern Star Central Gas or ANR Pipeline Company pipelines for sale or transportation to market. The NGLs produced at the Beaver plant are delivered into ONEOK Hydrocarbon’s pipeline system for transportation to and fractionation at ONEOK’s Conway fractionator.
The residue gas from the Spearman plant is delivered into Northern Natural Gas or ANR pipelines for sale or transportation to market. The NGLs produced at the Spearman plant are delivered into MAPCO’s (Mid-America Pipeline Company) pipeline system. MAPCO’s pipeline system has the flexibility of delivering the NGLs to either Mont Belvieu or Conway for fractionation.
The residue gas from the Sweetwater plant is delivered into Oklahoma Gas Transmission or ANR pipelines for sale or transportation to market. The NGLs produced at the Sweetwater plant are delivered into ONEOK Hydrocarbon’s pipeline system for transportation and fractionation, with the majority being handled at ONEOK’s Conway fractionator and a portion being delivered to the Mont Belvieu markets.
Crescent System
General. The Crescent System is a natural gas gathering system stretching over seven counties within central Oklahoma’s Sooner Trend. The system consists of approximately 1,724 miles of natural gas gathering pipelines, ranging in size from two to 10 inches in diameter, and the Crescent natural gas processing plant located in Logan County, Oklahoma. Fourteen compressor stations are operating across the Crescent System. We continue to look at potential growth opportunities to service the Mississippian Lime formation.
The Crescent plant is a NGL recovery plant with current capacity of approximately 40 MMcfd. The Crescent facility also includes a gas engine-driven generator which is routinely operated, making the plant self-sufficient with respect to electric power. The cost of fuel (residue gas) for the generator is borne by the producers under the terms of their respective gas contracts.
Natural Gas Supply and Markets for Sale of Natural Gas and NGLs. The gas supply on the Crescent System is primarily gas associated with the production of oil, or “casinghead gas,” from the mature Sooner Trend. Wells in this region producing casinghead gas are generally characterized as low volume, long-lived producers of gas with large quantities of NGLs. The Crescent plant’s connection to the Enogex and ONEOK Gas Transportation pipelines for residue gas and the ONEOK Hydrocarbon pipeline for NGLs gives the Crescent System access to a variety of market outlets.
Hamlin System
General. The Hamlin System is a natural gas gathering system stretching over eight counties in West Central Texas. The system consists of approximately 516 miles of natural gas gathering pipelines, ranging in size from two to 12 inches in diameter and with current capacity of approximately 20 MMcfd, and the Hamlin natural gas processing plant located in Fisher County, Texas. Eight compressor stations are operating across the system. We continue to look at potential growth opportunities to service the emerging Cline formation.
Natural Gas Supply and Markets for Sale of Natural Gas and NGLs. The gas on the Hamlin System is primarily casinghead gas associated with the production of oil. The Hamlin System delivers the residue gas from the Hamlin plant into the Enbridge or Atmos pipelines. The NGLs produced at the Hamlin plant are delivered into TEPPCO’s pipeline system.
Coal Reserves and Production
As of December 31, 2012, we owned or controlled approximately 871 million tons of proven and probable coal reserves located in Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, New Mexico, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia. Our coal reserves are in various surface and underground mine seams located on the following properties:
•
Central Appalachia Basin: properties located in eastern Kentucky, Tennessee, southwestern Virginia and southern West Virginia;
•
Northern Appalachia Basin: properties located in northern West Virginia;
•
Illinois Basin: properties located in southern Illinois, Indiana and western Kentucky; and
•
San Juan Basin: properties located in the four corners area of New Mexico.
Coal reserves are coal tons that can be economically extracted or produced at the time of determination considering legal, economic and technical limitations. All of the estimates of our coal reserves are classified as proven and probable reserves. Proven and probable coal reserves are defined as follows:
Proven Coal Reserves. Proven coal reserves are reserves for which: (i) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (ii) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (iii) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely, and the geologic character is so well defined, that the size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well-established.
Probable Coal Reserves. Probable coal reserves are reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are more widely spaced or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven coal reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
In areas where geologic conditions indicate potential inconsistencies related to coal reserves, we perform additional exploration to ensure the continuity and mineability of the coal reserves. Consequently, sampling in those areas involves drill holes or channel samples that are spaced closer together than those distances cited above.
Coal reserve estimates are adjusted annually for production, unmineable areas, acquisitions and sales of coal in place. The majority of our coal reserves are high in energy content, low in sulfur and suitable for either the steam or to a lesser extent the metallurgical market.
The amount of coal that a lessee can profitably mine at any given time is subject to several factors and may be substantially different from “proven and probable coal reserves.” Included among the factors that influence profitability are the existing market price, coal quality and operating costs.
Our lessees mine coal using both underground and surface methods. As of December 31, 2012, our lessees operated 45 surface mines and 53 underground mines. Approximately 43% of the coal produced from our properties in 2012 came from underground mines and 57% came from surface mines. Most of our lessees use the continuous mining method in their underground mines located on our properties. In continuous mining, main airways and transportation entries are developed and remote-controlled continuous miners extract coal from “rooms,” leaving “pillars” to support the roof. Shuttle cars transport coal to a conveyor belt for transportation to the surface. In several underground mines, our lessees use two continuous miners running at the same time, also known as a supersection, to improve productivity and reduce unit costs.
One of our lessees uses the longwall mining method at two different mines to mine underground reserves. Longwall mining uses hydraulic jacks or shields, varying from four feet to twelve feet in height, to support the roof of the mine while a mobile cutting shearer advances through the coal. Chain conveyors then move the coal to a standard deep mine conveyor belt system for delivery to the surface. Continuous mining is used to develop access to long rectangular panels of coal that are mined with longwall equipment, allowing controlled caving behind the advancing machinery. Longwall mining is typically highly productive when used for large blocks of medium to thick coal seams.
Surface mining methods used by our lessees include auger and highwall mining to enhance production, improve reserve recovery and reduce unit costs. On our San Juan Basin property, a combination of the dragline and truck-and-shovel surface mining methods is used to mine the coal. Dragline and truck-and-shovel mining uses large capacity machines to remove overburden to expose the coal seams. Wheel loaders then load the coal in haul trucks for transportation to a loading facility.
Our lessees’ customers are primarily electric utilities, also referred to as “steam” markets. Coal produced from our properties is transported by rail, barge and truck, or a combination of these means of transportation. Coal from the Virginia portion of the Wise property and the Buchanan property is primarily shipped to electric utilities in the Southeast by the Norfolk Southern railroad. Coal from the Kentucky portion of the Wise property is primarily shipped to electric utilities in the Southeast by the CSX railroad. Coal from the Coal River and Spruce Laurel properties in West Virginia is shipped to steam and metallurgical customers by the CSX railroad, by barge along the Kanawha River and by truck or by a combination thereof. Coal from the Northern Appalachia properties is shipped by barge on the Monongahela River, by truck and by the CSX and Norfolk Southern railroads. Coal from the Illinois Basin properties is shipped by barge on the Green River and by truck. Coal from the San Juan Basin property is shipped to steam markets in New Mexico and Arizona by the Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad. All of our properties contain and have access to numerous roads and state or interstate highways.
The following tables set forth production data for the periods presented and reserve information with respect to each of our properties for the period presented (tons in millions):
Of the approximately 871 million tons of proven and probable coal reserves to which we had rights as of December 31, 2012, we owned the mineral interests and the related surface rights to 416 million tons, or 48%, and we owned only the mineral interests to 283 million tons, or 32%. We leased the mineral rights to the remaining 172 million tons, or 20%, from unaffiliated third parties and, in turn, subleased these reserves to our lessees. For the reserves we lease from third parties, we pay royalties to the owner based on the amount of coal produced from the leased reserves. Additionally, in some instances, we purchase surface rights or otherwise compensate surface right owners for mining activities on their properties. In 2012, our aggregate expenses to third-party surface and mineral owners were $12.0 million.
The following table sets forth the coal reserves we owned and leased with respect to each of our coal properties as of December 31, 2012 (tons in millions):
The following table sets forth our coal reserve activity for the periods presented and ended (tons in millions):
Our coal reserve estimates are prepared from geological data assembled and analyzed by our general partner’s or its affiliates’ geologists and engineers. These estimates are compiled using geological data taken from thousands of drill holes, geophysical logs, adjacent mine workings, outcrop prospect openings and other sources. These estimates also take into account legal, qualitative, technical and economic limitations that may keep coal from being mined. Coal reserve estimates will change from time to time due to mining activities, analysis of new engineering and geological data, acquisition or divestment of reserve holdings, modification of mining plans or mining methods and other factors.
We classify low sulfur coal as coal with a sulfur content of less than 1.0%, medium sulfur coal as coal with a sulfur content between 1.0% and 1.5% and high sulfur coal as coal with a sulfur content of greater than 1.5%. Compliance coal is that portion of low sulfur coal that meets compliance standards for the CAA. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 23% of our reserves met compliance standards for the CAA and 35% were low sulfur. The following table sets forth our estimate of the sulfur content and the typical clean coal quality of our recoverable coal reserves as of December 31, 2012 (tons in millions):
(1) Compliance coal is low sulfur coal which, when burned, emits less than 1.2 pounds of sulfur dioxide per million BTU. Compliance coal meets the sulfur dioxide emission standards imposed by Phase II of the CAA without blending in other coals or using sulfur dioxide reduction technologies. Compliance coal is a subset of low sulfur coal and is, therefore, also reported within the amounts for low sulfur coal.
(2) Includes compliance coal.
(3) As-received BTU per pound includes the weight of moisture in the coal on an as sold basis.
The following table shows the proven and probable coal reserves we leased to mine operators by property as of December 31, 2012 (tons in millions):
Other Natural Resource Management Assets
Coal Preparation and Loading Facilities
We generate coal services revenues from fees we charge to our lessees for the use of our coal preparation and loading facilities, which are located in Virginia, West Virginia and Kentucky. The facilities provide efficient methods to enhance lessee production levels and exploit our reserves.
Timber and Oil and Gas Royalty Interests
We own approximately 249 thousand acres of forestland in Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia. The majority of our forestland is located on properties that also contain our coal reserves.
We own royalty interests in approximately 6.4 Bcfe of proved oil and gas reserves located in Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia.
Item 3