ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Our oil and natural gas properties are primarily located in three core areas of operation: (1) onshore Gulf Coast, primarily in Texas and Louisiana; (2) offshore Gulf Coast in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico; and (3) in the Sacramento Basin of northern California. All of our oil and natural gas properties are subject to the lien of the indenture that secures the senior secured notes, as well as liens imposed by operation of law, such as mechanic's liens and liens for property taxes not yet due. None of our properties has an attached payment or performance obligation.
Our onshore Gulf Coast properties accounted for 59.7% of our proved reserves at December 31, 2001 and 62.6% of our production during 2001. Our onshore Gulf Coast proved reserves were distributed among 38 fields and approximately 350 producing wells and a number of undeveloped locations. Most of our onshore Gulf Coast producing wells have been on production for several years and their respective production decline rates are relatively slow and well established. Our working interests in the fields range from 0.16% to 100% with an average working interest of 70%. We operate 24 of our 38 fields in the onshore Gulf Coast area and 11 of our 21 top value properties are located in the area. Each of these top value properties are operated by us and, in aggregate, accounted for 85% of the production from the area during 2001 and 91% of our proved reserves in the area at December 31, 2001.
Our offshore Gulf Coast properties accounted for 10.6% of our proved reserves and 16.9% of our production for the year ended December 31, 2001. Our offshore Gulf Coast proved reserves were distributed among 30 fields. Our working interests in the fields range from 4% to 100%. We operate 10 of our 30 fields in the area. Six of our 21 top value properties are located in the area. These six properties accounted for approximately 54% of the production from the area during 2001 and 77% of our proved reserves in the area December 31, 2001.
Our California properties accounted for 29.6% of our proved reserves and 20.5% of our production for the year ended
December 31, 2001. At December 31, 2001, our proved reserves in the area were distributed among 15 fields. Most of our producing wells in California benefit from long production histories and well established decline curves. Additionally, we have benefited from a net sales price for our natural gas production in this area that has consistently exceeded NYMEX natural gas prices. Our working interests in California range from approximately 2.5% to 100% with an average working interest of 57%. We operate 9 of our 15 fields in the area. Four of our 21 top value properties are located in California. We operate all four of these properties, which account for approximately 59.0% of the production from the area during 2001 and 95.6% of our proved reserves in the area at December 31, 2001. Recently, we identified approximately 57 behind pipe objectives in existing well bores that we believe represent significant reserve potential in addition to our proved reserves. We conducted a 3-D seismic survey covering approximately 33 square miles of our leasehold, which was completed in January 2002. We anticipate that the 3-D seismic survey will confirm specific locations for previously identified development prospects and may additionally yield opportunities to drill exploratory wells in our Grimes and Sutter City fields. Our $4.6 million capital budget for the area during 2002 includes recompletion and low-risk development drilling projects targeting 12.2 Bcfe of proved undeveloped reserves.
The following table and discussion provides proved reserves, PV-10 values, 2001 production and descriptive information for our three core areas and the principal properties within each core area. These principal properties accounted for approximately 91.2% of our estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2001. These same properties accounted for 74.5% of our total oil and natural gas production during 2001, averaging 31.3 MMcfe per day.
- ----------
(1) Based on our PV-10 Value and proved reserve estimates as of December 31, 2001.
(2) For the twelve months ended December 31, 2001
Onshore Gulf Coast
Hastings Complex. The Hastings Complex includes three fields, encompasses approximately 8,800 gross acres and is located approximately 30 miles south of Houston in Brazoria County, Texas. In March 1998 we acquired working interests in the three fields ranging from 68.3% to 100%. The fields produce from multiple Miocene and Frio reservoirs at depths ranging from 2,000 feet to 7,000 feet. At the time of our acquisition, the fields had produced in excess of 4,351 Bcfe since discovery in 1934 by Stanolind Oil and Gas Co. Net production from the fields was approximately 11,484 Mcfe per day during 2001.
Since assuming operations in August 1998, we have increased production and reduced operating expenses in the field. We were able to achieve this with minimal capital investment by re-engineering the field's artificial lift system, exploiting behind pipe opportunities and eliminating uneconomic wells. At December 31, 2001 we had proved reserves of 53,803 MMcfe. During 2002, we intend to continue our production and cost optimization efforts and drill one proved undeveloped Frio location.
Constitution Field. In March 1998 we acquired our working interests in the Constitution field, which is located in Jefferson County, Texas. Our working interests range from 25.0% to 100.0%. The field produces from the Yegua reservoir at depths ranging from 13,500 feet to 15,011 feet. As of the date we assumed operations, the net daily production from the field was approximately 339 Mcfe. During 2000 we recompleted our Westbury Farms #1 well to the Yegua Sand and then fracture stimulated the reservoir. Initial net production after stimulation was approximately 10,013 Mcfe per day. Our success in the Westbury Farms #1 resulted in reserve additions from four additional proved undeveloped locations. Net daily production from the Constitution field during 2001 was 4,672 Mcfe and at December 31, 2001 we had proved reserves of 7,179 MMcfe. During 2002 we intend to drill two proved undeveloped Yegua locations.
Word Field. The Word field is located in Lavaca County, Texas and produces from the Lower Wilcox and Edwards Limestone reservoirs at depths from 8,100 feet to 13,200 feet. In March 1998 we acquired working interests that range from 87.5% to 100.0%. At the time of our acquisition, the field had produced over 47 Bcfe since its discovery in 1944 and was then producing at a net daily rate of 702 Mcfe per day. Net daily production from the field during 2001 averaged 447 Mcfe per day and at December 31, 2001 we had proved reserves of 9,981 MMcfe, including reserves from one proved behind pipe objective and five proved undeveloped Edwards locations.
AWP Field. Our interest in the AWP field covers 5,144 acres in McMullen County, Texas. The field produces from the Olmos and Wales reservoirs at depths ranging from 5,775 feet to 8,950 feet. In March 1998 we acquired our working interest in the field, which ranges from 97.2% to 100.0%. At the time of our acquisition, the field had produced over 430 Bcfe since its discovery in 1981. Net daily production from our acreage in the field in 2001 averaged approximately 829 Mcfe and we had proved reserves of 5,212 MMcfe at December 31, 2001, including reserves attributable to eight proved undeveloped Olmos locations. During recent years, the field has experienced a resurgence of activity by other operators due to advances in fracture stimulation technology. Consequently, we believe that significant low-risk drilling and refracturing opportunities exist on our acreage.
Clear Branch Field. We acquired our working interests in the Clear Branch field in July 1997. We operate the two active wells in the field and our working interests range from 84.4% to 99.0%. The field produces from the Hosston reservoir at depths ranging from 9,700 to 9,900 feet. Net daily production from the wells during 2001 averaged approximately 486 Mcfe and we had proved reserves of 10,258 MMcfe at December 31, 2001, including reserves attributable to two proved undeveloped Hosston locations. Additional proved reserves are attributable to two behind pipe objective that will be completed following depletion of the current producing intervals.
Sour Lake Field. The Sour Lake field, discovered in 1902, is the second oldest oil field in Texas. It is located 15 miles west of Beaumont, Texas in Hardin County and produces from the Miocene, Frio and Yegua reservoirs at depths ranging from 800 feet to 7,577 feet. Our acreage was acquired from Apache in March 1998. Apache had acquired the acreage from Texaco, who discovered the field. We own 100% of the working interest and mineral estate in fee under 930 acres in the field. Our largest contiguous lease position in the field, 815 acres, is situated over the structural high and is the field's most prolific area. Net daily production from the field during 2001 averaged approximately 1,047 Mcfe and we had proved reserves of 1,996 MMcfe at December 31, 2001, including reserves attributable to five proved behind pipe objectives and ten proved undeveloped locations.
Scott Field. The Scott field is located in Lafayette Parish, Louisiana and produces from the Stutes and Bol Mex
reservoirs at depths ranging from 11,500 feet to 15,200 feet. We acquired our working interests, which range from 11.5% to 27.4% in June 1997. At the time of our acquisition, the field had been on production since the 1980's and had recovered over 11.0 Bcfe, but had never been exploited with the benefit of modern 3-D seismic data and production had declined to 633 Mcfe per day. In the fourth quarter of 1999, after completing a 3-D seismic evaluation, we drilled the Falcon #2 and completed the well in the Bol Mex V reservoir. Net daily production from the field during 2001 averaged approximately 1,685 Mcfe and we had proved reserves of 2,104 MMcfe at December 31, 2001, including reserves attributable to one proved behind pipe objective and one proved undeveloped Bol Mex location. During 2002, our capital budget provides $275,000 for deepening the Falcon #1 to recover net proved undeveloped reserves of 434 MMcfe.
North Alvin Field. In 1996, as part of the Reunion acquisition, we acquired working interests ranging from 34.3% to 41.6% in the North Alvin field, located in Brazoria County, Texas. The field produces from Frio sandstones at depths ranging from 7,900 feet to 8,600 feet. At the time of our acquisition the field had produced over 28.4 Bcfe. Net daily production from the field in 2001 averaged approximately 375 Mcfe and we had proved reserves of 1,500 MMcfe at December 31, 2001. The proved reserves in the field include undeveloped reserves attributable to four reservoirs that we believe can be accessed by one drilling well.
South Liberty Field. The South Liberty field is located 35 miles east of Houston in Liberty County, Texas. We own a 100% working interest in the field. We acquired our interest in South Liberty in March 1998 and at the time of the acquisition the field had produced over 632 Bcfe since its discovery in 1925. The field produces from Miocene, Frio, Yegua and Cook Mountain reservoirs at depths ranging from 1,500 feet to 11,000 feet. Net daily production from the field during 2001 averaged approximately 977 Mcfe and we had proved reserves of 5,577 MMcfe at December 31, 2001.
Barber's Hill Field. We acquired our 100% working interest in the Barber's Hill field in 1998 with the Apache acquisition. Net daily production from the field during 2001 averaged 187 Mcfe per day and we had 5,098 Mmcfe of proved reserves at December 31, 2001, which includes one proved undeveloped Yegua location. To further develop the Yegua sand reserves in the field, a 3-D seismic program completed in 2001 delineated this PUD location, offsetting previous Texaco Yegua wells in the field.
McFaddin Field. The McFaddin Field was acquired in the Apache acquisition in 1998. We own a 100% working interest in the deep rights of the field. Net daily production from the field during 2001 averaged 186 Mcfe and we had 2,053 Mmcfe of proved reserves in the field at December 31, 2001. Included in our reserves are 13 identified behind-pipe opportunities and two proved undeveloped locations.
Offshore Gulf Coast
South Pass 27 Field. In 1997, we acquired non-operating working interests ranging from 27% to 41% in the South Pass 27 field from Statoil. The field is located in federal waters offshore Louisiana in approximately 120 feet of water. We have proved reserves of 5,781 MMcfe at December 31, 2001. The proved reserves in the field include undeveloped reserves attributable to nine reservoirs, to be developed in two proved undeveloped locations and two recompletions.
Eugene Island 277 Field. We acquired a 100% working interest in the Eugene Island 277 field in 1997. The field is located in federal waters offshore Louisiana in approximately 300 feet of water. During 2001, we completed a successful plug-back of the DU Sand in the #2 well to return the field to production. Net daily production from the field during 2001 averaged approximately 1,095 Mcfe and we had proved reserves of 922 MMcfe at December 31, 2001.
South Timbalier 162 Field. We acquired a 100% working interest in the South Timbalier 162 Field in 1997. The field was originally developed by Shell Oil and Amoco during the 1960's. Production has come from over 10 productive reservoirs ranging from 6,000' to 10,000'. Net production during 2001 was 615 Mcfe per day and we have 2,687 Mmcfe of reserves at December 31, 2001. We have three reservoirs with proved behind pipe reserves in two wells currently shut-in.
South Marsh Island 255 Field. We own a 25% working interest in this Ocean Energy operated field. We produced 1,645 Mcfe per of day during 2001 from this dually-completed well and have 2,530 Mmcfe of proved reserves at December 31, 2001. The reserves include one non-producing plugback in the current wellbore.
High Island 537 Field. We own a 100% working interest in this field as a result of a late 1997 acquisition. We have 2,414 Mmcfe behind-pipe reserves in two reservoirs in one well in the field.
Matagorda Island A-4 Field. We own a 45% working interest in this one-well field. During 2001, we produced 447 Mcfe per day and have net reserves of 1,426 Mmcfe in the field at December 31, 2001.
California
Sutter Buttes Field. Our largest contiguous operation in California is in the Sutter Buttes field in northern California, located approximately 40 miles north of Sacramento in Sutter and Colusa Counties. Our working interests range from 53.2% to 100%. The Sutter Buttes field is comprised of over 43,000 contiguous gross acres of leasehold with approximately 60 producing wells, which we operate. At December 31, 2001 we owned 38,000 net acres in the field. We have extensive operating expertise in this area and significant experience with the Forbes and Kione producing reservoirs. From November 1998 to February 2002, we drilled 13 development wells targeting the Forbes and Kione reservoirs at depths of 3,100 feet to 7,100 feet. Twelve of the wells were successful and resulted in significant increases in our production and cash flow. Our net daily production during 2001 averaged 2,064 Mcfe and our proved reserves at December 31, 2001 were 24,899 MMcfe. Our planned capital budget for 2002 includes $3.4 million to drill 6 development wells targeting the Forbes reservoir and 6.6 Bcfe of net proved undeveloped reserves. Additionally, we conducted a 3-D Seismic survey on 15 square miles in the Sutter City Field. The Sutter City leases have produced exclusively from the shallower Kione sands. The 3-D seismic survey will evaluate the deeper Forbes interval that has been prolific on our adjacent acreage.
Grimes Field. Our Grimes field, also acquired in 1996, is located to the southwest of Sutter Buttes and also produces from the Forbes sandstone. Our working interests range from 6.3% to 96.0%. Net daily production during 2001 averaged 1,952 Mcfe and we had proved reserves of 8,231 MMcfe at December 31, 2001. There has been limited development in the field during recent years. During 2001 we successfully conducted an 18 square mile 3-D survey over our acreage in the Grimes field. We believe that the 3-D survey will result in multiple development and exploitation drilling opportunities similar to those that we have completed in the Sutter Buttes area since late 1998.
Sycamore Field. We acquired our 80% working interest in this field in the Reunion Acquisition in 1996. Net daily production from the field during 2001 averaged 780 Mcfe per day. This field has had significant plugback work completed during 2001. Daily production volumes have increased substantially during the last half of 2001. We have continued our workover efforts into 2002. Proved reserves in the field are 17,575 Mmcfe at December 31, 2001, which includes 20 PUD locations and 4 behind-pipe opportunities.
Greeley Field. The Greeley field is located in Kern County, California and is our only oil producing property in California. We own an 85.4% working interest in this field. Unlike most California properties, the Greeley field produces light, sweet crude oil from the Olcese Sand at a depth of approximately 10,500 feet. Net daily production during 2001 averaged 292 Mcfe and we had proved reserves of 3,543 MMcfe at December 31, 2001.
OIL AND NATURAL GAS RESERVES
The following table sets forth information with respect to our estimated net proved oil and natural gas reserves and the related present values of such reserves at the dates shown. The reserve and present value data for our existing properties as of December 31, 1999 and 2000 was prepared by Huddleston & Co., Inc. and by DeGolyer and MacNaughton as of December 31, 2001.
- ----------
(1) The average prices used in calculating PV-10 Value as of December 31, 2001 were $2.54 per Mcf and $18.53 per Bbl. Assuming the inclusion of average swap prices of $3.96 per Mcf and $24.42 per Bbl through December 31, 2003 associated with hedged oil and natural gas volumes, our PV-10 Value would have been $160,807 at December 31, 2001.
(2) Represents PV-10 Value adjusted for the effects of future estimated income tax expense.
Effective February 1, 2001, we gained an incremental 3.3 Bcfe of proved reserves, estimated at December 31, 2001, in our Hastings Complex due to the resolution of certain litigation which resulted in an assignment of additional interests.
Estimated quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues are affected by oil and natural gas prices, which have fluctuated widely in recent years. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers, including those used by us, may vary. In addition, estimates of reserves are subject to revision based upon actual production, results of future development and exploration activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and operating costs. Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered and are highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based.
In general, the volume of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent we acquire properties containing proved reserves or conduct successful exploration and development activities, or both, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Our future oil and natural gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. Exploring for, developing or acquiring new reserves requires substantial amounts of capital.
We file reports of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves with the Department of Energy. The reserves reported to this agency are required to be reported on a gross operated basis and therefore are not comparable to the reserve data reported herein.
NET PRODUCTION, UNIT PRICES AND COSTS
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to oil and natural gas production, prices and costs attributable to all of our oil and natural gas property interests for the periods shown:
- ----------
(1) Reflects the actual realized prices received, including the results of hedging activities. Please read "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
PRODUCING WELLS
The following table sets forth the number of productive wells in which we owned an interest as of December 31, 2001:
Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including natural gas wells awaiting pipeline connections and oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities. Wells that are completed in more than one producing horizon are counted as one well.
ACREAGE
The following table sets forth our developed and undeveloped gross and net leasehold acreage as of December 31, 2001:
Undeveloped acreage includes leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas, regardless of whether or not such acreage contains proved reserves.
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
The table below sets forth our drilling activity on our properties for the periods ending December 31, 1999, 2000, and 2001:
OIL AND NATURAL GAS MARKETING AND HEDGING
The revenues generated by our operations are highly dependent upon the prices of and demand for oil and natural gas. The price we receive for our oil and natural gas production depends on numerous factors beyond our control. Historically the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuation in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors. These factors include the level of consumer product demand, weather conditions, domestic and foreign governmental regulations, the price and availability of alternative fuels, political conditions in the Middle East, the actions of OPEC, the foreign supply of oil and natural gas and overall economic conditions. It is impossible to predict future oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty.
We, from time to time, use swap and option contracts to mitigate the volatility of price changes on commodities we produce and sell, as well as to lock in prices to protect the economics related to certain capital projects.
At December 31, 2001, approximately 80% of our projected oil and natural gas production from proved developed
producing reserves (and the basis differential attributable to approximately 80% of our projected proved developed producing natural gas production from our California properties) is hedged through December 31, 2003 at swap prices that average $3.96 per Mcf and $24.42 per Bbl, or a weighted-average natural gas-equivalent price of approximately $4.01 per Mcfe. In connection with the issuance of the notes, we agreed to maintain, on a monthly basis, a rolling two-year hedge program until the maturity of the notes, subject to certain conditions. In March 2002, we terminated certain of our derivatives contracts and replaced them with contracts providing for price floors at the prices specified required under the terms of the senior secured notes of $2.75 per MMBtu of natural gas (Henry Hub) and $18.50 per barrel of crude oil (West Texas Intermediate).
The table below sets forth the results of our hedge for the period ending December 31, 2001. Our production was not hedged at December 31, 2000:
RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS, FINANCES AND OPERATIONS
Our bankruptcy may adversely affect our ability to conduct our future operations.
On June 18, 2001, we exited bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Our prior bankruptcy may adversely affect the conduct of our future operations by causing vendors and others from whom we purchase goods or services to be reluctant to do business with us. These vendors may request payment in advance, refuse to extend us credit, or give us terms less favorable than our competitors. We currently do business with certain vendors that require us to pay in advance for goods or services. These limitations make us more susceptible to timing differences between our receipt of payment and our expenditures, which requires us to carefully manage our collections and disbursements, and may hinder our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions. In addition, our recourse to bankruptcy protection were we to require it is limited for the 6 years following the date we filed bankruptcy, March 14, 2000, unless we waive the benefits of our past discharge.
Our significant leverage and lack of capital resources may affect our ability to successfully operate and service our debt obligations.
Our level of indebtedness as of December 31, 2001, was $110.1 million as compared to adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2001 of $71.2 million. Under the indenture we are permitted to incur, subject to certain conditions, up to $20.0 million of additional secured debt through the issuance of additional notes and additional amounts by other means.
Our level of indebtedness and lack of capital resources could have several important effects on our future operations, which in turn could have important consequences to you as a holder of the notes, including, without limitation:
o impairing our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate or other purposes in the future;
o placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less indebtedness, by requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness and thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate expenditures and other purposes;
o causing us to be unable to satisfy our amortization payments due on the notes on June 1, 2002, 2003 and 2004;
o causing us to be unable to repurchase, upon a change of control, all of the outstanding notes, together with any accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase;
o causing us to be unable to repurchase notes pursuant to an asset sale offer or an excess cash flow offer; and
o limiting or hindering our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions, making us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or our business.
Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest with respect to our indebtedness, including the notes, or to refinance such obligations will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our near-term cash flow is consumed by our debt service, we may be forced to reduce or delay planned capital expenditures, sell assets, obtain additional equity capital or attempt to restructure our indebtedness.
Historically, we have financed acquisition, exploration and development activities primarily through various credit facilities and with internally generated funds. Our ability to expend the capital necessary to undertake or complete future activities may be limited and we may not have adequate funds available to us to carry out our growth strategy. Please read "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources," beginning on page 23, and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes.
Our estimates of oil and natural gas reserves and future net revenue are uncertain and inherently imprecise.
This prospectus contains estimates of our proved reserves and the estimated future net revenues from our proved reserves. Estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their values involves numerous uncertainties, including many factors beyond our control. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas, which cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of future net revenues necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following:
o historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas;
o the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies; and
o assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs.
Because of the variable factors and assumptions involved in the estimation of reserves, different engineers or the same engineers at different times may reach substantially different results in their estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, their classification of reserves based on risk recovery and their estimates of the future net revenues expected from reserves. In addition, reserve estimates may be adjusted downward or upward because of changes in such factors and assumptions.
Because all reserve estimates are subjective to some degree, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in the estimated reserves:
o the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered;
o the production and operating costs incurred;
o the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and
o future oil and natural gas prices.
The present values of estimated future net revenues referred to in this prospectus should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties. In accordance with applicable requirements of the SEC, the estimated discounted future net revenues from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, whereas actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net revenues also will be affected by factors such as:
o the amount and timing of actual production;
o supply and demand for oil and natural gas;
o curtailments or increases in consumption by natural gas purchasers; and
o changes in governmental regulations or taxation.
The timing of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and their actual present value, will be affected by both the timing of the production and the incurrence of expenses in connection with development and production of oil and natural gas properties. In addition, the calculation of the present value of the future net revenues using a 10% discount, as required by the SEC, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with our reserves or the oil and natural gas industry in general.
Oil and natural gas prices are volatile. A decline in prices could adversely affect our financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to pay debt.
The price we receive for our oil and natural gas production has a significant effect on our financial results, profitability, future rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available to pay debt, to make capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or obtain other forms of financing. Historically, prices for oil and natural gas have been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. Additionally, oil and natural gas prices may vary significantly by geographic region and have been particularly volatile in California where much of our natural gas is produced and sold. Wide fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and other factors beyond our control including:
o worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and natural gas;
o weather conditions;
o the level of consumer demand;
o the price and availability of alternative fuels;
o the availability of pipeline capacity;
o the price and level of foreign imports;
o domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;
o the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls;
o political instability or armed conflict in oil producing regions; and
o the overall economic environment.
These factors and the volatility of the energy markets generally make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Declines in oil and natural gas prices would not only reduce revenue, but could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and, as a result, could adversely effect both our financial condition and our oil and natural gas reserves. Recent weaknesses in commodity prices has contributed to declines in our cash flows which, in conjunction with out debt service obligations, has caused us to limit our capital expenditures. Please read "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Liquidity and Capital Resources", beginning on page 23, and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes.
Drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be encountered.
Our success is significantly affected by risks associated with drilling and other operational activities. We do not ourselves conduct the actual drilling operations, but hire drilling companies at standard industry rates. Perhaps the most
significant drilling risk is the risk that no oil or natural gas will be found that can be produced at a profit. New wells we drill may be unproductive or we may not be able to recover all or any portion of our investment in wells drilled. The seismic data and other technologies we may use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or natural gas is present or may be produced economically. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Our efforts will be unprofitable if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough reserves to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. If we are not successful in finding productive oil and natural gas reservoirs or drilling productive oil and natural gas wells, or if drilling costs are significantly higher than projected, our financial results may suffer. Further, drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including the following:
o unexpected drilling conditions;
o pressure or irregularities in formations;
o equipment failures or accidents;
o adverse weather conditions;
o compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements;
o title problems; and
o costs of, shortages of or delays in the availability or delivery of equipment or qualified operating personnel.
Hedging transactions may limit our potential profits from operations.
To manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas production, we have in the past and will be required in the future under the terms of the indenture, subject to certain conditions, to enter into oil and natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. Our hedging arrangements may include futures contracts on the NYMEX. Our hedging transactions may limit our potential profits if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge.
Hedging transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which:
o our production is materially less than expected;
o there is volatility of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement or the sales prices for the quality of our oil and natural gas and the sales price of the quality assumed in the hedge; or
o the counterparties to our future contracts fail to perform the contracts.
If we are unable to adequately replace our reserves, our ability to sustain production and our long-term financial performance will be adversely impacted.
The volume of production from oil or natural gas properties generally decreases as more oil and natural gas is produced from a property and reserves are depleted. The rate at which the decrease occurs depends upon the geologic characteristics of a particular property. If we do not find new oil and natural gas production either by our exploration and development efforts or acquisition, then our proved reserves will decrease as we produce oil and natural gas. Our future oil and natural gas production rates are therefore highly dependent upon our level of success in finding, developing or acquiring additional reserves. Finding, developing or acquiring additional reserves requires significant capital expenditures. At December 31, 2001, approximately 41% of our total estimated proved reserves were undeveloped. By their nature, undeveloped reserves are less certain than developed reserves and recovery of such reserves will require greater capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. If we do not make significant capital expenditures, we may not be able to replace produced reserves.
Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures primarily through various credit facilities and with internally generated funds. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices of oil and natural gas and our success in developing and producing new reserves. If revenue were to decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices or decreased production, and our access to capital were limited,
we would have a reduced ability to replace our reserves. Due to our limited capital resources and required debt repayment, if revenue were to decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices or decreased production, we might not be able to make sufficient capital investments to replace our oil and natural gas reserves. Even if funds are available, we may not be able to successfully find, develop or acquire additional oil and natural gas proved reserves that are economically recoverable.
Our business involves operating hazards and uninsured risks.
Our drilling and production and other operations, and the transportation of production by others, also involve a number of hazards and risks such as fires, natural disasters, explosions, blowouts and spills. If any of these risks occur, we could sustain substantial losses as a result of:
o injury or loss of life;
o severe damage or destruction to property, natural resources and equipment;
o pollution or other environmental damage;
o clean-up responsibilities;
o regulatory investigations and penalties; and
o suspension of operations.
We are not fully insured against some of these risks, either because the insurance is not available or because of high premium costs. If a significant accident or other event happens and is not fully covered by insurance, we could be required to pay some or all of the costs associated with the accident or event, which may require us to divest resources needed for other purposes. Also, we cannot predict the continued availability of insurance at premium levels that, in our sole discretion, justify its purchase.
Our industry is extremely competitive and many of our competitors have superior resources.
The energy industry is extremely competitive. This is especially true with regard to exploration for, and development and production of, new sources of oil and natural gas. As an independent producer of oil and natural gas, we encounter substantial competition in acquiring properties suitable for exploration, in contracting for drilling equipment and other services, in marketing oil and natural gas and in securing trained personnel. We frequently compete against companies that have substantially larger financial resources, staffs and facilities. If we directly compete against one of those larger companies in a desired acquisition of oil and natural gas properties or in the hiring of experienced and skilled personnel, we may not have the resources available to obtain the desired result.
We depend heavily on the services of key personnel and the loss of their services could have an adverse effect on our ability to operate.
We depend to a large extent on the services of Richard Bowman, Jeffrey T. Janik and Suzanne R. Ambrose. The loss of the services of these key personnel could impair our ability to manage our business and properties. We do not currently have employment contracts with these key personnel and do not currently maintain key man life insurance on their lives. We believe that our success is also dependent upon our ability to continue to employ and retain skilled technical personnel.
Higher oil and natural gas prices adversely affect the cost and availability of drilling and production services.
Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. We have occasionally experienced significantly higher costs and reduced availability for drilling rigs and other related services.
Our operations are subject to significant government regulation that may change over time.
Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to various federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations that may change in response to economic or political conditions. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling and abandonment bonds or other financial responsibility requirements, reports concerning
operations, the spacing of wells, utilization and pooling of properties, taxation and the environment. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and production limitations to conserve supplies of oil and natural gas. A significant portion of our production of natural gas is from our properties in the Sacramento Basin in California. As a result of the recent energy crises in California, certain bills are currently being considered by the California legislature which could impose civil and criminal penalties on producers of natural gas or electric power who curtail production or sell energy "at prices above marginal cost." We cannot determine at this time the effect, if any, that such legislation, were it enacted, would have on our operations. We are not aware that any similar legislation is currently proposed by any other state in which we operate.
In addition, the production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and natural gas, their by-products and other substances and wastes generated, produced or used in connection with oil and natural gas operations are regulated under federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of health and the environment. These laws and regulations may impose increasingly strict requirements for water and air pollution control, spill cleanups and solid waste management. Our failure to meet any of the foregoing requirements could result in a suspension of our operations, as well as administrative, civil, and even criminal penalties.
We may not be able to profitably sell all of the oil and natural gas we produce.
The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends upon the availability and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. If such capacity is not available, we might have to shut-in producing wells or delay or discontinue development plans for properties. In addition, federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand could adversely affect our ability to produce and market our oil and natural gas on a profitable basis.
Our earnings may not be sufficient to cover fixed charges.
For purposes of computing the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings are computed as income after reorganization costs and before income taxes plus interest expense, including amortization of premiums, discounts, and capitalized expenses related to indebtedness. Fixed charges represent interest expense (including amortization of deferred finance charges and an estimated portion of rentals representing interest costs). Our earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges by $15.8 million, $9.2 million and $5.8 million for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000, respectively. Earnings of $16.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, were sufficient to cover fixed charges. If, in the future, our earnings are insufficient to cover our fixed charges, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations under the notes and indenture or may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash reserves and other resources to cover these charges, reduce or delay planned capital expenditures, sell assets, obtain additional equity capital or attempt to restructure our indebtedness.
Competition and Markets
Competition in intense in all areas of our operations. Major and independent oil and natural gas companies and oil and natural gas syndicates actively bid for desirable oil and natural gas properties, as well as for the equipment and labor required to operate and develop such properties. Many of our competitors have financial resources and acquisition, exploration and development budgets that are substantially greater than ours, which may adversely affect our ability to compete with these companies. Many of our competitors have been engaged in the energy business for a much longer time than us. Such companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects that our financial or human resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment.
The market for oil and natural gas produced by us depends on factors beyond our control, including domestic and foreign political conditions, the overall level of supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, the price of imports of oil and natural gas, weather conditions, the price and availability of alternative fuels, the proximity and capacity of natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities and overall economic conditions. The oil and natural gas industry as a whole also competes with other industries in supplying the energy and fuel requirements of industrial, commercial and individual consumers.
REGULATION
General. Various aspects of our oil and natural gas operations are subject to extensive and continually changing
regulation, as legislation affecting the oil and natural gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion. Numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue, and have issued, rules and regulations binding upon the oil and natural gas industry and its individual members. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") regulates the transportation and sale of natural gas in interstate commerce pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 ("NGA") and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 ("NGPA"). In the past, the federal government has regulated the prices at which oil and natural gas could be sold. While sales by producers of natural gas and all sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids can currently be made at uncontrolled market prices, Congress could reenact price controls in the future. Deregulation of wellhead sales in the natural gas industry began with the enactment of the NGPA in 1978. In 1989, Congress enacted the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act (the "Decontrol Act"). The Decontrol Act removed all remaining NGA and NGPA price and nonprice controls affecting wellhead sales of natural gas effective January 1, 1993.
Regulation of Sales and Transportation of Natural Gas. Our sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The price and terms for access to pipeline transportation are subject to extensive regulation. In recent years, the FERC has undertaken various initiatives to increase competition within the natural gas industry. As a result of initiatives like FERC Order No. 636, issued in April 1992, the interstate natural gas transportation and marketing system has been substantially restructured to remove various barriers and practices that historically limited non-pipeline natural gas sellers, including producers, from effectively competing with interstate pipelines for sales to local distribution companies and large industrial and commercial customers. The most significant provisions of Order No. 636 require that interstate pipelines provide firm and interruptible transportation service on an open access basis that is equal for all natural gas supplies. In many instances, the results of Order No. 636 and related initiatives have been to substantially reduce or eliminate the interstate pipelines' traditional role as wholesalers of natural gas in favor of providing only storage and transportation services. While the United States Court of Appeals upheld most of Order No. 636, certain related FERC orders, including the individual pipeline restructuring proceedings, are still subject to judicial review and may be reversed or remanded in whole or in part. While the outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe that we will be affected materially differently than our competitors.
The FERC has also announced several important transportation-related policy statements and proposed rule changes, including a statement of policy and a request for comments concerning alternatives to its traditional cost-of-service rate making methodology to establish the rates interstate pipelines may charge for their services. A number of pipelines have obtained FERC authorization to charge negotiated rates as one such alternative. In February 1997, the FERC announced a broad inquiry into issues facing the natural gas industry to assist the FERC in establishing regulatory goals and priorities in the post-Order No. 636 environment. Similarly, the Texas Railroad Commission has been reviewing changes to its regulations governing transportation and gathering services provided by intrastate pipelines and gatherers. While the changes being considered by these federal and state regulators would affect us only indirectly, they are intended to further enhance competition in natural gas markets. We cannot predict what further action the FERC or state regulators will take on these matters, however, we do not believe that any action taken will affect us materially differently than other natural gas producers with whom we compete.
Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are pending before Congress, the FERC, state commissions and the courts. The natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach recently pursued by the FERC and Congress will continue.
Oil Price Controls and Transportation Rates. Our sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. The price we receive from the sale of these products may be affected by the cost of transporting the products to market.
Environmental Matters. Extensive federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment affect our oil and natural gas operations. Numerous governmental departments issue rules and regulations to implement and enforce such laws, which are often difficult and costly to comply with and which carry substantial administrative, civil and even criminal penalties for failure to comply. These laws, rules and regulations may require the acquisition of certain permits, restrict or prohibit the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production, restrict or prohibit drilling activities that could impact wetlands, endangered or threatened species or other protected natural resources and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Some laws, rules and regulations relating to protection of the environment may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for environmental contamination, rendering a person liable for environmental damages and cleanup costs without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such person. Other laws, rules and regulations may restrict the rate of oil and natural gas production below the rate that would otherwise exist. In addition, state laws often require various forms of remedial
action to prevent pollution, such as closure of inactive pits and plugging of abandoned wells. The regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry increases our cost of doing business and consequently affects our profitability. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with current applicable environmental laws, rules and regulations, that we have no material commitments for capital expenditures to comply with existing environmental requirements and that continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on our operations. However, environmental laws, rules and regulations have been subject to frequent changes over the years, and the imposition of more stringent requirements could have a material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position as well as those of the oil and gas industry in general.
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), also known as the "Superfund Law," and analogous state laws impose liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct on certain classes of persons that are considered to have contributed to the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. These persons include the current or former owner or operator of the site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the site. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of investigating and cleaning up hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, companies that incur liability frequently also confront third party claims because it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances or other pollutants released into the environment.
The Federal Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 ("RCRA"), regulates the generation, transportation, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous wastes and can require cleanup of hazardous waste disposal sites. RCRA currently excludes drilling fluids, produced waters and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of oil and natural gas from regulation as "hazardous waste." Disposal of such non-hazardous oil and natural gas exploration, development and production wastes usually are regulated by state law. Other wastes handled at exploration and production sites or generated in the course of providing well services may not fall within this exclusion. Moreover, stricter standards for waste handling and disposal may be imposed on the oil and natural gas industry in the future. From time to time legislation is proposed in Congress that would revoke or alter the current exclusion of exploration, development and production wastes from the RCRA definition of "hazardous wastes" thereby potentially subjecting such wastes to more stringent handling, disposal and cleanup requirements. State initiatives to further regulate the disposal of oil and natural gas wastes and naturally occurring radioactive materials could have a similar impact on us. If such legislation were enacted it could have a significant impact on our operating costs, as well as those of the oil and natural gas industry in general. The impact of future revisions to environmental laws and regulations cannot be predicted.
We own or lease, and have in the past owned or leased, properties that have been used for the exploration and production of oil and natural gas. Although we have utilized operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons or other wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under these properties or on or under other locations where such wastes have been taken for storage or disposal. In addition, many of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and release of hydrocarbons or other wastes was not under our control. These properties and the wastes disposed thereon may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to remove or remediate previously released wastes or property contamination.
The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 ("OPA") and rules and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto impose a variety of obligations on "responsible parties" with respect to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages resulting from such spills. A "responsible party" includes the owner or operator of an onshore facility, vessel, or pipeline or the lessee or permittee of the area in which an offshore facility is located. Under OPA, a person owning or operating a facility from which there is a discharge or threat of a discharge of oil into navigable waters or adjoining shorelines is subject to strict joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup costs and certain other damages, including natural resource damages. OPA establishes a liability limit for onshore facilities of $350 million and for offshore facilities, all removal costs plus $75 million; however, a party cannot take advantage of this liability limit if the spill is caused by gross negligence or willful misconduct, resulted from a violation of a federal safety, construction, or operating regulation, or if a party fails to report a spill or cooperate in the cleanup. Few defenses exist to the liability imposed by OPA. OPA also imposes ongoing requirements on a responsible party, including preparation of an oil spill contingency plan and proof of financial responsibility to cover a substantial portion of environmental cleanup and restoration costs that could be incurred by governmental entities in connection with an oil spill. Under OPA and rules adopted by the Minerals Management Service ("MMS"), responsible parties of covered offshore facilities that have a worst case oil spill of more than 1,000 barrels must demonstrate financial responsibility in amounts ranging from at least $10 million in state waters to at least $35 million in Outer Continental Shelf ("OCS") waters, with higher amounts of up to $150 million in certain limited circumstances where
the MMS believes such a level is justified by the risks posed by the operations or if the worst case oil spill discharge volume possible at the facility may exceed applicable threshold volumes specified in the MMS's rules. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with OPA, including having appropriate spill contingency plans and certificates of financial responsibility in place.
We have resolved claims by the MMS relating to civil penalties for incidences of noncompliance with certain regulatory requirements on certain of our offshore platforms, as discussed under the heading "Legal Proceedings -- Minerals Management Service."
The Federal Water Pollution Control Act ("FWPCA") and analogous state laws impose strict controls regarding the discharge of pollutants, including produced waters and other oil and natural gas wastes, into state waters or waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accord with the terms of a permit issued by EPA or the state. Sanctions for unauthorized discharges include administrative, civil and criminal penalties, as well as injunctive relief. We believe we are in substantial compliance with applicable FWPCA requirements and that any non-compliance would not have a material adverse effect on us.
Our operations are also subject to the Clean Air Act ("CAA") and comparable state and local requirements. Amendments to the CAA were adopted in 1990 and contain provisions that may result in the gradual imposition of certain pollution control requirements with respect to air emissions from our operations. We may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the next several years for air pollution control equipment in connection with obtaining and maintaining operating permits and approvals for air emissions. However, we believe our operations will not be materially adversely affected by any such requirements, and the requirements are not expected to be any more burdensome to us than to other similarly situated companies involved in oil and natural gas exploration and production activities.
We maintain insurance against "sudden and accidental" occurrences, which may cover some, but not all, of the risks described above. The insurance we maintain may not cover the risks described above. There can be no assurance that such insurance will continue to be available to cover all such costs or that such insurance will be available at premium levels that justify its purchase. The occurrence of a significant event not fully insured or indemnified against could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations.
Regulation of Oil and Natural Gas Exploration and Production. Our exploration and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Such regulations include requiring permits and drilling bonds for the drilling of wells, regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, and the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled. Many states also have statutes or regulations addressing conservation matters, including provisions for the utilization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties, the establishment of maximum rates of production from oil and natural gas wells and the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of such wells. Some state statutes limit the rate at which oil and natural gas can be produced from our properties.
EMPLOYEES
As of March 31, 2002, we had 59 full time salaried employees and approximately 9 contract employees. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. In addition to our employees, we may utilize the services of independent geological, engineering, land and other consultants from time to time.
TITLE TO PROPERTIES
We have obtained title reports on substantially all of our producing properties and believe that we have satisfactory title to such properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and natural gas industry. As is customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we perform a minimal title investigation before acquiring undeveloped properties. We also obtain title opinions prior to the commencement of drilling operations on such properties. Our properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other burdens which we believe do not materially interfere with the use of or materially affect the value of such properties.
ITEM 3.