ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
We classify our mineral properties into three categories: “Operating Properties”, “Development Properties”, and “Exploration Properties”. Operating Properties are properties on which we operate a producing mine and are what we consider a “material” property in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7. Other properties may also be material to our business.
We currently have 100% interest in ten properties in the Americas. Six of our properties, including two Operating Properties and four Exploration Properties, are within our Oaxaca Mining Unit located in Oaxaca, Mexico, along the San Jose structural corridor. In addition, we have one Development and three Exploration Properties within our Nevada Mining Unit located in south central Nevada, U.S.A in the Walker Lane Mineral Belt.
Proven and Probable Reserves
The term “proven (measured) reserves” means reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes, grade, and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that the size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves is well established. The term “probable (indicated) reserves” means reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling, and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven (measured) reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
			
		
			
		
As of December 31, 2018, our estimate of Proven and Probable (“P&P”) reserves was:
Notes to the 2018 P&P reserves:
1.
Metal prices used for P&P reserves were $1,258 per ounce of gold, $16.62 per ounce of silver, $2.65 per pound of copper, $0.97 per pound of lead and $1.20 per pound of zinc. These prices reflect the three-year trailing average prices for gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc.
2.
Precious metal gold equivalent is 75.69:1 using gold and silver only to calculate gold equivalencies.
3.
A breakeven Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) cutoff grade of $80 per tonne was used for estimations of P&P reserves at the Arista Mine. The term “cutoff grade” means the lowest NSR value considered economic to process.
4.
No appreciable amounts of base metals are present in the veins identified to-date at the Mirador Mine at the Alta Gracia project. A breakeven cutoff grade of 1.98 g/t gold-equivalent (AuEq) was used for proven and probable reserves at the Mirador Mine using gold and silver only to calculate gold equivalencies.
5.
Mining, processing, energy, administrative and smelting/refining costs were based on 2018 actual costs for the Oaxaca Mining Unit.
6.
Arista Mine metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 80% for gold, 92% for silver, 80% for copper, 78% for lead and 83% for zinc. Mirador Mine metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 79% for gold and 78% for silver. These recoveries reflect 2018 actual average recoveries for the Aguila and Alta Gracia projects.
7.
P&P reserves are diluted and factored for expected mining recovery.
8.
Minimum mining width for P&P reserves is 1.5 meters for the Arista and Mirador underground mines.
9.
For the Isabella Pearl project, the quantities of material within the designed pits were calculated using a cutoff grade of 0.61 Au g/t for crushed ore and 0.38 Au g/t for Run-of-Mine (“ROM”) ore.
10.
Mining, processing, energy, administrative and smelting/refining costs were based on 2018 cost estimates used for the Isabella Pearl project feasibility study.
11.
Metallurgical gold recovery assumptions used for the Isabella Pearl project were 81% for crushed ore and 60% for ROM ore. These recoveries reflect predicted average recoveries from metallurgical test programs.
12.
Silver is an economic mineral of interest but only a minor amount will be recovered. Silver recoveries were not considered in the Isabella Pearl project feasibility study.
13.
Isabella Pearl P&P reserves are diluted and factored for expected mining recovery.
14.
Figures in tables are rounded to reflect estimate precision and small differences generated by rounding are not material to estimates.
			
		
			
		
For comparison, at December 31, 2017, our estimate of P&P reserves was:
Notes to the 2017 P&P reserves:
1.
Metal prices used for P&P reserves were $1,222 per ounce of gold, $16.62 per ounce of silver, $2.50 per pound of copper, $0.90 per pound of lead and $1.05 per pound of zinc. These prices reflect the three-year trailing average prices for gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc.
2.
Precious metal gold equivalent is 73.53:1 using gold and silver only to calculate gold equivalents.
3.
A breakeven Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) cutoff grade of $80 per tonne was used for estimations of P&P reserves. The term “cutoff grade” means the lowest NSR value considered economic to process.
4.
No appreciable amounts of base metals are present in the veins identified to-date at the Mirador Mine at the Alta Gracia project. A breakeven cutoff grade of 2.04 g/t gold-equivalent (AuEq) was used for proven and probable reserves at the Mirador Mine using gold and silver only to calculate gold equivalencies.
5.
Mining, processing, energy, administrative and smelting/refining costs were based on 2017 actual costs for the Oaxaca Mining Unit.
6.
Arista Mine metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 81% for gold, 92% for silver, 73% for copper, 74% for lead and 84% for zinc. Mirador Mine metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 79% for gold and 78% for silver. These recoveries reflect 2017 actual average recoveries for the Aguila and Alta Gracia projects.
7.
P&P reserves are diluted and factored for expected mining recovery.
8.
Minimum mining width for P&P reserves is 1.5 meters.
9.
Figures in tables are rounded to reflect estimate precision and small differences generated by rounding are not material to estimates.
Mineralized Material
We use the term “mineralized material” to describe mineralization in our mineral deposits that do not constitute “reserves” under U.S. reporting requirements set forth in Guide 7.
In addition to our P&P reserves, we estimate mineralized material within the definition of Guide 7. Mineralized material does not have demonstrated economic viability. The SEC only permits issuers to report “mineralized material” in tonnage and average grade without reference to contained ounces or quantities of other metals. All of our mineralized material is located at our Oaxaca Mining Unit.
As of December 31, 2018, our estimate of mineralized material was:
Notes to the 2018 mineralized material:
1.
Mineralized Material is exclusive of P&P Reserves.
			
		
			
		
2.
Metal prices used for mineralized material were $1,258 per ounce of gold, $16.62 per ounce of silver, $2.65 per pound of copper, $0.97 per pound of lead and $1.20 per pound of zinc. These prices reflect the three-year trailing average prices for gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc.
3.
A breakeven Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) cutoff grade of $80 per tonne was used for estimations of mineralized material. The term “cutoff grade” means the lowest NSR value considered economic to process.
4.
No appreciable amounts of base metals are present in the veins identified to-date at the Alta Gracia project including the Mirador Mine, and the Margaritas project. A breakeven cutoff grade of 1.98 g/t gold-equivalent (AuEq) was used for mineralized material at the Alta Gracia and Margaritas projects using gold and silver only to calculate gold equivalencies at a ratio of 75.69 to 1.
5.
Arista Mine metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 80% for gold, 92% for silver, 80% for copper, 78% for lead and 83% for zinc. Alta Gracia and Margaritas projects metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 79% for gold and 78% for silver. These recoveries reflect 2018 actual average recoveries for the Aguila and Alta Gracia projects.
6.
Mineralized material is diluted and factored for expected mining recovery.
7.
Minimum mining width for mineralized material is 1.5 meters for the Arista Mine and the Alta Gracia and Margaritas projects.
8.
Figures in tables are rounded to reflect estimate precision and small differences generated by rounding are not material to estimates.
9.
100% of the Isabella Pearl project pit contained mineralized material was converted to reserves.
For comparison, at December 31, 2017, our estimate of mineralized material was:
Notes to the 2017 mineralized material:
1.
Metal prices used for mineralized material were $1,222 per ounce of gold, $16.62 per ounce of silver, $2.50 per pound of copper, $0.90 per pound of lead and $1.05 per pound of zinc. These prices reflect the three-year trailing average prices for gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc.
2.
A breakeven Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) cutoff grade of $80 per tonne was used for estimations of mineralized material. The term “cutoff grade” means the lowest NSR value considered economic to process.
3.
No appreciable amounts of base metals are present in the veins identified to-date at the Alta Gracia project including the Alta Gracia and Margaritas projects. A breakeven cutoff grade of 2.04 g/t gold-equivalent (AuEq) was used for mineralized material at the Alta Gracia and Margaritas projects using gold and silver only to calculate gold equivalencies.
4.
Arista Mine metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 81% for gold, 92% for silver, 73% for copper, 74% for lead and 84% for zinc. Alta Gracia and Margaritas projects metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 74% for gold and 81% for silver. These recoveries reflect 2017 actual average recoveries for the Aguila and Alta Gracia projects.
5.
Mineralized material is diluted and factored for expected mining recovery.
6.
Minimum mining width for mineralized material is 1.5 meters.
7.
Figures in tables are rounded to reflect estimate precision and small differences generated by rounding are not material to estimates.
Our P&P Reserve and Mineralized Material estimates were prepared by our technical staff under the direction of Fred H. Brown, Senior Resource Geologist, and Barry Devlin, Vice President of Exploration. Mr. Brown graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Geology from New Mexico State University in 1987, obtained a Graduate Diploma in Engineering (Mining) in 1997 from the University of the Witwatersrand and a Master of Science in Engineering (Civil) from the University of the Witwatersrand in 2005. He is registered with the Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of British Columbia and as a Professional Geoscientist and the Society for Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration as a Registered Member. Mr. Devlin holds a Bachelor of Science degree with honors in Geology, 1981, and a Masters in Geology, 1987, from the University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada. He is also a Professional Geologist registered with the Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of British Columbia.
For a description of the key assumptions, parameters and methods used to estimate Proven and Probable Reserves and Mineralized Material included in this report, as well as data verification procedures and a general discussion of the extent to which the estimates may be affected by any known environmental, permitting, legal, title, taxation, socio-political, marketing or other factors, investors may review the annual reserve report posted on our website (http://www.goldresourcecorp.com.)
			
		
			
		
Oaxaca Mining Unit
All of the properties that make up our Oaxaca Mining Unit are located in Oaxaca, Mexico in what is known as the San Jose structural corridor, which runs north 70 degrees west. Our properties comprise 55 continuous kilometers of this structural corridor which spans three historic mining districts in Oaxaca; the map below shows the general location of our properties:
We are granted concessions from the Mexican federal government to explore and mine our properties in Mexico. We hold certain properties directly as the concession holder and lease other properties from a third party. As of December 31, 2018, our Oaxaca Mining Unit encompassed approximately 69,889 hectares (172,700 acres) covered by 25 mining concessions and 5 lease concessions. The annual concession fees are $589,966 and we have made all necessary payments for 2018. Please see Mining Concessions and Regulations in Mexico, below.
Operating Properties
Aguila Project
Background: The Aguila project currently comprises 18 mining concessions aggregating 25,264 hectares.
In 2002, we leased the Aguila, El Aire, and La Tehuana concessions from a third party. The Aguila and El Aire concessions are part of the Aguila project and the La Tehuana concession comprises the Margaritas property. The lease agreement is subject to a 4% net smelter return royalty where production is sold in the form of gold/silver doré and 5%
			
		
			
		
for production sold in concentrate form. Subject to meeting minimum exploration requirements, there is no expiration term for the lease. We may terminate it at any time upon written notice to the lessor and the lessor may terminate it if we fail to fulfill any of our obligations, which primarily consist of paying the appropriate royalty to the lessor.
In August 2003, we commenced an initial drilling and exploration program at the Aguila project. Through 2018, we have drilled a total of 935 core holes (both surface and underground) equaling 286,424 meters and 166 reverse circulation holes equaling 14,367 meters for a total of 1,101 holes totaling 300,791 meters.
In 2010, we acquired from a third party, at no additional cost, the El Chacal and El Pilon concessions, which are subject to a 2% royalty, but are not subject to the Aguila lease agreement. We filed for and received additional concessions from the Mexican government which are also not part of the concessions leased or acquired from the third party. The mineral concessions making up the Aguila project are located within the San Pedro Totolapam and San Pedro Quiatoni Ejidos.
Location and Access: The Aguila project is located in the Sierra Madre del Sur Mountains of southern Mexico in the central part of the State of Oaxaca. The property is located along a major paved highway approximately 120 kilometers southeast of Oaxaca City, the state’s capital city. The property is approximately four kilometers due northwest from the village of San Jose de Gracia. We have constructed gravel and paved roads from the village to the mine and processing facility which provides adequate access to the property.
The climate of the Aguila project area is dry and warm to very warm with most rainfall occurring in June through September and annual precipitation averaging 423.7 mm. The average yearly temperature is 26.6 degrees centigrade. The area is very rocky with arid vegetation. Subsistence farming occurs and the main agricultural crop is agave cactus that is cultivated for the production of mescal.
Geology and Mineralization: The Aguila project is located in the San Jose de Gracia Mining District in Oaxaca. Multiple volcanic domes of various scales, and probably non-vented intrusive domes, dominate the district geology. These volcanogenic features are imposed on a pre-volcanic basement of sedimentary rocks. Gold and silver mineralization in this district is related to the manifestations of this classic volcanogenic system and is considered epithermal in character.
Historically, we have produced ore from two locations on the Aguila property, the Aguila open pit mine and the Arista underground mine. The Aguila open pit mineralization is considered low sulfidation, epithermal mineralization primarily of gold with some silver and no base metals. The Arista underground mine is considered intermediate epithermal mineralization of gold, silver, copper, lead, and zinc. The host rock in the Arista vein system is primarily andesite.
Facilities: We constructed a processing facility and other infrastructure at the Aguila project for approximately $35 million in 2009, and expanded the processing facility in 2012 and 2013, spending an additional $23 million. The flotation mill expansion, completed at the end of 2013, increased the number of flotation cells, added a second ball mill to allow for additional processing capacity and a Knelson gravity concentrator. In 2014 we completed a doré processing facility. The Aguila processing facility is flexible in its ability to process several types of mineralization. It has a differential flotation section capable of processing polymetallic ore and producing up to three separate concentrate products for sale. The facility also has an agitated leach circuit capable of producing gold and silver doré for sale. Depending on the specific type and characteristics of the ore, the facility has processed sulfide material in its flotation circuit at well above its nominal capacity of 1,500 tonnes of ore per day. The agitated leach circuit can process a nominal 300 tonnes per day.
We obtained water rights from the Mexican government for an amount of water that we believe is sufficient to meet our operating requirements and pump it approximately five kilometers to the site from a permitted well located near the Totolapam River. Power is provided by diesel generators at the site.
			
		
			
		
Additional improvements at the site include installation of a second diesel generation power plant and switch gear, paving a three-kilometer section of the road from the mine to the processing facility, construction of a new surface maintenance garage and fuel station, construction of haul roads from the mine site to the processing facility, office space at the processing facility, an assay lab, an exploration office, a tailings impoundment facility and other infrastructure.
In addition to the paste fill plant, the tailings lift, and the power grid project, major construction projects in 2018 consisted of new underground explosive magazines on the second level of the mine, a ventilation upgrade for the Switchback mining zone, and the upgrade of the diesel power generation plant.
Exploration Activities:
Our exploration activities during 2018 mainly focused on underground exploration drilling at the Arista and Switchback vein systems in the Arista Mine. The Switchback drilling program continued to target further expansion and delineation of the multiple high-grade parallel veins for reserve definition, expansion and mine plan optimization. The Switchback strike length has expanded to over 1-kilometer, a more than 375-meter expansion from the beginning of 2018, with results adding to reserve definition, expansion and Arista Mine plan optimization. The Switchback vein system remains open on strike and vertical extent.
Underground drilling during 2018 also continued to expand the new high-grade ore zone in the Arista vein system. Twenty-eight underground diamond drill holes totaling 12,287 meters were completed at the Aguila project during 2018.
Alta Gracia
Background: In August 2009, we acquired claims adjacent to the Margaritas property in the Alta Gracia Mining District by filing concessions known as the David 1, the David 2 and La Herradura, totaling 5,175 hectares.
As of December 31, 2016, proven and probable reserves had been established for the Mirador Underground Mine on our Alta Gracia property. In July 2017, mine development reached the economic ore zone of the Mirador vein and mining began.
Location and Access: The Alta Gracia project is approximately 20 kilometers northeast from the village of San Pedro Totalapam, in the Municipality of San Pedro Totolapam. Access to the project is by a gravel road that departs the paved highway approximately 13 kilometers east of the village of San Pedro Totalapam. The haulage distance by road from Alta Gracia to the Aguila processing facility is approximately 32 kilometers.
Geology and Mineralization: The sedimentary and volcanic units mapped at Alta Gracia are similar to those observed at the Aguila project. The district is dominated by Tertiary-age rhyolite flows and tuffs which are underlain by andesite flows and tuff. Granodiorite and felsic intrusives are observed to outcrop to north and east of the Mirador mine. Known vein occurrences at Alta Gracia are mainly hosted in andesite and rhyolite. The veins currently being mined at Alta Gracia are considered low sulfidation epithermal mineralization with economic values only for gold and silver.
Facilities: During 2016, we received our operating permit for the Mirador Mine. Explosive magazines, located inside the Mirador Mine at the Alicia portal, were also constructed and permitted.
In 2017, two mine portals were developed to provide access to the Mirador vein. Mine site offices and a mobile equipment maintenance shop were established adjacent to the Aguacate portal. Additionally, a diesel power generation plant, compressed air and a mine water pumping station were developed and put into service.
High grade ore from the Mirador Mine, primarily silver, is transported by contracted haul trucks to and processed at our agitated leach plant at the Aguila processing facility, with final product being doré.
			
		
			
		
Exploration Activities: The 2018 Alta Gracia surface drill campaign tested several target areas focusing primarily on the Independencia and Victoria veins, located southwest of the Mirador Mine, both considered as potential expansion areas. A new, wide, high-grade silver ore shoot was discovered within the Independencia vein with significant potential to expand production at Alta Gracia. In 2018, we completed 20 surface exploration diamond drill holes totaling 4,279 meters at Alta Gracia. To-date, a total of 161 surface diamond drill holes totaling 35,900 meters have been completed at Alta Gracia. Surface and underground geological mapping and sampling along with detailed topographic surveying also continued in the historic mining areas at Alta Gracia. The new information was used for estimation of additional reserves and mineralized material and to guide follow-up drilling planned in 2019.
Please see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information concerning our mining operations at the Aguila project.
Exploration Properties
Margaritas Property
The Margaritas property is made up of the La Tehuana concession. It is comprised of approximately 925 hectares located along our 55-kilometer mineralized trend and adjacent to the Aguila project
In 2018, we continued to review results from previous surface drilling, surveying, detailed geological mapping and rock chip channel sampling for the Margaritas property. Additional rock chip channel sampling of historic workings and expansion of the soil and rock geochemical program was also carried out in the Trenes mineralized zone. This program expanded upon the geochemical program conducted at Trenes during 2014 and 2015. A follow-up surface diamond drilling program is planned for Trenes in 2019. Trenes is located approximately 10-kilometers northwest of the Arista Mine along our 55-kilometer mineralized trend.
Chamizo Property
In June 2011, we staked mineral claims between the Rey property and Alta Gracia property along a trend and acquired an exploration concession from the Mexican government of approximately 26,386 hectares referred to as Chamizo. In March 2013, we acquired a property known as Cerro Colorado from Almaden Minerals, Ltd. consisting of approximately 1,860 hectares. The Cerro Colorado property is surrounded by our Chamizo concession and we include it as part of the Chamizo property. Any future production from the Cerro Colorado concession is subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty in favor of Almaden.
Because of the close proximity of Chamizo to Alta Gracia, exploration activity began on this property during late 2011 and to date has included geochemical sampling and drilling of eight shallow core holes for a total of 1,327 meters. We completed the acceptable minimum amount of work required to maintain the claims during 2018 and target the same amount of work in 2019.
Fuego Property
In March 2013, we acquired the Fuego property from Almaden Minerals Ltd. subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty. The Fuego property consists of approximately 2,554 hectares and is located south of our Alta Gracia and Chamizo properties. In 2013, Fuego was included in the property-wide airborne geophysical survey. Geologic mapping and surface sampling were conducted on the Fuego property from 2013 through 2018 to allow us to meet the acceptable minimum amount of work required to maintain the claims. We do not anticipate any significant exploration activities at El Fuego in 2019. However, we plan to conduct the acceptable minimum amount of work required to maintain the claims.
			
		
			
		
Rey Property
The Rey property consists of concessions on the far northwest end of our 55-kilometer mineralized corridor in the State of Oaxaca known as Rey, El Virrey, La Reyna and El Marquez. The Rey property consists of 2,774 hectares. We acquired the Rey concession from a third party and it is subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty payable to them on a portion of the claims. We obtained the remaining concessions by staking claims and filing for concessions with the Mexican government.
The Rey property is located approximately 64.4 kilometers by road from the Aguila project. There is no plant or equipment on the Rey property. If exploration is successful, any mining would probably require an underground mine where mineralized material could be trucked to the Aguila processing facility for processing. To date, we have drilled 48 core holes for a total of 5,273 meters at the Rey property. Early in 2012, we completed a small amount of work to finish refurbishing and extending an existing shaft on the property to permit underground exploratory drilling. We ceased work at the Rey property during 2012, following a request to obtain additional approvals from local community agencies. In 2019, we plan to continue working with the local agencies and anticipate resolving the matter, but we have no assurance that we will be able to resume our exploration activities in the near term. If the matter is resolved, we plan to conduct follow-up drilling and exploration based on the drilling done in 2007 and 2008. We do not anticipate any significant exploration activities at Rey in 2019. However, we plan to conduct the acceptable minimum amount of work required to maintain the claims.
Mining Concessions and Regulations in Mexico
Mineral rights in Mexico belong to the Mexican federal government and are administered pursuant to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution. All of our mining concessions are exploitation concessions, which may be granted or transferred to Mexican citizens and corporations. Our leases or concessions are held by our Mexican subsidiary. Exploitation concessions have a term of 50 years and can be renewed for another 50 years. Concessions grant us the right to explore and exploit all minerals found in the ground. Maintenance of concessions requires the semi-annual payment of mining duties (due in January and July) and the performance of assessment work, on a calendar year basis, with assessment work reports required to be filed in the month of May for the preceding calendar year. The amount of mining duties and annual assessment are set by regulation, may increase over the life of the concession and include periodic adjustments for inflation.
Mexican mining law does not require payment of finder’s fees to the government, except for a discovery premium in connection with national mineral reserves, concessions and claims or allotments contracted directly from the Mexican Geological Survey. None of the claims held by DDGM are under such a discovery premium regime.
Ejido Lands and Surface Right Acquisitions in Mexico
Surface lands within our Oaxaca Mining Unit are Ejido lands (agrarian cooperative lands granted by the federal government to groups of Campesinos pursuant to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution of 1917). Prior to January 1, 1994, Ejidos could not transfer Ejido lands into private ownership. Amendments to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution in 1994 now allow individual property ownership within Ejidos and allow Ejidos to enter into commercial ventures with individuals or entities, including foreign corporations. We have an agreement with the local San Pedro Totolapam Ejido allowing exploration and exploitation of mineralization at the Aguila project and some of our surrounding properties.
Mexican law recognizes mining as a land use generally superior to agriculture. However, the law also recognizes the rights of the Ejidos to compensation in the event mining activity interrupts or discontinues their use of the agricultural lands. Compensation is typically made in the form of a cash payment to the holder of the agricultural rights. The amount of such compensation is generally related to the perceived value of the agricultural rights as negotiated in the first instance between the Ejidos and the owner of the mineral rights. If the parties are unable to reach agreement on the amount of the compensation, the decision can be referred to the government.
			
		
			
		
We have established surface rights agreements with the San Pedro Totolapam Ejido and the individuals impacted by our proposed operations which allow disturbance of the surface where necessary for our exploration activities and mining operations.
Nevada Mining Unit
In Nevada, we are the owner of four properties totaling 930 unpatented mining claims covering approximately 18,320 acres, subject to the paramount title of the United States of America, under the administration of the Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”). Under the Mining Law of 1872, which governs the location of unpatented mining claims on federal lands, the owner (locator) has the right to explore, develop, and mine minerals on unpatented mining claims without payments of production royalties to the U.S. government, subject to the surface management regulation of the BLM. Currently, annual claim maintenance fees are the only federal payments related to unpatented mining claims. Annual maintenance fees of $155,720 were paid during 2018.
In addition to the unpatented claims, we also own 17 patented mining claims covering approximately 274 acres and an additional 200 acres of fee lands in Mineral County, Nevada. The patented claims and fee lands are subject to payment of annual property taxes made to the county where they are located. Annual property taxes on our patented claims and fee lands have been paid through June 30, 2019.
Our properties in Nevada are located in the Walker Lane Mineral Belt which is known for its significant and high-grade gold and silver production. Activities at our properties in Nevada range from exploration at East Camp Douglas and County Line to mineral delineation phase at Mina Gold to development at Isabella Pearl. We believe that our Nevada properties have excellent potential for additional discoveries of both bulk tonnage replacement-type and bonanza-grade vein-type gold deposits, similar to other gold deposits historically mined in the Paradise Peak, Borealis, Bodie, Tonopah, and Goldfield districts.
Our primary focus is to discover, delineate and advance potential open pit heap leach gold operations at our Nevada Mining Unit and commence production as soon as possible. We believe that our Nevada properties are highly prospective based on their geology, surface samples, drill results, and close proximity to past and current high-grade gold and silver producing mines. We also target equipment sharing synergies whereby we may move equipment from one
			
		
			
		
project to the next due to their close proximity (approximately 20 miles or less) to each other. The map below shows the general location of our properties within Nevada:
			
		
			
		
Exploration Properties
Mina Gold
In August of 2016, we purchased 100% interest in the Mina Gold property located in Nevada’s Walker Lane Mineral Belt. The property has the potential to be a future open pit heap leach gold operation. Mina Gold reported a historic third-party estimate of mineralized material totaling 1,606,000 tonnes grading 1.88 g/t gold. The property covers an area of approximately 825 acres consisting of 43 unpatented claims and 5 patented claims. During 2018, we completed an 11-hole reverse circulation drilling program totaling 885 meters on the Mina Gold property. This drilling targeted expansion along strike and to depth known surface high-grade gold mineralization on our patented claims. In 2019, we will review results from previous surface drilling to guide follow-up drilling planned and other exploration activities for Mina Gold.
East Camp Douglas
In January 2017, we purchased 100% interest in the East Camp Douglas gold property located in Nevada’s Walker Lane Mineral Belt. The property covers an area of approximately 5,300 acres consisting of 277 unpatented claims, 12 patented claims and additional fee lands in Mineral County, Nevada. Precious metal epithermal mineralization at East Camp Douglas occurs as both widespread high sulfidation alteration areas and low sulfidation veins. Modern exploration by several mining and exploration companies has established modest gold resource potential in five separate areas on the property, with over 3,000 meters of drill core and a large exploration database. We believe this large property has numerous untested gold targets with open pit heap leach potential warranting an extensive exploration program. During 2018, we continued to review historical geological, exploration and mining data on the East Camp Douglas property. Additional exploration activities included examinations and surveying of the historic mine workings and drill collars in the historic Cerro Duro mining area together with surface geological and alteration mapping. In 2019, we plan to evaluate the resource potential of the historic Cerro Duro mining area using extensive historical drilling and sample data available as well as identifying targets for our first drilling program on the gold-bearing silicified volcanic rocks further to the south in the area we call the “lithocap”.
County Line
In March 2018, we purchased 100% interest in the County Line property. The property is located close to our other Nevada properties in central Nevada’s Walker Lane Mineral Belt in Mineral and Nye counties. In addition, we staked additional unpatented claims around the property to strengthen the land position and exploration potential. The total land package is 2,320 acres consisting of 116 unpatented lode mining claims and 6 unpatented placer mining claims. During 2018, we reviewed historical geological, exploration and mining data along with conducting surface mapping and rock chip sampling at County Line in preparation for a future initial surface drilling program.
Development Property
Isabella Pearl
Background: In August 2016, we purchased 100% interest in the Isabella Pearl project which covers an area of approximately 9,000 acres consisting of 494 unpatented claims. After acquiring Isabella Pearl, we drilled several holes in the deposit for further mineral delineation and additional metallurgical testing. This included 4 holes totaling 735 meters of core drilling and 82 meters in 6 holes of reverse circulation drilling. We also drilled a 400-meter deep water well to supply the project’s future water needs for gold production. In April 2018, we released our maiden Proven and Probable mineral reserve for the Isabella Pearl project totaling 192,600 gold ounces at an average grade of 2.22 g/t. We are targeting the production of gold doré from an open pit heap leach operation and we expect gold recoveries of approximately 81% for crushed ore and 60% for the run-of-mine (“ROM”) ore. Our goal is to advance the project into production in mid-2019, subject to construction timing.
			
		
			
		
Location and Access: The Isabella Pearl project is located in the Gabbs Valley Range in Mineral County, approximately 240 kilometers (150 miles) southeast of Reno, Nevada. Access to the project is by a paved road approximately 10-kilometer (6 miles) north of the town of Luning, Nevada. The project has good connections to the infrastructure of west-central Nevada, with access roads to the project site linking to Nevada state route 361 and U.S. Route 95, the main highway between Reno and Las Vegas.
Geology and Mineralization: The Isabella Pearl project is located in the central portion of the Walker Lane Mineral Belt, a major northwest-trending zone on the western border of Nevada characterized by a series of closely spaced dextral strike-slip faults that were active throughout much of the middle to late Cenozoic. Volcanic rocks of middle Tertiary age cover much of the property and include intermediate lava flows and ignimbrite ash-flow sheets. The volcanic rocks unconformably overlie Mesozoic strata including Triassic and Jurassic sedimentary units and Cretaceous and Jurassic igneous units. Within the regional Walker Lane tectonic setting, several major fault zones trend through the property and are dominated by various splays and offset branches that host the gold mineralization in the area.
The gold-silver mineralized zones mainly include the Isabella, Pearl, and Civit Cat deposits, collectively referred to as the Isabella Pearl deposit. Alteration and mineral assemblages at Isabella Pearl, including widespread argillic alteration and generally abundant alunite, indicate the deposits belong to the high-sulfidation class of epithermal mineral deposits. Potassium-Argon age determinations indicate the mineralization is about 19 Ma, some 7 to 10 million years younger than the age of the host rocks. This early Miocene age conforms to the age of other high-sulfidation epithermal precious-metal deposits in the Walker Lane (e.g., Goldfield and Paradise Peak).
Facilities: We were granted a positive Record of Decision (“ROD”) from the BLM on the Environmental Assessment (“EA”) for the Isabella Pearl project in May 2018. This final permit, along with approval from the Company’s Board of Directors, allowed us to move the project forward into development and construction. Construction progress in 2018 included the completion of haul roads, office and laboratory buildings, construction of and liner placement on the heap leach pad, the pregnant and barren solution ponds, and connection of the water well. We began installation of the ADR processing facility during the fourth quarter of 2018 with completion expected in 2019. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2018, we installed our crushing facility and commenced mining and waste removal of the first several benches of the open pit mine.
Exploration Activities: In 2018, we completed a 36-hole, 3,005-meter reverse circulation drilling program targeted to explore and expand mineral reserves at the Isabella Pearl project. Surface geological and alteration mapping and rock chip surface sampling continued on the new high-grade gold area located on the northeast side of the Isabella Pearl deposit as well as a target to the northwest. These areas are targeted for surface drilling in the future.
2019 Exploration
In 2019, we anticipate spending approximately $5 million for exploration activities for both the Oaxaca and Nevada Mining Units. Exploration expenditures may be modified depending on exploration results, metal market conditions and available capital.
Office Facilities
We constructed an administrative office building adjacent to the Aguila processing facility and a mine office adjacent to the Arista Mine portal as part of the Aguila project. We also lease office space in Oaxaca City, Oaxaca consisting of approximately 3,000 square feet. The lease commenced in 2012 and continues for ten years. In 2014, we sold the building that serves as our executive and administrative headquarters in Colorado Springs, Colorado and have leased back a portion under a renewable one-year lease. We also lease an office in Denver, Colorado consisting of approximately 2,500 square feet, which we renewed through February 2022.
			
		
			
		
Glossary
The following terms used in this report shall have the following meanings:
ADR
An absorption, desorption and refining (“ADR”) facility which recovers gold from the leached pregnant solution.
Andesite:
An extrusive igneous, volcanic rock, of intermediate composition, with aphanitic to porphyritic texture characteristic of subduction zones, such as the western margin of South America.
Concentrate:
A product from a mineral processing facility such as gravity separation or flotation in which the valuable constituents have been upgraded and unwanted gangue materials rejected as waste.
Doré:
Composite gold and silver bullion usually consisting of approximately 90% precious metals that will be further refined to separate pure metals.
Drift:
A horizontal tunnel generally driven within or alongside an orebody and aligned parallel to the long dimension of the ore.
Epithermal:
Used to describe gold deposits found on or just below the surface close to vents or volcanoes, formed at low temperature and pressure.
Exploration:
Prospecting, sampling, mapping, diamond-drilling and other work involved in locating the presence of economic deposits and establishing their nature, shape and grade.
Grade:
The concentration of an element of interest expressed as relative mass units (percentage, ounces per ton, grams per tonne (“g/t”), etc.).
Hectare:
Another metric unit of measurement, for surface area. One hectare equals 1/200th of a square kilometer, 10,000 square meters, or 2.47 acres. A hectare is approximately the size of a soccer field.
Long-hole Stoping:
Mining method which uses holes drilled by a production drill to a predetermined pattern by a mining engineer. Long-hole stoping is a highly selective and productive method of mining and can cater for varying ore thicknesses and dips (0 - 90 degree). Blasted rock is designed to fall into a supported drawpoint or removed with remote control LHD (load, haul, dump machine).
Heap Leaching:
Consists of stacking crushed or run-of-mine ore on impermeable pads, where a weak cyanide solution is applied to the surface of the heap to dissolve the gold. The gold-bearing solution is then collected and pumped to process facilities to remove the gold by collection on carbon.
Mineralized Material:
Minerals or any mass of host rock in which minerals of potential commercial value occur.
			
		
			
		
Net Smelter Return
(“NSR”):
The net revenue that the owner of a mining property receives from the sale of the mine's metal products less transportation and refining costs. As a royalty it refers to the fraction of net smelter return that a mine operator is obligated to pay the owner of the royalty agreement.
Mineral Deposit:
Rocks that contain economic amounts of minerals in them and that are expected to be profitably mined.
Patented Claim:
A mining claim for which the U.S. Federal Government has passed its title to the claimant, making it private land. A person may mine and remove minerals from a mining claim without a mineral patent. However, a mineral patent gives the owner exclusive title to the locatable minerals and in most cases, grants title to the surface.
Tonne:
A metric ton. One tonne equals 1000 kg. It is equal to approximately 2,204.62 pounds.
Unpatented Claim:
A particular parcel of U.S. Federal land, valuable or believed to be valuable for a specific mineral deposit or deposits. It is a parcel for which an individual has asserted a right of possession. The right is restricted to the extraction and development of a mineral deposit.
Volcanogenic:
Of volcanic origin.
Volcanic domes:
These are mounds that form when viscous lava is erupted slowly and piles up over the vent, rather than moving away as lava flow. The sides of most domes are very steep and typically are mantled with unstable rock debris formed during or shortly after dome emplacement. Most domes are composed of silica-rich lava which may contain enough pressurized gas to cause explosions during dome extrusion.
ITEM 3.