ITEM 2.PROPERTIES
We classify our mineral properties into two categories: “Operating Properties” and “Exploration Properties.” Operating Properties are properties on which we operate a producing mine and are what we consider a “material” property in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7. We anticipate that all exploration activities at our Exploration Properties will be funded through internally generated capital.
We currently have an interest in nine properties. Six of our properties, including one Operating Property and five Exploration Properties, are within our Oaxaca Mining Unit located in the southern state of Oaxaca, Mexico (“Oaxaca”). In addition, we have three Exploration Properties within our Nevada Mining Unit located in south central Nevada’s Walker Lane Mineral Belt in the United States. We own two of the Nevada properties and have an option to purchase the third. Please see Item 1. Business for additional information about our business.
Proven and Probable Reserves
The term “proven (measured) reserves” means reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes, grade, and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that the size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves is well established. The term “probable (indicated) reserves” means reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling, and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven (measured) reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
As of December 31, 2016, our estimate of proven and probable reserves was:
For comparison, at December 31, 2015, our estimate of proven and probable reserves was:
Notes to the 2016 Proven and Probable (“P & P”) reserves:
1.
Metal prices used for P & P reserves were $1,225 per ounce of gold, $17.29 per ounce of silver, $2.60 per pound of copper, $0.87 per pound of lead and $0.94 per pound of zinc. These prices reflect the three-year trailing average prices for gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc.
2.
Precious metal gold equivalent is 70.85:1 using gold and silver only to calculate gold equivalents.
3.
A breakeven Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) cutoff grade of $80 per tonne was used for estimations of P & P reserves. The term “cutoff grade” means the lowest NSR value considered economic to process.
4.
Mining, processing, energy, administrative and smelting/refining costs were based on 2016 actual costs for the Oaxaca Mining Unit.
5.
Metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 89% for gold, 92% for silver, 78% for copper, 74% for lead and 84% for zinc. These recoveries reflect 2016 actual average recoveries for the Aguila project.
6.
P & P reserves represents estimated in-place material, diluted and factored for expected mining recovery.
7.
Minimum mining width for P & P reserves is 1.5 meters.
8.
Figures in tables are rounded to reflect estimate precision and small differences generated by rounding are not material to estimates.
Mineralized Material
We use the term “mineralized material” to describe mineralization in our mineral deposits that do not constitute “reserves” under U.S. reporting requirements as governed by Guide 7.
In addition to our proven and probable reserves, we estimated measured and indicated mineralized material within the definition of Guide 7. Mineralized material does not have demonstrated economic viability. The SEC only permits issuers to report “mineralized material” in tonnage and average grade without reference to contained ounces or quantities of other metals. All of our mineralized material is located at our Oaxaca Mining Unit.
As of December 31, 2016, our estimate of measured and indicated mineralized material was:
For comparison, at December 31, 2015, our estimate of measured and mineralized material was:
Notes to the 2016 measured and indicated (“M & I”) mineralized material:
1.
Metal prices used for M & I mineralized material were $1,225 per ounce of gold, $17.29 per ounce of silver, $2.60 per pound of copper, $0.87 per pound of lead, and $0.94 per pound of zinc. These prices reflect the three-year trailing average prices for gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc.
2.
A breakeven NSR return cutoff grade of $80 per tonne was used for estimations of M & I mineralized material. The term “cutoff grade” means the lowest NSR value considered economic to process.
3.
Metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 89% for gold, 92% for silver, 78% for copper, 74% for lead and 84% for zinc. These recoveries reflect 2016 actual average recoveries for the Oaxaca Mining Unit.
4.
M&I mineralized material represents estimated material in place and diluted and factored for expected mining recovery.
5.
Minimum mining width for M & I mineralized material is 1.5 meters.
6.
Figures in tables are rounded to reflect estimate precision and small differences generated by rounding are not material to estimates.
Our Proven and Probable Reserve and Mineralized Material estimates were prepared by our technical staff under the direction of Barry Devlin, Vice President of Exploration. Mr. Devlin holds a BS degree with honors in Geology, 1981, and a Masters in Geology, 1987, from the University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada. He is also a Professional Geologist registered with the Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of British Columbia.
For a description of the key assumptions, parameters and methods used to estimate Proven and Probable Reserves and Mineralized Material included in this report, as well as data verification procedures and a general discussion of the extent to which the estimates may be affected by any known environmental, permitting, legal, title, taxation, socio-political, marketing or other factors, investors may review the annual reserve report posted on the Company’s website (http://www.goldresourcecorp.com.)
Oaxaca Mining Unit
All of the properties that make up our Oaxaca Mining Unit are located in Oaxaca, Mexico in what is known as the San Jose structural corridor, which runs north 70 degrees west. Our properties comprise 55 continuous kilometers of this structural corridor which spans three historic mining districts in Oaxaca; the map below shows the general location our properties:
We are granted concessions from the Mexican federal government to explore and mine our properties in Mexico. We hold certain properties directly as the concession holder and lease other properties from a third party. Our Oaxaca Mining Unit encompasses 69,748 hectares (172,354 acres) covered by 14 mining concessions and 2 lease concessions. The annual concession fees are $312,000 and we have made all necessary payments in 2016. Please see Mining Concessions and Regulations in Mexico, below.
Operating Properties
Aguila Project
Background: The Aguila Project currently comprises 17 mining concessions aggregating 30,074 hectares.
The early history of activity at the Aguila Project included prospecting and limited mining for gold and silver from the early 1900’s to the mid 1960’s. In 1998, the concessions were leased to Apex Silver Mines Corporation of Denver, Colorado. Apex carried out an exploration program involving geologic mapping, surface sampling and an 11-hole drilling program (1,242 meters). The results did not meet Apex’s expectations so it cancelled its lease on the property in 2002.
In 2002, we leased the Aguila, El Aire and La Tehuana concessions from a third party. The Aguila and El Aire concessions are part of the Aguila Project and the La Tehuana concession comprises the Margaritas property. The Aguila lease agreement is subject to a 4% net smelter return royalty where production is sold in the form of gold/silver doré and 5% for production sold in concentrate form. Subject to meeting minimum exploration requirements, there is no expiration term for the lease. We may terminate it at any time upon written notice to the lessor and the lessor may terminate it if we fail to fulfill any of our obligations, which primarily consist of paying the appropriate royalty to the lessor.
In August 2003, we commenced an initial drilling and exploration program at the Aguila Project. Through 2016, we have drilled a total of 814 core holes (both surface and underground) equaling 245,738 meters and 166 reverse circulation holes equaling 14,367 meters for a total of 980 holes totaling 260,105 meters.
In 2010, we acquired from a third party, at no additional cost, the El Chacal and El Pilon concessions, which are subject to a 2% royalty, but are not subject to the Aguila lease agreement. We filed for and received additional concessions from the Mexican government which are also not part of the concessions leased or acquired from the third party. The mineral concessions making up the Aguila Project are located within the San Pedro Totolapam and San Pedro Quiatoni Ejidos.
Location and Access: The Aguila Project is located in the Sierra Madre del Sur Mountains of southern Mexico in the central part of the State of Oaxaca. The property is located along a major paved highway approximately 120 kilometers southeast of Oaxaca City, the state’s capital city. The property is approximately four kilometers due northwest from the village of San Jose de Gracia. We have constructed gravel and paved roads from the village to the mine and mill sites which provides adequate access to the property.
The climate of the Aguila Project area is dry and warm to very warm with most rainfall occurring in the summer and annual precipitation averaging 423.7 mm. The average yearly temperature is 26.6 degrees centigrade. The area is very rocky with arid vegetation. Subsistence farming occurs and the main agricultural crop is agave cactus that is cultivated for the production of mescal.
Geology and Mineralization: The Aguila Project is located in the San Jose de Gracia Mining District in Oaxaca. Multiple volcanic domes of various scales, and probably non-vented intrusive domes, dominate the district geology. These volcanogenic features are imposed on a pre-volcanic basement of sedimentary rocks. Gold and silver mineralization in this district is related to the manifestations of this classic volcanogenic system and is considered epithermal in character.
Historically, we have produced ore from two locations on the Aguila property, the Aguila open pit mine and the underground mine at the Arista vein system. The Aguila open pit mineralization is considered low sulfidation, epithermal mineralization primarily of gold with some silver and no base metals. The Arista vein system is considered intermediate epithermal mineralization of gold, silver, copper, lead, and zinc. The host rock at the Arista vein system is primarily andesite.
Facilities: We constructed a mill facility and infrastructure at the Aguila Project for approximately $35 million in 2009, and expanded the mill facility in 2012 and 2013, spending an additional $23 million. The flotation mill expansion, completed at the end of 2013, increased the number of flotation cells, added a second ball mill to allow for additional processing capacity and a Knelson gravity concentrator. In 2014 we completed a doré processing facility. The Aguila Mill is flexible in its ability to process several types of mineralization. It has a differential flotation section capable of processing polymetallic ore and producing up to three separate concentrate products for sale. The mill also has an agitated leach circuit capable of producing gold and silver doré for sale. Depending on the specific type and characteristics of the ore, the mill can process sulfide material in its flotation circuit at a nominal 1,500 tonnes of ore per day. The agitated leach circuit can process a nominal 300 tonnes per day.
Power is provided by diesel generators at the site. We obtained water rights from the Mexican government for an amount of water that we believe is sufficient to meet our operating requirements and pump it approximately five kilometers to the site from a permitted well located near the Totolapam River.
Additional improvements at the site include a second diesel generation power plant and switch gear, paving a three kilometer section of the road from the mine to the mill, construction of a new surface maintenance garage and fuel station, haul roads from the mine site to the mill, mill facility office space, an assay lab, an exploration office, a tailings impoundment facility and other infrastructure.
Construction during 2016 included a new underground water pumping station which was completed on level 20 with a nominal capacity of 2,500 gallons per minute. A phase four tailings dam, in which the existing dam is raised, is planned during 2017 and is estimated to provide an additional three years of holding capacity.
Please see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information concerning our mining operations at the Aguila Project.
Exploration Properties
Margaritas Property
The Margaritas property is made up of the La Tehuana concession. We leased this concession from a third party in October 2002 along with two of the concessions comprising the Aguila property. The terms of this agreement are discussed under “Aguila Project” above. It is comprised of approximately 925 hectares located along our 55 kilometer mineralized trend and adjacent to the Aguila Project
In 2016, we completed an initial drilling program during the fourth quarter on a new gold and silver mineralized zone called “Trenes” identified at our Margaritas property. Trenes is located approximately 10 kilometers northwest of the Arista Mine along our 55 kilometer mineralized trend. We drilled 5 core holes totaling 2,855 meters in 2016. Encouraging results were returned including a one-meter wide vein grading 0.65 g/t gold and 250 g/t silver. Results of our initial surface diamond drilling program at Trenes will be evaluated during 2017 for additional drill planning.
Alta Gracia Property
In August 2009, we acquired claims adjacent to the Margaritas property in the Alta Gracia Mining District by filing concessions known as the David 1, the David 2 and La Herradura, totaling 5,175 hectares.
In 2016, surface and underground geological mapping and sampling along with detailed topographic surveying was conducted in the historic mining areas at Alta Gracia. The new information was used for estimation of ore and mineralized material and to guide follow-up drilling planned for Alta Gracia in 2017. Mine permits were granted in October of 2016 and mine development including the improvement of historical mine workings commenced to access previously identified mineralization. Production commencement is targeted for the first quarter of 2017.
Chamizo Property
In June 2011, we staked mineral claims between the Rey property and Alta Gracia property along a trend and acquired an exploration concession from the Mexican government of approximately 26,386 hectares referred to as Chamizo. In March 2013, we acquired a property known as Cerro Colorado (comprised of the San Pedro Fracc. 2 concession) from Almaden Minerals, Ltd. consisting of approximately 1,860 hectares. The Cerro Colorado property is surrounded by our Chamizo concession and we include it as part of the Chamizo property. Any future production from the Cerro Colorado concession is subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty in favor of Almaden.
Because of the close proximity of Chamizo to Alta Gracia, exploration activity began on this property during late 2011 and to date has included geochemical sampling and drilling of eight shallow core holes for a total of 1,327 meters. No significant work was conducted at Chamizo during 2016. In 2017, surface geological mapping and geochemical sampling of several new prospective targets identified on the Chamizo property is planned.
Fuego Property
In March 2013, we acquired the Fuego property (comprised of the San Pedro Fracc. 1 concession) from Almaden Minerals Ltd. subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty. The Fuego property consists of approximately 2,554 hectares and is located south of our Alta Gracia and Chamizo properties. In 2013, Fuego was included in the property-wide airborne geophysical survey. Geologic mapping and surface sampling were conducted on the Fuego property during 2013 through 2016 to allow us to meet the acceptable minimum amount of work required to maintain the claims. We plan to conduct further geologic mapping and sampling in 2017.
Rey Property
The Rey property consists of concessions on the far northwest end of our 55 kilometer mineralized corridor in the State of Oaxaca known as Rey, El Virrey, La Reyna and El Marquez. We acquired the Rey concession from a third party and it is subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty payable to them on a portion of the claims. We obtained the remaining concessions by staking claims and filing for concessions with the Mexican government.
The Rey property is located approximately 64.4 kilometers by road from the Aguila Project. There is no plant or equipment on the Rey property. If exploration is successful, any mining would probably require an underground mine where mineralized material could be trucked to the Aguila Mill located on the Aguila Project for processing. Limited drilling at Rey has encountered gold and silver mineralization up to one meter of 132.5 g/t gold and 1.5 meters of 958 g/t silver. The mineralized material has been located within 100 meters from the surface. To date, we have drilled 48 core holes for a total of 5,273 meters at the Rey property. Early in 2012, we completed a small amount of work to finish refurbishing and extending an existing shaft on the property to permit underground exploratory drilling. We ceased work at the Rey property during 2012, following a request to obtain additional approvals from local community agencies. We continue to work with the local agencies and anticipate resolving the matter, but we have no assurance that we will be able to resume our exploration activities in the near term. If the matter is resolved, we will conduct follow-up drilling and exploration based on the drilling done in 2008. We do not anticipate any significant exploration activities at Rey in 2017. However, we plan to conduct the acceptable minimum amount of work required to maintain the claims.
Mining Concessions and Regulations in Mexico
Mineral rights in Mexico belong to the Mexican federal government and are administered pursuant to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution. All of our mining concessions are exploitation concessions, which may be granted or transferred to Mexican citizens and corporations. Our leases or concessions are held by our Mexican subsidiary. Exploitation concessions have a term of 50 years and can be renewed for another 50 years. Concessions grant us the right to explore and exploit all minerals found in the ground. Maintenance of concessions requires the semi-annual payment of mining duties (due in January and July) and the performance of assessment work, on a calendar year basis, with assessment work reports required to be filed in the month of May for the preceding calendar year. The amount of mining duties and annual assessment are set by regulation, may increase over the life of the concession and include periodic adjustments for inflation. Mining concessions are registered at the Public Registry of Mining in Mexico City and in regional offices in Mexico.
Mexican mining law does not require payment of finder’s fees to the government, except for a discovery premium in connection with national mineral reserves, concessions and claims or allotments contracted directly from the Mexican Geological Survey. None of the claims held by DDGM are under such a discovery premium regime.
Ejido Lands and Surface Right Acquisitions in Mexico
Surface lands within our Oaxaca Mining Unit are Ejido lands (agrarian cooperative lands granted by the federal government to groups of Campesinos pursuant to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution of 1917). Prior to January 1, 1994, Ejidos could not transfer Ejido lands into private ownership. Amendments to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution in 1994 now allow individual property ownership within Ejidos and allow Ejidos to enter into commercial ventures with individuals or entities, including foreign corporations. We have an agreement with the local San Pedro
Totolapam Ejido allowing exploration and exploitation of mineralization at the Aguila Project and some of our surrounding properties.
Mexican law recognizes mining as a land use generally superior to agriculture. However, the law also recognizes the rights of the Ejidos to compensation in the event mining activity interrupts or discontinues their use of the agricultural lands. Compensation is typically made in the form of a cash payment to the holder of the agricultural rights. The amount of such compensation is generally related to the perceived value of the agricultural rights as negotiated in the first instance between the Ejidos and the owner of the mineral rights. If the parties are unable to reach agreement on the amount of the compensation, the decision will be referred to the government.
We have established surface rights agreements with the San Pedro Totolapam Ejido and the individuals impacted by our proposed operations which allow disturbance of the surface where necessary for our exploration activities and mining operations.
Nevada Mining Unit
In Nevada, we are the owner of or hold the option to purchase 613 unpatented mining claims covering 12,061 acres, subject to the paramount title of the United States of America, under the administration of the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”). Under the Mining Law of 1872, which governs the location of unpatented mining claims on Federal lands, the owner (locator) has the right to explore, develop, and mine minerals on unpatented mining claims without payments of production royalties to the U.S. government, subject to the surface management regulation of the BLM. Currently, annual claim maintenance fees are the only federal payments related to unpatented mining claims. Annual maintenance fees of $95,000 were paid during 2016.
In addition to the unpatented claims, we also own 8 patented mining claims covering 143 acres. The patented claims are subject to payment of annual property taxes made to the county where the patented claims are located. Annual property taxes on our patented claims have been paid through June 30, 2017.
Our primary focus is to discover, delineate and advance potential open pit heap leach gold operations at our Nevada Mining Unit and begin production in the shortest time possible. We also target equipment sharing synergies whereby we may move equipment from one project to the next due to their close proximity (~20 miles or less). The map below shows the general location of our properties within Nevada:
Exploration Properties
Our properties in Nevada are located in the Walker Lane Mineral Belt which is known for its significant and high-grade gold-silver production. Activities at our properties in Nevada range from exploration to mineral delineation phase at Gold Mesa and Mina Gold to advanced engineering and permitting at Isabella Pearl. We believe that our Nevada properties are highly prospective based on their proximity to other high-grade gold-silver production in addition to known drilled high-grade mineralization on the properties and the third party resource in the case of the Isabella Pearl Project. We believe that our Nevada properties have excellent potential for additional discoveries of both bulk tonnage replacement-type and bonanza-grade vein-type gold deposits, similar to other gold deposits historically mined in the Paradise Peak and Goldfield districts.
Gold Mesa Property
In November 2015, we acquired an option to purchase a gold exploration property in Nevada, held by Silver Reserve Corporation (“SRC”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Infrastructure Materials Corp., which we refer to as “Gold Mesa.” The option gives the Company the exclusive right to purchase the property at any time over a term of 36 months. The option is exercisable for $270,000 cash and restricted common stock valued at $1,000,000 at closing. There are no work commitments associated with this option.
Gold Mesa consists of approximately 1,780 acres with 229 unpatented claims and 3 patented claims in central Nevada’s Walker Lane Mineral Belt. A portion of the property’s claims were mined historically on a very small scale as an underground mine in the early 1900’s and as a small open pit mine in the late 1980’s. Existing infrastructure includes nearby electricity, road access and potential water from a historic well located on the property. Gold Mesa includes the gold property historically known as the Clay Peters Project. After acquiring our option, we staked an additional 140 unpatented claims totaling approximately 2,800 acres which surrounds the original Gold Mesa property.
The property is subject to a NSR of 2% in favor of SRC on any future production on all claims with no existing royalties and a 1% NSR on the three patented claims. There is an existing 2% NSR on the three patented claims payable to an unrelated third party. We have additional rights to purchase one half of each of the 2% NSR and 1% NSR from SRC subject to certain terms and restrictions and a first right of refusal to purchase the entire NSR upon a proposed disposition by SRC.
In April of 2016, we began our first drill program at our Gold Mesa property to follow up on historic high-grade third party drill results. In June we announced the results of our initial drill program with high-grade results including 15.24 meters of 6.27 g/t starting at 9 meters downhole, 33.54 meters of 1.89 g/t gold and 9.1 meters grading 2.24 g/t among other high-grade results. In October we announced results from a second drill program including 12.19 meters of 3.34 g/t gold. Surface and near surface high-grade intercepts warranted a third drill program that took place in the fourth quarter with results pending. During 2016, we completed a total of 120 holes consisting of 3,965 meters of reverse circulation drilling. With continued drilling success, the property has the potential to become an open pit heap leach gold operation. Further drilling is targeted for 2017.
Isabella Pearl
In August of 2016, we purchased 100% interest in the Isabella Pearl Project which contains third party Proven and Probable Reserves of 191,400 gold ounces at an average grade of 2.18 g/t and is in advanced stages of engineering and production permitting. After acquiring Isabella Pearl, we drilled several holes in the deposit for further mineral delineation and additional metallurgical testing. This included 4 holes totaling 735 meters of core drilling and 82 meters in 6 holes of reverse circulation drilling. We also drilled a 400 meter deep water well to supply the project’s future water needs for gold production. We have retained several engineering firms in Reno, Nevada to assist us with engineering and we are finalizing our internal mine scheduling and project designs. We target, in the near term, to re-submit the Environmental Assessment (EA) for our project production permit. Our goal is to advance the project into production at the earliest possible date, subject to permit timing and funding. We are targeting the production of gold doré from a potential open pit heap leach operation.
Mina Gold
In August of 2016, we purchased 100% interest in the Mina Gold property located in Mineral County Nevada’s Walker Lane Mineral Belt. The property has the potential to be a future open pit heap leach gold operation. Mina Gold contains an historic third party estimate of mineralized material totaling 1,606,000 tonnes grading 1.88 g/t gold. The property covers an area of approximately 825 acres consisting of 43 unpatented claims and 5 patented claims. In the fourth quarter of 2016 we began our first drill program on the property and we completed 23 holes consisting of 648 meters of reverse circulation drilling and await pending assays. Further drilling is targeted for 2017.
Office Facilities
We constructed an administrative office building adjacent to the mill site as part of the facilities at the Aguila Project. We also lease office space in Oaxaca City, Oaxaca consisting of approximately 3,000 square feet. The lease commenced in 2012 for ten years. In 2014, we sold the building that serves as our executive and administrative headquarters in Colorado Springs, Colorado and have leased back a portion under a renewable one-year lease. We also lease an office in Denver, Colorado consisting of approximately 2,500 square feet, which we renewed in 2015 for three years.
Glossary
The following terms used in this report shall have the following meanings:
Andesite:
An extrusive igneous, volcanic rock, of intermediate composition, with aphanitic to porphyritic texture characteristic of subduction zones, such as the western margin of South America.
Concentrate:
A product from a mineral processing facility such as gravity separation or flotation in which the valuable constituents have been upgraded and unwanted gangue materials rejected as waste.
Cut-and-fill:
Underground mining method used in vertical stopes in which successive cutting of the ore into horizontal slices is carried out starting from the bottom of the stope and progressing upwards towards the surface.
Doré:
Composite gold and silver bullion usually consisting of approximately 90% precious metals that will be further refined to separate pure metals.
Drift:
A horizontal tunnel generally driven within or alongside an orebody and aligned parallel to the long dimension of the ore.
Epithermal:
Used to describe gold deposits found on or just below the surface close to vents or volcanoes, formed at low temperature and pressure.
Exploration:
Prospecting, sampling, mapping, diamond-drilling and other work involved in locating the presence of economic deposits and establishing their nature, shape and grade.
Grade:
The concentration of an element of interest expressed as relative mass units (percentage, ounces per ton, grams per tonne (“g/t”), etc.).
Hectare:
Another metric unit of measurement, for surface area. One hectare equals 1/200th of a square kilometer, 10,000 square meters, or 2.47 acres. A hectare is approximately the size of a soccer field.
Long-hole Stoping:
Mining method which uses holes drilled by a production drill to a predetermined pattern by a mining engineer. Long-hole stoping is a highly selective and productive method of mining and can cater for varying ore thicknesses and dips (0 - 90 degree). Blasted rock is designed to fall into a supported drawpoint or removed with remote control LHD (load, haul, dump machine)
Mineralized Material:
Minerals or any mass of host rock in which minerals of potential commercial value occur.
Net Smelter Return
(“NSR”):
The net revenue that the owner of a mining property receives from the sale of the mine's metal products less transportation and refining costs. As a royalty it refers to the fraction of net smelter return that a mine operator is obligated to pay the owner of the royalty agreement.
Mineral Deposit:
Rocks that contain economic amounts of minerals in them and that are expected to be profitably mined.
Patented Claim:
A mining claim for which the U.S. Federal Government has passed its title to the claimant, making it private land. A person may mine and remove minerals from a mining claim without a mineral patent. However, a mineral patent gives the owner exclusive title to the locatable minerals.
Tonne:
A metric ton. One tonne equals 1000 kg. It is equal to approximately 2,204.62 pounds.
Unpatented Claim:
A particular parcel of U.S. Federal land, valuable for a specific mineral deposit or deposits. It is a parcel for which an individual has asserted a right of possession. The right is restricted to the extraction and development of a mineral deposit
Volcanogenic:
Of volcanic origin.
Volcanic domes:
These are mounds that form when viscous lava is erupted slowly and piles up over the vent, rather than moving away as lava flow. The sides of most domes are very steep and typically are mantled with unstable rock debris formed during or shortly after dome emplacement. Most domes are composed of silica-rich lava which may contain enough pressurized gas to cause explosions during dome extrusion.
ITEM 3.