ITEM 2.PROPERTIES
We classify our mineral properties into two categories: “Operating Properties” and “Exploration Properties.” Operating Properties are properties on which we operate a producing mine and are what we consider a “material”
property in accordance with Guide 7. We do not consider any of our Exploration Properties to be a “material” property for purposes of Guide 7. We anticipate that all exploration activities at our Exploration Properties will be funded through our working capital.
We currently have an interest in nine properties. Six of our properties, including one Operating Property and five Exploration Properties, are within our Oaxaca Mining Unit located in the southern state of Oaxaca, Mexico (“Oaxaca”). In addition, we have three Exploration Properties within our Nevada Mining Unit located in south central Nevada’s Walker Lane Mineral Belt in the United States (“Nevada”). We lease two of the Nevada properties and have an option to purchase the third. Please see Item 1. Business for additional information about our business.
Proven and Probable Reserves
The term “proven (measured) reserves” means reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes, grade, and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that the size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves is well established. The term “probable (indicated) reserves” means reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling, and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven (measured) reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
In April 2014, we announced the completion of our initial reserve study and issued a report dated December 31, 2013, confirming the existence of proven and probable reserves as defined in Guide 7. All of our reserves are located at our Arista underground mine.
We plan to update our reserve report annually.
As of December 31, 2015, our estimate of proven and probable reserves was:
For comparison, at December 31, 2014, our estimate of proven and probable reserves was:
Notes to the 2015 Proven and Probable (“P & P”) reserves:
1.
Metal prices used for P & P reserves were $1,279 per ounce of gold, $19.53 per ounce of silver, $2.98 per pound of copper, $0.91 per pound of lead and $0.91 per pound of zinc. These prices reflect the three-year trailing average prices for gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc.
2.
Precious metal gold equivalent is 65.50:1 using gold and silver only to calculate gold equivalents.
3.
A breakeven Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) cutoff grade of $100 per tonne was used for estimations of P & P reserves. The term “cutoff
grade” means the lowest NSR value considered economic to process.
4.
Mining, processing, energy, administrative and smelting/refining costs were based on 2015 actual costs for the Aguila Project.
5.
Metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 90% for gold, 93% for silver, 80% for copper, 74% for lead and 83% for zinc. These recoveries reflect 2015 actual average recoveries for the Aguila project.
6.
P & P reserves represents estimated in-place material, diluted and factored for expected mining recovery.
7.
Minimum mining width for P & P reserves is 1.5 meters.
8.
Figures in tables are rounded to reflect estimate precision and small differences generated by rounding are not material to estimates.
Mineralized Material
We use the term “mineralized material” to describe mineralization in our mineral deposits that do not constitute “reserves” under U.S. reporting requirements as governed by Guide 7.
In addition to our proven and probable reserves, we estimated measured and indicated mineralized material within the definition of Guide 7. Mineralized material does not have demonstrated economic viability. The SEC only permits issuers to report “mineralized material” in tonnage and average grade without reference to contained ounces or quantities of other metals.
As of December 31, 2015, our measured and indicated mineralized material was:
For comparison, at December 31, 2014, our estimate of measured and mineralized material was:
Notes to the 2015 measured and indicated (“M & I”) mineralized material:
1.
Metal prices used for M & I mineralized material were $1,279 per ounce of gold, $19.53 per ounce of silver, $2.98 per pound of copper, $0.91 per pound of lead, and $0.91 per pound of zinc. These prices reflect the three-year trailing average prices for gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc.
2.
A breakeven NSR return cutoff grade of $100 per tonne was used for estimations of M & I mineralized material. The term “cutoff grade”
means the lowest NSR value considered economic to process.
3.
Metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 90% for gold, 93% for silver, 80% for copper, 74% for lead and 83% for zinc. These recoveries reflect 2015 actual average recoveries for the Aguila project.
4.
M&I mineralized material represents estimated material in place and diluted and factored for expected mining recovery.
5.
Minimum mining width for M & I mineralized material is 1.5 meters.
6.
Figures in tables are rounded to reflect estimate precision and small differences generated by rounding are not material to estimates.
Our Proven and Probable Reserve and Mineralized Material estimates were prepared by our technical staff under the direction of Barry Devlin, Vice President of Exploration. Mr. Devlin holds a BS degree with honors in Geology, 1981, and a Masters in Geology, 1987, from the University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada. He is also a Professional Geologist registered with the Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of British Columbia.
For a description of the key assumptions, parameters and methods used to estimate Proven and Probable Reserves and Mineralized Material included in this Form 10-K, as well as data verification procedures and a general discussion of the extent to which the estimates may be affected by any known environmental, permitting, legal, title, taxation, socio-political, marketing or other factors, investors may review the annual reserve report posted on the Company’s website (http://www.goldresourcecorp.com.)
Oaxaca Mining Unit
All of the properties that make up our Oaxaca Mining Unit are located in Oaxaca, Mexico in what is known as the San Jose structural corridor, which runs north 70 degrees west. Our properties comprise 55 continuous kilometers of this structural corridor which spans three historic mining districts in Oaxaca; the map below shows the general location our properties:
We are granted concessions from the Mexican federal government to explore and mine our properties in Mexico, please see Mining Concessions and Regulations in Mexico, below. We hold certain properties as the concession holder and lease other properties from a third party. We are required to pay concession fees to the Mexican government to maintain our interest in these concessions, and we pay concession fees for all of our mineral properties, including those which are subject to the third-party lease. The table below details information related to the mining concessions that comprise our properties in our Oaxaca Mining Unit:
* One hectare is equal to 2.4711 acres. The 73,748 hectares in which we hold an interest is equal to approximately 285 square miles.
Operating Properties
Aguila Project
Background: The Aguila Project currently comprises 17 mining concessions aggregating 30,074 hectares as described in the table above.
The early history of activity at the Aguila Project, as known by us, included prospecting and limited mining for gold and silver from the early 1900’s to the mid 1960’s. In 1998, the concessions were leased to Apex Silver Mines
Corporation of Denver, Colorado. Apex carried out an exploration program involving geologic mapping, surface sampling and an 11-hole drilling program (1,242 meters). The results did not meet Apex’s expectations so it cancelled its lease on the property in 2002.
In 2002, we leased the Aguila, El Aire and La Tehuana concessions from a third party. The Aguila and El Aire concessions are part of the Aguila Project and the La Tehuana concession comprises the Margaritas property. The Aguila lease agreement is subject to a 4% net smelter return royalty where production is sold in the form of gold/silver doré and 5% for production sold in concentrate form. Subject to meeting minimum exploration requirements, there is no expiration term for the lease. We may terminate it at any time upon written notice to the lessor and the lessor may terminate it if we fail to fulfill any of our obligations, which primarily consist of paying the appropriate royalty to the lessor.
In August 2003, we commenced an initial drilling and exploration program at the Aguila Project. Through 2015, we have drilled a total of 814 core holes (both surface and underground) equaling 245,738 meters and 166 reverse circulation holes equaling 14,367 meters for a total of 980 holes totaling 260,105 meters.
In 2010, we acquired from a third party, at no additional cost, the El Chacal and El Pilon concessions, which are subject to a 2% royalty, but are not subject to the Aguila lease agreement. We filed for and received additional concessions from the Mexican government which are also not part of the concessions leased or acquired from the third party. The mineral concessions making up the Aguila Project are located within the San Pedro Totolapam and San Pedro Quiatoni Ejidos.
Location and Access: The Aguila Project is located in the Sierra Madre del Sur Mountains of southern Mexico in the central part of the State of Oaxaca. The property is located along a major paved highway approximately 120 kilometers southeast of Oaxaca City, the state’s capital city. The property is approximately four kilometers due northwest from the village of San Jose de Gracia. We have constructed gravel and paved roads from the village to the mine and mill sites which supports adequate access to the property.
The climate of the Aguila Project area is dry and warm to very warm with most rainfall occurring in the summer and annual precipitation averaging 423.7 mm. The average yearly temperature is 26.6 degrees centigrade. The area is very rocky with arid vegetation. Subsistence farming occurs and the main agricultural crop is agave cactus that is cultivated for the production of mescal.
Geology and Mineralization: The Aguila Project is located in the San Jose de Gracia Mining District in Oaxaca. Multiple volcanic domes of various scales, and probably non-vented intrusive domes, dominate the district geology. These volcanogenic features are imposed on a pre-volcanic basement of sedimentary rocks. Gold and silver mineralization in this district is related to the manifestations of this classic volcanogenic system and is considered epithermal in character.
Historically, we have produced ore from two locations on the Aguila property, the Aguila open pit mine and the underground mine at the Arista vein system. The Aguila open pit mineralization is considered low sulfidation, epithermal mineralization primarily of gold with some silver and no base metals. The Arista vein system is considered intermediate epithermal mineralization of gold, silver, copper, lead, and zinc. The host rock at the Arista vein system is primarily andesite.
Facilities: We constructed a mill facility and infrastructure at the Aguila Project for approximately $35 million in 2009, and expanded the mill facility in 2012 and 2013, spending an additional $23 million. The flotation mill expansion, completed at the end of 2013, increased the number of flotation cells, added a second ball mill to allow for additional processing capacity and a Knelson gravity concentrator. In 2014 we completed a doré processing facility. The Aguila mill is flexible in its ability to process several types of mineralization. It has a differential flotation section capable of processing polymetallic mineralized material and producing up to three separate concentrate products for sale. The mill also has an agitated leach circuit capable of producing gold and silver doré for sale. Depending on the specific type and characteristics of the mineralized material, the mill can process sulfide material in its flotation circuit at a nominal 1,500 tonnes of mineralized material per day. The agitated leach circuit can process a nominal 300 tonnes per day.
Power is provided by diesel generators at the site. We obtained water rights from the Mexican government for an amount of water that we believe is sufficient to meet our operating requirements and pump it approximately five kilometers to the site from a permitted well located near the Totolapam River.
Additional improvements at the site include a second diesel generation power plant and switch gear, paving a three kilometer section of the road from the mine to the mill, construction of a new surface maintenance garage and fuel station, haul roads from the mine site to the mill, mill facility office space, an assay lab, an exploration office, a tailings impoundment facility and other infrastructure.
During 2015 a third phase tailings facility was constructed with an estimated two and a half years holding capacity, depending on mill throughput. A phase four tailings facility has been engineered and is planned for construction during 2017.
Exploration Activities
Exploration at the Aguila Project during 2015 primarily focused on the Arista mine’s Arista and Switchback vein systems. Currently more than 20 veins have been identified at the Arista vein system. The new Viridiana vein was discovered during 2015 along with indications of additional veins. The relatively new Switchback vein system has at least 7 veins with indications of additional veins as well. Drilling the Arista vein system has shown mineralized material over 1,000 meters of strike length and more than 500 meters of depth with certain veins open along strike and depth. Drilling the Switchback vein system has shown mineralized material 450 meters on strike and 450 meters depth with certain veins open on strike and depth.
During the year we focused primarily on infill and step-out drilling to further define the Arista mine’s mineralization and to assist in mine planning. In addition to targeting the vein systems at the Arista underground mine, surface exploration drilling was conducted on the Aguila Project targeting the potential feeder veins of the Aguila open pit, and Santiago veins and the Escondida and Salina Blanca prospects located northwest and southwest of the Arista mine, respectively. We completed an additional 93 diamond drill holes (both surface and underground) totaling 29,363 meters. Economically significant gold, silver and base metal values at Escondida and Salina Blanca were encountered and further drilling is planned in 2016. The results from these activities have also generated additional exploration targets that are marked for future drilling.
During 2015, we drifted approximately 450 meters from our Arista vein system towards the Switchback vein system located approximately 500 meters to the northeast. In order to test for potential water flows in the Switchback veins, and prepare for water management, we stopped the drift approximately 50 meters from the veins and set up a third drill station from which we tested for water. The initial holes did not encounter an appreciable amount of water, although we do expect to encounter water courses in the future as we develop the Switchback vein system. From the new drill station, we continued our exploration with infill and step-out holes which intercepted high-grade polymetallic gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc mineralization in multiple en echelon veins. 2015 drill highlights included a 15.22 meters wide zone averaging 3.18 g/t gold, 292 g/t silver, 0.87% copper, 1.56% lead and 4.26% zinc which included 1.15 meters grading 12.65 g/t gold, 822 g/t silver, 0.75% copper, 0.93% lead and 1.59% zinc.
Development plans in 2016 include the completion of a second drift from the Arista vein system to the Switchback vein system, which will be located approximately seven levels (140 meters) below the first drift driven to Switchback in 2015 from the fourteen level. Construction of the second drift to Switchback began in January 2016 with a goal to complete it during the third quarter of 2016, which will be dependent on drift progression, rock competency, and potential water courses that may be encountered during development. Once the second drift reaches Switchback, multiple levels are planned for development between these two drifts, followed by preparation of ore blocks for future bulk tonnage mining.
The 2016 exploration program’s primary goal is to continue expanding the Arista mine’s mineralization at both the Arista and Switchback vein systems. As we continue to drill and expand Switchback along both strike and depth, we look forward to planned Switchback mine development advancing to a point where we can touch the mineralized veins
and potentially convert Switchback mineralized material into proven and probable reserves for 2017.
Please see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information concerning our mining operations at the Aguila Project.
Exploration Properties
Margaritas Property
The Margaritas property is made up of the La Tehuana concession. We leased this concession from a third party in October 2002 along with two of the concessions comprising the Aguila property. The terms of this agreement are discussed under “Aguila Project” above. It is comprised of approximately 925 hectares located along our 55 kilometer mineralized trend and adjacent to the Aguila Project.
At the Margaritas property, we drilled 23 holes totaling 10,409 meters in 2015; to-date, we have drilled 47 core holes for a total of 18,444 meters. High-grade drill results in 2015 were mainly on the Tapada Vein which included 2.15 meters grading 1.15 g/t gold and 599 g/t silver, 0.68 meters grading 1.65 g/t gold and 1,260 g/t silver and 0.30 meters grading 7.05 g/t gold and 4,010 g/t silver. In 2015, a soil and rock geochemical program also continued at the Margaritas property. This program expanded upon the geochemical program began in 2014. Soil and rock samples were collected on lines oriented from southwest to northeast across the projection of known regional structures. The soil data showed a series of west-northwest and northwest trending trends visible in the epithermal pathfinder suite of metals (gold, silver, arsenic, antimony, mercury and thallium). These linear patterns spatially correlate with known historical mining in the Margaritas district. The linear patterns also extend beyond and between the known workings and establish additional trends for prospecting along mapped structural orientations. Geological mapping and geochemical sampling identified a new gold and silver mineralized zone called “Trenes” at Margaritas with rock chip samples returning values up to 1.0 meter of 2.67 g/t gold and 240 g/t silver. An initial surface diamond drilling program is being planned for Trenes in 2016.
Alta Gracia Property
In August 2009, we acquired claims adjacent to the Margaritas property in the Alta Gracia Mining District by filing concessions known as the David 1, the David 2 and La Herradura, totaling 5,175 hectares.
Additional follow-up surface drilling was conducted at Alta Gracia during 2015 with 9 diamond drill holes totaling 2,554 meters completed; to date, we have drilled 97 core holes for a total of 21,675 meters. The 2015 drill campaign continued to focus on the Mirador vein near the historic Mirador underground mine. High-grade intercepts on the Mirador vein included 4.01 meters averaging 2.52 g/t gold and 595 g/t silver. A second Mirador vein intercept in the hanging wall returned 2.12 meters grading 1.74 g/t gold and 493 g/t silver. The Mirador vein gold and silver mineralization discovered to date still does not show any appreciable base metals, so this precious metal mineralization can potentially be trucked to and processed through the agitated leach circuit at our mill located at our Aguila Project. In 2015, mineable resources were estimated and metallurgical test work completed with mining and processing of Alta Gracia mineralized material contemplated at our Aguila processing facility in 2016. Follow-up drilling is also being planned for Alta Gracia in 2016.
Chamizo Property
In June 2011, we staked mineral claims between the Rey property and Alta Gracia property along a trend and acquired an exploration concession from the Mexican government of approximately 26,386 hectares referred to as Chamizo. In March 2013, we acquired a property known as Cerro Colorado (comprised of the San Pedro Fracc. 2 concession) from Almaden Minerals, Ltd. consisting of approximately 1,860 hectares. The Cerro Colorado property is surrounded by our Chamizo concession and we include it as part of the Chamizo property. Any future production from the Cerro Colorado concession is subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty in favor of Almaden.
Because of the close proximity of Chamizo to Alta Gracia, exploration activity began on this property during late 2011 and to date has been limited to geochemical sampling and drilling of eight shallow core holes for a total of 1,327 meters. No significant work was conducted at Chamizo during 2015. In 2016, surface geological mapping and geochemical sampling of several new prospective targets identified on the Chamizo property is expected to continue.
Fuego Property
In March 2013, we acquired the Fuego property (comprised of the San Pedro Fracc. 1 concession) from Almaden Minerals Ltd. subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty. The Fuego property consists of approximately 2,554 hectares and is located south of our Alta Gracia and Chamizo properties. In 2013, Fuego was included in the property-wide airborne geophysical survey. Geologic mapping and surface sampling were conducted on the Fuego property during 2013 through 2015 to allow us to meet the acceptable minimum amount of work required to maintain the claims. We plan to conduct further geologic mapping and sampling in 2016.
Rey Property
The Rey property consists of concessions on the far northwest end of our 55 kilometer mineralized corridor in the State of Oaxaca known as Rey, El Virrey, La Reyna and El Marquez. We acquired the Rey concession from a third party and it is subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty payable to them on a portion of the claims. We obtained the remaining concessions by staking claims and filing for concessions with the Mexican government.
The Rey property is located approximately 64.4 kilometers by road from the Aguila Project. There is no plant or equipment on the Rey property. If exploration is successful, any mining would probably require an underground mine where mineralized material could be trucked to the Aguila mill located on the Aguila Project for processing. Limited drilling at Rey has encountered gold and silver mineralization up to one meter of 132.5 g/t gold and 1.5 meters of 958 g/t silver. The mineralized material has been located within 100 meters from the surface. To date, we have drilled 48 core holes for a total of 5,273 meters at the Rey property. Early in 2012, we completed a small amount of work to finish refurbishing and extending an existing shaft on the property to permit underground exploratory drilling. We ceased work at the Rey property during 2012, following a request to obtain additional approvals from local community agencies. We continue to work with the local agencies and anticipate resolving the matter, but we have no assurance that we will be able to resume our exploration activities in the near term. If the matter is resolved, we will conduct follow-up drilling and exploration based on the drilling done in 2008. We do not anticipate any significant exploration activities at Rey in 2016. However, we plan to conduct the acceptable minimum amount of work required to maintain the claims.
Mining Concessions and Regulations in Mexico
Mineral rights in Mexico belong to the Mexican federal government and are administered pursuant to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution. All of our mining concessions are exploitation concessions, which may be granted or transferred to Mexican citizens and corporations. Our leases or concessions are held by our Mexican subsidiary. Exploitation concessions have a term of 50 years and can be renewed for another 50 years. Concessions grant us the right to explore and exploit all minerals found in the ground. Maintenance of concessions requires the semi-annual payment of mining duties (due in January and July) and the performance of assessment work, on a calendar year basis, with assessment work reports required to be filed in the month of May for the preceding calendar year. The amount of mining duties and annual assessment are set by regulation, may increase over the life of the concession and include periodic adjustments for inflation. Mining concessions are registered at the Public Registry of Mining in Mexico City and in regional offices in Mexico.
Mexican mining law does not require payment of finder’s fees to the government, except for a discovery premium in connection with national mineral reserves, concessions and claims or allotments contracted directly from the Mexican Geological Survey. None of the claims held by DDGM are under such a discovery premium regime.
Ejido Lands and Surface Right Acquisitions in Mexico
Surface lands within our Oaxaca Mining Unit are Ejido lands (agrarian cooperative lands granted by the federal government to groups of Campesinos pursuant to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution of 1917). Prior to January 1, 1994, Ejidos could not transfer Ejido lands into private ownership. Amendments to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution in 1994 now allow individual property ownership within Ejidos and allow Ejidos to enter into commercial ventures with individuals or entities, including foreign corporations. We have an agreement with the local San Pedro Totolapam Ejido allowing exploration and exploitation of mineralization at the Aguila Project and some of our surrounding properties.
Mexican law recognizes mining as a land use generally superior to agriculture. However, the law also recognizes the rights of the Ejidos to compensation in the event mining activity interrupts or discontinues their use of the agricultural lands. Compensation is typically made in the form of a cash payment to the holder of the agricultural rights. The amount of such compensation is generally related to the perceived value of the agricultural rights as negotiated in the first instance between the Ejidos and the owner of the mineral rights. If the parties are unable to reach agreement on the amount of the compensation, the decision will be referred to the government.
We have established surface rights agreements with the San Pedro Totolapam Ejido and the individuals impacted by our proposed operations which allow disturbance of the surface where necessary for our exploration activities and mining operations.
Nevada Mining Unit
Exploration Properties
Radar Property
In September 2014, we leased the Radar property from Altan Nevada Minerals Limited for ten years. The Radar property covers an area of approximately 3,550 acres and is made up of 178 unpatented lode claims located in the area known as the Walker Lane Mineral Belt in central Nevada. Radar is immediately adjacent to the past-producing gold-silver-mercury Paradise Peak Mine, near the Round Mountain and Rawhide mines. Pursuant to the lease, we are required to make work expenditures of up to $250,000 annually to maintain our interest in the property and at our option we may purchase the property for $1.5 million, subject to a 3% net smelter return (“NSR”) royalty, at any time prior to the expiration of the lease term.
In 2015, we conducted detailed and property-wide geologic mapping and geochemical sampling as well as completing an initial 6-hole program consisting of 1,985 meters of core drilling at Radar. These holes targeted anomalous gold and mercury-bearing structures along a more than two kilometer trend coinciding with numerous historic mercury mines and prospects. Results of the exploration efforts indicated potential of bulk-tonnage high-sulfidation style gold mineralization in the northern and eastern portions of the property area where mineralized targets are hosted in favorable volcanic tuff units. Further exploration drilling is being evaluated on the mineralized potential on the Radar property in 2016.
Goose Property
In December 2014, we leased the Goose property from Nevada Eagle LLC for five years. The Goose property consists of five unpatented lode claims covering approximately 100 acres adjacent to Radar in the Walker Lane Mineral Belt. The claims comprising the Goose property cover “Newman Ridge,” a mountain located directly west of the past producing Paradise Peak mine, near the Round Mountain and Rawhide mines. We have an option to purchase the property for $175,000, subject to a 2% NSR royalty, at any time prior to the expiration of the lease term. The Goose Property is located within the area of interest for the Radar Property which is being leased from Altan Nevada Minerals Limited and is subject to an additional 3% smelter return royalty. The same bulk-tonnage high-sulfidation style gold mineralization hosted in favorable volcanic tuff units extends onto the Goose property from Radar. Field investigations to identify drill targets were conducted on the Goose property in 2015. Further investigations and exploration drilling are being evaluated for Goose in 2016.
Gold Mesa Property
In November 2015, we acquired an option to purchase a gold bearing property in Nevada, held by Silver Reserve Corporation (“SRC”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Infrastructure Materials Corp., which we refer to as “Gold Mesa.” The option gives the Company the exclusive right to purchase the property at any time over a term of 36 months. The option is exercisable for $270,000 cash and restricted common stock valued at $1,000,000 at closing. There are no work commitments associated with this option.
Gold Mesa consists of approximately 1,780 acres with 89 unpatented claims and 3 patented claims in central Nevada’s Walker Lane Mineral Belt. The property is located 17 miles south-southeast of the Radar and Goose properties. A portion of the property’s claims were mined historically on a very small scale as an underground mine in the early 1900’s and as a small open pit mine in the late 1980’s. Existing infrastructure includes nearby electricity, road access and potential water from a historic well located on the property. Gold Mesa includes the gold property historically known as the Clay Peters Project. After acquiring our option, we staked an additional 140 unpatented claims totaling approximately 2,800 acres which surrounds the original Gold Mesa property.
The property is subject to a NSR in favor of SRC on future production consisting of a 2% NSR on all claims with no existing royalties and a 1% NSR on the three patented claims. There is an existing 2% NSR on the three patented claims payable to an unrelated third party. We have additional rights to purchase back one half of each of the 2% NSR and 1% NSR from SRC subject to certain terms and restrictions and a first right of refusal to purchase the entire NSR upon a proposed disposition by SRC.
Field investigations to identify drill targets and initial exploration drilling are planned for Gold Mesa in 2016. We are currently in the process of obtaining the necessary exploration permits.
Office Facilities
We constructed an administrative office building adjacent to the mill site as part of the facilities at the Aguila Project. We also lease office space in Oaxaca City, Oaxaca consisting of approximately 3,000 square feet. The lease commenced in 2012 for ten years. In 2014, we sold the building that serves as our executive and administrative headquarters in Colorado Springs and have leased a portion back under a renewable one-year lease. We also lease an office in Denver, Colorado consisting of approximately 2,500 square feet, which we renewed in 2015 for three years.
Glossary
The following terms used in this report shall have the following meanings:
						
Andesite:
An extrusive igneous, volcanic rock, of intermediate composition, with aphanitic to porphyritic texture characteristic of subduction zones, such as the western margin of South America.
						
Concentrate:
A product from a mineral processing facility such as gravity separation or flotation in which the valuable constituents have been upgraded and unwanted gangue materials rejected as waste.
						
Doré:
Composite gold and silver bullion usually consisting of approximately 90% precious metals that will be further refined to separate pure metals.
						
Drift
A horizontal tunnel generally driven within or alongside an orebody and aligned parallel to the long dimension of the ore.
						
en echelon:
Closely-spaced, parallel or subparallel, overlapping or step-like minor structural features in rock.
						
Epithermal:
Used to describe gold deposits found on or just below the surface close to vents or volcanoes, formed at low temperature and pressure.
						
Exploration
Prospecting, sampling, mapping, diamond-drilling and other work involved in locating the presence of economic deposits and establishing their nature, shape and grade.
						
Grade
The concentration of an element of interest expressed as relative mass units (percentage, ounces per ton, grams per tonne (“g/t”), etc.).
						
Hectare:
Another metric unit of measurement, for surface area. One hectare equals 1/200th of a square kilometer, 10,000 square meters, or 2.47 acres. A hectare is approximately the size of a soccer field.
						
Mineralized Material:
Minerals or any mass of host rock in which minerals of potential commercial value occur.
						
Net Smelter Return
(“NSR”):
The net revenue that the owner of a mining property receives from the sale of the mine's metal products less transportation and refining costs. As a royalty it refers to the fraction of net smelter return that a mine operator is obligated to pay the owner of the royalty agreement.
						
Mineral Deposit:
Rocks that contain economic amounts of minerals in them and that are expected to be profitably mined.
						
Portal:
The entrance to the mine at the surface.
						
Tonne:
A metric ton. One tonne equals 1000 kg. It is equal to approximately 2,204.62 pounds.
						
Volcanogenic:
Of volcanic origin.
						
Volcanic domes:
These are mounds that form when viscous lava is erupted slowly and piles up over the vent, rather than moving away as lava flow. The sides of most domes are very steep and typically are mantled with unstable rock debris formed during or shortly after dome emplacement. Most domes are composed of silica-rich lava which may contain enough pressurized gas to cause explosions during dome extrusion.
ITEM 3.