ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
We classify our mineral properties into three categories: “Operating Properties”, “Development Properties”, and “Exploration Properties”. Operating Properties are properties on which we operate a producing mine and are what we consider a “material” property in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7. Other properties may also be material to our business.
We currently have 100% interest in six properties, including two Operating Properties and four Exploration Properties, within our Don David Gold Mine located in Oaxaca, Mexico, along the San Jose structural corridor. We formerly had an interest in additional properties located in Nevada, U.S. We no longer have any interest in such properties as they were owned by the subsidiaries that were distributed in connection with the Fortitude Spin-Off.
Proven and Probable Reserves
The term “proven (measured) reserves” means reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; grade, and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. The term “probable (indicated) reserves” means reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling, and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven (measured) reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
As of December 31, 2020, our estimate of Proven and Probable (“P&P”) reserves was:
Notes to the 2020 P&P reserves:
1.Metal prices used for P&P reserves were $1,477 per ounce of gold, $17.47 per ounce of silver, $2.83 per pound of copper, $0.92 per pound of lead and $1.17 per pound of zinc. These prices reflect the three-year trailing average prices.
2.Precious metal AuEq is 84.54:1 using gold and silver only to calculate gold equivalencies.
3.A breakeven Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) cutoff grade of $77 per tonne was used for estimations of P&P reserves at the Arista Mine. The term “cutoff grade” means the lowest NSR value considered economic to process.
4.No appreciable amounts of base metals are present in the veins identified to-date at the Mirador Mine at the Alta Gracia project. A breakeven cutoff grade of 2.33 g/t AuEq was used for proven and probable reserves at the Mirador Mine using gold and silver only to calculate gold equivalencies.
5.Mining, processing, energy, administrative and smelting/refining costs were based on 2020 actual costs for the Don David Gold Mine.
6.Arista Mine metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 76% for gold, 92% for silver, 80% for copper, 79% for lead and 80% for zinc. Mirador Mine metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 85% for gold and 72% for silver. These recoveries reflect 2020 actual average recoveries for the Aguila and Alta Gracia projects.
7.P&P reserves are diluted and factored for expected mining recovery.
8.Minimum mining width for P&P reserves is 1.5 meters for the Arista and Mirador underground mines.
9.Figures in tables are rounded to reflect estimate precision and small differences generated by rounding are not material to estimates.
For comparison, at December 31, 2019, our estimate of P&P reserves was:
Notes to the 2019 P&P reserves:
1.Metal prices used for P&P reserves were $1,306 per ounce of gold, $16.32 per ounce of silver, $2.83 per pound of copper, $0.99 per pound of lead and $1.27 per pound of zinc. These prices reflect the three-year trailing average prices.
2.Precious metal AuEq is 80.03:1 using gold and silver only to calculate gold equivalencies.
3.A breakeven Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) cutoff grade of $76 per tonne was used for estimations of P&P reserves at the Arista Mine. The term “cutoff grade” means the lowest NSR value considered economic to process.
4.No appreciable amounts of base metals are present in the veins identified to-date at the Mirador Mine at the Alta Gracia project. A breakeven cutoff grade of 2.50 g/t AuEq was used for proven and probable reserves at the Mirador Mine using gold and silver only to calculate gold equivalencies.
5.Mining, processing, energy, administrative and smelting/refining costs were based on 2019 actual costs for the Don David Gold Mine.
6.Arista Mine metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 78% for gold, 91% for silver, 78% for copper, 78% for lead and 81% for zinc. Mirador Mine metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 87% for gold and 88% for silver. These recoveries reflect 2019 actual average recoveries for the Aguila and Alta Gracia projects.
7.P&P reserves are diluted and factored for expected mining recovery.
8.Minimum mining width for P&P reserves is 1.5 meters for the Arista and Mirador underground mines.
9.Figures in tables are rounded to reflect estimate precision and small differences generated by rounding are not material to estimates.
Mineralized Material
We use the term “mineralized material” to describe mineralization in our mineral deposits that do not constitute “reserves” under U.S. reporting requirements set forth in SEC Industry Guide 7. Mineralized material does not have demonstrated economic viability. The SEC only permits issuers to report “mineralized material” in tonnage and average grade without reference to contained ounces or quantities of other metals.
As of December 31, 2020, our estimate of mineralized material was:
Notes to the 2020 mineralized material:
1.Mineralized Material is exclusive of P&P Reserves.
2.Metal prices used for mineralized material were $1,477 per ounce of gold, $17.47 per ounce of silver, $2.83 per pound of copper, $0.92 per pound of lead and $1.17 per pound of zinc. These prices reflect the three-year trailing average prices.
3.A breakeven Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) cutoff grade of $77 per tonne was used for estimations of mineralized material. The term “cutoff grade” means the lowest NSR value considered economic to process.
4.No appreciable amounts of base metals are present in the veins identified to-date at the Alta Gracia project including the Mirador Mine, and the Margaritas project. A breakeven cutoff grade of 2.33 g/t AuEq was used for mineralized material at the Alta Gracia and Margaritas projects using gold and silver only to calculate gold equivalencies at a ratio of 84.54 to 1.
5.Arista Mine metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 76% for gold, 92% for silver, 80 for copper, 79% for lead and 80% for zinc. Alta Gracia and Margaritas projects metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 85% for gold and 72% for silver. These recoveries reflect 2020 actual average recoveries for the Aguila and Alta Gracia projects.
6.Mineralized material is diluted and factored for expected mining recovery.
7.Minimum mining width for mineralized material is 1.5 meters for the Arista Mine and the Alta Gracia and Margaritas projects.
8.Figures in tables are rounded to reflect estimate precision and small differences generated by rounding are not material to estimates.
For comparison, at December 31, 2019, our estimate of mineralized material was:
Notes to the 2019 mineralized material:
1.Mineralized Material is exclusive of P&P Reserves.
2.Metal prices used for mineralized material were $1,306 per ounce of gold, $16.32 per ounce of silver, $2.83 per pound of copper, $0.99 per pound of lead and $1.27 per pound of zinc. These prices reflect the three-year trailing average prices.
3.A breakeven Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) cutoff grade of $76 per tonne was used for estimations of mineralized material. The term “cutoff grade” means the lowest NSR value considered economic to process.
4.No appreciable amounts of base metals are present in the veins identified to-date at the Alta Gracia project including the Mirador Mine, and the Margaritas project. A breakeven cutoff grade of 2.50 g/t AuEq was used for mineralized material at the Alta Gracia and Margaritas projects using gold and silver only to calculate gold equivalencies at a ratio of 80.03 to 1.
5.Arista Mine metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 78% for gold, 91% for silver, 78% for copper, 78% for lead and 81% for zinc. Alta Gracia and Margaritas projects metallurgical recovery assumptions used were 87% for gold and 80% for silver. These recoveries reflect 2019 actual average recoveries for the Aguila and Alta Gracia projects.
6.Mineralized material is diluted and factored for expected mining recovery.
7.Minimum mining width for mineralized material is 1.5 meters for the Arista Mine and the Alta Gracia and Margaritas projects.
8.Figures in tables are rounded to reflect estimate precision and small differences generated by rounding are not material to estimates.
Don David Gold Mine
All of the properties that make up our Don David Gold Mine are located in Oaxaca, Mexico in what is known as the San Jose structural corridor, which runs 70 degrees northwest. Our properties comprise 55 continuous kilometers of this structural corridor which spans three historic mining districts in Oaxaca.
We are granted concessions from the Mexican federal government to explore and mine our properties in Mexico, please see Mining Concessions and Regulations in Mexico, below. We hold certain properties as the concession holder and lease other properties from a third party. We are required to pay concession fees to the Mexican government to maintain our interest in these concessions, and we pay concession fees for all of our mineral properties, including those which are subject to the third-party lease.
The table below details information related to the mining concessions that comprise our properties in Oaxaca, Mexico:
Operating Properties
Aguila Project
Background: The Aguila project currently comprises 18 mining concessions aggregating 24,372 hectares.
In 2002, we leased the Aguila, El Aire, and La Tehuana concessions from a third party. The Aguila and El Aire concessions are part of the Aguila project and the La Tehuana concession comprises the Margaritas property. The lease agreement is subject to a 4% net smelter return royalty where production is sold in the form of gold/silver doré and 5% for production sold in concentrate form. Subject to meeting minimum exploration requirements, there is no expiration term for the lease. We may terminate it at any time upon written notice to the lessor and the lessor may terminate it if we fail to fulfill any of our obligations, which primarily consist of paying the appropriate royalty to the lessor.
In August 2003, we commenced an initial drilling and exploration program at the Aguila project. Through 2020, we have drilled a total of 1,293 core holes (both surface and underground) equaling 375,669 meters and 166 reverse circulation holes equaling 14,367 meters for a total of 1,459 holes totaling 390,036 meters.
In 2010, we acquired from a third party, at no additional cost, the El Chacal and El Pilon concessions, which are subject to a 2% royalty, but are not subject to the Aguila lease agreement. We filed for and received additional concessions from the Mexican government which are also not part of the concessions leased or acquired from the third party. While not subject to the Aguila lease, the two concessions are considered within the Aguila project. The mineral concessions making up the Aguila project are located within the San Pedro Totolapam and San Pedro Quiatoni Ejidos.
Location and Access: The Aguila project is located in the Sierra Madre del Sur Mountains of southern Mexico in the central part of the State of Oaxaca. The property is located along a major paved highway approximately 120 kilometers southeast of Oaxaca City, the state’s capital city. The property is approximately four kilometers due northwest from the village of San Jose de Gracia. We have constructed gravel and paved roads from the village to the mine and processing facility which provides adequate access to the property.
The climate of the Aguila project area is dry and warm to very warm with most rainfall occurring in June through September and annual precipitation averaging 423.7 mm. The average yearly temperature is 26.6 degrees centigrade. The area is very rocky with arid vegetation. Subsistence farming occurs and the main agricultural crop is agave cactus that is cultivated for the production of mescal.
Geology and Mineralization: The Aguila project is located in the San Jose de Gracia Mining District in Oaxaca. Multiple volcanic domes of various scales, and likely non-vented intrusive domes, dominate the district geology. These volcanogenic features are imposed on a pre-volcanic basement of sedimentary rocks. Gold and silver mineralization in this district is related to the manifestations of this classic volcanogenic system and is considered epithermal in character.
Historically, we have produced ore from two locations on the Aguila property, the Aguila open pit mine and the Arista underground mine. The Aguila open pit mineralization is considered low sulfidation, epithermal mineralization primarily of gold with some silver and no base metals. The Arista underground mine is considered intermediate epithermal mineralization of gold, silver, copper, lead, and zinc. The host rock in the Arista vein system is primarily andesite.
Facilities: We constructed a processing facility and other infrastructure at the Aguila project for approximately $35 million in 2009, and expanded the processing facility in 2012 and 2013, spending an additional $23 million. The flotation mill expansion, completed at the end of 2013, increased the number of flotation cells, added a second ball mill to allow for additional processing capacity and a Knelson gravity concentrator. In 2014 we completed a doré processing facility. The Aguila processing facility is flexible in its ability to process several types of mineralization. It has a differential flotation section capable of processing polymetallic ore and producing up to three separate concentrate products for sale. The facility also has an agitated leach circuit capable of producing gold and silver doré for sale. Depending on the specific type and characteristics of the ore, the facility has processed sulfide material in its flotation circuit at well above its nominal capacity of 1,500 tonnes of ore per day. The agitated leach circuit can process a nominal 300 tonnes per day.
We obtained water rights from the Mexican government for an amount of water that we believe is sufficient to meet our operating requirements and pump it approximately five kilometers to the site from a permitted well located near the Totolapam River.
Additional improvements at the site include electrical power lines connecting to the Mexican national power grid, installation of backup diesel generation power plants and switch gear, paving a three-kilometer section of the road from the mine to the processing facility, construction of a new surface maintenance garage and fuel station, construction of haul roads from the mine site to the processing facility, office space at the processing facility, an assay lab, an exploration office, tailings impoundment facilities and lift, a paste fill plant and other infrastructure.
Exploration Activities:
Our exploration activities during 2020 mainly focused on underground exploration drilling at the Arista and Switchback vein systems in the Arista Mine. The Switchback vein system extends for over a one kilometer strike length and remains open on both strike and vertical extent. Underground drilling during 2020 continued to explore extensions of veins currently in production in both the Switchback vein and the Arista vein systems. The Switchback drilling program continued to target these multiple high-grade parallel veins for reserve definition, expansion and mine plan optimization. Thirty-eight underground diamond drill holes totaling 9,471 meters and 7 surface diamond drill holes totaling 3,180 meters, were completed at the Aguila project during 2020. Surface geologic mapping and rock chip sampling also continued in the vicinity of the Aguila project.
Please see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information concerning our mining operations at the Alta Gracia project.
Alta Gracia Project
Background: In August 2009, we acquired claims adjacent to the Margaritas property in the Alta Gracia Mining District by filing three mining concessions known as the David 1, the David 2 and La Herradura, totaling 5,175 hectares.
As of December 31, 2016, proven and probable reserves had been established for the Mirador Underground Mine on our Alta Gracia property. In July 2017, mine development reached the economic ore zone of the Mirador vein and mining began.
Location and Access: The Alta Gracia project is approximately 20 kilometers northeast of the village of San Pedro Totalapam, in the Municipality of San Pedro Totolapam. Access to the project is by a gravel road that departs the paved highway approximately 13 kilometers east of the village of San Pedro Totalapam. The haulage distance by road from Alta Gracia to the Aguila processing facility is approximately 32 kilometers.
Geology and Mineralization: The sedimentary and volcanic units mapped at Alta Gracia are similar to those observed at the Aguila project. The district is dominated by tertiary-age rhyolite flows and tuffs which are underlain by andesite flows and tuff. Granodiorite and felsic intrusives are observed to outcrop to north and east of the Mirador mine. Known vein occurrences at Alta Gracia are mainly hosted in andesite and rhyolite. The veins mined during 2020 at Alta Gracia are considered low sulfidation epithermal mineralization with economic values only for gold and silver.
Facilities: During 2016, we received our operating permit for the Mirador Mine.
In 2017, two mine portals were developed to provide access to the Mirador vein. Mine site offices and a mobile equipment maintenance shop were established. Additionally, a diesel power generation plant, compressed air and a mine water pumping station were developed and put into service. In 2018, old workings were improved to create a second access to the vein system called Independencia. The portal for this access is located approximately 500 meters southwest of the Mirador portal. Development is now established to the mineralization delineated within the Mirador’s Independencia vein during the 2018 and 2019 drill campaigns.
Ore from the Mirador Mine, primarily silver ore, is transported by contracted haul trucks to and processed at our agitated leach plant at the Aguila processing facility, with final product being doré.
Exploration Activities: The 2020 Alta Gracia exploration program mainly included surface geological mapping along with rock chip and grid soil sampling in the historic mining areas at Alta Gracia. The new information will be used to guide future surface drilling programs.
Exploration Properties
Margaritas Property
The Margaritas property is made up of the La Tehuana concession. It comprises approximately 925 hectares located along our 55-kilometer mineralized trend and adjacent to the Aguila project.
In 2020, we continued to review results from previous surface drilling, surveying, detailed geological mapping and rock chip channel sampling for the Margaritas property. We completed the work required to maintain the claims during 2020, with work focused on geological mapping and sampling of the “Chileños” workings in the Trenes area. We expect to target the same amount of work in 2021 along with identifying opportunities to strengthen our relationship in the local communities.
Chamizo Property
In June 2011, we acquired an exploration concession from the Mexican government of approximately 17,898 hectares referred to as Chamizo. In March 2013, we acquired a property known as Cerro Colorado from Almaden Minerals, Ltd. (Almaden) consisting of approximately 1,860 hectares. The Cerro Colorado property is surrounded by our Chamizo concession and we include it as part of the Chamizo property. Any future production from the Cerro Colorado concession is subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty in favor of Almaden.
Because of the close proximity of Chamizo to Alta Gracia, exploration activity began on this property during late 2011 and to date has included geochemical sampling and drilling of eight shallow core holes for a total of 1,327 meters. We expect to target the same amount of work in 2021 along with identifying opportunities to strengthen our relationship in the local communities.
Fuego Property
In March 2013, we acquired the Fuego property from Almaden subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty. The Fuego property consists of approximately 2,554 hectares and is located south of our Alta Gracia and Chamizo properties. In 2013, Fuego was included in the property-wide airborne geophysical survey. Geologic mapping and surface sampling has been conducted on the Fuego property which allows us to meet the acceptable amount of work required to maintain the claims. We do not anticipate any significant exploration activities at El Fuego in 2021. However, we plan to conduct the work required to maintain the claims.
Rey Property
The Rey property consists of concessions on the far northwest end of our 55-kilometer mineralized corridor in the State of Oaxaca known as Rey, El Virrey, La Reyna and El Marquez. The Rey property consists of 2,335 hectares. We acquired the Rey concession from a third party, and it is subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty payable to them on a portion of the claims. We obtained the remaining concessions by staking claims and filing for concessions with the Mexican government.
The Rey property is located approximately 64.4 kilometers by road from the Aguila project. There is no plant or equipment on the Rey property. If exploration is successful, any mining would probably require an underground mine where mineralized material could be trucked to the Aguila processing facility for processing. To date, we have drilled 48 core holes for a total of 5,273 meters at the Rey property. Early in 2012, we completed a small amount of work to finish refurbishing and extending an existing shaft on the property to permit underground exploratory drilling. We ceased work at the Rey property during 2012, following a request to obtain additional approvals from local community agencies. In 2021, we plan to continue working with the local agencies to understand and address any concerns the community may have, but we have no assurance that we will be able to resume our exploration activities in the near term. Once community support is obtained, we plan to conduct follow-up drilling and exploration based on the drilling done in 2007 and 2008. Regardless of the outcome, we plan to perform enough work to maintain the claims in 2021.
Mining Concessions and Regulations in Mexico
Mineral rights in Mexico belong to the Mexican federal government and are administered pursuant to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution. All of our mining concessions are exploitation concessions, which may be granted or transferred to Mexican citizens and corporations. Our leases or concessions are held by our Mexican subsidiary DDGM. Exploitation concessions have a term of 50 years and can be renewed for another 50 years. Concessions grant us the right to explore and exploit all minerals found in the ground. Maintenance of concessions requires the semi-annual payment of mining duties (due in January and July) and the performance of assessment work, on a calendar year basis, with assessment work reports required to be filed in the month of May for the preceding calendar year. The amount of mining duties and annual assessment are set by regulation, may increase over the life of the concession and include periodic adjustments for inflation. Failure to pay the mining duties can lead to cancellation of the relevant concession.
Mexican mining law does not require payment of finder’s fees to the government, except for a discovery premium in connection with national mineral reserves, concessions and claims or allotments contracted directly from the Mexican Geological Survey. None of the claims held by DDGM are under such a discovery premium regime.
Ejido Lands and Surface Right Acquisitions in Mexico
Surface lands within DDGM are Ejido lands (agrarian cooperative lands granted by the federal government to groups of Campesinos pursuant to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution of 1917). Prior to January 1, 1994, Ejidos could not transfer Ejido lands into private ownership. Amendments to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution in 1994 now allow individual property ownership within Ejidos and allow Ejidos to enter into commercial ventures with individuals or entities, including foreign corporations. We have an agreement with the local San Pedro Totolapam Ejido allowing exploration and exploitation of mineralization at the Aguila project and some of our surrounding properties.
Mexican law recognizes mining as a land use generally superior to agriculture. However, the law also recognizes the rights of the Ejidos to compensation in the event mining activity interrupts or discontinues their use of the agricultural lands. Compensation is typically made in the form of a cash payment to the holder of the agricultural rights. The amount of such compensation is generally related to the perceived value of the agricultural rights as negotiated in the first instance between the Ejidos and the owner of the mineral rights. If the parties are unable to reach agreement on the amount of the compensation, the decision can be referred to the government.
We have established surface rights agreements with the San Pedro Totolapam Ejido and the individuals impacted by our proposed operations which allow disturbance of the surface where necessary for our exploration activities and mining operations.
Office Facilities
We constructed an administrative office building adjacent to the Aguila processing facility and a mine office adjacent to the Arista Mine portal as part of the Aguila project. We also lease approximately 3,000 square feet of office space in Oaxaca City, Oaxaca. The lease commenced in 2012 and continues for ten years. We also lease approximately 2,500 square feet of office space in Denver, Colorado, which we renewed through February 2022.
Glossary
The following terms used in this report shall have the following meanings:
Andesite:
An extrusive igneous, volcanic rock, of intermediate composition, with aphanitic to porphyritic texture characteristic of subduction zones, such as the western margin of South America.
Concentrate:
A product from a mineral processing facility such as gravity separation or flotation in which the valuable constituents have been upgraded and unwanted gangue materials rejected as waste.
Doré:
Composite gold and silver bullion usually consisting of approximately 90% precious metals that will be further refined to separate pure metals.
Drift:
A horizontal tunnel generally driven within or alongside an orebody and aligned parallel to the long dimension of the ore.
Epithermal:
Used to describe gold deposits found on or just below the surface close to vents or volcanoes, formed at low temperature and pressure.
Exploration:
Prospecting, sampling, mapping, diamond-drilling and other work involved in locating the presence of economic deposits and establishing their nature, shape and grade.
Grade:
The concentration of an element of interest expressed as relative mass units (percentage, ounces per ton, grams per tonne (“g/t”), etc.).
Hectare:
Another metric unit of measurement, for surface area. One hectare equals 1/200th of a square kilometer, 10,000 square meters, or 2.47 acres. A hectare is approximately the size of a soccer field.
Long-hole Stoping:
Mining method which uses holes drilled by a production drill to a predetermined pattern by a mining engineer. Long-hole stoping is a highly selective and productive method of mining and can cater for varying ore thicknesses and dips (0 - 90 degree). Blasted rock is designed to fall into a supported drawpoint or removed with remote control LHD (load, haul, dump machine).
Mineralized Material:
Minerals or any mass of host rock in which minerals of potential commercial value occur.
Net Smelter Return
(“NSR”):
The net revenue that the owner of a mining property receives from the sale of the mine's metal products less transportation and refining costs. As a royalty it refers to the fraction of net smelter return that a mine operator is obligated to pay the owner of the royalty agreement.
Mineral Deposit:
Rocks that contain economic amounts of minerals in them and that are expected to be profitably mined.
Tonne:
A metric ton. One tonne equals 1000 kg. It is equal to approximately 2,204.62 pounds.
Volcanogenic:
Of volcanic origin.
Volcanic domes:
These are mounds that form when viscous lava is erupted slowly and piles up over the vent, rather than moving away as lava flow. The sides of most domes are very steep and typically are mantled with unstable rock debris formed during or shortly after dome emplacement. Most domes are composed of silica-rich lava which may contain enough pressurized gas to cause explosions during dome extrusion.
ITEM 3.