ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
We classify our mineral properties into two categories: “Operating Properties” and “Exploration Properties”. Operating Properties are properties on which we operate a producing mine and are what we consider a “material” property in accordance with Guide 7. We currently have an interest in six properties, including one Operating Property and five Exploration Properties, in the southern state of Oaxaca, Mexico. All of the properties are located in what is known as the San Jose structural corridor, which runs north 70 west. Our properties comprise 48 continuous kilometers of this structural corridor, which spans three historic mining districts in Oaxaca.
The map below shows the general location of our six properties:
Operating Properties
The El Aguila Project
Background
The El Aguila Project currently comprises 10 mining concessions aggregating 20,055 hectares as described in the table below:
						
						
						
Acquisition Date
Concession Names
Hectares
Acquisition
El Aguila and El Aire
Lease, subject to royalty
El Chacal and El Pilon,
1,445
Lease, subject to royalty
El Pitayo, El Talaje, El Coyote, El Zarrito, San Luis and La Curva
17,639
Concession holder
						
						
						
Effective October 14, 2002, we leased El Aguila, El Aire and La Tehuana, from a former consultant to our company. The El Aguila and El Aire concessions are part of the El Aguila Project and the La Tehuana concession comprises the Las Margaritas property.
The El Aguila lease agreement is subject to a 4% net smelter return royalty where production is sold in the form of gold/silver dore and 5% for production sold in concentrate form. Subject to meeting minimum exploration requirements,
there is no expiration term for the lease. We may terminate it at any time upon written notice to the lessor and the lessor may terminate it if we fail to fulfill any of our obligations, which primarily consists of paying the appropriate royalty to the lessor.
In 2010, we subsequently acquired from our former consultant, at no additional cost, the El Chacal and El Pilon concessions, which are subject to a 2% royalty, but are not subject to the El Aguila lease agreement. We filed for and received additional concessions from the Mexican government which are also not part of the concessions leased or acquired from our former consultant. The mineral concessions making up the El Aguila Project are located within the San Pedro Totolapam Ejido. As described in more detail in “Mining Concessions and Regulations” below, we are required to pay concession fees to the Mexican government to maintain our interest in these concessions, including the concessions which are subject to the lease agreement with our former consultant. We paid approximately $68,000 during 2012 in maintenance fees to the Mexican government for the concessions comprising El Aguila Project.
Location and Access
The El Aguila Project is located in the Sierra Madre del Sur mountains of southern Mexico, in the central part of the State of Oaxaca. The property is located along a major paved highway approximately 120 kilometers (75 miles) southeast of Oaxaca City, the state’s capital city. At the village of San Jose de Gracia, the property is approximately four kilometers due northwest from the village. We have constructed gravel and paved road from the village to the mine and mill sites which supports adequate access to the property by small and large vehicles.
The climate of the El Aguila Project area is dry and warm to very warm with most rainfall occurring in the summer and annual precipitation averaging only 423.7 mm (17 inches). The average yearly temperature is 26.6 degrees centigrade (80° F). The area is very rocky with scarce vegetation. Subsistence farming occurs and the main agricultural crop is agave cactus that is cultivated for the production of mescal.
Geology and Mineralization
The El Aguila Project is located in the San Jose de Gracia Mining District in Oaxaca. Multiple volcanic domes of various scales, and probably non-vented intrusive domes, dominate the district geology. These volcanogenic features are imposed on a pre-volcanic basement of sedimentary rocks. Gold and silver mineralization in this district is related to the manifestations of this classic volcanogenic system and is considered epithermal in character.
There are no known reserves at El Aguila, within the definition of the SEC Guide 7, and we have proceeded to commercially mine the property absent a feasibility study that would indicate any proven or probable reserves. As discussed in more detail below, we have produced metal concentrates from two locations on the El Aguila property, the open pit mine (“El Aguila open pit”) and the underground mine at the La Arista vein system. The El Aguila open pit mineralization is considered low sulfidation, epithermal mineralization of gold and silver with no base metals. The La Arista vein system is considered intermediate epithermal mineralization of gold, silver, copper, lead, and zinc. The host rock at the La Arista vein system is primarily andesite.
Facilities
We constructed a mill facility and infrastructure at the El Aguila Project for approximately $35 million, which was completed in 2010. The mill is flexible in its ability to process several types of mineralization. It has a differential flotation section capable of processing polymetallic ores and producing up to three separate concentrate products for sale, and an agitated leach circuit capable of producing gold and silver dore for sale. Depending on the specific ore type and characteristics, the mill, as it is presently configured, can process a nominal 440,000 tonnes of ore per year. Power is provided by diesel generators at the site. We obtained water rights from the Mexican government for an amount of water we believe is sufficient to meet our operating requirements and pump it approximately five kilometers to the site from a permitted well located near the Totolapam River .
Additional improvements we have made at the site include an access road from the major highway, a water line and pumping station, haul roads from the mine site to the mill, constructing buildings adjacent to the mill facility for office space and an assay lab and a tailings impoundment and other infrastructure.
In October 2007, we acquired an additional parcel of land which is approximately five hectares in size and adjacent to the community of San Jose de Gracia. The land cost us $153,000. We have completed construction of an employee housing facility on this parcel for approximately $1.9 million that includes 10 buildings and houses approximately 50 people.
Exploration Activities
The early history of activity at the El Aguila Project property, as known by us, is prospecting and limited mining for gold and silver from the early 1900’s to the mid 1960’s. In 1998, the concessions were leased to Apex Silver Corporation of Denver, Colorado. Apex carried out an exploration program involving geologic mapping, surface sampling and an 11-hole
drilling program (1,242 meters, or 4,074 feet). The results did not meet Apex’s expectations so it cancelled its lease on the property in 2002. We leased the property from our former consultant in October 2002.
In August 2003, we commenced an initial drilling and exploration program. Through 2012, we have drilled a total of 359 core holes equaling 114,936 meters and 177 reverse circulation holes equaling 15,609 meters for a total of 536 holes totaling 130,545 meters (428,292 feet).
Exploration at the El Aguila Project includes drilling the El Aguila open pit mineralization and drilling the El Aire vein system mineralization and the discovery and subsequent detailed drilling of the La Arista vein system. The La Arista vein system is made up of two primary veins, the Baja vein and the Arista vein which are approximately 30 meters apart but also include multiple near parallel veins of varying length. The drilling of the La Arista vein system has shown mineralized material over 500 meters of strike length and 500 meters of depth. Both veins are open along strike and depth.
Surface drilling at El Aguila in 2012 was mainly a continuation of the previous year’s activities of infill and step out drilling from the mine. In 2012, 52 surface diamond drill holes totaling 31,763 meters (104,209 feet) were completed on the El Aguila Project. New significant high-grade mineralization was encountered in 17 holes with drill intercepts including 3.83 grams per tonne gold and 985 grams per tonne silver over a core length of 4.21 meters and 9.23 grams per tonne gold and 1,040 grams per tonne silver over a core length of 2.93 meters. Other surface prospecting work consisted of field geological, structural and alteration mapping, geochemical sampling and a ground geophysical survey. The ground geophysical survey was carried out over the area of the mine and the area to the west and southwest. This survey generated a number of target areas that are marked for future drilling.
In 2013, we anticipate spending approximately $7.4 million for exploration at El Aguila, consisting of approximately $5.1 million for drilling, $414,000 for geochemical surveys and $400,000 for geophysical exploration, including an airborne magnetic and radiometric survey of all of our properties which was delayed from 2012. We anticipate that all exploration activities will be funded from working capital.
Operating Activities
We declared commercial production at the El Aguila Project July 1, 2010. Mineral production during 2010 consisted of processing ore from the El Aguila open pit located approximately 0.5 kilometers from the mill. Mining of the open pit ore was essentially completed in 2010 and there remained a lower-grade stockpile of open pit ore approximating 78,000 tonnes for future processing at the end of 2012.
During 2010, we began developing an underground mine to access two veins we named the La Arista and Baja veins, which we refer to as the “La Arista vein system”. The underground mine is approximately two kilometers from the mill. We have constructed a primary decline ramp and that reached Level 14, approximately 262 meters below the portal, at December 31, 2012. We have also constructed a safety/ventilation decline ramp in conjunction with the primary decline ramp along with various drifts and stopes.
During 2012, we continued underground mining of the La Arista ore at our El Aguila Project and the main production areas were from level 8 to 10. Mine development and preparation occurred on Levels 11 to 13. Several factors contributed to the challenges we encountered with production from La Arista during 2012, including higher than planned dilution in our long-hole stopes, mining of lower grade vein margins and splays and continued development and infrastructure needs in the mine related to abatement of water inflow at lower levels along with required ventilation upgrades to reduce carbon dioxide levels associated with the increased water flows. To remediate these issues we installed additional water pumping stations and upgraded the underground mine ventilation system with several new vent fans.
We began transitioning from processing the open pit ore to the underground ore at our mill facilities in March 2011. In 2012, we processed underground ore through the mill at an average of 773 tonnes of ore per day and totaled 282,120 tonnes for the year, with an average grade of 4.3 grams per tonne gold and 355 grams per tonne silver. All of our processing is taking place using the mill’s flotation circuit, as we have not yet utilized the mill’s agitated leach circuit. We anticipate we would use the agitated leach circuit if ever we are able to mine sufficient ore from either the El Rey or Las Margaritas properties or any other property with potential oxide ore.
Please see the table titled “Production and Sales Statistics-El Aguila Project” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis for additional details concerning our mineral production statistics for 2012 and 2011.
Exploration Properties
We currently hold an interest in five additional properties in Oaxaca, which we classify as exploration properties. We do not currently consider any of these properties to be a “material” property for purposes of Guide 7 and none of these properties has any known reserves. We anticipate all exploration activities at these properties will be funded through our working capital.
The El Rey Property
The El Rey property consists of concessions in another area in the state of Oaxaca known as El Rey, El Virrey, La Reyna and El Marquez. We acquired the El Rey concession from our former consultant and it is subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty payable to him on a portion of the claims. We obtained the remaining concessions by staking claims and filing for concessions with the Mexican government. These concessions total 2,773 hectares and we are required to pay concession maintenance fees semi-annually to the Mexican government to maintain the claims. We paid $7,300 in maintenance fees for the concessions comprising El Rey property in 2012.
The El Rey property is approximately 64.4 kilometers (40 miles) from the El Aguila Project. There is no plant or equipment on the El Rey property. If exploration is successful, any mining would probably require an underground mine but any mineralized material could be trucked to the El Aguila Project mill for processing. Limited drilling at El Rey has encountered gold and silver mineralization up to 1 meter of 132.5 grams per tonne gold (4.25 ounces per tonne) and 1.5 meters of 958 grams per tonne silver. The mineralized material has been located within 100 meters from the surface. To date, we have drilled 48 core holes for a total of 5,278 meters (17,316 feet) at the El Rey property. Early in 2012, we completed a small amount of work to finish refurbishing and extending an existing shaft on the property to permit underground exploratory drilling. We ceased work at El Rey during 2012 following a request to obtain additional approvals from local community agencies. We continue to work with the local agencies and anticipate resolving the matter, but we have no assurance we will be able to resume our exploration activities in the near term. If the matter is resolved, we will conduct follow-up drilling and exploration based on the drilling done in 2008, and have budgeted $1.5 million for that purpose in that event. It is anticipated that El Rey will be included in our anticipated airborne geophysical survey.
The Las Margaritas Property
The Las Margaritas property is made up of the La Tehuana concession. We leased this concession in October 2002 from our former consultant along with two of the concessions comprising the El Aguila property and the terms of this agreement are discussed under “The El Aguila Project” above. It is comprised of approximately 925 hectares located adjacent to the El Aguila Project. We are also required to pay concession maintenance fees semi-annually to the Mexican government to maintain this claim and we paid $17,500 in maintenance fees during 2012.
In 2012, we conducted a geochemical stream sediment sampling program on Las Margaritas. A total of 300 samples were collected. Six rock samples were also collected from this property and submitted for fluid inclusion study. The result of this survey indicated a number of areas were appropriate for further investigation by diamond drilling from surface. We completed a series of access roads after consultation with the local community to help facilitate the drill program. In 2012, fifteen surface diamond drill holes totaling 5,002 meters (16,410 feet) were completed on the Las Margaritas property. High-grade mineralization was encountered with drill intercepts including 27.90 grams per tonne gold and 2,600 grams per tonne silver over a core length of 2.85 meters. In 2013, drilling will continue at Las Margaritas to test various structural and mineralized exploration targets and we have budgeted approximately $500,000 for this purpose.
The Alta Gracia Property
In August 2009, we acquired claims adjacent to the Las Margaritas property in the Alta Gracia Mining District by filing concessions known as the David 1, the David 2 and La Hurradura, totaling 5,175 hectares. We refer to this property as the Alta Gracia property. We are required to pay concession maintenance fees to the Mexican government semi-annually in order to maintain these claims and we paid $14,000 in annual fees during 2012.
During 2010, we conducted surface sampling and geologic mapping at Alta Gracia. Our rock chip samples and other geologic field work have identified several structural targets containing gold and silver mineralization, including three high-grade polymetallic veins that outcrop on the surface near some historic workings. During 2010 and 2011, we identified multiple drill targets. We also conducted a small amount of underground exploration by driving drifts and crosscuts into exposed veins. In 2012, we completed a preliminary drill program consisting of twelve surface diamond drill holes totaling 3,262 meters (10,702 feet). Drill results were encouraging and will be assessed in 2013 to help plan further drilling campaigns. In addition, detailed mapping and sampling will be required to assess the resource potential of Alta Gracia to determine if mine development is warranted. We will also conduct additional metallurgical test work to determine the amenability of the ore at our El Aguila processing facility.
We have no established timetable for our exploration activities at Alta Gracia and any additional exploration activities conducted in 2013 will be included as part of the exploration budget for El Aguila.
The El Chamizo Property
In June 2011, we staked mineral claims between the El Rey property and Alta Gracia property and acquired an exploration concession from the Mexican government of approximately 26,386 hectares (101 square miles) referred to as El
Chamizo. We are required to pay maintenance fees to the Mexican government semi-annually to maintain these claims and we paid approximately $24,000 in maintenance fees during 2012. In March 2013, we acquired a concession known as Cerro Colorado from Almaden Minerals, Ltd. consisting of approximately 1,860 hectares. The Cerro Colorado concession is surrounded by our El Chamizo concession and we include it as part of the El Chamizo property. Any future production from the Cerro Colorado concession is subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty in favor of Almaden.
Because of the close proximity of El Chamizo to Alta Gracia, exploration activity began on this property during late 2011 and to date has been limited to geochemical sampling and drilling of eight shallow core holes for a total of 1,327 meters (4,353 feet). No significant work was conducted at El Chamizo during 2012. In 2013, exploration on the property will include the property-wide airborne geophysical survey and additional geochemical sampling, which is included in the exploration budget for El Aguila.
El Fuego Property
In March 2013, we acquired two concessions from Almaden Minerals Ltd. for $100,000 cash subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty. The Cerro Colorado concession is surrounded by our El Chamizo property and included as part of this property as discussed above. The El Fuego concession consists of approximately 2,554 hectares and is located south of our Alta Gracia and El Chamizo property along the San Jose structural corridor. We will be required to pay maintenance fees to the Mexican government semi-annually to maintain this claim during 2013. We currently do not anticipate conducting exploration activities on El Fuego during 2013, however, it will be included in the property-wide airborne geophysical survey.
The Solaga Property
We leased a 100% interest in a property we refer to as the Solaga property, which is comprised of two mining concessions totaling 618 hectares known as Solaga I and Solaga II in February 2007 located approximately 120 kilometers (75 miles) northeast of the El Aguila Project. In early 2013, we terminated our interest in this lease, which was subject to a 4% net smelter return royalty on any production and required an annual minimum advance royalty payment of $10,000 if production had not commenced by 2010. We paid the minimum advance royalty to the lessor in 2012, 2011 and 2010 in accordance with the lease. We also paid $5,500 in maintenance fees for Solaga during 2012.
Mining Concessions and Regulations
Mineral rights in Mexico belong to the Mexican federal government and are administered pursuant to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution. All of our mining concessions are exploitation concessions, which may be granted or transferred to Mexican citizens and corporations. Our leases or concessions are held by our Mexican subsidiaries. Exploitation concessions have a term of 50 years and can be renewed for another 50 years. Concessions grant us the right to explore and exploit all minerals found in the ground. Maintenance of concessions requires the semi-annual payment of mining duties (due in January and July) and the performance of assessment work, on a calendar year basis, with assessment work reports required to be filed in the month of May for the preceding calendar year. The amount of mining duties and annual assessment are set by regulation and may increase over the life of the concession and include periodic adjustments for inflation. Mining concessions are registered at the Public Registry of Mining in Mexico City and in regional offices in Mexico.
Mexican mining law does not require payment of finder’s fees or royalties to the government, except for a discovery premium in connection with national mineral reserves, concessions and claims or allotments contracted directly from the Mexican Geological Survey. None of the claims held by any of our subsidiaries are under such a discovery premium regime.
Ejido Lands and Surface Right Acquisitions
Surface lands at our Oaxaca mining properties are Ejido lands (agrarian cooperative lands granted by the federal government to groups of Campesinos pursuant to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution of 1917). Prior to January 1, 1994, Ejidos could not transfer Ejido lands into private ownership. Amendments to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution in 1994 now allow individual property ownership within Ejidos and allow Ejidos to enter into commercial ventures with individuals or entities, including foreign corporations. We have an agreement with the local San Pedro Totolapam Ejido allowing exploration and exploitation of mineralization at the El Aguila Project and our surrounding properties.
Mexican law recognizes mining as a land use generally superior to agricultural. However, the law also recognizes the rights of the Ejidos to compensation in the event mining activity interrupts or discontinues their use of the agricultural lands. Compensation is typically made in the form of a cash payment to the holder of the agricultural rights. The amount of such compensation is generally related to the perceived value of the agricultural rights as negotiated in the first instance between the Ejidos and the owner of the mineral rights. If the parties are unable to reach agreement on the amount of the compensation, the decision will be referred to the government.
We have established surface rights agreements with the San Pedro Totolapam Ejido and the individuals impacted by our proposed operations which allow disturbance of the surface where necessary for our exploration activities and mining operations.
Office Facilities
We maintain offices in Oaxaca and in Colorado. We constructed an administrative office building adjacent to the mill site as part of the facilities at the El Aguila Project. We also lease office space in Oaxaca City, Oaxaca consisting of approximately 3,000 square feet. The lease commenced in 2012 for ten years at approximately $6,000 per month. In 2010, we purchased a building in Colorado Springs, Colorado, containing approximately 4,500 square feet which serves as our executive and administrative headquarters. We also established a small satellite office in Denver, Colorado in 2012 consisting of approximately 2,500 square feet, which we leased for three years at approximately $5,000 per month.
Glossary
The following terms used in this report shall have the following meanings:
						
						
Adit:
A more or less horizontal drive (walk-in mine) into a hill that is usually driven for the purpose of intersecting or mining an ore body. An adit may also be driven into a hill to intersect or connect a shaft for the purpose of dewatering. Adits were commonly driven on a slight incline to enable loaded mine trucks to have the advantage of a downhill run out, while the empty (lighter) truck was pushed uphill back into the hill. The incline also allows water to drain out of the adit. An adit only becomes a tunnel if it comes out again on the hill somewhere, like a train tunnel.
						
Andesite:
An extrusive igneous, volcanic rock, of intermediate composition, with aphanitic to porphyritic texture characteristic of subduction zones, such as the western margin of South America. Along with basalts they are a major component of the martian crust.
						
Doré:
Unrefined gold and silver bars usually containing more than 90% precious metal.
						
Epithermal:
Used to describe gold deposits found on or just below the surface close to vents or volcanoes, formed at low temperature and pressure.
						
Gram:
A metric unit of weight and mass, equal to 1/1000th of a kilogram. One gram equals .035 ounces. One ounce equals 31.103 grams.
						
Hectare:
Another metric unit of measurement, for surface area. One hectare equals 1/200th of a square kilometer, 10,000 square meters, or 2.47 acres. A hectare is approximately the size of a soccer field.
						
Kilometer:
Another metric unit of measurement, for distance. The prefix “kilo” means 1000, so one kilometer equals 1,000 meters, one kilometer equals 3,280.84 feet, which equals 1,093.6 yards, which equals 0.6214 miles.
						
Manto:
A mineralogy term meaning a layer or stratum.
						
Mineralized Material:
Minerals or any mass of host rock in which minerals of potential commercial value occur.
						
Net Smelter Return Royalty:
A share of the net revenue generated from the sale of metal produced by the mine.
						
Ore or Ore Deposit:
Rocks that contain economic amounts of minerals in them and that are expected to be profitably mined.
						
Portal:
The entrance to the mine at the surface.
						
Silicified:
Is combined or impregnated with silicon or silica.
						
Tonne:
A metric ton. One tonne equals 1000 kg. It is approximately equal to 2,204.62 pounds.
						
Volcanogenic:
Of volcanic origin.
						
Volcanic domes:
These are mounds that form when viscous lava is erupted slowly and piles up over the vent, rather than moving away as lava flow. The sides of most domes are very steep and typically are mantled with unstable rock debris formed during or shortly after dome emplacement. Most domes are composed of silica-rich lava which may contain enough pressurized gas to cause explosions during dome extrusion.
ITEM 3.