ITEM 2.PROPERTIES
We classify our mineral properties into two categories: “Operating Properties” and “Exploration Properties.” Operating Properties are properties on which we operate a producing mine and are what we consider a “material” property in accordance with Guide 7.
We currently have an interest in eight properties. Six of our properties, including one Operating Property and five Exploration Properties, are in the southern state of Oaxaca, Mexico. During 2014, we leased two properties in Nevada which are considered Exploration Properties.
Oaxaca Mining Unit
All of the properties that make up our Oaxaca Mining Unit are located in what is known as the San Jose structural corridor, which runs north 70 degrees west. Our properties comprise 55 continuous kilometers of this structural corridor which spans three historic mining districts in Oaxaca. The map below shows the general location of our six Oaxaca properties:
We are granted concessions from the Mexican federal government to explore and mine our properties in Mexico, see Mining Concessions and Regulations in Mexico. Certain properties are held by us as the concession holder and other properties that we lease from a third party. We are required to pay concession fees to the Mexican government to maintain our interest in these concessions, and we pay concession fees for all of our mineral properties, including those which are subject to the third-party lease. The table below details information related to the mining concessions that comprise our six properties in Oaxaca.
* One hectare is equal to 2.4711 acres. The 73,748 hectares in which we hold an interest is equal to approximately 285 square miles.
Operating Properties
The El Aguila Project
Background
The El Aguila Project currently comprises 17 mining concessions aggregating 30,074 hectares as described in the table above.
In 2002, we leased the El Aguila, El Aire and La Tehuana concessions from a third party. The El Aguila and El Aire concessions are part of the El Aguila Project and the La Tehuana concession comprises the Las Margaritas property. The El Aguila lease agreement is subject to a 4% net smelter return royalty where production is sold in the form of gold/silver doré and 5% for production sold in concentrate form. Subject to meeting minimum exploration requirements, there is no expiration term for the lease. We may terminate it at any time upon written notice to the lessor and the lessor may terminate it if we fail to fulfill any of our obligations, which primarily consists of paying the appropriate royalty to the lessor.
In 2010, we acquired from a third party, at no additional cost, the El Chacal and El Pilon concessions, which are subject to a 2% royalty, but are not subject to the El Aguila lease agreement. We filed for and received additional concessions from the Mexican government which are also not part of the concessions leased or acquired from the third party. The mineral concessions making up the El Aguila Project are located within the San Pedro Totolapam Ejido.
Location and Access
The El Aguila Project is located in the Sierra Madre del Sur Mountains of southern Mexico in the central part of the State of Oaxaca. The property is located along a major paved highway approximately 120 kilometers southeast of Oaxaca City, the state’s capital city. The property is approximately four kilometers due northwest from the village of San Jose de Gracia. We have constructed gravel and paved roads from the village to the mine and mill sites which supports adequate access to the property.
The climate of the El Aguila Project area is dry and warm to very warm with most rainfall occurring in the summer and annual precipitation averaging 423.7 mm. The average yearly temperature is 26.6 degrees centigrade. The area is very rocky with arid vegetation. Subsistence farming occurs and the main agricultural crop is agave cactus that is cultivated for the production of mescal.
Geology and Mineralization
The El Aguila Project is located in the San Jose de Gracia Mining District in Oaxaca. Multiple volcanic domes of various scales, and probably non-vented intrusive domes, dominate the district geology. These volcanogenic features are imposed on a pre-volcanic basement of sedimentary rocks. Gold and silver mineralization in this district is related to the manifestations of this classic volcanogenic system and is considered epithermal in character.
Historically, we have produced ore from two locations on the El Aguila property, the open pit mine (“El Aguila open pit”) and the underground mine at the La Arista vein system. The El Aguila open pit mineralization is considered low sulfidation, epithermal mineralization primarily of gold with some silver and no base metals. The La Arista vein system is considered intermediate epithermal mineralization of gold, silver, copper, lead, and zinc. The host rock at the La Arista vein system is primarily andesite.
Facilities
We constructed a mill facility and infrastructure at the El Aguila Project for approximately $35 million in 2009, and expanded the mill facility in 2012 and 2013, by $23 million. The flotation mill expansion, completed at the end of 2013, increased the number of flotation cells and added a second ball mill to allow for additional processing capacity. The mill is flexible in its ability to process several types of mineralization. It has a differential flotation section capable of processing polymetallic mineralized material and producing up to three separate concentrate products for sale. The mill also has an agitated leach circuit capable of producing gold and silver doré for sale. Depending on the specific type and characteristics of the mineralized material the mill can process sulfide material in its flotation circuit at a nominal 1,500 tonnes of mineralized material per day. The agitated leach circuit can process a nominal 300 tonnes per day.
Our optimization of the mill expansion, which was completed in the fourth quarter of 2013, resulted in our ability to begin producing a higher grade gold and silver concentrate in the first quarter of 2014, by utilizing a Knelson gravity concentrator at our mill facilities. With the goal of reducing refining costs, royalties and treatment costs, we completed the commissioning phase of the doré processing facility and achieved commercial production in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Power is provided by diesel generators at the site. We obtained water rights from the Mexican government for an amount of water that we believe is sufficient to meet our operating requirements and pump it approximately five kilometers to the site from a permitted well located near the Totolapam River.
Additional improvements at the site include a second diesel generation power plant and switch gear, paving a 3 kilometer section of the road from the mine to the mill, construction of a new surface maintenance garage and fuel station, haul roads from the mine site to the mill, mill facility office space, an assay lab, an exploration office, a tailings impoundment facility and other infrastructure.
Exploration Activities
The early history of activity at the El Aguila Project, as known by us, is prospecting and limited mining for gold and silver from the early 1900’s to the mid 1960’s. In 1998, the concessions were leased to Apex Silver Mines Corporation of Denver, Colorado. Apex carried out an exploration program involving geologic mapping, surface sampling and an 11-hole drilling program (1,242 meters). The results did not meet Apex’s expectations so it cancelled its lease on the property in 2002. We leased the property from a third party in October 2002.
In August 2003, we commenced an initial drilling and exploration program. Through 2014, we have drilled a total of 764 core holes (both surface and underground) equaling 220,829 meters and 166 reverse circulation holes equaling 14,367 meters for a total of 930 holes totaling 235,196 meters.
Exploration at the El Aguila Project includes drilling the El Aguila open pit mineralization and the discovery and subsequent detailed drilling of the La Arista deposit’s vein system. The La Arista vein system is made up of multiple en echelon parallel veins with the two primary veins, the Baja vein and the Arista vein which are approximately 30 meters apart. Currently more than 15 veins have been identified with indications of at least 5 more. The drilling of the La Arista vein system has shown mineralized material over 1,000 meters of strike length and more than 500 meters of depth with veins open along strike and depth.
Drilling at El Aguila in 2014, was mainly a continuation of the previous year’s activities of infill and step out drilling from the La Arista mine. In 2014, 136 diamond drill holes (both surface and underground) totaling 43,137 meters were completed on the El Aguila Project.
In 2014, exploratory drilling from the La Arista deposit also continued to expand the systems high-grade mineralization at the new Switchback discovery, located 500 meters to the northeast of the La Arista deposit. Switchback has been drilled 450 meters along strike by 450 meters at depth, containing significant gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc mineralization. Drilling highlights include a 19.3 meter wide vein zone averaging 2.56 g/t gold, 129 g/t silver, 0.62% copper, 1.28% lead and 3.84% zinc which included 1.71 meters of 13.45 g/t gold, 860 g/t silver, 1.81% copper, 3.52% lead and 7.18% zinc.
Operating Activities
We commenced mining and milling operations at the El Aguila Project’s La Arista Mine on July 1, 2010. Mineral production during 2010 consisted of processing mineralized material from the El Aguila open pit located approximately 0.5 kilometers from the mill. Mining of the open pit was essentially completed in 2010. Approximately one-half of the open pit material was processed and one-half remains in long-term stockpiles.
During 2010, we began developing an underground mine to access the La Arista deposit’s vein system. The underground mine is approximately two kilometers from the mill. As of December 31, 2014, the construction of our primary decline ramp has now reached Level 19 which is approximately 360 vertical meters below the mine portal.
During 2014, we continued underground mining of the La Arista mineralized material at our El Aguila Project. In 2014, a record 9,654 linear meters of tunnel construction was completed in the mine. This included 4,576 linear meters of capital mine infrastructure construction and a further 695 meters of vertical rise development. Mine infrastructure improvements include a third surface exhaust fan installation and an underground water pumping station.
In 2014, we processed underground ore through the mill at an average of 1,111 tonnes per day and totaled 375,623 tonnes for the year, with an average grade of 3.21 grams per tonne gold and 296 grams per tonne silver. All of our processing is taking place using the mill’s flotation circuit processing sulfide ore from the La Arista underground mine, as we have not yet utilized the mill’s agitated leach circuit. We anticipate that we would use the agitated leach circuit if ever we are able to mine sufficient oxide material from one of our properties.
Please see the table titled Production and Sales Statistics-El Aguila Project in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis for additional details concerning our mineral production statistics for 2014 and 2013.
Exploration Properties
We currently hold an interest in five additional properties in our Oaxaca Mining Unit located in Oaxaca, Mexico and two properties in Nevada, United States of America, which we classify as exploration properties. We do not currently consider any of these properties to be a “material” property for purposes of Guide 7 and none of these properties has any known reserves. We anticipate that all exploration activities at these properties will be funded through our working capital.
In 2015, we anticipate spending approximately $10.4 million for exploration which includes approximately $2.0 million for exploration ramps to the Switchback.
Oaxaca Mining Unit
The Las Margaritas Property
The Las Margaritas property is made up of the La Tehuana concession. We leased this concession in October 2002, from a third party along with two of the concessions comprising the El Aguila property and the terms of this agreement are discussed under “The El Aguila Project” above. It is comprised of approximately 925 hectares located along our 55 kilometer mineralized trend and adjacent to the El Aguila Project.
To date, we have drilled 24 core holes for a total of 8,035 meters at the Las Margaritas property. In 2014, a soil and rock geochemical program was conducted at the Las Margaritas property. This program was a follow-up of the stream sediment geochemical program conducted in 2010 and 2012. A total of 1,494 soil and 66 rock samples were collected on lines oriented from southwest to northeast across the projection of known regional structures. The soil data showed a series of west-northwest and northwest trending trends visible in the epithermal pathfinder suite of metals (gold, silver, arsenic, antimony, mercury and thallium). These linear patterns spatially correlate with known historical mining in the Las Margaritas district. The linear patterns also extend beyond and between the known workings and establish additional trends for prospecting along mapped structural orientations.
The Alta Gracia Property
In August 2009, we acquired claims adjacent to the Las Margaritas property in the Alta Gracia Mining District by filing concessions known as the David 1, the David 2 and La Herradura, totaling 5,175 hectares.
Follow-up surface drilling was conducted at Alta Gracia during 2014, with 39 diamond drill holes totaling 7,589 meters completed. The 2014 drill campaign initially focused near the historic El Mirador underground mine, testing the Mirador vein. This drilling encountered significant intercepts including 5.06 meters grading 1.53 g/t gold and 1,383 g/t silver and 8.58 meters grading 1.34 g/t and 700 g/t silver for the El Mirador vein. The San Juan Vein, located approximately 500 meters southwest of the historic El Mirador underground mine, was also tested and returned 1.19 meters grading 3.16 g/t gold and 2,232 g/t silver. We also drilled the El Huaje vein, a parallel vein structure located approximately 200 meters southeast of the El Mirador vein, which returned 2.23 meters of 0.85 g/t gold, 710 g/t silver, 1.03% lead and 5.14% zinc. The El Mirador and San Juan vein gold and silver mineralization discovered to date does not show any appreciable base metals, so this precious metal mineralization could potentially be trucked to and processed through the El Aguila Mill’s agitated leach circuit. In 2015, mineable resources are planned to be estimated and metallurgical test work done to determine if mining and processing of Alta Gracia mineralized material is warranted at our El Aguila processing facility.
The El Chamizo Property
In June 2011, we staked mineral claims between the El Rey property and Alta Gracia property along trend and acquired an exploration concession from the Mexican government of approximately 26,386 hectares referred to as El Chamizo. In March 2013, we acquired a property known as Cerro Colorado (comprised of the San Pedro Fracc. 2 concession) from Almaden Minerals, Ltd. consisting of approximately 1,860 hectares. The Cerro Colorado property is surrounded by our El Chamizo concession and we include it as part of the El Chamizo property. Any future production from the Cerro Colorado concession is subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty in favor of Almaden.
Because of the close proximity of El Chamizo to Alta Gracia, exploration activity began on this property during late 2011, and to date has been limited to geochemical sampling and drilling of eight shallow core holes for a total of 1,327 meters. No significant work was conducted at El Chamizo during 2014. In 2015, exploration on the property is expected to include additional surface geological mapping and geochemical sampling of several new prospective targets identified on the El Chamizo property.
The El Fuego Property
In March 2013, we acquired the El Fuego property (comprised of the San Pedro Fracc. 1 concession) from Almaden Minerals Ltd. subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty. The El Fuego property consists of approximately 2,554 hectares and is located south of our Alta Gracia and El Chamizo properties. In 2013, El Fuego was included in the property-wide airborne geophysical survey. Geologic mapping and surface sampling were conducted on the El Fuego property during 2013 and 2014 to allow us to meet the acceptable minimum amount of work required to maintain the claims.
The El Rey Property
The El Rey property consists of concessions on the far northwest end of our 55 kilometer mineralized corridor in the State of Oaxaca known as El Rey, El Virrey, La Reyna and El Marquez. We acquired the El Rey concession from a third party and it is subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty payable to them on a portion of the claims. We obtained the remaining concessions by staking claims and filing for concessions with the Mexican government.
The El Rey property is approximately 64.4 kilometers by road from the El Aguila Project. There is no plant or equipment on the El Rey property. If exploration is successful, any mining would probably require an underground mine where mineralized material could be trucked to the El Aguila mill located on the El Aguila Project for processing. Limited drilling at El Rey has encountered gold and silver mineralization up to one meter of 132.5 g/t gold and 1.5 meters of 958 g/t silver. The mineralized material has been located within 100 meters from the surface. To date, we have drilled 48 core holes for a total of 5,278 meters at the El Rey property. Early in 2012, we completed a small amount of work to finish refurbishing and extending an existing shaft on the property to permit underground exploratory drilling. We ceased work at El Rey during 2012, following a request to obtain additional approvals from local community agencies. We continue to work with the local agencies and anticipate resolving the matter, but we have no assurance that we will be able to resume our exploration activities in the near term. If the matter is resolved, we will conduct follow-up drilling and exploration based on the drilling done in 2008. We do not anticipate any significant exploration activities at El Rey in 2015. However, we plan to conduct the acceptable minimum amount of work required to maintain the claims.
Other Properties
Other properties include the 4,000-hectare Lachiguiri exploration concession granted from the Mexican government in 2014. The Lachiguiri claim, located 55 kilometers east of El Aguila, was staked to cover zones of interesting gold-silver-base metal mineralization occurring in limestone conglomerates affected by intense fracturing, oxidation and some silicified zones. Discussions with the local community for surface access and preliminary field investigations are planned for Lachiguiri in 2015.
During 2015, we also plan to acquire additional properties and conduct exploration programs including drilling along the 55 kilometer mineralized trend and geologic structural corridor which encompasses our other properties in Mexico.
Mining Concessions and Regulations in Mexico
Mineral rights in Mexico belong to the Mexican federal government and are administered pursuant to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution. All of our mining concessions are exploitation concessions, which may be granted or transferred to Mexican citizens and corporations. Our leases or concessions are held by our Mexican subsidiary. Exploitation concessions have a term of 50 years and can be renewed for another 50 years. Concessions grant us the right to explore and exploit all minerals found in the ground. Maintenance of concessions requires the semi-annual payment of mining duties (due in January and July) and the performance of assessment work, on a calendar year basis, with assessment work reports required to be filed in the month of May for the preceding calendar year. The amount of mining duties and annual assessment are set by regulation and may increase over the life of the concession and include periodic adjustments for inflation. Mining concessions are registered at the Public Registry of Mining in Mexico City and in regional offices in Mexico.
Mexican mining law does not require payment of finder’s fees to the government, except for a discovery premium in connection with national mineral reserves, concessions and claims or allotments contracted directly from the Mexican Geological Survey. None of the claims held by any of our subsidiaries are under such a discovery premium regime.
Ejido Lands and Surface Right Acquisitions in Mexico
Surface lands at our Oaxaca mining properties are Ejido lands (agrarian cooperative lands granted by the federal government to groups of Campesinos pursuant to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution of 1917). Prior to January 1, 1994, Ejidos could not transfer Ejido lands into private ownership. Amendments to Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution in 1994 now allow individual property ownership within Ejidos and allow Ejidos to enter into commercial ventures with individuals or entities, including foreign corporations. We have an agreement with the local San Pedro Totolapam Ejido allowing exploration and exploitation of mineralization at the El Aguila Project and some of our surrounding properties.
Mexican law recognizes mining as a land use generally superior to agricultural. However, the law also recognizes the rights of the Ejidos to compensation in the event mining activity interrupts or discontinues their use of the agricultural lands. Compensation is typically made in the form of a cash payment to the holder of the agricultural rights. The amount of such compensation is generally related to the perceived value of the agricultural rights as negotiated in the first instance between the Ejidos and the owner of the mineral rights. If the parties are unable to reach agreement on the amount of the compensation, the decision will be referred to the government.
We have established surface rights agreements with the San Pedro Totolapam Ejido and the individuals impacted by our proposed operations which allow disturbance of the surface where necessary for our exploration activities and mining operations.
Nevada Mining Unit
In 2014, we acquired an interest in two properties in the State of Nevada, United States of America, both of which we classify as Exploration Properties. We do not currently consider any of these properties to be a material property for purposes of Guide 7 and neither of these properties has any known reserves. We anticipate that all exploration activities at these properties will be funded through our working capital.
The Radar Property
In September 2014, we leased the Radar property from Altan Nevada Minerals Limited for ten years. The Radar property covers an area of approximately 3,550 acres and is made up of 178 unpatented lode claims located in the area known as the Walker Lane Mineral Belt in central Nevada. Radar is immediately adjacent to the former gold-silver-mercury past producing Paradise Peak Mine, near the Round Mountain and Rawhide mines. Pursuant to the lease, we will be required to make work expenditures of up to $250,000 annually to maintain our interest in the property and at our option we may purchase the property for $1.5 million, subject to a 3% net smelter return royalty, at any time prior to the expiration of the lease term.
The Goose Property
In December 2014, we leased the Goose property from Nevada Eagle LLC for five years. The Goose property consists of five unpatented lode claims covering approximately 100 acres adjacent to Radar in the Walker Lane Mineral Belt. The claims comprising the Goose property cover “Newman Ridge,” a mountain located directly west of the past producing Paradise Peak mine, near the Round Mountain and Rawhide mines. We have an option to purchase the property for $175,000, subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty, at any time prior to the expiration of the lease term. The Goose Property is located within the area of interest for the Radar Property which is being leased from Altan Nevada Minerals Limited and falls under an additional 3% smelter return royalty.
Office Facilities
We maintain offices in Oaxaca and in Colorado. We constructed an administrative office building adjacent to the mill site as part of the facilities at the El Aguila Project. We also lease office space in Oaxaca City, Oaxaca consisting of approximately 3,000 square feet. The lease commenced in 2012 for ten years. In 2014, we sold the building that serves as our executive and administrative headquarters in Colorado Springs and have leased a portion back under a renewable one-year lease. We also established a satellite office in Denver, Colorado consisting of approximately 2,500 square feet, the lease commenced in 2012 for three years.
Glossary
The following terms used in this report shall have the following meanings:
						
						
Andesite:
An extrusive igneous, volcanic rock, of intermediate composition, with aphanitic to porphyritic texture characteristic of subduction zones, such as the western margin of South America.
Doré:
Unrefined gold and silver bars usually containing more than 90% precious metal.
en echelon:
						
						
						
						
Closely-spaced, parallel or subparallel, overlapping or step-like minor structural features in rock.
						
Epithermal:
Used to describe gold deposits found on or just below the surface close to vents or volcanoes, formed at low temperature and pressure.
g/t:
Grams per metric ton.
Hectare:
Another metric unit of measurement, for surface area. One hectare equals 1/200th of a square kilometer, 10,000 square meters, or 2.47 acres. A hectare is approximately the size of a soccer field.
Mineralized Material:
Minerals or any mass of host rock in which minerals of potential commercial value occur.
Net Smelter Return Royalty:
A share of the net revenue generated from the sale of metal produced by the mine, “NSR”.
Mineral Deposit:
Rocks that contain economic amounts of minerals in them and that are expected to be profitably mined.
Portal:
The entrance to the mine at the surface.
Tonne:
A metric ton. One tonne equals 1000 kg. It is approximately equal to 2,204.62 pounds.
Volcanogenic:
Of volcanic origin.
Volcanic domes:
These are mounds that form when viscous lava is erupted slowly and piles up over the vent, rather than moving away as lava flow. The sides of most domes are very steep and typically are mantled with unstable rock debris formed during or shortly after dome emplacement. Most domes are composed of silica-rich lava which may contain enough pressurized gas to cause explosions during dome extrusion.
ITEM 3.