ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
Overview
We are an exploration stage company engaged in the acquisition, exploration and, if warranted, development of uranium properties. “Uranium” used in this context refers to U3O8. U3O8, also called yellowcake, is triuranium octoxide produced from uranium ore and is the most actively traded uranium-related commodity.
We are principally focused on the exploration of our properties in the Powder River Basin area of Wyoming. We are exploring these properties with the objective of assessing their viability for commercial ISR uranium mining. ISR is a low cost mining process that uses a “leaching solution” to extract uranium from underground ore bodies.
Concurrent with our exploration activities, we continue to progress permitting activities associated with our plan to construct a commercial ISR project, which we refer to as our Nichols Ranch ISR Project. We have applied for mine operating permits on two of our properties in the Powder River Basin area of Wyoming, known as the Nichols Ranch and Hank properties, that we feel have the potential, based on data in our possession, of being developed into commercial ISR uranium mines. These permits, if received, should allow us to produce uranium yellowcake concentrate, which can be sold directly to utilities for fuel used in nuclear electrical generating facilities. Because of the long lead times for environmental permitting of mining operations in North America, we filed applications to the State of Wyoming (WDEQ) and the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) for permits for the Nichols Ranch Uranium ISR Project in December 2007. The status of our permitting activities is described more fully below under the heading “Nichols Ranch ISR Project”.
Our Powder River Basin properties include:
our 100% owned properties, which totaled 29,251 acres as of December 31, 2009;
properties of Arkose Mining Venture, in which we hold an 81% interest, which totaled 88,367 acres as of December 31, 2009; and
additional properties that we have acquired in the Powder River Basin area totaling 1,694 acres as of December 31, 2009.
We completed a substantial exploration program on our Powder River Basin properties in 2009. A total of 565 drill holes and 15 wells were completed in 2009, representing approximately 377,642 feet of drilling at an average depth of 668 feet per hole. Uranium trend and delineation holes were drilled utilizing three drill rigs and two electric log probing units.
The objective of the 2009 drilling program was to find previously unknown or little-known uranium mineralization trends and to delineate known trends, which would provide data for permitting and eventual production operations in favorably identified areas. During the 2009 drilling program, approximately 11.5 miles of uranium roll front trends were investigated. Approximately 3 miles of the 11.5 miles of trends had favorable uranium mineralization. Uranium mineralization ranged from less than 0.01% eU3O8 to 1.18% eU3O8. Approximately 36% of the 565 holes drilled during 2009 met or exceeded our minimum cut-off grade of 0.03% eU3O8 (eU3O8 is equivalent natural uranium, U3O8, as determined from down-hole radiometric probing rather than by chemical analysis).
Our 2009 drilling program lead to the preparation and filing of three National Instrument 43-101 Technical Reports, which are described in more detail below under “2009 Drilling Program”.
In anticipation of receiving all the approvals necessary to mine in 2010, we have commenced a marketing program for conditional sales of uranium from our Nichols Ranch ISR Project. In July of 2009, we entered into a sales agreement with Exelon Generation Company, LLC for the sale of uranium over a five-year period. In August of 2009 we entered into a second contract for the sale of uranium to another U.S. utility, also over a five-year period.
Our plan of operations during 2010 is to:
continue with our exploration of our Powder River Basin Properties as detailed below under “2010 Exploration Program”;
continue with our permitting, mine planning and design efforts in connection with the Nichols Ranch ISR Project, as detailed below under “Nichols Ranch ISR Project”; and
once permitting has been achieved, to commence construction of our Nichols Ranch ISR Project.
We have sufficient financing to continue our exploration and permitting activities and design and early stage construction activities over the next twelve months. However, we will require additional financing in order to complete construction of our Nichols Ranch ISR Project. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary financing to complete construction or carry out mining activities, if mining is warranted.
All of our projects are at the exploration stage and there can be no assurance that a commercially viable mineral deposit, or reserve, exists on any of our properties until appropriate exploratory work is done and a comprehensive evaluation based on such work concludes legal and economic feasibility. Further exploration will be required before a final evaluation as to the economic, technical and legal feasibility of mining of any of our properties is determined. There is no assurance that further exploration will result in a final evaluation that a commercially viable mineral deposit exists on any of our mineral properties.
Operations
Our exploration program in the Wyoming Powder River Basin is directed by Mr. Kurtis Brown, Senior Vice-President Exploration and is supervised by Mr. George Hartman, our Executive Vice-President and Chief Operating Officer. We engage contractors to carry out our exploration programs under Mr. Brown’s supervision. Contractors that we plan to engage include project geologists, drilling companies and geophysical logging companies, each according to the specific exploration program on each property.
Our management will make determinations as to whether to proceed with the additional exploration of our Wyoming Powder River Basin mineral properties based on the results of the preliminary exploration that we undertake. In completing these determinations, we will make an assessment as to whether the results of the exploration are sufficiently positive for us to proceed with more advanced exploration.
Wyoming Properties
We have several properties in two distinct geographical areas known as the Great Divide and Powder River Basins of Wyoming as shown in the map below:
Uranerz Energy Corporation - Wyoming Property Locations - March
Source: Uranerz Energy Corporation 2010
Legend:
A - Powder River Basin Properties
B - Great Divide Basin Properties
We plan to maintain, explore and, if warranted, develop our properties in the Powder River Basin area of Wyoming.
At this time we do not have immediate plans for further exploration or development activities on our Great Divide Basin properties, which are not considered material at present.
Powder River Basin Properties
As of December 31, 2009, our Powder River Basin properties include both our 100% owned properties and those properties included within the Arkose Mining Venture. These principal properties comprise in total approximately 117,618 acres and consist of a combination of federal mining claims, state mineral leases and private fee mineral leases. We have also acquired additional properties in the Powder River Basin area which total approximately 1,694 acres and are discussed below under “Other Powder River Basin Projects”. A map showing the location of our 100% owned Powder River Basin and Arkose Mining Venture properties is provided below:
Uranerz Energy Corporation - Powder River Basin - March
Source: Uranerz Energy Corporation 2010
An additional map showing the location of our properties within the general Powder Basin property area and our key property units is presented below:
Uranerz Energy Corporation - Powder River Basin - Property Units - March 2010
Source: Uranerz Energy Corporation 2010
Ownership Interests
Our ownership interests in the properties within the Powder River Basin are summarized as follows:
100% Owned Properties
Our 100% owned properties are comprised of unpatented lode mining claims, state leases and fee (private) mineral leases, as summarized as follows:
(1) Subject to royalties, as discussed further below.
These 100% owned properties in the Powder River Basin include the following core property units:
We continue to look for more prospective lands in the Powder River Basin and as a result may locate, purchase or lease additional unpatented lode mining claims; and/or purchase or lease additional fee mineral (private) lands during the next twelve months, however there is no assurance any additional properties will be acquired.
Arkose Mining Venture
The Arkose Mining Venture properties are comprised of unpatented mineral lode claims, state leases and fee (private) mineral leases, as summarized as follows:
(1) Subject to royalties, as discussed further below.
We completed the acquisition of an undivided 81% interest in the Arkose Mining Venture mineral properties on January 15, 2008. This acquisition was completed pursuant to a purchase and sale agreement with mining venture previously announced on September 19, 2007 between Uranerz, and NAMMCO, Steven C. Kirkwood, Robert W. Kirkwood and Stephen L. Payne (collectively, the “NAMMCO Sellers”). The total purchase price that we paid to acquire this 81% interest in the Arkose Mining Venture included cash of $5,757,000 and 5,750,000 shares of our common stock issued to the NAMMCO Sellers. The NAMMCO Sellers entered into a voting agreement with us effective January 15, 2008 pursuant to which each of such sellers granted to our management or our appointed agent the right to vote fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding and currently held shares issued as consideration for the acquisition, whether held directly or indirectly by such sellers, for a period of three (3) years following the date of the issuance.
In connection with our acquisition of an 81% interest in the Arkose Mining Venture, we entered into a venture agreement dated as of January 15, 2008 (the “Venture Agreement”) with United Nuclear, LLC (“United Nuclear”), a limited liability company wholly owned by the NAMMCO Sellers and their designee under the purchase and sale agreement. Under the Venture Agreement, we agreed that United Nuclear will hold (and contribute to) its nineteen percent (19%) working interest in the Arkose Mining Venture, and we will operate and be the manager of the Arkose Mining Venture under the name “Arkose Mining Venture”. We and United Nuclear agreed to contribute funds to programs and budgets approved under the Arkose Mining Venture in accordance with our respective interests in the Venture.
The Venture Agreement provides that we, as manager, will have management and control over operations carried out by the Venture. We are obligated to present proposed programs and budgets to the management committee of the Venture on an annual basis. The proposed programs and budgets may include exploration programs, pre-feasibility studies, feasibility studies, development, mining, and expansion or modification of operation plans. Proposed programs and budgets are reviewed by the management committee appointed under the Venture which includes at least two members from each company appointed by Uranerz and United Nuclear respectively. Unless otherwise provided in the Venture Agreement, the vote of the participant with a participating interest greater than 50% will determine decisions of the management committee. A participant may elect to participate in an approved program and budget either (i) in proportion to the participant’s respective interest in the Venture, or (ii) not at all. In the event that a participant elects not to participate in a program and budget, then its participating interest in the Venture Agreement is subject to recalculation in accordance with the Venture Agreement to reflect the decision not to participate.
This overview of the Venture Agreement does not provide a full discussion of all terms and conditions of the Venture Agreement. Investors are encouraged to read the entire copy of the Venture Agreement that was filed with the SEC as an exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 22, 2008.
The Arkose Mining Venture includes the following property units on which we have conducted exploration:
South Doughstick
Cedar Canyon
East Buck
South Collins Draw
Sand Rock
Little Butte
House Creek
Beecher Draw
Lone Bull
Other Powder River Basin Projects
Through a combination of claim staking, purchasing, and leasing, we also have acquired interests in several projects that lie within the Powder River Basin but outside of the project areas discussed above. These properties include the Verna Ann, Niles Ranch, North Reno Creek, and South Reno Creek projects which cover approximately 1,694 acres. In general, these projects are located in sandstone basins of Tertiary age with known uranium mineralization. However, due to our focused approach we have not yet initiated exploration work on these projects. Additional leasing in the North Reno Creek Project has prompted us to look into acquiring past exploration and development data for this area in an attempt to support a future National Instrument 43-101 report. If warranted, environmental base line work may begin thereafter with the goal of submitting an environmental permit application for ISR facilities as soon as possible.
Forfeiture of certain Powder River Basin and Great Divide Basin interests
During August 2009, we decided to forfeit our interests in certain mining claims in the Powder River Basin and the Great Divide which we determined, based on the review, analysis and recommendations of our geological staff, did not merit further exploration and accordingly were no longer of strategic interest or value to the Company. The claims, which were forfeited, effective September 1, 2009, when the annual renewal fee would have become due, were comprised of: 285 claims in which we had held a 100% interest in the Streeter, Collins Draw, East Nichols, North Nichols, Eagle and Cyclone Rim project areas and 132 claims in the Little Butte and South Collins project areas, in which we held an 81% interest through the Arkose Mining Venture. We will continue to review our property portfolio and may decide to forfeit other interests in the future if we determine that they are no longer of strategic interest.
NI 43-101 Technical Reports
We have obtained technical reports on the following material properties:
Cautionary Note to United States Investors
As a company listed on the TSX, we are required by Canadian law to provide disclosure in accordance with Canadian Securities Administrators’ National Instrument 43-101 - Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects (“NI 43-101”). This required disclosure includes the preparation and filing of technical reports on our material mineral properties with Canadian securities commissions under NI 43-101. These technical reports are furnished by us to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on Form 8-K in order to satisfy our “public disclosure” obligations under SEC Regulation FD and are not filed with the SEC. U.S. reporting requirements for disclosure of mineral properties, including disclosure required in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are governed by the Industry Guide 7 ("SEC Guide 7") of the SEC. The standards of disclosure of mineral properties under NI 43-101 and SEC Guide 7 are substantially different. All mineral resources disclosed in our NI 43-101 technical reports referenced herein have been estimated in accordance with the definition standards on mineral resources and mineral reserves of the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum referred to in National Instrument 43-101, commonly referred to as "NI 43-101". The terms "mineral reserve", "proven mineral reserve" and "probable mineral reserve" are Canadian mining terms as defined in accordance with NI 43-101. These definitions differ from the definitions in SEC Guide 7. Under SEC Guide 7 standards, a "final" or "bankable" feasibility study is required to report reserves, the three-year historical average price is used in any reserve or cash flow analysis to designate reserves and the primary environmental analysis or report must be filed with the appropriate governmental authority.
The NI 43-101 technical reports referenced herein use the terms "mineral resource," "measured mineral resource," "indicated mineral resource" and "inferred mineral resource". We advise investors that these terms are defined in and required to be disclosed by NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined terms under SEC Guide 7 and are normally not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into SEC Guide 7 reserves. "Inferred mineral resources" have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of feasibility or pre-feasibility studies, except in rare cases. Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of any mineral resource exists or is economically or legally mineable. Disclosure of "contained pounds" in a resource is permitted disclosure under Canadian regulations; however, the SEC normally only permits issuers to report mineralization that does not constitute "reserves" by SEC standards as in-place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures.
The following information regarding our ownership interests in our material properties, their geology and their exploration history is taken from these technical reports.
Hank Unit and Nichols Ranch Unit
Within the Nichols Ranch Unit we have 36 unpatented lode mining claims, two fee surface and mineral leases, and one surface use agreement. There is an overriding royalty interest in favor of Excalibur Industries on all federal unpatented lode mining claims that were acquired by us from Excalibur Industries. Many of the unpatented lode mining claims located at the Hank Unit and at the Nichols Ranch Unit have an associated gross royalty payable to Excalibur Industries of 6 percent when the spot price of uranium is less than $45.00 per pound and of 8 percent if the uranium spot price is $45.00 per pound or higher. In addition, there is a portion of the Nichols Ranch Unit that includes private (fee) mineral that is subject to the above Excalibur Industries royalty, plus an additional royalty payable to the fee mineral owner under the fee leases (equaling a 12 percent or 16 percent royalty depending upon the spot price of uranium).
Within the Hank Unit, we have 66 unpatented lode mining claims, two fee surface and mineral leases, and one surface use agreement. The Hank Unit permit boundary encompasses approximately 2,250 acres. Within the permit boundary, we have the right to mine approximately 1,393 acres of mineral rights. Of the 66 unpatented lode mining claims comprising the Hank Unit, 56 of the claims have a royalty interest burden, payable to Excalibur Industries, of six or eight percent depending on the selling price of uranium. This royalty interest is based on uranium produced from these claims.
West North-Butte Satellite Properties
The West North-Butte property covers approximately 2,360 acres of land and is comprised of 145 unpatented lode mining claims and one surface use agreement, of which 6 unpatented lode mining claims are subject to a royalty interest burden, payable to Excalibur Industries, of six or eight percent depending on the price of uranium.
The east portion of the West North-Butte property covers approximately 325 acres of land and is comprised of 17 unpatented lode mining claims and one surface use agreement. None of the claims in this property are subject to a royalty.
The Willow Creek property covers approximately 220 acres of land and is comprised of 11 unpatented lode mining claims and one surface use agreement, all of which unpatented lode mining claims are subject to a royalty interest burden, payable to Excalibur Industries, of six or eight percent depending on the price of uranium.
Arkose Mining Venture
The Arkose Mining Venture properties consist of unpatented lode mining claims, fee mineral leases, and state mineral leases. The land surface consists of private, federal and state lands. There are 4,109 unpatented lode mining claims included in the Arkose Property which comprise 67,221 acres and 69 fee mineral leases and 3 state leases included in the Arkose Property which comprise 21,146 acres. All of the unpatented lode mining claims are owned by us subject to the beneficial interests of the participants in the Arkose Mining Venture.
Of the 4,109 unpatented lode mining claims, 1,218 unpatented lode mining claims have an overriding royalty interest burden of 0.25%. This overriding royalty interest is based on production of uranium on these claims.
The title of the Arkose Mining Venture to the leased property included in the Arkose Property is a leasehold interest subject to the various terms as set forth in the applicable leases (the “Arkose Leases”). The Arkose Leases are mineral leases only and the Arkose Mining Venture obtained surface use agreements with the various surface owners of said lands prior to commencing any activities. The majority of the Arkose Leases (other than the three state leases, which are paid annually) are paid up for either five or ten years. The five-year paid-up leases have an option to extend for a second five-year term, and for so long thereafter as the property under the lease is in production. The Arkose Leases only cover uranium and other fissionable minerals. Commingling of ores from adjacent lands is allowable under the fee mineral leases.
Royalties under the fee mineral leases are variable and can range from a flat 4% on uranium production to a sliding scale of 2-10% with different intermediate break points with the 10% rate applying to sales prices of $100 per pound of uranium and greater.
Unpatented Lode Mining Claims
Our unpatented lode mining claims, including those subject to the Arkose Mining Venture, are located on minerals owned by the federal government and open to location, with the surface being owned either by the federal government or private individuals. In addition, the unpatented lode mining claims are recorded in the appropriate county and filed with the state office of the Bureau of Land Management (the “BLM”).
The unpatented lode claims do not have an expiration date. However, affidavits must be filed annually with the BLM and respective county recorder’s offices in order to maintain the claims’ validity. All of the unpatented lode claims have annual filing requirements ($140 per claim) with the BLM, to be paid on or before September 1 of each year.
Most of the above-mentioned unpatented lode claims are located on Stock Raising Homestead land where the U.S. government has issued a patent for the surface to an individual and reserved the minerals to the U.S. government subject to the location rights by claimants as set forth in the 1872 Mining Law.
Mining Leases
Our leasehold interests within our 100% owned properties are subject to the various terms as set forth in the applicable leases. The state leases and leases on fee mineral lands usually have annual payments, royalty obligations, and the term of the leases vary, but for the most part can be extended by production. The fee surface and mineral leases apply only to uranium and other fissionable minerals and typically have a 10-year term with the right to extend the leases with production. Commingling of production from adjacent lands is allowable under the fee mineral leases.
Surface Rights
The Powder River Basin area has surface rights under applicable laws that allow for exploration disturbance, road construction and facility siting. The claimant must first notify the surface owner of its intention to locate unpatented lode mining claims on the owner’s surface and then try and reach an agreement with the surface owner to pay for damages caused by the claimant’s operations. If an agreement cannot be reached, the claimant may post a bond with the Bureau of Land Management to cover the amount of the damages caused by the claimant’s operations.
We have negotiated surface use agreements with various surface owners covering a majority of our project areas. We are currently negotiating with various surface owners to enter into surface agreements covering the balance of the unpatented lode claims not already covered by surface use agreements. The surface use agreements typically provide for reimbursement to the surface owner of actual damages resulting from our operations.
Taxes and Fees
We will be required to pay severance tax and ad valorem tax to the State of Wyoming, in addition to various maintenance, land impact and access fees as well as other consideration to surface holders.
Location and Access; Topography, Elevation and Vegetation; Climate
The Powder River Basin area is located approximately 50 miles southwest of Gillette, Wyoming and 100 miles northeast of Casper, Wyoming. The area is accessed from State Highway 50 from the east or State Highway 387 from the south, and various internal gravel surface county and private roads. Casper is on Interstate 25, approximately one hour by air from either Denver, Colorado or Salt Lake City, Utah.
Our Powder River Basin properties are located in portions of Campbell and Johnson Counties, Wyoming, U.S.A., and are approximately 60 air miles northeast of Casper, Wyoming. The Powder River Basin properties cover lands in various sections in the Townships 41 to 44 North and Ranges 74 to 78 West.
The center of our properties (centered east-west) is approximately eight miles west of the junction of Wyoming Highways 50 and 387. The properties are accessible via two-wheel drive on existing county and/or private gravel and dirt roads. Accessibility for drilling at this time appears acceptable with the exception of very wet or snowy ground surface conditions. Road development and improvements may be required at a later time in order to support future development, if warranted, of well fields and processing facilities.
The Powder River Basin properties are located within the Wyoming Basin physiographic province in the central portion of the Powder River Basin, within the Pumpkin Buttes Mining District. The Pumpkin Buttes are a series of small buttes rising several hundred feet above the surrounding plains. Portions of the Powder River Basin properties are located east, west and south of these buttes. The cap rocks on top of the buttes are erosional remnants of the Tertiary White River Formation that is believed to have overlain the majority of the Powder River Basin. The volcanic tuffs in the White River Formation have been cited as the source of uranium in this basin.
The area in which the Powder River Basin properties is located is a low lying plain, and elevations range from approximately 4,390 feet (1,440 meters) in the northwest to approximately 5,450 feet (1,790 meters) in the southeast. Historically and currently the land is used for livestock and wildlife grazing. Vegetation is characteristically sagebrush grassland with some pines on elevated terrain and some deciduous trees within drainages.
The climate is semi-arid and receives an annual precipitation of approximately 9.4 inches, the most falling in the form of late autumnal to early spring snows. The summer months are usually hot, dry and clear except for infrequent heavy rains. Cold, wind and snow/blizzards can make winter exploration work in this area difficult but not impossible. The weather may limit the time periods for capital construction but should not have any significant adverse impacts on the operation of an ISR facility.
Geology
Our Powder River Basin properties encompass approximately 119,312 acres, and potential target mineralized zones are expected to occur throughout the properties. The potential target mineralization within the Powder River Basin properties is believed to be alteration-reduction trends hosted in the Eocene age channel sands that lie at depths of approximately 300 to 1,100 feet from the surface. Roll front deposits of uranium mineralized material are anticipated to occur within these properties. An alteration reduction trend is a natural chemical boundary trend line in a sandstone aquifer where reduced (non-oxidized) sand is in contact with altered (oxidized) sand. Uranium mineralization may be found along the trend line.
Our Powder River Basin properties contain alteration-reduction trends hosted in Eocene age channel sands. Alteration-reduction trends in the Pumpkin Buttes Mining District are typically composed of multiple, stacked roll front deposits that often contain associated uranium mineralization. A stacked role front is a type of uranium occurrence found in thick sandstone where a number of mineralization trends are stacked on top of each other. Uranium mineralization within and adjacent to the Powder River Basin properties are found in the Eocene Wasatch Formation (Wasatch). The Wasatch is a fluvial deposit composed of arkosic sandstones that are typically 25% or more feldspar grains and indicates a source rock where chemical weathering was not extreme and the sediments have not been transported far. A fluvial deposit is a deposit of uranium mineralization found in sandstones that originated from sediments laid down by streams and rivers. The arkosic sandstone is a type of sandstone that contains a high percentage of feldspar grains. The medium grain size and relatively good sorting of this sediment implies water transportation, probably in a meandering river/stream system. The Wasatch formation is interlaid with sandstones, claystones, siltstones, carbonaceous shale, and thin coal seams that overlie the Paleocene Fort Union Formation, another fluvial sedimentary unit.
Exploration History
Our Powder River Basin properties are located within the Pumpkin Buttes Mining District which was the first commercial uranium production district in Wyoming. Uranium was first discovered in the Pumpkin Buttes in 1951. Intermittent production from some 55 small mines through 1967 produced 36,737 tons of ore containing 208,143 pounds of uranium. This early mining focused on shallow oxidized ores exploited by small open pit mines. The ore was generally transported to the Atomic Energy Commission buying station in Edgemont, South Dakota. Modern mining in the district has focused on deeper reduced ores. Uranium One’s Christensen Ranch and Irigaray ISR uranium mining areas and processing facilities are located within the Pumpkin Buttes Mining District, approximately 10 and 16 air miles, respectively, from the Arkose Property. These mines have completed successful ISR mining and aquifer restoration in the Wasatch formation.
These properties were originally part of a large exploration area encompassing Townships 33 through 50 North of Ranges 69 through 79 West, on the 6th principal meridian. In 1966, Mountain West Mines Inc. (MWM, now Excalibur Industries) began a successful drilling exploration program in a portion of this area. In 1967, MWM entered into an agreement with Cleveland-Cliffs Iron Company (CCI) for further exploration and option if suitable resources were found. CCI exercised its option in 1976 with plans to begin underground mining operations in the vicinity of North Butte. Changing economic conditions and the development of ISR mining technology reportedly ended much of CCI’s interest in the area. By the late 1980s they began selling select properties or allowing them to revert back to the federal government.
In addition to CCI, other uranium exploration companies during the last forty years have controlled property either within or near our Powder River Basin properties. These included Kerr McGee, Conoco, Texaco, American Nuclear, Tennessee Valley Authority and Uranerz U.S.A., Inc. Uranium One NC (via subsidiary Cogema Resources Inc. (“Cogema”) and Power Resources Inc. (a subsidiary of Cameco Corporation) have retained portions of their original land positions in the area. The mining claims and leases originally controlled by most of these companies were let go over the years due to market conditions. These property abandonments continued into 2004.
As a result of this history of exploration and our own exploration efforts, there is available to us for our exploration of the Powder River Basin properties published and unpublished mineral trend projections, mineral resource summaries and historic and current mineral resource reports developed by us or other operators from these properties or adjacent mineral properties, as applicable. In addition, there are publicly available drill results from approximately 1,250 coal bed methane (CBM) exploration/production wells in the region of the Arkose Mining Venture properties, which are discussed further below.
Nichols Ranch ISR Project
Between 1968 and 1980 CCI drilled 117 holes and installed 3 water wells on the Nichols Ranch property. Texas Eastern Nuclear Inc. in 1985 completed limited drilling and exploration on the property and in early 1990s Rio Algom Co. also completed limited drilling in the area.
Hank Unit
Between 1968 and 1980, CCI drilled 197 holes within the Hank Unit. In 1985, Texas Eastern Nuclear, Inc. completed limited drilling and exploration on the property (approximately 28 borings). In the early 1990s, Kerr McGee Corporation and Rio Algom Mining Corporation also completed limited drilling in the area.
We drilled 61 exploratory holes and seven wells within the Hank Unit during 2006 and 2007 and eight additional wells in 2009. We drilled 257 exploration holes, including three core holes, and three water wells at Nichols Ranch during 2006 and 2007 and 25 exploration holes and seven wells in 2009.
West North- Butte Satellite Properties
Between 1968 and 1985, CCI drilled approximately 380 exploratory holes with the satellite properties. From 1983 to 1985, Texas Eastern Nuclear drilled approximately 12 exploratory holes in the satellite properties and from approximately 1990 to 1992 Rio Algom Mining Corporation drilled approximately 5 exploratory holes. In 2006, we completed an acquisition of the satellite properties, and in 2007 and 2008, drilled approximately 127 exploratory holes.
Arkose Mining Venture
It is estimated that over 4,000 historic uranium exploration holes may have been drilled within the Arkose Property. This exploration was conducted by numerous exploration companies from the 1960s through the 1990s. Although this historic exploration data are known to exist, obtaining information on all but a handful (less than 50) of specific drill hole data, such as gamma, resistivity, and lithology logs, was not possible. Coal bed methane (“CBM”) exploration/production wells were drilled by numerous companies for development of CBM resources in the area. A total of approximately 1,250 CBM exploration/production wells have been drilled on or immediately adjacent to the Arkose Property. Most of this drilling was completed from 1,200 to 2,000 feet deep and is on-going. CBM exploration/production wells and their associated gamma logs are all drilled and logged through the uranium mineralization-bearing sand horizons. Utilizing the available uranium drill data and the CBM drill data base, we had a technical report prepared in February 2008 to independently address the geology and potential uranium mineralization within our mineral holdings on the Arkose Mining Venture. This technical report was prepared in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 requirements, as discussed above under “NI 43-101 Technical Reports”.
The NAMMCO Sellers commenced acquiring rights to the properties comprising the Arkose Property in 2005, and continued to do so through 2006 and 2007. On January 15, 2008, we completed the acquisition of an undivided 81% percent interest in the Arkose Property and formed the Arkose Mining Venture with the vendors of these properties, the NAMMCO Sellers, as described in greater detail above under “Arkose Mining Venture”.
Local Resources and Properties Infrastructure
Infrastructure at the site of the Powder River Basin properties is dominantly related to local oil, gas, and CBM exploration and development. Mineralized locations will affect future siting of well fields and processing facilities. Generally, the proximity of the Powder River Basin properties to paved roads will be beneficial with respect to transportation of equipment, supplies, personnel and product to and from the properties. Power transmission lines are located on or near parts of the Powder River Basin properties. Based upon discussions with the local electrical service provider, overhead power is currently committed but additional power for future projects can be made available. Water is available from wells developed at planned facility locations (potable) and water for in-situ recovery (“ISR”) operations, if necessary, will come from the operation itself, i.e. the extracted groundwater. Therefore, the basic infrastructure (power, water and transportation) required to support an ISR mining operation is located within reasonable proximity of the Powder River Basin properties.
Personnel required for exploration, construction and operation at the Powder River Basin properties are expected to come from Gillette, Wright, Buffalo and Casper, Wyoming.
Typical ISR mining operations also require a disposal well for limited quantities of fluids that cannot be returned to the production aquifers. Commonly, oil and gas wells within aquifers that have been or can be condemned for public use, are utilized for such purposes. Oil and gas wells, both abandoned and producing, are located in the immediate vicinity of the properties.
Our Powder River Basin properties are undeveloped and do not contain any open-pit or underground mines. There is no plant or mining equipment located on any of our Wyoming mineral properties. There are no pre-existing mineral processing facilities or related wastes on the property.
Exploration Completed by Uranerz
2009 Drilling Program
During 2009 we were engaged in drilling exploration efforts on both our 100% owned Powder River Basin properties and on the Arkose Mining Venture Powder River Basin properties. The purpose of the 2009 drilling program was to find previously unknown or little-known uranium mineralization trends and to delineate known trends, which would provide data for permitting and eventual production operations in favorably identified areas. During the 2009 drilling program, approximately 11.5 miles of uranium roll front trends were investigated. Approximately 3 miles of the 11.5 miles of trends had favorable uranium mineralization. Uranium mineralization ranged from less than 0.01% eU3O8 to 1.18% eU3O8. Approximately 36% of the 565 holes drilled during 2009 met or exceeded our minimum cut-off grade of 0.03% eU3O8.
On our 100% owned properties, 51 delineation holes were drilled on our Nichols Ranch, Doughstick and North Nichols Ranch properties. The purpose of this drilling was primarily to prepare for the installation of baseline monitor wells for our planned Nichols Ranch ISR production facility. A National Instrument 43-101 report was completed on the Nichols Ranch property in June of 2009. It estimated “indicated” mineral resources of approximately 2,949,546 pounds of eU3O8 at an average grade of 0.114%.
Additional drilling was carried out on the Company’s 100% owned Doughstick properties, which lead to the preparation of a combined National Instrument Report, as described above, in respect of this property as well as Arkose’s North Jane and Doughstick properties.
During 2009, on Arkose Mining Venture properties, a total of 514 holes were drilled. At Arkose’s North Jane Property a total of 51 holes were drilled with mineralization found in two horizons of the 100 sand. A combined National Instrument 43-101 independent report in respect of the Company’s 100% owned Doughstick property and Arkose’s North Jane and Doughstick properties was prepared in respect of the 2009 drilling results from those properties and filed in January of 2010. The report estimated, for all such properties, “measured and indicated” mineral resources of approximately 967,883 pounds of eU3O8 and “inferred” mineral resources of approximately 87,981 pounds.
At Arkose’s South Doughstick property 104 delineation drill holes were completed. Favorable mineralization led to the completion of an independent National Instrument NI 43-101 technical report dated October 12, 2009 and subsequently amended on February 25, 2010. The amended report estimates a “measured and indicated mineral resource of approximately 2,287,250 pounds of eU3O8 at an average grade of 0.121% and an “inferred’ mineral resource of approximately 189,305 pounds at an average grade of 0.096%.
2008 Exploration Program
In 2008 we were engaged in drilling exploration efforts on both our 100% owned Powder River Basin properties, and on the Arkose Mining Venture properties. During the 2008 drilling program, approximately 19 miles of uranium roll front trends were investigated. Approximately 7 miles of the 19 miles of trends had favorable uranium mineralization. Uranium mineralization ranged from <0.01% eU3O8 to 2.65% eU3O8. A cut-off grade of 0.03% eU3O8 was established for the Uranerz and Arkose properties. Approximately 34.5% of the 933 holes drilled during 2008 met or exceeded the minimum cutoff grade.
For the 2008 drilling season, March 6, 2008 through December 12, 2008, a total of 933 exploration and delineation holes were completed. The average depth per hole was 687 feet and a total of 640,578 feet was drilled. Breakout of the drilling was 165 holes on our 100% owned properties and 768 holes on Arkose Mining Venture properties.
We determined based on the results of this drilling program to complete a NI 43-101 technical report on the South Doughstick property. We received this technical report in February of 2010.
During 2008 no new exploration work was undertaken in the immediate Nichols Ranch proposed mine area.
In December 2008 we received an independent NI 43-101 technical report for the nearby West North-Butte Satellite Properties. A copy of this technical report was filed on SEDAR on December 11, 2008 and a copy furnished to the SEC on December 11, 2008.
2006 and 2007 Exploration Programs
We drilled a total of 78 rotary drill holes on the Hank, Nichols Ranch, and Doughstick projects during 2006, with 46 holes demonstrating uranium mineralization.
During 2006 environmental permitting activities also continued at the Hank and Nichols Ranch projects with the completion of a total of five hydrogeologic test wells, and the drilling of six core holes. The core was submitted for laboratory testing to support radiation permitting requirements as well as to define resource disequilibrium attributes.
From February 19 to December 20, 2007, we drilled a total of 486 uranium trend delineation holes and eight hydrologic sampling wells on our 100%owned properties located in the central Powder River Basin, utilizing as many as three drill rigs and one electric log probing unit. This represents a total of approximately 300,000 feet of drilling with an average depth of 617 feet per hole.
A total of 214 delineation holes were drilled on Nichols Ranch in 2007. In the final months of the 2007 drilling program, we focused our exploration efforts on our West North-Butte, Collins Draw, Hank and Nichols Ranch properties to facilitate sub-surface geologic mapping with cross sections and to refine previous geologic models delineating known trends of uranium mineralization.
2010 Exploration/ Development Program
For 2010, the Arkose Mining Venture plans to utilize two drill rigs and one company electric logging unit. Supervision in the field would be conducted by a Uranerz field geologist. The drilling is planned to concentrate on exploration for uranium in the northeast targets of East Buck and Kermit project areas and in the South Doughstick area.
The goal of the 2010 exploration plan is to continue uranium exploration momentum that began in 2008 and to demonstrate commitment to finding and developing uranium mineralization that is commercially profitable on the Arkose properties. The plan includes drilling a total of 400 holes with an aggregate footage of 280,000 feet. In 2009, the average hole depth was 681 feet. In 2010, the average hole depth is thought to be around 700 feet. Approximately 225 holes will be drilled in the East Buck project area where mineralization was found in 2008 but due to surface ownership access and/or mineral fee leasing issues, was not available until 2010. Another 125 holes will be drilled in the Kermit area immediately south of East Buck. In addition, 50 holes are planned for South Doughstick to follow-up on exploration to the south of the main mineralization on a subsidiary roll trend. Drilling is planned to begin in April 2010 and continue through October 2010 for about 7 months depending on cooperation from the weather.
During 2010, the Uranerz plan for the development of production and monitor wells at Nichols Ranch, Mining Unit 1 (MU1) will be undertaken. The plan includes a 5 month drilling program beginning upon issue of the mining permits and will require up to 6 contract drill rigs; existing company electric logging unit, cementing unit, backhoe; a cement mix truck, 2 cement storage silos; an air compressor for well development; a pump pulling unit; and contract or hire 6 new field personnel to conduct cementing and well equipment installation.
It is estimated that one well pilot hole per two installed wells will be “Drilled Not Completed” (DNC) due to the irregular mineralization outline. These holes will be abandoned with cement using the company cementing unit.
The weld field installation includes drilling, casing, cementing, well development, pump, wire, drop pipe, O2 system, and a weather enclosure. After the wells have their completion zones finished a pump pulling unit will install the production/monitor pumps. A total of 270 wells are planned to be installed including 30 perimeter monitor wells, 132 injection wells, 108 production wells, and 120 DNC’s. Approximately 50% of MU1 wells would be installed during 2010.
Nichols Ranch ISR Project
The mine plan for the Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project includes a central processing facility at our Nichols Ranch property and a satellite ion exchange facility at our Hank property. The ultimate production level from these two properties is planned to be in the range of 600,000 to 800,000 pounds per year (as U3O8). The central processing facility is planned for a licensed capacity of 2 million pounds per year of uranium (as U3O8) and it is intended that it will process uranium-bearing well-field solutions from Nichols Ranch, as well as uranium-loaded resin transported from the Hank satellite facility, plus uranium-loaded resin from any additional satellite deposits that may be developed on our other Powder River Basin properties. We believe this centralized design enhances the economics of our potential additional satellite projects by maximizing production capacity while minimizing further capital expenditures on processing facilities. The project is progressing through detailed engineering and design with 95% of design work completed by end of December 2009.
Preliminary Assessment
We obtained a preliminary assessment or scoping study of the Nichols Ranch Uranium In-Situ Recovery Project (Project) in July 2008. The preliminary assessment was prepared for us in accordance with the guidelines set forth under NI 43-101 and the Standards and Guidelines of the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum incorporated by reference therein for the submission of technical reports on mining properties. The purpose of the assessment was to perform a preliminary evaluation of the technical and economic viability of the Project using the most current scientific, engineering and cost information available. The preliminary assessment was prepared to support our development and licensing strategy for our Nichols Ranch and Hank properties. Investors are cautioned that this assessment was preliminary in nature and is not based on capital and operating costs estimates that are sufficiently refined to support a feasibility study evaluating the project.
The assessment analyzed the planned development of a commercial uranium ISR and processing operation. The evaluation uses available design information to develop capital and operating cost estimates for the proposed well fields, processing plants, infrastructure and associated facilities. Capital and operating cost estimates were provided in the preliminary assessment along with an economic analysis based on these costs and projected revenue from the recovery and sale of uranium (U3O8).
Location of the Nichols Ranch ISR Project
The Nichols Ranch ISR Project would be on the properties comprising our Nichols Ranch ISR main unit and our Hank ISR satellite unit, as illustrated below:
Uranerz Energy Corporation - Nichols Ranch ISR Project Map - March
Source: Uranerz Energy Corporation 2010
Targeted Mineralization
The targeted mineralized zones for the Nichols Ranch Unit in the A sand unit are 300 to 700 feet below the surface and occur in two long narrow trends meeting at the nose. The nose is in the northwest corner of the deposit where the two narrow trends meet to form the tip of the geochemical front. The Hank Unit’s two targeted mineralized zones in the F Sand unit range from 200 to 600 feet below the ground surface depending on the topography and changes in the formation elevation and stratigraphic horizon.
Mining Plan
In order to mine the uranium resources at the Project, infrastructure, including four well fields, a central processing plant (the “Nichols Ranch CPP”) and a satellite ion exchange (IX) plant (the “Hank Satellite Facility”) are being designed and will need to be constructed. Well fields are designated areas above the mineralized zone that are sized to achieve the desired production goals. The piping/well system will inject water-leaching solution into the mineralized zone and recover the uranium-enriched water after it has flowed through the mineralization. The mineralized zone is the geological sandstone unit where the recovery solutions are injected and recovered in an in-situ recovery well field, and it is bounded between impermeable aquitards. Production areas are the individual areas that will be mined in the well field. The injection and recovery wells are completed in the mineralized zone intervals of the production sand.
We anticipate the patterns for the injection and recovery wells to follow the conventional five-spot pattern. Depending on the mineralized zone shape, seven spot or line drive patterns may be used in some locations. A typical five spot pattern contains four injections wells and one recovery well. The dimensions of the pattern vary depending on the mineralized zone, but the injection wells will likely be between 50 to 150 feet apart. In order to effectively recover the uranium and also to complete the groundwater restoration, the wells will be completed so that they can be used as either injection or recovery wells. During mining operations, a slightly greater volume of water will be recovered from the mineralized zone aquifer than injected in order to create a cone of depression or a flow gradient towards the recovery wells.
The Nichols Ranch Unit is anticipated to include the Nichols Ranch CPP and two production areas, NR-1 and NR-2. As the productivity or solution grade (uranium concentration in the lixiviant) of some patterns for NR-1 decrease below the economic limit, replacement patterns from NR-2 will be placed into operation in order to maintain the desired flow rate and solution grade at the processing plant. Eventually, all the patterns in NR-1 will reach their economic limit and all production flow in that area will cease. At that time, all production flow will be coming from NR-2 and restoration activities will commence at NR-1.
Each planned Nichols Ranch Unit production area includes a number of injection wells, recovery wells, monitoring wells, header houses and associated piping and power supply. Header houses will be located within the well field and will distribute recovered fluids from recovery wells to trunk lines, and injection fluids from the processing facility through the trunk lines to injection wells. The planned Nichols Ranch Unit is anticipated to include the following:
486 injection wells;
418 recovery wells;
95 monitoring wells; and
23 header houses.
The planned Hank Unit will include a satellite IX facility and two production areas, H-1 and H-2. The Hank Unit production areas will follow a similar developmental, production, and restoration schedule as outlined above for the Nichols Ranch Unit production areas.
Each planned Hank Unit production area includes a number of injection wells, recovery wells, monitoring wells, header houses and associated piping and power supply. The planned Hank Unit is anticipated to include the following:
402 injection wells;
318 recovery wells;
80 monitoring wells; and
19 header houses.
Two Underground Injection Control (UIC) deep disposal wells will also be required, one at the Nichols Ranch Unit and one at the Hank Unit, for disposal of liquid wastes from well field bleed, processing plant operations and restoration.
Mine Planning and Permitting
We are proceeding with mine planning for the Nichols Ranch Uranium In-Situ Recovery Project that would initially be sited on the Hank and Nichols Ranch properties. Because of the long lead times for environmental permitting of mining operations in North America, in 2007 we filed applications to the State of Wyoming (“WDEQ”) and the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission (“NRC”) for permits to conduct ISR mining of uranium for the Nichols Ranch and Hank properties. We engaged TRC based in Laramie, Wyoming as the prime contractor for performing the several environmental baseline studies. We have engaged Hydro Engineering from Casper, Wyoming to perform the necessary aquifer pump tests, and prepare the hydrology section of the environmental permit applications. We have to date completed environmental surveys such as vegetation, soils, wildlife, cultural resources, radiation and water quality. Reports were prepared and incorporated into our applications which were submitted to the WDEQ and NRC in the last quarter of 2007. Approval of the environmental permit applications is expected to allow us to proceed with commercial advancement of the two properties leading to production of yellowcake using the ISR method of uranium mining should it be determined that development is warranted.
The primary regulatory approvals for an ISR uranium mine come from the WDEQ at the state level, and from the NRC at the federal level. The WDEQ issues a Permit to Mine, and the NRC issues a Source Material License. The NRC has completed a Generic Environmental Impact Statement applying to new uranium ISR production activities. Both the state and federal agencies look at all environmental aspects of a proposed ISR mine including reclamation of the land surface following mining operations, and restoration of impacted ground water. Work place safety and the safety of the public are also closely monitored by regulatory agencies. Posting of a reclamation bond by the mine operator with the regulatory agencies in an amount to cover the total estimated cost of reclamation by a third party is also a requirement of the law. The reclamation bond must be a "hard" bond which means it must be either cash, certificate of deposit, letter of credit or some other similar type of financial instrument.
In April 2008 the NRC deemed our application acceptable to advance to the detailed technical and environmental stage of review. In August 2008 the WDEQ deemed our application to build and operate an in-situ recovery mine “complete” and ready to move to the next stage of review. The next stage includes a detailed technical and environmental review of the application and public discussion. Concurrently, the NRC review of our application for a Source Material License is proceeding in a normal manner. Approval of the permit applications is expected to allow us to proceed with commercial advancement of the two properties leading to production of yellowcake using the ISR method of uranium mining.
In March of 2009 we submitted our response to a Request for Additional Information (“RAI”) which was received in the fall of 2008 following the NRC’s technical reviews. During 2009 we responded to a further RAI issued by the NRC in respect of its environmental review.
In October of 2009 WDEQ - Air Quality Division approved and issued the air quality permit for our Nichols Ranch ISR Project in the form of a Permit to Construct the Project, including the Nichols Ranch Central Processing facility and the Hank Satellite Plant. This is the first operational permit for construction of the Project received by the Company.
In December of 2009 the NRC issued a draft Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement ("SEIS") for the Nichols Ranch ISR Project. The draft SEIS for the Nichols Ranch ISR Project was issued as a "Supplement to the Generic Environmental Impact Statement for In-Situ Leach Uranium Milling Facilities". The draft SEIS was open for public comment until March 3, 2010. On March 3, 2010 the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) submitted, in a letter to the NRC, a comment on the draft SEIS. In its comment letter the EPA raises certain concerns, the primary of which are that, in its view: (a) the draft SEIS does not sufficiently analyze water disposal alternatives or discuss waste management impacts ; and (b) the draft SEIS lacks sufficient information regarding air pollutants and the impact of emissions. The EPA requests a revised or supplemental SEIS. Comment letters in response to the draft SEIS were not unexpected, however the impact of the EPA letter on our permitting application and how the NRC might respond to the letter is not yet known. It is possible that the letter or any other comments in response to the draft SEIS may delay our permit application or otherwise negatively impact or influence the outcome of our application.
During late 2008 and early 2009, leach amenability studies were performed on sample cores obtained from the Doughstick and South Doughstick properties. Standard ISR leach “bottle roll” tests were conducted on the samples by Energy Laboratories in Casper, Wyoming. The leach amenability studies intend to demonstrate that the uranium mineralization is capable of being leached using conventional ISR chemistry. The leach solution was prepared using sodium bicarbonate as the source of the carbonate complexing agent. Hydrogen peroxide was added as the uranium oxidizing agent. The study is an indication of the ore’s reaction rate and the potential uranium recovery. The test results showed the uranium recovery percentage for South Doughstick as 87.8%, and the uranium recovery percentage for Doughstick as 77.1%. The 88% and 77% results are greater than the 73% that Uranerz used in its Preliminary (Economic) Assessment of the Nichols Ranch ISR Project. Doughstick and South Doughstick properties are located approximately two miles south of Nichols Ranch.
We caution investors that we have not at this stage completed any comprehensive feasibility studies on these properties demonstrating that development of any of the properties is commercially warranted. Proceeding with these advanced activities prior to completing detailed feasibility analysis adds risk to our plan of operations and we may incur costs which might not otherwise have been incurred.
Prior to the start of mining (the injection of lixiviant into the ore body aquifer), we must have obtained all the necessary permits, licenses, and approvals required by the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality - Land, Water and Air Divisions and the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The various state and federal permits and licenses that are needed or have been obtained for the Project are summarized below:
Permits and Licenses for the Nichols Ranch ISR Project
Notes: NRC - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
WDEQ-LQD - Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality Land Quality Division
WDEQ-WQD - Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality Water Quality Division
WDEQ-AQD - Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality Air Quality Division
WYPDES - Wyoming Pollution Discharge Elimination System
SEO - State Engineer's Office
2010 Plan of Operations for Powder River Basin Properties
During 2010, we plan to:
continue with our exploration of our Powder River Basin Properties as outlined above under “2010 Exploration Plan”;
continue with our permitting and mine planning efforts, including proceeding with environmental studies and engineering and design, in connection with the Nichols Ranch ISR Project, as outlined above under “Nichols Ranch ISR Project”; and
once permitting has been achieved, to commence construction of our Nichols Ranch ISR Project.
All of our projects are at the exploration stage and there can be no assurance that a commercially viable mineral deposit, or reserve, exists on any of our properties until appropriate exploratory work is done and a comprehensive evaluation based on such work concludes legal and economic feasibility. Further exploration will be required before a final evaluation as to the economic, technical and legal feasibility of mining of any of our properties is determined. There is no assurance that further exploration will result in a final evaluation that a commercially viable mineral deposit exists on any of our mineral properties. We anticipate that we will require additional financing in order to pursue full development of these projects. We have sufficient financing to continue exploration and development planning of our mineral claims but there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary financing to conduct mining activities, if warranted. Because of the long lead times for environmental permitting of mining operations in North America, we have collected environmental baseline data and filed the environmental permitting applications on two of our properties in the Powder River Basin area of Wyoming that we feel may have the potential, based on data in our possession, of being developed into commercial in-situ recovery uranium mines. However, we have not at this stage completed any comprehensive feasibility studies on these properties demonstrating that development of any of the properties is commercially warranted. Proceeding with these advanced activities prior to completing detailed feasibility analysis adds risk to our plan of operations and we may incur costs which might not otherwise have been incurred.
Wyoming - Great Divide/Red Desert Properties
Our Great Divide Basin properties comprise the Cyclone Rim and Eagle projects. The Cyclone Rim project consists of 23 federal mining claims. The Eagle property consists of 28 federal mining claims and an adjacent 640 acre Wyoming State Lease. Both projects are located in Sweetwater County, Wyoming.
During 2006, we entered into an option agreement with Black Range Minerals Limited (“Black Range”) on two of our exploration properties located within the Red Desert area of southwest Wyoming. Black Range carried out certain exploration activities on these properties during 2007 and 2008. During 2009, Black Range elected to cease further participation in the exploration and development of these properties and to forfeit its rights under the option agreement. Our Great Divide Basin properties are not actively under exploration and are therefore not considered material properties. These will not be considered a material property until more data and information on the project can be obtained.
Saskatchewan - Cochrane River Property
Cochrane River - Ownership Interest
Our Cochrane River property extends to the northeast of the northern portion of Wollaston Lake, in Northern Saskatchewan, Canada. Our Cochrane River property originally consisted of two Mineral Prospecting Permits (MPP 1237 and MPP 1238) with a combined total areal extent of 67,480 hectares (166,747 acres) which the Company acquired from Ubex Capital Inc. Ubex Capital Inc. is 100% owned by Dennis Higgs, one of our Directors. Ubex retains a royalty of 2% on the properties.
Saskatchewan mineral dispositions including permits are administered by SIR on behalf of the Crown of Canada in accordance with The Mineral Disposition Regulations, 1986. The holder of a permit is granted the exclusive right to explore for minerals (though not to extract, recover or produce minerals except for testing and scientific purposes) within the permit outline. A permit is valid for a period of two years and may not be renewed. While in compliance with the requirements of the regulations, a permit holder is entitled to convert any portion of a permit to mineral claims which may be held indefinitely. The two-year life on the permits ended on January 31, 2007. In late January and early February, 2007, a total of seven claims were staked within the boundaries of MPP 1237 and 1238, for a total of 28,012 hectares. The new claims have been recorded with the Saskatchewan mine recorder office in La Ronge. The staked area covered the most interesting “area of interest” as interpreted from the exploration programs conducted by Triex, as described below. A claim holder may subsequently convert his claim into a mineral lease which allows for commercial extraction of minerals.
Cochrane River -Present Condition of the Property and Proposed Exploration Program
There is presently no road access to the Cochrane River property.
During late 2005, we signed an agreement to joint venture our Cochrane River property with Triex Minerals Corporation. Triex completed detailed helicopter-borne geophysical surveys, follow-up ground exploration programs, an extensive lake sediment survey, ground-based resistively surveys, a lake sediment sample program, a pole-dipole array D.C. resistively survey, property-scale geological mapping of outcrops, and systematic geochemical sampling of boulders and glacial till. Total cumulative expenditures by Triex on the Cochrane River property over approximately two and one-half years were Cdn$1.23 million.
During 2008, our Cochrane River Saskatchewan Joint Venture was terminated with Triex forfeiting its right to earn an interest in the project. The properties are currently in good standing; two (2) claims expired on January 30, 2010 and the remaining five (5) claims will expire on January 30, 2011 unless further expenditures are incurred. We will continue to evaluate options for these properties, which include possible arrangements with other potential joint venture partners, further exploration by ourselves, or disposition.
The Saskatchewan properties are presently not considered material properties and will not be considered material properties until more data and information can be obtained.
Texas
In 2007 we completed an initial leasing program of approximately 7,200 acres in the State of Texas. Based on geologic reports and more than 90 historic drill holes, these 7,200 acres are believed to cover a northeast-southwest uranium mineralization trend.
Geologic study has been completed on the historic data we obtained from third parties. Plans for field work on these properties have been deferred due to our focus on our Wyoming properties. Our Texas project is presently not considered a material property and will not be considered a material property until more data and information on the project can be obtained.
2010 Property Expenditures
Our cash expenditures in 2010, excluding capital assets and major property acquisitions, are estimated to be $14 million, as follows:
These estimates are subject to change.
ITEM 3.