ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
Overview
We are an exploration stage company engaged in the acquisition, exploration and, if warranted, development of uranium properties. We are principally focused on the exploration of our properties in the Powder River Basin area of Wyoming. We are exploring these properties with the objective of assessing their viability for a commercial in-situ recovery (“ISR”) uranium mining project. We also own interests in properties in the Great Divide Basin area of Wyoming, in Texas and in Saskatchewan, Canada.
Our Powder River Basin properties include:
our 100% owned properties that totaled 33,972 acres as at December 31, 2008;
our 81% interest Arkose Mining Venture properties that totaled 90,210 acres as of December 31, 2008; and
additional properties that we have acquired in the Powder River Basin area.
We commenced acquiring uranium prospective mineral properties in 2005 with the objective of assembling properties that would enable us to develop a commercial ISR uranium mining project. We acquired properties in the Nichols Ranch area in December 2005. Following this acquisition, we continued staking additional claims in the immediate and surrounding areas. We acquired our 81% interest in the Arkose Mining Venture properties in January 2008. We are the operator of the Arkose Mining Venture under a venture agreement entered into with the sellers of the Arkose Mining Venture properties upon completion of this acquisition.
We completed a substantial exploration program on our Powder River Basin properties in 2008 which included 933 holes drilled, including six core holes, at an average depth of 687 feet, and for a total of 640,578 feet of drilling. Uranium trend and delineation holes were drilled utilizing five drill rigs and two electric log probing units. Our drilling program included:
165 holes drilled on our 100% owned properties, and
768 holes drilled on our Arkose Mining Venture properties.
The purpose of the 2008 drilling project was to find previously unknown or little-known uranium mineralization trends and to delineate known trends, which would provide data for permitting and eventual production operations in favorably identified areas. During the 2008 drilling program, approximately 19 miles of uranium roll front trends were investigated. Approximately 7 miles of the 19 miles of trends had favorable uranium mineralization. Uranium mineralization ranged from less than 0.01% eU3O8 to 2.65% eU3O8. Approximately 34.5% of the 933 holes drilled during 2008 met or exceeded our minimum cut-off grade of 0.03% eU3O8.
On our 100% owned properties, we confirmed both previously known trends and delineated a new trend at east North Butte. On the Arkose Mining Venture properties, we believe the mineralization observed at South Doughstick is favourable and warrants further exploration. As a result, we have commissioned the preparation of a technical report on this property. The South Doughstick trend is the western limb extension of our Nichols Ranch resource area and is only two miles south of our proposed processing plant site for the Nichols Ranch ISR Project.
Concurrent with our exploration programs, we have commenced the licensing and permitting process for a commercial ISR project that we refer to as the Nichols Ranch Uranium ISR Project. The Nichols Ranch Uranium ISR Project would be located on properties that comprise our Nichols Ranch and Hank property units. Because of the long lead times for environmental permitting of mining operations in North America, we filed applications to the State of Wyoming (WDEQ) and the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) for permits to conduct ISR mining of uranium for the Nichols Ranch Uranium ISR Project in December 2007. However, we caution investors that we have not at this stage completed any comprehensive feasibility studies on these properties demonstrating that development of any of the properties is commercially warranted. Proceeding with these advanced activities prior to completing
detailed feasibility analysis adds risk to our plan of operations and we may incur costs which might not otherwise have been incurred.
Our plan of operations during 2009 is to:
continue with our exploration of our Powder River Basin Properties as detailed below under “2009 Exploration Program”; and
continue with our permitting and mine planning efforts in connection with the Nichols Ranch ISR Project, as detailed below under “Nichols Ranch ISR Project”.
We have sufficient financing to continue our exploration and permitting and planning activities over the next twelve months. However, we will require additional financing in order to pursue full development of our Nichols Ranch ISR Project. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary financing to conduct mining activities, if mining is warranted.
We have optioned our uranium properties in the Great Divide Basin area of Wyoming to Black Range Minerals. Exploration of our Great Divide Basin properties is undertaken by Black Range Minerals under the option agreement. We plan to continue to monitor exploration efforts undertaken by Black Range Minerals on these properties. Our Great Divide Basin properties are presently not material to our business operations.
In 2008 we also terminated our Saskatchewan joint venture and sold all of our Mongolian interests. Our Saskatchewan properties are being assessed for further exploration, joint venture or sale. Our Saskatchewan properties are presently not material to our business operations.
All of our projects are at the exploration stage and there can be no assurance that a commercially viable mineral deposit, or reserve, exists on any of our properties until appropriate exploratory work is done and a comprehensive evaluation based on such work concludes legal and economic feasibility. Further exploration will be required before a final evaluation as to the economic, technical and legal feasibility of mining of any of our properties is determined. There is no assurance that further exploration will result in a final evaluation that a commercially viable mineral deposit exists on any of our mineral properties.
Operations
Our exploration program in the Wyoming Powder River Basin is directed by Mr. Kurtis Brown, Vice-President Exploration and supervised by Mr. George Hartman, our Executive Vice-President and Chief Operating Officer. We engage contractors to carry out our exploration programs under Mr. Brown’s supervision. Contractors that we plan to engage include project geologists, drilling companies and geophysical logging companies, each according to the specific exploration program on each property.
Our management will make determinations as to whether to proceed with the additional exploration of our Wyoming Powder River Basin mineral properties based on the results of the preliminary exploration that we undertake. In completing these determinations, we will make an assessment as to whether the results of the exploration are sufficiently positive for us to proceed with more advanced exploration.
Wyoming Properties
We have several properties in two distinct geographical areas known as the Great Divide and Powder River Basins of Wyoming as shown in the map below:
We plan to maintain, explore and, if warranted, develop our properties in the Powder River Basin area of Wyoming. We have optioned our uranium properties in the Great Divide Basin area of Wyoming to Black Range Minerals.
Powder River Basin Properties
As of December 31, 2008, our Powder River Basin properties include both our 100% owned properties and those properties included within the Arkose Mining Venture. These principal properties comprise in total approximately 124,181 acres and consist of a combination of federal mining claims, state mineral leases and private fee mineral leases. We have also acquired additional properties
in the Powder River Basin area as discussed below under “Other Powder River Basin Projects”.
A map showing the location of our 100% owned Powder River Basin and Arkose Mining Venture properties is provided below:
An additional map showing the location of our properties within the general Powder Basin property area and our key property units is presented below:
Ownership Interests
Our ownership interests in the properties within the Powder River Basin are summarized as follows:
100% Owned Properties
Our 100% owned properties are comprised of unpatented lode mining claims, state leases and fee (private) mineral leases, as summarized as follows:
(1) Subject to royalties, as discussed further below.
These 100% owned properties in the Powder River Basin include the following core property units:
We have been acquiring properties in the Powder River Basin area since 2005. Our material 100% interest property acquisitions in this area include the following acquisitions:
We acquired a 100% interest in 10 mining claims located in the Powder River Basin area pursuant to an option agreement dated November 18, 2005 for total consideration of $250,000.
We entered into an option agreement with Excalibur Industries dated December 9, 2005 to acquire a 100% interest in 44 mining claims within six mineral properties located in the Powder River Basin area, Wyoming. We were granted the right to earn a 100% interest in the properties by incurring $750,000 in exploration costs within a three-year period and paying an advance royalty of $250,000. We incurred the required $750,000 in exploration costs and paid the advance royalty of $250,000 in order to earn a 100% interest in these claims. Our 100% ownership interest is subject to a royalty fee of between 6% and 8%, as discussed further below.
Subsequent to our December 2005 agreement with Excalibur Industries we then expanded our Powder River Basin properties by staking additional claims in the immediate and surrounding areas.
In February 2007, we acquired the West North-Butte, North Rolling Pin and C-line projects for $3,120,000.
During 2007 and 2008 we had technical reports prepared to independently address the geology and uranium mineralization within our mineral holdings comprising the Nichols Ranch Uranium Project, the Hank Unit Property, the Arkose Mining Venture project and the West North-Butte satellite properties. These technical reports were prepared in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 requirements, as described in further detail below under “NI 43-101 Technical Reports”.
We continue to look for more prospective lands in the Powder River Basin and as a result may locate, purchase or lease additional unpatented lode mining claims; and or purchase or lease additional fee mineral (private) lands during the next twelve months, however there is no assurance any additional properties will be acquired.
Arkose Mining Venture
The Arkose Mining Venture properties are comprised of unpatented mineral lode claims, state leases and fee (private) mineral leases, as summarized as follows:
(1) Subject to royalties, as discussed further below.
We completed the acquisition of an undivided 81% interest in the Arkose Mining Venture mineral properties on January 15, 2008. This acquisition was completed pursuant to a purchase and sale agreement with mining venture previously announced on September 19, 2007 between Uranerz, and NAMMCO, Steven C. Kirkwood, Robert W. Kirkwood and Stephen L. Payne (collectively, the “NAMMCO Sellers”). The total purchase price that we paid to acquire this 81% interest in the Arkose Mining Venture included cash of $5,757,000 and 5,750,000 shares of our common stock issued to the NAMMCO Sellers. The NAMMCO Sellers entered into a voting agreement with us effective January 15, 2008 pursuant to which each of such sellers granted to our management or our appointed agent the right to vote fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding and currently held shares issued as consideration for the acquisition, whether held directly or indirectly by such sellers, for a period of three (3) years following the date of the issuance.
In connection with our acquisition of the 81% interest in the Arkose Mining Venture, we entered into a venture agreement dated as of January 15, 2008 (the “ Venture Agreement”) with United Nuclear, LLC (“United Nuclear”), a limited liability company wholly owned by the NAMMCO Sellers and their designee under the purchase and sale agreement. Under the Venture Agreement, we have agreed that United Nuclear will hold (and contribute to) its nineteen percent (19%) working interest in the Arkose Mining Venture, and we will operate and be the manager of the Arkose Mining Venture under the name “Arkose Mining Venture”. We and United Nuclear have agreed to contribute funds to programs and budgets approved under the Arkose Mining Venture in accordance with our respective interests in the Venture.
The Venture Agreement provides that we, as manager, will have management and control over operations carried out by the Venture. We are obligated to present proposed programs and budgets to the management committee of the venture on an annual basis. The proposed programs and budgets may include exploration programs, pre-feasibility studies, feasibility studies, development, mining, and expansion or modification operation plans. Proposed programs and budgets are reviewed by the management committee appointed under the Venture which will include at least two members appointed by each of us and United Nuclear. Unless otherwise provided in the Venture Agreement, the vote of the participant with a participating interest greater than 50% will determine decisions of the management committee. A participant may elect to participate in an approved program and budget either (i) in proportion to the participant’s respective interest in the Venture, or (ii) not at all. In the event that a participant elects not to participate in a program and budget, then its participating interest in the Venture Agreement is subject to recalculation in accordance with the Venture Agreement to reflect the decision not to participate.
This overview of the Venture Agreement does not provide a full discussion of all terms and conditions of the Venture Agreement. Investors are encouraged to read the entire copy of the Venture Agreement which was filed with the SEC as an exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 22, 2008.
The Arkose Mining Venture includes the following property units on which we have conducted exploration:
South Doughstick
Cedar Canyon
East Buck
South Collins Draw
Sand Rock
Little Butte
Other Powder River Basin Projects
Through a combination of claim staking, purchasing, and leasing we also have acquired interests in several projects that lie within the Powder River Basin but outside of the project areas discussed above. These properties include the Verna Ann, Niles Ranch, North Reno Creek, and South Reno Creek projects. In general, these projects are located in sandstone basins of Cretaceous or Tertiary age with known uranium mineralization. However, due to our focused approach we have not yet initiated exploration work on these projects. Additional leasing in the North Reno Creek Project has prompted us to look into acquiring past exploration and development data for this area in an attempt to support a future National Instrument 43-101 report. If warranted, environmental base line work may begin thereafter with the goal of submitting an environmental permit application for ISR facilities as soon as possible.
NI 43-101 Technical Reports
We have obtained technical reports on the following material properties:
Name of Report Authors of Technical Report Date of Report
Nichols Ranch Uranium Project, Douglas Beahm, PE, PG October 26, 2007
Campbell and Johnson Counties, Andrew Anderson, PE, PG
Wyoming, U.S.A.
BRS Inc.
Technical Report on the Arkose TREC, Inc., 341 East “E” February 27, 2008
Mining Venture Project, Campbell Street, Suite 200, Casper
and Johnson Counties, Wyoming, Wyoming 82601
U.S.A. Don R. Woody, P.G, Woody
Enterprises, 9005 Sypes
Canyon Road, Bozeman,
Montana 58715
Technical Report - The Hank Unit TREC, Inc., 341 East “E” May 1, 2008
Property, Campbell Country, Street, Suite 200, Casper
Wyoming, U.S.A. Wyoming 82601
Don R. Woody, P.G, Woody
Enterprises, 9005 Sypes
Canyon Road, Bozeman,
Montana 58715
Preliminary Assessment - Nichols TREC, Inc., 341 East “E” July 25, 2008
Ranch Uranium In-Situ Recovery Street, Suite 200, Casper
Project, Powder River Basin, Wyoming 82601
Wyoming, U.S.A
Technical Report - West North- Don R. Woody, P.G, Woody December 9, 2008
Butte Satellite Properties, Enterprises, 9005 Sypes
Campbell County, Wyoming, Canyon Road, Bozeman,
U.S.A. Montana 58715
Cautionary Note to United States Investors
As a company listed on the TSX, we are required by Canadian law to provide disclosure in accordance with Canadian Securities Administrators’ National Instrument 43-101 - Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects (“NI 43-101”). This required disclosure includes the preparation and filing of technical reports on our material mineral properties with Canadian securities commissions under NI 43-101. These technical reports are furnished by us to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on Form 8-K in order to satisfy our “public disclosure” obligations under SEC Regulation FD and are not filed with the SEC. U.S. reporting requirements for disclosure of mineral properties, including disclosure required in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are governed by the Industry Guide 7 ("SEC Guide 7") of the SEC. The standards of disclosure of mineral properties under NI 43-101 and SEC Guide 7 are substantially different. All mineral resources disclosed in our NI 43-101 technical reports referenced herein have been estimated in accordance with the definition standards on mineral resources and mineral reserves of the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum referred to in National Instrument 43-101, commonly referred to as "NI 43-101". The terms "mineral reserve", "proven mineral reserve" and "probable mineral reserve" are Canadian mining terms as defined in accordance with NI 43-101. These definitions differ from the definitions in SEC Guide 7. Under SEC Guide 7 standards, a "final" or "bankable" feasibility study is required to report reserves, the three-year historical average price is used in any reserve or cash flow analysis to designate reserves and the primary environmental analysis or report must be filed with the appropriate governmental authority.
The NI 43-101 technical reports referenced herein use the terms "mineral resource," "measured mineral resource," "indicated mineral resource" and "inferred mineral resource". We advise investors that these terms are defined in and required to be disclosed by NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined terms under SEC Guide 7 and are normally not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into SEC Guide 7 reserves. "Inferred mineral resources" have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of feasibility or pre-feasibility studies, except in rare cases. Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of any mineral resource exists or is economically or legally mineable. Disclosure of "contained pounds" in a resource is permitted disclosure under Canadian regulations; however, the SEC normally only permits issuers to report mineralization that does not constitute "reserves" by SEC standards as in-place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures.
The following information regarding our ownership interests in our material properties, their geology and their exploration history is taken from these technical reports.
Hank Unit and Nichols Ranch Unit
Within the Nichols Ranch Unit we have 35 unpatented lode mining claims, two fee surface and mineral leases, and one surface use agreement. There is an overriding royalty interest in favor of Excalibur Industries on all federal unpatented lode mining claims that were acquired by us from Excalibur Industries. Many of the unpatented lode mining claims located at the Hank Unit and at the Nichols Ranch Unit have an associated gross royalty payable to Excalibur Industries of 6 percent when the spot price of uranium is less than $45.00 per pound and of 8 percent if the uranium spot price is $45.00 per pound or
higher. In addition, there is a portion of the Nichols Ranch Unit that includes private (fee) mineral that is subject to the above Excalibur Industries royalty, plus an additional royalty payable to the fee mineral owner under the fee leases (equaling a 12 percent or 16 percent royalty depending upon the spot price of uranium).
Within the Hank Unit, we have 63 unpatented lode mining claims, two fee surface and mineral leases, and one surface use agreement. The Hank Unit permit boundary encompasses approximately 2,250 acres. Within the permit boundary, we have the right to mine approximately 1,200 acres of mineral rights. Of the 63 unpatented lode mining claims comprising the Hank Unit, 53 of the claims have a royalty interest burden, payable to Excalibur Industries, of six or eight percent depending on the selling price of uranium. This royalty interest is based on uranium produced from these claims.
West North- Butte Satellite Properties
The West North-Butte property covers approximately 2,360 acres of land and is comprised of 118 unpatented lode mining claims and one surface use agreement, of which 6 unpatented lode mining claims are subject to a royalty interest burden, payable to Excalibur Industries, of six or eight percent depending on the price of uranium.
The East North Butte property covers approximately 325 acres of land and is comprised of 17 unpatented lode mining claims and one surface use agreement. None of the claims in the East North Butte property are subject to a royalty.
The Willow Creek property covers approximately 220 acres of land and is comprised of 11 unpatented lode mining claims and one surface use agreement, all of which unpatented lode mining claims are subject to a royalty interest burden, payable to Excalibur Industries, of six or eight percent depending on the price of uranium.
Arkose Mining Venture
The Arkose Mining Venture properties consists of unpatented lode mining claims, fee mineral leases, and state mineral leases. The land surface consists of private, federal and state lands. There are 4,242 unpatented lode mining claims included in the Arkose Property which comprise 69,383 acres and 67 fee mineral leases and 3 state leases included in the Arkose Property which comprise 20,826 acres. All of the unpatented lode mining claims are owned by us subject to the beneficial interests of the participants in the Arkose Mining Venture.
Of the 4,242 unpatented lode mining claims, 1,218 unpatented lode mining claims have an overriding royalty interest burden of 0.25% . This overriding royalty interest is based on production of uranium on these claims.
The title of the Arkose Mining Venture to the leased property included in the Arkose Property is a leasehold interest subject to the various terms as set forth in the applicable leases (the “Arkose Leases”). The Arkose Leases are mineral leases only and the Arkose Mining Venture will be required to obtain surface use`agreements with the various surface owners of said lands prior to commencing any activities. The majority of the Arkose Leases (other than the three state leases, which are paid annually) are paid up for either five or ten years. The five-year paid-up leases have an option to extend for a second five-year term, and for so long thereafter as the property under the lease is in production. The Arkose Leases only cover uranium and other fissionable minerals. Commingling of ores from adjacent lands is allowable under the fee mineral leases.
Royalties under the fee mineral leases are variable and can range from a flat 4% on uranium production to a sliding scale of 2-10% with different intermediate break points with the 10% rate applying to sales prices of $100 per pound of uranium and greater.
Unpatented Lode Mining Claims
Our unpatented lode mining claims, including those subject to the Arkose Mining Venture, are located on minerals owned by the federal government and open to location, with the surface being owned either by the federal government or private individuals. In addition, the unpatented lode mining claims are recorded in the appropriate county and filed with the state office of the Bureau of Land Management (the “BLM”).
The unpatented lode claims do not have an expiration date. However, affidavits must be filed annually with the BLM and respective county recorder’s offices in order to maintain the claims’ validity. All of the unpatented lode claims have annual filing requirements ($125 per claim) with the BLM, to be paid on or before September 1 of each year.
In addition, most of the above-mentioned unpatented lode claims are located on Stock Raising Homestead land where the U.S. government has issued a patent for the surface to an individual and reserved the minerals to the U.S. government subject to the location rights by claimants as set forth in the 1872 Mining Law.
Mining Leases
Our leasehold interests within our 100% owned properties are subject to the various terms as set forth in the applicable leases. The state leases and leases on fee mineral lands usually have annual payments, royalty obligations, and the term of the leases vary, but for the most part can be extended by production. The fee surface and mineral leases apply only to uranium and other fissionable minerals and typically have a 10-year term with the right to extend the leases with production. Commingling of production from adjacent lands is allowable under the fee mineral leases.
Surface Rights
The Powder River Basin area has surface rights under applicable laws that allow for exploration disturbance, road construction and facility siting. The claimant must first notify the surface owner of its intention to locate unpatented lode mining claims on the owner’s surface and then try and reach an agreement with the surface owner to pay for damages caused by the claimant’s operations. If an agreement cannot be reached, the claimant may post a bond with the Bureau of Land Management to cover the amount of the damages caused by the claimant’s operations.
We have negotiated surface use agreements with various surface owners covering a majority of our project areas. We are currently negotiating with various surface owners to enter into surface agreements covering the balance of the unpatented lode claims not already covered by surface use agreements. The surface use agreements typically provide for reimbursement to the surface owner of actual damages resulting from our operations.
Taxes and Fees
We will be required to pay severance tax and ad valorem tax to the State of Wyoming, in addition to various maintenance, land impact and access fees as well as other consideration to surface holders.
Location and Access; Topography, Elevation and Vegetation; Climate
The Powder River Basin area is located approximately 50 miles southwest of Gillette, Wyoming and 100 miles northeast of Casper, Wyoming. The area is accessed from State Highway 50 from the east or State Highway 387 from the south, and various internal gravel surface county and private roads. Casper is on Interstate 25, approximately one hour by air from either Denver, Colorado or Salt Lake City, Utah.
Our Powder River Basin properties are located in portions of Campbell and Johnson Counties, Wyoming, U.S.A., and are approximately 60 air miles northeast of Casper, Wyoming. The Powder River Basin properties cover lands in various sections in the Townships 41 to 44 North and Ranges 74 to 78 West.
The center of our properties (centered east-west) is approximately eight miles west of the junction of Wyoming Highways 50 and 387. The properties are accessible via two-wheel drive on existing county and/or private gravel and dirt roads. Accessibility for drilling at this time appears acceptable with the exception of very wet or snowy ground surface conditions. Road development and improvements may be required at a later time in order to support future development, if warranted, of well fields and processing facilities.
The Powder River Basin properties are located within the Wyoming Basin physiographic province in the central portion of the Powder River Basin, within the Pumpkin Buttes Mining District. The Pumpkin Buttes are a series of small buttes rising several hundred feet above the surrounding plains. Portions of the Powder River Basin properties are located east, west and south of these buttes. The cap rocks on top of the buttes are erosional remnants of the Tertiary White River Formation that is believed to have overlain the majority of the Powder River Basin. The volcanic tuffs in the White River Formation have been cited as the source of uranium in this basin.
The area in which the Powder River Basin properties is located is a low lying plain, and elevations range from approximately 4390 feet (1440 meters) in the northwest to approximately 5,450 feet (1,790 meters) in the south east. Historically and currently the land is used for livestock and wildlife grazing. Vegetation is characteristically sagebrush grassland with some pines on elevated terrain and some deciduous trees within drainages.
The climate is semi-arid and receives an annual precipitation of approximately 9.4 inches, the most falling in the form of late autumnal to early spring snows. The summer months are usually hot, dry and clear except for infrequent heavy rains. Cold, wind and snow/blizzards can make winter exploration work in this area difficult but not impossible. The weather may limit the time periods for capital construction but should not have any significant adverse impacts on the operation of an ISR facility.
Geology
Our Powder River Basin properties encompass approximately 124,182 acres, and potential target mineralized zones are expected to occur throughout the properties. The potential target mineralization within the Powder River Basin properties is believed to be alteration-reduction trends hosted in the Eocene age channel sands that lie at depths of approximately 300 to 1,100 feet from the surface. Roll front deposits of uranium mineralized material are anticipated to occur within these properties. An alteration reduction trend is a natural chemical boundary trend line in a sandstone aquifer where reduced (non-oxidized) sand is in contact with altered (oxidized) sand. Uranium mineralization may be found along the trend line.
Our Powder River Basin properties contain alteration-reduction trends hosted in Eocene age channel sands. Alteration-reduction trends in the Pumpkin Buttes Mining District are typically composed of multiple, stacked roll front deposits that often contain associated uranium mineralization. A stacked role front is a type of uranium occurrence found in thick sandstone where a number of mineralization trends are stacked on top of each other. Uranium mineralization within and adjacent to the Powder River Basin properties are found in the Eocene Wasatch Formation (Wasatch). The Wasatch is a fluvial deposit composed of arkosic sandstones that are typically 25% or more feldspar grains and indicates a source rock where chemical weathering was not extreme and the sediments have not been transported far. A fluvial deposit is a deposit of uranium mineralization found in sandstones that originated from sediments laid down by streams and rivers. The arkosic sandstone is a type of sandstone that contains a high percentage of feldspar grains. The coarse grain size and relatively good sorting of this sediment implies water transportation, probably in a braided river system. The Wasatch formation is interlayed with sandstones, claystones, siltstones, carbonaceous shale, and thin coal seams that overlies the Paleocene Fort Union Formation, another fluvial sedimentary unit.
Exploration History
Our Powder River Basin properties are located within the Pumpkin Buttes Mining District which was the first commercial uranium production district in Wyoming. Uranium was first discovered in the Pumpkin Buttes in 1951. Intermittent production from some 55 small mines through 1967 produced 36,737 tons of ore containing 208,143 pounds of uranium. This early mining focused on shallow oxidized ores exploited by small open pit mines. The ore was generally transported to the Atomic Energy Commission buying station in Edgemont, South Dakota. Modern mining in the district has focused on deeper reduced ores. Areva’s Christensen Ranch and Irigaray ISR uranium mining areas and processing facilities are located within the Pumpkin Buttes Mining District, approximately 10 and 16 air miles, respectively, from the Arkose Property. These mines have completed successful ISR mining and aquifer restoration in the Wasatch formation.
These properties were originally part of a large exploration area encompassing Townships 33 through 50 North of Ranges 69 through 79 West, on the 6th principal meridian. In 1966, Mountain West Mines Inc. (MWM, now Excalibur Industries) began a successful drilling exploration program in a portion of this area. In 1967, MWM entered into an agreement with Cleveland-Cliffs Iron Company (CCI) for further exploration and option if suitable resources were found. CCI exercised its option in 1976 with plans to begin underground mining operations in the vicinity of North Butte. Changing economic conditions and the development of ISR mining technology reportedly ended much of CCI’s interest in the area. By the late 1980s they began selling select properties or allowing them to revert back to the federal government.
In addition to CCI, other uranium exploration companies during the last forty years have controlled property either within or near our Powder River Basin properties. These included Kerr McGee, Conoco, Texaco, American Nuclear, Tennessee Valley Authority and Uranerz U.S.A., Inc. Areva NC (via subsidiary Cogema Resources Inc. (“Cogema”) and Power Resources Inc. (a subsidiary of Cameco Corporation) have retained portions of their original land positions in the area. The mining claims and leases originally controlled by most of these companies were let go over the years due to market conditions. These property abandonments continued into 2004.
As a result of this history of exploration and our own exploration efforts, there is available to us for our exploration of the Powder River Basin properties published and unpublished mineral trend projections, mineral resource summaries and historic and current mineral resource reports developed by us or other operators from these properties or adjacent mineral properties, as applicable. In addition, there are
publicly available drill results from approximately 1,250 coal bed methane (CBM) exploration/production wells in the region of the Arkose Mining Venture properties, which are discussed further below.
Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project
Between 1968 and 1980 CCI drilled 117 holes and installed 3 water wells on the Nichols Ranch property. Texas Eastern Nuclear Inc. in 1985 completed limited drilling and exploration on the property and in early 1990s Rio Algom Co. also completed limited drilling in the area.
Hank Unit
Between 1968 and 1980, CCI drilled 197 holes within the Hank Unit. In 1985, Texas Eastern Nuclear, Inc. completed limited drilling and exploration on the property (approximately 28 borings). In the early 1990s, Kerr McGee Corporation and Rio Algom Mining Corporation also completed limited drilling in the area.
We drilled 61 exploratory holes and seven wells within the Hank Unit during 2006 and 2007. We drilled 257 exploration holes, including three core holes, and three water wells at Nichols Ranch during 2006 and 2007.
West North- Butte Satellite Properties
Between 1968 and 1985, CCI drilled approximately 380 exploratory holes with the satellite properties. From 1983 to 1985, Texas Eastern Nuclear drilled approximately 12 exploratory holes in the satellite properties and from approximately 1990 to 1992 Rio Algom Mining Corporation drilled approximately 5 exploratory holes. In 2006, we completed an acquisition of the satellite properties, and in 2007 and 2008, drilled approximately 127 exploratory holes.
Arkose Mining Venture
It is estimated that over 4,000 historic uranium exploration holes may have been drilled within the Arkose Property. This exploration was conducted by numerous exploration companies from the 1960s through the 1990s. Although this historic exploration data are known to exist, obtaining information on all but a handful (less than 50) of specific drill hole data, such as gamma, resistivity, and lithology logs, was not possible. Coal bed methane (“CBM”) exploration/production wells were drilled by numerous companies for development of coal bed methane resources in the area. A total of approximately 1,250 CBM exploration/production wells have been drilled on or immediately adjacent to the Arkose Property. Most of this drilling was completed from 1,200 to 2,000 feet deep and is on-going. CBM exploration/production wells and their associated gamma logs are all drilled and logged through the uranium mineralization-bearing sand horizons. Utilizing the available uranium drill data and the CBM drill data base, we had a technical report prepared in February 2008 to independently address the geology and potential uranium mineralization within our mineral holdings on the Arkose Mining Venture. This technical report was prepared in accordance with Canadian National Instrument 43-101 requirements, as discussed above under “NI 43-101 Technical Reports”.
The NAMMCO Sellers commenced acquiring rights to the properties comprising the Arkose Property in 2005, and continued to do so through 2006 and 2007. On January 15, 2008, we completed the acquisition of an undivided 81% percent interest in the Arkose Property and formed the Arkose Mining Venture with the vendors of these properties, the NAMMCO Sellers, as described in greater detail above under “Arkose Mining Venture”.
Local Resources and Properties Infrastructure
Infrastructure at the site of the Powder River Basin properties is dominantly related to local oil, gas, and CBM exploration and development. Mineralized locations will affect future siting of well fields and processing facilities. Generally, the proximity of the Powder River Basin properties to paved roads will be beneficial with respect to transportation of equipment, supplies, personnel and product to and from the properties. Power transmission lines are located on or near parts of the Powder River Basin properties. Based upon discussions with the local electrical service provider, overhead power is currently committed but additional power for future projects can be made available. Water is available from wells developed at planned facility locations (potable) and water for in-situ recovery (“ISR”) operations, if necessary, will come from the operation itself, i.e. the extracted groundwater. Therefore, the basic infrastructure (power, water and transportation) required to support an ISR mining operation is located within reasonable proximity of the Powder River Basin properties.
Personnel required for exploration, construction and operation at the Powder River Basin properties are expected to come from Gillette, Wright, Buffalo and Casper, Wyoming.
Typical ISR mining operations also require a disposal well for limited quantities of fluids that cannot be returned to the production aquifers. Commonly, oil and gas wells within aquifers that have been or can be condemned for public use, are utilized for such purposes. Oil and gas wells, both abandoned and producing, are located in the immediate vicinity of the properties.
Our Powder River Basin properties are undeveloped and do not contain any open-pit or underground mines. There is no plant or mining equipment located on any of our Wyoming mineral properties. There are no pre-existing mineral processing facilities or related wastes on the property.
Exploration Completed by Uranerz
2006 and 2007 Exploration Programs
We drilled a total of 78 rotary drill holes on the Hank, Nichols Ranch, and Doughstick projects during 2006, with 46 holes demonstrating uranium mineralization.
During 2006 environmental permitting activities also continued at the Hank and Nichols Ranch projects with the completion of a total of five hydrogeologic test wells, and the drilling of six core holes. The core was submitted for laboratory testing to support radiation permitting requirements as well as to define resource disequilibrium attributes.
From February 19 to December 20, 2007, we drilled a total of 486 uranium trend delineation holes and eight hydrologic sampling wells on our 100%-owned properties located in the central Powder River Basin, utilizing as many as three drill rigs and one electric log probing unit. This represents a total of approximately 300,000 feet of drilling with an average depth of 617 feet per hole.
A total of 214 delineation holes were drilled on Nichols Ranch in 2007. In the final months of the 2007 drilling program, we focused our exploration efforts on our West North-Butte, Collins Draw, Hank and Nichols Ranch properties to facilitate sub-surface geologic mapping with cross sections and to refine previous geologic models delineating known trends of uranium mineralization.
2008 Exploration Program
In 2008 we were engaged in drilling exploration efforts on both our 100% owned Powder River Basin properties, and on the Arkose Mining Venture properties. The purpose of the drilling project was to find previously unknown or little-known uranium mineralization trends and to delineate known trends, which would provide data for permitting and eventual production operations in favorably identified areas. During the 2008 drilling program, approximately 19 miles of uranium roll front trends were investigated. Approximately 7 miles of the 19 miles of trends had favorable uranium mineralization. Uranium mineralization ranged from <0.01% eU3O8 to 2.65% eU3O8. A cut-off grade of 0.03% eU3O8 wasestablished for the Uranerz and Arkose properties. Approximately 34.5% of the 933 holes drilled during 2008 met or exceeded the minimum cut-off grade.
From March 6, 2008 to June 30, 2008, we, as operator of the Arkose Mining Venture, drilled a total of 266 uranium trend exploration and delineation holes utilizing up to five drill rigs and two electric log probing units. This drilling, a total of approximately 186,925 feet with an average depth of 703 feet per hole, was conducted on four previously identified exploration targets in areas we had identified as East Buck, South Collins Draw, Sand Rock, and Little Butte. This initial phase of the 2008 Arkose drilling program was designed, based in part on available historical data, with a primary objective of identifying and delineating potentially significant trends of uranium roll front mineralization on the property, and to provide further data on these potential future development sites for purposes of reporting, and possible permitting and mining operations in favorably identified areas. To June 30, 2008, approximately 7.5 miles of uranium roll front trends had been investigated, with approximately 2.5 miles of these trends showing potentially favorable uranium mineralization.
From July 1, 2008 to September 30, 2008 we drilled 405 uranium delineation holes utilizing five drill rigs and two electric log probing units. A total of 141 holes were drilled on our 100% owned properties at East-North Butte, Willow Creek, Hank, North Rolling Pin and Doughstick. Our drilling on the Arkose Mining Venture properties totalled 264 holes, including two core holes, in the Little Butte and South Doughstick target areas. The combined effort for all properties during this period amounted to approximately 281,000 feet of drilling with an average depth of 694 feet per hole. Approximately 7.0 miles of uranium roll front trends were investigated confirming approximately 3.0 miles of historic trends or areas that showed new potentially favorable uranium mineralization.
From October 1, 2008 though December 12, 2008 when field drilling operations ceased, we had drilled 262 exploration holes. On our 100% owned properties, 24 holes were finished at Willow Creek and North Rolling Pin. On the Arkose Mining Venture properties, 238 holes were drilled at South Doughstick, Cedar Canyon, and Little Butte. The footage drilled for this period was 172,653 feet on the combined properties at an average depth of 659 feet, including four core holes. Approximately 4.5 miles of uranium rolls fronts were investigated with 2.5 miles of trends showing potentially favorable uranium mineralization.
For the 2008 drilling season, March 6, 2008 through December 12, 2008 a total of 933 exploration and delineation holes were completed. The average depth per hole was 687 feet and a total of 640,578 feet of drilling. Breakout of the drilling was 165 holes on our 100% owned properties and 768 holes on Arkose Mining Venture properties. During 2008, approximately 19 miles of uranium roll front trends were investigated. Approximately 7 miles of the 19 miles of trends had favorable uranium mineralization.
We determined based on the results of this drilling program to complete a NI 43-101 technical report on the South Doughstick property. We anticipate receiving this technical report in the first half of 2009.
During 2008 no new exploration work was undertaken in the immediate Nichols Ranch proposed mine area.
In December 2008 we received an independent NI 43-101 technical report for the nearby West North-Butte Satellite Properties. A copy of this technical report was filed on SEDAR on December 11, 2008 and a copy furnished to the SEC on December 11, 2008.
2009 Exploration Program
We plan to complete delineation drilling for Nichols Ranch, North Nichols Ranch, North Rolling Pin and other unspecified areas in the Nichols Ranch ISR area during 2009. We also plan on undertaking further exploration drilling in 2009 for the Arkose properties. The mineralization trends discovered in 2008 will be followed up in areas not drilled previously at South Doughstick, Cedar Canyon, and Little Butte. New targets may also be investigated in the northwest and northeast parts of the property.
In order to conduct exploratory drilling of the property, we will be required to obtain permits (Drilling Notification) from the State of Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality, Land Quality Division (WDEQ/LQD).
Nichols Ranch ISR Project
Preliminary Assessment
We obtained a preliminary assessment or scoping study of the Nichols Ranch Uranium In-Situ Recovery Project (Project) in July 2008. The preliminary assessment was prepared for us in accordance with the guidelines set forth under NI 43-101 and the Standards and Guidelines of the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum incorporated by reference therein for the submission of technical reports on mining properties. The purpose of the assessment was to perform a preliminary evaluation of the technical and economic viability of the Project using the most current scientific, engineering and cost information available. The preliminary assessment was prepared to support our development and licensing strategy for our Nichols Ranch and Hank properties. Investors are cautioned that this assessment was preliminary in nature and is not based on capital and operating costs estimates that are sufficiently refined to support a feasibility study evaluating the project.
The assessment analyzed the planned development of a commercial uranium in-situ recovery (ISR) and processing operation. The evaluation uses available design information to develop capital and operating cost estimates for the proposed well fields, processing plants, infrastructure and associated facilities. Capital and operating cost estimates were provided in the preliminary assessment along with an economic analysis based on these costs and projected revenue from the recovery and sale of uranium (U3O8).
Location of the Nichols Ranch ISR Project
The Nichols Ranch ISR Project would be on the properties comprising our Nichols Ranch ISR main unit and our Hank ISR satellite unit, as illustrated below:
Targeted Mineralization
The targeted mineralized zones for the Nichols Ranch Unit in the A sand unit are 300 to 700 feet below the surface and occur in two long narrow trends meeting at the nose. The nose is in the northwest corner of the deposit where the two narrow trends meet to form the tip of the geochemical front. The Hank Unit’s two targeted mineralized zones in the F Sand unit range from 200 to 600 feet below the ground surface depending on the topography and changes in the formation elevation and stratigraphic horizon.
Mining Plan
In order to mine the uranium resources at the Project, infrastructure, including four well fields, a central processing plant (the “Nichols Ranch CPP”) and a satellite ion exchange (IX) plant (the “Hank Satellite Facility”) are being designed and will need to be constructed. Well fields are designated areas above the mineralized zone that are sized to achieve the desired production goals. The piping/well system will inject water-leaching solution into the mineralized zone and recover the uranium-enriched water after it has flowed through the mineralization. The mineralized zone is the geological sandstone unit where the recovery solutions are injected and recovered in an in-situ recovery well field, and it is bounded between impermeable aquitards. Production areas are the individual areas that will be mined in the well field. The injection and recovery wells are completed in the mineralized zone intervals of the production sand.
We anticipate the patterns for the injection and recovery wells to follow the conventional five-spot pattern. Depending on the mineralized zone shape, seven spot or line drive patterns may be used in some locations. A typical five spot pattern contains four injections wells and one recovery well. The dimensions of the pattern vary depending on the mineralized zone, but the injection wells will likely be between 50 to 150 feet apart. In order to effectively recover the uranium and also to complete the groundwater restoration, the wells will be completed so that they can be used as either injection or recovery wells. During mining operations, a slightly greater volume of water will be recovered from the mineralized zone aquifer than injected in order to create a cone of depression or a flow gradient towards the recovery wells.
The Nichols Ranch Unit is anticipated to include the Nichols Ranch CPP and two production areas, NR-1 and NR-2. As the productivity or solution grade (uranium concentration in the lixiviant) of some patterns for NR-1 decrease below the economic limit, replacement patterns from NR-2 will be placed into operation in order to maintain the desired flow rate and solution grade at the processing plant. Eventually, all the patterns in NR-1 will reach their economic limit and all production flow in that area will cease. At that time, all production flow will be coming from NR-2 and restoration activities will commence at NR-1.
Each planned Nichols Ranch Unit production area includes a number of injection wells, recovery wells, monitoring wells, header houses and associated piping and power supply. Header houses will be located within the well field and will distribute recovered fluids from recovery wells to trunk lines, and injection fluids from the processing facility through the trunk lines to injection wells. The planned Nichols Ranch Unit is anticipated to include the following:
486 injection wells;
418 recovery wells;
95 monitoring wells; and
23 header houses.
The planned Hank Unit will include a satellite IX facility and two production areas, H-1 and H-2. The Hank Unit production areas will follow a similar developmental, production, and restoration schedule as outlined above for the Nichols Ranch Unit production areas.
Each planned Hank Unit production area includes a number of injection wells, recovery wells, monitoring wells, header houses and associated piping and power supply. The planned Hank Unit is anticipated to include the following:
402 injection wells;
318 recovery wells;
80 monitoring wells; and
19 header houses.
Two Underground Injection Control (UIC) deep disposal wells will also be required, one at the Nichols Ranch Unit and one at the Hank Unit, for disposal of liquid wastes from well field bleed, processing plant operations and restoration.
Mine Planning and Permitting
We are proceeding with mine planning for the Nichols Ranch Uranium In-Situ Recovery Project that would initially be sited on the Hank and Nichols Ranch properties. Because of the long lead times for environmental permitting of mining operations in North America, in 2007 we filed applications to the State of Wyoming (“WDEQ”) and the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission (“NRC”) for permits to conduct ISR mining of uranium for the Nichols Ranch and Hank properties. We engaged TRC based in Laramie, Wyoming as the prime contractor for performing the several environmental baseline studies. We have engaged Hydro Engineering from Casper, Wyoming to perform the necessary aquifer pump tests, and prepare the hydrology section of the environmental permit applications. We have to date completed environmental surveys such as vegetation, soils, wildlife, cultural resources, radiation and water quality. Reports were prepared and incorporated into our applications which were submitted to the WDEQ and NRC in the last quarter of 2007. Approval of the environmental permit applications is expected to allow us to proceed with commercial advancement of the two properties leading to production of yellowcake using the ISR method of uranium mining should it be determined that development is warranted.
The primary regulatory approvals for an ISR uranium mine come from the WDEQ at the state level, and from the NRC at the federal level. The WDEQ issues a Permit to Mine, and the NRC issues a Source Material License. It is anticipated that the NRC will complete a Generic Environmental Impact Statement prior to the approval of new uranium ISR production activities. Both the state and federal agencies look at all environmental aspects of a proposed ISR mine including reclamation of the land surface following mining operations, and restoration of impacted ground water. Work place safety and the safety of the public are also closely monitored by regulatory agencies. Posting of a reclamation bond by the mine operator with the regulatory agencies in an amount to cover the total estimated cost of reclamation by a third party is also a requirement of the law. The reclamation bond must be a "hard" bond which means it must be either cash, certificate of deposit, letter of credit or some other similar type of financial instrument.
In April 2008 the NRC deemed our application acceptable to advance to the detailed technical and environmental stage of review. In August 2008 the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality deemed our application to build and operate an in-situ recovery mine “complete” and ready to move to the next stage of review. The next stage includes a detailed technical and environmental review of the application and public discussion. Concurrently, the NRC review of our application for a Source Material
License is proceeding in a normal manner. Approval of the permit applications is expected to allow us to proceed with commercial advancement of the two properties leading to production of yellowcake using the ISR method of uranium mining.
Prior to the start of mining (the injection of lixiviant into the ore body aquifer), we must have obtained all the necessary permits, licenses, and approvals required by the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality - Land, Water and Air Divisions and the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The various state and federal permits and licenses that are needed or have been obtained for the Project are summarized below:
Permits and Licenses for the Nichols Ranch ISR Project
Notes: NRC - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
WDEQ-LQD - Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality Land Quality Division
WDEQ-WQD - Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality Water Quality Division
WDEQ-AQD - Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality Air Quality Division
WYPDES - Wyoming Pollution Discharge Elimination System
SEO - State Engineer's Office
Proceeding with these advanced activities prior to completing detailed feasibility analysis adds risk to our plan of operations and we may incur costs which might not otherwise have been incurred.
2009 Plan of Operations for Powder River Basin Properties
During 2009, we plan to:
continue with our exploration of our Powder River Properties as outline above under “2009 Exploration Plan”; and
continue with our permitting and mine planning efforts, including proceeding with environmental studies and engineering and design, in connection with the Nichols Ranch IS Project, as outlined above under “Nichols Ranch ISR Project”.
All of our projects are at the exploration stage and there can be no assurance that a commercially viable mineral deposit, or reserve, exists on any of our properties until appropriate exploratory work is done and a comprehensive evaluation based on such work concludes legal and economic feasibility. Further exploration will be required before a final evaluation as to the economic, technical and legal feasibility of mining of any of our properties is determined. There is no assurance that further exploration will result in a final evaluation that a commercially viable mineral deposit exists on any of our mineral properties. We anticipate that we will require additional financing in order to pursue full development of these projects. We have sufficient financing to continue exploration and development planning of our mineral claims but there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary financing to conduct mining activities, if warranted. Because of the long lead times for environmental permitting of mining operations in North America, we have collected environmental baseline data and filed the environmental permitting applications on two of our properties in Powder River Basin area of Wyoming that we feel may have the potential, based on data in our possession, of being developed into commercial in-situ recovery uranium mines. However, we have not at this stage completed any comprehensive feasibility studies on these properties demonstrating that development of any of the properties is commercially warranted. Proceeding with these advanced activities prior to completing detailed feasibility analysis adds risk to our plan of operations and we may incur costs which might not otherwise have been incurred.
Our cash expenditures in 2009, excluding equipment and property acquisitions, are estimated to be $9.5 million, as follows:
These estimates are subject to change.
Wyoming - Great Divide/Red Desert Properties
Our Great Divide Basin properties comprise the Cyclone Rim and Eagle projects. The Cyclone Rim project consists of 54 federal mining claims. The Eagle property consists of 110 federal mining claims and an adjacent 640 acre Wyoming State Lease. Both projects are located in Sweetwater County, Wyoming.
On June 7, 2006, we entered into an option agreement with Black Range Minerals Limited (“Black Range”) on two of our exploration properties located within the Red Desert area of southwest Wyoming. This formal agreement followed a strategic alliance agreement entered into between us and Black Range on May 18, 2006.
Under the terms of the option agreement, we and Black Range proposed to enter into a joint venture to conduct further exploration and to develop the properties under the following conditions:
Stage 1
Under the terms of the option agreement Black Range would have the right to earn a 50% equity interest in the proposed joint venture by managing and meeting the first $750,000 in exploration expenditures on the properties, at no cost to us, including land holding costs such as maintenance fees, lease costs etc.
Black Range is obliged to spend at least $100,000 per year on exploration on the properties and to spend the first $750,000 on exploration within three (3) years of inception of the option agreement. Once Black Range has spent $750,000 on the properties, the parties would enter into a joint venture agreement and our equity interest would reduce to 50% and Black Range’s equity interest would increase to 50%.
Stage 2
On completion of Stage 1, should we elect not to contribute to the costs of the second phase of expenditure on a pro-rata basis, then Black Range shall have the right to earn a further 1% interest in the proposed joint venture for every $25,000 spent on the properties to a maximum interest in the proposed joint venture of 70% (by spending $500,000). On completion of Stage 1, should Black Range elect not to contribute to the cost of the Stage 2 of expenditure on a pro-rata basis, then we shall have the right to earn a further 1% interest in the proposed joint venture for every $25,000 spent on the properties, to a maximum interest in the proposed joint venture of 70% (by spending $500,000).
Stage 3
On completion of Stage 2, should we elect not to contribute to all further expenditure on a pro-rata basis, then Black Range shall have the right to earn a further 1% interest in the proposed joint venture for every $25,000 spent on the properties to a maximum interest in the proposed joint venture of 100% (by spending $750,000). We would be awarded a 6% royalty for our contribution up to that point.
On completion of Stage 2, should Black Range elect not to contribute to all further expenditure on a pro-rata basis, then we shall have the right to earn a further 1% interest in the proposed joint venture for every $25,000 spent on the properties to a maximum interest in the proposed joint venture of 100% (by spending $750,000). Black Range would be awarded a 6% royalty for their contribution up to that point.
As of December 31, 2008 Black Range has completed drilling at both properties in the Great Divide Basin area with 32 holes drilled on the Eagle property in 2006 and 42 holes drilled on the Cyclone Rim property during 2007. Geologic study is continuing on these drill results. Accordingly, they have met the minimum expenditure requirements and are continuing Stage 1 of the option agreement. Black Range is continuing to study results from exploring these properties.
Saskatchewan - Cochrane River Property
The Cochrane River property extends to the northeast of the northern portion of Wollaston Lake, Saskatchewan. The closest community is the Village of Wollaston Lake which is located 50 km to the south. This community is served by a year-round scheduled air link to the cities of Saskatoon and Prince Albert in central Saskatchewan. A winter road (during January, February and March) links the Wollaston Lake community with Provincial Highway 905 (and the provincial road network) on the west side of Wollaston Lake.
There is presently no road access to the Cochrane River property. Numerous lakes within the property can be accessed by float- and ski-equipped light aircraft which are available for charter at Points North Landing (75 km to the southwest) and at the Town of La Ronge (400 km to the south-southwest).
Cochrane River -Ownership Interest
Our Cochrane River property originally consisted of two Mineral Prospecting Permits (MPP 1237 and MPP 1238) with a combined total areal extent of 67,480 hectares (166,747 acres). The property is located in northern Saskatchewan. Ubex Capital Inc. (“Ubex”) filed an application with Saskatchewan Industry and Resources (“SIR”) to acquire the permits on 31st January, 2005, and certificates confirming title were subsequently issued by SIR on 4th March, 2005. The permits were registered in the name of Ubex Capital Inc. with 100% unencumbered ownership. Title to MPP1237 and MPP 1238 was sold to us by Ubex. We entered into a mineral property purchase agreement with Ubex dated April 26th, 2005, to acquire an undivided 100% right, title and interest in the two mineral exploration properties. The agreement is subject to Ubex retaining a 2% royalty. Total consideration for this acquisition consists of a cash payment in the amount of $40,756.95 Canadian dollars (Cdn$), which was Ubex’s cost of acquisition of the two permits.
Ubex Capital Inc. is 100% owned by Dennis Higgs, one of our directors. Ubex will retain a royalty of 2% on the property.
On October 20, 2005, an amendment to this agreement was signed that allows us the one time right exercisable for 90 days following completion of a bankable feasibility study to buy up to one half (50.0%) of Ubex’s royalty interest (i.e. an amount equal to 1% Royalty) for Cdn$1,000,000, leaving Ubex to retain not less than a 1% Royalty.
Saskatchewan mineral dispositions including permits are administered by SIR on behalf of the Crown of Canada in accordance with The Mineral Disposition Regulations, 1986. The holder of a permit is granted the exclusive right to explore for minerals (though not to extract, recover or produce minerals except for testing and scientific purposes) within the permit outline. A permit is valid for a period of two years and may not be renewed. While in compliance with the requirements of the regulations, a permit holder is entitled to convert any portion of a permit to mineral claims which may be held indefinitely. The two-year life on the permits ended on January 31, 2007. In late January and early February, 2007, a total of seven claims were staked within the boundaries of MPP 1237 and 1238, for a total of 28,012 hectares. The new claims have been recorded with the Saskatchewan mine recorder office in la Ronge. The staked area covered the most interesting “area of interest” as interpreted from the exploration programs conducted by Triex, as described below. A claim holder may subsequently convert his claim into a mineral lease which allows for commercial extraction of minerals.
Cochrane River -Present Condition of the Property and Proposed Exploration Program
On November 4, 2005, we signed an agreement to joint venture our Cochrane River property located in northern Saskatchewan, Canada, with Triex Minerals Corporation. Triex completed detailed helicopter-borne geophysical surveys, follow-up ground exploration programs including grid-based and lakeshore prospecting and geological mapping, an extensive lake sediment survey, ground-based resistively surveys, a lake sediment sample program, a pole-dipole array D.C. resistively survey, property-scale geological mapping of outcrops, and systematic geochemical sampling of boulders and glacial till. Total cumulative expenditures by Triex on the Cochrane River property over approximately two and one-half years, was Cdn$1.23 million.
In April 2008, our Cochrane River Saskatchewan Joint Venture was terminated with Triex forfeiting its right to earn an interest in the project. The properties are currently in good standing with two (2) claims due to expire on January 30, 2010 and the remaining five (5) claims expiring on January 30, 2011. We will continue to evaluate options for these properties, which include possible arrangements with other potential joint venture partners, further exploration by ourselves, or disposition.
The Saskatchewan properties are presently not considered material properties and will not be considered material properties until more data and information can be obtained.
Texas
On July 16, 2007 we announced the completion of an initial leasing program of approximately 8,000 acres in the State of Texas. Based on geologic reports and more than 90 historic drill holes, these 8,000 acres are believed to cover a northeast-southwest uranium mineralization trend.
We made the decision to widen our operations into the State of Texas given the possibility of in-situ recovery mining as evidenced by the existence of at least two successful uranium mines operating in Texas.
Geologic study has been completed on the historic data we obtained from third parties. Initial drilling programs have been designed using this analysis to evaluate the presence of the uranium mineralization and to select targets within the area. Field work was planned to commence in the second quarter of 2008 but has been delayed due to an alignment of priorities toward our Wyoming properties. This is planned to test the presence of the uranium indicated in historic data. The field work may also include coring and industry standard extraction testing procedures of the anomalous zones to characterize the host sand for suitability of in situ recovery.
Our Texas project is presently not considered a material property and will not be considered a material property until more data and information on the project can be obtained.
ITEM 3.