ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
Overview
We are an exploration stage company engaged in the acquisition, exploration and, if warranted, development of uranium properties. “Uranium” used in this context refers to U3O8. U3O8, also called yellowcake, is triuranium octoxide produced from uranium deposits and is the most actively traded uranium-related commodity.
We are focused on both the exploration and extraction from of our properties in the Powder River Basin area of Wyoming. We are exploring these properties with the objective of assessing their viability for commercial ISR uranium mining. ISR is a mining process that uses a “leaching solution” to extract uranium from underground sandstone-hosted uranium deposits.
Concurrent with our exploration activities, we have been constructing a processing plant and first wellfield for the Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project. This construction began in early August 2011 after receiving our mine operating permits on two of our properties in the Powder River Basin area of Wyoming, known as the Nichols Ranch Unit and the Hank Unit. We believe that these properties have the potential, based on data in our possession, of being developed into ISR uranium mines. Our permits will allow us to produce uranium yellowcake concentrate, which can be sold directly to utilities for fuel used in nuclear electrical generating facilities. Because of the long lead times for environmental permitting of mining operations in North America, we filed applications to the State of Wyoming (WDEQ) and the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) for permits for the Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project in December 2007. The status of our permitting activities is described more fully below under the heading “Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project”.
Our Powder River Basin properties include:
our 100% owned properties that totaled 20,121 acres; and
our 81% interest in Arkose Mining Venture properties that totaled 59,107 acres as of December 31, 2013.
We did not conduct an exploration program on our Powder River Basin properties in 2013, as geological efforts were focused on deep disposal wells and wellfields at our Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project. Our plan of operations during 2014 is to:
commence mining at our Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project;
continue wellfield development at the Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project with the drilling of additional production wells for Production Area #1 and monitor wells for Production Area #2;
file a mine application with the NRC and the WDEQ for our Jane Dough property; and
evaluate our Powder River Basin Properties as detailed below under “2014 Exploration Program”.
All of our projects are at the exploration stage and there can be no assurance that a commercially viable mineral deposit, or reserve, exists on any of our properties until appropriate exploratory and development work is done and results are assessed. Our economic, technical and legal feasibility of mining the Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project provides no assurance that it will result in a commercially viable mineral deposit and the project is exploratory in nature.
Operations
Our geologic program in the Wyoming Powder River Basin is directed by Mr. Bruce Larson, Vice-President, Exploration, and supervised by Mr. Paul Goranson our President and Chief Operating Officer. We engage contractors to carry out our exploration programs under Mr. Larson’s supervision. Contractors that we plan to engage include drilling companies and, possibly, geophysical logging companies, each according to the specific exploration program on each property.
Our management will make determinations as to whether to proceed with the additional exploration of our Wyoming Powder River Basin mineral properties based on the results of the preliminary exploration that we undertake. In completing these determinations, we will make an assessment as to whether the results of the exploration are sufficiently positive for us to proceed with more advanced exploration.
Wyoming Properties
We have several properties in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming as shown in the map below:
Uranerz Energy Corporation - Wyoming Property Locations - December 2013
Legend:
A - Powder River Basin Properties
We plan to maintain, explore and, if warranted, enhance our properties in the Powder River Basin area of Wyoming.
Powder River Basin Properties
As of December 31, 2013, our Powder River Basin properties include both our 100% owned properties and those properties included within the Arkose Mining Venture. These principal properties comprise in total approximately 79,228 acres and consist of a combination of federal mining claims, state mineral leases and private fee mineral leases. A map showing the location of our 100% owned Powder River Basin and Arkose Mining Venture properties is provided below:
Uranerz Energy Corporation - Powder River Basin - December
An additional map showing the location of our properties within the general Powder Basin property area and our key property units is presented below:
Uranerz Energy Corporation - Powder River Basin - Property Units - December 2013
Ownership Interests
Our ownership interests in the properties within the Powder River Basin are summarized as follows:
100% Owned Properties
Our 100% owned properties are comprised of unpatented lode mining claims, state leases and fee (private) mineral leases, as summarized as follows:
(1)
Subject to royalties, as discussed further below.
These 100% owned properties in the Powder River Basin include the following core property units:
We continue to look for more prospective lands in the Powder River Basin and as a result may locate, purchase or lease additional unpatented lode mining claims; and/or purchase or lease additional fee mineral (private) lands during the next twelve months, however there is no assurance any additional properties will be acquired.
Arkose Mining Venture
The Arkose Mining Venture properties are comprised of unpatented mineral lode claims, state leases and fee (private) mineral leases, as summarized as follows:
(1)
Subject to royalties, as discussed further below.
We completed the acquisition of an undivided 81% interest in the Arkose Mining Venture mineral properties on January 15, 2008. This acquisition was completed pursuant to a purchase and sale agreement with mining venture previously announced on September 19, 2007 between Uranerz, and NAMMCO, Steven C. Kirkwood, Robert W. Kirkwood and Stephen L. Payne (collectively, the “NAMMCO Sellers”). The total purchase price that we paid to acquire this 81% interest in the Arkose Mining Venture included cash of $5,757,000 and 5,750,000 shares of our common stock issued to the NAMMCO Sellers.
In connection with our acquisition of an 81% interest in the Arkose Mining Venture, we entered into a venture agreement dated as of January 15, 2008 (the “Venture Agreement”) with United Nuclear, LLC (“United Nuclear”), a limited liability company wholly owned by the NAMMCO Sellers and their designee under the purchase and sale agreement. Under the Venture Agreement, we agreed that United Nuclear will hold (and contribute to) its nineteen percent (19%) working interest in the Arkose Mining Venture, and we will operate and be the manager of the Arkose Mining Venture under the name “Arkose Mining Venture”. We and United Nuclear agreed to contribute funds to programs and budgets approved under the Arkose Mining Venture in accordance with our respective interests in the Venture.
The Venture Agreement provides that we, as manager, will have management and control over operations carried out by the Arkose Mining Venture. We are obligated to present proposed programs and budgets to the management committee of the Arkose Mining Venture on an annual basis. The proposed programs and budgets may include exploration programs, pre-feasibility studies, feasibility studies, mine construction, mining, and expansion or modification of operation plans. Proposed programs and budgets are reviewed by the management committee appointed under the Arkose Mining Venture which includes at least two members from each company appointed by Uranerz and United Nuclear respectively. Unless otherwise provided in the Venture Agreement, the vote of the participant with a participating interest greater than 50% will determine decisions of the management committee. A participant may elect to participate in an approved program and budget either (i) in proportion to the participant’s respective interest in the Arkose Mining Venture, or (ii) not at all. In the event that a participant elects not to participate in a program and budget, then its participating interest in the Venture Agreement is subject to recalculation in accordance with the Venture Agreement to reflect the decision not to participate.
This overview of the Venture Agreement does not provide a full discussion of all terms and conditions of the Venture Agreement. Interested parties are encouraged to read the entire copy of the Venture Agreement that was filed with the SEC as an exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 22, 2008.
The Arkose Mining Venture includes the following property units on which we have conducted exploration:
South Doughstick
Cedar Canyon
East Buck
South Collins Draw
Sand Rock
Little Butte
House Creek
Beecher Draw
Lone Bull
Kermit
Monument
North Jane
Stage
Other Powder River Basin Projects
Through a combination of claim staking, purchasing, and leasing, we also have acquired interests in several projects that lie within the Powder River Basin but outside of the project areas discussed above. These properties include the Verna Ann, Niles Ranch and Reno Creek projects which cover approximately 1,473 acres. In general, these projects are located in sandstone basins of Tertiary age with known uranium mineralization. However, due to our focused approach we have not yet initiated exploration work on these projects. Additional leasing in the Reno Creek Project has prompted us to acquire past exploration data for this area. Environmental base line work will be required before submitting permit applications for ISR facilities.
Forfeiture of certain Powder River Basin interests
During 2013, we decided to retain all our interests in our 100% owned mining claims in the Powder River Basin. We decided to forfeit the increase in certain mining claims comprising 180.75 acres in our Arkose Mining Venture based on the review, analysis and recommendations of our geological staff. We will continue to review our property portfolio and may decide to forfeit mineral interests in the future if we determine that they are no longer of strategic interest.
Hank Unit and Nichols Ranch Unit
Within the Nichols Ranch Unit we have 36 unpatented lode mining claims, two fee surface and mineral leases, and one surface use agreement. There is an overriding royalty interest in favor of Excalibur Industries on all federal unpatented lode mining claims that were acquired by us from Excalibur Industries. Many of the unpatented lode mining claims located at the Hank Unit and at the Nichols Ranch Unit have an associated gross royalty payable to Excalibur Industries of 6 percent when the spot price of uranium is less than $45.00 per pound and of 8 percent if the uranium spot price is $45.00 per pound or higher. In addition, there is a portion of the Nichols Ranch Unit that includes private (fee) mineral that is subject to the above Excalibur Industries royalty, plus an additional royalty payable to the fee mineral owner under the fee leases (equaling a 12 percent or 16 percent royalty depending upon the spot price of uranium).
Within the Hank Unit we have 66 unpatented lode mining claims, two fee surface and mineral leases, and one surface use agreement. The Hank Unit permit boundary encompasses approximately 2,250 acres. Within the permit boundary, we have the right to mine approximately 1,393 acres of mineral rights. Of the 66 unpatented lode mining claims comprising the Hank Unit, 56 of the claims have a royalty interest burden, payable to Excalibur Industries, of 6 or 8 percent depending on the price of uranium. This royalty interest is based on uranium produced from these claims.
West North-Butte Satellite Properties
The West North-Butte property covers approximately 1,960 acres of land and is comprised of 125 unpatented lode mining claims and one surface use agreement, of which 6 unpatented lode mining claims are subject to a royalty interest burden, payable to Excalibur Industries, of six or eight percent depending on the price of uranium.
The east portion of the West North-Butte property covers approximately 325 acres of land and is comprised of 17 unpatented lode mining claims and one surface use agreement. None of the claims in this property are subject to a royalty.
The Willow Creek property covers approximately 220 acres of land and is comprised of 11 unpatented lode mining claims and one surface use agreement, all of which unpatented lode mining claims are subject to a royalty interest burden, payable to Excalibur Industries, of 6 or 8 percent depending on the price of uranium.
Arkose Mining Venture
The Arkose Mining Venture properties consist of unpatented lode mining claims, fee mineral leases, and state mineral leases. The land surface consists of private, federal and state lands. There are 2,641 unpatented lode mining claims included in the Arkose Property which comprise 43,207 acres and 61 fee mineral leases and 3 state leases included in the Arkose Property which comprise 15,900 acres. All of the unpatented lode mining claims are owned by us subject to the beneficial interests of the participants in the Arkose Mining Venture.
Of the 2,641 unpatented lode mining claims, 748 unpatented lode mining claims have an overriding royalty interest burden of 0.25% . This overriding royalty interest is based on production of uranium on these claims.
Our interest in the leased property included in the Arkose Property is a leasehold interest subject to the various terms as set forth in the applicable leases (the “Arkose Leases”). The Arkose Leases are mineral leases only and the Arkose Mining Venture obtained surface use agreements with the various surface owners of said lands prior to commencing any activities. The majority of the Arkose Leases (other than the three state leases, which are paid annually) are paid up for either five or ten years. The five-year paid-up leases have an option to extend for a second five-year term, and for so long thereafter as the property under the lease is in production. The Arkose Leases only cover uranium and other fissionable minerals. Commingling of ores from adjacent lands is allowable under the fee mineral leases.
Royalties under the fee mineral leases are variable and can range from a flat 4% on uranium production to a sliding scale of 2-10% with different intermediate break points with the 10% rate applying to sales prices of $100 per pound of uranium and greater.
Unpatented Lode Mining Claims
Our unpatented lode mining claims, including those subject to the Arkose Mining Venture, are located on minerals owned by the federal government and open to location, with the surface being owned either by the federal government or private individuals. In addition, the unpatented lode mining claims are recorded in the appropriate county and filed with the state office of the Bureau of Land Management (the “BLM”).
The unpatented lode claims do not have an expiration date. However, affidavits must be filed annually with the BLM and respective county recorder’s offices in order to maintain the claims’ validity. All of the unpatented lode claims have annual filing requirements ($140 per claim) with the BLM, to be paid on or before September 1 of each year.
Most of the above-mentioned unpatented lode claims are located on Stock Raising Homestead land where the United States government has issued a patent for the surface to an individual and reserved the minerals to the United States government subject to the location rights by claimants as set forth in the federal Mining Act of 1872.
Mining Leases
Our leasehold interests within our 100% owned properties are subject to the various terms as set forth in the applicable leases. The state leases and leases on fee mineral lands usually have annual payments, royalty obligations, and the term of the leases vary, but for the most part can be extended by production. The fee surface and mineral leases apply only to uranium and other fissionable minerals and typically have a 10-year term with the right to extend the leases with production. Commingling of production from adjacent lands is allowable under the fee mineral leases.
Surface Rights
The Powder River Basin area has surface rights under applicable laws that allow for exploration disturbance, road construction and facility siting. The claimant must first notify the surface owner of its intention to locate unpatented lode mining claims on the owner’s surface and then try and reach an agreement with the surface owner to pay for damages caused by the claimant’s operations. If an agreement cannot be reached, the claimant may post a bond with the BLM to cover the amount of the damages caused by the claimant’s operations.
We have negotiated surface use agreements with various surface owners covering a majority of our project areas. The surface use agreements typically provide for reimbursement to the surface owner of actual damages resulting from our operations.
Taxes and Fees
We will be required to pay severance tax and ad valorem tax to the State of Wyoming, in addition to various maintenance, land impact and access fees as well as other consideration to surface holders.
Location and Access; Topography, Elevation and Vegetation; Climate
Our properties in the Powder River Basin area are located approximately 50 miles southwest of Gillette, Wyoming and 100 miles northeast of Casper, Wyoming. The Nichols Ranch site is accessed from State Highway 50 from the east or State Highway 387 from the south, and various internal gravel surface county and private roads. Casper is on Interstate 25, approximately one hour by air from either Denver, Colorado or Salt Lake City, Utah.
Our Powder River Basin properties are located in portions of Campbell and Johnson Counties, Wyoming, U.S.A., and are approximately 60 air miles northeast of Casper, Wyoming. The Powder River Basin properties cover lands in various sections in the Townships 41 to 45 North and Ranges 73 to 78 West.
The center of our properties (centered east-west) is approximately 8 miles west of the junction of Wyoming Highways 50 and 387. The properties are accessible via two-wheel drive vehicles on existing county and/or private gravel and dirt roads. Accessibility for drilling at this time appears acceptable with the exception of very wet or snowy ground surface conditions. Road improvements may be required.
The Powder River Basin properties are located within the Wyoming Basin physiographic province in the central portion of the Powder River Basin, within the Pumpkin Buttes Mining District. The Pumpkin Buttes are a series of small buttes rising several hundred feet above the surrounding plains. Portions of the Powder River Basin properties are located east, west and south of these buttes. The cap rocks on top of the buttes are erosional remnants of the Tertiary White River Formation that is believed to have overlain the majority of the Powder River Basin. The volcanic tuffs in the White River Formation have been cited as a source of uranium in this basin.
The area in which the Powder River Basin properties is located is a low lying plain, and elevations range from approximately 4,390 feet (1,440 meters) in the northwest to approximately 5,450 feet (1,790 meters) in the southeast. Historically and currently the land is used for livestock and wildlife grazing. Vegetation is characteristically sagebrush grassland with some pines on elevated terrain and some deciduous trees within drainages.
The climate is semi-arid and receives an annual precipitation of approximately 9.4 inches, the most falling in the form of late autumnal to early spring snows. The summer months are usually hot, dry and clear except for infrequent heavy rains. Cold, wind and snow/blizzards can make winter exploration work in this area difficult but not impossible. The weather may limit the time periods for capital construction but should not have any significant adverse impacts on the operation of an ISR facility.
Geology
Our Powder River Basin properties encompass approximately 79,228 acres, and potential target mineralized zones are expected to occur throughout the properties. The potential target mineralization within the Powder River Basin properties are alteration-reduction trends hosted in the Eocene age channel sands that lie at depths of approximately 300 to 1,100 feet from the surface. Roll front deposits of uranium mineralized material are anticipated to occur within these properties. An alteration reduction trend is a natural chemical boundary trend line in a sandstone aquifer where reduced (non-oxidized) sand is in contact with altered (oxidized) sand. Uranium mineralization may be found along the trend line.
Our Powder River Basin properties contain alteration-reduction trends hosted in Eocene age channel sands. Alteration-reduction trends in the Pumpkin Buttes Mining District are typically composed of multiple, stacked roll front deposits that often contain associated uranium mineralization. A stacked role front is a type of uranium occurrence found in thick sandstone where a number of mineralization trends are stacked on top of each other. Uranium mineralization within and adjacent to the Powder River Basin properties are found in the Eocene Wasatch Formation (“Wasatch”). The Wasatch is a fluvial deposit composed of arkosic sandstones that are typically 25% or more feldspar grains and indicates a source rock where chemical weathering was not extreme and the sediments have not been transported far. A fluvial deposit is a deposit of uranium mineralization found in sandstones that originated from sediments laid down by streams and rivers. The arkosic sandstone is a type of sandstone that contains a high percentage of feldspar grains. The medium grain size and relatively good sorting of this sediment implies water transportation, probably in a meandering river/stream system. The Wasatch formation is interlaid with sandstones, claystones, siltstones, carbonaceous shale, and thin coal seams that overlie the Paleocene Fort Union Formation, another fluvial sedimentary unit.
Exploration History
Our Powder River Basin properties are located within the Pumpkin Buttes Mining District which was the first commercial uranium production district in Wyoming. Uranium was first discovered in the Pumpkin Buttes in 1951. Intermittent production from some 55 small mines through 1967 produced 36,737 tons of ore containing 208,143 pounds of uranium. This early mining focused on shallow oxidized ores exploited by small open pit mines. The ore was generally transported to the Atomic Energy Commission buying station in Edgemont, South Dakota. Modern mining in the district has focused on deeper reduced ores. Uranium One’s Christensen Ranch (now called Willow Creek) and Irigaray ISR uranium mining areas and processing facilities are located within the Pumpkin Buttes Mining District, approximately 10 and 16 air miles, respectively, from the Arkose Property. These mines have completed successful ISR mining and aquifer restoration in the Wasatch formation.
These properties were originally part of a large exploration area encompassing Townships 33 through 50 North of Ranges 69 through 79 West, on the 6th principal meridian. In 1966, Mountain West Mines Inc. (MWM, now Excalibur Industries) began a successful drilling exploration program in a portion of this area. In 1967, MWM entered into an agreement with Cleveland-Cliffs Iron Company (“CCI”) for further exploration and option if suitable resources were found. CCI exercised its option in 1976 with plans to begin underground mining operations in the vicinity of North Butte. Changing economic conditions and the introduction of ISR mining technology reportedly ended much of CCI’s interest in the area. By the late 1980s they began selling select properties or allowing them to revert back to the federal government.
In addition to CCI, other uranium exploration companies during the last forty years have controlled property either within or near our Powder River Basin properties. These included Kerr McGee, Conoco, Texaco, American Nuclear, Tennessee Valley Authority and Uranerz U.S.A., Inc. Uranium One NC (via subsidiary Cogema Resources Inc.) and Power Resources Inc. d.b.a Cameco Resources (a subsidiary of Cameco Corporation) have retained portions of their original land positions in the area and Cameco is now in production at their North Butte property. The mining claims and leases originally controlled by most of these companies were let go over the years due to market conditions. These property abandonments continued into 2004.
As a result of this history of exploration and our own exploration efforts, there is available to us for our exploration of the Powder River Basin properties published and unpublished mineral trend projections, mineral resource summaries and historic and current mineral resource reports developed by us or other operators from these properties or adjacent mineral properties, as applicable. In addition, there are publicly available drill results from approximately 1,250 coal bed methane (“CBM”) exploration/production wells in the region of the Arkose Mining Venture properties, which are discussed further below.
Nichols Ranch Unit and Hank Unit
Between 1968 and 1980 CCI drilled 117 holes and installed 3 water wells on the Nichols Ranch property. Texas Eastern Nuclear Inc. in 1985 completed limited drilling and exploration on the property and in early 1990s Rio Algom Co. also completed limited drilling in the area.
Between 1968 and 1980, CCI drilled 197 holes within the Hank Unit. In 1985, Texas Eastern Nuclear, Inc. completed limited drilling and exploration on the property (approximately 28 borings). In the early 1990s, Kerr McGee Corporation and Rio Algom Mining Corporation also completed limited drilling in the area.
We drilled 61 exploratory holes and seven wells within the Hank Unit during 2006 and 2007 and eight additional wells in 2009. We drilled 257 exploration holes, including three core holes and three water wells at Nichols Ranch during 2006 and 2007 and 25 exploration holes and seven wells in 2009. There has been no new drilling activity at Hank since 2009.
West North- Butte Satellite Properties
Between 1968 and 1985, CCI drilled approximately 380 exploratory holes within the satellite properties. From 1983 to 1985, Texas Eastern Nuclear drilled approximately 12 exploratory holes in the satellite properties and from approximately 1990 to 1992 Rio Algom Mining Corporation drilled approximately 5 exploratory holes. In 2006, we completed an acquisition of the satellite properties, and in 2007 and 2008, drilled approximately 127 exploratory holes.
Arkose Mining Venture
It is estimated that over 4,000 historic uranium exploration holes may have been drilled within the Arkose Property. This exploration was conducted by numerous exploration companies from the 1960s through the 1990s. Although this historic exploration data is known to exist, obtaining information on all but a handful (less than 50) of specific drill hole data, such as gamma, resistivity, and lithology logs, was not possible until 2010 when Uranerz acquired the Hubert log library. Coal bed methane exploration/production wells were drilled by numerous companies for development of CBM resources in the area. A total of approximately 1,250 CBM exploration/production wells have been drilled on or immediately adjacent to the Arkose Property. Most of this drilling was completed from 1,200 to 2,000 feet deep. CBM exploration/production wells and their associated gamma logs are all drilled and logged through the uranium mineralization-bearing sand horizons. Utilizing the available uranium drill data and the CBM drill data base, we had a technical report prepared in February 2008 to independently address the geology and potential uranium mineralization within our mineral holdings on the Arkose Mining Venture.
The NAMMCO Sellers commenced acquiring rights to the properties comprising the Arkose Property in 2005, and continued to do so through 2006 and 2007. On January 15, 2008, we completed the acquisition of an undivided 81% interest in the Arkose Property and formed the Arkose Mining Venture with the vendors of these properties.
Local Resources and Properties Infrastructure
Infrastructure at the site of the Powder River Basin properties is dominantly related to local oil, gas, and CBM exploration and development. Mineralized locations could affect future siting of wellfields and processing facilities. Generally, the proximity of the Powder River Basin properties to paved roads will be beneficial with respect to transportation of equipment, supplies, personnel and product to and from the properties. Power transmission lines are located on or near parts of the Powder River Basin properties. We have secured power from the local electrical service provider to accommodate our needs. Water is available from wells developed at planned facility locations (potable) and water for ISR operations will come from the operation itself, i.e. the extracted groundwater. Therefore, the basic infrastructure (power, water and transportation) required to support an ISR mining operation is located within reasonable proximity of the Powder River Basin properties.
Personnel required for exploration, construction and operation at the Powder River Basin properties are expected to come from Gillette, Wright, Buffalo and Casper, Wyoming.
Typical ISR mining operations also require a disposal well for limited quantities of fluids that cannot be returned to the production aquifers. Commonly, oil and gas wells within aquifers that have been or can be condemned for public use are utilized for such purposes. Oil and gas wells, both abandoned and producing, are located in the immediate vicinity of the properties.
Central processing plant construction was substantially completed in 2013, and production is expected to commence in the first quarter of 2014 after final NRC inspections are complete.
Exploration Completed by Uranerz
2013 Drilling Program
Our 2013 drilling program was restricted to adding production and monitor wells for our Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project. No new exploration drilling was conducted.
2012 Drilling Program
During 2012, we were engaged in drilling exploration efforts on the Arkose Mining Venture Powder River Basin properties, as well as wellfield installation at Nichols Ranch Production Area #1. The purpose of the 2012 drilling program on the Arkose Mining Venture properties was to find previously unknown or little-known uranium mineralization trends and to delineate known trends, which would provide data for permitting and eventual production operations in favorably identified areas.
A total of 84 holes were drilled on the Arkose Mining Venture properties during 2012. All of the exploration holes were drilled in the Monument project area. Drilling targets were mainly in the 70 and 80 Sands at Monument, with a total of 85,365 feet drilled at an average depth of 1,016 feet per hole. The trends of mineralization that were found in the Monument project area in 2011 were further explored. A total of 2.2 miles of new roll front mineral trends were drilled in 2012. Drilling results in 2012 did not progress to the point where economic reports or evaluations could be undertaken.
At the wellfield production Unit 1 of Nichols Ranch, 263 production wells were cased and cemented. The production wells are being connected to header houses with buried feeder lines. It was planned that initial production should begin with four header houses. Three header houses were set on their foundations in 2012 and were in the process of being connected to individual production wells.
2011 Drilling Program
During 2011, we were engaged in exploration efforts on both our 100% owned Powder River Basin properties and on the Arkose Mining Venture Powder River Basin properties. The purpose of the 2011 drilling program was to find previously unknown or little-known uranium mineralization trends and to delineate known trends, which would provide data for permitting and eventual production operations in favorably identified areas. During the 2011 drilling program, approximately six miles of uranium roll front trends were investigated
On our 100% owned properties, 38 delineation holes were drilled on our Nichols Ranch property. The purpose of this drilling was for final delineation drilling in Production Area #2 prior to beginning the monitor well and production well installation in Production Area #1.
In addition to drilling at the Nichols Ranch property, 75 delineation drill holes were completed at our Collins Draw project southeast of Nichols Ranch. The target was the 100 Sand, the same as the Nichols Ranch trend. On the Arkose Mining Venture properties a total of 269 holes were drilled during 2011. The numbers were as follows: East Buck project 86 holes, Kermit project 99 holes, Cedar Canyon project 23 holes, Sand Rock Project 13 holes, and at the Monument project 48 holes. Drilling targets were mainly in the 100 Sand at Kermit and in the 70 and 80 Sands at Monument. Trends of mineralization were found in both the Kermit and Monument project areas. A total of six miles of roll front mineral trends were drilled in 2011.
2010 Drilling Program
During 2010, on Arkose Mining Venture properties, a total of 311 holes were drilled. At Arkose’s South Doughstick extension Property a total of 52 holes were drilled with targets in the 100 sand. At the Arkose Kermit project area 57 exploration holes were drilled in the 100 sand with mineralization found in pod like structures.
Drilling was also conducted at the East Buck project area with 202 exploration holes drilled. Targets were in the 100 through the 130 sands.
2009 Drilling Program
During 2009, we were engaged in drilling exploration efforts on both our 100% owned Powder River Basin properties and on the Arkose Mining Venture Powder River Basin properties. During the 2009 drilling program, approximately 11.5 miles of uranium roll front trends were investigated.
On our 100% owned properties, 51 delineation holes were drilled on our Nichols Ranch, Doughstick and North Nichols Ranch properties. The purpose of this drilling was primarily to prepare for the installation of baseline monitor wells for our planned Nichols Ranch ISR production facility. Additional drilling was carried out on our 100% owned Doughstick properties.
During 2009, on Arkose Mining Venture properties, a total of 514 holes were drilled. At Arkose’s North Jane Property a total of 51 holes were drilled with mineralization found in two horizons of the 100 sand.
At Arkose’s South Doughstick property 104 delineation drill holes were completed.
2008 Exploration Program
In 2008, we were engaged in drilling exploration efforts on both our 100% owned Powder River Basin properties, and on the Arkose Mining Venture properties. During the 2008 drilling program, approximately 19 miles of uranium roll front trends were investigated. For the 2008 drilling season, March 6, 2008 through December 12, 2008, a total of 933 exploration and delineation holes were completed. The average depth per hole was 687 feet and a total of 640,578 feet was drilled. Breakout of the drilling was 165 holes on our 100% owned properties and 768 holes on Arkose Mining Venture properties.
During 2008 no new exploration work was undertaken in the immediate Nichols Ranch proposed mine area.
2006 and 2007 Exploration Programs
We drilled a total of 78 rotary drill holes on the Hank, Nichols Ranch, and Doughstick projects during 2006, with 46 holes demonstrating uranium mineralization.
During 2006, environmental permitting activities also continued at the Hank and Nichols Ranch projects with the completion of a total of five hydrogeologic test wells, and the drilling of six core holes. The core was submitted for laboratory testing to support radiation permitting requirements as well as to define resource disequilibrium attributes.
From February 19 to December 20, 2007, we drilled a total of 486 uranium trend delineation holes and eight hydrologic sampling wells on our 100% owned properties located in the central Powder River Basin, utilizing as many as three drill rigs and one electric log probing unit. This represents a total of approximately 300,000 feet of drilling with an average depth of 617 feet per hole.
A total of 214 delineation holes were drilled on Nichols Ranch in 2007. In the final months of the 2007 drilling program, we focused our exploration efforts on our West North-Butte, Collins Draw, Hank and Nichols Ranch properties to facilitate sub-surface geologic mapping with cross sections and to refine previous geologic models delineating known trends of uranium mineralization.
2014 Exploration Program
For 2014, at this time, we do not plan to conduct exploration drilling on our properties. All geologic personnel and staff will be concentrating on wellfield development at the Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project. Exploration drilling will resume at a later date.
Wellfield drilling plans include completing a small number of wells drilled in 2013 but not finished for Header House 1 to 4 and installation of all surface flow and utility lines to Header Houses 5 and 6. Drilling is planned to resume in the spring of 2014 with contract drilling rigs. The rigs will drill additional production wells for Production Area #1 and monitor wells for Production Area #2.
Approximately 492 wells are planned to be installed in Nichols Ranch Production Area #1; 252 injection wells and 240 recovery wells.
Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project
The current mine plan for the Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project includes a processing facility at our Nichols Ranch property and a second ion exchange facility at our Hank property. The processing facility is licensed for a capacity of two million pounds per year of uranium (as U3O8) and it is intended that it will process uranium-bearing wellfield solutions from Nichols Ranch. Uranium-loaded resin from both Nichols and Hank will be transported to Cameco’s plant to complete the processing. The project received its regulatory approvals in 2011 and construction is substantially complete.
Location of the Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project
The Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project, as presently licensed, is on the properties comprising our Nichols Ranch ISR main unit and our Hank ISR satellite unit, as illustrated below:
Uranerz Energy Corporation - Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project Map - December 2013
Targeted Mineralization
The targeted mineralized zones for the Nichols Ranch Unit in the A sand unit are 300 to 700 feet below the surface and occur in two long narrow trends meeting at the nose. The nose is in the northwest corner of the deposit where the two narrow trends meet to form the tip of the geochemical front. The Hank Unit’s two targeted mineralized zones in the F Sand unit range from 200 to 600 feet below the ground surface depending on the topography and changes in the formation elevation and stratigraphic horizon.
Mining Plan
In order to mine the uranium resources at the Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project, infrastructure including four Production Areas, a processing plant and a second ion exchange plant at the Hank Unit will need to be constructed. See “Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project” above. Wellfields are designated areas above the mineralized zone within the Production Areas that are sized to achieve the desired production goals. The piping/well system will inject water-leaching solution into the mineralized zone and recover the uranium-enriched water after it has flowed through the mineralization. The mineralized zone is the geological sandstone unit where the recovery solutions are injected and recovered in an in-situ recovery wellfield, and it is bounded between impermeable confining areas. Wellfield areas are the individual areas that will be mined within each Production Area. The injection and recovery wells are completed in the mineralized zones.
We anticipate the patterns for the injection and recovery wells to follow the conventional five-spot pattern. Depending on the mineralized zone shape, seven spot or line drive patterns may be used in some locations. A typical five spot pattern contains four injection wells and one recovery well. The dimensions of the pattern vary depending on the mineralized zone, but the injection wells will likely be between 50 to 120 feet apart. In order to effectively recover the uranium and also to complete the groundwater restoration, the wells will be completed so that they can be used as either injection or recovery wells. During mining operations, a slightly greater volume of water will be recovered from the mineralized zone aquifer than injected in order to create a cone of depression or a flow gradient towards the recovery wells.
The Nichols Ranch Unit is anticipated to include the Nichols Ranch processing plant and two Production Areas, Production Area #1 and Production Area #2. As the productivity or solution grade (uranium concentration in the recovered ground water) of some patterns for Production Area #1 decrease below the economic limit, replacement patterns from Production Area #2 will be placed into operation in order to maintain the desired flow rate and solution grade at the processing plant. Eventually, all the patterns in Production Area #1 will reach their economic limit and all production flow in that area will cease. At that time, all production flow will be coming from Production Area #2 and restoration activities will commence at Production Area #1.
Each planned Nichols Ranch Unit Production Area includes a number of injection wells, recovery wells, monitoring wells, header houses and associated piping and power supply. Header houses will be located within the Production Areas and will distribute recovered fluids from recovery wells to trunk lines, and injection fluids from the processing facility through the trunk lines to injection wells. The planned Nichols Ranch Unit (Production Areas #1 and #2) is anticipated to include the following:
534 injection wells;
403 recovery wells;
126 monitoring wells; and
15 header houses.
The planned Hank Unit includes a satellite ion exchange processing facility and two Production Areas, Production Area #1 and Production Area #2. The Hank Unit Production Areas will follow a similar construction, production, and restoration schedule as outlined above for the Nichols Ranch Unit Production Areas.
Each planned Hank Unit Production Area includes a number of injection wells, recovery wells, monitoring wells, header houses and associated piping and power supply. The planned Hank Unit is anticipated to include the following:
168 injection wells;
150 recovery wells;
53 monitoring wells; and
6 header houses.
Four Underground Injection Control (“UIC”) deep disposal wells are required; two at the Nichols Ranch Unit and two at the Hank Unit, for disposal of liquid wastes from wellfield bleed, processing plant operations and restoration. Two deep disposal wells have been installed and are ready for use at the Nichols Ranch Unit.
Mine Planning and Permitting
We are proceeding with completion of mine construction for the Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project. The primary regulatory approvals for an ISR uranium mine came from the WDEQ at the state level, and from the NRC at the federal level. The WDEQ issued a Permit to Mine, and the NRC issued a Source Material License. Both the state and federal agencies looked at all environmental aspects of a proposed ISR mine including reclamation of the land surface following mining operations, and restoration of impacted ground water. Work place safety and the safety of the public are also closely monitored by regulatory agencies. Posting of a reclamation bond by the mine operator with the regulatory agencies in an amount of $6.8 million to cover the total estimated cost of reclamation by a third party was also a requirement of the licenses. The reclamation bond was provided in 2011.
We have not completed any comprehensive feasibility studies on these properties demonstrating that mine construction on any of the properties is commercially warranted. Accordingly, we do not have “proven” or “probable” reserves as such terms are defined in Guide 7 nor do we expect to have such reserves when we commence operations. Proceeding with these advanced activities prior to completing detailed feasibility analysis adds risk to our plan of operations and we may incur costs which might not otherwise have been incurred.
Prior to the start of mining (the injection of lixiviant into the ore body aquifer), we must have obtained all the necessary permits, licenses, and approvals required by the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality - Land, Water and Air Divisions and the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The various state and federal permits and licenses that are needed and have been obtained for the Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project are summarized below:
Primary Permits and Licenses for the Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project
Notes: NRC - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
WDEQ-LQD - Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality Land Quality Division
WDEQ-WQD - Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality Water Quality Division
WDEQ-AQD - Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality Air Quality Division
WYPDES - Wyoming Pollution Discharge Elimination System
SEO - State Engineer's Office
2014 Plan of Operations for Powder River Basin Properties
During 2014, we plan to:
start mining operations at our Nichols Ranch Unit;
continue wellfield development at the Nichols Ranch ISR Uranium Project with the drilling of additional production wells for Production Area #1 and monitor wells for Production Area #2; and
continue with our permitting and mine planning efforts comprising environmental studies and engineering and design in connection with the application to mine Jane Dough.
All of our projects are at the exploration stage and there can be no assurance that a commercially viable mineral deposit, or reserve, exists on any of our properties until appropriate exploratory work is done and results are assessed. Further exploration will be required before a final evaluation as to the economic, technical and legal feasibility of mining of any of our exploration properties is determined. There is no assurance that further exploration will result in a final evaluation that a commercially viable mineral deposit exists on any of our mineral properties. We will require additional financing in order to pursue exploration, and if warranted, development of these projects. Because of the long lead times for environmental permitting of mining operations in North America, we have started to collect environmental baseline data and prepare the environmental permitting applications on a third property, Jane Dough, adjacent to the Nichols Ranch Unit, that has the potential, based on data in our possession, of being constructed into an ISR uranium mine. However, we have not at this stage completed any comprehensive feasibility study on this property demonstrating that it is commercially warranted. Proceeding with these advanced activities prior to completing detailed feasibility analysis adds risk to our plan of operations and we may incur costs which might not otherwise have been incurred.
2014 Property Expenditures
Our property related cash expenditures in 2014 (excludes operating costs/revenues and general and administrative expenses) are estimated to be $11 million. This estimate is subject to change. Major property acquisitions, if any, are in addition to the estimate set out above.
ITEM 3.