ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES.
Summary
Magnus is a mineral exploration company that specializes in identifying, acquiring and developing precious and base metal properties. Magnus’ objective is to develop a balanced global portfolio of early-to-advanced stage projects and is currently focused on gold projects in Uganda. The Company has a 100% interest in eight mineral properties in Uganda at Mubende, Lugazi, Mitoma, Mwerusandu, Rubindi, Kigumba, Kidera and Nyanga, a right to earn a 60% interest in a ninth property, Mashonga, and a right to earn an 80% interest in a tenth property, Ibanda.
Properties in Uganda
The following disclosure with respect to the Lugazi, Mubende, Mitoma and Mwerusandu Properties is
Geological Map of Uganda Identifying the Company’s Properties
based on a technical report dated May 15, 2007 (the “Uganda Technical Report 1”) prepared by Martin Taylor, an independent consulting geologist hired to complete Canadian NI-43101 compliant reports on behalf of Magnus . The following disclosure with respect to Mashonga is based on the report dated October 10, 2007 (the “Uganda Technical Report 2”) prepared by Martin Taylor. The report is filed at www.sedar.com.
Property Description and Location
The Lugazi, Mubende, Mitoma, Mwerusandu, Mashonga, Ibanda, Rubindi, Kigumba, Kidera and Nyanga Properties comprising approximately 6,661.21 sq. km. are located in central, southern and southwestern Uganda in East Africa. The properties are covered by valid exploration licenses, 30 in total, and valid location licences, 3 in total.
Lugazi Property
The Lugazi Property is located some 50 km east of the capital Kampala in the Mukono district of southern Uganda, and is approximately centred at Latitude 0° 18’N and Longitude 32° 52’E. The Property consists of five exploration licenses covering an area of approximately 1,487.69 sq. km.
Mubende Property
The Mubende Property is located some 100 km west-northwest of the capital Kampala in the Mubende and Kiboga administrative districts of south-central Uganda. The Property is approximately centred at Latitude 0° 34’N and Longitude 31° 46’E, and consists of three exploration licenses covering approximately 851.20 sq. km.
Mitoma Property
The Mitoma Property is located some 320 km southwest of the capital Kampala in the Bushenyi district of south-western Uganda. The Property is approximately centred at Latitude 0° 35’S and Longitude 30° 05’E. The property consists of seven exploration licenses covering an area of 359.49 sq. km.
Mwerusandu Property
The Mwerusandu Property is located some 380 km southwest of the capital Kampala in the Ntungamo district of south-western Uganda. The Property is approximately centred at Latitude 1° 00’S and Longitude 30° 10’E. The property consists of four exploration licenses covering an area of 175.43 sq. km.
Mashonga Property
The Mashonga Property is located some 400 km southwest of the capital Kampala in the Bushenyi district of south-western Uganda. The Property is approximately centred at Latitude 0° 23’S and Longitude 30° 09’E. The property consists of two exploration licenses and three location licences covering an area of 460.87 sq. km.
Ibanda Property
The Ibanda Property is located some 300 km southwest of the capital Kampala in the Bushenyi district of south-western Uganda. The Property is approximately centred at Latitude 0° 08’S and Longitude 30° 32’E. The property consists of one exploration license covering an area of 332.70 sq. km.
Rubindi Property
The Rubindi Property is located some 300 km southwest of the capital Kampala in the Bushenyi and Mbarara districts of south-western Uganda. The Property is approximately centred at Latitude 0° 20’S and Longitude 30° 32’E. The property consists of two exploration licenses covering an area of 720.00 sq. km.
Kigumba Property
The Kigumba Property is located some 200 km north-northwest of the capital Kampala in the Masindi district of western Uganda. The Property is approximately centred at Latitude 1° 53’N and Longitude 31° 50’E. The property consists of four exploration licenses covering an area of 1,765.55 sq. km.
Kidera Property
The Kidera Property is located some 120 km north of the capital Kampala in the Kamuli and Kayunga districts of central Uganda. The Property is approximately centred at Latitude 1° 20’N and Longitude 32° 53’E. The property consists of one exploration license covering an area of 485.00 sq. km.
Nyanga Property
The Nyanga Property is located some 380 km southwest of the capital Kampala in the Ntungamo district of south-western Uganda. The Property is approximately centred at Latitude 0° 57’S and Longitude 30° 11’E. The property consists of one exploration license covering an area of 23.28 sq. km.
Regional Geology
The Archaean Ugandan Craton is part of the African Plate, a large area of continental crust consisting of the accretion of small cratons (e.g. Uganda, Tanzania) welded together by Proterozoic mobile belts. Much of northern and central Uganda is underlain by Archaean basement gneisses. The southwest part of the country, including the exploration licenses of Magnus, is largely underlain by Proterozoic sediments, minor volcanics and intrusive granites. Major rift faulting commenced in the Tertiary and continued to the present. Tertiary volcanism of mafic to intermediate composition and minor carbonatites also occurred. This includes the formation of large shield volcanoes, the most prominent in Uganda being Mt. Elgon on the Kenyan border. Great thicknesses of Tertiary to Recent sediments fill the fault valleys, especially along the Western, or Albertine, Rift in western Uganda.
Precambrian rocks underlie two-thirds of Uganda. Archaean rocks are exposed in the southeast where they are part of the extensive granite-greenstone terrane of the Tanzanian Craton. Three major Proterozoic belts underlie central and west Uganda: the Paleoproterozoic Buganda-Toro metasediments, the Mesoproterozoic Karagwe-Ankolean (Kibaran) Belt in the southwest of the country and Neoproterozoic Pan-African rocks. The Neoproterozoic includes the Bunyoro Series with tillites and argillites, and the undeformed shallow water sediments of the Bukoban Supergroup. Tertiary to Recent sediments have filled parts of the down-faulted Western Rift. Tertiary carbonatites and Cenozoic volcanics are related to rift activities and occur along the eastern and western borders of the country.
The Mashonga region is largely underlain by Igara Group quartz-muscovite schists, quartzites and phyllites of the PalaeoProterozoic Buganda-Toro System. Younger granitic intrusions occur and there is evidence of mafic-ultramafic igneous intrusive bodies (gabbroic or diorite). North of the Mashonga Mine the Igara rocks are covered unconformably by Buhweju Group quartzites and conglomerates of the MesoProterozoic Karagwe-Ankolean System. North-south trending fold axes from isoclinal folded sequences are reported as well as N-S and E-W trending structures. The drainages in the mine area trend southeast, suggesting there is a regional structure parallel to this.
The Buganda-Toro and Karagwe-Ankolean systems have been extensively folded into tight synclines and anticlines, with upright axial planes and, in the southern and central Mashonga area, the former has been intruded by synorogenic porphyritic gneissic adamellites to post-orogenic biotite-bearing alkaline granites and leucocratic, sub-alkaline, per-aluminous granites (“tin granites”). Historical economic Sn, tungsten (“W”), beryllium (“Be”), niobium (“Nb”)/tantalum (“Ta”) deposits occur in similar rocks to the south of the Mashonga Property, hosted within the metasediments on the periphery of the granites. The presence of abundant quartz veining, several gold occurrences and the Sn-W-Be-Ta mineralization in this environment support the typical hydrothermal and epithermal activity of the Intrusive-Related Gold model driving the exploration.
Informal gold production from the Mashonga Mine is reported to come from an east-west trending sheared quartz-vein zone. The mineralized shear appears to be hosted by quartz-muscovite schist, at the contact between the schist and granitic rock. The wallrock of the mine pit, much of which is now filled by slumped material, is comprised of schist and kaolinitized granite with pegmatitic veins and quartz stockwork veining.
Mineralization
Lugazi Property
The style of gold mineralization at the Lugazi area is associated with a belt of sedimentary rocks comprising the Paleoproterozoic Buganda-Toro system, and surrounding granite gneisses. A thermal aureole granite (“TAG”) model is being used in an attempt to understand the mineralization where an Intrusion Related Gold system is expected along with skarn and pegmatite host rocks.
Mubende Property
The style of gold mineralization at the Mubende area is interpreted by the Company as being associated with the roof zones of large batholiths such as the Singo Granite. Greisen alteration has been identified by reconnaissance
exploration and an Intrusion Related Gold (“IRG”) system is being modeled, with gold mineralization in disseminated and quartz stockwork styles in the upper roof zones of granites, or in large scale fault zones along the flanks of the intrusions. Tungsten and gold occurrences have been identified on the Singo granites and in surrounding meta-sediments.
Mitoma Property
The Mitoma area is characterized by the presence of historically economic tin, tungsten, beryllium and niobium-tantalum deposits hosted within the Mesoproterozoic metasediments located on the periphery of Proterozoic circular porphyritic granite intrusives. A TAG model is being used by the Company as a guide to the mineralization where an Intrusion Related Gold system is expected along with skarn and pegmatite host rocks. Disseminated sulphides have been observed in some quartzite and schistose lithologies on the property, supported by the numerous gold, tin, tantalum workings with alluvial gold panning has taken place on the license in the past.
Mwerusandu Property
The style of gold mineralization at the Mwerusandu area is associated with sedimentary rocks located in antiforms within the Karagwe-Ankolean system and in conjugate fracture sets in quartzites close to the contact with large granite batholiths termed arena granites. Disseminated sulphides have been observed in some quartzite and schistose lithologies on the property, supported by the numerous past gold, tin, tantalum and tungsten alluvial workings within the property. A light green, arsenic rich alteration phase identified as scorodite is also associated with gold mineralization at the Nyamulindira license. A TAG model is being used in an attempt to understand the mineralization where an Intrusion Related Gold system is expected along with skarn and pegmatite host rocks.
Mashonga Property
The style of gold mineralization at the Mashonga area is associated with shear zones hosted by early-Proterozoic schists which are adjacent to late tin-bearing granite intrusions. An unconformity related gold system is used to model the style of mineralisation, with the younger, mid-Proterozoic Karagwe-Ankolean system forming an unconformable relationaship with the older Buganda Toro system. In the basement schists and granites, a TAG model is being used in an attempt to understand the mineralization where an Intrusion Related Gold system is expected along with skarn and pegmatite host rocks.
Artisanal gold production from the Mashonga Mine is reported to come from an east-west trending sheared-quartz vein zone, tentatively interpreted by Magnus to be a splay off a northwest-trending regional structure. The mineralized shear appears to be hosted by quartz-muscovite schist, or at the contact between the schist and granitic rock. Parts of the open cast wallrock are kaolinitized granite with pegmatitic veins and a quartz stockwork.
The presence of anomalous platinum group elements (“PGE”) values in rock samples from the mine area and possibly anomalous Terra Leach soils from further east suggest the gold mineralization in the Buganda-Toro sediments may have a significant PGE association.
In the Mashonga area the Company believes there is an IRG style of mineralization. This model takes into account both large veins which occur on the margins of granite bodies as well as granite hosted sheeted, stockwork or pegmatitic veins. In the larger veins such as mined at Mashonga, high gold grades can be expected. An economic deposit, however, is more likely to be a lower grade, granite hosted system which calls for alternative exploration techniques (multi-element geochemistry, IP to detect zones of silicification, magnetic halo anomalies, recognition of metal/element assemblages and unique features such as unidirectional solidification textures, greisens and pegmatites.
Ibanda Property
The style of gold mineralization at the Ibanda area is similar to Mashonga, and is also associated with shear zones hosted by early-Proterozoic schists which are adjacent to late tin-bearing granite intrusions. An unconformity related gold system is used to model the style of mineralisation, with the younger, mid-Proterozoic karagwe Ankolean system forming an unconformable relationaship with the older Buganda Toro system. In the basement schists and granites, a TAG model is being used in an attempt to understand the mineralization where an Intrusion Related Gold system is expected along with skarn and pegmatite host rocks.
Rubindi Property
The style of gold mineralization at the Rubindi area is similar to Mashonga, and is also associated with shear zones hosted by early-Proterozoic schists which are adjacent to late tin-bearing granite intrusions. An unconformity related gold system is used to model the style of mineralisation, with the younger, mid-Proterozoic karagwe Ankolean system forming an unconformable relationaship with the older Buganda Toro system. In the basement schists and granites, a TAG model is being used in an attempt to understand the mineralization where an Intrusion Related Gold system is expected along with skarn and pegmatite host rocks.
Kigumba Property
The style of mineralization at the Kigumba area is expected to be related to a large 22km long by up to 4km wide radiometrics anomaly, which was identified from the airborne geophysical survey covering 80% of the country. The uranium response is particularly strong, so the area will be tested initially for uranium potential associated with the sheared limb of a folded sequence.
Kidera Property
The style of mineralization at the Kidera area is expected to be related to a large 7km by 5km circular radiometrics anomaly, which was identified from the airborne geophysical survey covering 80% of the country. This radiometrics anomaly has a similarity in size to the carbonatite complexes such as Tororo and Sukulu Hills, located in the southeastern part of Uganda. The large anomaly will be examined for vermiculite, phosphate and rare earth metals, commonly associated with carbonatite rocks. In addition, a field of distinct magnetic bulls eyes, will be tested for diamond potential, as they resemble kimberlite pipes.
Nyanga Property
The style of mineralization at the Nyanga area is tantalum which is associated with large pegmatite bodies which are hosted by metasedimentary rocks of Karagwe-Ankolean age. Mining operations at three locations at Nyanga occurred during the 1930 - 1960’s producing a total of 130,000t tantalum. These operations were suspended in 1960. The Nyanga deposit is hosted by a pegmatite body measuring 370m and with a width of approximately 54m.
Exploration
Lugazi Property
A detailed soil sampling program during the period 2006 and 2007, comprising over 1500 soil samples has delineated a strong 300 - 700m wide gold-in-soil anomaly over a length of 3.5 km. The anomaly is offset to the east, and there are indications that the anomaly is open ended in this direction. A fixed wing, high resolution airborne magnetic and radiometric survey was flown on the Lugazi licence and covered 574.5 sq km at 200m line spacing. The results from the survey show a close correlation between the gold-in-soil anomaly and magnetic rich stratigraphic horizons as well as elevated potassic levels.
A Reverse Circulation (RC) drill program comprising a total of 31 holes for 2,037m was completed in February 2008, along three lines at the Kiyola, Nantula and Katente targets. The RC holes were drilled at about 50m intervals
along a fence across the soil anomaly, and were designed to investigate the nature of the weathered profile to an average depth of some 65m. As no previous gold mineralisation has been reported from this belt the Company thought it would be important to understand the source of the anomalous gold in soils and attempt to identify possible structures that could be followed up during subsequent phases of exploration. This drilling is the culmination of early stage exploration at Lugazi which commenced in May 2006.
The most significant RC drill results include:
§
4m at 0.98 g/t gold from 18m in LUG006 at the Kiyola target (incl. 2m at 1.3g/t)
§
2m at 0.50 g/t gold from 64m in LUG007 at the Kiyola target
§
2m at 1.50 g/t gold from 2m in LUG017 at the Nantula target
§
2m at 1.20 g/t gold from 9m in LUG028 at the Katente target
The Company also conducted a regional geochemical program which included the collection of 1,356 soil samples along lines spaced at approximately 4km intervals. These samples tested the gold and nickel potential of the Lugazi belt. The program uncovered a gold anomaly on another portion of the Lugazi belt, towards the east of the drill target.
Mubende Property
A regional alteration and structural interpretation over Mubende has been completed. This information together with the historical airborne geophysical data indicates that the eastern end of the Singo batholith could be prospective for granite related gold systems. A follow-up soil geochemical program was completed, which targeted the northern and southern boundaries of the granite batholith. In total 996 soil samples were collected along lines on elevated topography to avoid the wide swampy drainages in this region. The samples were sieved to -80 mesh fraction and analyzed for gold by means of aqua regia and AAS finish. Prior to these soil samples, a program of low level terra leach soil sampling was completed over the southwestern portions of the licence. A total of 554 terra leach samples were collected. The results of the soil sampling have not delineated any clear targets to follow up.
Mitoma Property
To date 2,546 soil samples have been collected over different areas of the property in seven phases. The samples were analyzed with the Terra Leach partial digest method and have delineated gold-in-soil anomalies at the Kahungye (EL 0023), Rugoma (EL 0025) and Rutaka (EL 0024) exploration licenses. The assay results were received from soil samples analysed by Agua Regia together with Pits at Kayhunge. The results from agua regia confirm anomalous gold within the surface profile with levels between 20-30 ppb gold with one value of 50 ppb. The results of pitting confirm low level gold (0.14 g/t) in the uppermost 30 cm in Pit 2. The gold tenors in the bedrock schist vary between 0.02 g/t and 0.05 g/t. The surface soil values in the 20-30 ppb range therefore appear to be reflecting values in schist of 0.02-0.05 g/t Au. i.e. the magnitude of the soil anomaly corresponds with values occurring in bedrock.
Exploration at the southern licences, called Kabira (EL 0005, 0117, 0187, 0188), included the collection of 957 soil samples, which were analysed for low level gold by means of terra leach method. The results show very low levels of gold associated with the metasediments of the Karagwe-Ankolean system. The main anomalous area is located in the south-eastern portion of EL0005 where gold shows a clear correlation with copper.
Mwerusandu Property
Exploration activity at the Mwerusandu Property has included: soil sampling over the Nyamulindira and Kiana Mine licences and drill preparation for a planned RC drill program. A total of 1,016 terra leach soil samples have been
collected, mostly in the northern part of the area, which has defined a clear gold in soil anomaly hosted by quartzites and schist’s of the mid-Proterozoic Karagwe-Ankolean system, parallel to the contact with a granitoid body, referred to as ‘arena’ granites. The northern part of the soil anomaly is 200m in length and covers a silica-scorodite altered rock outcrop, while further to the south, a 1km long anomaly is situated in a similar stratigraphic setting close to the granite contact. The main target at Nyamulindira remains a scorodite rich quartzite with 4-6 g/t of gold in rock grab samples and a trench intersection of 20.4 g/t of gold over 3.5m. The eastern Mwerusandu licenses are located in a tin - beryllium rich belt and close to the historical Mwerusandu tin mine which was mined up to the 1950’s.
Mashonga Property
The Mashonga Project is located in the Buhweju region of south-western Uganda. The majority of gold produced in Uganda has been from alluvial deposits around the Buhweju plateau, recovered by artisanal miners. Gold was first reported in this area in 1933 and since then an estimated 200,000 oz have been produced from alluvial sources. Gold from primary ‘lode’ sources has been produced locally from small open-cut slot and shallow underground operations such as the Mashonga mine.
Towards the end of 2007, Magnus uncovered historical exploration reports from Mashonga during the late 1990’s by Uganda Gold Mines Ltd. The reports include high grade sample results from underground sampling of a shear zone at the Mashonga mine, with 25.5 oz per short ton gold (874 g/t) and 309 g/t silver from a grab sample of a lens a few feet wide. Another grab sample of the footwall to the shear zone returned 276 g/t gold and 9.7 g/t silver.
Uganda Gold also sampled a series of trenches located 1.5km east of the Mashonga mine area. These trenches covered a strike length of 350m and report gold intersections which include 4.6m at 24.7 g/t and 2.4m at 59.6 g/t. In addition, a rock grab sample from one trench reported 228 g/t gold. A further target was identified by Uganda Gold, located about 1km southeast of the mine. A single rock grab sample returned 183 g/t gold and 200 g/t silver.
As part of Magnus’ due diligence evaluation of the property in 2006 and 2007, rock grab samples were collected from the mine dump at the open-cut slot mine. Of the eight mafic schist samples collected from the surface mine dump, four returned very high grade gold and PGE assay results, which include 58.8g/t gold, 4.15g/t platinum and 3.68g/t palladium.
An RC Drill program commenced in July 2008, and a total of 667m has been completed at the Mashonga mine in 7 holes. This drilling tested the high grade polymetallic mineralisation in east-west conjugate shears below the mine. Intended further drilling is designed to test the 3km by 500m wide soil anomaly located 1km east of the mine. The geology profile mapped from the hole intersections comprises a series of sericite, quartz-biotite and mafic schists with granite pegmatite bodies and quartz veining. Sulphides in the form of pyrite were recorded in all six holes drilled. Results from this drilling are still pending due to the delay in getting screen fire assays perfomed of coarser sample size.
As part of a program to discover additional targets with similarities to the Mashonga mine, a total of 803 soil samples have been collected along regional lines and detailed grids. Of these, some 113 aqua regia sample results have been received and indicate anomalous values at one of the targets identified by Uganda Gold Ltd. A further 690 samples are yet to be analyzed.
The area covering approximately 3km x 3 km around the Mashonga mine was mapped in detail, with 67 rock samples sent for PIMA analysis. PIMA measures the white mica spectra and enables the sericite content of the rocks to be measured and provides an indication of the levels or alteration in the system. The results of the PIMA show a clear and distinct zonation from an acid domain to an alkaline domain. It is at this transition zone where gold will precipitate, and structures which transect this zone will be targeted.
Ibanda Property
The Ibanda Property is located in the eastern part of the Buhweju region of south-western Uganda. Exploration at this property has focussed on the collection of 685 soil samples to verify a zone of historical work that highlighted anomalous gold in soils. These anomalies are located at the intersection of a major north-south structure and east-west faults. The results are at a preliminary stage and will be modelled and interpreted.
Rubindi, Kiguma, Kidera and Nyanga Properties
These licenses were only acquired during the last quarter, and to date little exploration activity has been completed. Some reconnaissance visits were conducted in August and September of 2008 to assess the most optimum methods of exploration.
Future Plans
The main expected source of capital for the year 2008-9 is the collection of monies owed to Magnus by the purchaser of the Long Teng Mining (holder of the Huidong project) in China. The buyer of Huidong intends to pay us the remaining RMB 14 million that they owe us once they have the funds available from another divestiture of their own that they have in progress. Per that contract it shows that they are due to be paid RMB 15 million in installments by the 22nd January 2009. Magnus expects to be paid the first RMB 1 million of the RMB 14 million that remains outstanding in November 2008.
As of 12 November 2008, the remaining payments for the sale of Long Teng are delinquent and the Company has provided an allowance for the uncollectibility of those payments due from the sale of Long Teng.
Magnus was sent RMB 7 million as the first payment in late May 2008. RMB 4.5 million of these monies were sent from the purchaser’s bank account to the bank account of an intermediary. Of these monies, we have so far received US $466,000 and we are owed approximately US $200,000 - the balance of the RMB 7 million. The Company intends to pursue this matter vigorously.
While market conditions are not currently very favorable for raising equity capital for exploration companies, we anticipate that we could raise some equity capital for Magnus over the course of the next year, especially if there was a re-structuring of the Company’s capital structure.
Also, if Magnus manages to obtain an OTC-BB listing and possibly an additional listing in Canada then it is anticipated that the equity raising process could be easier.
During fiscal year 2008, Magnus raised more than US $1 million in equity financing and more than US $1 million from the first payment for the sale of Long Teng. During fiscal year 2007, Magnus raised US $2,756,377 in equity financing. In fiscal year 2006, Magnus raised US $6,673,919. We have raised more than $15 million in equity financing to date for Magnus and management believes that the Company should be able to continue to raise equity capital in over the course of this fiscal year and beyond, especially if the capital structure is reduced.
Magnus is currently seeking to divest some of its Uganda projects or reduce some of its obligations to joint ventures by either bringing in other partners, and/or selling in whole or in part its interests in such projects. The Company is in the process of evaluating what the options are in this respect. It is the Company’s intention to attempt to re-negotiate the Mashonga and Ibanda agreements to reduce the financial obligations relating to each one. If this cannot be accomplished and the Company cannot find third parties to reduce some of its obligations then the Company may relinquish its interests in these joint ventures.
Magnus’ costs have been decreased significantly and the Company intends to make other significant cost-cuts.
As of 31 October 2008, Magnus has eliminated its Vancouver office and reduced its Vancouver staffing to two. It is our intention to keep them full-time until the 31 December 2008, after which it is anticipated that they would move to a consulting basis. Associated office overheads and staffing have therefore been significantly reduced.
The Company is also in the process of finding a smaller office in Uganda and the staff has been reduced to one administrator/accountant and one housekeeper. Former full-time staff can be used on a consulting basis when needed.
Our office lease in China expires on the 31 March 2009 and after it expires we will no longer have a China office. It is anticipated that one or two staff members will remain on the payroll in China until we are fully paid for the sale of Long Teng. It is expected that Magnus will collect all monies due to the Company prior to the end of March 2008 and that the China office will be closed prior to the end of the office lease.
We intend to reduce the total budget for Magnus for the year down to about US $600,000 of costs (that are not currently loans or payables) for the coming year. Thus costs will be reduced by a very significant amount allowing for us to advance some of our projects in Uganda.
Contingent on available funding, the Company intends to evaluate its Ugandan exploration portfolio and determine which projects it can reasonably maintain where it can conduct cost-effective further exploration.
Leased Office Space
The Company currently leases two administrative offices: in Kunming, China, and in Entebbe, Uganda. These leased properties are described in the table below:
ITEM 3.